University is the time for experimentation. As you cross the rubicon of your student hall, your body twinges with the possibility of reinvention. You are able to create a whole new you, a you that is open to new experiences, opinions and philosophies. But the reality is a blink-and-you’ll-miss-it journey into fad-dom. It’s a time when you will try veganism, brew your own beer and experiment endlessly with your personal fashion style. As Channel 4’s student hit Fresh Meat nears its end, we asked some of our writers to take us back to their -undergraduate look.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jess Carter-Morley and her sister in Thailand.Jess Cartner-Morley OK, so I’m not actually studying in this picture, I’m on a beach in Thailand. But, to be honest, even when I was in the library, I pretty much dressed as if I were on a beach in Thailand. (This was, after all, the mid-90s, the era that brought you Alex Garland’s The Beach.) Note my hair, which still seems to be channelling the Charlatans; my sister Alice’s Baby-G watch; and the fact that she is wearing high-heeled clogs on the beach, like a boss. But, above all, check my low-slung jeans, proudly worn with a non-flat tummy in a way that makes me hugely nostalgic for the less body-fascist world of my youth. When I look at photos from student nights out, I am struck by how androgynous we all look, in our vests and baggy trousers. Those were the innocent days of the idealistic, unisex raving crew. Don’t worry, I’m not going to get nostalgic: I am pretty grossed out by the memories of sharing sweaty water bottles, to be honest. I don’t think any photos exist of me in the library or writing an essay – not that it never happened, but because, in those pre-smartphone days, those occasions just didn’t get photographed. Anyway, I don’t think we’re missing much: from memory, my “look” could be summed up as “bit hungover; needs to keep warm in draughty rooms”.  John Crace, skateboard hero.John Crace Jeans, T-shirt, sweater. Almost certainly the same ones every day for a week or so. Clothes weren’t that big a deal in 1976. Or, rather, not appearing to take much interest in what you were wearing was the big deal. The same was as true for the women I knew as it was for the men; the psychedelic and glam-rock looks were dead in the water and punk had yet to become mainstream. The look was grunge before anyone had bothered to come up with the word. I can tell you exactly where the sweater came from: Marks & Spencer. My mum still bought all my sweaters and she never shopped anywhere else. I merely considered it my duty to customise them by stretching them and pockmarking them with fag burns after I lapsed into deep sleep. As for the jeans, I’m struggling a bit. I would guess they are a pair of Levi’s bought from somewhere on the Kings Road: they look as if they might even be flares, but we’ll be kind and overlook that. The hair has long gone and I have got a bit chubbier, but, as for the rest, I have barely moved on. Come the weekend, you’ll still find me in jeans, T-shirt and a sweater. Hopefully – though not always – clean. Call it arrested development.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chitra Ramaswamy (middle) as a student.Chitra Ramaswamy It was a golden year, 1997: well, for this silliest of students anyway. From my home city of London to the party (sorry, student) city of Glasgow, the transition was from south to north, house music to hip-hop, Mixmag to Zora Neale Hurston (bloody Eng Lit students), kitten heels to Nike Air Max, and full-length, see-through, tangerine Kookai dresses (I know, and with suspenders! And a feather boa! And a Marlboro Light that never seemed to go out!) to Carhartt cargo pants, a bodywarmer, and a packet of Golden Virginia in my back pocket. It took me about five years to wise up to the Scottish weather and get a jumper. They were democratic times. Basically, all it took to make me feel fabulous was a maroon body (which looked like a baby vest but was, in fact, a short-track to feeling like Elle “The Body” Macpherson – on the inside anyway) and a Wonderbra (balconette, always). My gods were Lauryn Hill, All Saints, the Sub Club and, above all, GHD hair straighteners. The look was utter confusion welded to an iron chutzpah, which perfectly sums up the student condition. I kept my collection of skintight electric-blue satin shirts, though. And the Wonderbra. This girl knew her roots and they were pure Brixton Fridge-era gay.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lauren Cochrane (left) out on the tiles.Lauren Cochrane When I was at university, I went out a LOT, almost every night. The studying felt like a daytime inconvenience rather than the best years of my life. My clothes reflected my nighttime exploits – and the slightly gone-to-seed vintage look of the late-90s. I wanted the Prada geek chic collection but, due to the reality-bites student budget, I had to make do with what I found in charity shops, topped up with the occasional Topshop splurge. I had a thing for anything shiny, and shared clothes with my friends. There was a PVC shift dress and a teeny-weeny, salmon-pink skirt that we all used to fight over, and a Hawaiian shirt. The sharing has stopped, and I think that pink skirt may now be a little short, but I would still wear almost all of the clothes I wore then. See the jacket I have on in this picture? While it is long gone, I bought another one exactly like it in Oxfam just the other day. Years have gone by, but my magpie tendencies and love of a rummage remain.  Simon Hattenstone (left) as a student with Ned.Simon Hattenstone Until four months ago, I had seen no photos of myself from student days. Maybe I had a downer on me. It was the early 80s, and I suppose I was punky/newromanticy/notquiteanythingy. Late last year, my great friend David “Ned” Keepe died. Ned and I had sat next to each other in English through school (Kersal High), sixth-form college (Eccles) and university (Leeds). I think we were the only two kids from Kersal to go to uni that year.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Simon with pint in hand, second from right.At Ned’s funeral, another old friend, Julie, brought out some Polaroid snaps of us. It was a weird throwback to a me I had never seen – but not so different from the grey me today. My hair isn’t short and spiky and jet black, as it was for much of my time at uni (after an attempt to dye it electric blue went disastrously wrong – halfway through, the barber said he had run out of the blue so he had done me a purple), and I don’t seem to have an earring in (my favourite was an arrow that came out at a 90-degree angle). But it’s still me. Julie showed me a few photos, and they were all pretty much Identikit – pint in hand, fag in mouth, surrounded by other people with pints in hands and fags in mouths – T-shirt, black jacket, turned-up jeans, DMs, crooked snarl-smile. Plus ça change.Fresh Meat is on Channel 4 at 10pm on Monday