Born in London, Terry O’Neill, 78, began his career as an airline photographer. His 1959 shot of home secretary Rab Butler asleep at Heathrow led to a job at the Daily Sketch, and soon he was photographing the Beatles. His portraits hang in galleries and private collections worldwide. He has a son with Faye Dunaway, and is now married to Laraine Ashton. A limited edition of his photographs taken on the set of Get Carter is available through Sonic Editions.When were you happiest?I’ve been happy all my life.What is your greatest fear?Dying in a plane crash.What is your earliest memory?Falling off a breakwater and nearly drowning, when I was three.Which living person do you most admire, and why?Eden Hazard, a true sportsman.What is the trait you most deplore in yourself?Fear.What is the trait you most deplore in others?Using drugs. I’ve seen drug abuse destroy too many lives.What was your most embarrassing moment?When I photographed Peter Sellers and Britt Ekland’s wedding, I forgot to load the film.Property aside, what’s the most expensive thing you’ve bought? A Rolex; I’m not a big spender.What is your most treasured possession?My trusty little Leica camera.What would your super power be?The ability to take a picture without a camera.If you could bring something extinct back to life, what would you choose?Zoot Sims, the greatest tenor saxophone player ever.What makes you unhappy?The news: war, death, murder.Who would play you in the film of your life?Michael Caine.What did you want to be when you were growing up?A jazz drummer.What is the worst thing anyone’s said to you?In 1964, I left a job at a newspaper, because they were sending me on too many assignments covering the aftermath of tragedies. The editor told me: “The moment you walk out, you’re finished. This paper made you and without us you are nothing.”What is your guiltiest pleasure?Fish and chips. I have it three times a week.What or who is the greatest love of your life?Laraine, my wife.Who would you invite to your dream dinner party?Zoot Sims, Nelson Mandela, Audrey Hepburn, Eric Clapton and Michael Caine.John Simpson: ‘Most embarrassing moment? Revealing my bright blue underpants in front of the Queen’ Which words or phrases do you most overuse?“You’re kidding.”What has been your biggest disappointment?Not photographing Marilyn Monroe.What is the most important lesson life has taught you?Never make your move too soon.When did you last cry, and why?I cry about 10 times a week. I’m a real softy.What is the closest you’ve come to death?I was invited to Sharon Tate’s house the night she was murdered. I declined the invite due to jetlag.What song would you like played at your funeral?Please Don’t Talk About Me When I’m Gone.