It is one of those better-to-be-dead-than-alive days you get in the north of England in February. In the corner of a cemetery is a man. He is Simon Strulovitch, a rich, furious philanthropist with a passion for art and Shakespeare, who has come to pay respects to his mother’s remains. In another corner, Shylock is talking to his long dead wife, Leah. To some that might seem strange, were it not also certain that he too was long since dead, were he not – closest to his heart – primarily a pound of fleshly metaphor.Villain or victim, Shakespeare’s Shylock is a character to celebrate To go back a bit. Strulovitch has twice been married. The first time to Ophelia-Jane. His father had disowned him for not marrying a Jew, but the failure of the marriage had been more prosaic than Old Testamental. Quite simply, he and Ophelia-Jane had been quite incompatible, he having been brought up in the Merchant of Venice and she in Hamlet. He had since remarried – a Jew this time – and together they had had a daughter, Beatrice. She had been trouble from the start, very far from the Much Ado About Nothing that he had hoped. And then his wife had had a stroke that rendered her barely conscious. Shit happens. Exeunt.In another part of the Golden Triangle of Alderley Edge lived Anna Livia Plurabelle Cleopatra A Thing Of Beauty Is A Joy Forever Christine, an heiress so air-headed that she was unaware of the Shakespearean Keatsian playfulness of her name. This caused her no distress (nor any to her creator Howard, who had enjoyed himself immensely dispensing literary references throughout the text, many of which would go over the heads of everyone but the acclaimed Shakespearean scholar, Jim Shapiro) as she was pursuing her own TV career, under the watchful guidance of her adopted mentor D’Anton.Now Plury was in need of a suitor, but not one more interested in her wealth than her Botox, and D’Anton knew just the man. On arriving to collect her Porsche from the garage, Plury discovered the mechanic attending to a VW. Annoyed, yet delighted, Plury fell in love on the spot and she and Barney went back to her house to live almost happily ever after. D’Anton enjoyed their happiness. Plury did not need to know he had advised Barney to ignore the Porsche. Exeunt.Having set up a plot with far too many subplots – a fault to which the bard himself was prone – Howard returned the action to Strulovitch and Shylock. Or rather the inaction, for much of their conversation took the form of soliloquies in which internal dilemmas were explored. Even centuries later, Shylock was still angry that his daughter, Jessica, had run off with first a monkey and then the gentile, Antonio. ‘Tis a Jew’s lot, he said to himself. Repeatedly. Strulovitch was angry about the present. How dare his 16-year-old daughter Beatrice elope with Gratan, a footballer for non-league Stockport County? What form of retribution should he take? Or was retribution merely a Jewish trope?“Can you help me, Shylock?’ he enquired.“It is the lot of Jews to wonder thus. No one would hold a gentile to account,” Shylock replied with an insight, laden with age and angst. Exeunt.Coincidence is not uncommon in such texts, for what are men and women if not players? So it was that Plury and Beatrice happened to be best friends, and it was to Plury’s house that Gratan and Beatrice had repaired. But we get ahead of ourselves a little here, because there is also a further subplot in which Barney wants to buy Plury a painting – a work of Jewish art no less – yet arrives too late at the auction and the painting is sold to Strulovitch. Exeunt.Shylock Is My Name review – Howard Jacobson takes on Shakespeare’s Venetian moneylender Now guilt is not confined to Jews, though tis true that Jews do have first claim on it. Even so, D’Anton felt guilty both that Beatrice and Gratan were by now in Venice, and that Barney had been unable to acquire the painting. By way of amends, he wrote to Strulovitch. “Dear Strulovitch, If your daughter is not returned to you by the morrow, you may circumcise me. Yours D’Anton. PS can I have the painting?” Exit.“If you prick us, do we not bleed?” cried Strulovitch, for he was bound to say as much some time in the book. “What shall I do, Shylock?” Shylock shrugged a meta shrug. Would he have extracted his pound of flesh? Would Abraham have killed Isaac? Why was it so that such dilemmas were only faced by Jews? Exeunt.There was still no sign of Beatrice by the appointed hour, so it was that D’Anton arrived at Strulovitch’s house to expose himself. One prick that would truly bleed. Except it wouldn’t. “Thou art circumcised!” sobbed Strulovitch. “Why do Jews never find resolution in their angst?” He went next door to find Beatrice listening to Midsummer Night’s D:Ream. “Things can only get meta,” they sang.“I got bored of Gratan,” she said. “That’s nice,” said Strulovitch, doubting his very Jewishness at the neatness of the conclusion. Finis.Digested read, digested: No shit, Shylock