Mondo Mondo, a wide-ranging repertory series of films running at New York’s Anthology Film Archives from 22-31 July, serves up a platter of grotesque, chewy and challenging work that one would be hard-pressed to label as “entertainment” in any conventional sense.Programmed by critic Nick Pinkerton, the series is named after a genre, the mondo film (from the Italian word for “world”), which comprised globetrotting exploitation fare crafted in pseudo-documentary style, and typically depicted sensational topics and situations. The genre itself was titled after 1962’s freewheeling Mondo Cane, one of the first films of its type, directed by the Italian film-makers who would become the genre’s keenest practitioners: Paolo Cavara, Gualtiero Jacopetti and Franco Prosperi.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest One of Mondo’s hallmarks was its unsettling blurring of fact and fiction – an approach that makes the films hard to know how to respond to, and often landed its creators in hot water. For example, Jacopetti and Prosperi’s tellingly titled Africa Blood and Guts (1966) took as its subject the violent end of colonialism in a variety of African territories in the 1960s. Prior to its release, allegations arose that a scene depicting the execution of a Congolese Simba Rebel had been staged for the camera. Jacopetti was arrested on charges of murder and footage was seized by police. He was only acquitted after he and Prosperi provided documents proving they’d arrived at the scene just before the execution took place.Mondo films would come to be known by the catchier “shockumentary” moniker, which in turn became a signifier of cheapness and toxically poor taste. Ruggero Deodato’s notorious Cannibal Holocaust (1980) – a brutal progenitor of the now-ubiquitous found-footage genre, replete with horrifying sequences of animal cruelty – was thought to be a genuine snuff film. It was confiscated 10 days after its premiere and its director charged first with obscenity and later murder, a situation not helped by the fact that its four main actors signed contracts demanding they avoid the media for a year. The court ultimately found Deodato, the producers, screenwriter and the studio representative guilty of obscenity and animal cruelty, handing each a four-month suspended sentence.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Skullduggery: a scene from Mondo Cane. Photograph: Blue UndergroundPinkerton first presented the program, in condensed form, at this year’s edition of the True/False film festival in Columbia, Missouri. So what sparked his interest in drawing together, for public consumption, this gaggle of incendiary, unavoidably controversial titles? “Probably on some level a desire to upset the apple cart,” he replies, “and thumb my nose at a film culture that consigns work that doesn’t provide easy-to-follow guidelines on how to receive it, into the dread category of ‘problematic.’“I see the way the wind is blowing,” he continues, “and if art is going to be a vehicle for positive self-reinforcement and binary, blinkered worldviews, I basically want to be the scumbag in the corner in a soiled trenchcoat going ‘Psst! Hey you! Wanna see some ‘bad objects’?”Today, when even the most mainstream fare is routinely deconstructed for its perceived ideological shortcomings, it’s bracing to watch something as fundamentally horrendous and complicated as Prosperi and Jacopetti’s mock-doc Farewell Uncle Tom (1972). It is simultaneously the least palatable and most fascinating film in the Mondo Mondo program.In it, a pair of contemporary journalists travel through time to the antebellum south to report on slavery, beginning with the nuts and bolts of slave transportation itself. The film was shot mostly in Haiti, where Jacopetti and Prosperi were treated as honored guests of dictator “Papa Doc” Duvalier, who afforded them diplomatic cars, the right to film anywhere on the island, a nightly chow down at the palace, and a limitless supply of extras – the often naked black bodies who pepper the film’s landscape with disturbing density. The film’s torrent of simulated – though graphic – rape and abuse renders it incredibly difficult to watch, and it appalled the late critic Roger Ebert, who wrote: “They have finally done it. Made the most disgusting, contemptuous insult to decency ever to masquerade as a documentary.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Farewell Uncle Tom: ‘maybe it should be locked in a disused lavatory’. Photograph: Blue UndergroundPinkerton describes Farewell Uncle Tom, not inaccurately, as “a nasty movie made under unforgivably compromised circumstances involving a staggering amount of cognitive dissonance that puts a viewer in a terrible place.” Yet he’s equally keen to stump for its pioneering qualities. “It’s a completely unique work that marries the Italian epic tradition to the story of human chattel in the Americas. Neither of these aspects are mutually exclusive of the other. Maybe it should be locked away in a disused lavatory somewhere. I don’t think so.” The film is unsparing in its lampooning of venal, vainglorious slave-owners, and detailed about the economic basis of slavery in a way that no recent films on the subject – including Django Unchained and 12 Years a Slave – can match. If the purpose of art is to challenge and disturb, Farewell Uncle Tom must be considered a success.Also included in the program are films which predated the mondo aesthetic, and a selection of austere, powerful non-fiction works which were maligned for their seeming connection to the mondo phenomenon. These include Belgian film Des Morts (1979), an explicit, harrowing look at the autopsy process, with footage of actual autopsies and embalming procedures; and the remarkable The Killing Of America (1982), co-directed by Sheldon Renan and Leonard Schrader (brother of Taxi Driver writer Paul Schrader.)       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mondo Cane: sticking its tongue out at taste and decency Photograph: Everett/Rex/ShutterstockThe latter is an examination of national violence, presented as a battering-ram cavalcade of race riots, genuine assassination footage, and interviews with killers, including, chillingly, a grinning Sirhan Sirhan, murderer of Robert Kennedy. In a current national climate when mass shootings are petrifyingly commonplace, and there is apparent deadlock in the debate around gun control, The Killing of America strikes a powerful chord.Renan said in 2015: “I realized that the things that are forbidden for us to see, images of birth, images of sex, images of death and dying, are things that we need to see. We need to have a great deal of information about the world in which we live … even more than we did 35 years ago, because we have more power, more access, more capability, and we lead longer, deeper, and more complex lives.” Renan, incidentally, came to this realization while watching 1970s porno Deep Throat, yet his argument speaks powerfully to the way we live now, exposed to a torrent of death and destruction in the age of high-speed internet and 24-hour rolling news. His film, such as the Mondo Mondo offering at large, dares us to gawp into the void; to ask ourselves whether it’s truly possible to become desensitized to the horrors around us.