Female authors and reviewers have found more room on literary pages over the last year, according to the annual Vida review, which has previously shown a major skew towards male writers and reviewers.The American organisation has tallied up the gender split of reviewers along with the authors being reviewed at major publications including the New York Review of Books, the Times Literary Supplement and the New Yorker for the last six years. This year, it highlighted improvements at Harper’s, where bylines by women have increased by 11 percentage points to 38% of the total since last year, reflecting “executive editor Christopher Beha’s public commitment to improvement”. Granta magazine continued its “steady progress toward gender parity”, said Vida, with women representing 49% of contributors, while at Poetry magazine 49% of bylines were by women.Male writers continue to dominate literary criticism, Vida study finds At the New York Times Book Review, women took 45% of the pie. There was also a “dramatic increase” at the New Republic, where women’s share of the total was 45%, up from 27% last year, said Vida. At the Boston Review, meanwhile, women took 46% of the total, up from 33% in 2010.Vida also looked at 26 smaller publications, 15 of which published as many or more bylines by women writers, including A Public Space (72%), The Normal School (69%), and Crab Orchard Review (64%). Nine were closing in on gender parity, with female bylines representing 40-49% of the total, while female writers took less than 40% of the pie at just two of the smaller magazines.The bestselling novelist Jennifer Weiner has long been a vocal critic of gender bias in book reviews, and in 2010 attacked the “sexist” New York Times, which she said loved “its literary darlings, who tend to be dudes w/MFAs”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Author Jennifer Weiner. Photograph: Walter McBride/CorbisWeiner said she was “happy to see the progress” reflected in the new analysis. “Readers and writers being vocal and persistent have made editors take a hard look at those pie charts and tried to do better,” said Weiner. “While there’s clearly work to be done with regard to inclusion – the push for diversity should not begin and end with more opportunity for straight white women with MFAs – things are moving in the right direction.”Vida’s new figures did reveal a significant gender bias at some of the larger publications. At the New York Review of Books, female authors and reviewers represented 21% of the total. The Times Literary Supplement’s clocked in at 29% and the London Review of Books at 23%. At the Atlantic, the overall percentage for women dropped to 30%, its lowest result for the last three years.“After six years of counting, most major publications are on alert,” said poet and Vida chair Amy King. “That doesn’t mean they’re amenable to taking the disparities seriously, but those who aren’t seem to have realised it’s no longer OK to express such sentiment publicly, and even that is a small step.”“Otherwise, I think publications are becoming more aware, not just because of Vida’s efforts (though I think we play a part), but also because of the increased visibility in culture of the biases and aggressions that play out because of them.”“Women are feeling more empowered to demand their voices be heard – and be heard on our terms,” said King, citing the influence of activist groups such as Black Lives Matter, which was created by women. “It’s why we see such a public polarisation in the US presidential election right now. Many citizens are speaking up on behalf of those who are rendered invisible or silenced, and the backlash against those demands for space and microphones can be heard loudly from the Trump and Cruz camps,” said King.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Black Lives Matter co-founders Opal Tometi, Alicia Garza and Patrisse Cullors. Photograph: Slaven Vlasic/Getty ImagesFor the first time, this year’s Vida count also looked at female reviewers and authors’ race and ethnicity, sexual identity and ability after surveying almost 700 female writers, finding that straight, white, able-bodied women were best represented. In these respects, some female writers better represented in print, Vida said in its report, asking: “To what extent is the status quo rendered bankrupt by such glaring absences? If the literary landscape is dominated by specific groups, how can we be healthy as a society and benefit from both our differences and commonalities? Isn’t one of literature’s effects to humanise populations beyond our own?”The New Republic published the most bylines by women of colour; 17 of the 47 stories Vida’s survey respondents represented were written by women of colour.The New York Times Book Review published the greatest number of bylines (25) by writers who identified as mixed-race, and the Times Literary came second with 18 bylines. The New Yorker and the TLS published women writers in “all sexual identity categories”, Vida reported, and Poetry magazine featured 55 bylines by non-heterosexual authors, compared to 48 bylines by straight/heterosexual female writers. The Atlantic, by contrast, had 19 bylines by straight/heterosexual writers and just one byline by a writer whose sexual identity is broad spectrum.How well do you know fiction's female protagonists? – quiz Six of the 15 major publications looked at by Vida – the Atlantic, Harper’s, the Nation, New York Review of Books, Paris Review, and Threepenny - did not include bylines by disabled women writers. The TLS, NYTBR and Tin House were found to have the most bylines by disabled women writers.The award-winning author Nicola Griffith, who last year discovered after analysis that a book was more likely to win a prize if the protagonist is male, said she was “absolutely delighted” that Vida had expanded its count this year. “It’s clear that there are very few women being published in these journals who manage to surmount more than one degree of difficulty from the easiest setting – that is, straight, white, male, and able-bodied,” said Griffith. “I found myself eagerly searching for writers like me – queer and crippled as well as a woman – because it helps to know there are others who have broken past multiple barriers to entry. We all look for our tribe, and the smaller our tribe the more we need to find it.”Griffith hopes Vida will now expand its remit to survey the gender of book protagonists. Her own research last year looking at the winner of six major awards found that the majority were written about male characters. “Last year’s Booker prize shortlist appalled me. The novels were overwhelmingly about men,” she said.