If the gender bias surrounding modernist artist Georgia O’Keeffe has begun to peter out, thanks to a new exhibition at Tate Modern, then it might seem jarring to look at her clothes. But her sharp, stark, androgynous style was representative of a woman who was ahead of her time not only in art but also in fashion.Minimalism and flats have been the Céline template for a decade. Calvin Klein, too. Even Victoria Beckham has dipped her toe in, with all three designers making clear references to the ‘feminist’ designer. So it makes sense for the high street to follow suit. A Jigsaw collection — on sale from Thursday — comprises 40 pieces inspired by O’Keeffe’s wardrobe and her expressionist work.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Georgia O’Keeffe and one of her skull paintings, 1931. Photograph: Everett/CSU Archives/Alamy Stock PhotoO’Keeffe (1887-1986) spent much of her career (which spanned the best part of the 20th century, from 1916 to the late 70s) rallying against the persistent gender divide in the avant-garde art world. Men were considered better artists, or at least more profitable, and although she is now considered one of the most prominent modernists of her peer group, at the time there was little she could do little to dispel the status quo. This might explain why she started dressing like a man, or at least adopting a more masculine aesthetic via tailored suits, a bowler hat, tennis shoes and brogues. Sometimes, she went for deep Vs and flats and, while her look was probably more feminine than masculine in retrospect, some of the details (no waist, little colour) were staggering, given that this was 1920.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   O’Keeffe at the National Gallery of Art in Washington DC in 1977. Photograph: Gallo Images/Rex/ShutterstockThe Tate Modern exhibition, which opens on Wednesday, aims to exorcise the Freudian (and frankly entry-level) readings of her flower paintings (flowers painted by women are vaginas) pushed by male critics and, it seems, at the behest of her husband, photographer Alfred Stieglitz. Stieglitz was a great photographer but was equally well-versed in the world of art dealership and knew what would sell. O’Keeffe was torn, sometimes siding with Stieglitz, but often not; in 1976, she refused to be part of an exhibition celebrating women in art in Los Angeles because she didn’t want to be seen through a gendered lens – like Louise Bourgeois, she reacted to a legacy that had been outlined by men. But she knew she was good. Her work sold; in 2014 one of her works became the most expensive painting by a female artist ever sold at auction.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   O’Keeffe at her home in Abiquiu, New Mexico in 1974. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoEventually, her style morphed into more of a uniform: hyper-minimal kimonos, wide-lapelled shirts and cigarette trousers for the most part in black or white. If Stieglitz acted like some sort of career svengali, then at least O’Keeffe had creative control over her styling – the contrast between her monochrome look and the bright, explosive canvases acted as a sort of billboard. It was a move not dissimilar to the French artist Niki de Saint Phalle, who adopted a similar get-up in the 1950s and 60s: all white polonecks and tight trousers. These women were the black crows of the art world: blank and undistracting, focused on promoting their work rather than their gender. It is worth noting that much of O’Keeffe’s inspiration came from feminist writer Charlotte Perkins Gilman, who advocated “social and domestic reform”, which included reformation of gendered clothing – that boys and girls should dress the same.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Georgia Illustration Dress, £279, from Jigsaw’s new collection.Jigsaw’s new collection feels contemporary and wearable: kimonos, wide lapels, simple waistless dresses, the sort of thing O’Keeffe wore to paint in. Then there are the more conceptual additions, as Sally Graveling, Jigsaw’s head of woven design, explained when describing a wraparound shirt: “We were thinking of the wrapping of the petals on a flower.” Images of the artist, designed by Rob Phillips, are printed on silk, while O’Keeffe’s hands – Stieglitz was fixated by her hands, and the way their movement gestured towards the movement in her abstracts – have been captured by tessellation artist Sam Kerr.O’Keeffe’s style shifted towards something more feminised towards the end of her life – it’s reported that she had 26 wraparound dresses hanging in her wardrobe, above rows of Salvatore Ferragamo shoes. This was the public O’Keeffe who realised she probably had to kowtow to social mores on one level by wearing a skirt. Jigsaw nods to the lesser seen side of the artist with a dress illustrated by Phillips. In truth, the real O’Keeffe was nothing short of a proto-Phoebe Philo, the designer who reinvented minimalism for the modern women. Except O’Keeffe didn’t wear Stan Smiths.