David Bowie’s singing voice was so sweetly beautiful that he sounded interesting whatever he sang. Roy Orbison was in the same category, with the additional appeal, to my mind at least, that he wasn’t concerning himself with intergalactic sexual ambiguity. But in my own career as a pop star, which has always taken place exclusively inside my head, I am blessed with the voice of Johnny Cash: not sweet, not beautiful, but with the tone of command, so listeners are held captive even when they are already held captive, in Folsom prison.There was a song Cash sang near the end of his life that I now listen to often, near the end of mine. It’s called Hurt. The words are bleak, but his phrasing lends them majesty. When he sings about “My empire of dirt”, he seems to be saying that his life has come to nothing, but we know that he can’t be right, or he wouldn’t sound like that. It’s an untrained voice, but regret has brought depth to it.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest As for trained voices, I have been listening again to the great duet in Madama Butterfly that was sung so wonderfully by Renata Scotto and Carlo Bergonzi back in 1966. Even though they were both great singers, they wouldn’t have been quite so great if the conductor hadn’t been Sir John Barbirolli, who could do for Puccini what he did for Mahler: keep the melody rhythmic. So what we experience now as a gloriously spontaneous outburst for a couple of lovesick youngsters is really the result of a whole context preparing its immortality in advance.Context matters. Roy Orbison’s context gathered around him for the 1988 Black And White Night concert that set the seal on the revival of his career and his comeback from tragedy. BBC4 has it on tape and plays it often. I always watch, enchanted by the way musicians of the calibre of Bruce Springsteen and Elvis Costello are content to play supporting roles on the same stage as a man who could write and sing his monumental In Dreams so as to make you want even more of it. Look hard at the lineup of backing singers, and you will notice that one of them is KD Lang, gracefully bopping along. The last thing in the show is a one-line quote from her, saying that Orbison wrote epics.Clive James: ‘Steven Seagal restores himself through aikido training. I have tried it and it works’ Every artist, even a miniaturist painter such as Nicholas Hilliard, wants to make an epic impact. If you don’t, however, there’s no point blaming the philistine society into which you were born. Your problem is that the society isn’t philistine enough: it’s full of artists who are all making their own epic impacts, so nobody can hear yours. Try again.