Given recent government lethargy overthe hot potato of property construction, the early years of Channel 4’s first soap opera Brookside now look like a poignant tribute to Newbuild Britain. For the suburban north, Brookside was our life on screen. The drum pad and synthesizer theme tune sounded like something off a below-par OMD album. The Liverpool of the title sequence looked touched by the photography of Tom Wood and the smoothie aggro of Derek Hatton. On Brookside Close – a cul-de-sac of boxy Barratt homes – recognisable local dramas were dignified with episodic, Dickensian, sign-of-the-times significance.Brookside was Phil Redmond’s second generation-defining TV idea after he’d wrestled the schoolyard back from the plummy worlds of Just William and Mallory Towers with Grange Hill. It was his running commentary on Thatcher’s Britain, demarcated by interconnecting characters built squarely of resistance, wit, petty criminality, specifically northern sex appeal and interfamilial squabbling. It was a romantic, kitchen sink drama of the new north, of flicked hair, Farah slacks, Adidas cagoules, home perms, stretch jeans, patio windows, betting stubs and a swift half down The Swan.When good TV goes bad: how teen fave Dawson’s Creek lost its paddle Often it was about the little stuff. Sometimes – most famously with Sheila Grant’s rape, later with Beth and Mandy burying an abusive father under the Jordache patio – the very biggest. Brookie was 80s Britain in all its curtain-twitching parochial magnificence, a world where your neighbours were aunties and grown men wept at the proliferation of P45 slips clogging the postman’s bag.In Harry and Edna Cross at No 7, the soap predated the emotionally tremulous opening sequence of Pixar’s Up by a good 20 years. Indrippy Gordon Collins, it delivered British soap opera its first gay character, and in Damon Grant its best terrace casual. Sheila and Bobby Grant embodied enough of a new national mum and dad archetype to see actors Sue Johnston and Ricky Tomlinson honoured a decade later, by Caroline Aherne recasting them in The Royle Family. For writers such as Aherne, Brookside spoke a particular, resonant vernacular where religion, death, money and relationships were aggregated against the localised concerns of a gas bill squandered or the affront of a family when their son wanted to join the police force. Rod “The Plod” Corkhill was one of a gamut of smallscreen giants who felt like they’d been cast atlocal bus stops.Such was his commitment to the project, Redmond drafted more than 900 episodes. Jimmy McGovern, Frank Clarke and Frank Cottrell-Boyce all served time on Brookside scripts. Many more, including Paul Abbott and Sally Wainwright, would have probably written very differently without it. Brookside waded manfully into the 90s before struggling with an increasingly weighty storyline load. As the multi-channel age approached, ratings concerns saw plotlines turning ridiculous.The shark-jumping moment for Brookie happened in the complete character U-turn of Lindsey Corkhill. After drugs are planted in daughter Kylie’s teddy bear on a trip to Bangkok, she turns from nail-filing everywoman into gangland overlord, one part Scarface to two Wonderwoman. Actor Claire Sweeney struggled to make her unhinged overhaul stick. As a character-based soap, Brookie was relatable charm incarnate. As The Bourne Identity, less so. By 1999, another Channel 4 daily everyman drama had gripped the nation. Big Brother took Brookie’s resonant ear for a slice of real life and made it realer still. Who was scouse season one winner Craig Phillips if not a real-time amalgam of Tinhead, Barry Grant and Sinbad? Brookside buried itself under the patio in 2003.