Now is the summer of our discontent. The summer of rained-off barbecues, racist trams, death. Of padding into meetings in sodden sandals, and throwing down our notebook with a massive: “Oh what does it matter anyway, everything’s gone to cock.” If 1967 was the summer of love, then 2016 will go down as the summer of shit.In 40 years’ time, your grandchildren will ask where you were when Britain prolapsed. I say ask, I mean enquire online, prodding the question into the “Contact me” page on your Pokémon profile with the robot they use for a hand. There will be commemorative plates with a poignant message in Latin and that photo of Nigel Farage drinking a big pint. They will become highly collectable, one appearing on the New Antiques Roadshow to gasps of fond recognition. Ah, the old people will croak at home, but nobody will hear them over the outside roar of burning books and their tent flaps banging. In what was once London, there will be a museum where you can actually have a go on the real Boris zip wire, landing in a little hell-pit at the end, for the photo-opp. The Brexit bus will do tours of the former United Kingdom, stopping at the original Poundland in Burton-upon-Trent, the once thriving company bought out last week at a bargain price to the delight of metaphor hunters everywhere. If you book a ride in advance you get a bag of broken biscuits for the journey. Sharing is discouraged. Britain felt embarrassed, isolated, scared of everything. Also it was the worst year for butterflies since records began Over the Tannoy, doomy electronica will play underneath the voice of Come Dine With Me’s Dave Lamb. As passengers drive past the former Houses of Parliament he will explain how the idea of hope and love was binned off in favour of Project Fear, because it seemed easier at the time. Less admin. Post-referendum, Project Fear evolved into a way of life. It became a concept that stretched across the country like clingfilm over a loo seat, from the economy to immigration, landing eventually at Britain’s bunioned feet.Racism, homophobia, anti-semitism. Attacks across the world by men with guns, men with bombs, men with knives, men with trucks added to the general hum of suspicion and anxiety. On a domestic scale, people whispered about their neighbours, families split along north-south divides; standing back, Britain felt embarrassed and isolated and scared of everything. Also it was the worst year for butterflies since records began.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  30 days that shook the worldContinuing the trend for old-fashioned names that make grandparents wince, babies born in nine months time will be called Theresa and Jeremy, named after the people that sent their parents upstairs to screw away the news, eyes very shut indeed. In 40 years’ time, your grandchildren will ask what people did when Bowie died, and you’ll tell them, with a wry nostalgia: “Argued on Twitter over the correct way to mourn.” And Prince? “Argued again, but louder.”When we think of the summer of love we think of flowers and heat and naked couples tripping through meadows. When we look back at the summer of shit, our minds will immediately go to that gif of Michael Gove clapping wrong and the smell of badly dried washing.Even the fun was awful. England lost the football. The rise of “elite” dating apps where anonymous cabals review your Instagram to see if you’re cool enough to join made single people hate themselves and everybody else. Secret Cinema exists. Last week there was an adults-only ice cream festival in an adventure playground. The big summer film of 2016 was an all-female Ghostbusters remake. Before it even premiered, a subsect of fragile male fans were complaining that it had ruined their childhood, leading many to feel waves of rare sympathy for the trolls as it became clear that they must have had pretty awful childhoods. They were responsible for the trailer becoming the most disliked video in YouTube history, the uproar and sexism clouding the release of a movie that this week’s reviews say was quite good, actually. A concept that seems, this summer, oddly radical.Email Eva at e.wiseman@observer.co.uk or follow her on Twitter @EvaWiseman