From Clarissa Dickson-Wright punching an alsatian dog in the face to Piers Morgan on phone-hacking, Desert Island Discs has been a repository of anecdote, honesty and unlikely confession for three quarters of a century. It has gone through several incarnations while remaining, unassailably, a flagship of BBC radio.Kirsty Young picks her Desert Island Discs And yet, like so many of Britain’s most established institutions – from the monarchy to the House of Commons – much of what goes on within Desert Island Discs is unknowable. What do castaways drink in the studio? How loud is the music? Who decides if a luxury item breaks the rules? I have spent years wondering all of this. Then, just before the show’s 75th anniversary, I was invited behind the scenes of this national institution.As well as eight records (who could forget Nigella Lawson’s choice of Teenage Dirtbag, Ed Miliband picking Angels by Robbie Williams or David Attenborough taking a recording of the lyre bird) and a copy of the Bible, guests also get a book and the “luxury item”. These can be tellingly idiosyncratic. Just picture John Major, stripped to the Y-fronts and sunburnt, beside his replica cricket bowling machine. Or a bushy-bearded Noel Edmonds stalking into his luxury of ... a motorway service station.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Who could forget David Attenborough choosing a recording of the lyre bird? Photograph: David Parry/PAThe guest this week is Caitlin Moran who erupts into the room just minutes after Kirsty Young and her producer, Cathy Drysdale, stroll in, each carrying a single A4 sheet of song titles. If this sounds like a dangerous lack of research, don’t be fooled. Young spends weeks prepping for each interview, going through the wodge of documents given to her by one of the show’s two researchers. It is these researchers who meet the castaways a few weeks before recording to discuss their songs. Facts are checked, dates confirmed, choices swapped or dropped, depending on their wishes. Then it is time for Kirsty to give them her honeyed interrogation.“We don’t ever say a song is inappropriate, as long as we can find a long enough section to be broadcast,” says Cathy. “As it’s a conversation, I can give context,” adds Kirsty. “So if someone picks a Slovakian cabbage-picking song they used to play to their kids in the car, I can ask if their children are still speaking to them afterwards.”As Caitlin pulls off her leopard print coat, Kirsty sips her coffee, Cathy looks through her notebook and Jackie the studio manager pulls up the list of songs in the order chosen by Kirsty and Cathy. I’m surprised, having always imagined that the guest chooses the order. But of course, this is the responsibility of the team who make the show. “I write the introduction and the structure,” says Kirsty. “Then Cathy and I will liaise and she will point out things she wants me to ask about and where we might put them in. It’s important not to overwrite it. But I’ll come in with all the questions that make me feel that I securely have 45 minutes of radio. Then I gaily throw them over my shoulder, of course, but they are the pegs you need to make the tent stand up.”Perhaps due to the amount of wine drunk during the research session (Caitlin’s excuse, not mine) there has to be a last-minute swap of Kate Bush’s Hounds of Love for Wuthering Heights. It is done in a flash. I sit in the corner, beside a computer screen covered in titles, times and grey boxes, as Caitlin and Cathy pick out the particular section of Flowered Up’s Weekender and check the recording of Pulp’s Common People. Then, with the music sorted, Caitlin is ordered to leave her phone in her rucksack and enter the recording studio. Desert Island Discs: 75 defining moments from 75 years of castaways “Let’s just have a rodding good time,” I hear Kirsty say, as the soundproof door swings shut. Watching the two settle in, I am struck by the intimacy of the scene. While Kirsty faces us through the large window between studios, the producer occasionally talking to her through closed headphones, Caitlin can see nothing but Kirsty and a large wall-mounted clock. “I sometimes say to castaways, ‘People are meeting you today. They’re not meeting my version of you. They’re sitting here, meeting you’,” Kirsty tells me later. “I might say things like ‘You’re wincing when you say that,’ simply so the listeners can see what I see. But my purpose is to get as close as possible to that person’s version of their own life. If you meet Bruce Springsteen, you’ve got to abandon all your baggage and just try and meet them – and get them to meet you – in that moment. There’s an awful lot of hype and fuss and entourage around some of those people, but we just try to keep it very calm and simple.”It is true that castaways dance along to their tracks, and sometimes cry. “If there’s a pause because somebody is trying to avoid something I think they should explain then I’ll let it sit,” says Kirsty. “But if it’s a pause because somebody looks incredibly upset about something that’s very tender, then you leave them to gather their thoughts. That’s when you might introduce the music. And sometimes, when I ask if they still want to talk about it, they do. In the case of Dawn French, she did want to say the things she wanted to say about her mother, who had died a few weeks previously. I am comfortable having the common decency to judge it as a person. You feel the texture of the exchange at the time.”A question comes up towards the end of the recording about the island – are all castaways on a single island or is it an archipelago? And if it’s the latter, Caitlin asks, does that mean she’s allowed to swim to Bruce Springsteen’s island? Cathy bellows a loud “no” into Kirsty’s headphones.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Is the island an archipelago? Can I swim to Bruce Springsteen?’ … Caitlin Moran. Photograph: BBCBeing interviewed by Kirsty Young looks like an intimidating experience. Without a script, with the guest’s whole life held in her head, Kirsty listens with total concentration, ready to blindside them at any moment or pull on a thread they’d meant to keep hidden. “It’s like getting an OBE, but better,” says Caitlin, in the raucous post-recording atmosphere. “You want to tell Kirsty things – she’s so clever she notices things nobody else will. She’ll ask you questions in your own words, using your own stock answers, so suddenly you actually have to think about the bloody question and it’s terrible. And wonderful.”There have been times when Desert Island Discs has had to move beyond the safe, soundproofed walls of Studio 70B, Broadcasting House. When Aung San Suu Kyi agreed to be a castaway, Kirsty and Cathy flew to Burma, the producer rushing around the record shops of Rangoon to find a recording of Mya Gyi by her father General Aung San, and, afterwards, celebrating with margaritas in the hotel bar. But, as much as possible, they keep to this tried-and-tested structure. This studio. This handful of people. This atmosphere of calm concentration.After the big recordings they often go out for a glass of something; Kirsty to celebrate a job done, Cathy to prepare for the task yet to come. “It has to get into some kind of manageable story,” she says. “It’s a question of how much weight you give to a particular story. It has to properly represent them and what is important to them.”It has been just over two hours since I arrived. The tray of coffee cups has been taken away. The A4 printouts of the track listing are folded away. Caitlin has hugged and kissed us all goodbye. It’s just Kirsty, Cathy and Jackie, sitting in a huddle. It’s time for me to leave. Walking down Regent Street, away from Broadcasting House, I hear pigeons, not seagulls. The island, for now, has disappeared.Desert Island Discs celebrates its 75th anniversary on BBC Radio 4 with castaway David Beckham on 29 January. 