The director of a controversial documentary about the disproven link between a vaccine and autism said that “the first amendment is under attack” in the wake of Tribeca film festival’s decision to pull the film from its lineup.Makers of controversial anti-vaccination film fire back after Robert De Niro Tribeca snub “It’s moved from a vaccine issue and civil rights issue to a first amendment issue,” said Andrew Wakefield, the director of Vaxxed: from Cover-Up to Catastrophe and a disgraced British former doctor who published a study in 1998 that claimed links between a vaccine for measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) and autism. His paper was quickly found to contain numerous flaws and was deemed by the British Medical Journal “an elaborate fraud”. The Lancet, which originally published the study, retracted it in 2010, the same year that Wakefield was stripped of his licence to practise medicine in the UK.Wakefield spoke at a press conference in Los Angeles on behalf of the film on Wednesday, after distributor Cinema Libre Studio announced that it would open the film on Friday in New York followed by further engagements nationwide. Wakefield said Tribeca’s last-minute decision to drop the film days after Robert De Niro, who is a co-founder of the film festival, defended its inclusion, “should be an outrage to film-makers everywhere.”His sentiment was echoed by Philippe Diaz, Cinema Libre’s CEO, who said Tribeca had sent “a terrible message to film-makers”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Diaz recalled a “very heated” argument with the event’s directors on Saturday after learning of the news. “I said to them: ‘You are destroying the lives of the film-makers, as well as the distributor – this decision will hurt us.’”Asked if all the attention the Tribeca controversy has brought to Vaxxed could in turn benefit the film, Diaz shot down the assumption, saying that De Niro distancing himself from it has only done damage. “People now think [Vaxxed] is full of hot air,” Diaz said. “I wish we could have at least screened at Tribeca. I wish that people had seen the movie – and then we could have a real debate about it.”As to how the film was programmed in the first place, Diaz said Wakefield nudged De Niro, who has a child with autism, to let the festival programmers know he had submitted Vaxxed for consideration. “De Niro loves the film, I was told,” said Diaz. “For De Niro, I think it was an important film to show at his festival.” Diaz said the festival’s directors cited pressure from sponsors as the key reason for cutting it from the lineup. One of the event’s major donors is the Alfred P Sloan Foundation, which, along with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, has donated money to the development of an Aids vaccine. Why did De Niro promote an anti-vaxx film? | Rebecca Carroll Since word of the documentary first broke following its initial inclusion in the Tribeca film festival lineup, Vaxxed has often been described as an “anti-vaccine” film. The film-makers argued that’s a falsehood, stressing its aim is to make sure that vaccines are “safe”.The film aims to prove Wakefield’s discredited theory, in part by claiming new evidence that it says the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) suppressed.Wakefield said: “The media has been duped, the public has been duped, willingly or not – because this is not an anti-vaccine documentary. This is about safe and effective vaccines against serious diseases in children.”“No one at this table is anti-vaccine,” stressed Diaz.“If you want to see what this film is about then go,” concluded Wakefield. “If you don’t, then don’t comment.”Audiences in New York will have a chance to view the film starting on Friday at arthouse cinema, the Angelika Film Center. A Friday and Saturday screening will be followed by Q&As with Wakefield.