THIS COMPETITION IS NOW CLOSED.Since The Jungle Book was first published in 1894, Rudyard Kipling’s collection of adventures with Mowgli the boy and his animal companions has captured the imagination of children everywhere.It has been reincarnated in plays, a musical, even an opera - and most recently in the new Disney film. But what further adventures might the characters have if they were allowed to escape the original stories. What if Baloo met another bear, or Bagheera had a birthday? We are looking for young storytellers, between the ages of 6 and 12, to write us a short story re-imagining their favourite character in a new scene or scenario – maybe take inspiration from our series of lovely illustrations by artists who reimagined The Jungle Book too?We have a prize pack to give to the winner, made up of:4 tickets to see Disney’s The Jungle Book at the cinema of your choiceTwo plush toys of characters from Disney’s The Jungle BookA copy of Disney’s The Jungle Book original soundtrackSend a short story of no more than 500 words to books@theguardian.com before midnight on Wednesday 18 May 2016 to go in the draw.With the short story, please include:The child’s name and age (remember: this competition is only open to children between 6–12 years old)The contact details (telephone number of email address) of the entrant’s parent or legal guardianTerms and Conditions – The Jungle Book CompetitionEntering the Competition1. The Jungle Book competition (the “Competition”) is open to UK residents aged between 6 and 12 years old.2. The Competition is not open to employees or agencies of Guardian News & Media Limited (“GNM” or the “Promoter”), their group companies or family members, freelance contributors to GNM, or anyone else connected to the Competition. 3. Entrants into the Competition shall be deemed to have accepted these Terms and Conditions.4. To enter the Competition you must submit a short scene or story of no more than 500 words reimagining your favourite character from the The Jungle Book in a new plot or setting. You can choose any character from the book or film and reimagine the character in any setting – the more unique the better. An entry must include the contact details (telephone number of email address) of an entrant’s parent or legal guardian. Entries should be submitted to books@theguardian.com. No purchase is necessary. If you have any questions about how to enter or otherwise in connection with the Competition, please email us at books@theguardian.com with “Question about The Jungle Book competition” in the subject line. 5. Only one entry per person. Entries may be submitted by parents or legal guardians on behalf of their children. Otherwise, entries on behalf of another person will not be accepted and joint submissions are not allowed. You are responsible for the cost (if any) of sending your Competition entry to us. The winner shall be the owner or the child of the owner (as appropriate) of the email address from which the selected winning entry is sent.6. GNM accepts no responsibility for entries that are lost, delayed, misdirected or incomplete or cannot be delivered or entered for any technical or other reason. Proof of delivery of the entry is not proof of receipt by GNM. 7. The Competition opens at 15:30 on 22 April 2016 and closes at 23:59 on 18 May 2016. Entries received outside this time period will not be considered. GNM reserves the right in its absolute discretion to extend the closing date where the entries received are of insufficient quality. 8. You own the copyright to your Competition entry as its author. 9. By submitting an entry to the Competition, you give GNM:a. Permission for your entry to be published on GNM websites including but not limited to theguardian.com (“GNM Websites”) and on any social media account controlled by GNM, including but not limited to Facebook and Twitter accounts (“GNM Social Media Accounts”), and you grant GNM a non-exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide licence to use and publish your Competition entry in electronic format (including on GNM Websites and GNM Social Media Accounts) and hard copy (including in GNM publications) for purposes connected with the Competition, and to adapt the entry to enable such publication (including to crop or otherwise edit it for such purposes), and you hereby irrevocably waive, for the benefit of GNM, all moral rights in the entry to which you are entitled; and you as the author of your entry and/or as a winner of the Competition; andb. The right to use your name and county of residence for the sole purpose of identifying you as the author of your entry and/or as a winner of the Competition.10. Your entry must not be copied, must not contain any third-party materials and/or content that you do not have permission to use, and must not show inappropriate or dangerous behaviour, or otherwise be obscene, defamatory, distasteful, offensive, or in breach of any applicable law or regulation, or in breach of any confidentiality obligations owed by you to third parties. If we have reason to believe your entry is in breach of this paragraph 10 then we may not consider it and may disqualify it. 11. We may disqualify your Competition entry for the following reasons: your entry does not comply with these Terms and Conditions; you are not eligible to enter the Competition; or you, or your parent or legal guardian, cannot be contacted. In the event of disqualification, we may select a new winner in accordance with the selection processes outlined below. Picking the winner12. A panel of judges, including at least one member who is independent of GNM, will select one winning entry from all valid entries received in accordance with these Terms and Conditions. Full details of the judging process and the names of the judges are available on request to books@theguardian.com.13. When choosing the winner, the judges will consider how original and thought-provoking the entries are, as well as considering the general quality of the writing.14. The judges will select the winning entry on or after 19 May 2016. The judges’ decision is final and no correspondence will be entered into. Entrants must not contact, or try to contact, the judges in any way in connection with the Competition, or otherwise try to influence the judges’ selection of the winner. The Prize15. The winner will receive one copy of the Jungle Book soundtrack, two plush toys of characters from the new Disney Jungle Book film, and four tickets to see The Jungle Book at the cinema. GNM accepts no responsibility for any costs associated with the prize that are not expressly included in the prize. 16. The parent or guardian of the winner will be notified by phone or email on or after 12 May 2016 and given details of how to claim their prize. If the winner’s parent or guardian does not respond to GNM within 14 days of being notified of the win, the winner’s prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner in accordance with the process described above (and that winner (or his/her parent or guardian) will have to respond to notification of their win within 14 days or else they will also forfeit their prize). If the winner (or his/her parent or guardian) rejects their prize or the entry is invalid or in breach of these terms, the winner’s prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner. 17. When contacted, the winner’s parent or legal guardian must confirm their child’s consent to the licensing to GNM of the winning entry as per paragraph 9 above, and must confirm whether they consent to the winner’s name and county, in addition to their winning entry, being published by GNM in accordance with paragraph 9 above and to the winner participating in promotional activity as per paragraph 24 below.18. Subject to paragraph 17 above, the name and county of the winner, in addition to their winning entry, will be published on theguardian.com/books on or before 22 May 2016 and such information shall remain available until 26 May 2016.19. The prizes will be sent to the winner by 26 May 2016. 20. The prizes are non-exchangeable, non-transferable and not redeemable for cash or any other prize. 21. GNM reserves the right to substitute any of the prizes with an alternative prize of similar value in the event that the original prize offered is not available. Some other rules22. Subject to paragraph 17 above, the name and county of the winner can be obtained after 20 May 2016 by sending a stamped addressed envelope to the following address: Books Desk, Guardian News & Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. 23. Subject to paragraph 17 above, the winner may be required to take part in promotional activity related to the Competition and the winner shall participate in such activity on the Promoter’s reasonable request. The winner consents to the use by the Promoter and its related companies, both before and after the closing date of the Competition for an unlimited time, of the winner’s voice, image, photograph and name for publicity purposes (in any medium, including still photographs and films, and on the internet, including any websites hosted by the Promoter and its related companies) and in advertising, marketing or promotional material without additional compensation or prior notice and, in entering the Competition, all entrants consent to the same. 24. The Promoter shall use and take care of any personal information you supply to it as described in its privacy policy, a copy of which can be seen at http://www.theguardian.com/help/privacy-policy, and in accordance with data protection legislation. By entering the Competition, you agree to the collection, retention, usage and distribution of your personal information in order to process and contact you about your Competition entry, and for the purposes outlined in paragraphs 18 and 22 above.25. GNM accepts no responsibility for any damage, loss, liabilities, injury or disappointment incurred or suffered by you as a result of entering the Competition or accepting the prize. GNM further disclaims liability for any injury or damage to your or any other person’s computer relating to or resulting from participation in or downloading any materials in connection with the Competition. Nothing in these Terms and Conditions shall exclude the liability of GNM under law for fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation, or for death or personal injury resulting from its negligence. 26. GNM reserves the right at any time and from time to time to modify or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, this Competition with or without prior notice due to reasons outside its reasonable control (including, without limitation, in the case of anticipated, suspected or actual fraud). The decision of GNM in all matters relating to the Competition is final and no correspondence will be entered into.27. GNM shall not be liable for any failure to comply with its obligations relating to this Competition where the failure is caused by something outside its reasonable control. Such circumstances shall include, but not be limited to, weather conditions, fire, flood, hurricane, strike, industrial dispute, war, hostilities, political unrest, riots, civil commotion, inevitable accidents, supervening legislation or any other circumstances amounting to force majeure. 28. The Competition and these Terms and Conditions will be governed by English law and entrants to the Competition submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts. 29. Promoter: Guardian News & Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London, N1 9GU.