The American singer-songwriter Prince will play shows in Australia and New Zealand this month as part of his Piano and a Microphone tour.Prince: ‘I was right about the internet – tell me a musician who’s got rich off it’ Promoters Dainty Group and Kerry O’Brien Publicity made the announcement on Friday and said more details will be announced soon. Prince confirmed the news on Twitter.Prince3EG (@Prince3EG)!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! pic.twitter.com/WiOKCZtdw8February 5, 2016Prince3EG (@Prince3EG)Pantal @DjPantal @Prince3EG is this real?? freaking out right now QUITE REAL, YES!February 5, 2016Last-minute tour announcements have become routine for the artist. In early 2014 he surprised British fans by playing small venues with almost no notice for his Hit and Run tour. At London’s Koko nightclub he played 14 hits in a row and earned a five-star review from the Guardian.Prince review – ‘What we’re going to do right now is play 14 hits in a row!’ When Prince first announced his Piano and a Microphone Tour, it was to a small group of European press invited on short notice to his Paisley Park estate in Minnesota, made famous by his 1985 song of the same name. The media sat at the singer’s feet, and Prince continued playing piano during the Q&A, answering some questions he liked, and playing the Twilight Zone theme at questions he didn’t.At one point he dared the Guardian’s Alexis Petridis to sing the 1988 hit Sign o’ the Times with him, in front of the group. (“Among Prince’s panoply of talents lies a nonpareil ability to screw with journalists,” Petridis wrote at the time.)During the event, Prince said he wanted to tour without a band because he was so unused to getting bad reviews that he felt he needed a new challenge. The show was scheduled to tour Europe, beginning in Austria on 21 November, but the dates were cancelled after the Bataclan concert attacks in Paris.The intimate tour began in January at his Paisley Park estate, and sees the 57-year-old funk-pop singer sandwiching plenty of stories from his past between songs.The show was well reviewed by Rolling Stone: “No powerhouse band, no impossibly lithe dancing, no masterful guitar fireworks. Just, as the show’s official title put it, ‘Piano & a Microphone’. And a lot of Prince. Maybe more Prince than he’s ever shared before.”The setlist took audiences through a chronological tour of his back catalogue, including Raspberry Beret, Paisley Park and I Wanna Be Your Lover, with Prince playing a purple baby grand piano.Prince’s last visit to Australia was in 2012 during an arena tour. The Piano and A Microphone tour will mark his first visit to New Zealand.