Prince Far I had finished off well over half an ounce of weed on the journey from Birmingham to High Wycombe. My legs could barely support me as I stumbled out of the little van and into my friends Kelson and Janet’s house. They had kindly prepared food for us. It wasn’t long before all their herb was also finished. It was now getting late, so Far I and his drummer, Fish Clarke, settled down on the couch and floor for a night’s sleep and I headed up the hill to my mother’s little terraced house and quietly crept in. The following day, before heading off to London, I took everyone to meet my mother, Jill, and stepfather, John. Far I was very polite and Fish was in a very bubbly, fun mood. Far I kept calling Jill “Mommy” in his low, low voice and at first everyone looked a bit awkward.It was a memorable meeting, with all of us sitting in the living room as my Jamaican guests drank cups of tea with five and six teaspoonfuls of sugar. “Would you like some tea with your sugar, Prince?” “Thank you, Mommy.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Prince Far I … Sherwood’s mother called him ‘the Honey Monster’. Photograph: Kishi Yamamoto/PRJill told Far I that he sounded like the Honey Monster, the Sugar Puff character who said “Where’s the honey, Mummy?” Although it was a while before he actually saw the advert, he did the impression for her and had her in stitches. They actually got on really well, which was very fortunate, as in the couple of years that lay ahead she would be getting many reverse charge calls from Jamaica in the middle of the night. From that moment on, if Jill asked after Far I, it was always “How’s the Honey Monster?” And he always called Jill “Mommy”.Prince Far I had originally been named King Cry Cry. I thought that was because his voice bellowed out, cried out. But I’m pretty sure he got his first name because he was, well, prone to crying. His image was of this larger than life, tough, carved-out-of-granite type, but on our first day in London something was wrong. He started by holding his belly, curled up with spliff in a foetal position, and started crying. He was in agony. He had some hot, sweet tea, kept smoking and after an hour or so the pain seemed to pass. This was the first time we witnessed something that would happen again and again. Thinking Far I had been simply taken by a violent stomach bug or such, we made our farewells and arranged to meet a few days later at the office of Carib Gems – the label I co-owned with Chips Richards.This was 1976. I was a junior partner in Carib Gems, but I was helping select what we released and was really pleased that Far I was coming to the office to meet Chips. I was really keen to get another record of his to put out. Far I and Chips turned out to have a close mutual friend, Claudie Massop. I had no idea what a significant figure he was in Jamaican “politricks”. Massop had once been the foreman at a bauxite works in Jamaica giving work to Far I. They were good friends and Massop who, even then had a formidable reputation, provided protection for Far I if ever it were needed. In the coming months, I was to hear story after story about Claudie, Bucky Marshall, Tek Life (Take Life) and a bunch of others who I guess could be best described as political gunmen and enforcers. Being young and pretty innocent to the world, I naively took them to be either producers or musician friends of Chips’ when they visited the offices. When I was told otherwise, it still seemed like it had to be exaggerated – they couldn’t have possibly done the things I heard. Could they?Far I liked our setup, as well as Chips’ association with Claudie and my enthusiasm. He agreed to do an album for us. GREAT. We made a plan to make the album using the best Prince Far I vocal tracks from his own Cry Tuff Productions and one or two unreleased ones and call it Message from the King, after the track featuring him and the wonderful vocal group Culture. However, we were still a couple of tracks short of an album, so Chips hired a studio for a session. We used Far I’s musicians, whom he’d brought from Jamaica – Fish Clarke on drums and Errol “Flabba” Holt on bass. I was sent off to the studio for the planned recording. Chips, bless him, told me I’d be a producer one day and to get down to the studio and get involved.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The session started with Far I physically attacking Fish. I don’t know why, but it was a bit of a shock. Fish would keep avoiding Far I’s attempts at swatting him while saying “Stop chat me business”, and that he was taking liberties, but while somehow staying respectful and not retaliating. I stepped in and broke up what was more a scuffle than a fight and the session soon proceeded as if nothing had happened. In fact, I don’t think “Flabba” even raised an eyebrow while he tuned his bass (and almost tuned a guitar). We had no guitarist, so Flabba played both, and Fish played drums and percussion. Far I voiced the two tracks and after four hours the whole session was finished. The incident was never mentioned again, and we left with two stunning tracks, Foggy Road and The Dream.It was days like this that made me more than motivated. Lucky me. Despite or because of the random madness and magical moments, I think I became addicted, after what was my first proper recording session, to the prospect of being involved in many, many more recordings.I got home from the session and played back the vocal and dub mixes. The whole experience had been like a fantasy land for me: Prince Far I and the Arabs at my friend’s house, at my mum’s and in the studio, with lots of great free weed. It felt pretty surreal. Then suddenly things started getting rather more strange …Sherwood at the Controls: Volume 2 is out now. On-U Sound will release anthologies of Lee “Scratch” Perry and African Head Charge later this year. Adrian Sherwood plays the Jazz Cafe in Camden, London, on 3 December.