Excuse me in advance for mixing food and book metaphors, but, hey, bear with me! The thing is, there’re times when I go out with friends and just can’t face a stodgy big main meal, no matter how delicious it sounds. So I’ll grab myself a snack-ish starter and sweet little pudding instead.Same goes for books – if you’re not in the mindset for something chunky and meaty, aim for a slim and satisfying speedy read…1. Brace Mouth, False Teeth by Sita BrahmachariSita Brahmachari: the importance of diverse names in children's books Zeni’s work experience placement sucks – she’s sent to help out an old people’s nursing home. But she quickly comes to notice Alice, who lives in her own little wonderland of lost memories. This story of a girl on the brink of being an adult, and a woman on the brink of losing herself through dementia is very touching, but the emotion is wrapped around with brightness and warmth.2. M is For Autism by the students of Limpsfield Grange School and Vicky MartinI have autism and the lack of authentic autistic voices in books angers me Meet M, a teenage girl on a mission to find out what normal’s all about, from the viewpoint of being on the autistic spectrum. Gorgeous, thoughtful writing, with truly striking illustrations and layout.3. Smile by Raina TelgemeierTotally fun graphic novel of the trials of being a teenager – a teenager dealing with friends, boys, braces and earthquakes! 4. May B by Caroline Starr RoseNoodling through social media one day, I happened by chance upon this little book that’s become one of my all-time favourites… A novel in verse, it tells the story of May B, a pioneer girl stranded alone in the Kansas prairies. Think ‘Little House on the Prairie’ meets ‘The Weight of Water’ and you’ll get a flavour of this only-published-in-the-US gem. 5. Electrigirl by Jo Cotterill, illustrated by Cathy BrettCathy Brett: Why can't teen fiction have pictures? Holly is an average schoolgirl, who falls out with her friend one minute, and is struck by lightening and turns into a superhero the next! Part book, part comic, this book is fast and furious fun.6. Life on the Refrigerator Door by Alice KuipersIllness in YA fiction – do authors go too far, or not far enough? Claire and her mum are like ships in the night, forever passing and missing each other, and only communicating with notes they leave each other on the fridge door. When we first dip into their lives, those notes – in which the whole story is told – are silly, fond and full of everyday chit-chat… till life happens to take an unexpected and frightening turn. 7. Mr Gum and the Biscuit Billionaire by Andy StantonAndy Stanton's 'cult humour for kids' Mr Gum books are officially 96% bonkers and 100% wondrous, for all ages. How can I pick a favourite out of this dazzling bundle of stupidly good fun? Well, because this second in the series stars a living, breathing billionaire gingerbread man called Alan Taylor. And why not.8. Ways to Live Forever by Sally NichollsSally Nicholls: Most of my books are quite dark – I have a habit of killing off half of Europe Sam is ill, really ill. Through short but affecting chapters – interspersed with notes and lists – you’re really there with him, wondering, hoping, crying and laughing. This book is simply stunning.9. The Weight of Water by Sarah CrossanWhat are the best books on immigration and adapting to life in the UK? Kasienka and her mother arrive in the UK with a suitcase and laundry bag stuffed with clothes, as well as hope and fear in equal measure. Kasienka’s window on life as an immigrant is told in a fresh, poetic and rivetting way. Unputdownable.10. A Dark Trade by Mary HooperI love Mary’s light touch with weighty historical tales (full-length novel ‘By The Sign of The Sugared Plum’ is a huge favourite of mine), so I was more than happy to stumble across this story of a Victorian maid who disguises herself as a boy to escape danger – and walks straight into a situation much more dangerous…       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Karen McCombie has had more than 80 novels published. The OMG Blog is her sixth (speedy read!) for inclusive publishers Barrington Stoke. Buy it at the Guardian bookshop