Ransom Riggs is to open the door to Miss Peregrine’s Home for Peculiar Children a little wider with a new book of fairytales set in the fantastical world.Riggs’s bestselling novel – which is being adapted for film by Tim Burton, with a script by Jane Goldman and starring Samuel L Jackson and Eva Green – has sold over 5m copies around the world. Set on an island off the coast of Wales, and illustrated using vintage photographs found by Riggs, it sees 16-year-old Jacob discover the ruins of Miss Peregrine’s Home for Peculiar Children on the island, as well as more details about the children, who may still be alive.Riggs has followed the novel up with two sequels, Hollow City and Library of Souls, and the children’s books arm of Penguin Random House has announced that it has acquired an illustrated collection of original fairytales set in the same world, for publication this autumn. Tales of the Peculiar, said Riggs, is a crucial plot element in his second novel, Hollow City – “a big, heavy, quite old book of fairytales beloved by the peculiar children – so beloved, in fact, that it’s one of the few items they choose to save from Miss Peregrine’s house as it burns to the ground at the end of the first novel”.  Teenagers are extremely smart: if an author is ‘writing down’ to them, they will throw the book across the roomRansom Riggs “The kids love the stories, but they also need them; they’re encoded with secrets concerning the location of time loops and the identities of certain peculiars, and studying them actually saves the kids’ skins a few times in the second novel,” Riggs said. “I loved the idea of a book of fairytales meant especially for peculiar children, and I love even more the idea of making that fictional book real. I’ve been itching to write Tales ever since I finished Hollow City – and I’m so glad I was finally able to. I’ve never had so much fun writing anything.”Miss Peregrine’s Home for Peculiar Children grew out of Riggs’s hobby of collecting old photos. He decided the people in them might make a book, and showed them to an editor at Quirk. The editor suggested Riggs write a novel and weave the pictures through it, and Riggs ended up with Miss Peregrine.“I didn’t know who I was writing for initially. I assumed Miss Peregrine was for adults, because I was an adult – but I didn’t know much about publishing back then,” Riggs said. “When my editor read it – and noticed that 90% of my characters were teenagers – he naturally suggested it might be a young adult novel. And of course it is! But I think the key to writing for teenagers is something I stumbled upon by accident, which is not to consciously write for teenagers. Teenagers are extremely smart, and if they think for even a second that an author is ‘writing down’ to them, or mimicking their voice poorly, or condescending to them in any way, they will throw the book across the room.”Ben Horslen at Penguin Random House, who struck the deal for Tales as well as an untitled young-adult novel from Riggs, said that the author was a uniquely talented writer who had created in the Miss Peregrine trilogy “one of the most original and atmospheric story universes in young-adult fiction”. “We’re looking forward to expanding that universe this autumn and making the UK book market just a little bit more peculiar,” said Horslen.