On the eve of his inauguration, late-night hosts roasted incoming president Donald Trump with Trevor Noah saying that “we’re fucked”.The comic, who leads The Daily Show, expressed concern about the decision to elect the host of The Celebrity Apprentice over a seasoned politician. He ridiculed Trump’s tweet where he showed himself writing his inauguration speech earlier this week.Samantha Bee on Kellyanne Conway: 'Soulless, machiavellian despot' “America, you have to get used to the fact that you’ve elected a reality star president and you should know a publicity still when you see one,” he said. “Donald Trump was just promoting tomorrow’s premiere of the 45th season of the TV show Presidents … it’s also the final season by the way.”The Daily Show (@TheDailyShow)Season 1 of Trump’s presidential reality show premieres tomorrow! Oh wait, this is real. pic.twitter.com/rzmUmNrreSJanuary 20, 2017He also revisited footage of Trump posing for photographers while promoting an earlier season of his NBC show. Noah said: “How is that a president? Oh my God, we’re so fucked.”On The Late Show with Stephen Colbert, the comic started by discussing Trump’s decision to fly to Washington DC on a plane that looked rather familiar.“Donald Trump flew down to DC Thursday on a plane that looked eerily like Air Force One, and when we say flew we don’t mean he flew the plane,” he said. “You wouldn’t want to trust something that important to someone with zero experience.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Of the inauguration, he joked: “It’s inevitable – like death and never seeing his taxes.”He also spoke of the confirmation hearings for Rick Perry, who launched a failed presidential campaign in 2012 when he stated he would close the energy department. Colbert recalled: “Remember back when we thought someone was too dumb to be president?”Broad City on the inauguration: 'It is about to get I Am Legend up in here' On Late Night with Seth Meyers, the ex-SNL star spoke of Trump’s approval rating being at a record low for any incoming president. He said:“It’s like getting ready for the Super Bowl, if the Super Bowl was the Cleveland Browns v players who were cut from the Cleveland Browns.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest He also joked about the lack of celebrities attending yesterday’s inauguration concert. While Trump tweeted that A-list celebrities were desperate for tickets, he wanted to focus on the people instead. Meyers said: “He sounds like a high school senior getting ready for prom. All the popular girls asked me to go, but I wanted to go with my mom.”Meyers also spoke of Trump’s much-ridiculed inaugural speech picture from earlier in the week. He said: “He has the face of that dude at Starbucks who you know is never finishing that screenplay.”