The first thing you think when you’re asked to work on Titus is that the stage staff and costumes people are going to kill you. It’s Shakespeare’s grisliest play, and you know there’s going to be blood everywhere. The hero’s daughter is raped then mutilated. Titus chops his own hand off on stage. The play ends when he kills the two sons of his bitter enemy and bakes them in a pie. I’ve worked for the RSC for the best part of 30 years and done several productions of it, most recently with Michael Fentiman in 2013. It doesn’t really get messier than Titus.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the trailer for the RSC’s 2013 staging of Titus AndronicusBlood gets everywhere – all over the costumes. It gets stuck in the trapdoors. Actors slip on it. So, of course, it has to be washable, and not leave stains or be poisonous or anything like that. It’s mainly sugar and ice-cream colouring: it’s food-based because it’ll end up in actors’ mouths. We have a couple of suppliers and we use a couple of different textures, depending on how thick it needs to be and what kind of wound you’re trying to portray. The strange thing is that real blood doesn’t actually look real under stage lights – it’s too bright somehow.We make all sorts of crazy things: little balls of blood wrapped in clingfilm that can be popped into a mouth as small as a raisin; big colostomy bags filled with gore. Near the end of the play, when he kills the two sons, Michael wanted them to be hanging upside down so Titus could slit their necks. The two boys had a little button that controlled the valve on the tube and started the blood flowing. It took a lot of technical rehearsal to get it right – you have to get the timing spot on. Michael wanted the conclusion to be a total bloodbath, so everyone on stage had blood bags that they burst on each other and themselves. It went everywhere – on the audience, too.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Interview with Stephen Boxer about Titus AndronicusIf a character comes off stage it’s a bit easier, because then you can do quick changes of costume and apply makeup. The big one in Titus is Lavinia, who is dragged into the woods and raped, then has her tongue cut out and her hands cut off. Rose Reynolds, who played her in Michael’s production, would come off stage and we would just descend on her – two or three people changing her costume and wig, making her up with wounds and bruises and all sorts of horrible things, tying strands of hair around her hands as if they were makeshift bandages. We made her chew liquorice Black Jacks to make it look as if the tongue had gone. There’s only a few minutes to do all that – Shakespeare makes it really tough!It’s hard to imagine how Elizabethans would have done it: we think they used pigs’ blood and bits and bobs from the abattoir, but how on earth they kept that out of the costumes I have no idea, and you can imagine what the smell must have been like. Even so, Shakespeare calls for all sorts of things, particularly in the tragedies: stabbings, poisonings, mutilation, onstage deaths. In Michael Boyd’s productions of the Henry VI plays a few years before, someone else had their tongue cut out, which we ended up faking with pieces of pear cut to the right shape. Gloucester, in King Lear, has his eyes put out: more fake blood. Shakespeare loves a bit of gore.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We made her chew liquorice Black Jacks to make it look as if her tongue had gone’ … the RSC wigs and makeup department get to work on Rose Reynolds’ Lavinia, during Titus Andronicus in 2013. Photograph: Gina Print/Royal Shakespeare CompanyWhen it came to the really notorious moment, Titus chopping off his hand, we devised quite a simple solution: the actor, Stephen Boxer, made it look as if the hand plopped into a bucket of tar, and then dunked it in as if to stop the blood. It worked really well. I remember Deborah Warner’s production in 1986, when Brian Cox popped his hand in a bag and appeared to cut it off with a cheesewire. There wasn’t any blood at all, but even so, people in the audience were sick and fainted. It’s all about what you’re prepared to believe.