A group of 200 Cornish historians has criticised plans by English Heritage to turn Tintagel Castle into what it has called a “fairytale theme park” based on the legend of King Arthur rather than highlighting its true past.The Cornwall Association of Local Historians said it was appalled that the head of the wizard Merlin had already been carved into a rock face at the wind and wave-battered site. It has asked the organisation to think again about other plans for Tintagel, which include installing a larger-than-life sculpture partly inspired by King Arthur and a compass installation that may remind visitors of the round table. In a statement the association said: “We are appalled at what English Heritage is doing to Tintagel, one of Cornwall’s most historic sites. As an organisation of over 200 local Cornish historians, we view with alarm the plans to turn Tintagel into a fairytale theme park.” It said that focusing on the “mythical fantasies” that King Arthur was conceived at Tintagel guaranteed eclipsing the real story of the site. The association accepted that many people visited because of the Arthurian legend but argued that it should not be the role of English Heritage to further the fantasy.  It said: “In fact, it should be the function of EH to help visitors learn the true history of this Cornish place, to begin to better understand what has gone on before and to preserve that heritage. “The idea of carving even a small face of a mythical druid into one of the stones of Stonehenge or adding an 8-foot statue of a legend to the scene would be beyond any historian’s imagination.”The association said that if English Heritage wanted to combine history and fantasy it should hand the site over to Disney. “This is a historical site for Cornwall and we urge EH to look elsewhere to hype the box office to increase revenues. Don’t tamper with Cornish history.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tintagel Castle attracts 3,000 visitors a day in the peak summer season. Photograph: AlamyThere is certainly more to Tintagel than Arthur. It is believed to have been a seat of Cornwall and Devon’s dark-age rulers and was a key trading settlement that linked the region with the Byzantine world. But then in the 12th century Geoffrey of Monmouth, arch-spinner of Arthurian legends, laid the foundations of its worldwide appeal by declaring the island fortress to be the place of King Arthur’s conception. Monmouth’s claims may have prompted Richard, Earl of Cornwall, younger brother of King Henry III, to build a castle on the spot in the 13th century. As early as the 17th century tourists started to visit and in the 19th century the explosion of interest in Arthurian legend and the arrival of the railways in Cornwall brought vast numbers to the site. It is now a moneyspinner. Tintagel is one of English Heritage’s top five attractions, drawing about 200,000 visitors a year and up to 3,000 a day in the peak summer season. Some Cornish nationalists have long had a problem with English Heritage and its focus on places such as Tintagel as an epitome of Englishness.A group called Kernow [Cornwall] Matters to Us was visiting the site to discuss the issues with English Heritage on Tuesday. The grand bard of Cornwall, Merv Davey, was also on site to talk about the concerns of the Cornish Gorsedh (bardic assembly). English Heritage argues that the new artworks were about telling the “rich and varied story” of Tintagel. Jeremy Ashbee, head curator at English Heritage, said: “Visitors to Tintagel Castle get a complete overview of the site’s history from the 5th century to recent times. We recently opened a new exhibition there which explores both the site’s archaeology and history, including for the first time, excavated artefacts. “Since the Middle Ages, the legends and literary associations of Tintagel have played a key role in shaping the castle. The importance of these legends is widely acknowledged by historians and archaeologists. Our new outdoor interpretation explains this and places the legends within the context of Tintagel’s overall history and significance.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An artist’s impression of the Bronze Blade, Marks Barfield’s submission for a new footbridge linking Tintagel to the mainland. Photograph: © MRC/Emily Whitfield-Wicks English Heritage said it had met and corresponded with groups including Kernow Matters to Us for a number of years and was “committed to presenting the Cornish language, history and culture at those historic sites in Cornwall in our care”.The row will not go away. In the next few weeks the results of a competition to design a new spectacular footbridge that will link the island fortress to the mainland will be announced. One of the favourites is a bridge designed by Marks Barfield, the creators of the London Eye, called the Bronze Blade, evoking Arthur’s sword – Excalibur. 