Why are American TV remakes always so sanitised? For every House of Cards or Shameless there’s a less successful US remake of a great British TV show – and there’s a long history of American copies that didn’t even make it to the screen. Luther is the latest bad cover version to be abandoned, but not before these cookie-cutter flops …Luther (2017)Best-laid plans The operatically overblown sleuther is a hit in the States on Netflix and BBC America. Fox tried for two years to find a lead actor for a remake, having commissioned a script by the original writer Neil Cross.Development hell This month they gave up, with Moonlight star Mahershala Ali considered insufficiently distinct from Idris Elba. Plan B, casting Rosario Dawson instead, stalled when the Daredevil star declined to commit to a series.Utopia (2015)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Death in paradise: Neil Maskell in Utopia. Photograph: Ryan Mcnamara/Channel 4Best-laid plans None other than David Fincher was signed up to direct a new take on Dennis Kelly’s astringently original thriller-shocker about geeks tumbling into a criminal conspiracy. Who would be Jessica Hyde? Rooney Mara, reportedly, with Jason Ritter also mooted to appear.Development hell With rehearsals under way and a whole first season ordered, Fincher and HBO disagreed on the budget for the show, so he walked.Only Fools and Horses (2012)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Top of the Peckham order: Del Boy, Rodney and Granddad. Photograph: BBCBest-laid plans To prove that the US can decide to remake literally any hit UK show at any time without warning, John Leguizamo was cast as Del Trotter, with Christopher Lloyd as Grandad. There was even a Trigger.Development hell ABC liked the first pilot a lot. Yes, they rejected it, but they asked the same cast and crew to make a second one later the same year. Then ABC rejected that as well.Bad Education (2014)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   School’s out: The cast of Bad Education. Photograph: Scott Kershaw/BBC/Tiger AspectBest-laid plans At the height of his ubiquity, Jack Whitehall briefly looked like cracking America when ABC transplanted his school-com to Chicago but retained him as the English lead character. “Will do everything to not make it shit (we may fail in which case #awkward),” he coyly tweeted.Development hell The pilot may or may not have been shit – we’ll never know, because it didn’t get a series. Whitehall merrily continued with another season of the BBC3 original and a spin-off movie.Footballers’ Wives (2007)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Behind every great man: The cast of Footballers’ Wives. Photograph: Shed ProductionsBest-laid plans Bryan Singer was the surprise choice to direct ABC’s attempt at recreating the singular magic of our beloved sports soap. Soccer was to become American football, and presumably the famous “sex on a snooker table” scene would have used a pool table instead. Not as roomy, but still viable.Development hell Possibly because ABC sister network ESPN was worried about bringing the NFL into disrepute, the show was pulled, despite having Lucy Lawless and James Van Der Beek in the cast.The IT Crowd (2007, 2014)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   This it IT: Mos, Jen and Roy. Photograph: Contract Number (Programme)/Channel 4Best-laid plans NBC initially remade the C4 sitcom without creator Graham Linehan. Seven years later he spent a week in LA shaping a second version, but when his changes were ditched and the project moved from NBC to Rupert Murdoch’s Fox, he bailed.Development hell Only the 2007 show got to the (unaired) pilot stage. Would Linehan try again? “If someone was interested in helping me reimagine it and not just lazily cashing in on the title,” he tells the Guide, “yeah, why not?”The Vicar of Dibley (2007)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   This is my church: The cast of The Vicar Of Dibley. Photograph: BBCBest-laid plans Kirstie Alley, who’d also been mentioned for the American Absolutely Fabulous, was cast in The Minister of Divine, an awkwardly titled transposition of Dawn French’s Dibley. There’s a theme running through bad US remakes of the original being too essentially British, never more so than here.Development hell Fox passed on the pilot, which tried to stick closely to the source material but ended up just taking the mickey out of hillbillies.The Thick of It (2007)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Political animals: The Thick Of It. Photograph: BBCBest-laid plans ABC secured Christopher Guest to direct, Arrested Development’s Mitchell Hurwitz to exec-produce, and Oliver Platt to star. Then it decided to get rid of the hand-held cameras and all the swearing.Development hell The pilot “was terrible”, said Armando Iannucci in 2012, having returned triumphantly to the US with Veep. “There were scores of people working on it, all called vice president this and that, and a lot of them were buffoons.”Misfits (2012, 2017)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Heroes welcome: the cast of Misfits. Photograph: Todd Anthony/Channel 4Best-laid plans As the UK Misfits was renewing its cast for season four, creator Howard Overman also worked with Gossip Girl/The OC wunderkind Josh Schwartz on a US version.Development hell Schwartz split from the remake’s backers, Warner Bros, so it wasn’t made. A fresh take has re-hired Schwartz but not Overman. Will it retain the original’s lashings of sex, gore and cursing? It’s on a Disney network formerly known as ABC Family, so … guess not.