A major exhibition by the British sculptor Rebecca Warren is to be the inaugural show for the UK’s newest contemporary art space, a gallery literally pounded into the cliffs of Cornwall.The extension to Tate St Ives will open in October with a programme that includes Warren, a Patrick Heron retrospective and a group exhibition of 35 female artists responding to the life and writings of Virginia Woolf.Announcing the inaugural programme for the new space, the gallery’s executive director, Mark Osterfield, said there would be “a step-change in what we do” at Tate St Ives.The gallery has been closed for 18 months for the £20m redevelopment which comprised two main elements: refurbishment of the existing gallery, which opened at the end of March, and creating an extra 500 sq metre (5,380 sq ft) of space for temporary exhibitions.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Interior model of main gallery of the new Tate St Ives. Photograph: Jamie Fobert ArchitectsThe latter has proved the most challenging since Tate has buried the gallery into the adjacent hillside. Unable to do any blasting, machines pounded down into the cliff for six months, producing enough rock for 922 trucks to take away. It has resulted in a large, flexible space benefiting from natural light thanks to six three-metre high roof chambers.On top will be a roof garden, which will become a public space. This means visitors to St Ives will be able to walk from the car park, across the buried building, down to the seafront, potentially unaware the new gallery space is there.Architect Jamie Fobert said when people heard Tate wanted to double in size there had been fears it “would completely overpower the town”. The challenge had been to create more space without major changes to St Ives’ townscape .      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The new Tate St Ives. Impression of the public garden above the new gallery. Photograph: Jamie Fobert ArchitectsThe dig took longer than expected because engineers discovered more blue Elvan rock than they had expected. Osterfield said Tate St Ives opened in 1993 with an expectation of no more than 70,000 visitors a year. The actual figure has been 250,000. When the new spaces open in October, another 50,000 visitors a year are predicted.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An artist’s impression of the exterior the new Tate St Ives. Photograph: Jamie Fobert Architects/Tate St Ives/PAHe said it felt particularly appropriate that an important female British sculptor like Warren should be the first artist in the new space given St Ives’ association with Barbara Hepworth.Warren, who was nominated for the Turner prize in 2006, is known for sculptures which can range from lumpy, cartoonish, sexualised clay figures to neon vitrines, which might contain a twig or a pom-pom or a cherry stalk.“This is her first major solo show in the UK. It feels thrilling to be able to have the space to show her large scale sculptures alongside her neon vitrines,” said Osterfield.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Why are you Angry? by Nashashibi/Skaer, on display in winter 2018. Photograph: Nashashibi Skaer/the artists/Tate/PAAfter Warren will be a show using the life and works of Virginia Woolf as a prism for exploring feminism and post-feminism in modern art. Works by more than 35 artists will go on display. The 2018 programme continues with the first major retrospective of Heron in 20 years, including large-scale works which Tate St Ives would not previously have been able to exhibit.Sir Nicholas Serota, who steps down as the director of Tate this year, said the need for redevelopment at St Ives was discussed as long as 10 years ago because there was not enough space to display the collection as well as temporary shows at the same time. That meant continually swapping with the gallery closed for about six weeks a year for rehangs.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The 2018 programme includes a Patrick Heron retrospective. Photograph: Patrick Heron/the estate of Eileen Agar/Tate St IvesThe new Tate St Ives is the latest chapter in what has been a golden period for new contemporary art galleries, from Baltic Contemporary in Gateshead to the De La Warr Pavilion in Bexhill-on-Sea to Turner Contemporary in Margate.Serota, who is the new chairman of Arts Council England, said he hoped the growth would continue. Even with Brexit, he said he did not believe there needed to be any funding squeeze on the arts. “As the prime minister has said on a number of occasions, we are the sixth biggest economy in the world,” said Serota. “The notion that we might not be able to afford continued investment in the arts would surprise me given the sums are very small in relation to the national budget.”