The poet Roy Fisher, who has died aged 86, did everything wrong – from a literary-careerist perspective. He rejected the political posturing that has been known to secure a writer public attention and prestige. He was indifferent to fame, and temperamentally provincial rather than metropolitan. Writing in both avant-garde and traditional modes, he was mainly published by small presses; and his early work, in the 1950s and 60s, gave way to silence for several years.Yet Fisher came to enjoy a unique reputation among his contemporaries as a humorous and versatile writer, an English modernist open to American influences, such as the Black Mountain Poets, yet distinctively English and local in his concerns. Critics such as August Kleinzahler, Marjorie Perloff and Donald Davie praised him. Oxford University Press published his Poems 1955-1980 (1980) and his much-acclaimed large-scale work A Furnace (1986). He was eventually to receive recognition in guises such as the Cholmondeley award for poetry (1981) and a fellowship of the Royal Society of Literature (2005). And in 2010 his selected poems, The Long and the Short of It (2005), were chosen on Desert Island Discs by Ian McMillan, who described him as “Britain’s greatest living poet”.Unhappy with his early work (“I poked my life away into / the bland English tongue”), Fisher hit his stride only when the Scottish poet Gael Turnbull introduced him to the work of modernists such as William Carlos Williams, Charles Olson, Denise Levertov and Basil Bunting. These were the avant-garde voices who enticed him towards language “just outside the city limits of English”. He also drew on Wittgenstein and John Cage, while A Furnace harnesses the mythopoeic energies of his sometime correspondent John Cowper Powys. Methodological consistency was out, improvisation was in: Fisher could set a poem going by, say, consulting the I Ching.He was, at the same time, sticking determinedly to his own territory: “Birmingham’s what I think with,” he once said of his home town. Born to Walter Fisher, a jewellery craftsman, and his wife, Emma (nee Jones), Fisher grew up in the inner-city district of Handsworth, living in the same small house until he was 23. Neither Wattville Road elementary school nor Handsworth grammar school thrilled him. Yet even as he acquired the nickname “Daft Kid”, he was provisioning himself with books from the local library. A love of jazz led him to read two volumes on the subject so many times that he could still remember whole sentences from them years later.After studying at Birmingham University, Fisher taught at Bordesley College, Birmingham, and Dudley College in the Black Country. He married the artist Barbara Venables in 1953; they had a son, Ben, and a daughter, Sukey. From 1972, Fisher lectured in American studies at the University of Keele. Jazz remained essential to him: as a pianist, he played countless gigs from the 1940s onwards, in any style from Dixieland to bebop. In a Caribbean combo, he recalled, he was the “token white” musician.The “actual physical fact” of his native city receives unprecedented attention in his work, but there is also the “city which has already turned into a city of the mind”, as in his first book, City (1961). “On the first bus nightworkers sleep, or stare / At hoardings that look out on yesterday.” A Brummie sensibility likewise saturates Handsworth Liberties, a later sequence deriving from his habit of associating particular pieces of music with particular places (a Beethoven piano sonata is “tucked up under the branches that used to overhang a long-disappeared set of railings”). The second world war’s devastation scars poems such as The Entertainment of War:When my father came back from identifying the daughterHe asked us to remind him of her mouth.We tried. He said ‘I think it was the one’.Fisher’s books – more than 30 in all – include the surreal sequence The Ship’s Orchestra (1966), the cut-up exercise The Cut Pages (1971) and The Thing About Joe Sullivan (1978; the title poem concerns the Chicagoan jazz pianist, “one of the innovators ... now too little remembered”), as well as collaborations with artists such as The Left-Handed Punch (1986, with Ronald King), a limited edition that came with 12 puppets.Retiring from Keele in 1982, Fisher moved to the Peak District village of Earl Sterndale – a place that sounded suitably like a blues pianist, as the Australian poet Laurie Duggan noted. There were to be well-received later collections, such as Birmingham River (1994), The Dow Low Drop: New and Selected Poems (1996), Standard Midland (2010, shortlisted for the Costa poetry award) and last year’s Slakki: New and Neglected Poems.His first marriage ended in divorce in 1985, and two years later he married the playwright Joyce Holliday. She died in 2002, and Fisher’s son also predeceased him, in 2009; he is survived by his daughter.• Roy Fisher, poet, born 11 June 1930; died 21 March 2017