You have to feel for poor Andri in Trapped (BBC4, Saturday), even before everything goes wrong. He’s the police chief of Seyðisfjörður, a bleak little place at the end of a fjord in the east of Iceland. In winter, it’s dark, and flipping freezing. The aftershocks of the 2008 financial crisis are still being felt.Andri’s work isn’t so interesting: crimes against parking are about as exciting as it gets. Nor is home life much sunnier. His wife has left him and now lives down south (Reykjavik), although Andri hasn’t accepted it’s over; he still wears a ring, and hasn’t done anything about putting the house on the market. Maybe her impending visit, with new man, will convince him.She’s planning on taking their kids away – although, that might be a plus, as they’re horrid little bullies. But they’re Andri’s girls, and he loves them. Oh, and the car’s playing up though to be fair, that’s probably because it’s minus-a-hell-of-a-lot. No wonder Andri’s a bit grumpy.And then it all happens. A body is fished out of the fjord; I say “body”, because there are no limbs, no head - just a torso, mottled and blotchy like the landscape in the artful title sequence. (Is that a volcanic outcrop, or a nipple? Old Man of Seyðisfjörður or Old Man of Murder Victim?)Andri thinks the torso may have come off the weekly ferry that has just arrived, captained by nice Danish Theis from series one of The Killing, and Borgen. He’s such a miserable bugger here, though, that he makes even Andri look like a bit of giggle.There’s a Lithuanian people-trafficker on board with his sickening cargo of two Nigerian sisters. Hjörtur, the town’s prodigal son, who is still suspected of starting the fire at the town’s fish factory in which his girlfriend died, is also back, and almost certainly up to no good.In the ship’s galley, there are plenty of sharp knives that may match the stab wounds in the torso, or which could have been used to butcher him. Not a happy ship, then, especially when the passengers aren’t allowed off and Captain Grumpy switches the heating off. Oh, and while we’re on about the fish factory, there’s nowhere to store the torso except the fish factory. So that is where the torso goes, on a steel slab. Morning ladies, can we interest you in some lovely halibut today? Or we’ve got this, fresh in today. How about a lovely fillet of dead dude for your tea?Then the weather closes in – a proper meteorological event, a blizzard that closes the airport and blocks the road out over the mountains (though Mrs Andri and her new man just make it). Seyðisfjörður is cut off, no help can get in and there’s a murderer on the loose. Then they’re all on the loose, in the snow, in the dark, along with the Nigerians and some of the local children. And the torso’s gone! Sorry ladies, just the halibut left.Things have snowballed into a frozen hell for poor Andri – but it makes a brilliant scenario for a moody crime drama. Trapped certainly shares DNA with its Scandi cousins; Denmark is only a ferry-ride away, to bring with it ideas as well as a dodgy captain. Sparse, stripped-down, simple, real? Check. Concerned as much with the characters and their problems as the plot? Check. A protagonist with some serious issues, who is flawed and worn down by life? Check. A focus not just on crime and solving crime, but on the consequences and victims of crime too? Já. Chilly, dark beauty? Hell, yeah.But this is not merely a copy. The cut-off thing adds a nice new intensity – it’s properly claustrophobic. And the beauty is different – it’s more about nature: grand, scooped-out glacial valleys, icy fjords, a volcanic land that is alive and dangerous. The economic situation adds an uncertain and volatile backdrop. Nordic maybe, but this is also most definitely, and proudly, Icelandic.I wonder what the tourist board makes of it. I love that opening scene, where Hjörtur and his girlfriend ride down the valley on her motorbike, in happier times. It does make me want to visit, but maybe in summer, when there’s less danger of getting trapped.From a TV-drama point of view, though, it’s already too late. Seductive, involving, gripping … I am already, thoroughly, trapped.