All great musicals need a moment of ecstasy that defines them. It may not be the best song in a show – it is simply the point when story, music and dance coalesce to achieve a spine-tingling transcendence. Here are nine key examples from the last 70 years, listed in reverse chronological order, in the hope that readers can supply the missing 10th.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Pick Out a Simple Tune, from Half a Sixpence (2016)It may seem odd to start with a number that wasn’t even in the original 1963 show. It was producer Cameron Mackintosh who suggested that the new version needed a number comparable to Oh Look At Me, I’m Dancing! from his beloved Salad Days. So George Stiles and Anthony Drewe (composer and lyricist) and Andrew Wright (choreographer) came up with a song in which the hero plucks at his banjo and has a group of toffs playing the spoons and swinging from the chandeliers. The result spreads delirium from the stage into the auditorium.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I’ll Build a Stairway to Paradise, from An American in Paris (2014)George Gershwin wrote this song in 1922 and it was incorporated into the 1951 MGM musical. But it is the way it is staged in the current production, which has moved from Paris to London via Broadway, that makes it a showstopper. Craig Lucas (writer) and Christopher Wheeldon (director and choreographer) have had the brilliant idea of suggesting it is the spiralling fantasy of a wannabe nightclub singer. Bob Crowley, as designer, creates an unforgettable image of stairs, starlit skies and art deco arches that tops off a fusion of talent that sends the audience into seventh heaven.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Best of Times, from La Cage aux Folles (1983)Jerry Herman is a supreme Broadway pro who knows just how to place a number. Late in this show Zaza, a flamboyant transvestite, induces a whole restaurant to sing along to this rousing song that tells us: “To live and love as hard as you know how / And make this moment last.” Mark Steyn has recorded how he once heard it defiantly rendered in a Greenwich Village bar at the height of the Aids crisis. But its “carpe diem” message lives on, and it is astonishing to see staid British audiences joining in its refrain in Bill Kenwright’s current touring revival.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A Little Priest, from Sweeney Todd (1979)You might not expect a number celebrating murder and the consumption of human flesh to induce musical ecstasy. Stephen Sondheim, however, pulls off that feat in a song set to three-four waltz time, in which Sweeney and Mrs Lovett list the professions that will provide meat for pies. Sondheim has written of the trickiness of finding suitable triple rhymes but the song works perfectly because we sway to the tune while savouring the lyrics. Who can forget the image of “some shepherd’s pie peppered with actual shepherd on top”?    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Hello, Dolly, from Hello, Dolly! (1964)Another Jerry Herman showstopper and a classic example of a number that logically makes no sense, but that theatrically always works. Hal Prince refused to direct the show unless the title number was dropped: he pointed out that Dolly Levi, a scrounging matchmaker with no money, would never go to a place as fancy as the Harmonia Gardens. Yet, over the years, countless figures from Carol Channing and Mary Martin to Dora Bryan and Danny La Rue have come swanning down that big staircase to provide theatregoers with a memorable take-home moment.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest America, from West Side Story (1957)This is the real deal: a perfect number in which Sondheim’s lyrics, Leonard Bernstein’s score and Jerome Robbins’s choreography exhilaratingly combine with the skirt-shaking elan of the dancers. Bernstein said he was fired up by a dance rhythm he heard in Puerto Rico called huapango. This becomes the excuse for a verbal battle between two women. “I like the city of San Juan,” sings Rosalia. “I know a boat you can get on,” retorts Anita. (This routine was re-scored in the film, above, making it into a male-female sparring battle.) A routine that makes you giddy with delight.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Rain in Spain, from My Fair Lady (1956)The story goes that composer Frederick Loewe and lyricist Alan Jay Lerner were debating how to create a song from Eliza’s elocution lesson. Lerner suggested “The rain in Spain stays mainly on the plain” and, within 10 minutes, Loewe had turned it into a tango. Polite decorum suddenly gives way to madcap excitement as Higgins and Pickering start playing matador and bull, while Eliza’s cockney vowels are replaced by cut-glass articulation. It’s the pivotal moment of the show.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Conga, from Wonderful Town (1953)Ruth, a writer in 1930s Greenwich Village, is sent to interview a group of young Brazilians just off the boat. Unfortunately, they have only three words of English, one of which is “conga”, so Ruth is forced to lead them on a merry dance through the streets of Manhattan. Again, this shows Leonard Bernstein’s embrace of Latin American rhythms and yields extraordinary performances. When Simon Rattle conducted the piece at the Proms in 1999, he had cast and audience snaking their way through the Albert Hall. I also heard Mark Elder conduct the Halle in a revival at the Lowry, Salford, in 2012 that had spectators jumping out of their seats.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Sit Down, You’re Rockin’ the Boat, from Guys and Dolls (1950)I know this induces ecstasy because I’ve actually danced it at the London Palladium. As part of a concert to commemorate the Daily Mail’s Jack Tinker, the London theatre critics formed the chorus of sinners in a restaging of the number from Richard Eyre’s fabulous National Theatre production. But you don’t have to dance it to enjoy it: merely to see and hear a group of Times Square crap-shooters joyously singing Frank Loesser’s revivalist number is be taken out of yourself and ushered into another world.