Doctor Who fans have called on the programme’s new lead writer to seize the opportunity to appoint a black or female actor as the 13th incarnation of the Time Lord, following the announcement that Peter Capaldi is leaving.The current Doctor will regenerate in this year’s Christmas special, with Broadchurch writer Chris Chibnall, who will take over the reins in 2018, being urged by some viewers to take the programme in a new direction.A formal decision by Chibnall and the BBC is not due for months, but online speculation has focused on Homeland and Supergirl actor David Harewood, the IT Crowd’s Richard Ayoade, Olivia Colman – who starred in Broadchurch, and Ben Whishaw – who plays Q in the James Bond films.It is not the first time that the subject of Doctor Who and diversity has been aired. Current writer Steven Moffat said the role was previously offered to a black actor but “for various reasons, it didn’t work out”. Pearl Mackie, whose father is from the West Indies, has been cast as the Doctor’s companion, and Moffat said it would be “amazing” for the show to have two non-white leads.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ben Whishaw, Olivia Colman and Richard Ayoade are also tipped as possibilities. Photograph: PAHarriet Harman, the former Labour deputy leader and prominent women’s rights campaigner, said Capaldi had been an excellent Doctor. “Of course there should be a female Doctor Who, but what we need is a man as her assistant,” Harman added. “She has got to tell him what to do. He will need that leadership.”Boyd Hilton, entertainment director of heat magazine and TV and film reviewer for BBC Radio 5, said: “I would be absolutely delighted if it was a black or female actor. All of the doctors since the revival have been first-class actors.“I was surprised by the news of Capaldi’s departure but on another level it makes sense because it gives Chibnall a completely new slate. He can decide what he wants for the role and the direction he wants to take the character. It’s like having all the toys at your disposal.”The Guardian’s critic Mark Lawson said that Chibnall had an “obvious opportunity” to do something different at a time of urgent debate in British TV about diversity. “It seems likely that Charlotte Moore, BBC TV’s director of content, will at least want a conversation about whether the gender and race of the character played by a dozen white men so far is written in stone tablets somewhere in the galaxy,” Lawson wrote.Chibnall will be taking over Doctor Who at a time when ratings have fallen dramatically. The show’s last series pulled in about 6 million viewers on average – far below the average of 8 to 12 million that had become the norm since Russell T Davies’s 2005 reboot of the show. Capaldi has attributed this loss to the BBC’s decision to air the family-focused show at a later time.Meanwhile, Alan Yentob, the BBC’s former creative director, said: “The show has been brilliantly revived by people who are passionate about the story. Ratings do go up and down, and it’s good timing now for a change. It’s a good opportunity to reimagine with a kind of conviction about the things that matter about Doctor Who, and I think Chris will be loyal to its legacy.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Peter Capaldi is leaving as Doctor Who. Photograph: Don Arnold/Getty ImagesChibnall and Moffat have both been huge enthusiasts of Doctor Who from an early age, Yentob added. He said: “All the doctors have been different. Some of the incumbents of the legacy have been completely unknown and have made a big impact when they’ve arrived and their careers have been made by the show. Peter was a figure who was known, who also inhabited that role, and made it his own. I think part of the pleasure of this is the excitement of not quite knowing who Doctor Who is.”Sebastian J Brook, founder of Doctor Who Online, which gets 35,000 visitors a day, said the show was “definitely changing”. “It’s going to pretty much be a clean slate as far as the series goes. They are definitely going in a new direction with it,” he said. Capaldi, he added, was also a risk for the BBC because he was older than most actors who had previously played the role. “But he did a fantastic job and it’s actually quite a shock for a lot of fans that this moment has come.”Brook said most fans were supportive of the idea of a black or ethnic minority Doctor, but that a female doctor would completely change the dynamic of the show. “You don’t want to tick that box just for the sake of it. There’s a formula that’s been working for 50 years and it’s there for a reason,” he said.“Before the BBC consider changing the lead role to a female Doctor, they should consider getting more female directors on the show. In the entire 50 years that Doctor Who has been on air there’s only been 10 female directors, which is a terrible reflection of the time we live in. Doctor Who’s very first producer was a woman, now there’s a success story for taking a risk. If they could do that a bit more now, it would be a better series as a result.”