 After escaping the maze Thomas thinks that he’s safe, that he can start a new life with his friends and be happy. But then he gets chucked into a desert wasteland with hardly any food or water and definitely not enough protection from the sun. The Gladers have to work their way through this desert full of human beings slowly being controlled by the Flare and any other horrors WICKED decide to throw at them, in order to get to the safe haven by the designated time and finally be free of all these trials. But can Thomas deal with the heat of the scorch and the betrayal of his friends?If you’ve read my review of The Maze Runner you’ll already know that I love this series with a passion. I am obsessed with it and cannot wait for the second prequel coming out in September! I feel that The Scorch Trials didn’t have as much going for it as the first book; it started off really well and then there were parts where it’s just them walking through the desert and commenting on the heat and the wind etc. It could get a bit uninteresting at moments but then there are moments that are so thrilling that they have you on the edge of your seat and your heart beating fast desperate to know what might happen next! I think there are a few things that James Dashner adds to the story and some of the characters that are really clever and you don’t see them coming. It gives you a bit more insight into WICKED and what they are doing and I really liked that. It just gives you a bit more to think about which is really good as I like mentally challenging books that make you think a lot.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest There are some new characters introduced who I really liked and I thought it was good to add characters with different back stories and experiences from the Gladers. They remember more about what was going on and it was interesting getting to know them. As there’s a lot of separation from each other in the books, it’s hard for there to be any further development of personalities and relationships, besides getting to know Thomas a bit more which is really good. I liked getting to know him more and hearing what his thoughts and views were on things. I feel that some of the other characters like Minho, Newt and Frypan, who are mentioned quite a lot and who clearly mean a lot to Thomas, don’t get the chance to really develop. It’s hard to know where they stand, where you stand as a reader and what your feelings are toward those particular characters. I feel as though James Dashner tries to include quite a bit of romance in this book and it just doesn’t work and it’s kind of creepy. There are a few things that I felt to be a bit sexist, for instance Thomas having to force himself to look at this woman’s face because her breasts were big. That made the book a bit worse for me as it irritated me throughout the story. I really like Thomas, he’s a cool guy and he can handle difficult situations well – but then he makes this comment and you can never think about him the same way. It really isn’t necessary to have him make that comment. I really liked the concept of the scorch and how it is just miles and miles of desert wasteland. One of the reasons I liked it was because it’s all based on nature; anything dangerous that happens is usually caused by nature and so it wasn’t as though the Gladers could fight off any monsters because everything that’s happening is kind of natural. It’s interesting seeing the Gladers challenged in that way and seeing how they behave in different situations. It’s just a bit more thrilling because anybody can suddenly become ill from the heat or not enough food and you literally have no idea when it might happen – whereas in The Maze Runner anything bad that happens is through the grievers. How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? Despite there being moments of nothing but walking through the desert, the bits that are good and thrilling are really properly good and thrilling. They’re so clever and at times a bit scary, I think those moments make the book for me. You can get through the less interesting bits and the annoying bits because the moments when something great happens all else is forgotten and those are the moments I remember after I finished reading it. I think it’s quite clever having a book where it’s not action and drama the whole way through because then when it happens, it makes it that much more exciting!4 out of 5 stars.Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!