Let me begin by running through some basic facts we all know to be true. First, Michael McIntyre isn’t funny. Second, Michael McIntyre doesn’t so much tell jokes as just baldly list things that people do. Third, Michael McIntyre is a floppy-haired berk with a shrill voice who doesn’t deserve any of his success.OK, good. Now that we’re all agreed on that, here’s something I’ve reluctantly come to realise. Michael McIntyre’s Big Show is the best Saturday evening variety show in years. God, that felt weird.It’s true, though. Despite everything – despite knowing that McIntyre is ultimately the Mrs Brown’s Boys of standup, despite seeing the bad job he did on Britain’s Got Talent, despite his unforgivable practice of prefixing household items with the word “man” for a series of easy anti-laughs – Michael McIntyre’s Big Show has managed to beat the odds to become something genuinely entertaining.Admittedly the competition isn’t great. The BBC has been especially guilty in recent years of handing Saturday night TV shows to whichever personality happens to be closest to the office – John Barrowman had one, Rob Brydon had one, Clare Balding had one, Gabby Logan had one – in the berserk hope that their popularity could single-handedly shoulder a circus of a show like this. The end results are always thin gruel: tonally inconsistent messes that coast along until they’re quietly put out of their misery.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Feels like it was tailor-made for McIntyre … Big Show. Photograph: BBC/Hungry Bear Media LTD/Gary MoyesBig Show, though, actually feels like it was tailor-made for McIntyre. It’s filmed in a theatre, not an identikit shiny-floored studio, which helps to root it in a sense of space. It begins with five minutes of standup – like a chatshow monologue, freed from the constraints of topicality and bristling with hell-for-leather physicality – that, unusually for this type of show, doesn’t feel like it was entirely constructed by the same team of “programme associates” that work on every sitcom and panel show going. Best of all, there are stunts like Send to All, where McIntyre hijacks a celebrity’s phone and sends a text to everyone in their contact list. As a segment, it sounds as bland as anything James Corden would invent, but in practice it often thrillingly threatens to come apart at the seams.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Send to All … the segment that often thrillingly threatens to come apart at the seams. Photograph: BBC/Hungry Bear/Gary MoyesLast week, for example, McIntyre mass-texted something about arses to everyone on Carol Vorderman’s phone, then looked genuinely mortified when one of the first replies came from the septuagenarian widow of an astronaut who died in the Challenger disaster. Other shows would have neatly snipped this cock-up out of the finished product, but Big Show was smart enough to leave it in. Watching McIntyre sweat over such a harrowing breach of etiquette helped to humanise him, and added a level of anything-can-happen unpredictability above the usual Saturday teatime zaniness.Clearly, this is not a perfect television programme. The opening titles are so gaudy they seem custom-built to make viewers lurch for the off button. The vast majority of musical acts are flat and uninspired. Nothing is particularly original or challenging. But in the world of Saturday night variety, where every new show dies at birth and even Ant and Dec are starting to show signs of strain, Michael McIntyre’s Big Show is actually something worth getting excited about. You know, if you like that sort of thing. 