 An hour of bliss writing in a half-landing window-nook at the vast, quiet red stone hotel near Carlisle, then a journey close to Hadrian’s Wall and the Tyne, both lost from view in rain, flowering elder and all the summer foliage. It could be a landscape of paradise, as in Thomas Hardy’s poem In Time of “The Breaking of Nations”. But now the man harrowing clods in that poem will be gazing anxiously at his ripening crop; the hill farmers checking their lambs will be wondering if there will be a market for a broken nation? Will there be grants for caring for difficult land? For land use that feeds us and conserves the wild flowers, the bees, the future? That makes our landscape what it is? The political parties collapse about us, one rent by quarrels, the other stumbling leaderless.Night and day, in the car, in the bar, we lament the national crisis, and talk about language, the line, the sentence, the song and power of poetry. Carol Ann Duffy asks us what we think is the perfect sentence. For her it is: “In the beginning was the Word.” I can’t better that.We arrive at the pretty stone town of Corbridge. It’s the feast day of saints Peter and Paul, but our host is St Andrew’s, a magnificent old church as lofty as a cathedral. Out of the rain into the warmth, the light, the gathering hum. Setting up are our bookshop partners here, Forum Books, and a cheerful bar. Gillian Alnutt, our guest poet, arrives. She tells me how awkward the brokenness is, how people skirt around the subject. Then poetry does its work. Camilla Elworthy introduces. I read. Gillian Alnutt follows, her clear, direct reading completely engaging the listeners. Then, one by one, each piped on stage by our own blackbird, our fellow artist, musician John Sampson, the poets step to the lectern: Jackie Kay warms the hour with laughter and tender silences; as the church clock chimes and Imtiaz Dharker pauses mid-poem, raising her hand; we hold our breath. Carol Ann comes on to great applause. She makes us laugh, and cry.Subtly, subversively, words speak to the heart, the hurt, the anxiety of a nation in crisis. We see it, and hear it, in every audience, every town, every stopping-place on this journey that has brought us so far from Cornwall to Corbridge, gratitude at the signing table from people who can speak to us and to each other at last. It is the best of times, it is the worst of times. Those who have broken Britain should hear their words.