Plans to demolish a century-old social housing estate in Chelsea and replace more than 200 affordable homes with luxury apartments for private sale are set to be rejected following a two-year campaign by residents supported by the comedian Eddie Izzard.Officials at the London Borough of Kensington and Chelsea have recommended that plans lodged to tear down the Sutton Dwellings by a leading social housing provider, Affinity Sutton, should be refused because they do not include enough replacement social housing. The borough also accused Affinity Sutton of overstating costs and understating potential revenues from the scheme in financial calculations setting out its viability in order to minimise the amount of social housing in the new development. The recommendation for refusal is a significant victory for campaigners attempting to stop the sell-off of social housing in the capital which has seen numerous low-income families forced to move out of the city. It is also a blow to Affinity Sutton which has argued that it needs to sell off homes on the site to fund the continued provision of social housing on the site in the absence of sufficient government funding. Its plans have been likened to “social cleansing” by the Save the Sutton Estate campaign group and Izzard, who backed the campaign.The homes were built in 1913 by the philanthropist William Sutton expressly to provide “houses for use and occupation by the poor”. Affinity Sutton now manages nearly 60,000 homes across the country and made a surplus of £145m last year.“The proposal fails to demonstrate that the maximum amount of affordable housing is being provided and the proposals would result in a net loss of social rented floorspace,” said Graham Stallwood, executive director of planning at RBKC in a report to planning committee members recommending refusal. “There are no agreed section 106 obligations to secure affordable housing and appropriate infrastructure required to make the development acceptable.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Sutton estate, Chelsea. Photograph: Graham Turner for the GuardianAffinity Sutton said it was “deeply disappointed” and said its application was intended to “retain social housing in Chelsea” and for “providing our residents with good quality homes”.It said it was “in fact exceeding the maximum [social housing space] that can be viably provided” and said it was wrong for the council to classify four vacant blocks as social housing for the purposes of the calculations because they are unfit for social housing.But the move was welcomed by Labour’s deputy leader Tom Watson MP who also campaigned against the proposals.“I’m delighted the residents of the Sutton estate in London have won their fight to save their community and won’t now be priced out of their own area by developers,” Watson said. “In its damning report, Kensington and Chelsea council found that Affinity Sutton overstated the cost of the scheme and underestimated revenues. The fact the plans have been thrown out is a victory for everyone who believes that affordable housing should be a right not a privilege.”The Sutton Dwellings are located in one of the most expensive parts of London, not far from the Kings Road in Chelsea. But for decades they have provided affordable housing at below-market rents. There are currently 462 flats spread across 15 mansion blocks, but Affinity Sutton believes four of the blocks are not fit for use anymore, and plans to demolish the whole complex. It wants to rebuild 343 flats with 237 for social rent and 106 for sale on the private market – some with multimillion-pound price tags. The council’s planning committee will finally decide whether to refuse consent on Tuesday 15 November. They have been told that the London mayor also believes it should be rejected. A report from City Hall states: “Greater London Authority officers consider there should be no net loss of affordable housing floorspace and do not accept some of the key assumptions in the viability assessment.“We are extremely happy that the officers are supporting the residents and supporting social housing over flats for overseas investors,” said Andrew Barshall, spokesman for the Save the Sutton Estate campaign. Affinity Sutton said it was “staggering that one of the recommendations for refusal is based on design. In addition to pre-application meetings, Affinity Sutton has consulted with the architecture appraisal panel five times and received their endorsement of the proposals”.It concluded: “We await the outcome of the planning committee next Tuesday and trust that it will halt the uncertainty around our residents’ homes and their future.”