It may be hard to believe at the moment, but there was a time in the US when spouting racist and misogynistic hate speech would damage your career, rather than propelling you to its highest office. Just ask Mel Gibson.Mel Gibson on testosterone – just what the world needs In 2010, recordings surfaced on the internet of Gibson berating his then-girlfriend, Oksana Grigorieva, in the most repulsive terms. Hollywood wasn’t happy. Even though the films Gibson had starred in and directed had made more than $2bn worldwide, as well as earning him an Oscar, his talent agency jettisoned him the day the recordings were made public.The lead actors in The Hangover Part II rebelled against his casting as a tattooist, and the cameo went to Nick Cassavetes. Gibson’s friend Jodie Foster stood by him, but when the film they shot together, The Beaver, was released in 2011, it was an abject flop. Gibson, it seemed, was all washed up.Not any more. Gibson’s grisly new war movie, Hacksaw Ridge, has just opened in the US to decent box office takings ($18.5m so far) and a raft of strong reviews. “You may have issues with the star’s past history of anger and intolerance,” wrote Peter Travers in Rolling Stone. “But you’ll have no issue with Hacksaw Ridge, a movie about a different kind of brave heart.” Could an Oscar nomination be next? It is certainly possible: on Sunday, Gibson received the best director trophy at the Hollywood film awards. Hollywood is officially back in the Mel Gibson business.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It is worth remembering at this stage that Gibson’s invective against Grigorieva was no aberration. There were his homophobic comments in a Spanish newspaper interview in 1991. There was the party in the 1990s at which, according to Winona Ryder, he “made a really horrible gay joke” about a friend of hers, and then, when he heard that she was Jewish, “said something about ‘oven dodgers’”. There was his arrest in 2006 for speeding along the Pacific Coast Highway with an open bottle of tequila in his car, whereupon he yelled at the arresting officer: “Fucking Jews ... the Jews are responsible for all the wars in the world.” And that’s before we get to the controversial statements he has made in the name of his religion, Sedevacantist Catholicism. He once said, for example, that he would go to heaven but his then-wife, an Episcopalian, wouldn’t: “It’s just not fair … but that is a pronouncement from the chair. I go with it.” How is it that the left-leaning, liberal Hollywood elite we keep hearing about has accepted him back into the fold?“Hollywood is quite good at forgiving,” one publicist and former 20th Century Fox executive tells me, on the phone from Los Angeles. “You can see that again and again. If the work is strong enough, then the inclination to forgive the artist becomes stronger, too. And people are really, really liking Hacksaw Ridge.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gibson (centre) on the set of Hacksaw Ridge. Photograph: APIt is easy to understand why. Gibson’s new film tells the true story of Desmond Doss (Andrew Garfield), a deeply Christian pacifist from rural Virginia who volunteered to serve as a medic in the second world war. Ironically, the gruesome combat scenes in Okinawa are its best part: people will go to see Gibson’s tribute to pacifism primarily so they can watch faces being blown off and intestines flying. The non-combat scenes, on the other hand, aren’t great. The Disneyfied opening sequences in Virginia are so obviously shot in Australia that I kept expecting to spot a wallaby hopping by. But that’s just quibbling. What matters about Hacksaw Ridge is that it proves that Gibson isn’t “chewing through my restraints”, to use his own phrase. He is still an eminently competent director of big, traditional Hollywood entertainment. And his films can still make money.“I don’t think people like Hacksaw Ridge for cynical reasons,” says the publicist I spoke to, “but this is Hollywood at the end of the day. It is a business.”There are also hints in Hacksaw Ridge that Gibson wants to redeem himself. The peace-loving Doss has been taken by some critics as the noble soul whom Gibson aspires to be, while Doss’s violent, angry, alcoholic, obsessively Christian father (Hugo Weaving) can be seen as a self-flagellating self-portrait. Indeed, most of Gibson’s films contain some reminder of his not-very-private private life. His only recent acting role, in the pulpily entertaining Blood Father, was as an alcoholic ex-con struggling to atone for his criminal past. The character was even a tattooist – a reference, perhaps, to the role he won and lost in The Hangover Part II. Whether or not Gibson views Blood Father or Hacksaw Ridge as a mea culpa, it is no stretch to read them that way.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gibson in Blood Father, in which he plays an alcoholic ex-con struggling to atone for his criminal past. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoHe has been penitent in his life as well his art. After his antisemitic outburst, he met Jewish community leaders. After his homophobic outburst, he appeared at an event organised by the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation. He has also donated millions of dollars to charity, gone to Alcoholics Anonymous, and apologised on chatshows to everyone from Diane Sawyer to Stephen Colbert. In 2011 – when Gibson’s star was at its lowest – he was profiled by Peter Biskind in Vanity Fair, and Lynda Obst, a producer, had this to say: “I think he can come back, but time has to pass, and he has to perform one of these rituals of expiation that are de rigueur in America … He has to do time like Martha Stewart and Mike Tyson, or go into AA and emerge a new person, or go on Oprah.” The specifics may not have been exactly right, but that, essentially, is what has happened.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Blood Father star Mel Gibson: ‘I’m used to being in the driving seat’“I believe that Mel has reset his trajectory,” says David Paul Kirkpatrick, a former president of Paramount Pictures and Weintraub Entertainment. “He has apologised. He has attempted reconciliation. He has continued to work quietly and without hoopla. What more can anyone ask? To deny him acceptance is to ignore our own humanity. We have all made mistakes.”Kirkpatrick has known Gibson for 30 years. He was charmed by the “cheerful, approachable guy” he met just before the release of Lethal Weapon, and was impressed by the thoughtful, good-humoured and loyal professional he got to know. Nor is Kirkpatrick the only one of Gibson’s old friends to defend him. In the Vanity Fair piece, Hollywood players of all races and creeds, including Richard Donner, Jodie Foster, Danny Glover and Dean Devlin, queued up to testify to his kindness and integrity. Some insisted that Gibson would say awful things he didn’t mean, just to be provocative. Others said that his drinking turned Dr Jekyll into Mr Hyde. But, wrote Biskind: “Hardly anyone has a bad word to say about him.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gibson in Lethal Weapon in 1987. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoThere are also those conservative commentators who argue that Gibson was scorned in Hollywood for his rightwing sympathies and vocal Christianity, not for what we are now obliged to think of as “locker-room talk”. If Roman Polanski can win an Oscar after being convicted of a sex offence and fleeing the country, goes the argument, then why should anyone have a problem with a few off-colour remarks?Mel Gibson: 'I've never discriminated against anyone' Kirkpatrick is convinced that Gibson’s rehabilitation will continue, with an Oscar nomination before long. “It may happen this year,” he says. “It may happen next time around. If you look at his body of work, Mel has directed three classic motion pictures – Braveheart, The Passion of the Christ, and now Hacksaw Ridge. Few directors in the history of world film have such a legacy. I hope that he still has another one or two classics within him.”Again, Kirkpatrick isn’t alone in that hope. Hollywood loves to warm its hands at the glow of a comeback story. It loves the idea that you can always have another shot at the title, as Sylvester Stallone’s Oscar nod for Creed demonstrated. If the man who wrote three instalments of The Expendables can get back into the Academy’s good books, then Gibson has nothing to worry about.