The Crown’s Claire Foy and the stars of The Night Manager have won Golden Globes in a night of British success at the Hollywood awards show.Foy was named best actress in a television drama for her portrayal of the Queen in the big-budget Netflix series about the monarch’s early reign.Tom Hiddleston was named best actor in a limited television series for his performance in BBC thriller The Night Manager, while Hugh Laurie and Olivia Colman collected awards for their supporting roles.Meryl Streep criticizes Trump at Golden Globes: 'Disrespect invites disrespect' On stage, Laurie appeared to take aim at President-elect Donald Trump as he joked that he was collecting the award from the Hollywood Foreign Press Association at the “last ever Golden Globes”.“I don’t mean to be gloomy,” he said. “It’s just it has ‘Hollywood’, ‘foreign’ and ‘press’ in the title. To some Republicans even the word ‘association’ is slightly sketchy.“I accept this award on behalf of psychopathic billionaires everywhere.”Stockport-born Foy, 32, described her award win as an “out of body experience” as she paid tribute to the Queen. “I really wouldn’t be here if it wasn’t for some extraordinary women, one is Queen Elizabeth II,” she said on stage.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tom Hiddleston poses with his award for best actor in a limited television series Photograph: Robyn Beck/AFP/Getty Images“She has been at the centre of the world the past 63 years and I think the world could do with a few more women at the centre of it if you ask me.” Ending her speech she said the award was “really nice”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Golden Globes 2017: red carpet fashion – videoThe Crown, which stars John Lithgow as Sir Winston Church and Matt Smith as the Duke of Edinburgh, was also named best television drama series.Aaron Taylor Johnson took the number of British awards to six with his surprise win for best supporting actor in a movie for his portrayal of a psychopathic drifter in Tom Ford’s Nocturnal Animals. The British actor, 26, dedicated his gong to his wife, film-maker Sam Taylor-Johnson, 49, who he described as his “soul mate”. “I want to thank my wife for being there with me and supporting me,” he said on stage. “Thank you for putting up with me. Jesus, I was not very pleasant in this role.”What we learned from the Golden Globes: Meryl Streep always wins and Ryan Gosling never fails La La Land continued its seemingly unstoppable charge toward the Oscars with a record-breaking night. It won seven awards including best acting awards for Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone and best director for Damien Chazelle, but Moonlight – which had been snubbed throughout the evening – took home best picture drama.But the standout moment of the evening came away from the awards action. Meryl Streep’s searing critique of Donald Trump’s imitation and treatment of the disabled New York Times journalist Serge Kovaleski was a sobering moment which brought a stunned silence to the usually boisterous Globes.