A blast of rock music shatters the ancient calm of the Campo San Trovaso, galvanising eight performers into a lunging, thrusting, stamping mesh of dance. Passing gondolas pause to stare, dogs bark, indignant seagulls swerve upwards into the sky as Emanuel Gat’s new work, Venice, reconfigures a classic Venetian scene.Ever since Trisha Brown choreographed work for the rooftops of New York and Merce Cunningham’s company performed in sports halls, dance has been colonising new and surprising spaces. It’s partly a way of gathering different audiences to the art form, partly exploring the ways choreography works in non-theatrical spaces – blending into streets and urban crowds, framed against buildings and skylines or interacting with interiors. Performances have been popping up in small courtyards, quiet squares, the grand salons of palazzos… The Dance Biennale in Venice has long made a theme of experimental locations. In a city so rich in rare and spectacular spaces, performances this year have been popping up in small courtyards, quiet squares, in the grand salons of palazzos. One of the most historically fascinating was Outlander, a special commission by Shobana Jeyasingh, streamed live from Venice last Saturday. It was created for the refectory of the Benedictine monastery, on the island of San Giorgio Maggiore, which for two centuries was home to Veronese’s sumptuous masterpiece The Wedding at Cana. The work was painted in 1563, during the golden era of the Venetian republic, and its ostensibly “biblical” crowd of guests and onlookers look as though they’ve come straight out of Venice itself, dressed in the richly dyed silks and brocades for which the city was famous, and reflecting the cosmopolitan mix of Ottoman merchants, black sailors, foreign princes and wandering poets who came to work and play, and who made it one of the most international cities in the world.The painting is now in the Louvre (sent there by Napoleon after he sacked Venice in 1797) but the computer-generated replica that’s been hung in its place is unexpectedly convincing, and it’s this monumental piece that formed the backdrop and inspiration for Jeyasingh’s 30-minute dance.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Percussive footwork … Sooraj Subramaniam performing Outlander by Shobana Jeyasingh. Photograph: Matteo de Fina/courtesy Fondazione Giorgio CiniOutlander was performed on a raised catwalk that ran from the centre of the painting along the length of the room, and even viewed online it created the impression that the three dancers were stepping out of the canvas. Jeyasingh’s choreography elaborated that impression by channelling the gregarious sociability of Veronese’s canvas into solos of vivid, sharp gestures and choppy rhythms, making each dancer look like a contemporary doppelganger of one of the painted figures. Sooraj Subramaniam, dancing a solo of velvety percussive footwork, delicately splayed fingers and tensile jumps, seemed in particular to be ghosted by one of Veronese’s “exotics”. But the choreography’s hybrid style of contemporary and bharatanatyam dance also marked him out as a distinctly 21st-century figure. Jeyasingh, aided by the layerings of period and modern sounds in Scanner’s accompanying score, was making her own statement about notions of identity and exoticism. The trading might of Veronese’s Venice was based on the great fortressed area of the Arsenale where the republic’s navy was built and maintained. These days, however, the Arsenale is home to more art than shipbuilding and it was in one of the old brick-walled armouries that choreographer Lara Russo presented her own choreographed musing on the theme of construction.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Glowing sculpture … Ra-Me by Lara RussoRa-Me was a trio in which three men manipulated three large brass rods through a tracery of movements, beginning with shapely balancing acts – the rods poised elegantly on feet, shoulders and backs – and evolving into the building of geometric structures. Location created its own theatre too, for as the dancers melded themselves and the rods together with calm, almost poetic deftness, the last of the evening sunshine shafted through the windows of the Sale d’Armi and burnished the choreography into glowing sculpture.Russo’s work owed a debt to Trisha Brown and to the 1960s project of exploring dance as everyday functional movement rather than rarefied technique. Camilla Monga engaged in similar terrain with 13 Objects, a work for four dancers and an array of household props that included a plunger, a large plastic spring, a bell, a ball and a baseball bat. As the dancers threw, bounced, swung and heaved the objects around the stage, their precision-timed manoeuvres developed a compelling intricacy of shape and line – a cat’s cradle of efficient collective action. Their handling of the props also created an accompanying score of thumping, ringing swooshing sounds, which in turn was counterpointed by the playing of a solo drummer, whose final thrumming crescendos drove the action from clever workmanlike competence into barely controlled chaos.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Controlled chaos … 13 Objects by Camilla Monga. Photograph: Michelle DavisAt 35 minutes, Monga’s work felt longer than its premise justified but it was carried by an implacable clarity of logic, against which the duet by Albert Quesada and Zoltán Vakulya looked like floppy self-indulgence. OneTwoThreeOneTwo was presented as a deconstruction of flamenco and its “singular magic” and it did incorporate some identifiable Spanish moves, some spiralling body action, percussive slapping and intense clutching of costume. But the traditional duende of flamenco is achieved by dancers drilling down into moments of pure rhythm and rapt improvisation, and these two dancers simply noodled and capered around the surface of their source material.Between the concept of a piece and its theatrical execution, there’s a whole minefield of difference. Yasmine Hugonnet is a choreographer with talent and ideas, but her 55-minute work La Ronde was more like a dissertation on minimalism than a dance performance. Performed in silence, the slow increments by which the four dancers moved in and out of rotating configurations of movement were less trance-like than numbing. Even though Hugonnet’s own style was evident in some pleasing asymmetries and daisy-chain loopings, this kind of theoretical ground was covered back in the 1960s by Brown, Lucinda Childs, Yvonne Rainer and others, and La Ronde had little to add. But if there are some lows in the programme, this Venice festival is always a reliably fertile mix of new and familiar names, of young and established work. I wish I’d been around to see Maguy Marin’s Duo d’Eden; the Trisha Brown night that included Planes, a vintage piece dating from 1968; and Thomas Hauert’s Zoo, a playful-sounding riff around Gershwin’s Rhapsody in Blue. With the Architecture Biennale running concurrently alongside the dance festival, to be in Venice in the summer is to feel inside a giant international workshop of creativity and thought. It’s the 21st-century version of the global marketplace that first made Venice great – and the exhilarating cosmopolitan atmosphere of the city makes Little Britain seem, today, even more of a parochial and outmoded disaster