“It’s still surreal to me that I’m sitting up here 24 years later – this has been nearly half my life,” said the X-Files creator and executive producer Chris Carter during the show’s panel at the Television Critics Association winter press tour in Pasadena, California, on Friday. The science fiction series returns to Fox this month for a limited six-episode run, 13 years after going off the air.“It is weird to be talking about this,” admitted Carter. “There’s a sense of pride just that we actually survived it. The thing about this show that was so amazing to me is that we wrote about what we were interested in – we never pandered.X-Files revival inspired by surveillance revelations, says show's creator “I think coming back we have an opportunity here – it is a chance to make good on a promise. It’s an opportunity to show that this show has more life to it.”The six episodes, which are being billed by Fox as an “event series”, reunite David Duchovny and Gillian Anderson as FBI agents Fox Mulder and Dana Scully, tasked on the show with investigating unexplained, mind-bending cases known as “X-Files”.Both Duchovny and Anderson revealed that before returning to the series, it took them a long time to embrace what The X-Files had done for their careers. Before the show made them household names, neither were particularly well known. Said Anderson: “It took me a decade to properly appreciate the opportunity that I had and how fortunate I was to play such an iconic character in a show that was iconic itself. I was very lucky and it suddenly hit me some time later.”“It took a while to recognize it as the gift that it is,” Duchovny concurred. “That’s why we’re so comfortable with coming back now.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A trailer for the new series of The X-Files.Duchovny added that ending his initial run on the show in 2002 inspired him to expand his repertoire as an actor. He has since won his second Golden Globe for his performance on the now defunct Showtime series, Californication, following his first for The X-Files in 1996. “It acted as a spur to actually to do more work – to keep expanding myself as artist … or whatever I am,” Duchovny said. “[The X-Files] was both a gift and a spur to not settle after it was done.”Anderson’s career in between the ninth season and the show’s revival has been peppered with period fare, most notably 2000’s British drama The House of Mirth, and UK-based projects, including the acclaimed BBC series The Fall. Asked to address the detour she has taken in recent years from the sci-fi genre, Anderson said: “When I wanted to be an actor, when I made that decision, the things I was more interested in doing fell more in line with what I’m doing now. I always saw myself in something like a Prime Suspect. “When I was cast in The X-Files, the fact it was science fiction was off to the left of where I saw my career choices being. Afterward, it’s been about refocusing the idea of how I wanted my career to look like. Part of it is you play a character for nine years, and it’s nice to challenge oneself to do other things.”The six new episodes, like the nine X-Files seasons and two feature films that preceded it, rely on the undeniable chemistry of its two leads. But as revealed during the panel, it was not instantly clear how the two would match up.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chris Carter discusses The X-Files at the TCA winter press tour. Photograph: David Mcnew/ReutersCarter said he only had an inkling of it when the cast did their first table reading for the series. “It wasn’t until the day they both appeared in Mulder’s office, they both lit up, and it was the same ever since,” continued Carter. “It’s one of those things you can’t manufacture, and we got really lucky.”Duchovny added that he and Anderson have now gone “beyond chemistry to history,” having known each other and worked together for over 20 years. “It’s interesting to play that.”Before Fox green-lit the show’s return to TV, Carter revealed that he had entertained the option of reuniting the characters for a third film – in fact he had written a script for the project long before news of a small-screen revival. Said Carter: “There was talk of doing a third movie, and it was casual talk, so I actually wrote a third movie just because I was interested in where that might go.” He added, however, that new episodes did not adhere to what he had written for the third film. The truth is in there: a first peek into the new X-Files As for the 10th season, Duchovny likened it to a “bento box of X-Files”, citing how it tackles a wide variety of tones, despite its limited run. Added Carter: “That was the signature of the show. We became known for our range … We did that always in the run of the original series, but in this case, there are only six episodes, so we had to do it in a much shorter arc.” Carter said he “cherry-picked” ideas from conspiracy sites that frightened him to inspire the new season. “If one of them comes true, it will be a bad thing for America and beyond.”The three said they’re eager to return for more episodes – as is Fox. Shortly following the panel, Gary Newman, the chairman and CEO of Fox Television Group, confirmed the network is on board for more, the busy schedules of its two stars permitting.The X-Files returns with a two-night premiere starting on 24 January at 10pm on Fox. In the UK it will air on Channel 5 from early February