It’s been the very definition of a good run.After seven series and 156 episodes, Alicia Florrick’s story has ended – in a way, where it began; with a well-deserved slap delivered by a rightly furious woman in an anonymous corridor. In every other way, however, the eponymous heroine of The Good Wife was in a very different place. She began, back in 2009, as the betrayed spouse of Chicago state’s attorney Peter Florrick. The show’s creators Robert and Michelle King took a question we had all asked ourselves as various sex and corruption scandals ran through US politics like a particularly virulent strain of chlamydia – governor of New York Eliot Spitzer resigned in 2008 after his penchant for prostitutes came to light, Democratic presidential nomination candidate John Edwards was revealed to have fathered a child during an affair he had while his wife was ill with cancer, to name but two contenders for the Bill Clinton Medal of Genital Dishonour. What were the wives thinking as they stood, smiling or otherwise, by their unfaithful husbands while the flashbulbs popped?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Good Wife ends, in a way, where it began … Alicia and Peter Florrick. Photograph: CBSAlicia, in season one, went back to the law career she had given up 13 years previously to look after their children. She got a job at a firm run by her pre-Peter love interest, Will Gardner, and Diane Lockhart, a formidable lawyer a generation (in career terms) above Alicia. She was a rival to younger, hungrier associates like Cary Agos and a friend to enigmatic investigator ‘n’ sex bomb Kalinda. The stage looked set to serve up a season or two of light, formulaic procedural work mixed with a lot of soapy drama, life lessons and love-triangling like every network show from LA Law to Law & Order: Franchise Cranker had taught us to expect.But it rapidly became clear that the Kings had something much more audacious in mind, for their show and for their main character. Every case of the week was as timely as Law & Order’s famous ripped-from-the-headlines approach, but it eschewed the obvious subjects. It had the occasional murderer (or was he? Colin Sweeney – yes you were. Or were you?) but it mostly went for the dryer manifestations of modernity, like Bitcoin, for-profit universities, drone surveillance and the possibilities of racial bias in software, and used them to point out the increasing limitations of the law. How The Good Wife transformed TV It also took a step away from the network universe – which is usually populated by idealists-at-heart, be they ever-so-compromised-in-fact by barely giving idealism a look-in. Motions, arguments and objections would be filed one on top of the other like the world’s most intellectually rigorous game of Snap until a judge finally grabbed the lot and ruled. It was exhilarating, but it was never about the pursuit of justice or any of that nonsense. Justice was a happy by-product, occasionally, of the Jesuitical hairsplitting and legal chicanery within and between firms, but never the goal. A good lawyer is a very specific term. It does not necessarily overlap at all with being a good person. Moral dubiety was the water they swam in like sharks, and like sharks if they stopped to think about it they would drown. And instead of romantic froth, the Kings let the destruction of a marriage play out. The pilot episode had Alicia slap Peter round the chops, but that was the closest it ever came to melodrama. The Good Wife was peopled by adults, and adults do things by increments. Alicia and Peter parted and came back to each other many times, moving between love, bitterness, hope, resentment, pragmatism and forgiveness. There was never a false note in there. It’s what two people usually do, just not on TV.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The weight given to women’s lives was glorious … Alicia Florrick and Lucca Quinn. Photograph: CBSThe storytelling, the detail, the weight given to women’s lives (and older women in particular, especially in the first five seasons – in the last two they seemed not to know what to do with Diane, which was a great and frustrating loss) was glorious. In Alicia, we had a protagonist who was that holy grail of primetime female figures – More Than One Thing. She was a lawyer, wife, mother, lover and friend – in the round, all of them, all the time, and it was great. She was good, bad, wrong, right, petty, brave, clever, stupid – she was real. And viewers coped. The writers coped. The cast coped. It was a small-screen miracle not really seen on that scale since the days of Cagney and Lacey. The finale wasn’t the show’s finest hour. Alicia’s betrayal of Diane did a disservice to the reality of the friendship that had gone before and many fans, I suspect, would have preferred her to walk away from Peter for her own sake, rather than to run towards another man. It felt like a retrograde step for a show that has always been feminist to its bones, in its delineation of a woman’s multiple roles, inner life and loves, personal and professional frustrations, the juggling she must do and the waste of talent and energy the system creates. But a misstep is just a misstep, even if it’s one we have to leave on. The Good Wife was good for nearly all its seven-year run, and for the first five it was frequently great. Goodbye, Alicia Florrick and – once you’ve had a think about what you did to Diane – good luck.