So last week a particular story broke and it’s one that sums up Britain 2016 for me. Are we all braced? Tom Hiddleston is this year’s Rear of the Year.This led me to thinking about how strange it is that everyone in this country fancies David Cameron. Bear with me here. Perhaps you think you do not want to have sex with the former prime minister. Maybe even the suggestion has got you retching on to your toast. “How on earth could you think I fancy that toffee-nosed Tory who looks like a pink spoon encased in cellophane?” you are bellowing. But let me assure you that you absolutely do and, to illustrate this, we must travel back in time to a magical land called 2005.When David Cameron became leader of the Conservative party that year, there hadn’t been an old Etonian prime minister for 40 years, not since the hat-trick of Anthony Eden, Harold Macmillan and Alec Douglas-Home. Cameron, famously, always felt most at ease among those from his own background, ideally from his old school, university and student drinking club. But as much as the public and press mocked Cameron and his cronies, something shifted during his 11 years as the head of the Tory party.When I moved to this country in 1989, the cool pose was to denigrate posh people or, if you were posh, to pretend you weren’t. If you got on the number 27 bus in London at 4.30 on a weekday afternoon in the 1990s, you would have to protect your head from all the dropped glottals raining down around you, courtesy of the St Paul’s (private) school students on their way back home to Kensington and Notting Hill. Overt displays of poshness were publicly scorned, even if the privilege that came with it was, as ever, quietly rewarded.No more. While Tony Blair’s time in office coincided with the emergence of Britpop, consisting of bands with northern or now hilariously dated mockney accents, Cameron’s cultural legacy has been a generation of actors educated at his old school or somewhere similar.Tom Hiddleston, Damian Lewis and Eddie Redmayne are old Etonians. Hugh Laurie and Dominic West, both alumnae of the same school, have enjoyed massive career renaissances. The Night Manager, the BBC show that this winter gave Britain a collective orgasm and resulted in Hiddleston being named Britain’s Best Backside, starred three actors (Hiddleston, Laurie, Tom Hollander) all educated at the same prep school.Twenty years ago, the icons of British sexiness were the working class Liam Gallagher and Kate Moss, who both had the permanent grubbiness of the mosh pit on them. Now, it’s the pink and shiny Hiddleston and Cara Delevingne, an unabashedly upper-class model, both of whom look as if they’d be utterly lost if they left the VIP area.It’s been decades since unabashed poshness was seen as so sexy in British pop culture, and a lot of this, I’m sorry to tell you, is down to Cameron. On a national subconscious level, he made cliquey privilege seem modern again, as opposed to something out of Merchant Ivory. It was downright Freudian how frantically this country wanted to fancy celebrities who resembled its leader. The question is how long this legacy of craven crushing on poshos will outlast Cameron’s own career. Poor old Hiddleston was presumably hoping that life as Taylor Swift’s boyfriend would provide him with escape from the posho box, but now he is floundering in tabloid hell. Playing the American paparazzi takes more skill than the Eton wall game, I guess.Theresa May, Margaret Thatcher: spot the difference – and the sexism | Hadley Freeman When Theresa May appointed her new cabinet, the conservative press claimed the elites had been “brushed aside”. The truth is more complicated. No doubt, over the next few years, poshness will start to seem less desirable. But there was an honesty to the trend, in its acknowledgement that it’s those born into money who are in charge. There was no self-deluding mockney accent.When that trend changes again, we can revert to pretending that privilege is uncool. But with the Tories in power for the foreseeable future, it is getting only harder for working-class kids to go to university and get internships; those from the fancy schools will still disproportionately dominate the public sphere, whether or not they’re still seen as the pinnacle of sexiness. And that’s not about fashion. That’s politics.