   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Watch the trailer for Shakespeare SolosAdrian Lester returns to the role of Hamlet and Roger Allam takes on King Lear for the first time in a major new series of Guardian videos, launched today. Shakespeare Solos, a project to mark the 400th anniversary of the playwright’s death, brings together a lineup of outstanding actors who each perform a key speech from the plays. The first six videos also star Eileen Atkins, Ayesha Dharker, Joanna Vanderham and David Morrissey.Lester gained acclaim when he played Hamlet for director Peter Brook in a stripped-back production at the Bouffes du Nord theatre in Paris in 2000 and the Young Vic in London the following year. For Shakespeare Solos, he delivers the “to be or not to be” soliloquy which the actor describes as “Shakespeare at his best”. Lester said he hardly had to relearn the soliloquy before filming the video as he and Brook had spent “so long getting it in the blood” for the stage production. Lester, who is currently appearing in Red Velvet at the Garrick theatre in London, said the speech captures the “quiet, profound nature” of Hamlet’s despair and that it is also “an intellectual outpouring, because Hamlet is a very bookish person. But at the heart of it is a very fundamental question about whether he should live or die.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Adrian Lester as HamletFor Lester, playing Shakespeare on camera was “quite liberating, because the complexity of all of those thoughts can be brought right down for the screen. You don’t have to do anything but believe what you’re saying … rather than turning front and centre [on stage] and firing it down to the audience. The complexity of thought has a delicacy to it. You have to be careful about it – at times, it can be slightly destroyed when you’re concentrating on technically making sure the audience can hear you and delivering the kind of bombast required.”    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Roger Allam as King LearWhile Lester’s solo found him returning to a familiar speech, Roger Allam’s gave him the opportunity to play a part he has long desired a crack at: King Lear, which is often described as a mountain of a role. One stormy night, when he was playing Falstaff at Shakespeare’s Globe in London in 2010, Allam surprised audiences by suddenly going into Lear’s “Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks” speech. He performs those lines for Shakespeare Solos.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eileen Atkins as EmiliaThe videos, directed by Dan Susman, have been mostly shot at the Guardian’s multimedia studio but Atkins was filmed on location at a restaurant for her performance as Emilia from Othello. We are put in Desdemona’s place as Atkins intimately addresses the camera: “But I do think it is their husbands’ faults if wives do fall.” Emilia is one of the characters Atkins is currently playing in her one-woman show at the Sam Wanamaker Playhouse.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Joanna Vanderham as JulietJoanna Vanderham, who played Desdemona for the RSC last year, chose lines from the balcony scene in Romeo and Juliet for her solo, which was recorded by candlelight. “I auditioned for Juliet at high school and I missed out,” laughs the star of the BBC1 drama The Paradise, who has recently appeared in the West End in The Dazzle. “Romeo and Juliet is such a beautiful play. The strength of their love is so admirable. It took me a while to get my head around that depth of love and to accept that it can exist. In her speech you can feel how many different thoughts she’s got going at one time. It’s quite incredible how Shakespeare can turn his hand to any age, any gender, and capture them absolutely perfectly. It is a 13-year-old girl’s mind: all these different thoughts that come out in a stream.”    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Morrissey as Richard IIIDavid Morrissey, who was a member of the RSC in the late 1980s and is currently starring in Hangmen in the West End, was cast as Richard III for his solo and delivers the scheming Richard’s opening speech. While the majority of the videos offer a one-off opportunity to see these actors try out new roles, Ayesha Dharker’s solo also offers a taste of one of this year’s most anticipated Shakespeare productions. She recorded Titania’s “these are the forgeries of jealousy” speech from A Midsummer Night’s Dream. Dharker takes up the role of Titania on stage in Stratford later this month. That production will tour the UK from March to June, with local amateur companies joining the RSC’s actors on stage.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ayesha Dharker as Titania