Earlier this summer, Californians Brad and Amy Herzog came up with an idea for what they’re calling “a picture book for adults about a man-child”: D Is for Dump Trump: An Anti-Hate Alphabet.“S is for a silver spoon, / right from the beginning. / You can’t start far ahead, / then claim that you’ve been winning,” Brad writes in one of his 26 poems (the book is illustrated by Amy). The letter M, he writes, “is for misogyny. / For years, Trump has shown / a disregard for women / in his talk, his tweets, his tone.”D Is for Dump Trump is part of a small but burgeoning new genre: satirical books about Donald Trump. Since the Republican nominee announced his candidacy for US president, a spate of books has popped up, from both self-publishers and big houses.There are parody picture books, like the just-published A Child’s First Book of Trump, by comedian Michael Ian Black: “The beasty is called an American Trump. / Its skin is bright orange, its figure is plump. / Its fur so complex you might get enveloped. / Its hands though are, sadly, underdeveloped.” Illustrator and filmmaker Guy Larsen’s Donald Trump and the Wig of Evil about the mogul’s distinctive hair being secretly sentient – and bad: “Donald was lovely, so misunderstood. Kind to all races … that hair though … that hair was no good.”And then there’s eyebrow-raising adult fiction, like Richard Hine’s novel Kim Kardashian Saves the World (After President Trump Nearly Ends It), or Elijah Daniel’s erotic gay novel Trump Temptation: The Billionaire and the Bellboy - sample line: “The door creaked open and there he was, handsome as ever, like a giant melting fat carrot with fake hair.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Illustration from A Child’s First Book of Trump by Michael Ian Black. Photograph: Simon & SchusterThe Herzogs launched a Kickstarter in late June, looking to raise $7,500 (£5,700) to help publish D Is for Dump Trump. A day later, they found their contract as spokespeople promoting the Recreational Vehicle Industry Association had been terminated, after an industry journalist wrote that they might use their work to market the book.“The RVIA also scrubbed clean six years of completely apolitical blog posts that I had written on their behalf. They’re gone. It’s as if we never existed,” said Brad, who has written dozens of books for adults and children. All because we wrote a satirical picture book criticising Donald Trump. It’s pretty chilling.”In a statement, the RVIA has said that it suspended the Herzogs’ tour “based solely on the tone and content of the Herzogs’ book”, and that “regardless of the candidate or political affiliation depicted, we would have arrived at the same decision”.Despite the controversy – or perhaps because of it – the Herzogs’ D is for Dump Trump Kickstarter is doing well. Better than well – with more than a week to go, the Herzogs have raised almost $37,000 for their book, more than five times what they were looking for. With 52 backers the day they were fired, the Herzogs now have more than 850 pre-orders from supporters all around the world, as far away as Norway and the Netherlands. Aside from the Herzog’s personal plight, the appetite for poking fun at the tycoon is not restricted to the country where Trump is looking to take power.“We were inspired to create D Is for Dump Trump due to our disgust at Trump’s method of scapegoating entire segments of the population, inflaming the uninformed, attacking freedom of expression, and responding in a reactionary manner. And, in a case of tragic irony, we feel those were exactly the tactics used against us,” said Brad. “We anticipated a strong response because there are so many people out there who share our sentiments about a demagogue running for president, but upon discovering that, we lost our primary source of income – simply because we found a creative way to express the courage of our convictions, people from all over the world have turned our project into something of a movement.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Guy Larsen’s Donald Trump and the Wig of Evil. Photograph: Guy LarsenSo why have we not seen the same creative output for say Bernie Sanders, or Hillary Clinton? Aside from any political differences between the authors and Trump, the candidate’s self-regard makes him the ideal fodder for comedy.“Trump is a golden, racist egg for anybody who wants to produce political satire,” said Guy Larsen, who originally filmed himself reading his picture book Donald Trump and the Wig of Evil before landing a publishing deal. “There were some diehard Trump fans very pissed off in the YouTube comments, but that proved the audience was bigger than my aunt and a couple of friends I’d forced to watch it. It’s always a positive sign when there’s some negative feedback,” he said.Trump, says Larsen, is a man who is “really charismatic, incredibly scary, and takes himself far too seriously, which is why irony is the perfect takedown for him.“Seeing that he really hates people making fun of him just makes it better.”