This week saw the release of the first trailer for Sky, HBO and Canal Plus’s The Young Pope, dangling a tantalising vision of Jude Law as the fictional Pope Pius XIII: smoking, possibly buttock-flashing ... and American. But how does he compare to the best previous screen popes?Ewan McGregor (Angels & Demons, 2009)Technically questionable, since he’s forced to kill himself immediately after his election, but even as merely a proto-pope, McGregor’s Father Patrick McKenna scores highly for being one of the very few screen Catholics to leap out of an exploding helicopter above the Vatican.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Proto pope ... Ewan McGregor as Father Patrick McKenna. Photograph: Everett/REX/ShutterstockJohanna Wokalek (Pope Joan, 2009)Hair chopped and breasts tightly strapped like Gwyneth Paltrow in Shakespeare in Love, Wokalek starts this controversial fact-bender in disguise as a boy, but is soon overturning dogma and shagging hot men in lakes as she plays the woman who, most historians agree, probably wasn’t actually pope for a few years in the 9th century. Not all the critics liked it: “Extremely limited vision,” huffed L’Avvenire, the Italian bishops’ conference in-house paper.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fact-bender ... Johanna Wokalek as Pope Joan. Photograph: Moviestore/Rex/ShutterstockRaf Vallone (The Godfather Part III, 1990)Chunky, avuncular and rocking a black cassock, heavy chain and slicked-hair look that gives him a weird sort of Barry White sexiness, Vallone does his best pontiff-icating before becoming John Paul I: as Cardinal Lamberto, he calmly encourages Michael Corleone to confess to killing his brother. After achieving full papacy, he’s murdered by a swindling archbishop, in a nod to conspiracy theories surrounding the sudden death of the real John Paul I in 1978.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Channellling Barry White ... Raf Vallone in The Godfather Part III. Photograph: Paramount PicturesJeremy Irons (The Borgias, 2011)A solid choice to play legendary 15th-century lad Pope Alexander VI: nobody does bored, posh and randy better than Irons, so he helmed Showtime’s lush potboiler with some assurance, juggling fornication, church politics and sonorous speeches that would have been ludicrous in less cultured hands.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bored, posh and randy ... Jeremy Irons in The Borgias. Photograph: Everett/Rex/ShutterstockGene Greytak (Picket Fences, 1995)Greytak had a long career as a Pope John Paul II lookalike, popping up throughout the 80s and 90s, usually without speaking, often in a dream sequence. He chases a pram down the steps during the Untouchables spoof in The Naked Gun 33 1/3; he curses Ally McBeal during one of her cute dissociative episodes. Greytak’s big moment came in US crime drama Picket Fences: when a man is shot dead during a popemobile parade, the pope is the only witness.  Go-to pope ... Gene Greytak as Pope John Paul II.Rex Harrison (The Agony and the Ecstasy, 1965)“Michaelangelo will paint the ceiling!” Harrison is the grumpy Pope Julius II, who has the devil of a job getting pesky Michaelangelo (Charlton Heston) to do up the ceiling of the Sistine chapel as instructed. Less about the complex majesty of the Holy See and more a metaphor for homeowners struggling with unreliable tradesmen.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rex Harrison as Santa Claus ... sorry, Pope Julius II. Photograph: Moviestore/Rex/Shutterstock