The Walking Dead feels like a man’s show. Just like in real life, most of the leaders are men, most of the aggressors are men, and many of those who survived, you guessed it, are in possession of a Y chromosome. The best part about this phenomenal episode was that it really was a story about women, not only Carol and Maggie but the three women that took them captive. Yes, they’re all in the service of different figures of the patriarchy (it will take more than the apocalypse to kill that) but this hour was truly about the issues and concerns of what we used to call the gentler sex. I’m not so sure I’d still call them that after watching Maggie rig a zombie booby trap so another woman could get her cheek peeled off like a Fruit Roll-Up from its plastic. ‘Oh. You’re one of those’One of the greatest miscarriages of justice in the entire world is that Melissa McBride, who plays Carol, has never been nominated for an Emmy. (OK, maybe not the greatest, but you know what I mean.) She plays one of the most interesting, turbulent characters on all of television who not only has to deliver a wide range of emotion but also hack apart zombies and blow up entire compounds full of cannibals. Give this woman a statue already!The Walking Dead: season six, episode 12 – Not Tomorrow Yet  Carol deserves an award, too. She started acting as soon as Paula and her crew took Carol and Maggie to a safe house. When they got tied up and Carol got her hands on some rosary beads and started freaking out, we all knew that she had some kind of plan in mind. That is always Carol’s greatest weapon, misdirecting people and getting them to underestimate her and then turning around and snapping their necks where they stand. The same thing happened here: she bided her time, making all the women think she was a “scared little bird” when really she was the biggest badass in the room. What was so heart-wrenching was that she was using real events to do it, bringing up her abusive husband and losing her daughter. She showed a reluctance to kill, which made them think she was weak and gave her just the opening she needed to free herself and Maggie.‘You’re not the good guys. You should know that’ Carol definitely made a big move by telling their captors that Maggie was pregnant. I’m still not sure if that was exactly part of the plan, but she definitely seems to be protective of the child. At first, when she told the smoker that she would hurt the baby, I thought it was a way for Carol to get some sympathy for the both of them, to get the Saviors to show some compassion and not kill them quite yet. However, when they were out to break free and Carol didn’t want to kill the last two women, she shot Molly, who tried to slice the bun out of Maggie’s oven. The protection wasn’t a ruse: Carol really wanted to keep it alive.One of my favorite scenes was when Molly, who said the line above, was interrogating Maggie. I think that was a key component of this season: Rick and his crew realizing that if they continued on this path, they would be just as bad as everyone else. There have been some who have offered alternatives – namely Morgan and Gregory, the leader of Hilltop – but neither of those are considered viable by the residents of Alexandria. Maggie also had a hard time eliciting empathy from Molly, who lost a baby of her own. She said she was sorry, but Molly didn’t believe her. She could not find a way to bond with Maggie as fellow mothers because everything in the world was set against them. Where they should be allies, they were set apart as adversaries, up until the end, when they had to kill each other.‘You’re supposed to want to be the coffee beans’Just as Melissa McBride needs an Emmy, so does Alicia Witt, who was absolutely amazing as Paula (and equally fantastic as Cybill Shepherd’s daughter on the late sitcom Cybill). All of her speeches to Carol and Maggie about how they need to be stronger in order to survive and how the only point of living any more is to keep standing were what some of the smarter Alexandrians (like Maggie and Michonne) were starting to fight against. They could not believe in Paula’s blind form of survivalism any more and needed to start working toward building a civilization. Paula thought that Maggie was crazy to get “knocked up”.Maggie countered with the perfect: “Was it ever smart to get knocked up?” I absolutely loved Paula’s speech inspired by the inspirational email about the woman who wanted to give up. Her mother put a carrot, an egg, and some coffee in boiling water. Did she want to go into difficulty hard and come out soft like the carrot, go in soft and come out hard like the egg, or be transformed into something better by the experience, like the coffee? Paula said that she would be “me, but better. I lost everything but it made me stronger.” Like Carol, she had to turn on the man who was keeping her back (in this case, her boss) and was finally given the opportunity to be someone great after the world ended.But it wasn’t as great as she thought. She is someone who exploits weakness and sees no value in human life. When Carol and Maggie gave her the opportunity to run, she didn’t take it, instead forcing a confrontation with Carol. Paula thinks she can only win if someone else loses. Carol wants them all to win; she wants to put an end to her killing. When Paula tried to use that to destroy Carol, Carol was forced to kill her.‘Sweetie. Sweetie. We are all Negan’After what happened with Morgan and the Wolf he was keeping in the basement as well as Sam, the boy she literally frightened to death, Carol has been trying to transform herself. She was the scared little bird at first and she shed that to become the fiercest member of her tribe. Like the egg, she went in soft and came out hard. But it took meeting her match in Paula to start chipping away at that hardness. Like the coffee beans, she is now transforming into someone who is strong enough to use force to protect herself, but compassionate enough that she won’t do it without cause. She is the ideal of a post-apocalyptic woman. Now she just needs to find a society that will accept her. It was trial by fire for both her and Maggie, who finished off their captors and their back-up by luring them on to the “kill floor” and setting it ablaze, walking away as they pounded on the door and screamed for help. When Glenn rescued Maggie, who just 10 minutes before had beaten someone to death with her own hands, she said: “I can’t any more.” Both of them have seen their fair share of death, and they need to find a better solution. This is contrasted with the quote above, which we heard several times in the episode. It sort of felt like the rallying cry for the hacker group Anonymous or the tagline of a crazy cult. What the Saviors were getting at is that everyone has to be a murderous maniac in order to survive these days. Not only are all the Saviors like Negan, but everyone is. If they have made it this far, they’ve compromised so many things. Maggie and Carol are no longer willing to compromise, and I’m curious how that will work in the new world order. 