While the obvious disadvantage of living in Northern Ireland during the Troubles was the risk of being killed by terrorists, a bonus was that incidents of other murder were very low. The police and army presence on the streets made homicide harder. This statistical paradox makes even more extraordinary the true story dramatised in ITV’s new four-parter The Secret. Back in 1991, when Northern Ireland was effectively a militarised state, Colin Howell, a dentist in Castlerock, managed to murder his wife and his lover’s husband, who was an officer in the Royal Ulster Constabulary, then convince the cops that the pair had died in a suicide pact. Only deep into the peace process, in 2009, did it emerge what really happened. What makes the drama even more startling is that the Northern Irish dentist’s killings, though not terrorist-related, were religiously motivated. Howell – played by James Nesbitt with a brave toupee and a smug sanctimony – was a devout Baptist worshipper, who met his mistress, Hazel Buchanan, through her work as a Sunday school teacher. The dentist, in Stuart Urban’s script, consistently invokes divine will to keep his wavering lover on side, convincing her that first their adultery and then the disposal of their spouses is “what God wants”. When the infidelity is discovered by the church elders, there is a tremendous scene of Baptist marital guidance, in which Jason Watkins as the authoritative pastor instructs the cuckolded partners in the importance of sexual satisfaction between husband and wife. As viewers will discover later, the killer’s faith also played a part in the eventual discovery of the crimes.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Fall: the series, starring Gillian Anderson, was set in Northern Ireland. Photograph: BBC/Artists Studio/Steffan Hill The Secret, which resembles a darkly comic Ulster version of The Affair, should give the recently underperforming ITV drama department a hit for viewers who find The Durrells too twee. But, as well as telling a compelling story on screen, the series is also part of a striking dramatic narrative offscreen. Here’s a quiz question. The Secret, Game of Thrones, Line of Duty and The Fall are all very different types of TV drama. But what do they have in common? They’re all filmed in Northern Ireland, encouraged by grants and production facilities made available as part of the post-Troubles reconstruction of the region. Two of the shows – Line of Duty and Game of Thrones – use the urban or rural landscapes to create an unspecified northern city and a fantasy universe, while the other pair – The Secret and The Fall – are specifically set there. The first series of The Fall made specific reference to the fact that serial killers, except for paramilitaries, were a new phenomenon in Belfast. And now The Secret continues the genre of non-terrorist Northern Ireland crime fiction that has been one of the unexpected products of peace.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   In Line of Duty, Belfast stood in for an unspecified northern city. Photograph: Mark Bourdillon/BBC/World Productions Though immensely pleasurable viewing, The Secret does raise concerns over the use of recent tragedy as the basis for entertainment. Both Howell and Hazel Stewart (the former Mrs Buchanan, now using the surname of her second husband who, in another bizarre twist, was also a policeman), are now serving life terms, and it can be argued that being the subject of a factional drama that makes them seem ridiculous and evil is just another part of the punishment for today’s transgressors. My queasiness comes from the fact that the killers had a dozen children between them, and these innocent parties will presumably suffer distressing renewed attention as a result of their parents’ crimes being popularised nationwide.  On balance, though, the story behind The Secret was too compelling not to tell and the series confirms the new, more or less peaceful, Northern Ireland – in shows across the BBC, ITV and HBO – as a powerhouse of TV drama.