There was a mixed reception for Zero K, the latest offering from the great American novelist Don DeLillo. Alex Preston in the Observer could hardly have been more enthusiastic, describing the book as “a demonstration of the way a great novelist moves one or two steps ahead of the real, constructing pathways into the future”, and hailing it as “certainly DeLillo’s best since Underworld”. In the Financial Times, Jason Cowley, too, found it enjoyable. “One should not read DeLillo for his realism but for his searching intelligence, his radiant setpieces and cool, measured sentences, as well as his sense of the absurd. He’s a serious writer but also a funny one.” His humour passed the Sunday Times’ reviewer Theo Tait by, however. “There’s no doubt that DeLillo is a wonderful writer and an interesting thinker … However, like many nonfanatical DeLillo admirers, I regret the rather lifeless, humourless drift of his later work – its brushed steel surfaces, and brushed steel characters – and look back with nostalgia to White Noise, his 1985 campus novel. Back then, he was still bewilderingly smart and perceptive, but he was tender and funny, too … Like much of DeLillo’s later work, Zero K is impressive without being involving, and more quotable than readable.” For John Sutherland, in the Times, it was “a rich reading experience – but so depressing the publisher should supply a rusty razor blade with every copy it sells”.Reviewers agreed that Alexander Masters’ A Life Discarded – a biography of an unknown person based on diaries found in a skip – was a laudable project, but diverged on how successful it was as a book. In the Spectator, Robert Douglas-Fairhurst thought it “playful, unsettling and altogether compelling”, with Masters’ style “pin-sharp and generously open to eccentricity”. But Rachel Cooke, writing in the Observer, questioned Masters’s lackadaisical investigative technique – why didn’t he find out the writer’s identity sooner? As “the red herrings pile up whiffily … the reader scents desperation … in A Life Discarded, he has allowed his whimsical side to get out of control.” In the Financial Times, Melissa Harrison felt that “it’s perhaps stretching credulity to believe that the revelations, when they eventually come, were not reached sooner by Masters and held back for the purpose of narrative suspense.” For Melissa Katsoulis in the Times, however, the mystery of the diarist’s identity became “as tense as a thriller, with false starts and red herrings obstructing our knowledge of who this person is and how their story ends up … a bizarre, engrossing, affectionate book that is a triumph on every level.”“All at Sea is an exemplary memoir,” wrote Helen Davies in the Sunday Times of the book by Decca Aitkenhead, in which she recounts her husband Tony’s death by drowning. “The writing is acute, penetrating and at times extremely profound … And yet, however magnificent and powerful the book, you know it pales in comparison with the loss.” Kate Kellaway, in the Observer, found the memoir “impossible to forget: I finished it in one sitting – in a stunned, empathetic trance. Its indifference to its audience might come across as a rebuff (should one be reading at all?) but its emotional exactitude makes it remarkable.” For Charlotte Edwardes, in the Evening Standard, “Her ache for honesty is searing at times but the overwhelming truth is that Aitkenhead has produced a work of art.”