Four candles burned at the back of the altar as grandees from the golden age of British television paid their respects to Ronnie Corbett. The entertainer died last month aged 85 having been diagnosed with a suspected form of motor neurone disease. His funeral, which was attended by family and friends, was held on Monday at the St John the Evangelist church near his home in Shirley, Croydon, south London. The candle display referenced one of Corbett’s most popular sketches with Ronnie Barker, known as Four Candles – or Fork Handles.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michael Parkinson at the funeral for Ronnie Corbett. Photograph: Nils Jorgensen/Rex/ShutterstockBarry Cryer, Sir Michael Parkinson, Harry Hill, Jimmy Tarbuck, Rob Brydon and David Walliams were among the mourners. In a tribute during the service, Corbett’s daughter Emma said: “This is undoubtedly the hardest thing I’ve ever had to do. And yet it is also a huge privilege.” She joked that the family had borrowed ideas from orders of service her mother had collected over the years, adding that the quote “Grief is the price we pay for love” was taken from Sir David Frost’s service. “My dad was truly loved. Yes, by the world – and as a family we have felt that with so many kind gestures and flowers and thoughts. But however today is not about Ronnie Corbett the national treasure - it’s about Ronnie Corbett the husband, the father, the grandfather and the friend. Ronnie Corbett – a life in pictures “He was loved and cherished and it is an enormous honour to be his daughter. “His integrity, kindness, style and grace were ever present and never left him, even in death,” she said. The star’s daughter joked about his height. “For someone known for being short, he would stand next to me seven foot tall,” she said. After the ceremony, Parkinson said the service “hit exactly the right note. It was the least showbizzy funeral I’ve been to.” Corbett “wasn’t a very showbiz person in that sense. He was unaffected by fame and recognition. It didn’t bother him.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Four candles on the altar during the funeral service of Ronnie Corbett. Photograph: Gareth Fuller/PAParkinson added that Corbett was “a serious man, he was an intelligent man”, and was a “stickler” for manners. The former chatshow host said that when comedians die “all that remains is the echoes of forgotten laughter”. He said of his friend Corbett: “What you saw is what you got. He was modest, self-effacing, he was a brilliant comic, very good actor too, very good comedy actor. And as a guy to be a friend of, he was just unbeatable.” Before the service, Tarbuck said Corbett was a “great guy” and added that the atmosphere would be “very sad for the family and for all his friends”.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Entertainer David Walliams at Ronnie Corbett’s funeral. Photograph: Nils Jorgensen/Rex/ShutterstockHe went on: “He was much loved. Very correct guy, very funny fellow. Disciplinarian – I think that was because he was an officer in the RAF. But he was great company. He was a terrific laugh. Dreadful giggler. He used to get me at it when we worked together.” Prompting cheers from mourners nearby, Tarbuck said: “Much loved, and should have been knighted.”