Loaded 10pm, Channel 4There is a welcome whiff of Mike Judge’s profane tech spoof Silicon Valley to Channel 4’s latest sitcom, a sharply written and appealingly performed examination of the fraying friendship between four beta males who become absurdly rich when their hit smartphone game is acquired by a ruthless US firm. The lads have barely bought their first Ferrari when a Social Network-style lawsuit threatens to bring the Cat Factory empire to its furry knees. Graeme VirtuePanorama: What Facebook Knows About You 7.30pm, BBC1Facebook: a harmless way to stay in touch with acquaintances you can’t be bothered to see, or a trillion-tentacled devil burrowing into our sleepy heads, prepping us for a dystopia where Mark Zuckerberg legally owns our thoughts? Warnings about how much data Facebook harvests have so far gone unheeded, mainly because users are unaware of it; this investigation might help. Whether anyone will care enough to quit is another matter. Jack SealeTonight: The Leader Interviews – Tim Farron 8pm, ITVWe are assured that Theresa May will take time out from her tour of the Scout huts of Scotland to face Julie Etchingham. But this series of election encounters begins with Lib Dem Tim Farron, who will presumably explain his rather tortuous position on gay rights and ponder Brexit. On Thursday, Ukip’s much-travelled Paul Nuttall will be describing the moment he stuck a pin in a map and found himself standing in Boston and Skegness. Phil HarrisonFood Unwrapped 8.30pm, Channel 4This new series begins with Jimmy Doherty reporting on a rise in sea temperatures, which could mean that in the future we will be eating squid and chips rather than cod or haddock. Elsewhere, Kate Quilton looks into where our multivitamins come from and how much we really need them, while the charmless Matt Tebbutt visits Cornwall’s leading producer of clotted cream and an algae farm in Israel. Ben ArnoldMind the Age Gap 10pm, Channel 5How do we bridge the schisms in our politics and culture? Telly has long since concluded that the most robust method is to put 12 strangers in a house and film them arguing. So here, millennials, who can’t talk properly and constantly Instagram their own breasts, must live with pensioners, who think their country has been stolen by gay migrants. Before the hugging and learning, expect plenty of those reality TV rows where both sides argue infuriatingly badly. JSTeachers 11pm, Comedy CentralSecond series of the likable sitcom and a fresh school year beckons, with the tutors juddering out of holiday mode to return to academia. Principal Pearson’s penchant for change doesn’t end with his new teeth, as he ushers the educators towards unfamiliar territory, sending Cecilia to teach an art class contained within a grocery cart, Deb excommunicated to a portable building and Chelsea sentenced to serve the state’s most unforgiving under-nines. Mark Gibbings-JonesDefeating Isis: The Impossible Coalition 9pm, PBS AmericaLaurent Richard’s documentary sets out to answer what seems an obvious question: how has Islamic State, whose numbers are estimated in the low tens of thousands of lightly armed, trained-on-the-job guerrillas, survived against the world’s biggest and best-equipped militaries? It’s the latest iteration of the ancient conundrum of asymmetric warfare, in which superior strength is no guarantee of a swift victory. Andrew MuellerFilm choiceFive Easy Pieces (Bob Rafelson, 1970) 4.10pm, Sky Cinema GreatsAn early Jack Nicholson hit that marked him for superstardom. His feckless wandering minstrel Bobby Eroica Dupea is born of a well-to-do musicians’ family but prefers working the oil fields to playing the piano. Karen Black and Susan Anspach are the women he scorns, but the core of it is in the scene with his sick, silent father on a windy hilltop. An achingly poignant modern American tale. Paul HowlettLive sportTennis: The Mutua Madrid Open The opening day of the men’s clay-court tournament. 11am, Sky Sports 3IPL cricket: Sunrisers Hyderabad v Mumbai Indians Noisy T20 from Rajiv Gandhi International Cricket stadium. 3pm, Sky Sports 2Premier League football: Chelsea v Middlesbrough Chelsea approach the title as Boro approach the drop. 7pm, Sky Sports 1