What is it? A musical romantic comedy. No, wait, come back. I promise it’s good.Why you’ll love it: After a chance encounter with a childhood sweetheart, New York lawyer Rebecca Bunch decides to quit her job and move to the middle of nowhere to win him back. This is the plot of a million romcom movies, and they always play out in exactly the same way. There are meet cutes and hijinks and adorable quirks aplenty, and everything culminates in a big climactic moment at a wedding or an airport, and everyone ends up happy forever.This is also the plot of Crazy Ex-Girlfriend. However, this is an 18-episode television series, so nothing can be quite that neat. All the usual behaviour that tends to propel a romcom – the obsessions, the rash decisions, the disregard for other people’s feelings – cannot simply be brushed aside. Instead, Crazy Ex-Girlfriend goes in deep on them.Bunch is in no way a well woman. On the surface she’s funny and pretty and a shade away from being a Manic Pixie Dream Girl, but deep down she’s lost and traumatised. She leaps from empty epiphany to empty epiphany, and lies relentlessly to herself as she ruins scores of lives in her pursuit of a hopeless dream. It would be tragic if it weren’t so funny.It’s almost miraculous to see how well Crazy Ex-Girlfriend combines knockabout comedy and full-blown melodrama. The juxtaposition is never jarring, and the contrasting styles never detract from each other. This is almost entirely thanks to creator, writer and star Rachel Bloom, for whom this is undoubtedly a star-making vehicle. She is never anything short of electrifying; manic when she needs to be, subtle when she needs to be and filling every song with a full-beam, show-pony, stage-school commitment that isn’t often seen on TV.About those songs. Yes, there are songs in this show. Yes, I was suspicious of them at first too, on the basis that all musicals are the work of the devil himself. But they’re actually pretty good genre pastiches that almost always hit their intended targets. They are slightly reminiscent of Flight of the Conchords, and a comparison to Flight of the Conchords can never be a bad thing.Crazy Ex-Girlfriend is already appearing on Best Of lists, and it’s not hard to see why. It’s a spiritual cousin to Netflix’s Stranger Things, in that it enjoys taking its time to unpack some of the knottiest tropes and conventions of genre cinema. Where Stranger Things concerns itself solely with 1980s horror, Crazy Ex-Girlfriend is fixated on romantic comedies. And the whole thing is executed beautifully. It feels like a very authentic exploration of depression and anxiety, which isn’t something you’d normally say about a day-glo musical TV show with animated opening titles.This is the time to get in, because Crazy Ex-Girlfriend has already won awards. Bloom has won a Golden Globe and a Critics’ Choice award for her powerhouse portrayal of Bunch and, while the show has been shut out of all the major Emmy categories this year, it still feels like the start of something. Everyone else loves Crazy Ex-Girlfriend. You should too.Where: Netflix.Length: One series of 18 40-minute episodes.Stand-out episode: Episode 11, That Text Was Not Meant for Josh!, which contains a laceratingly brutal ode to self entitled You Stupid Bitch.If you liked Crazy Ex-Girlfriend, watch: Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt, Lady Dynamite (both Netflix).