The cloth covering fell and the actor Dame Barbara Windsor looked seriously at a portrait of a serious woman.“Wow, I look like a woman,” she said on first viewing of her newly unveiled portrait by Dan Llywelyn Hall. “I’m not saying I could have looked like a man - but she looks like a proper woman, she knows who she is and what she can do. I love it.”All her long life since she first bounced on to a stage as a child, through her giggling appearances in the Carry On films and her 21 years as the only cheerful character in EastEnders – though the tear-jerking plot lines get them all in the end, cancer is about to carry Peggy Mitchell out of the Queen Vic forever – she has been portrayed as a tiny, chirpy, blonde airhead.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Barbara Windsor portrait by Dan Llywelyn Hall. Photograph: Richard Stephen Brewis Photography/Dan Llywelyn HallThis, she said, was the first picture of her that her mother would have liked. “God bless her, she was a cockney snob. I’ve been in the business since I was 13, and she didn’t like the Carry On films, she liked it when I was in theatre. She would think that painting was proper.”She admitted it was probably not an image the public would like as much, just as she worried she would be thought too serious and stuck up after she was made a dame in March.“You do put on a front, people don’t want to see me walking down the road like this. If I did, people would ask me what the matter is. The public do talk to me, people walk along the street with me, and I thought when I was made a dame they wouldn’t talk to me, but they do, they are still exactly the same. “I was scared to go out a little bit, but I’m still Babs, I’m still ‘‘ello’, I’m still ‘get out of my pub’.” There are already three photographic portraits of Windsor in the National Portrait Gallery collection but she said this was the first “proper” portrait.It was painted where it was unveiled, in the private rooms above L’Escargot restaurant in Soho, a hangout since the 1920s for theatre types from both sides of the curtain.Both artist and subject recalled the sittings as much less serious than the finished portrait: “We were rabbiting on about anything and everything,” Windsor said. “He’s worse than I am.”She is under a strict vow of silence to the BBC not to speak about her exit from Eastenders – “I’m sorry, it’s not like me, normally I’ll chat away about anything” – that is currently being filmed. This time it’s final: having survived several bouts of screen illness, several husbands, and countless surrounding murders, assaults and police raids, she is now filming the scenes in which she really does leave forever. Death will finally silence Peggy Mitchell.Llewelyn Hall said Windsor was a genuine national treasure, an obvious person to add to his gallery of Great Britons, which already includes portraits of Lily Cole, Michael Palin, Amy Winehouse and the Queen – “she was even chattier,” he recalled.The complete collection of his 20 portraits will go on display at the Virgin Money Lounges in Haymarket and Eagle Place from 9 May, raising money for the Victoria Cross Trust and the War Memorials Trust.