My friend Andrew Knight, who has died aged 66 of renal failure, was a musician, singer and entrepreneur. He excelled in playing Irish music, and accompanied his plaintive singing on the English concertina. He played with his brothers, Christopher and Patrick, especially with Patrick, an expert on the wooden flute, with whom he also ran a computer firm on Tyneside. When they sold the business in the mid-1990s they moved to the Isle of Man, where they played in sessions around the island.Although he spent most of his life in the north, Andrew delivered his acerbic wit with a strong southern accent. He was born and brought up in Banstead, Surrey, son of Betty (nee Blunn), a housewife, and John Knight, a Crown agent and keen collector of folksong. Andrew attended Reigate grammar school, then went to Newcastle University to study chemical engineering. He learned to play the guitar and managed to fail all his second-year exams. Undaunted, he left university, bought a secondhand concertina – you could pick them up pretty cheaply in junk shops at the time – and soon managed to become very proficient.While working in the early 1970s on early computing projects for the National Coal Board, he found some of his fellow workers were getting paid far more than he was. When he inquired why, they said they were “contracted in”, so he left and returned under contract at a higher rate of pay. He resigned in 1979 to establish Croft Computers in Newcastle upon Tyne, a company which was later sold.He was a confident and innovative concertina player and was soon recognised as such in the vibrant session scene of the north-east in the 1980s and 90s. He toured England, the mainland of Europe and America with the Irish dance group Clann Na Gael. He also began accompanying his own voice with the squeeze box to great acclaim, influenced by the West Country singer Tony Rose. Andrew was playing his jigs and reels and singing until a few weeks before he died.He was twice divorced. He is survived by Christopher and Patrick, and by his daughters, Rachel and Karina, and grandson, Mathew.