Things happen fast in the instant gratification world of Netflix, and when they don’t, people get antsy. With its clever Steven Spielberg references wrapped around a disarming core of retro-teenage drama, Stranger Things is the on-demand TV service’s binge-watch hit of the summer. And its theme music – that insidious, minimalist, background by Survive, a band from Austin, Texas, ought to have been the tune of the summer too – except you couldn’t buy or stream it anywhere.Stranger Things: the synth band behind the Netflix series' haunting score Some members of the instant Stranger Things cult took matters into their own hands, knocking up their own versions of the tune on GarageBand. A comedy rapper called Dr Chorizo used it for a tribute to an unfortunate key character and viewer favourite Barb ([SPOILER] “Barb/ I’m sorry that monster rolled up on you so hard”). British turntablist DJ Yoda created a full Stranger Things mix, while Australian dance producer Luke Million went further. He uploaded a clip of himself jamming the Stranger Things theme live on his home array of vintage synths, extending a scrupulously accurate version of the TV arrangement out into the further reaches of glacial, 80s-inspired electronics and the sci-fi progressive rock of Tangerine Dream. It’s quite the groove.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “I watched the series and I was totally digging it,” Million explained to the Australian radio station Triple J. “I love the whole 80s nostalgia sci-fi vibe, and the music was awesome – it reminded me of stuff like John Carpenter and films such as Big Trouble in Little China, Escape From New York …” His clip has now had 3.3m Facebook views and counting.This sudden worldwide love for frosty, instrumental, analogue-synth music, previously the preserve of crate-diggers and aficionados who consider Kraftwerk and Vangelis to be hopelessly commercial, shows just how influential a maverick Netflix project can be, and how new patterns of watching and listening can enable the fringes of music culture to crash the mainstream. The show’s success seems to have triggered a latent hunger for unadulterated synth music.When internet dance show Local Action put out a call for Stranger Things-inspired tunes for their slot on Radar Radio, they were inundated with submissions from artists such as Sharp Veins, Strict Face, Mumdance, Murlo, Xela, Slackk and Facta. The names might be unfamiliar, but the music isn’t. It’s the harsh, uneasy but irresistible electronic pulse that we’ve grown up with, from Ladytron and the Knife to Throbbing Gristle and Cabaret Voltaire.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Caberet Voltaire: L-R Chris Watson, Richard H Kirk and Stephen MallindeIn Stranger Things, 80s radio pop does half of the heavy lifting in building the lost world of Reagan-era middle America – witness all those fan-made Spotify playlists full of Toto, the Bangles, Echo and the Bunnymen, Modern English and other ‘college rock’. But it’s the synth stuff that sets the show’s paranoid emotional tone. Survive’s soundtrack represents the show’s nagging subconscious. It’s the sound of the Upside Down.“Before we were even talking about John Carpenter, we were inspired by film composers moving back into the electronic space,” the show’s co-creator Matt Duffer told Complex. “We were really into what Cliff Martinez did with Drive, and what Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross were doing with David Fincher. We wanted the Stephen King DNA, the John Carpenter DNA. We thought, let’s get more into electronic music.”This means a long-awaited moment in the (artificial, fluorescent) sun for synthwave or retrowave, the revivalist sound that’s been booming since the mid-noughties and which received a boost when Drive put A Real Hero by College and Electric Youth onto everyone’s playlists in 2011. Now diverse acts such as Lazerhawk, mitch murder, Com Truise, Chrome Canyon, Le Matos and – I’m not making this up – 80s Stallone are delivering high-grade, moody analogue robo-pop for anyone who wants to pretend that their evening commuter crawl down the M62 is an existential circuit round the bleeding neon periphery of LA.The analogue sounds are raw; the iconography is Blade Runner; the artwork is lurid, metallic, airbrushed and inspired by 80s movie posters and video game boxes … and to be fair it’s probably a bit rich, and certainly too ironic for most tastes.Sometimes you suspect that some of these people have only ever seen one movie, and that’s Tron. But for all that, the tunes are full of invention and brooding atmosphere, testimony to the versatility of all those old machines. If nothing else, it proves that the Pet Shop Boys chose exactly the right time to go retro-electro.Perhaps new converts would like to consult the motherlode of synth-based terror music too. John Carpenter, director of The Thing, Halloween and They Live, performs his self-composed and heavily synth-based film soundtracks at the Troxy, London, this autumn. The first date (when else?) is 31 October. Whatever you do, don’t ride home on a Chopper bike. You know what will happen.The first part of Survive’s soundtrack to Stranger Things is released digitally on Friday, with a CD out on 16 September a second instalment out soon. For anyone wanting to dig a little deeper, below is a playlist of further synthetic listening.