The Carnival of Viareggio has taken place since 1873. It fills a month of day and night festivities with parades of allegorical floats, parties and masked balls.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Masks Photograph: Christian SinibaldiThe carnival is a competition between all the floats and masquerades, and at stake are the honour and livelihoods of many people. In a system rather like sporting leagues, in any two years whoever receives the least points is pushed into the category below, and whoever wins moves up a category.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The passeggiata, or promenade, in Viareggio Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianThe passeggiata, or promenade, of Viareggio where the procession takes place Old newspapers never die in Viarregio      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The carnival’s raw material is papier-mâché or rather the paper mould Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianThe main raw material of the carnival is papier-mâché. A local manufacturer, Antonio D’Arliano, was the first to make a sculpture for the carnival using the method in 1925.The preparations      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Preparing the float entitled The Seed of Beauty by Fabrizio Galli Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianThere are four categories of float that make up the parade. First class, with nine giant floats, second class with four, the group masquerades of nine floats, and the single masquerades of 15 floats. The differences are in size, complexity and the budget available. It can take over six months to build the huge floats.Sinibaldi was given behind-the-scenes access and photographed some of the floats being constructed. There are 16 hangars where the allegorical floats are built, overlooking a large elliptical square. Fabrizio Galli is working on a float that is the allegorical sequel of the one that won last year. Once again, he takes inspiration from Michelangelo, but also from the contemporary painter Karol Bak and from the philosopher Ralph Waldo Emerson, to say that only inner beauty, that of nature and that which can express itself in an artistic form is able to defeat the fear of what is different and alien      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Seed of Beauty by Fabrizio Galli Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Seed of Beauty by Fabrizio Galli Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianWorkers create The Seed of Beauty by Fabrizio Galli      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Planet X by Franco Malfatti Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianThe float Planet X by Franco Malfatti      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Planet X by Franco Malfatti Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Planet X by Franco Malfatti Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the Guardian The true evil of the world is man, who through his destructive power continues to threaten the ecosystem. The wicked and selfish policies of a few are seriously endangering the lives of all. And, if one day man were forced to flee to another planet? – Planet X descriptionMany of the people involved in building the floats are family. It is a tradition that is passed down through the generations.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Light effects are installed inside the mouth of Donald Trump on this float. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianThe float Bang Bang by the Cinquini brothers. Davide, is installing lighting effects into Donald Trump’s mouth      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bang Bang by Stefano Cinquini Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bang Bang by Stefano Cinquini Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the Guardian I was amazed by the size and the manual and creative process and skill necessary. I was also quite impressed by the fact that everything gets destroyed after the carnival – Christian SinibaldiIn the Cittadella      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Floats get ready on the morning of the carnival Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianThe Cittadella del Carnevale, which opened in 2001, is an extraordinary architectural complex dedicated to the creation and preservation of the carnival, and is where the floats are prepared on the morning of the parade.After leaving the Cittadella at about 11am, the floats slowly make their way to the city centre. It takes about two hours to reach the main street of Viareggio, where they are paraded for spectators and judges.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The floats making their way to the city centre. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A young spectator gets into the spirit of dressing up. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   People watch the floats. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianSpectators get into the spirit of the carnival by dressing up      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A spectator in a Friesian cow outfit Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the Guardian for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Clowning around on a window ledge. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianA fashionable cow and a pair of clowns watch the floats as they head for the promenadeFamily fun      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A family in costume. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the Guardian for the GuardianThe parade was postponed for a week due to heavy rain and wind, which is a safety issue given the huge size of the floats. It is a family occasion, with many groups dressing up together, and arriving the day before.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   This family came from Parma to enjoy the show. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianThis family came from Parma in northern Italy to enjoy the show. They had never experienced anything on this scale before       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A family dressed up together. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A family of Transformers. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianA family of pirates and some TransformersFirst-class floats      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Seed of Beauty by Fabrizio Galli. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the Guardian for the GuardianThere are nine first-class floats. They can be as high as 27 metres and carry up to 250 people, including dancers and crew. Each float in the first- and second-class categories has maschere (masks) that perform a routine and a show throughout the three hours of the parade.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Big Dipper – The Big Bear by Carlo Lombardi. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianThe Big Dipper – The Big Bear by Carlo Lombardi      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Big Dipper – The Big Bear by Carlo Lombardi. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Big Dipper – The Big Bear by Carlo Lombardi. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianAs they make their way along the route, each float repeats their show for the audience.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bang Bang by Stefano Cinquini. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianBang Bang, which was seen earlier under construction, by the Cinquini brothers In the America that has elected Donald Trump as the next president of the United States, there are those who are fighting in defence of the constitutional law for the right to bear arms. The consequences, however, are clear when one looks at the long list of crimes or of domestic accidents caused by the use of guns and rifles. Just as if we were in a modern Saloon of the wild west, in the artists’ view Donald Trump is the symbol of all this – Bang Bang description      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bang Bang by Stefano Cinquini. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bang Bang by Stefano Cinquini. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianFirst televised in 1954, today the event is Italy’s largest folk event with an annual budget of €5m (£4m).       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Such a Great Love by Jacopo Allegrucci. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianEach carnival comprises five different shows, usually taking place each weekend in February, with the final parade on Shrove Tuesday. Group masquerades      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   I Sincronet by Marzia Etna. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianThe group masquerades are made from six different figures, only one of which can be on wheels. The others must be carried, and each masque can weigh up to 30kg. The group masquerade above is called I Sincronet by Marzia Etna, which is explained as: While we swim, albeit in a sea of troubles with a smile on our lips, our politicians agree to perform synchronized swimming with pirouettes and acrobatics, sometimes making wise decisions, sometimes not      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   I Sincronet by Marzia Etna. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the Guardian for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   It’s Been a Breeze by Luca Bertozzi. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi/Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianI Sincronet by Marzia Etna, and It’s Been a Breeze by Luca BertozziFaces in the crowd      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dancers during the parade Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi/Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianEach year the carnival attracts more than 600,000 spectators who gather to watch and join the grand parades. Each parade has a different jury which votes on the winning floats.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Spectators. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianFace paint, onesies and tutus. Not all the onlookers are human      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A face-painted spectator. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A spectator in an animal costume. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Well-dressed dogs join the fun. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the Guardian for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A dog in a tutu. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the Guardian for the GuardianDogs in costume are a regular sight during the celebrations.Carnival fever      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The parade in full flow. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianThe first parade in 1873 featured decorated carriages in the historic Via Regia, the heart of the old town. It was transferred to the promenade at the beginning of the 20th century and has grown in size and popularity each year. It is accompanied by masked and musical all-nighters in the streets. These parties originated in the veglione colorate, or coloured dances, from the 1920s.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Boric Behind the Mask by Uberto and Luigi Bonetti. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianBoruca Behind the Mask by Uberto and Luigi Bonetti      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Boric Behind the Mask by Uberto and Luigi Bonetti. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Boric Behind the Mask by Uberto and Luigi Bonetti. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the Guardian The float is an invitation to rediscover oneself, the will to live and desire of freedom through the example of the Boruca population, one of the few indigenous communities of Costa Rica that escaped the Spanish colonisation of the 16th century. Today, the Boruca live in a self-governed protected nature reserve, maintaining and treasuring their identity and pride – Boric Behind the Mask descriptionCarnival of ViareggioCarnival de Viareggio