Values. The eternal principles on which our sense of self depends. The moral code that runs through our character like words in a stick of rock. The standards of behaviour that have stood the test of time.If that sounds like a crowd-pleasing conference speech, the kind politicians give to make party members go all misty-eyed, it certainly could be. It’s also a load of rubbish.Think of how differently your great-grandparents, if they lived in Britain, looked at the world. Think of how a Victorian gentleman would have thought about morality, and Britain’s role as a global power. Go back another 300 years. What was more important, freedom or virtue? Obedience before God or the right of every person to fulfil their potential? Equality or hierarchy?British values are necessarily a work in progress. Defining them is in fact about setting out how we want to be now, or what we could achieve if we put our minds to it. They’re up for grabs, subject to change, very much part of politics.The government has said that schoolchildren in England should be taught “fundamental British values” which it describes as “democracy, the rule of law, individual liberty, and mutual respect and tolerance of those with different faiths and beliefs”. And then there are hidden values – the ones we might not immediately perceive, but which govern our behaviour in important ways. I’ve made a little list, incomplete and up for debate. But let’s see how we score, and where there’s room for improvement.Democracy      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘All-powerful monarch Charles I was executed. But he was replaced by a dictator, Oliver Cromwell.’ Rupert Everett as Charles I in Cromwell and Fairfax. Photograph: PACan we afford to be a bit smug here? Our parliament was a power to be reckoned with earlier than many others. In the 17th century, England became one of the first European nations to undergo a republican revolution. MPs clashed with the crown and the country descended into civil war. All-powerful monarch Charles I was executed. But he was replaced by a dictator, Oliver Cromwell. Parliamentary government became the norm from the 18th century onwards. At first, only landowners could vote to return representatives to parliament. The franchise was extended to all men over 21 and to women over 30 in 1918 and to women over 21 in 1928. But democracy is in trouble: turnout in general elections is now about 65% of registered voters. Because of our electoral system, parties (like today’s Conservatives) can win and govern alone on the votes of less than a quarter of the electorate. Political education could boost these figures. And proportional representation would be fairer, but might give fringe parties undue influence.Living our values score: 7/10How to do better: Get out the voteFree speech      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We have always lived with taboos and no-go areas – they are what regulate and define our culture.’ An 1829 cartoon by William Heath depicts British prime minister Arthur Wellesley running the gauntlet of a protestant mob crying ‘no popery’. Photograph: Hulton Archive/Getty ImagesHere’s an interesting thing. Free speech is often touted as an Anglo-Saxon value (see the first amendment to the US constitution). It’s also said to be under threat. Political correctness and hypersensitivity to offence are its enemies. A golden age of free speech is slipping away from us. The idea that people should be allowed to publish the widest possible range of views, with bad ones exposed to public scrutiny and the contempt they deserve, is an excellent rule of thumb. That’s the position set out in John Milton’s English classic Aeropagitica. What’s often forgotten is that Milton thought some views were beyond the pale and shouldn’t be tolerated. “Popery” for example. In other words, being Catholic. We have always lived with taboos and no-go areas – they are what regulate and define our culture. Rather than expecting these to disappear completely, which is unrealistic, shouldn’t we try to make our taboos reflect contemporary values, rather than those of a more discriminatory and hierarchical past? Not so long ago, it was difficult if not illegal to talk or write about many aspects of human sexuality, to criticise the monarchy, the Church of England or the army. I’d be happier with a climate in which it’s harder to insult people because they’re Jewish, female, black or gay.Living our values score: 7/10How to do better: Don’t be evilProperty      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Property rights would probably jump out as something the British value with unusual consistency.’ Christmas lights in Melksham. Photograph: Matt Cardy/Getty ImagesIf a Martian were to cast an eye over the great sweep of British history, property rights would probably jump out as something the British value with unusual consistency. Magna Carta, in 1215, sought to ensure that property couldn’t be randomly expropriated by the crown. The rule of law that governs our lives emerged as a framework to protect life and property. At times Britons have extended the concept to encompass territories inhabited by other peoples and the ownership of human beings. That was despicable. But property isn’t in and of itself a bad thing. Most of us want to own things. It would just be nice if they were spread around a bit more evenly.Living our values score: 4/10How to do better: Give everyone a fairer shareTolerance      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We’re not above scapegoating people on the basis of their appearance or background.’ An EDL rally against a Slough mosque. Photograph: Peter Marshall/Demotix/CorbisI find it a bit vertigo-inducing when Conservative politicians, many of whose colleagues voted for section 28, deploy language suggesting that Muslims aren’t supportive enough of gay rights. I suppose these rapid about-turns serve to underline my point about the fluidity of values. We should be grateful that a party whose members delayed the repeal of anti-gay legislation until 2003 has arrived at a more enlightened position. What’s the British record on toleration more generally? Jewish people were expelled from England in 1290, but welcomed back in 1656. After the Reformation, protestants from across Europe, like the French Huguenots, were given safe harbour in English cities. On the other hand, for a long time – several hundred years – it was very difficult to be an “out” Catholic. Laws excluded this religious minority from public office. In 1780 there were riots against them in London. To this day, it’s illegal for the head of state to be Catholic.Britain is currently a multifaith, multi-ethnic nation, with a high rate of ethnically mixed relationships. We’re also a “permissive society” thanks to liberal legislation introduced since the 1960s. We’re not, however, above scapegoating people on the basis of their appearance or background. In the current climate, Muslims appear to be bearing the brunt of our difficult-to-shake habit of intolerance.Living our values score: 6/10How to do better: Tackle IslamophobiaInstitution building      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The British Museum, which has collected the best of what human civilisation has to offer – not without controversy – is now open to the world for free.’ Photograph: AlamyThis sounds boring. But it’s something we can be truly proud of. Elsewhere institutions provoke fear, contempt or frustration. Officials get in the way, demand bribes or unreasonable payments, throw up obstacles to creativity or make life difficult for minority groups. Britain’s institutions have their fair share of problems. But they’re better than most. The BBC is a major national asset. Its journalism is meticulous and independent, a genuine global good. Our universities have a long history of making life better in all sorts of ways. The British Museum, which has collected the best of what human civilisation has to offer – not without controversy – is now open to the world for free. The NHS is, despite everything, a beacon of fairness and excellence in a world where, most of the time, your good health depends on how much money you have. It’s too easy, living among these institutions, to forget how unusual they are. We should cherish them.Living our values score: 9/10How to do better: Don’t take anything for grantedEccentricity      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Rather than encouraging them to conform, we celebrate their absurdity.’ Vivienne Westwood and Stuart Goddard aka Adam Ant at Malcolm McLaren’s funeral in London, 2010. Photograph: REXA stock character in the annals of national stereotype is the “English” eccentric. Obviously no one told eminent Scottish poet William McGonagall, author of the Tay Bridge Disaster and those immortal lines: “your central girders would not have given way, At least many sensible men do say, Had they been supported on each side with buttresses, At least many sensible men confesses”. Or Welsh eccentric William Price, archdruid and founder of the Cremation Society of Great Britain. Britons can be pretty weird. And yet, rather than encouraging them to conform, we celebrate their absurdity. Just look at punk grand dame Vivienne Westwood, music alien David Bowie or stately homo Quentin Crisp. Some of our best eccentrics were nurtured by free education and a generous dole. Who can afford to be an oddball now?Living our values score: 8/10How to do better: Bring back dropping outComedy      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We definitely are good at making people laugh.’ Rob Delaney and Sharon Horgan in Catastrophe. Photograph: Paul Thompson/Channel 4British humour! It’s the envy of the world. Well, unless you count situation comedy. Who’d rather watch My Family than Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt? Miranda than Arrested Development? I’m just kidding, because we definitely are good at making people laugh. Chaucer got in there early, Shakespeare was a dab hand when he wasn’t strewing the stage with corpses, Jonathan Swift did all right too. From Gilbert and Sullivan to music hall to pantomime, we kept the tradition going through the 19th and early 20th centuries. After the dark days of the second world war came the satire boom. The best kind of boom, I think you’ll agree. No one gets hurt, just deflated. And then there was the alternative scene, Spitting Image, Whose Line is It Anyway?. Now we have Peep Show and Catastrophe. British comedy is brilliant.Living our values score: 9/10How to do better: Remember there’s more to life than Monty Python