A few years ago a girl I’d been at school with died. We were all still under 40 and so the news, as it filtered out through social media, came as a shock, not only because of her relative youth, but also because of who she’d been. She’d been popular. Not one of the blonde and beautiful girls, the ones who boys waited for outside the gates while the rest of us ate crisps, worried about getting fatter and watched in envy, but the kind of tough popular. Great at sport and gymnastics, and the girl you were kind of wary of without ever really understanding why. A different kind of cool clique than the pretty girls, but still cool all the same. We had the same first name, same middle name and our surnames started with the same letter and so at eight years old we’d been put at desks next to each other, and for eight years after that she was always just ahead of me on any register. She always felt just ahead of me in a lot of ways. She never feared sports day, or gym classes or dance. She was one of those girls you just knew was going to succeed. Or so it seemed back then.13 minutes by Sarah Pinborough - review She died of alcoholism and anorexia; two battles it transpired she had been fighting pretty much since the end of her teenage years. The shock soon faded into an adult “of course.” It was hard to stay that good at gym. It was hard to stay slim and sporty and always be the captain in any given game. It was hard to always be the best. The appearance of making things look easy had taken their toll. When our year group, adults now, gathered to raise some money for the illnesses that had claimed her life, time folded pretty quickly and wandering those school halls again we were partly back to being 12, 13, 14, 15, the years when our judgements of each other counted for so much. After a while, once we’d shed our adult facades and were back to just being ourselves, one girl/woman quietly said of our fallen peer, “She bullied me. I didn’t like her much.”Dorothy Parker: 'She was a star, but a dark star' There was a moment of silence and furtive glances after that before we all nodded our agreement. It was true. She had been a bully. Mean and bitchy and always making someone cry. All that trying so hard all the time had probably been the cause. What energy did she have left for niceness with all that effort going into maintaining her position? How she must have hated the rest of us who trailed in near the back of the dreaded cross-country races, and who were always picked last, embarrassed and wanting the ground to swallow us whole, for rounders while she led the way. All cool. All superior.But that’s the thing about school that you realise as you get older – and it carries over – although less intensely – into adult life. No one is cool. Not really. Inside, everyone is a mess of anxieties. We just have different ones. If someone is being bitchy about you there’ll be some part of it that’s envy, whether it be because you’re good at drama, maths, have a nice family, have good hair – invariably it’s something you can’t recognise in yourself. Everyone at school – unless they’re truly lucky and well-balanced – spends all those years being terrified of being found out.Top 10 female friendships in YA I love my female friends but at the same time, when I remember my school friendships there are a heap of complex emotions attached to them. I wanted to write about that when I started 13 Minutes. Yes, it’s a twisty thriller, but it’s also my way of digging into those different cliques of girls and how they rely on each other and also damage each other. To see how fragile everyone is behind the masks they wear in those years balanced somewhere between childhood and womanhood. To remember the power there was to be had in secrets. How important that society was. And then have some fun with it! Sarah Pinborough’s 13 Minutes is available from the Guardian bookshop.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 