As the seasons change and even sunnier days arrive with that familiar autumnal nip in the air, I’m reminded of how my polytunnel really comes into its own. This structure covered in a thin layer of plastic is now invaluable to my growing efforts, providing protection against the lashing rain we had last week in West Wales and affording greater resilience in the battle against extreme weather that faces us for the foreseeable future.  It’s no wonder that polytunnel growing is on the rise. They are a lot cheaper to buy than a greenhouse and relatively easy to put up yourself. If you can fit one in, they really do take your fruit and veg growing onto a whole new level, widening the range of what you can grow successfully in the first place: you’ll be able to grow grapes, melons, cucumbers, peppers, aubergines and chillies. Plus it provides a delightful haven from the worst of the weather outside. If you’re feeling tempted, spring is the best time to construct one in your garden or on your allotment, although there seem to be lots of discounts around now, so out of season may be a cheaper time to buy. You’ll need to situate your polytunnel carefully: a sunny spot on a level area with some protection from wind is preferable. As long as it isn’t more than 3m tall and doesn’t take up more than 50% of your garden, or cause an issue for your neighbours, planning permission is not normally required. If in doubt though, do check with your local planning department first.  Here are just some of the ways you will stand to benefit: Year-round salads A polytunnel opens up a world of winter salad opportunities that you’d be hard-pushed to experience otherwise. More delicate lettuces and leaves will be better quality and keep going that bit longer, while hardier kales, chard, mustards, cresses, chicories, spinach, parsley and mizuna will keep you in exciting leaves for many months to come. If you’re quick, hardier salad plugs can still be planted out now. You can also try cutting back summer lettuces to reduce the risk of mildew and encourage slow winter growth.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Owning a polytunnel can open up a whole new range of crops, including grapes. Photograph: Kim StoddartEarlier crops With a polytunnel, the so-called hungry gap in spring isn’t as noticeable, as many crops including new potatoes, spring cabbage, peas, salad and beans won’t be far off at all. There is still time to germinate pea and broad bean seeds to enable you to overwinter plants for a real head-start come spring. No need to be just a fair weather gardener No matter how dire the weather, you can garden or just sit and relax in your polytunnel. After the appalling weather last winter I’ve added a deckchair and little seating area in mine now – it really is a little sanctuary. Simply lay a weed suppressant layer covered with gravel over your chosen spot. This is the quickest (and one of the cheapest) ways to go about it.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   In a good year, Kim Stoddart gets a bonus second batch of strawberries from her polytunnel plants. Photograph: Kim StoddartBest for strawberries I’ve never had a great deal of luck with strawberries grown outside. As soon as they near ripeness, birds, slugs and insects descend to munch on the majority of the crop before I can get stuck in. Inside is a completely different matter, with a bumper harvest each time. In good years we sometimes get a bonus second batch of strawberries from our plants later in the season, too. Now is a good time to get runners established; do so by carefully placing the new plants in pots with fresh multipurpose compost still attached to the parent plant. Growing flexibility Even in an unheated polytunnel such as mine, you can still sow seeds significantly earlier than you would do otherwise. I also keep a large home-made unheated propagator on the potting bench to further aid germination and protect seedlings from the cold (and the polytunnel mice). Likewise, you can also sow a bit later than you would do normally, as the growing season is extended on both sides, providing all round greater flexibility. Plants such as cucumber, tomato and melon can produce fruit well into November and sometimes December depending on how cold it gets, so it’s well worth leaving them in the ground. A helping hand for harder-to-grow crops I’d be hard pushed to grow decent tomatoes, cucumbers or peppers in my garden in West Wales without some form of cover. It also gives me room to experiment with more adventurous produce. The key here is making sure your polytunnel is clean inside and out to ensure your plants get as much light as possible, especially this time of year. Seed saving If you’d like to extend your seed saving efforts, a polytunnel will help immensely. It allows you to safely overwinter more sensitive biennials such as carrots, parsley, beetroot and swede so they can successfully flower and set seed the following year. Now is a good time to take a few tomatoes, peas, french beans, cucumbers and the like and bury them in the ground so they can spring into action when they’re ready the following year. This really is lazy gardening at its best.Winter protection for container plants Potted herbs such as rosemary, parsley, sage and thyme will benefit from being brought inside, rewarding you for their shelter with more opportunities for winter pickings. While any more sensitive plants can also benefit from being given a barrier against the elements. Just bring them inside and remember to keep watering. For more resilient gardening ideas and antics see getbadlybehaved.com or @badlybehavedone 