Michael Morpurgo has said the policy of constantly testing children in schools has created an “apartheid system” that is destroying their self-confidence and resulting in feelings of shame and anxiety. The children’s laureate, whose book War Horse is taught in primary and secondary schools, said exams had ensured “millions of our children still feel excluded and alienated” and that the world of books and education “was shut off from them for ever”.The author has spoken in the past about the lasting impact that failing his 11-plus exam had on him when he was young. Delivering the inaugural Book Trust annual lecture at Guildhall in London, Morpugo said: “There still exists almost an apartheid system of a kind in this country, between haves and have-not children, between those who read, who through books, through developing an enjoyment of literature, can have the opportunity to access the considerable cultural and material benefits of our society; and those who were made to feel very early on that the world of words, of books, of stories, of ideas, was not for them, that they were not clever enough to join that world, that it was not the world they belonged to, that it was shut off from them for ever. “The great divide was still there, is still there, maybe not wider … but shamefully still there.”Morpurgo accused schools of taking the wonder of stories and playfullness of language and removing the joy from reading by making it about spelling, handwriting, grammar and comprehension tests.Instead of encouraging success, he added, the system “brings only a sense of worthlessness and hopelessness. It brings fear and shame and anxiety. It separates from those who have passed, rocks confidence, ruins self esteem. You disappoint yourself, disappoint others. You give up. I gave up”.The author directed some of the blame for the failure to engage the next generation with literature at “governments who have all indulged in short-termism in their education policies, to a greater or lesser extent, who corral schools and pressure teachers into teaching literacy fearfully, who insist that measurable outcomes and results are the be-all and end-all of the education process, who often make a chore and a trial out of reading and books, who have succeeded so often only in banishing enjoyment”.However, he emphasised that everybody had a responsibility to hold the government and schools to account and ensure that reading was an inclusive experience for children.The award-winning writer said his love of literature was re-invigorated by his mother, who had helped restore his confidence in learning, but added that not all children were so lucky. After failing the 11-plus exam, two of his aunts stepped in to help pay for private school.“There are far too many children I failed – as a teacher, as a writer and campaigner too,” he said. “Our prisons are full of them, full of those we have failed. Many remain lonely and marginalised all their lives.”Morpurgo’s comments come after he spoke out against Theresa May’s plan to extend grammar schools, with more children taking the 11-plus, as “divisive and stupid”.“Theresa May said she wanted this country to have opportunities for everyone. You don’t create opportunities by creating failure,” said Morpurgo.His Book Trust lecture called on schools and local authorities to keep libraries open, for parents to read to their children and for a mandatory story time to be introduced in schools which was unconnected to any academic achievements or examinations.“You cannot force feed children with literacy, said Morpurgo. “Metaphors are better mixed. Encourage parents, unchain the teachers, take away the fear.”