At 33, the cartoonist and film director Dash Shaw is well ahead of the game. A regular feature on best-of-the-year lists with his graphic novels Bottomless Belly Button and Bodyworld, Shaw’s sideline in animation – which includes an especially beautiful Sigur Rós video – has given birth to a full-blown feature-length cartoon, screened during this year’s New York film festival.My Entire High School Sinking into the Sea review – animated disaster movie smartly captures teenage life In his debut film, My Entire High School Sinking Into the Sea, Shaw riffs on his own identity – the hero’s name is Dash – and the vast catalog of comics, cartoons and indie films that obsess him. Filtered through those influences and tendencies, though, are Shaw’s gestures at what makes teenage life so lonely, and how hard it is, when you’re young, to turn into the person you’re supposed to be.The whole film looks like your work. How much of it did you draw?That’s a good question and it’s hard to answer. There are other people involved – Jane Samborski is the lead animator on it. For some sequences she’d pencil the figures and I would ink. For others, maybe it’s all my drawings but she’s compiled it into aftereffects. So it’s a lot of my drawings. I storyboarded the whole movie, and so there are kind of indications of how the whole thing would look. It was kind of a collage – replacing temporary elements with better elements and adding more elements. I can’t really give you a percentage.You’re both very accomplished and very young. How did you get started in comics?I’m gonna answer in the best way I can: I was really a workaholic at a very young age, in comics and in illustration. I did illustrations for the Richmond Times-Dispatch when I was in high school and I started making zines in middle school, and I had participated in mural projects in high school, and even when I was in college at SVA [the School of Visual Arts] I had been published a lot. With comics you don’t have an agent, really – you start making them by yourself and maybe someone who has a small printing press wants to put out your book, and it’s less of a, you know, official thing. You just end up making a lot of things. That happened a lot in high school. Is it important to distance yourself from your experiences in your work? As you say, the character is named after you but it’s kind of a prank on comic memoirs because the events aren’t realistic.It is kind of a joke, but also, I wanted to be a writer and I worked on the school paper. It isn’t completely a prank, as you say. It’s maybe just playing on that convention – maybe one-third of it is a joke. It’s a little like if Indiana Jones was just named George Lucas. We know that George Lucas is interested in archaeology and all that kind of stuff, but it’s just a fantasy. And maybe when you name the character that, it’s a funny thing, because in comics it’s so common and in books it’s so common. It’s maybe an obnoxious thing to do in a movie but I don’t really know why, because it’s an acceptable thing to do in these other mediums. So much of the movie comes from comics anyway, so it felt like it was just one part of interpreting a comic language into movies, to do that.How is it obnoxious?I guess because it isn’t done as much in movies, you lose either way. You lose if the character’s really cool, and you lose if the character’s a jerk. People take it differently than reading a comic. I think it’s the case also because it’s not done very often. It’s done a lot with comedians. Jerry Seinfeld, we know he isn’t like that. It’s kind of a joke version of him. There are things that come from real life. The other thing is Jason Schwartzman’s performance. He’s a major contributor to the character.Cartoonist Ben Katchor: 'You can't keep recycling what's happening' Who do you feel like the audience is for this?That’s a super good question. That’s a big one. I hoped that a 15-year-old nerdy kid who’s into drawing and painting would love it, but I didn’t, like, find a bunch of those kids and screen it for them. If that’s my only answer, I didn’t try enough to make sure. I’m 33! I don’t know what it’s like to be a 15-year-old right now. But I was a 15-year-old nerdy kid who was into drawing and painting. So I think or hope that some of that crowd will dig it and it’ll be an important movie for them. And then I wonder, “Did I make it for myself?” Because it was very self-generated. But it also was such a pain in the ass that it couldn’t just be for myself because drawing the same thing over and over isn’t enjoyable a lot of the time. It feels improvisational, but it obviously can’t be, because it’s an animated film and thus hugely labor intensive.People who are maybe at the age of the characters are figuring out how to be creative. There’s cut-paper snowflakes in this movie. I don’t want to say it’s primitive, but primitive is maybe the best word when there’s all this CG animation going on. It’s personal gestures, or whatever the mindset is is similar to what I want from the mindset of the movie. I really wanted the movie to have an energy to it. The movie is very still, because it is limited animation, but I wanted to show how much energy you could get out of that. I wanted it to be like an action movie that tips its dial toward experimental cinema and then back toward action movie.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Who did you look to early on when you were trying to develop your style and who do you admire now, in terms of cartoonists?I think about Tezuka a lot. I thought a lot about the first season of Astro Boy, because that was a case where he wanted to make animated movies and kind of compete with Disney, but the Japanese television studios wouldn’t give him enough money. So he kind of developed a limited language of animation that relied on his skills as a cartoonist. He used what he knew from comics in terms of composition and character design and directly transposed it into animation. I think that not only is it cool as a cartoonist to see that – I think they stand up as good cinema, with, like, Saul Bass. You don’t have to know that he’s a cartoonist. You can just appreciate those episodes and really like them. [And] Lotte Reiniger, for example, with The Adventures of Prince Achmed, which was the first animated feature – she made it with silhouettes and the elevator sequence of a high school sinking is kind of an homage to her. The imaginative inner life of the comic artist – in pictures [And] an obvious one is Charles Schulz. The Charlie Brown Christmas special uses a kind of comics language in animation in a limited way. The characters are so empathetic and kind of moving. They’re like adults, but they’re not. It’s kind of funny but it’s not laugh-out-loud funny. That Christmas special in particular is, I think, maybe one of the greatest pieces of cinema ever.My Entire High School Sinking Into the Sea will be released in 2017