When a concert by Keith Emerson was announced as part of last year’s Barbican Moog Concordance series (alongside unlikely programme mates Suicide and Charlemagne Palestine), promising the maestro presiding over a towering modular synth rig and a Wagnerian-scale orchestra, I did not hesitate to secure a ringside seat.Keith Emerson of Emerson, Lake and Palmer found dead aged 71 Keith Emerson – with his bandmates Greg Lake and Carl Palmer in prog-rock pioneers Emerson, Lake and Palmer – was in an elite class of stars that dominated 70s arenas. Unlike many of their celebrated contemporaries, however, ELP, an almost unimaginably huge attraction four decades ago, are these days nearly forgotten, roundly denounced or conspicuously overlooked.Often cast as the epitome of everything the punk revolution railed against, the trio’s epic, virtuosity-driven music was the antithesis of the nuts-and-bolts, three-chord, garage-inspired rock I’d hear while hanging out at CBGBs. ELP’s superhuman musicianship couldn’t have been in starker contrast to the minimalist troglodyte brutality of my bass playing in Teenage Jesus and the Jerks.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I’d been introduced to Emerson’s flamboyant and aggressive approach to keyboards long before his groundbreaking synthesiser work with ELP. His over-the-top performances with the psychedelic band the Nice in the late 60s were the stuff of legend. When he wasn’t busy burning the American flag on stage, he would resort to various abuses of his Hammond organ – dry humping it, knifing the keys with a Nazi dagger (a present from Lemmy, apparently), and generally shaking, heaving and bashing the thing. These antics were a psychotic step beyond anything Little Richard or Jerry Lee Lewis had done, and to my adolescent mind as thrilling and dangerous as anything Iggy or Alice Cooper were getting up to. For his unique way with a keyboard, Emerson is for ever enshrined in my mind; and he anticipated legions of keyboard abusers, from Suicide’s Martin Rev to Moby to Trent Reznor.Keith Emerson obituary However, the music Emerson concocted in ELP’s heyday is more difficult to come to grips with than his stage antics. My teenage struggles to assemble a joint on the gatefold sleeve of their album Tarkus were nothing compared with my struggles to comprehend the rambling superabundance of that album’s musical content. Tarkus’s cyber-mutant cartoon monster and his adversaries were easy to sneer at, but the music was simply too complex and ambitious and played with far too much prowess for me to dismiss.The rock critic Lester Bangs once charged Emerson, Lake and Palmer with war crimes, and certainly the band are synonymous with prog’s worst profligacies. Yet I have come round to finding more musical merit in them now than I ever could before. I’m not one of those who exalt rock’s native “simplicity”, who claim how much more authentic such efforts are and who regard efforts to intellectualise rock as misguided. I’m more intrigued by rock musicians who overreached, and by the uncomfortable intersections of intellectual intent and popular music they came up with. ELP are the quintessence of highfalutin artistic aspirations mixed with technical exuberance, propped up by every whim rock stardom can muster. They embody the dizzying heights, sublime accomplishments and abysmal pretensions of such an approach.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest For all its excesses, Trilogy stands as their pinnacle album to my mind, coming closest to capturing the classical-rock fusion that was the band’s mission. With original material composed mostly by Emerson (with lyrics by Lake) carefully and intricately modelled on western classical forms such as the fugue, bolero and the symphonic poem, it is infused with hyperactive martial futurism. There are a few catchy tunes to be had here, but for the most part the maddening, sprawling tonal discontinuity of Trilogy, with its constantly modulating key changes and perversely disruptive rhythms, is a challenge to the casual listener. Yet if they can hang in for the tumultuous ride, even a casual listener can discern an inner coherence to this ambitious album.Whatever you think of Emerson’s music, not only was he a serious, committed artist, an innovator and mammoth talent at his instrument, he also seemed to have a great time doing it all. • James Sclavunos is a producer, longtime member of Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds and a no wave pioneer.