The 2017 Oscars might be best remembered for the moment La La Land was mistakenly announced as best picture, almost eclipsing Moonlight’s moment in the sun.Before the drama, and before the Academy announced – and re-announced – the recipients of this year’s golden statuettes, we asked Guardian readers to suggest films and performances they thought deserving of an award. From mainstream suggestions to more leftfield choices that didn’t get a look in amid the Hollywood machine (or weren’t eligible due to missing the qualification period) there were plenty of ideas. Here’s a selection of responses from film-going readers. You can tell us who you think should have won in the comments below.Best actress – three non-nominees you think should’ve wonRebecca Hall for Christine Christine was disappointingly under-released but Hall was phenomenal and gave a heartbreaking performance in the story of Christine Chubbuck (a news anchor who killed herself on TV). She wasn’t exploitative, she was so respectful. There’s a scene in the middle of the film where Christine is finally going on a date with a coworker she likes. At least, she thinks it’s a date ... he is actually taking her to his therapy group. It’s so crushing to watch, and you can see on Christine’s face that she can’t be saved.Kyle Turpin, MelbourneAnnette Bening for 20th Century Women      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Annette Bening (front) with her 20th Century Women co-stars. Photograph: Allstar/ANNAPURNA PICTURES It was outrageous that Annette Bening’s stand-out performance was overlooked in the BAFTA and Academy Awards nominations. Bening captured both the outward poise and the internal agony of a middle-aged woman trying to ensure her teenage son was able to learn to be a man in the absence of his father. She bottled the essence of wishing and wanting to do all she could, while also knowing that she was completely unable to comprehend, understand or affect a single thing in his life. It was a brilliant performance and she definitely deserved a nomination.Caroline Norbury, BristolAmy Adams for Nocturnal Animals I was mesmerized by Amy Adams in Nocturnal Animals. To deliver such an outstanding performance with hardly any lines is testament to her ability to portray emotions via facial expression, and sometimes her eyes alone. Most of her scenes are passive, involving her reading and reacting to a book her ex-husband has sent her, and yet she manages to portray a range of emotions – angst, horror, regret. Said bluntly, she doesn’t have much to work with (characters to interact with, action sequences etc) yet her scenes stood out.The final scene, when Adams’s character is at the restaurant waiting for her ex-husband’s arrival was my favourite. Her realisation that he is not coming, again portrayed entirely through her eyes and gestures, has stayed with me. Martina Scapin, MilanBest actor – three non-nominees you think should’ve wonJake Gyllenhaal for Nocturnal Animals  Gyllenhaal has been overlooked for his emotionally raw performance as a man coping with violence, loss and grief in this stylised Tom Ford film. Yes, you could argue that Casey Affleck’s performance (of a man also coping with grief) in Manchester By The Sea is more understated and subtle, but this is a totally different style of film. Told through complex flashback and a study of art/literature, the film itself and especially Gyllenhaal’s performance deserved more awards recognition. The scene in the cabin, with Gyllenhaal and Aaron Taylor-Johnson (also excellent as gang leader Ray Marcus), is a standout for me. A man confronts another man who has brought him untold pain and changed the course of his life; Gyllenhaal is overwhelmed and conflicted about how to act.Fiona Underhill, CaliforniaLewis MacDougall for A Monster Calls      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lewis MacDougall in A Monster Calls. Photograph: Jose Haro/AP The Academy rarely recognises performances from young actors, yet Lewis MacDougall (who is 14) as Conor was extraordinary. This was a perfectly judged study of grief – you could see the internal conflict he faced etched into every facial expression and in the delivery of every line. I can’t remember the last time I was so invested in a character: it was a complete performance.Andrew Dean, LondonAndy Samberg for Popstar: Never Stop Never Stopping If ever we were to turn back the tide against the fetishistic valorisation of method acting and the cult of studiously detailed “natural” dramatic performances – and let actors go big again and go comic again – we couldn’t start in a better place thanwith Andy Samberg in Popstar. His Conner is a larger-than-life character imbued with all the personality and soul of any major dramatic performance this year.We so rarely see comic performances on this level in wide release comedies anymore, and we never reward them when we do. Samberg’s performance is the kind Jack Lemmon and Walter Mathau used to be nominated and even win for, with every movement and moment calibrated to deliver not just laughs, but the pathos and heart behind the laughs. Samberg doesn’t have a big scene like so many nominated roles, but if there’s a part of the film that sold me, it’s the sequence of a washed-up Conner housesitting for his mother while she’s on tour with Fall Out Boy. It really captures the often false dichotomy of comedy and drama, being both heartwrenching and unbelievably funny.Dean Buckley, GalwayBest picture – five pictures that weren’t nominated, but you said should have beenEverybody Wants Some!!  In a year of unending cynicism and turmoil, Richard Linklater managed to make a film that had nostalgia in its heart without resorting to the rose-tinted “things were better when I was young” narrative that has infused so much of the populism that now surrounds us. The film is hilarious without being mean spirited, and manages to instil a sweetness and naivety into a cast and setting that, in lesser hands, would have come across as potentially aggressive and macho. Glen Powell’s performance was an overlooked standout in a year full of standout performances, and to top it all off, it even managed to make baseball look entertaining. There isn’t much serious conflict in this film, but the scene in which the rivalry between McReynolds and Jay is resolved with merely a nod is indicative of the feel-good vibes that define this film for me.Charles Sherwin, St AndrewsThe Childhood of a Leader      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tom Sweet as Prescott. Photograph: Allstar/Ifc Films A really fascinating and uniquely psychological perspective on what it is to be a dictator, with great performances across the board, especially Tom Sweet as Prescott. In what could easily be a stuffy period drama, Brady Corbet instead creates a psychological family drama sometimes veering into quasi-horror. Scott Walker’s score is a standout, and the film is wholly well-crafted, giving the impression there’s a seasoned director behind the camera (this is in fact Corbet’s debut) . The final scene, in which Robert Pattinson plays the older Prescott swung it for me. It’s easy to see from the somewhat small number of extras that this film did not have the largest budget, but the way Corbet frames the whole scene, following the politicians down to Prescott’s arrival with Walker’s schizophrenic score continuously playing. The very last shot, as the camera swirls in the crowd, is very powerful, connoting the chaos that will ensue under Prescott’s rule. And again, the current political climate only makes this scene all the more relevant.Max Marriot, SheffieldA Monster Calls  This film should be a legitimate contender – so why isn’t it? I can only think it being a “kids movie” has seen it it written off , but anyone who has seen it knows it is far, far more than that – it is a necessary film that left me reeling as the credits rolled, and which deserved an Oscar nod. Adult storytelling methods and concepts are used when talking to a child about grief in a succinct and heart-wrenching way; Patrick Ness (screenwriter and writer of the book the film is based on) and director J.A. Bayona leverage your empathy and compassion to wring out every tear in a way which few films are able. Adding gorgeous cinematography, a deft use of visual effects and a superb cast (including Felicity Jones’ best showing) adds up to a fantastic, grounded drama with real consequences. The scene in which Connor wreaks havok in his grandma’s living room will stick with many. The moment substitutes the metaphor for real life in such a startling way, your perspective on the rest of the film changes entirely. It’s emotional, wordless and gripping to the last frame.Nikhil Chavda, LondonHunt for the Wilderpeople  This New Zealand comedy-drama is of that rare type of film that makes you laugh hysterically and cry at the sheer sadness of it all. I was completely taken in by the misunderstood Ricky and the equally misunderstood, cantankerous Hec. There were some great films last year, but nothing got to me quite in the way that this did. Two additional Oscars should be made for monologue of the year (Taika Waititi’s priest funeral speech) and quote of the year (Rachel House’s CW Officer Paula, comparing herself to Sarah Connor, the “chin up” version). Just a sensational film. Robert Sherard, ManchesterI, Daniel Blake As someone who experienced a similar situation this film shattered me. A lot of films don’t do that any more – emotion, genuine substance is set aside for artifice or style. This was pure, honest cinema that harked to the days of The Bicycle Thieves (a Loach favourite). I went with an American and a Spanish person and they felt similar – so this goes far beyond being just a British story. It is flawed but you forgive it because it’s just so incredibly moving. Sarah, PortsmouthBest director – two names you wanted to see winDanny Boyle for T2 Trainspotting      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Boyle’s 1996 Trainspotting movie gained its sole Academy Award nomination for best adapted screenplay. Photograph: Gerard Julien/AFP/Getty Images Danny Boyle’s work here was absolutely superb. I may be being sentimental (I am an Edinburgh native and have in fact been escorted out of the club in which Renton and Begbie have their fateful encounter in the film) but on the whole, T2 was a glorious piece of cinema. It was intense, beautifully shot, nostalgic, ferocious, acted to perfection and an absolute joy – with some note-perfect satire of Glaswegian sectarianism to boot.The fact that Danny Boyle has managed to create a sequel to a much-loved, controversial movie, 20 years later, without losing the emotional impact of the original means that in my opinion, he more than deserves one of those wee statues.Suzi J, EdinburghAlice Lowe for Prevenge   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Prevenge: the first trailer for Alice Lowe’s pregnancy comedy-horror A silly indie horror comedy at first glance, Lowe’s achievement deserves more recognition than it’s getting and while an Oscar may seem laughable I for one would argue this is worthy based on past nominees. Prevenge keeps us interested through Lowe’s ability to write, direct, and act and by being an off kilter and strangely paced beast. She keeps things ticking over wonderfully and doles out sparing doses of action and gore as needed. With occasionally mystifying comic-timing that can only be attributed to Lowe herself, there are both fascinating and uncomfortable moments to enjoy – the tucking in of the mother (after victim number two) had me grinning ear to ear. Lowe does a sublime job at making what would in any other film be simply a transitional scene the highlight to an entire act.Emma, UKBest soundtrack/score – two non-nominees you felt deserved a mentionSing Street Such a great soundtrack! It’s reflective of the film, and the 80s as a decade. I’m not sure what the criteria is but I came away from the film feeling good, and wanting to listen to the songs again – I can’t believe the film hasn’t received more recognition. I was also impressed that the young actors played their own instruments.Claire, Birmingham      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Sing Street. Photograph: Snap Stills/REX/ShutterstockNeon Demon Some say that a score should just be firmly placed in the background, influencing your emotions and experience of a film without drawing much attention to itself. In Nicolas Winding Refn’s The Neon Demon, the opposite works to great effect, as the music itself becomes a central character. Martinez’s throbbing electronic score not only perfectly fits the intended synthetic feel of the film, but also can carry a wide range of emotion, considering it wasn’t crafted with traditional instruments. Adept at handling moments of horror as equally as moments of wonder, his music is often asked to carry the narrative in the absence of dialogue, which it does to great aplomb. The runway scene where Jesse finally transforms fully from a starry eyed ingenue into a beauty obsessed narcissist works due to Martinez’s score telling the viewer the story, in the absence of dialogue and literal visual storytelling.Benjamin Burman, New YorkBest animated featureYour Name      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Your Name by Makoto Shinkai, 2016 Photograph: Anime Ltd This movie shouldn’t only be nominated for animated feature but also for best foreign language movie, it’s that good – the Oscar committee seems to have failed to notice its success. The coming-of-age premise is simple, but the film’s ability to tell such a beautiful tale with pristine animation and musical score (every frame is like a work of art) should really be rewarded more highly. The story has depth and can really have an affect on the audience, but the scene that stays with me was the kataware-doki (twilight) scene, which captures the essence of the movie – of discovering yourself and discovering what you have lost in a strangely heartwarming, and mystical way. Alifah, MalaysiaBest foreign language filmAquarius Amazing, it feels at once retro and modern, it is meaningful and sexy, and a tour de force performance from Sonia Braga... Sadly, Brazil didn’t submit this film due to political differences between the director and his crew and the government. Every scene is provocative, and the soundtrack (in particular, the Brazilian music within it) further inspires.Anon, TwickenhamBest documentaryAlex Gibney’s Zero Days  This is one of the most important films to be made in our socio-political climate. It uses vivid visualisations and utilises some of the most knowledgeable people in the fields of communications and computer viruses to paint a picture of ramifications of cyber warfare and the responsibility we have as humans to start a dialogue about its fair and just usage.Matched with the exciting feel of a slick political thriller this is like a blockbuster at times and tales of real world spies and shady organisations result in a fantastic viewing experience. The introduction of a visualised hologram of a woman claiming to be a leaker of government secrets reveals chilling details of behind closed doors meetings and cyber weapons development, piling on the tension and intrigue.Elliot Rogers, CoventryWhat do you think? Tell us who you think should have won – and why – in the comments below.