One of the contributors I have relied upon most during this series is @abkquan, and I am a little disturbed by his reaction to my choice of Rome as our next musical city. “Tosca, set there, has three real Roman locations for its three acts – Sant’ Andrea della Valle, Palazzo Farnese, Castel Sant’ Angelo,” he begins promisingly. “Respighi’s trilogy Pines of Rome, Fountains of Rome and Roman Festivals also feature distinctive Roman landmarks, including Villa Borghese, the Trevi and Triton fountains, and the Piazza Navona.”So far, so good. “Unfortunately, Tosca has been described as a ‘shabby little shocker’, and the Respighi trilogy dismissed as ‘picture postcard’ music. The reader will decide for themselves whether the eternal city deserves greater musical representations. Arguably, Rome is more successfully represented in films. Fellini’s La Dolce Vita and Roma both have music by Nino Rota.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Puccini – ToscaSome interesting observations there, worth examining. Many think the dismissal of Tosca as a “shabby little shocker” comes from Bernard Shaw (who did indeed say something similar), but the phrase was in fact coined by the musicologist Joseph Kerman in his 1950s book Opera as Drama. Kerman seems to have had a rather low opinion of Puccini, also predicting that Turandot would fade into obscurity. He was wrong on both counts, and we should have no reservations about parading Tosca’s Roman antecedents, especially if we have the 1953 EMI recording with Maria Callas, Giuseppe Di Stefano and Tito Gobbi, one of the greatest of all opera recordings. Kerman’s book and the recording appeared within a few years of each other, but he never felt the need to revise his opinion of Puccini’s great (if melodramatic) opera.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Ottorino Respighi – Pini di RomaI feel less certain in my defence of Respighi, who was professor of composition at the Accademia Nazionale di Santa Cecilia in his adopted city of Rome. Pines of Rome is undoubtedly exciting, but is it any more than that? The earlier Fountains of Rome is charming, and Roman Festivals exhilarating, but there is no escaping the question of whether there is much beneath the surface glitter, and their status as concert-fillers is rather offputting. Respighi worked in St Petersburg and took lessons early in his career with Rimsky-Korsakov. For better or worse, the influence of that master orchestrator stayed with Respighi throughout his career.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Respighi – Church WindowsA different side of his musical character, drawing on his interest in the music of the 17th and 18th centuries, emerges in his four “symphonic impressions”, Church Windows. This piece comes with a warm recommendation from @thesecretorganist, who says: “I managed to destroy the speakers in my old laptop by playing the final movement of Church Windows at full volume.” @thesecretorganist admits Respighi’s music is “gloriously kitsch”, but insists it’s kitsch in a good way and reckons his name should be added to “our ever-growing list of neglected greats”. Maybe. We really need to hear more of his oeuvre and not just the much-played trilogy. The Brazilian Impressions are enticing, but we are getting a long way from Rome.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Nino Rota – Dolce VitaBack in the eternal city, we can certainly agree with @abkquan that Nino Rota’s Oscar-winning score for La Dolce Vita demands inclusion, capturing the sleazy chic of the city as it moved from postwar austerity to 60s consumerism, losing all the old certainties along the way. Rota scored many films with Roman backdrops, including Fellini’s Roma, a mordant portrait of the city and a far cry from Respighi’s sparkling tone poems. Berlioz considered Rome 'the most stupid and prosaic city I know'. As well as being an eternal city, Rome may be an elusive one for artists to capture. Georges Bizet, who studied for a couple of years in Rome in the late 1850s, spent more than a decade working intermittently on his Symphony No 2, entitled “Roma”, but he was never really happy with it despite numerous revisions and it is rarely played today, though the scherzo has its fans.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Hector Berlioz – Roman Carnival OvertureWe are on safer ground with Hector Berlioz’s Roman Carnival Overture, a wonderfully vivid work, especially when you consider that Berlioz, who also studied in Rome, thought it “the most stupid and prosaic city I know”. The overture draws on themes from Berlioz’s opera Benvenuto Cellini, though since the latter spent most of his remarkably colourful life in Florence and only a short time in Rome we have to accept the association is a little tenuous. Wonderful music, though, and quite a life (and death) story.Richard Strauss’s tone poem Aus Italien is also not entirely Roman – the third and fourth sections are drawn from the composer’s journeys further south in 1886. But the first and second are authentic portrayals of the countryside around Rome and of the ruins in the city, the remnants of a great culture. It seems to me that Strauss was striving to say something profound about a city whose true world status was long past, whereas Respighi was content to celebrate its surface energy.Finally, we cannot ignore Rome’s centrality in the Catholic world. The city’s story is one of exchanging temporal power for a somewhat shakier spiritual sway. Palestrina, as the @thesecretorganist says, is an inescapable influence on church music in the city, and his suggestion of Missa Papae Marcelli (Mass for Pope Marcellus) as a representative work is a good one.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Palestrina – Missa Papae MarcelliPope Marcellus only reigned for three weeks, so was fortunate to be immortalised in this masterpiece by Palestrina. It also, in a strange way, gets closer to the spirit of Rome than any of the other works, which pick up on single facets of the city – sleaze, corruption, chic energy, touristic beauty, vanished power. Palestrina captures the majesty of the eternal city, the beautiful dream that didn’t quite die when its empire crumbled. I like to think so, anyway.Next time, Vienna. Europe’s classical musical capital and home to its greatest composers. I once lay in front of Beethoven’s grave in the city’s Zentralfriedhof listening to his Missa Solemnis, and welcome the chance to regale you with that story.Previous cities in this series: London | Paris | Venice | Helsinki | Prague | Hamburg 