At the beginning of Line of Duty’s second series in 2014, BBC2’s hyper-adrenalised cop versus cop drama introduced a new character. DC Georgia Trotman was played by Jessica Raine, a big TV name arriving fresh from the cosy hearths and homilies of primetime smash Call The Midwife. We quickly got a sense of her police officer: she was ambitious, fearless, unhappily single and worryingly fond of a drink. And then, just as quickly, she was gone, thrown to her death from a hospital window. It was a typical Line of Duty moment: much of what we thought we’d learned up to that point went out of the window with her.How Jed Mercurio made Line of Duty unmissable TV It’s hard to believe that a drama that’s largely about internal police process could be so consistently thrilling and yet it has become crucial viewing. The show’s first series, featuring Lennie James as corrupt cop DCI Tony Gates, was warmly received but it was Keeley Hawes’s brilliantly against-type turn as dowdy DI Lindsay Denton in the bureaucratic white-knuckle ride of series two that established Line of Duty at TV drama’s top table. As Denton’s failure to transport a vulnerable witness to safety was forensically scrutinised by anti-corruption body AC-12 and shady dealings began to infiltrate all sorts of awkward places, the show’s following grew and so did the effusive critical write-ups. Denton was a fascinating creation: crafty, slippery and yet oddly sympathetic. She won’t appear in series three, an absence that would severely hamstring most shows. But on the strength of its first episode back, creator Jed Mercurio has conjured up an equally fascinating wrong ’un rozzer to step into her shoes.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Sgt Danny Waldron (Daniel Mays) is the leader of a police armed response unit. As we meet him, he and his team are in pursuit of a violent criminal. Driven from his car, the fugitive flees on foot, pursued by Waldron and, eventually, the rest of his copper crew. And then it happens, the shocking event that will shape the series. Or will it? Again and again, Mercurio ups the ante, firstly via an impossibly intense interrogation from AC-12, and then a raid that pulls the rug out from under the viewers’ feet once more.Line of Duty's Jed Mercurio: 'I like to write characters who are conflicted' As previously displayed in Public Enemies and Ashes To Ashes, Mays is an expert evoker of dysfunction bubbling under an uneasy veneer of normality. Waldron, Mays explains, “is brilliant at his job and externally, someone who rules with an iron fist. And yet, internally, he’s carrying around so much damage and it’s a really dangerous concoction.” He’s clearly not a man who should have legal recourse to firearms. After all, as AC-12’s Steve Arnott (Martin Compston) muses, “The easiest way to get away with killing someone? Be a police officer.”This notion is central to the show. Who polices the police? Bodies much like Line of Duty’s AC-12, that’s who. But what happens when they’re not paragons of probity, either? The police procedural – and, indeed, the bent copper – is a TV archetype and finding fresh angles is far from straightforward. Line of Duty, however, feels very modern in its deconstruction of the force’s internal workings. At times, immersing yourself in the show feels like taking the back off a Swiss watch. The detail and intricacy is fascinating but baffling as alliances collide, dirty deals are done and apparently trustworthy guides through the maze turn out to have led you down a blind alley. There are no shortcuts for turning this confounding milieu into compelling and believable TV.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jed Mercurio, producer, writer and director of Line of Duty. Photograph: Martin GodwinMercurio has a long history with such twisty material. He cut his television teeth in 1994 with Cardiac Arrest, an admirably convincing hospital drama in which he drew on his past life as a doctor to explore medical power structures. In person, he’s forthcoming but implacably precise; not a man given to speculation when evidence is available. He’s unusual in being a British TV showrunner along the lines of the Vince Gilligan (Breaking Bad) or David Chase (The Sopranos) model that has galvanised US television. And there are strong echoes of this century’s keynote drama The Wire in his immersion in the reality of his subject matter.Ed Burns and David Simon’s Baltimore-set masterpiece overflowed with scepticism. How does Mercurio feel about his show’s relationship with our own thin blue line? Typically, his take is analytical rather than judgemental. “Because we have a free press and incidents of police officers being involved in firearms incidents are rare, we end up poring over those stories in detail,” he says. “So there’s more opportunity to pick up on human error. And that leads to a perception of the police getting things wrong, which I don’t think is either fair or factually correct most of the time.” For Line of Duty, Mercurio runs scripts and scenarios past a police adviser with experience in these dimly lit realms. No one who flinched at the nefarious deeds of the murderous kidnapper DS Raj Prasad in season two could possibly call Line of Duty a whitewash. But warts-and-all portrayals serve their own valuable purpose.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Vicky McClure as DC Kate Fleming. Photograph: Steffan Hill/BBC/World Productions/Steffan HillAs Mercurio points out, the characteristics of institutional structures are fairly universal. “We wanted to look at the political interaction between officers,” he explains. “It’s a world in itself. But certain characters represent people occupying broader positions in the outside world. If we wanted to do something which was looking at misconduct in politics, we would make that person a senior officer in Line of Duty.” Mercurio cites his 2004 hospital drama Bodies as an example. “Roger Hurley, who was played by Patrick Baladi, was kind of a Tony Blair figure. Charismatic but there’s something not quite right in his ethical makeup. Sometimes, when you’re exploring those institutions, it’s worth looking at the wider world.”Vicky McClure: 'Lol was the most in-depth I've gone with any character' Real-life resonances aside, without humanising, relatable characters, Line of Duty wouldn’t grip like it does. One of the increasingly fascinating aspects of the show is its continuity. These characters all have histories now, some more honourable than others. As season three begins, Craig Parkinson’s dodgy DI Matthew “Dot” Cottan is somehow still sitting pretty. The suspicion lingering around Supt Ted Hastings (Adrian Dunbar) doesn’t seem to have precluded him from sitting in judgment on fellow officers. And what of Vicky McClure’s DC Kate Fleming? Previously an exemplary professional undermined by romantic missteps, can she and fellow AC-12 investigator Arnott avoid blurring the personal and professional this time?McClure ponders the essence of Fleming. “The way I deal with Kate is that she always looks like she hasn’t got time for anything bar her job,” she explains. “But I don’t think that true. She’s very private. We know that she’s got a kid and if we ever saw her with him, we’d probably see a completely different person. You can see when she’s vulnerable but she never wants to let anyone down and she’ll always want to go out fighting.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Daniel Mays as Sgt Danny Waldron. Photograph: Steffan HillMcClure returned to Fleming after the emotionally demanding completion of This Is England ’90. How does the famed looseness of Shane Meadows compare with the precision of Jed Mercurio? It’s hard to imagine two more dissimilar dramas. “Complete polar opposites,” she agrees. “All of This Is England is improvised whereas all of Line of Duty is scripted. Different tools for a different job. Some directors will let you play around within a script. Shane Meadows lets us go completely off book. Line of Duty is written so well but in any case, if we wanted to improvise, we couldn’t. We don’t have the knowledge of anti-corruption procedure in our heads.”Line of Duty box set review: Jed Mercurio’s explosive cop drama still thrills McClure may, like most of us, be bewildered by the procedure. But she’s also a fan of the show and talks of her excitement at sitting down with the script and discovering what Mercurio had in store. For the actors, too, ambiguity is part of the attraction. “Nothing’s black and white, is it? It’s a bit like Making A Murderer. Everyone’s got an opinion but nobody’s got the truth. As with Line of Duty, you’ve got the information and evidence that you’re given. But is there corruption within that evidence? Who knows?”She’s right. No one knows anything any more. The Netflix documentary sensation is emblematic of a new TV reality in which Line of Duty now finds itself. McClure confirms herself as a binge-watcher but she also fondly recalls the pleasure of waiting a week for the next episode of a favourite show. Have streaming services and new storytelling conventions moved the goalposts for a show like Line of Duty and, even, for a concept such as fictional drama?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Martin Compston as Detective Sergeant Steve Arnott. Photograph: Steffan HillMercurio is a fan of Making A Murderer but argues that the line is inherently blurred. “There’s more of a crossover between documentary and drama than a lot of documentarists admit,” he says. “Around the time of Cardiac Arrest, there were lots of fly-on-the-wall documentaries about hospital life. And as someone who worked in a hospital, I would watch them and think they were fake. Because I could see people basically performing for the camera. So I view these things with a certain level of inquisitive scepticism about how much artifice I’m watching. If you look at a documentary and decide it’s the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth then that’s potentially the wrong conclusion.”Drama and documentary are converging; we may have all recently obsessed over a creatively edited documentary on Netflix, but Line of Duty works as its neatly diametrical response – a fiction that feels nearer to reality than many “factual” films. Much as you’ll want to, you’ll struggle to obsessively plough through Line of Duty in a weekend. But as boundaries blur and the TV landscape fragments and atomises, shows such as Line of Duty confirm that primetime TV drama still has the power to startle. Danny Waldron, like Georgia Trotman before him, is testament to that.Line of Duty begins Thursday 24 March, 9pm, BBC2