Billed by its organisers as a gathering of Australia’s “best and brightest young game changers”, Junket – a three-day “unconference” in Canberra – was made possible by some of the country’s biggest brands, including Qantas and Westpac.Put together by youth publishing group Junkee Media, about 300 people were given the “suitably ambitious” goal of setting the agenda for the country’s future. More than 80 one-minute pitches on Sunday were whittled down by organisers to 60 hour-long sessions, attended by groups of up to 50 people.Topics discussed in unstructured sessions included improving the media, changing the narrative around refugees, teaching Indigenous history in schools, sexism in the judicial system, climate justice, marriage equality, death, parenthood, disability, charity, and toxic masculinity.If it sounds earnest, it was. If it sounds self-congratulatory, it was that at points, too.Trying to change the world at Junket un-conference where PowerPoint is banned Myriam Robin, sent along to Junket by Crikey with the directive from her editor to “blow it open” – one could argue perhaps not the most constructive approach – found “leftie corporate heaven” to be “her own personal hell”.But one person’s “despotic landscape of social justice” is another’s life-changing experience. Most attendees left the Canberra hotel (another sponsor) on Tuesday claiming to be full of energy, enthusiasm and ideas for paving the path to a better Australia.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Although occasionally cloying, some sessions at Junket ‘dug into the issues far beyond the once-over, superficial discussion I’ve learned to expect of conferences’ Photograph: Patrick StevensonThe long list of sponsors did not seem to bother them especially; the brand involvement was widely publicised, and without it those conversations and connections probably wouldn’t have happened.I found some of the fist-pumping positivity around the event itself cloying; the delegates who made the most valuable contribution were not necessarily the ones who spoke the most.But two of the sessions I attended – on approaches to reconciliation and reparation, and “the unbearable whiteness of being” – were the most challenging and perspective-broadening discussions I have ever been part of, and dug into the issues far beyond the once-over, superficial discussion I’ve learned to expect of conferences. (Although I imagine if I had opted for some of the more vanilla sessions on offer, my experience might have differed.)Here are some of the ideas that arose.What if we had the difficult conversations?Nayuka Gorrie – an Indigenous Australian activist and writer – facilitated both discussions, which were widely cited by attendees as highlights. “If you felt uncomfortable, that’s a really good thing,” she said in the closing session of Junket.Eleri Harris, a cartoonist living in Tasmania, said she had been struck by Gorrie’s point that “white shame” was a barrier to fostering reconciliation or reparations for Indigenous people of Australia.“You hit a wall ... Most white people shut off because they’re ashamed of what happened, then they get angry and defensive and they don’t talk about it.” White people shut off because they’re ashamed of what happened, then they get defensive and they don’t talk about it.Eleri Harris, cartoonist Yassmin Abdel-Magied, an engineer, writer and activist, said there were a lot of “difficult, sensitive conversations” at Junket, including one inspired by an opinion piece she wrote about Lionel Shriver’s recent and contentious talk on cultural appropriation at the Brisbane writers’ festival.Though there were definite “bubbles” at Junket, “there was also discomfort”, she said, particularly about race. But that those conversations were were held respectfully, without blame or defensiveness, showed that it could be done.“There’s a quote: ‘a mark of an educated mind is someone who can entertain an opposing thought without agreeing.’ I think that intellectual rigour is really important, and something we should continue to challenge ourselves to do.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘If you felt uncomfortable, that’s a really good thing’: Indigenous Australian activist and writer Nayuka Gorrie pitches a session at Junket. Photograph: Patrick StevensonWhat if employers didn’t aim for diversity, but just did it?Part of the reason those conversations were so striking was, thanks to a lack of racial diversity of most workplaces, universities, boards, councils and other units in society, they don’t happen in many other places.The delegation was by no means above reproach on this front. Spots at Junket were awarded on merit, though – in keeping with Junkee’s audience – most were in their 20s, tertiary-educated, and working in social, creative or entrepreneurial fields.But how to make all spaces more representative was a key concern. 2025 goals for gender equity are a joke ... Why not do it now?Skye Riggs, founder and CEO of Y Vote Nic Holas, the co-founder of the Institute of Many group for people living with HIV, said Australian employers should prioritise diversity in their hiring decisions, even if it meant meeting informal quotas. “And what if they didn’t send out a press release about it, they just did it?”It was a top-down problem, he said, pointing to the lack of representation in government. “That notion of a meritocracy – it’s an ugly word.”Amrita Hepi, a dancer and advocate, went one step further: throwing out those systems that disadvantage ethnic minorities and starting afresh. She called it “working yourselves out of a job”.“I think there’s so many moments when people are patting themselves on the back when there’s a female CEO, or a woman of colour at the top … It’s like – how do you completely smash this construct?”Skye Riggs – the founder of Y Vote, an organisation seeking to engage young people in democracy – said, rather than targets, equity could be built in to structures.“2025 goals for gender equity are a joke ... Why not do it now?”She suggested changing the way in which political parties receive donations could force them to be more diverse.What if institutions were incentivised to change?Similarly, a discussion of sexual assault on university campuses birthed the idea of incentivising educators to act.“At the moment universities only have something to lose from addressing the issue because it’s such bad juju for publicity,” said Bri Lee, a writer who facilitated the session. “What we’re going to try to do, in the same way clothing companies have ethical grades, we can create a grade system for the safety of students in colleges.” In the way clothing companies have ethical grades, we can create a grade system for the safety of students in collegesBri Lee, writer Universities’ responses could inform existing resources for young people choosing which institution to go to. There would be challenges in getting stakeholders onboard, but she did not see them as insurmountable.“This is not something that’s so big that it’s fanciful. This is a change that people can make.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Delegates on day three of Junket. Photograph: Patrick StevensonWhat if we all just did what we could?Skye Riggs of Y Vote said there were “lots of little things” that even those without hiring powers could do to make society more inclusive.That could be as simple as giving others the opportunity to speak, either through offering more formal media training or just shutting up in meetings. We can joke about how lofty a lot of these ideas are but we’re all ... [bringing them] back to what we do day-to-dayEleri Harris, cartoonist In a session on making democracy more representative, reference was made to the She Should Run campaign to get more women to stand for public office – and to Can You Not, discouraging white men from doing the same. Eleri Harris said she had been inspired by Junket to take a more proactive approach to mentoring, particularly of Indigenous artists.“I can’t wait around for someone to just show up and be excellent, because that’s not the way the world works.”She knew that working to improve diversity within her field seemed so “niche and specific” as to be without impact, but she saw it as the space in which she had the most potential to work for a better Australia.“We can joke about how ethereal and lofty a lot of these ideas are but we’re all talking about it and [bringing them] back to what we do day-to-day, and asking how we can incorporate these ideas into our ways of living and working into the future.”What if we embraced the ratbags?It would be easy to write a takedown of do-gooder twenty-somethings, out to change the world with more idealism than influence or expertise.The verdict on 'Junket' – surprisingly constructive and very diverse But it ultimately seems like punching down, making fun of a group of people who believe racism is bad and diversity is good, and whose energy and enthusiasm for making the world a better place is only amplified by a party with an open bar.As an activist, Nic Holas told me he could “look like a bit of a ratbag in the media”, by advocating for protests or pushing boundaries. But when movements err on the side of conservatism and “respectability politics”, “nothing gets done – so I’ve got to try and be a ratbag”.In the session about democracy, he likened effective movements for change to an orchestra “working together in concert”, not a chorus singing from the same song sheet.“And sometimes you’ve just got to let that tuba blow.” • Guardian Australia was a guest of Junket