Whether or not you like UnREAL – Lifetime TV’s fictionalized look behind the scenes of a Bachelor-like reality dating show called Everlasting – depends on how deeply uncomfortable you like entertainment to make you.Actually, that’s not quite true: shows like the The Bachelor and its empowerment-lite, not-really-a-spin-off The Bachelorette make me deeply uncomfortable, but in those cases it’s completely unintentional. (I dare you to watch one episode of HBO’s Cathouse, in which the women who work at Dennis Hof’s brothel line up for inspection by potential clients, and not shudder at the Bachelor’s next rose ceremony.) UnREAL is intentionally difficult viewing. However, with 20 seasons of The Bachelor completed, The Bachelorette in the midst of season 12 and all the international spin-offs, if I’m not alone in my deep discomfort with competitive dating for the pleasure of viewers – and I’m not – then I am probably in the minority.That minority quite clearly includes former Bachelor field producer and UnREAL co-creator and producer Sarah Gertrude Shapiro.Shapiro all but told the New Yorker that the show is a way of exorcising her own demons as a feminist who found herself manipulating women in some pretty non-feminist ways during her stint on The Bachelor. Shapiro also said that she’s out to create a show with flawed protagonists with whom the audience still somehow relates. She wants viewers to be uncomfortable, both with the protagonists and the (fictionalized) reality behind reality television.In that, she succeeds. Hers is not a show for binge-watching, unless you are either the world’s most sunshiny person or under a psychiatrist’s care and on some pretty heavy mood-stabilizers. It’s staggering that for a show with so many plot twists, it’s the cringe factor of the casual, manipulative interactions between the staff members that is what stays with you. Even the build-ups to the plot twists, in which everyone is acting at least a little amorally, are usually enough to send a binge-watcher to the closest adoption center to snuggle some puppies. (Though UnREAL has used the fuzzy animal trope to manipulate viewers, too.) UnREAL is deliberately tough, morally ambiguous and designed to make you root for characters you hate       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Contestants’ from UnREAL’s second season. Photograph: Sergei BachlakovIn one sense, as every critic has said, that makes for good television: UnREAL isn’t something you put on in the background while making dinner or flipping through Facebook. It’s not, like the reality dating shows it so viciously skewers, a bit of mental cotton candy, the sweetness of which barely registers at the moment it’s consumed but which, over time, rots your teeth. UnREAL is deliberately tough, deliberately morally ambiguous, deliberately designed to make you root for characters you’d hate if you met them in real life.Shapiro – and others in the industry – have identified her show as part of the new Golden Age of television, in which the complexities of character and plot development once reserved for films have made their way to the small screen en masse. Streaming services such as Netflix, Amazon and Hulu are betting that smart, scripted television can bring in and keep subscribers even as movie studios cut deals for post-theatre blockbusters that keep them off of most streaming services. Meanwhile, cable stations such as Lifetime, once best known for its damsel-in-distress movie-of-the-week programming, are betting that women who wouldn’t be caught dead openly admitting to watching movies of the week, let alone The Bachelorette – though audience data suggests that the regular viewers of reality dating shows are women with both high incomes and master’s degrees – can be enticed to flip the dial or set the DVR for a show that trains a gimlet eye on their guilty pleasures.But is quality, discomfort-producing television really the programming antidote to schlock? Are the women who willfully suspend a lot of disbelief to watch a reality show that offers a contestants 15 minutes of fame, the barest outlines of a princess fantasy and a prince not-so-charming really going to set aside the time to watch a show designed to make them uncomfortable with the manipulation and cynicism that goes into creating their favorite time-waster?One suspects a show like UnREAL is preaching more to the converted than anyone else – and, in an increasingly fragmented media market in which buzz and earned media probably gets you more viewers for a show like UnREAL than all the commercials Lifetime will ever air, maybe that’s enough. But perhaps it’s also worth hoping that there’s some middle ground between Two and a Half Men and Broad City, and between Law & Order: SVU and Breaking Bad, and between Lifetime’s normal programming and something like UnREAL. The problem is that people like me already thought reality dating series were sad and manipulative and avoided them. The question remains whether the people who constitute the regular viewership of reality dating competition shows would ever give UnREAL a try, let alone change their viewing habits because of it. In some way, watching the scripted series, you almost wonder which people the writers of UnREAL are really skewering: the staff of reality shows, the participants, or the ultimate viewers – who allow themselves to be taken in all over again. UnREAL airs on Lifetime Mondays at 10pm ET.