Three weeks ago, I euthanised my 27-year-old horse, Cheque. We’d been together since I was 14 and he was – and remains – my special horse: the one I would ride anywhere and trust with anyone; the one whose moods I could read with a glance. I miss seeing him in my paddock; I miss kissing his nose and how he ate his apples, one tiny bite at a time.The grief associated with losing an animal is a type of disenfranchised grief, one that is not acknowledged broadly; a grief that is too often borne in silence. But the depth of a relationship between a family and their pet is deep and complex; animals become part of the fabric of our lives. They improve our mental health and general wellbeing. They are company for the lonely, and a comfort to the distressed. Paws for thought: how pet therapy is gaining traction The complexity of this relationship is rarely apparent from the outside; full of tiny moments that build up – as they do between people – into something rich and meaningful. And this is reflected in the various ways people cope with and grieve the loss of their pets. When I realised the grief associated with the death of a pet is rarely spoken about, I decided to ask for people’s thoughts and experiences of losing their pets. What helped them while they were grieving? The response was overwhelming. In 24 hours, I received more than a hundred responses. Patterns quickly emerged; methods that helped people cope, and things people struggled with, often in silence.Many people who responded said they were comforted by having their pet’s remains or possessions close to them. A friend of mine, Kim, lost her beloved chihuahua, Paris, more than a year ago. Afterwards, Kim had her cremated and carries some of Paris’s ashes with her in a locket. Dog helps save boy trapped in tumble dryer In fact, there’s an entire industry devoted to helping people create mementoes of your pets when they die. When my mother’s horse died suddenly seven years ago, I found a small business online that would create jewellery and key rings out of your horse’s mane. My mother still carries it with her. Similarly, animal rescuer Bec wore her dog’s collars on her wrist as a bracelet until the ashes came home; she also has photos of her departed pets – three dogs and a budgie – in a locket she always wears. Sarah, another animal rescuer, talked about the pain of losing her dog. “I couldn’t move,” she said. “I couldn’t get up. I could barely eat or drink. It was the worst, most unbearable pain I had experienced in my life.” She still keeps his ashes on her bedside table. I asked Kelsey, a vet nurse from Melbourne, what people do with their animals after their death. “Many of our clients will request a cremation service or to take their pets home with them, rather than an organised burial,” she said. Interestingly, Kelsey also noted people often visit a different clinic to their regular one when it comes time to euthanise their pet.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I miss how he ate his apples, one tiny bite at a time’: Eliza Henry-Jones with her horse Cheque, who died three weeks agoMany people want to tell stories and share memories of their pet when they die. They reach out for comfort. Wikum, a friend of mine, spoke of how confronting it had been watching his family’s dog die in their living room, while his family gathered to pray. He found his belief in reincarnation helped him through the awful time and that, while devastating, he was grateful they were all there and able to soothe their dog’s passing.The grief associated with the death of a pet can become even more complicated when we make the decision to put them down. For many of us, deciding when to euthanise a pet is the only time we are confronted with a life-or-death decision. This decision is compounded by the fact that we cannot ask them what they want; we make the choice entirely on our own, and the responsibility and guilt of it can be crushing. People talked about guilt and stigma – with many not asking for time off work, even though they felt they needed it The number of responses I received – including photos of dead animals, graves and ashes – seems to indicate people don’t have adequate avenues to express their grief. While animals are accepted as being a part of the family, there is still an overwhelming perception their loss is not a truly valid grief. People talked about guilt and stigma – with many feeling uncomfortable asking for time off work, even though they felt they needed it. Even more explained they did not feel properly supported by the people around them. Most of all, people appreciated empathy – an understanding their grief was real and normal. Interestingly, the varied and individual nature of the responses demonstrates we don’t really have defined traditions associated with the death of a pet in our society. While some people craved distance, others craved closeness with their pet’s remains. People dealt with their grief with tattoos – sometimes of a paw print taken at their veterinary clinic – and photos; with ashes and antidepressants; with work and with family. While we often follow traditions associated with the death of a relative, it seems responding to a pet’s death is much more varied. More than 5 million households in Australia have a pet, to say nothing of the rest of the world – but we still have a way to go in how we deal with the grief of losing them.