Swans frontman Michael Gira has defended himself from an accusation of rape, calling it a “slanderous lie”.The allegation against Gira was made by singer-songwriter Larkin Grimm, who posted what she claims to be an account of the pair’s relationship on her Facebook page, including what she says is a detailed recollection of the incident. She described Gira as “my beloved, trusted mentor, really my guru” but claims that he persistently pestered her for sex during their time working together, which she always declined. She goes on to write that one night in 2008, after a night of heavy drinking, Gira asked if he could share a bed with her and she claims he then raped her in her sleep. Gira, however, has described the claims as a “horrible slur”. He also took to Facebook to say: “I am completely shocked myself. I will respond vigorously to defend my name against this horrible slur. I trust in the intelligence of those who have followed my work and respect me as a person, to know this is NOT the person I am. The rumour mill/“confessional” Facebook post travels like fire – but this one is lies.”Grimm had been working with Gira on her album Parplar at the time she refers to. She wrote: “I spent the next six months in a suicidal depression. Michael would call frequently to talk about the progress on my record and to talk dirty to me. He would tell me he loved me and that he would leave his wife for me. I would refuse to talk dirty to him and try to bring the conversation back to business. When we met, the interactions were often sexually charged and I would squirm out of them as best I could. We never had sex again although he tried over and over, making me absolutely miserable.”She adds that when she eventually confronted Gira about the incident, telling him she felt unsafe around him, she was dropped from his Young God label. In his response, Gira has also reposted a statement from his wife, Jennifer, who claims to have proof that the accusations are untrue. She says that Grimm is “mentally unbalanced” and that her words should not be reported as fact.The Guardian have contacted Swans’ press officer for any further comment. 