Civil rights group the National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People (NAACP) has decided against boycotting the 2016 Oscars over all-white lists of nominees.The high-profile organisation said it would instead work with the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in an effort to improve film industry diversity.“We’re not having a formal protest,” Ron Hasson, president of the NAACP’s Hollywood and Beverly Hills, branch told Deadline, revealing the organisation had met with Academy top brass to discuss a way forward. “We met about three weeks ago to discuss diversity issues, and we are in the process of setting up another meeting to continue our discussions. We talked about the business necessity for diversity. We talked about monitoring the Academy and the studios in their diversity efforts. We talked about the need for the Academy to do more advertising in minority newspapers and the minority community to have more understanding about how the Academy operates.”However, Hasson said the group would have no hesitation in moving towards protest should the Academy fail to come up with “concrete proposals” to improve diversity.A number of other civil rights groups, including the LA Urban Policy Roundtable, have said they will picket the Dolby theatre in Los Angeles on Sunday. Al Sharpton’s National Action Network has signalled that its call for a national “tune out” from the Oscars, accompanied by demonstrations across the country, remains in place.NationalActionNet (@NationalAction)#TuneOutOscars #OscarsSoWhite Join us as we tune out Oscars & demonstrate across the country. pic.twitter.com/rRTXeVr0blFebruary 23, 2016The current storm over Oscars diversity began after the Academy failed to nominate a single actor of colour for the second year in a row. Will Smith, Jada Pinkett Smith, Spike Lee, Tyrese Gibson and Michael Moore are among notable figures who have called for a boycott or signalled that they will not be attending the 2016 ceremony.In related news, Jennifer Lawrence has been named the highest-paid 2016 Oscars nominee by Forbes magazine. Lawrence, 25, earned more than $52m between June 2014 and June 2015, ahead of Leonardo DiCaprio’s $29m in second place, and Matt Damon’s $25m in third.Lawrence, who made headlines last year when she wrote candidly about her own experiences with Hollywood’s gender pay gap, is up for the best actress Oscar for her turn as Miracle Mop inventor Joy Mangano in David O Russell’s Joy, though she is widely expected to lose out to Room’s Brie Larson. DiCaprio and Damon are both up for best actor, with the Titanic actor the runaway favourite to take his first Academy award.Oscars opulence will be apparent beyond the bank balances of nominees. Winners on the night will walk up to a stage decorated with more than 200,000 Swarovski crystals and an enormous crystal focus piece weighing more than 9 tonnes, according to USA Today. The set has also been designed using seven shades of gold.Those who do pick up an Oscar would do well to keep a close eye on it. More than half of the statuettes handed out over the ceremony’s 87 years are believed to have been lost, including the best actor prize won in 1951 by the late José Ferrer, the first ever Hispanic winner, for Cyrano de Bergerac. Ferrer’s son Miguel has blasted the Academy for refusing to replace the trophy after it went missing from a University of Puerto Rico vault.“At a time when the Academy is tripping over themselves to be culturally inclusive … my dad won an Oscar in 1951, with an un-Anglicised name, the first Hispanic to ever win an Oscar, and the Academy is so intractable to this day,” Ferrer told the Hollywood Reporter. He said he had been told: “If it’s lost or stolen and the guy’s alive, we replace it. If the guy’s dead, it’s too bad.”Meanwhile, studios are already looking forward to next year’s awards season. The heavily buzzed about slavery drama The Birth of a Nation, which was picked up by Fox Searchlight at the Sundance film festival for a record $17.5m, is being primed for a run at the 2017 Oscars, reports Variety.Nate Parker’s critically acclaimed film about an 1831 uprising that led to 60 white deaths and stricter laws on how slaves could be controlled stars the director himself as revolt leader Nat Turner. It is exactly the kind of Oscar-bait project that could help the Academy mend fences with the African-American community if voters can be persuaded to garland the drama with nominations.