Queen Victoria proved more than a match for Mrs Slocombe and her colleagues when the pair went head to head in the hunt for Sunday night television viewers.ITV’s Victoria, starring Jenna Coleman as the young monarch, beat the BBC’s remake of Are You Being Served? with 30% of the audience share. Former Doctor Who star Coleman starred in the opening feature-length episode of the period drama, in which the young Victoria inherits the throne at the age of 18.ITV has ploughed a huge sum into the eight-part drama about Queen Victoria and the show’s creator, Daisy Goodwin, has said she would be flattered if it enjoyed the same success as Downton Abbey, which ended at Christmas. “It’s very big shoes to fill, but I love Sunday night telly, so if people enjoy watching this as much as they did Downton, then I will feel our work is done.”Victoria, which also stars Rufus Sewell as prime minister Lord Melbourne and will later feature Tom Hughes as Prince Albert, attracted 5.7 million viewers and 6.1 million at its peak on Sunday night.Derren Litten, Benidorm’s creator who penned the Are You Being Served? reboot, tweeted:Derren Litten (@DerrenLitten)Overnight viewing figures are in. ITV's Victoria was always the one to beat but she only just nicked it! #AYBS 5m #Victoria 5.7mAugust 29, 2016The second episode is due to be screened on Monday night and on Sunday 4 September, it will go head to head with the BBC’s hugely popular Poldark in the 9pm slot. Last year Poldark, starring Aidan Turner, launched with nearly 7 million viewers.The BBC’s remake of Are You Being Served? – which has come under fire from critics – also went out at 9pm on Sunday, claiming 5 million viewers and a 24% share of the audience. The sitcom originally ran from 1972 to 1985 and the one-off new episode was set in 1988.Loose Women star Sherrie Hewson played Mrs Slocombe, the character made famous by Molly Sugden, and Bafta Award winner Jason Watkins starred as Mr Humphries, originally played by John Inman.Alongside a new version of the classic BBC series Porridge which went out at 9.30pm on Sunday, Are You Being Served forms part of a season of BBC programmes to mark the 60th anniversary of the birth of the TV sitcom.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The new cast of Are You Being Served in a one-off episode set in 1988. Photograph: Kieron McCarron/BBC/PAThe new version of Porridge was written by Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais, who were behind the original. Sunday’s episode was set in the present day and featured Kevin Bishop as the grandson of Norman Stanley Fletcher, famously played by Ronnie Barker in the 1970s. The programme was watched by 4.4 million and had a peak of 4.6 million.Meanwhile the second instalment of ITV’s The X Factor continued its relative slump. After the first episode returned the programme’s lowest figures for 10 years the second instalment saw a further drop of 500,000 viewers from the launch show.However, ITV said The X Factor was still the most-watched programme of Sunday night, with 6.3 million viewers – peaking at 7.1 million – and a 31% audience share.