The stories told with Southeast Asia’s shadow puppets, better known in the region as ‘Wayang Kulit’, range from adaptations of ancient epics to familiar, domestic sagas. This poem was written in 1977, when the Malayan-born Wong Yoon Wah (by then an outspoken scholar, critic, and award-winning writer) was appointed Director of the Institute of Humanities and Social Sciences at Nanyang University – just as higher education in Singapore was experiencing a period of upheaval. Here, Wong holds his own several identities up to the light, and a candid sense of his inner self shines through.—The editors at Asymptote*****i. BirthA sharp knifepares the leather into shape.A ruthless awlcarves each nub of my character.With a dab of paintI become the singing, dancing dolleveryone loves.ii. Family BackgroundThough I’m a shadowacting in the night’s mystery, I am a child of light,nothing without its beam.The village’s earth is a white gauze.In this soiled world, I can’t find myself.I’ve never left a footprinton the path.I sing movinglybut never with my own voice.At home, I’m a shadow on the screen.On stage: a self you can see.iii. Confession Don’t take mefor one who loves fights,schemes to be king,or hankersafter Solomon’s princesses.A shapeless thread holds each of my four limbs.Being superstitious, I can’t refuse being fate’s plaything.The old man backstagehas my voice in his hands.Whether I’m crying or laughing,he decides.iv. FateIf you go backstagewhen the show ends,you’ll find us – heroes, ladies – allin the arms of the ugly puppeteer. After we’ve been played,our heads are taken down,bodies folded and stacked againin his box, secured with string where patiently, like prisoners,we’ll wait to see the sun.November, 1977Translated from the Chinese by Theophilus Kwek*****Born in Malaysia, Professor Wong Yoon Wah has won Singapore’s Cultural Medallion (1986), Thailand’s South-east Asia Write award (1984), and the ASEAN cultural award (1993). He has published more than 20 books as well as over 50 articles on modern and postcolonial Chinese literature, and is presently senior vice president of Southern University College, Malaysia.Theophilus Kwek has published three collections of poetry, most recently Giving Ground (2016). He won the Jane Martin prize in 2015 and the New Poets prize in 2016. His translation of ‘Moving House’ by Wong Yoon Wah was placed Second in this year’s Stephen Spender Prize for poetry in translation. 