Although so many of us have felt the loss of the inimitable David Bowie, there is a special sort of hollowed-out feeling experienced by the artists whom he influenced. He was that rare kind of musician who not only sustained a five decade-long career but had a powerful influence over global pop culture that went for just as long. Australia was no exception in falling under his spell. And when a current generation of Australian artists – from the Preatures to Midnight Juggernauts – mourn his death and honour the place he occupied in their creative lives, it seems to point at a body of work that’s impact will long outlive its maker.Triple J radio announcer Zan Rowe told Guardian Australia you would be hard pressed to find an Australian musician today who wasn’t influenced by Bowie, be it musically, lyrically, visually or in performance. “Throughout his entire career he never stood still, never compromised and always remained curious – taking us with him on a ride from cabaret performer to singer-songwriter, glam rock to funk and soul and the sonic and lyrical wonders of his Berlin trilogy.'He was like a god': how David Bowie left his mark on some of Australia's finest musicians “The sheer amount of risk-taking and genre flipping throughout his musical life means his music has no boundaries when it comes to influence.”Of the current crop of Australian musicians who have been touched by Bowie’s magic, she said Daniel Johns (formerly of Silverchair) immediately comes to mind. “Not only in the scope of his songwriting but also in his shifting appearance and presentation to his audience.” There is also Bertie Blackman who “inhabits the chameleon nature of Bowie and can just as easily slide between genres and sounds without a hiccup” and solo artist Dreller (Thomas Rawle, formerly of Papa vs Pretty) in whose songwriting one can find Bowie’s spirit beating strong, Rowe said.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Many of the emerging Australian artists we spoke with about his enduring cultural impact emphasised his “chameleonic” powers and dizzying array of influences. Alex Cameron from Adelaide’s Bad//Dreems said this led to “sometimes confusing reinventions” by Bowie: from Ziggy Stardust to the Thin White Duke; flirtations with Nazism and the occult; from coked out LA recluse to avant-garde Berliner.The British artist maintained his artifice and was an ubiquitous cultural icon, yet somehow remained impenetrably enigmatic, Cameron said. His favourite Bowie album is the first of the Berlin trilogy, Low. “Bowie foresaw, pioneered and survived nearly all cultural and musical movements over his career. His output in the past decade remained as vital and surprising as ever.” Bowie made it clear that, musically, you didn’t need to be one thing. You could be one thing and then anotherChristian O’Brien (Alpine) on David Bowie Alpine guitarist Christian O’Brien was 15 when he realised songs Life on Mars and Ashes to Ashes were, in fact, written by the same artist. “Bowie made it clear that, musically, you didn’t need to be one thing. You could be one thing and then another and then another,” he said. The Melbourne band’s singer Lou James said losing Bowie felt like losing Mozart, Debussy, Picasso, Andy Warhol, Buddy Holly and BB King, all in one day.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Izzi Manfredi of Sydney band the Preatures said Bowie “took anything from the world of avant-garde – weird, exotic and mystic art – and made it rock and roll music. There was nothing really off limits with Bowie except boredom. He was a cosmic cut-and-paster. And a songwriter of singular imagination and bravado.” It Gets Better, from the band’s Aria-nominated debut album Blue Planet Eyes, references Bowie’s 1977 song Sound and Vision but there hasn’t been a lot they’ve created or enjoyed from contemporary western pop culture that hasn’t been influenced by him.Bowie was glam rock, spectacle and fantasy. He broke down gender binaries and was an almanac for performance and character, said dancer and choreographer Amrita Hepi. “I feel lucky to have been alive in a time when he was.”As a young queer artist in Sydney, Jack Colwell found in Bowie self-acceptance. “His image and music said it was OK to be different, to be an outsider. His music peppered my life in so many ways. Close friendships I’ve made were made because of his music. Tracks and songs I’ve written and dared to show people were written purely out of his inspiration.”Bowie gave artists licence to pursue their weirdest ideas. For punk musician Ecca Vandal he was an innovator, unaffected by rejection and confident in his artistry and individualism. “He never succumbed to the expectations of the music industry or current trends. He simply created his own.”My David Bowie, alive forever | Suzanne Moore Or, as Melbourne-based, New Zealand-born Jess Cornelius of Teeth & Tongue put it, he “normalised weird”. “When you get stuck in rigid thinking, worrying that your music doesn’t ‘fit’ a genre or style – that it’s not categorisable or it’s inconsistent and it confuses people, or it doesn’t sound like what is cool now, or it’s not aloof enough or it’s too theatrical, or too fun, or not fun enough – you’d just go and listen to David Bowie.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest He has long been a talisman for the freaks, loners and brooding teenagers. Writer Van Badham said “those who fail to understand the magnitude of grief displayed at his passing were perhaps never the loner waiting for the Starman to talk to them, the astronaut losing touch with the earth, the rebel putting out fires with gasoline.“But anyone who has ever felt that way is grieving wildly now, because the Goblin King has withdrawn into the shadows and, without him, our landscape of loners and weirdos is harder to navigate and see.”Too often Badham has travelled into a Bowie album with no desire to ever wander back out, she said. “When I write creatively, it’s Earthling that entrances my concentration for the task. All the albums tease out a particular phase of emotional experience; when I want happiness to last a little longer, I play Pin-Ups.” I realised a musician can create an artistic vision much larger than the songs themselvesVincent Vendetta (Midnight Juggernauts) on David Bowie's influence Electronic pop artists Midnight Juggernauts never shied away from the term “Bowie-esque” being applied to their music. “Acts normally don’t like being compared to others but this is a comparison I can definitely live with,” said singer Vincent Vendetta. When Vendetta at age 10 tried to play Bowie’s winding chords on a guitar, it became immediately obvious his music was much more advanced than typical radio fodder. He was instantly hooked on Bowie’s otherworldly aesthetic. “I realised a musician can create an artistic vision much larger than the songs themselves.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A certain kind of chutzpah is required to perform a Bowie cover. When musician and actor Brendan Maclean performed Rebel Rebel at Melbourne Fashion Week, wearing an electric blue suit in front of a line of towering models, he asked himself, who was he to be singing Bowie? “All I had to do was get the lyrics right and the song did the rest. It was brilliant and I knew why: I’d been given all the artistic tools by the artist who came long before me.”Was David Bowie saying goodbye on Blackstar? He added: “Oh, and listen to his final album Blackstar. It’s a parting gift if there ever was one.”Throughout Bowie’s multiple incarnations, a fascination with space endured. For writer Antonia Hayes, a track like Space Oddity – charting the journey of fictional astronaut Major Tom – perfectly captured the fragility of human connection. His obsession with the mysteries of the universe weaved their way into Hayes’s novel Relativity. “Bowie wasn’t simply a musical genius; he was an astro-visionary and interplanetary philosopher, and the stars really do look very different today.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest But as Hayley Mary from the Jezabels pointed out, through writing about other worlds Bowie illuminated this one better than anyone else. “He taught me that anything belongs to anyone, even the stars. It might seem like that’s the attitude of a dreamer or a fool but if I ever doubted my own tendencies to dream of the oneness of us all, as people, as matter, as beings who are essentially made of the same stuff as stars, then David Bowie would be standing there with the certainty of a God to remind me it was true.”Like so many, Mary was greatly saddened by news of his death. “I never thought he would die. I actually believe he never will.”