Another defeat for Isis, another ancient civilisation rescued from further acts of deliberate destruction. Nimrud, site of one of the great palaces of the Assyrian empire, has been taken by Iraqi forces after a fierce battle with Islamists. The liberation of its ruins follows the Assad regime’s recapture of what’s left of Palmyra earlier this year. Gradually, the vicious war that Isis has waged on antiquity is being rolled back. Damaged and denuded but still there, the ancient sites of the middle east are being reclaimed.Bull of Nimrud destroyed by Isis to be recreated in Rome Archaeologists will now be able to go and find out what is left of the great Northwest Palace of King Ashurnasirpal II (883-859 BC), one of the most splendid and spectacular creations of the ancient Assyrians. Video and photography seemed to show Nimrud being blown up and bulldozed in 2015. Militants were even pictured sawing up stone reliefs and sculptures. It is truly disturbing to see these images of deliberate, vicious, pointless destruction.There has never been a war on culture as systematic as that fought by Isis. We understimate how new this degree of artistic barbarity really is. That word “barbarity” conjures up the barbarians who overran the Roman empire in the 5th century BC. The people who ended Rome’s rule included the Vandals, whose name is still a byword for wanton destruction – and yet these Vandals, Visigoths and other maligned marauders had no real desire to destroy civilisation at all. By the 9th century they gave rise to the emperor Charlemagne who tried to restore and preserve Rome’s heritage. The entire cultural history of Europe from then until the birth of modern times is a tale of repeated classical renewals.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A gold-covered ivory wing decoration excavated at Nimrud, and now held by the British Museum. Photograph: Tony Kyriacou / Rex FeaturesThe Arab invasions that brought Islam to north Africa and Spain in the 7th and 8th centuries were even more sensitive to the classical heritage: far from burning books, these conquerors saved them, translating the works of Aristotle and other Greek authors into Arabic. The great mosque at Cordoba shows how creatively Islam interpreted the classical tradition.The image of barbaric invaders setting out to destroy civilisation is a myth: usually these invaders want to get hold of some culture, not wreck it. When Genghis Khan conquered China in the early 13th century, its culture was not destroyed. On the contrary, the “barbaric” Mongols adopted Chinese civilisation and helped to spread its achievements. Who, in history, has really set out to destroy art? Most conquerors like to pose as friends of culture, not its enemy. Napoleon took scientists and historians with him to Egypt and presented his invasion as as a benign cultural mission. Even Adolf Hitler claimed to be the friend of art, and was still indulging ambitious architectural plans for monumental buildings, indluding a museum, in his last days in the bunker.Isis are true originals in their open hatred of art. Most aggressors in history have at least pretended to love culture, even as their actions damaged it. The only precedents for Isis’s reign of anti-artistic terror are religious. In 2001, the Taliban blew up the Bamiyan Buddhas, beginning a new age of fanatical artistic violence – and there is, in fact, a long history of religious zealots attacking beauty.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘A Christian masterpiece preserved at the heart of an Islamic city’ ... the interior of Hagia Sophia, Istanbul, Turkey. Photograph: Emad Aljumah/Getty Images/Moment OpenIn Reformation Europe, mobs who believed Catholic art was idolatrous attacked statues and smashed stained glass windows. If you really want to see a precedent for the destruction Isis has visited on art, go to any old British parish church. It is highly unlikely to have any pre-Reformation glass. Yes, our quiet churches, too, were victimised by rampaging bigots once. By contrast, when the Ottoman Turks conquered Constantinople in 1453, they did not attack its most beautiful Christian building but made it into a mosque with the most minimal additions. Hagia Sophia stands in Istanbul to this day, a Christian masterpiece preserved at the heart of an Islamic city, a monument to the human capacity to respect art even when it symbolises a fundamentally different belief system.The confession of Ahmad al-Faqi al-Mahdi at the International Criminal Court to destroying treasures at Timbuktu, and his apology for this ignorant, nihilistic attack on culture, perhaps marked a turning point. Let’s hope that as Isis falls back and is defeated, no one will ever again make art so central an enemy.Let’s be clear: there have been catastrophic episodes of religious violence against art before, and war has destroyed many beautiful things. But there has never been an aggressor that so specifically and openly sought to destroy art and antiquity, and carried out this policy at places as revered as Nimrud and Palmyra. The true age of the vandals is not the 5th century but the 21st.