When some of the older residents of Andavadoaka village in southwestern Madagascar were children, they were forbidden to swim in the sea at dawn or dusk, for fear of attracting unwelcome attention from sharks.Today the sharks have all gone. Fished, along with sea cucumbers, for lucrative export markets. Most of the larger fish and invertebrates have also vanished, sold to local markets or consumed by a coastal population that’s doubling in size every 10 to 15 years.Rural Malagasy people in the arid south west have been hit particularly hard by the decline in fish populations. For the nomadic Vezo communities that inhabit this region, seafood is the sole source of protein (pdf) in 99% of household meals. Income is just over a dollar per person per day.And they’re far from alone. At least 97% of the world’s fishers live in developing countries, the vast majority working in small-scale fisheries in the tropics. These traditional fisheries are vital to hundreds of millions of people, providing a lifeline for families and coastal economies, and underpinning food security for entire nations. Already 1.3 billion people live on tropical coasts and are dependent on the planet’s richest yet most threatened marine biodiversity. The Vezo are fighting this ecological crisis. Within the Velondriake Locally Managed Marine Area, nearly 1,000 km2 of seagrass, coral reefs and mangrove forests are managed at a local level. Elected representatives from 25 villages oversee a network of marine reserves, periodic fisheries closures and community-based aquaculture initiatives – all designed to help rebuild local fisheries. Velondriake’s success has inspired a wave of similar grassroots projects, and 34 new Locally Managed Marine Areas have been created around Madagascar’s shores in the past seven years, covering nearly 7% of the country’s seabed.   Small-scale fisheries support the livelihoods of 500 million people worldwide Photograph: Blue VenturesMadagascar isn’t the only country in the region where this local revolution in marine management is underway. One management model piloted in Velondriake, which closed fisheries for three months to allow fish stocks to replenish, has not only been replicated hundreds of times across Madagascar, but is also being adapted by other fisheries in the Indian Ocean. Locally managed marine areas (LMMA) now cover 3.6% of the Indian Ocean’s continental shelf, and almost half of the the western protected areas are now under some form of community stewardship. In Kenya, Mozambique and Tanzania especially, LMMAs are proving to be a cost-effective, resilient and adaptable alternative to the more traditional top-down methods of marine resource management. Around the area, communities are now protecting vast expanses of coral reefs, mangroves, lagoons and beaches, together equivalent to an area exceeding 1.5 million football pitches.These figures show considerable progress towards Aichi Target 11 – the Convention on Biodiversity’s goal to conserve 10% of marine and coastal areas by 2020. Yet despite emerging as a tool of choice in parts of the western Indian Ocean, LMMAs are often hampered by underdeveloped legal structures and compliance procedures. To address these issues, LMMA networks are being established in Madagascar and across the rest of the region so that practitioners can share experiences and best practice. Through promoting local management to other communities and governments, these forums provide a framework to scale-up LMMAs in the region towards a network that is lasting, effective and representative, and that can work alongside centralised conservation efforts.  Over 34 LMMAs have been created around Madagascar’s shores over the past seven years, covering nearly 7% of the country’s seabed Photograph: Blue VenturesBack on Andavadoaka beach, people are seeing real dividends every day because of their work towards conservation. The importance of healthier fisheries is so significant that despite earning less than $2 a day, these people are choosing to pay a levy on catches to help contribute to local fishery management efforts. This is because they have witnessed the benefits from effective community-based fisheries management – real monetary profits are already helping over 100,000 people in Madagascar. Marine conservation is not about wildlife preservation here – it’s about survival.In the broader marine conservation community, we can learn from the LMMAs about how a community can re-imagine conservation. Coastal populations can look beyond self-interest to learn that taking less from our oceans can yield more.Alasdair Harris is founder of Blue Ventures. Follow Alasdair on Twitter @aarhh. stories like this:• How development organisations can tackle the fisheries challenge• Could aquaculture solve Africa’s fishing crisis? • Counting trees to save the woods: using big data to map deforestation• Advertisement feature: Insights from a warming world Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.