“If women ruled the world, we wouldn’t have wars. We’d just have intense negotiations every 28 days,” Robin Williams once quipped. This is a funny joke, if one that might niggle at some women as being a little patronising. Would we not chase power? Would we not start conflicts? It is a reality we have never known, and one we may never see.Such a scenario plays out in Y: The Last Man, a series of comic books written by Brian K Vaughan – also famous for the excellent Saga – and artist Pia Guerra. Some of the best storytelling around can be found in comics, and Y: The Last Man is a fine example of just how good they can be.Our hero Yorick, is, like Hamlet’s jester, “a fellow of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy”; he is an amateur magician, a niche career that provides a handy skill set for someone trying to survive the obliteration of his sex. A mysteriously sex-specific plague wipes out the 2.9 billion men on earth, plus all male animals. Everything with a Y chromosome is dead – all except two.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Yorick’s introduction. Photograph: DC ComicsAlas, poor Yorick – and his pet monkey Ampersand – must venture out into this new, deadly world. Strange counterfactuals emerge in Vaughan’s tale, as a result of the very real disparities we live with every day. As airline pilots are overwhelmingly male, almost all planes drop out of the sky, killing thousands. Most of the world’s billionaires and landowners are suddenly dead, as are 85% of government representatives and 100% of imams, Orthodox Jewish rabbis and Roman Catholic priests. The US suddenly has no ground troops; Israel, which has compulsory military service for all young women, is suddenly comparatively powerful. Ninety-five per cent of the US’s ship captains and truck drivers are gone, and with Australia, Norway and Sweden being the only countries that allow women to serve on submarines, the seas fall suddenly quiet (Y: The Last Man was published in 2002, a whole decade before the UK and the US began allowing women in the navy).In one scene, a woman laments the death of rock’n’roll – the Who, U2, Radiohead and the remaining Beatles are all suddenly gone. “We’ve got to pick up where those boys left off,” she tells a disguised Yorick, rather cheerfully. “Channel some of that Janis mojo.”Other women are less troubled with their new surroundings and consider it the start of a new utopia. Yorick’s sister Hero (named after Beatrice’s foil in Much Ado About Nothing – yes, their father was a Shakespeare academic) is taken in by the Amazons, an extremist feminist group whose members burn off one of their breasts to emulate the Amazonian archers of history. Yorick initially dismisses them as “roving packs of pissed-off lesbians”, but they soon reveal themselves to be a persistent threat to his life. Vaughan clearly does not subscribe to the idea that women are incapable of violence or war.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: DC ComicsIn such apocalyptic settings, Yorick’s survival is an act of defiance. Some women see him as the last chance for future generations of humanity; others see him as the last memory of the patriarchy. Keeping him free from both sides requires active effort from his companions, the American spy, Agent 355, and biologist Dr Alison Mann. Both are motivated by a sense of greater good – Agent 355, duty bound to the new president and Dr Mann, determined to clone Yorick and preserve humanity’s future.Y: The Last Man, which ran over 60 issues, finished in 2008. Stephen King calls it the best graphic novel he’s ever read. So don’t just take it from me.You may wonder about this series’s theme – why defiance? We ran a books series earlier in 2016 exploring the theme of hope. It seemed appropriate at the time: it was August, and everyone was reeling from the Brexit vote, as well as bracing themselves for the then-impending US election.Since then, we have seen readers looking for books to inspire rather than to soothe. Hope can feel intangible – but defiance seems practical. We put this theme to you all earlier in December on our reading group and the mix of books you recommended was very exciting: One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest by Ken Kesey, Toni Morrison’s Beloved, The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress by Robert Heinlein, the Asterix comics. We eventually settled on Chuck Palahniuk’s Fight Club but we’d love to see your other picks. As we publish our series, let us know the books of defiance you would recommend to others below the line and we’ll run a top 10 in 2017. Or don’t – defy me.