MPs have voted to introduce a bill to parliament on whether or not England should be given its own official national anthem.Using a 10-minute rule motion in parliament, the Labour MP Toby Perkins proposed that a public consultation be launched to decide which song would be best. MPs agreed on Wednesday that the bill should be given its second reading in parliament in March.While Scotland and Wales have their own anthems, England does not, and God Save the Queen is usually sung at sporting events when an English team is playing. Northern Irish sports teams also usually sing the UK national anthem.Pass notes No 3,211: Jerusalem “I would like to say at the outset that I am neither a republican, nor an atheist nor an English nationalist ... Members should detect no hostility in me towards God, her majesty the Queen, to God Save the Queen or to the United Kingdom,” said Perkins, MP for Chesterfield. “Indeed it is precisely out of respect to preserving many of these things that I believe the time has come to consider the question of an English national anthem.”Perkins added: “The level of interest in this confirms to me that an anthem for England is a movement whose time has come and, as is often the case, it is for us in this parliament to catch up with public opinion and allow the voice of England to be heard.”David Cameron has previously said that Jerusalem – the musical setting of a William Blake poem – would be his choice for an English national anthem.Jerusalem has proved the most popular choice in recent polls, and was chosen to be played for English athletes competing in the 2010 Commonwealth Games in Delhi following a month-long public vote. Edward Elgar’s Land of Hope and Glory often comes second in polls, and was used at the Commonwealth Games before 2010.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Giles Fraser: It’s time England had its own national anthemIt was not the first time the issue has been heard in parliament. In April 2007 the Liberal Democrat MP Greg Mulholland introduced an early day motion calling for English sporting associations to “adopt an appropriate song that English sportsmen and women, and the English public, would favour when competing as England”.And in 2006 the Conservative MP Daniel Kawczynski introduced an early day motion calling for Jerusalem to be given official status as the national anthem of England.The 10-minute rule allows a backbench MP to make their case for a new bill in a speech lasting up to 10 minutes. MPs then vote on whether or not the bill should be introduced and, if successful, it goes on to have its second reading. Such bills rarely make it into the statute books.Chris Bryant MP (@RhonddaBryant)I hope everyone campaigning for Jerusalem as the England anthem realises Blake was satirising English nationalism.January 13, 2016The Queen’s cousin, Margaret Rhodes, told the Sunday Express: “We have been happily singing God Save the Queen for ever – I don’t see the need to change it. The Queen has always said she’s only there for as long as people want her, but I should think they’d think it’s rather rude. As far as I’m concerned it’s a silly idea.”Opposing Perkins’s proposal, Conservative MP Jacob Rees-Mogg said: “What greater pleasure can there be for a true-born English man or true-born English woman to listen to our own national anthem?“A national anthem for our whole country, for our whole United Kingdom, of which England is but a part, but an important part. And to listen to those words that link us to our sovereign, who is part of that chain that takes us back to our immemorial history.”Alison McGovern (@Alison_McGovern)Can hear the soft tones of 'Jerusalem' wafting towards my office. Not sure, but suspect @tobyperkinsmp is somehow responsible...January 13, 2016England national anthem: 10 alternative suggestions Ahead of Perkins’s speech to MPs, a protester in a white van adorned with England flags spent the morning driving around Parliament Square playing Jerusalem over a loudspeaker.Perkins said that Jerusalem seemed to be an early favourite among members of the public who had engaged with him on the subject. “I have no way of knowing whether there is a way of putting people off William Blake’s classic tune, but if there is I suspect driving round and round Parliament Square with a van blaring it out might be precisely the way to achieve that,” said Perkins. “I have to say you can’t always chose your friends in these matters.”