Meng Fei has a tip for candidates looking to succeed on the long-running Chinese dating show he hosts, If You Are the One. “Every person has a lot of dating criteria – for example, height, appearance, income, education. So I think rather than trying to excel in a particular criterion, one should ensure you do not fail in any.”If You Are the One: call for Australian lonely hearts on Chinese dating show Delivered with signature wryness, his reply has an almost Confucian ring to it: conformity over individuality, it’s better not to rock the boat – even when it’s a love boat.It’s been five years of blockbuster ratings since the show first aired on Jiangsu Satellite Television in 2010. The show has remained consistent over the years: one male contestant stands at the mercy of a rotating cast of young women. After making his sales pitch, the women one by one pull themselves out of the running (never was there a sadder sound than the beuuuu of an If You Are the One contestant pressing her reject button).If You Are the One began syndicating to Australia’s SBS in 2013 and audiences there love the show for the same reason as locals – the ritual humiliation of contestants courtesy of acid-tongued cut-downs, endless flashy peacocking and a roll call of cringe-inducing confessions (“Basically, I have no interests and I have no talent,” said one woman).It’s November, and Meng is in a chic Sydney hotel to promote the show and speak at a forum discussion at Western Sydney University. He is surrounded by a gaggle of production staff, some of whom have been busy auditioning candidates for the upcoming special Australian episode. He peers warily at me from behind his glasses, hands neatly folded on one knee. At one point he will remark, “Your questions doesn’t sound like that of an entertainment reporter – more like a political reporter!”Speed dating in China – in pictures This will be the show’s second Australia special, featuring 16 Australian women and 10 Australian men mainly of Chinese heritage. Among the non-Chinese contestants is PR manager from Melbourne, Bai Lisha, who in the episode introduces herself in impeccable Mandarin as a “third-generation Italo-Australia”. When asked by Meng how her Chinese was so good, she replies with a winning smile, “I must have been Chinese in a previous life,” then sings a couple of lines of Chinese opera. Snippets of song, dance and poetry recital are commonly performed by the show’s contestants, in a kind of PG-rated mating ritual.I ask Meng if there are differences in the rules of attraction between Chinese people and foreigners. Chinese people, he says, are often puzzled by the kind of Chinese women that foreign men are attracted to: “Girls to us that are quite plain, not good looking at all; foreign boys think they are beautiful and take them away.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Six years of helming the dating den has meant Meng has witnessed 60,000 love hopefuls and fame seekers who’ve volunteered to put themselves through the If You Are the One wringer: that’s thousands of hair-tossing young women, thousands of dejected young men. One presumes he’d know a thing or two about how to walk away from the studio doors hand-in-hand with a successful match. It boils down to this: men are looking for a pretty woman and women are looking for a rich man.Meng Fei “It boils down to this: men are looking for a pretty woman and women are looking for a rich man,” he says, a touch flippantly. (If Osher Günsberg, host of The Bachelor Australia, attempted a statement like that, it would be punctuated with the sound of a thousand Twitter users sharpening their pitchforks.)Meng adds that “having a good personality” is also important, of course, and beauty is subjective – “but looking for beauty is universal for men”. What it comes down to, he says, is suitability. He mentions yuanfen, a Chinese concept not easily translated into English that’s about blending serendipity with affinity.Early in its run, the show made headlines after a female contestant called Ma Nuo rejected a suitor’s invitation to share a bicycle ride with the witty quip: “I’d rather sit and cry in a BMW.” The line seemed emblematic of contemporary China, flush with post-reform money and in the grips of a new era of “greed is good”-style materialism. By May, the state’s propaganda department had issued a directive calling dating shows like If You Are the One “vulgar”, and ordering a clean-up.The show began curbing overt mentions of financial wealth and sex and installed a psychology teacher named Huang Han. Huang, along with Meng and the other co-hosts, act as mentors who also inject the show with sideline banter. Meng said: “We would like to provide a kind of rational guidance or advice to young people.” So, more hip aunt and uncles than parental figures. If You Are The One: feeding bachelors to the lions on China's top dating show Meng acknowledges any show as popular as If You Are the One – 30 million viewers in China alone – was bound to influence public values, but “may not be so serious as many people would think. Everyone has their own way of thinking and then they form their own views. This show is really about demonstration. We show things rather than draw any conclusions.”For many, If You Are the One is a fascinating window into the lives of the country’s post-90s generation. “China today is a more and more diverse society – each person, their home life, their background, is different.” But such differences in circumstances do not necessarily stand in the way of love when there is a willingness to support each other’s dreams, he says. “Finding that person is a big challenge.”The Australian specials of If You Are the One air on SBS 2, at 7.30pm Sunday 14 February and 7.30pm Sunday 21 FebruaryThis article was amended on 12 February. The button sound was incorrectly listed as bra-bra and amended to beuuuu