1 | Ian and Adam’s civil partnershipSuggested by Ashness and Carole SeheultOne in a long series of Archers nuptials, the civil partnership of Adam Macy and Ian Craig in December 2006 rocked the boat. Their kiss in a strawberry field was the first gay embrace in the programme’s history. This plotline figures in The Archers’ attempts to join the 21st century, much to the chagrin of some more traditional listeners. The programme received vociferous criticism but nonetheless ploughed on to make a vital milestone in Archers plot history.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tom Graham as Tom Archer.2 | Tom’s sausagesSuggested by BunnReader Bunn mandates that ”anything to do with Tom’s sausages” would be a plotline to give the very best a run for their money. The hapless farm manager Tom Archer, played by Tom Graham, kept everyone entertained with his sausage shenanigans, even self-styling himself the “sausage king”. This role was cruelly snatched from him in 2014 in a recasting that saw actor Tom end his 17-year tenure on the programme.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bob Arnold as Tom Forrest and Lewis Gadge as Bob Larkin.3 | The death of Bob LarkinSuggested by Carole SeheultIn 1957, Bob Larkin is out poaching when he is shot by Tom Forrest, for which the latter is charged with manslaughter but later acquitted. This vintage storyline has always been a highlight of Ambridge mysteries. The motive? Bob Larkin was a rival for the affections of barmaid Pru Harris, whom Tom later married. But we’ll never know what really happened.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Elephants: guaranteed good value at a fete.4 | Walter Gabriel’s elephantsSuggested by MatthewCobb A firm favourite in many Archers polls, the appearance in the 1960s of two elephants at the summer fete shook up the usual livestock scene. Lovable and loamy-voiced Walter Gabriel, ever inventive, came up with two elephants, Rosie and Tiny Tim, as part of his schemes to raise money at the fete. Added to the list were also, in no particular order: steam trains, performing seals, a hot air balloon, and a ventriloquist’s dummy called Marmaduke. Walter’s phrase “Me old pal, me old beauty” remains one of the most enduring of the series’ long history, providing much-needed comic relief.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jack May playing Nelson Gabriel in the BBC Studio.5 | Nelson Gabriel’s disappearanceSuggested by Ruinart and AshnessThe son of Walter Gabriel, Nelson (played by Jack May) first appeared on the programme in 1957, finally vanishing in mysterious circumstances. Something of a louche cad, he was once voted the greatest rogue in the series’ history, and was a Lovejoy-esque combination of antiques dealer and wine bar owner, no doubt part of the reason that user Ruinart claims that “anything to do with Nelson” would be good.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ferrets beware: Joe Grundy.6 | Joe Grundy’s ferret-bludgeoningSuggested by RobertSmithReflecting the often harsh reality of dwindling farm profits, Archers stalwart Joe Grundy succumbs to depression and moves with his family to a sink estate in Borchester, but not before he bludgeons his own ferrets to death. Unsurprisingly, this proved to be one of the most harrowing plot lines on The Archers to date, with many unsuspecting listeners subjected to a disturbing descent into despair and violence (“Not the ferrets! Put the hammer down!”) Moving back some time after, Joe is now Ambridge’s oldest living resident. Which is, sadly, more than you can say for the ferrets.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Richard Derrington as Mark Hebden with Judy Bennett as Shula Archer.7 | The death of Mark HebdenSuggested by HeathermaryHebden’s tragic demise in a car accident shocked the listening public in 1994. As Shula Archer’s first husband, Mark was the sporty solicitor always trying to appease his wife. His shock death occurred as he swerved in the road to avoid Shula’s best friend Caroline Sterling, who had been thrown from her horse. Heathermary admits it was “the only time I’ve actually liked Shula”.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michael Fenton Stevens as Paul Morgan and Sunny Ormonde as Lilian Bellamy.8 | Lilian Bellamy’s affairSuggested by Carole SeheultA mainstay since 2003, merry widow Lilian Bellamy is good value for money with her rollicking machinations and liking for a G&T. Her husband Matt Crawford is imprisoned for fraud, and she starts an affair with Matt’s half-brother Paul Morgan (pictured above). Paul tragically dies six months later, putting an abrupt end to the extramarital situation, a twist that further shocked an already scandalised listenership.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Betty Tucker’s death shocked Archers fans.9 | Betty Tucker’s deathAlso suggested by Carole SeheultThe death of Betty Tucker plunged audience members into shock in 2005. Betty died at home after returning from hospital after suffering a heart attack the week before. The character’s demise was all down to actor Pamela Craig, who had played the role of Betty for 31 years, deciding to step down. The end came as a shock, all the more harrowing for her speaking through an oxygen mask in the studio for added authenticity.  Scruff the dog was feared lost in the 2015 Ambridge flooding.10 | Scruff the dogSuggested by bobbymac1956 and greendreamerDuring heavy floods, it was feared that the body of Lynda Snell’s dog Scruff had caused a blockage following his apparent disappearance. User bobbymac1956 describes experiencing “all the five stages of grief” at the potential of this outcome, but this one of Ambridge’s many furry friends defied the odds to survive the flooding, to unanimous relief.