“I saw a big pipe spewing out raw sewage into the East River, and I thought: ‘I’m the pipe, the sewage is my songs and the river is the world.’” That is how Fred “FM” Cornog decided on the name East River Pipe – perhaps the most tragically mundane band name in history, but one that feels entirely appropriate for his timid yet defiant one-man symphonies. Long before the idea of home recording gained mainstream acceptance, Cornog quietly dug a niche for himself as an outsider pop craftsman, a songwriter of rare melodic gifts sidelined by a cruel and shallow world. “Bring on the loser,” he sang proudly on 1995’s Poor Fricky. Cornog’s stoicism in the face of society’s indifference helped him create music of sometimes overwhelming poignancy.Growing up in suburban New Jersey in the 70s, Cornog was into top 40 radio and Tom Verlaine when all around him dug heavy rock. Various attempts to form or join bands ended in disaster, so he began to record alone. He took various menial jobs – carpet warehouse, lightbulb factory – before succumbing to drug and alcohol addiction. He became homeless, sleeping on benches at Hoboken train station. But eventually one of his tapes found his way to a woman called Barbara Powers, who sought him out, gave him shelter, started a label to release his music and eventually became his wife.Cornog was saved, though he’d seen enough in his years on the streets to provide him with a lifetime’s worth of material about the travails of the little guy. He also deduced that the music business was a complacent sham. East River Pipe would remain outside it all, untainted by careerism or collaboration. East River Pipe’s music first found its way to the UK via the cult indie label Sarah Records. The association made perfect sense, since Cornog’s music – fragile and bereft but also shimmering and resourceful – shared many similarities with that of Sarah’s flagship band, the Field Mice. The two mini-albums East River Pipe released on Sarah – Goodbye California (1993) and Even the Sun Was Afraid (1995) – remain the finest distillation of his essence. The likes of Dogman and Sleeping With Tallboy revisit his time sleeping rough without seeking pity or redemption, while the brilliant Make a Deal With the City reveals his coping mantra: “Sometimes just blow up / Sometimes just deflate / Sometimes just hang on / Sometimes pull the weight.”While some of his 90s alt-rock peers used lo-fi recording techniques as an ideological attack on mainstream rock, Cornog – who had no choice but to record at home – tried to explore the possibilities of the eight-track recorder, layering his vocals and coating everything in generous reverb to the point where even his basic, slo-mo drum-machine beats attained a kind of humble majesty. Listen to songs such as Powerful Man and Flyin’ Lyin’ Dyin’ and you can hear why New York Times once called him “the Brian Wilson of home recording” – not just for his meticulous layering of sounds but in the way he yearns for a simpler, less vicious world.Cornog’s songs aren’t designed for mass consumption, but whenever they do connect with an audience they tend to connect deeply. Lambchop’s Kurt Wagner became a superfan, covering no less than three East River Pipe songs on their 1997 album Thriller, before nabbing a couple more for the follow-up, What Another Man Spills. The songs lose nothing in translation from Queens apartment to Nashville porch, proving that Cornog could have branched out if he’d wanted to.He didn’t, although he did enjoy a fleeting moment of critical acclaim. His 1999 album The Gasoline Age – a concept album about the loneliness of the US highway that came on like a pocket-sized Bruce Springsteen – was anointed album of the year by the New York Times and the Independent.His subsequent albums are well worth seeking out for songs such as Backroom Deals and Shut Up and Row, in which Cornog’s frustrations take on a more overtly political dimension. He has refined his trademark sound over the years but in essence nothing much has changed. There are no guest musicians, remixes or anything to distract from the purity and consistency of the Cornog vision. Hopefully, he’ll continue to pump his sewage into the East River for many years to come.