She always declares she will never marry, which, of course, means just nothing at all, But I have no idea that she has yet ever seen a man she cared for. It would not be a bad thing for her to be very much in love with a proper object.   Pride and Prejudice by Jane Austen    Persuasion by Jane Austen    Sense and Sensibility by Jane Austen    Emma by Jane Austen The forest-dell, where Lowood lay, was the cradle of fog and fog-bred pestilence; which, quickening with the quickening spring, crept into the orphan Asylum, breathed typhus through its crowded school-room and dormitory, and, ere May arrived, transformed the seminary into an hospital.   Hard Times by Charles Dickens    Asylum by Patrick McGrath    Jane Eyre by Charlotte Bronte    The Eyre Affair by Jasper Fforde If we are to insist on the contingency of feminine characteristics as the product of conditioning, we will have to argue that the masculine-feminine polarity is actual enough, but not necessary.   On Sexuality by Sigmund Freud    The Female Eunuch by Germaine Greer    Rights of Women by Mary Wollstonecraft    How to Be a Woman by Caitlin Moran Lombard looked thoughtfully at the man’s twitching face, his dry lips, the fright in his eyes. He remembered the crash of the falling coffee tray. He thought, but did not say, "Oh yeah?"   Crash by JG Ballard    Casino Royale by Ian Fleming    Earthly Powers by Anthony Burgess    And Then There Were None by Agatha Christie I put the figger and the dead han in my pockit then qwick I grabbit Phists han in boath of myn and wirlt roun fas and slung him over my sholder head 1st in to the much I cudnt do nothing else to save my life.   Trainspotting by Irvine Welsh    Riddley Walker by Russell Hoban    The Book of Dave by Will Self    As I Lay Dying by William Faulkner Without religious principles, a man would have to be actually crazy to pursue harsh and painful virtue, give up the pleasures of life, and suffer pain from which he can expect no advantage. For if there is no reward after death, a man has no compensation for having passed his entire existence without pleasure, that is, miserably.   The Golden Bough by James Frazer    The God Delusion by Richard Dawkins    Utopia by Thomas More    Psychology and Religion by Carl Jung She had a blue nimbus, the blue of sex or sadness. Any eyes that were available on the dead-end street would find their way to her: builders in their gutted houses, a frazzled rep in a cheap car, a man alone at home pressing his face against a window pane with a snarl.   Sweet Tooth by Ian McEwan    The Big Sleep by Raymond Chandler    London Fields by Martin Amis    True Blue by David Baldacci They came to an old iron bridge in the woods where the vanished road had crossed an all but vanished stream. He was starting to cough and he'd hardly breath to do it with. He dropped down out of the roadway and into the woods. He turned and stood gasping, trying to listened. He heard nothing. He staggered on another half mile or so and finally dropped to his knees and put the boy down in the ashes and leaves. He wiped the blood from his face and held him. It's okay, he said. It's okay.   The Road, Cormac McCarthy    Worstward Ho by Samuel Beckett    Oryx and Crake by Margaret Atwood    About a Boy by Nick Hornby My uncle Toby blushed as red as scarlet as Trim went on – but it was not a blush of guilt – of modesty – or of anger –– it was a blush of joy; –– he was fired with Corporal Trim’s project and description.   Toby’s Room by Pat Barker    Tristram Shandy by Laurence Sterne    Tom Jones by Henry Fielding    Men at Arms by Evelyn Waugh Yesterday morning I went to the doctor. Was taken, by a Guardian, one of those with the red armbands who are in charge of such things.”   The Yellow Wallpaper by Charlotte Perkins Gilman    The Handmaid’s Tale by Margaret Atwood    Nineteen Eighty-four by George Orwell    Writing Home by Alan Bennett Boleyn is still smiling. He is a poised, slender man; it takes the effort of every tuned muscle in his body to keep the smile on his face.   The Other Boleyn Girl by Philippa Gregory    Henry VIII: King and Court by Alison Weir    1066 and All That by WC Sellar and RJ Yeatman    Wolf Hall by Hilary Mantel And deep down it was all the same to me whether I sucked a different stone each time or always the same stone, until the end of time. For they all tasted exactly the same.   How Late It Was, How Late by James Kelman    Molloy by Samuel Beckett    Hunger by Knut Hamsun    Stig of the Dump by Clive King Staffers rotated Specials-duty every hour, ostensibly so that whoever was on duty was always fresh and keenly observant, but really because simply sitting there at the foot of a bed looking at somebody who was in so much psychic pain she wanted to commit suicide was incredibly depressing and boring and unpleasant, so they spread the odious duty out as thin as they possibly could, the staffers.   Infinite Jest by David Foster Wallace    One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest by Ken Kesey    CivilWarLand in Bad Decline by George Sanders    What a Carve Up! by Jonathan Coe "Did you say blue eyes, Archie, love?" said Maureen, speaking slowly so she might find a way to phrase it. "I'm not bein' funny... but in't your wife, well, coloured?"   Before She Met Me by Julian Barnes    Brick Lane by Monica Ali    Something to Tell You by Hanif Kureishi    White Teeth by Zadie Smith The abbot, who was small and totally bald and had more wrinkles than a sackful of prunes, opened his eyes. "You're late," he whispered, and died.   Small Gods by Terry Pratchett    Mort by Terry Pratchett    The Shepherd's Crown by Terry Pratchett    Reaper Man by Terry Pratchett You got…Well done!Have you ever got as far as page 69 in a book before?So close, yet so far. Try again?Oof. Check our what you got wrong and try again!Challenge your friendsSubmit answers