Amazon streams two new TV pilots – one that's great and one that's terrible You can’t fault The Girlfriend Experience’s timing. With Game of Thrones, Silicon Valley and Veep over for the year, Orange is the New Black already binged to completion, and linear television still packed solid with nothing but football and misery, people are crying out for something smart, daring and new to watch. The Girlfriend Experience appeared on Amazon Prime this week, and not a minute too soon.The series is superficially based on Steven Soderbergh’s 2009 film of the same name. But where that was gossamer thin – a wispy mediation on last decade’s banking crisis – this is a full-blown story with a clear sense of its own momentum and trajectory. “Watch a couple of episodes and see what you think,” my editor told me on Monday. I ended up watching all 13 in one go, and I have never been happier to be so far behind on my work.Like the movie, The Girlfriend Experience is a story of prostitution. It follows a young law student – played in a genuinely star-making turn by Elvis Presley’s granddaughter Riley Keough – as she takes her first steps in the profession, while attempting to balance her studies and an internship at a brazenly corporate law firm. It was co-created and co-written by Amy Siemetz, director of the 2012 thriller Sun Don’t Shine and star of Shane Carruth’s Upstream Color, and Carruth himself provided the cold, synthy score. The pedigree of the talent runs deep, and pays off in its refusal to be what you expect.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The closest television analogue to The Girlfriend Experience, at least in the UK, is probably the dreadful Billie Piper vehicle Secret Diary of a Call Girl. But where that was one-dimensional and camp – a whoops-a-lummy wad of embarrassingly British Carry On fluff that started badly and went nowhere – this is steely and naturalistic, and loose enough to flow into all kinds of genres, sometimes several at once.You will need to persevere a little because the first couple of episodes are easily the worst of the lot. They are a cookie-cutter, by the numbers origin story, telling the story of a nice girl experimenting with prostitution and staring off into the distance in a heavyhanded demonstration of personal disconnect. It is nothing you haven’t already seen a hundred times before.But Siemetz and her co-creator Lodge Kerrigan are too restless to stay on course for long. Without giving too much away, the series jumps the rails after three or four episodes and becomes something much more complex. It is part suffocating horror story, part nail-biting legal thriller, part Breaking Bad-style transformation study. It is sexy – it aired on Starz in the US, so it actually borders on gratuitous – but the sex is by far the least interesting thing about it. The Girlfriend Experience is a story about greed, and the parts of yourself for ever lost in the rush for success.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘A story about greed, and the parts of yourself for ever lost in the rush for success’ … The Girlfriend Experience. Photograph: APEven if you struggle with it at first, the series is worth persevering with solely for the final episode. Mostly comprised of one long scene that starts in the middle and unfolds outwards, it is both staggeringly confident and beautifully executed – like nothing else you will watch this year.Siemetz and Kerrigan say they envisage The Girlfriend Experience as an anthology series – it may return, but with different characters and story. While that is sad in a way – a world has been very carefully constructed here, and now it is doomed for dismantlement – it does make sense in light of the finality, however ambiguous, of the very last scene. God, that last episode. It is killing me that I can’t be any more specific. Look, just watch it, and then come back and we’ll talk about it then, OK?