Like any big music star, Kenny Chesney is used to people reaching out to shake his hand from the front rows of his stadium shows. But he hasn’t forgotten the woman in New Jersey last summer who clasped her hands in his, drew him close, but never looked at him once. “She was looking at her phone,” he remembers. “She was so lost in the noise of it all, she missed the human connection. It was sad.”A risk of success is the cheapening of the message, and sometimes the messenger. Which is why on Cosmic Hallelujah, his 17th album, Chesney moves another step closer to transforming his role as one of mainstream country’s most enduring stars to an artist newly invested in both challenging himself and pushing his audience – his fans are known as the No Shoes Nation – even if they are fine with the way things are. Chesney is 48 and while the world has certainly changed since 1999, when he released She Thinks My Tractor’s Sexy, he’s changed along with it. “There’s more to my life than escapism,” he says. “I love that part of my life, but it is more important now to talk about other things. It’s where I am at right now.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Cosmic Hallelujah is the album destined to grow his audience, although with 28 No 1 records on the country chart, he hasn’t exactly underserved them. But Americana fans would find much to admire here through songs like Jesus and Elvis, a bittersweet story told with traditional country elements and featuring his finest singing in years. And while songs like Bucket and Bar at the End of the World are guaranteed gravy for his blockbuster live shows, Hallelujah also makes space for more thoughtful material that reflect both the anxiety of the times and the determination to move through it.The centerpiece is Noise, the album’s first single, which blasts through the digital overload of daily life. The lyrics appeared like a flood and, with songwriters Ross Copperman, Shane McAnally and Jon Nite, Chesney crafted a dramatic treatise on the possibility we are becoming numb to intimacy. Unlike other songs that tackle the same subject, Noise is less ripped from the headlines and more from his own personal diary. “I felt it was affecting my creativity and my personal relationships,” he says of the onslaught of 24/7 connectivity. “I felt I was texting ‘I love you’ instead of telling people I loved them.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Unplugging now translates to leaving the cellphone off the table during dinners. But Chesney has the unique perspective of seeing just how immersed people have become in removing themselves from the present moment when he looks out from the stage of a football stadium and sees 50,000 people staring back at him through their screens.“It’s very frustrating, any entertainer will tell you they hate it,” he says. “Especially for me – I want to look at everybody straight in the eye and make them feel something and it’s really hard to do that if they’re not looking at you but they’re looking at their phone. They’re missing the connection and taking fragments home with them. It’s like looking at a bookshelf of books but you don’t read any of them, you just read a little bit of each.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sun, sea and stetsons: Chesney on the beach. Photograph: Ann AllisterChesney arrived in Nashville not long after he graduated from East Tennessee State University in 1990. He immediately logged years in the downtown honky-tonks while signing a publishing deal, which led to his first album, In My Wildest Dreams, in 1994. Back then he was a newcomer who had a voice comparable to George Strait and by the next decade he handily filled the shoes of Garth Brooks because of an abundance of hits and a natural ability to translate them to arena-sized audiences. As a new generation country artist who was also raised on classic rock, Chesney’s populist touch continued to grow through albums that reliably combined upbeat sentiments from the sun-and-sand belt.But it was with The Big Revival, his album from 2015, that things turned a corner. Unusually prolific, with a new album out almost every year, Chesney took a full year to concentrate on the record that eventually covered a range of emotional ground. It also helped that he pledged not a single song would mention a truck.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Hallelujah continues that thread with songs that, for Chesney, were collected because they focus on the “stillness and balance” of life in the present. Setting the World On Fire, a duet with Pink, reflects that maturity with its small moments that, near the end, explode into bliss; Small Town Somewhere brings listeners to images reminiscent of Luttrel, Tennessee, Chesney’s hometown, where he remembers standing in the yard behind his grandmother’s house and looking at the sky dreaming if there was anything beyond the county line. Luttrel, located about 20 minutes outside Knoxville, is slightly different today than he remembers. Now the distance between the small town and big city is pocketed by suburban sprawl. He can go home again – his grandmother and mother still live in the area – but when he does he is reminded of those early years. How I quit my smartphone addiction and really started living “That song is very much the truth. I only had certain things – sports, church, school, and family, and that was it,” says. “I was a wondering kid.”The song Chesney says he never would have recorded five years ago is Rich and Miserable, which he admits is not just about the monetary riches he’s enjoyed but the ambition that makes climbing the endless ladder an exercise in addiction. The song is structured as an anthem that could easily pull an audience to it in the chorus, a nihilistic agreement that “enough is never enough”. “We’re too young until we’re too old/We’re all lost on the yellow brick road,” he sings. “American dream never wakes up.”The problem may be uniquely American, but he says it is also directly personal. “When can you be happy and still be hungry and work hard? I struggle with that,” he says.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Hallelujah is co-produced by Chesney with Buddy Cannon, a country music veteran who has been at the helm of the majority of his catalog. Their working relationship is unusual in that it has lasted so long and is also multi-generational. Cannon, 69, has written songs for George Strait and Mel Tillis and his production credits run from George Jones to Willie Nelson to Merle Haggard. Chesney says he remains indebted to Cannon because he was the first to teach him about the qualities that separate good songs from bad. “He’s one of the guys in town who knows so much about the history of songwriting here,” he says. Jesus and Elvis arrived in Chesney’s hands from Cannon through an email that simply said: “Just listen.” Chesney did and recognized the lonesome core of the song that he says might have made some of his peers nervous. “This was the kind of song that inspired me to move to town in the first place,” he said. “If it was anybody else producing my record, I doubt they would have found that song and sent it.”This record joins recent efforts by Miranda Lambert, Chris Stapleton and others in pushing mainstream country closer to regaining ground it has lost due to the prevalence of party anthems that Chesney himself admits he played a role in elevating. Whether a full renaissance is yet to be determined, but Chesney says he already has a song cycle in his hand that he wants to record as an acoustic album. “When you’ve been doing it this long, there is the pressure of how do you keep going? But I have to do it. I’m already looking ahead,” he says. “It’s just part of how I’ve always done things. Because I can’t help it.”