The lure may be the free coffee and croissant to offset the 10am start time, but there is something else about Shakespeare for Breakfast at C on Chambers Street that has been getting audiences to return year after year. You don’t become a fringe institution without repeat business, and Shakespeare for Breakfast has been selling out for 25 years with its cheery, Shakespeare-lite renditions of the best-known plays. This year it’s a version of Dream, complete with references to TV reality shows and Snapchat, in which Oberon has walked straight out of Star Wars and – a stroke of genius – Bottom is transformed not just into an ass, but a blond-wigged ass called Boris Johnson.Edinburgh festival 2016: the shows we recommend The woman I sit next to says it’s an annual pilgrimage, because all members of the family can enjoy it; before I go in, someone else tells me this is their 10th consecutive visit to the show. It’s become as much part of their yearly fringe experience as throwing up on Cowgate and seeing all the main Traverse shows is for others.It’s impossible not to like Shakespeare for Breakfast. The actors are talented, there’s wit and invention in the gender-bending doubling, and it tips a knowing wink to its own limitations of budget and staging. Even so, with its slapstick elements and cod-early modern verse, it feeds into the idea that Shakespeare is frightening, and that the only way to make the plays palatable is to treat them like a pantomime. Yet as the Globe has so often proved, Shakespeare can be enormous fun even when you pretty much stick to the script. When staged well, the cat fight between Helena and Hermia is hilarious: it doesn’t need explanation, because there is clarity in both Shakespeare’s verse and his scenario. You just have to have faith.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Crowd favourite … the Reduced Shakespeare Company with William Shakespeare’s Long Lost First Play (Abridged). Photograph: Richard Davenport/The Other RichardShit-Faced Shakespeare at Underbelly in George Square is another fringe institution and regularly sells out. The premise is simple: every night, one of the actors drinks to excess before taking to the stage and apparently wreaking mayhem on a cultural artefact. This year the rather fascinating choice is Measure for Measure, not by any means the easiest play, or one with which many members of the audience will be familiar. Actually, on the night I see it, the gin must have been watered down, because apart from the some difficulties with his trousers and microphone, the actor stumbled through the role of the Duke with no particular mishaps. It just looked and sounded like the kind of dodgy acting you see in Shakespeare productions all over the globe. What was more interesting was that, for the sake of a few laughs, the audience sat dutifully through a not very good but traditional production of the play, when they might never buy a tickets to see a non-shitfaced Shakespeare. Which is odd, because I’ve definitely seen far funnier Measure for Measures.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Real potential … Anna Chessher as the Winter Witch in Blood Will Have Blood. Photograph: Lars ThornhilThe Reduced Shakespeare Company have made a career out of playing on both our unconscious knowledge of Shakespeare’s plays and our insecurities that the plays will be too difficult for us without intervention. William Shakespeare’s Long Lost First Play (Abridged) at the Pleasance Courtyard works on the conceit that the company have made an amazing discovery and are staging this piece of Shakespeare’s juvenilia – featuring 1,639 characters – for the first time. It turns out that many of the words and plotlines familiar from later plays are evident in this early work. So Ariel (sometimes confused with the Little Mermaid) and Puck are involved in a feud, Lady Macbeth attempts to stop Hamlet’s endless procrastination over dispatching Claudius by drawing on her experience of murder, and familiar lines get changed. “Beware the ides of February” just doesn’t have the same ring to it.Like Shakespeare for Breakfast, this is pantomime Shakespeare: not unpleasant and sometimes funny, but rather than demystifying the plays, it plays to the idea that Shakespeare is impossible for mere mortals to truly understand. They suggest that Shakespeare is not for people like us, when in fact the Edinburgh international festival production of Shake – a brilliant French version of Twelfth Night, played as an end-of-the-pier show – reminds us that Shakespeare is part of popular theatre, not something to be wrapped up in cultural cotton wool.A Midsummer Night's Dream: Shakespeare's great shapeshifter In Lost First Play the weird sisters get a starring role, and it’s on their prophecy that Immercity riff in Blood Will Have Blood at C Nova, a headphones show in which the small audience is cast as Fleance – who, after fleeing the site of his father’s murder at the hands of Macbeth, finds himself wandering in the forest, where he is taken in by a strange woman who is clearly one of the witches.The show was beset by technical difficulties on the night I saw it, and even without them it wouldn’t quite work – not least because the actions we are asked to undertake never feel necessary, and the surroundings of a grim little undressed room detract from the atmosphere. But this has real potential: the writing never tries to be Shakespearean but is beautiful in its own right, and the piece follows in a long tradition from Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead onwards that takes a minor character from Shakespeare and gives them their own story. It fashions something entirely new from something old, and for all its imperfections it feels fresh, as if instinctively understanding that, just as Shakespeare stole most of his stories, so we can steal from him and refashion what we take into something quite new.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pale imitation … Hamlet in Bed at the PleasanceBut borrowing from Shakespeare is full of pitfalls, too, as Hamlet in Bed at the Pleasance proves. It’s the story of a narcissistic New York theatre director who stalks an actress he believes might be his long-lost mother, and casts her as Gertrude in a production he has no real intention of staging, just so he can get to know her. There is something nasty and misogynistic about the scenario. But then, of course, Katie Mitchell has already called Hamlet out, and this is just another version of it that relegates the women to supporting roles. Worth it mostly for Annette O’Toole, who gets to play some of Gertrude’s scenes, and does it so well that you wish you could see her in the original play, not this pale imitation. 