From time travelling wars to shrimp-like aliens, this month we’ve certainly got an eclectic mix of books to choose from. So, whether you’re on the lookout for a new sci-fi, historical or romance tale, you’ve come to the right place. All month our superb site reviewers have been busy reading and critiquing the very best in young adult and children’s books, and here are their top picks.Gavriel Savit: 'I’ve never known the end of a chapter in my life' - children's books podcast 1. Anna and the Swallow Man by Gavriel SavitIf you’re in the mood for a “beautifully written and compelling” read, then look no further. This historic fable follows seven-year-old Anna in Poland during the second world, as she embarks on a journey with the mysterious Swallow Man, who can talk to birds. Site member Valentine praised Savit’s prose, and particularly enjoyed how the writing reflects Anna’s childlike understanding:  The way [Savit] shows the war through the eyes of a child, although often in sophisticated language, is very original.Our reviewer also enjoyed the small illustrations at the start of each chapter. “The illustrations that decorate the beginning of each chapter are also worth mentioning – they are a perfect complement to the story.”Scientific inaccuracies your favourite historical characters definitely believed 2. The Next Together by Lauren JamesFrom historical tales to timetravel, our next readers’ pick spans time, landscapes and entire realities. A mix of faith-based ideas of reincarnation and sci-fi concepts of alternative realities, this book follows Katherine and Matthew who are continually reborn into new realities, destined to fall in love, save the world and then be reborn. Each chapter of the book contains several letters, diary entries, normal prose or notes from the fridge from different periods in time. The different stories are interwoven and mirror what is happening in each time landscape,” says site member The Fanatical Reader, who felt the plot was remarkably immersive. “By the end of it I was internally shouting, screaming and crying … This book was beautifully and masterfully written and I cannot wait for the sequel.”3. Perijee and Me by Ross MontgomeryOnto something for our younger readers, this book follows Caitlin, who lives all alone on an island with her parents, until she finds a little shrimp-like alien on the beach called Perijee. The only problem is – Perijee won’t stop growing. “This is a fabulous book to read,” enthused site member SquishyFruitcake:  There are some really funny bits – like the bit with the cow in – but I’ll let you find out what’s funny for yourself. There’s a lot of suspense too, and some strange characters along the way.Our reviewer also liked Caitlin’s narrative voice. “When I read the book it felt like Caitlin was chatting to me. I felt like I knew her and she was my friend, which was nice.”4. All My Sons by Arthur MillerReturning to the second world war theme, this play takes place in the aftermath of the war, and explores whether Joe Keller is responsible for shipping cracked cylinder heads which resulted in the death of 21 fighter pilots. “The story is a reflection of society and how people driven by a lust for money can stoop to any extent to acquire wealth even if it comes at the cost of relationships and betrays the nation,” says site member Alexia_Ternate.Our reader explains why the book is a must read:  It portrays society and how human beings tend to ignore the bigger picture and have become materialistic and selfish.Free read! Rebel of the Sands by Alwyn Hamilton 5. Rebel of the Sands by Alwyn HamiltonContinuing the theme of mystery, our final book for this month is set in the dry, desert sands of Dustwalk. Orphan Amani Al’Hiza jumps at the chance to leave when a stranger offers her help, but soon gets caught up in a middle of a dangerous rebellion that could tear the desert apart. “I don’t think my words can capture the essence of what this book has in store for you,” says site member XoXo, Bookworm_98. The blurb promises you rebellion and love and magic, and it does not disappoint! From the stories of Djinn to Ghouls to Skinwalkers, to the passion between Jin and Amani; through all the characters with their dangerous powers and powerful personalities, this book will grip you and never let go.How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? We can’t wait to get reading! Want to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!