Critics turned composers It’s just a coincidence, surely, but no less than three of the composers with major premieres in the 2016 Proms have been music critics in previous lives. Anthony Payne left that world behind a long time ago, and is far better known nowadays for his own beautifully crafted music and for his completions of unfinished works by Elgar and Vaughan Williams. His Of Land, Sea and Sky gets its first performance in Andrew Davis’s concert with the BBC Symphony Orchestra. But both Malcolm Hayes and Bayan Northcott still work as critics, even though composing is now their main occupation. Tai Murray is the soloist in Hayes’s Violin Concerto, with Thomas Søndergård conducting the BBC National Orchestra of Wales, while the BBCSO under Simone Young gets to introduce Northcott’s Concerto for Orchestra. • Royal Albert Hall, London on 26 July (Payne); 11 August (Hayes); 31 August (Northcott)Der Nächtliche Wanderer       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Reinbert de Leeuw’s Der Nächtliche Wanderer includes barking dogs. Photograph: Gary Friedman/LA Times via Getty ImagesOliver Knussen’s appearances at the Proms, usually conducting the BBC Symphony, almost invariably contain something special or unexpected. There are both in his concert with the orchestra this year. The first half is devoted to Brahms’s First Piano Concerto, not a rarity at all, except that the soloist is Peter Serkin, who is one of the finest pianists around today and collaborates with Knussen, but who only rarely gives concerts in Britain. After that comes the UK premiere of Reinbert de Leeuw’s Der Nächtliche Wanderer (The Night Wanderer). De Leeuw, a Dutch contemporary of Louis Andriessen, is much better known these days as a conductor than as a composer. This sumptuous 55-minute nightscape, first performed in 2014, and which includes pre-recorded sounds of barking dogs, a distant accordion playing Wagner and the words of the Hölderlin poem from which the work takes its title, was his first orchestral score in 40 years. • Royal Albert Hall on 4 August Berlin v Dresden, Barenboim v Thielemann       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Daniel Barenboim in rehearsal with the Berlin Staatskapelle. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianThe parade of international orchestras that traditionally lights up the last few weeks of the season includes some of the usual suspects. But one particular juxtaposition stands out this time, when two concerts by the Berlin Staatskapelle with its music director Daniel Barenboim, are followed immediately by two concerts from the Dresden Staatskapelle and its chief, Christian Thielemann, who is making a rare London appearance. The opportunity to compare and contrast two of the real heavyweights of the German orchestral scene is enhanced by the fact that three of their four programmes feature a Mozart piano concerto followed by a Bruckner symphony. Barenboim is the soloist in Mozart’s C minor and D major concertos, K491 and 537, as well as conducting Bruckner’s Fourth and Sixth Symphonies, while Daniil Trifonov is the soloist in the C major Concerto K467 with Thielemann, who tackles Bruckner’s always problematic Third Symphony. • Royal Albert Hall on 5 and 6 September (Berlin); 7 and 8 September (Dresden) The Makropulos Affair and Semiramide       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Karita Mattila sings in a concert staging of the Makropulos Affair. Photograph: Lauri ErikssonAs usual some of the opera at the Albert Hall – the Royal Opera’s Boris Godunov and Glyndebourne’s Barber of Seville – revisits shows already seen elsewhere. But two major events are genuinely bespoke for the Proms. The concert staging of Janáaček’s The Makropulos Affair that Jiří Bĕlohlávek conducts with the BBC Symphony follows on from his much admired Jenůfa at the Festival Hall in April; as in that performance, the cast includes Karita Mattila, here singing the role of Emilia Marty. Rossini’s rarely heard Semiramide, though, is being given in a straight concert performance; Mark Elder conducts the period instruments of the Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment in this one, with Albina Shagimuratova in the demanding coloratura title role. • Royal Albert Hall, 19 August (The Makropulos Affair); 4 September (Semiramide)Steve Reich in a car park       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Multi-Story Orchestra in action. Photograph: Ambra VernuccioThe car park Prom: meet the orchestra who perform on the ninth floor of a multi-storey The Proms matinees on Saturday afternoon have been dispersed around London this year. There are concerts in the Old Royal Naval College in Greenwich, the Roundhouse in Chalk Farm and at the Sam Wanamaker Playhouse on the South Bank, while the series ends in the most unlikely venue of all. Over the last five years conductor Christopher Stark and his Multi-Story Orchestra have carved out their own very distinctive south London niche with their concerts in a municipal car park in Peckham. It’s there, on home ground, that Stark and his orchestra present an 80th-birthday tribute to the great American minimalist Steve Reich. Their programme concentrates on Reich’s early works, and includes his first ever orchestral piece, Music for Large Ensemble, as well as the beautiful Vermont Counterpoint and the octet Eight Lines. • Bold Tendencies, Peckham Multi-storey Car Park, London, 3 SeptemberThe BBC Proms run from 15 July to 10 September; bbc.co.uk/proms