It’s a Monday afternoon, and Oliver Lee and James Carter, the duo otherwise known as Snakehips, are currently in the throes of a worldwide tour. First they were in front of 10,000 fans at Australia’s Splendour in the Grass festival; now they’re in the American midwest. “We just did Lollapalooza in Chicago and are headed to Canada in a bit,” says Lee, with a pep in his voice despite the punishing schedule. “It’s been sick.”The duo is zig-zagging from city to city in order to capitalize on a variety of singles which have catapulted them from a simple studio set-up in Carter’s kitchen in Camden, London, to the heights of the global charts. Their most recent effort, the synth-soaked Cruel featuring Zayn Malik, became a viral smash the instant it was released last month, collecting 1m streams within 48 hours of its release and closing in on 10m in the weeks since. (The music video, below, was released on Tuesday.) “Cruel was actually an idea we started,” explains Lee. “We write a lot with a songwriter named Cass Lowe and we originally worked on Cruel with him in London. We had heard Zayn was interested in collaborating with us and figured we’d send it over to him.”    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Without ever meeting in person, the former One Direction star sent back a cut of the track with his vocals. “He wound up smashing it,” says Lee. “When it came back it sounded perfect, he wound up adding some really cool stuff. It’s funny – I still don’t know exactly what it’d be like to work in the studio with Zayn because it all happened so quickly.”For Lee and Carter, the success of Cruel is another mainstream smash after years of working in relative obscurity. The two first met by chance in Hong Kong at a bar and struck up a conversation. “It was super random,” says Lee. “I can’t remember how we even started talking. It turned out James lived near me in London and when we left we were on the same plane together by pure coincidence. Once we got back, we decided to start making beats together.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The duo first found success posting remixes online. “Our first one to ever go crazy on the internet was a remix for this band called Wild Belle [It’s Too Late]. After that, we did a remix of a Weeknd track [Wanderlust], and that was even more popular. It just grew from there,” Lee says. It wasn’t until last October when the duo released an original track called All My Friends, an anti-party song featuring Tinashe and Chance the Rapper, that wound up pushing them from online remixers confined to the internet to a mainstream act to be reckoned with.“We didn’t expect All My Friends to get such a great reception at all, because it still feels like a weird song,” Lee explains of the track that catapulted them into the top 10 in multiple countries and currently boasts 30m views on YouTube for its music video. “It was really bizarre to watch it grow and was a really big step for us.”All My Friends was an improbable success, especially considering the song’s dark subject matter. While dubiously sounding like a party song, the track is actually about a night out gone awry. However, Lee is quick to point out: “The song isn’t based on a particular experience, but years of them. I feel like we’ve all been there, when you have a super-wack night out.” Upon concocting All My Friends, the duo sent it blind to Tinashe and Chance the Rapper, two of the hottest names in music. “We envisioned them on it when we made the song, even though it was completely unrealistic. They signed on after hearing an early cut and it wound up becoming a dream situation.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Lee and Carter’s dreams will continue to materialize this coming fall when they headline a show at Koko, a short walk from Carter’s apartment. There, they’re currently working on their debut album which promises to be chock full of guest stars. “We’re still working out of James’ kitchen,” says Lee, forgoing the set-up of a major studio. “All you really need are speakers and a computer. You don’t need much more these days. It’s a super-relaxed vibe.”Of course that doesn’t mean it’s jarring when the duo spins their kitchen-made tracks for thousands of screaming fans. “It definitely helps inspire you,” explains Lee, still getting ready to depart the Windy City and hop the US border into Canada. “It’s wicked seeing people singing along to your tune and seeing them go crazy for it. It makes it all worth it when the fans react to your music on such a big scale.”This article was amended on 11 August 2016. Oliver Dickinson now goes by the surname Lee. This has been corrected. 