Hinterland 9pm, BBC4The atmospheric Welsh cop drama returns and it’s as gloriously, implacably cheerless as ever. We begin during the aftermath of a fire that has destroyed DCI Mathias’s home. “Can you think of anyone who might hold a grudge?”, asks an investigating officer. Mathias sighs deeply. It’s a long list. Suitably traumatised, Mathias and DI Rhys soon find themselves dispatched to a remote mountain community where they find more misery and dysfunction. Phil HarrisonJapan’s Northern Wilderness 6.25pm, BBC2Naturalist Steve Backshall and Olympic rower Helen Glover are an accomplished couple. As this demonstrates, however, it does not necessarily follow that what essentially amounts to their holiday video will be riveting viewing. The pair visit Tohoku – a spectacular landscape but one about which Backshall and Glover have little but the obvious to say. A drinking challenge prompted by uses of “unique” or “amazing” would be ill advised. Andrew MuellerDoctor Who 7.20pm, BBC1If you watch Doctor Who with kids who like the adventures but not the scares, maybe skip this one. Bill, driven to desperation by the housing crisis, moves with her student pals into a suspiciously cheap, creaking mansion overseen by a spooky landlord (David Suchet). Haunted-house chills eventually give way to full-on horror: its stylish execution and several nice moments of sly, dry comedy in Mike Bartlett’s script compensate for a story that ultimately doesn’t quite sing. Jack SealeTrump on Culture: Brave New World? 7.20pm, BBC2Marking President Trump’s first 100 days in office, Alastair Sooke travels to the US to examine his impact on the cultural landscape. The philistine-in-chief has announced plans to eliminate federal funding for the arts and while this might be so much wind, figures from the worlds of music, literature, film and TV take the threat he poses seriously. Sooke also meets a number of visual artists, some of whom rather like Trump. David StubbsThe Keith and Paddy Picture Show 9.15pm, ITVIn which Celebrity Juice’s Keith Lemon and Take Me Out’s Paddy McGuinness recreate a host of iconic movies with the help of a range of celebrity guests and friends. This week it’s Dirty Dancing getting a remix with stars including Larry Lamb, Kimberly Wyatt, John Barrowman and Jessica Hynes (Oh God, why, Jessica?) pitching up to help out, while Keith plays Jennifer Grey’s Baby with Paddy as Mr Swayze. It’s bloody awful. Ben ArnoldScorpion 8.15pm, ITV2For an unfortunate few the word “biodome” can rekindle repressed memories of the so-titled cinematic disaster starring Stephen Baldwin. Sadly for Team Scorpion, their fate seems set to end in a manner every bit as gruesome, after the attempted rescue of two scientists inside their own scientific semi-sphere goes south, leaving them trapped in a contained environment designed for use on Mars. Though at least Pauly Shore isn’t present. Small mercies. Mark Gibbings-JonesSlash: Raised on the Sunset Strip 9pm, Sky ArtsThis doc catches the guitarist making his last solo album, prior to rejoining Guns N’ Roses in 2016. Slash has an interesting past (a mixed-race kid of two 70s music biz types, born in London, raised in Stoke, arrived in LA age six), but he’s a man of few words. Happily, he knows some good talkers. Among these rehabbed rockers in vests are Matt Sorum and Duff McKagan – and Aerosmith’s Joe Perry, who tells a heartwarming story about a valuable guitar. John RobinsonFilm choiceNightcrawler, (Danny Gilroy, 2014) Saturday, 9pm, BBC2      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Creepy, violent and vampiric … Jake Gyllenhaal in Nightcrawler. Photograph: Chuck Zlotnick/APThere’s something vampiric about Jake Gyllenhaal’s gaunt ghoul Lou Bloom, who makes a living as a TV cameraman filming the gory results of crime and car smashes. Taken on by Rene Russo’s tough news editor Nina, and employing Riz Ahmed’s hapless Rick as his gofer, Lou starts crossing the line from the merely tasteless to the morally bankrupt. Gilroy’s assured debut, with its shadows of Scorsese’s Taxi Driver and Bringing Out the Dead, is a creepy, violent and queasily satirical drama. Paul HowlettSilk Stockings, (Rouben Mamoulian, 1957), 9.05am, BBC2A delicious musical version of Ninotchka, starring Cyd Charisse in the Garbo role of a tight-buttoned Russian commissar learning the delights of the decadent west. With Fred Astaire as her guide, she makes up in dancing what she lacks as an actor. Among the classy Cole Porter numbers, Fred’s Ritz Roll & Rock is a knockout take on the Bill Haley phenomenon. Paul HowlettHanna, (Joe Wright, 2011), 9pm, E4Like Jason Bourne, except the assassin is a 16-year-old girl. Hanna (Saoirse Ronan) has been brought up by her ex-secret agent dad (Eric Bana) in remote Lapland and taught all the ruthless skills she will need when nasty Cate Blanchett and her CIA minions turn up. Wright manages to ring quirky genre changes without stinting on the action. Paul HowlettThe Big Kahuna, (John Swanbeck, 1999), 12.35am, BBC2Adapted by Roger Rueff from his play, this engrossing drama has three salesmen – old hands Kevin Spacey and Danny DeVito, and naive young Peter Facinelli – hanging out at a Wichita hotel hospitality suite hoping to hook the big kahuna, aka the boss of a major conglomerate. There’s more than a touch of Death of a Salesman and The Iceman Cometh about this poignant, world-weary tale. Paul HowlettLive sportIPL Cricket: Sunrisers Hyderabad v Rising Pune Supergiant A T20 double bill from India with Delhi Daredevils v Mumbai Indians to follow. 11am, Sky Sports 3Premier League Football: Manchester City v Crystal Palace Action from the Etihad Stadium. 12.30pm, Sky Sports 1Premiership Rugby Union A vital game from the final round of fixtures. 3.15pm, BT Sport 2