The Twitter war raging between Piers Morgan and JK Rowling appears to have reached its zenith with the Harry Potter author clocking up a notable victory against her social media nemesis.Morgan appeared to score a spectacular own goal in his Twitter confrontation with Rowling on Tuesday, criticising a flattering description of the author that it transpired he had written.The two high-profile figures share an enthusiasm for tweeting and have been embroiled in a public sparring match on the platform since Sunday, when Rowling wrote that Morgan “being told to fuck off on live TV [was] exactly as satisfying” as she had imagined. He called her “superior, dismissive and arrogant”; she called him a “celebrity toady”.Fantastic beefs and where to find them: JK Rowling at war with Piers Morgan On Tuesday, Valentine’s Day, Rowling tweeted a screenshot of a flattering description of her as an “intensely” private, successful author who has encouraged children “to read, feel inspired and be creative”.“Just been sent this! Could the writer let me know who he is! I’d love to thank him! #Valentines” she tweeted.J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling)Just been sent this! Could the writer let me know who he is? I'd love to thank him! #Valentines pic.twitter.com/OQtbxPD6ALFebruary 14, 2017The text noted Rowling’s commercial success, personal wealth and “squillions of awards … So Ms Rowling definitely matters.“She would hate to be called a celebrity and guards her private life intensely so she doesn’t play any part of the celebrity game … But by encouraging children to read, feel inspired and be creative, she has had a greater impact on the world than [many other celebrities].”Morgan seized on Rowling’s tweet, identifying it as “priceless #humblebrag BS”. A “humblebrag” is defined as “an ostensibly modest or self-deprecating statement whose actual purpose is to draw attention to something of which one is proud”.Piers Morgan (@piersmorgan)Priceless #humblebrag BS. Nobody plays the celebrity game more abusively or ruthlessly than you, Ms 'Intensely Private Billionaire'. https://t.co/5ysnfefa3dFebruary 14, 2017“Nobody plays the celebrity game more abusively or ruthlessly than you, Ms ‘Intensely Private Billionaire’,” Morgan wrote.Twitter users delighted in noting that Morgan himself was the author of the description, part of his March 2010 list of “the 100 British celebrities who really matter”.Morgan had placed Rowling at 97.After a BuzzFeed reporter tweeted that Morgan “didn’t realise” he had written the quote (and that it was the best day of the reporter’s life), Morgan said he was merely questioning his own past judgment of which British celebrities really mattered.“Relax, quarter-wit, I knew what it was. Just surprised I put her as high as 97th.”Jamie Ross (@JamieRoss7)Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh my god. He doesn't realise. This is the best day of my life. pic.twitter.com/fl0lFPHXf5February 14, 2017Piers Morgan (@piersmorgan)Relax, quarter-wit, I knew what it was. Just surprised I put her as high as 97th. https://t.co/HCzx4Ius4EFebruary 14, 2017Rowling had not publicly responded but was assumed by the Guardian to be wordlessly punching the air at her computer.Morgan went on to share, several times, a YouGov survey that said the British public vastly preferred Rowling over him, commenting variously: “Who wants to win the popular vote these days, anyway?” and “Says YouGov, who predicted wins for Remain & Hillary.”He later retweeted a tweet comparing his row with Rowling to “North Korea playing Iran at football. Devil’s own job knowing who to cheer for.”Piers Plowman (@Piers_Plowman)Have @piersmorgan and @jk_rowling finished yet? It's like North Korea playing Iran at football. Devil's own job knowing who to cheer for.February 14, 2017