Bicycle helmets save lives. That is a point clearly established by the latest research from Australia, where the subject is live and controversial because in parts of the country it is compulsory to wear them, on penalty of substantial fines. Opponents point out that they are of very little help in serious crashes, since they don’t protect the head against being run over, or the rest of the body at all. Besides, there is some evidence that they encourage bad behaviour: drivers filmed on English roads treat apparently defenceless cyclists with greater consideration than those who appeared armoured in special clothing. Drivers gave the widest berth of all to cyclists who wore skirts and no helmets. But no government would make it compulsory to wear skirts on a bike. Should they, though, make helmets compulsory?Wearing a bike helmet might make you more dangerous From the point of view of accident reduction, the answer is entirely clear. Helmets do prevent some head injuries, and these can be very serious even when they are not immediately fatal. On the other hand, they are extremely rare. You would have to cycle tens of thousands of hours in Australia to get an injury requiring medical treatment. More than 10 times as many Americans were shot dead in 2014 as died cycling and, despite the headlines, most Americans are never going to be shot at in their lifetimes. The benefits of cycling can’t be translated into such striking figures but there’s no doubt that regular exercise prolongs and improves life in every way, and cycling is one of the best ways to make gentle exercise a daily routine.If it were true that wearing a helmet was a faff that put people off cycling there would be a finely balanced argument on public health grounds about whether to make it compulsory. But it appears that cycling rates continue to rise even in places where you can be fined for riding without a helmet. This doesn’t, of course, prove that they wouldn’t have risen further in the absence of helmet laws. The benefits of cycling are so obvious now to cyclists that they will put up with a little additional inconvenience to enjoy them. So why shouldn’t they be encouraged to look after themselves? Why should the NHS be forced to bear the costs of avoidable injuries because people are too idle or hurried to take reasonable precautions?Sydney's 'war on cyclists': 'I got fined $106 for not having a bell' Risk reduction cannot be the only grounds on which policy is decided. If that were the case, helmets would be compulsory for pedestrians as well, since it would reduce the seriousness of some injuries, and undoubtedly save lives too. The ultimate aim of public policy must be to enable and encourage human flourishing, and because we are complicated and contradictory creatures, that must involve a degree of self-contradiction and the balancing of some goods against others.The sense of freedom and spontaneity that cyclists enjoy is not an illusion and has real value. The way to encourage cycling, and to save lives, is by changing the roads to make cycling safer, and enforcing the law so that all road users – cyclists and pedestrians as well as motorists – show each other greater consideration.