Nestled among the concrete wilderness of Surry Hills in Sydney, the Opera Australia centre is a large but unassuming building, filled with music rooms, building workshops and costume studios. As I’m shown into the antiquated boardroom for a meeting, I see a remarkable set of paintings. They hang haphazardly on the walls and look like the work of Sidney Nolan.“Oh, but they are by Nolan,” says Tanja Binggeli, who works at the centre as German language coach. “No one really knows they’re here either.” The paintings are unmistakably Nolan, in colour and shape: swaths of rich reddish-browns and blasts of sudden yellow light, with incongruous fantastical and historical figures lost in a strange landscape. They show the helplessness of both men and animals when faced by the enormities of a rampant and hostile natural world. The characters are bold and prickly, transfixed by the distance of immeasurable sky. Germaine Greer: Sidney Nolan painted the outback like no one else In short, they are grand, despite their relatively modest size, and they reveal Nolan’s technical virtuosity in all of its bedraggled glory.The paintings, Binggeli says, are smaller versions of large set pieces that are now in storage, which were commissioned specifically for the opera company. Not associated with a gallery or museum, and never included in the numerous retrospectives that followed his death in 1992, they have therefore remained out of view. Not only do they seem like major works – an integral part of his late canon – but they also reveal his connection to the opera, which is rarely associated with his work.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mother and Child (1983), by Sidney Nolan: “I painted a mother feeding a child that she’s going to lose, all done on a giant scale, because if you have all the singers down below and they’re all about five feet, and if you then have a woman feeding her baby who’s thirty feet high, it’s a curious effect.” Photograph: Nathan DunneFor all their beauty, these paintings also symbolise a time when major art institutions such as Opera Australia collaborated with contemporary visual artists – which rarely happens these days. It was a time when, despite finite budgets and smaller audiences, collaboration with major figures such as Nolan was viewed as a coup rather than a risk.The paintings, a series of eight, form part of Nolan’s design of the Elijah Moshinsky production of Il Trovatore, first commissioned by Opera Australia in 1983 and successfully revived in 1999. Set in 15th century Spain, the Verdi opera is a high flown, sprawling melodrama flamboyantly defiant of linear narrative, packed with all manner of fantastic and bizarre incidents: child abductions, witch burnings, vengeful gypsies locked in dungeons. Its plot is so hyperbolic it was satirised by Gilbert and Sullivan in The Pirates of Penzance.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It was a time when, despite finite budgets and smaller audiences, collaboration with major figures such as Nolan was viewed as a coup rather than a risk.’Nolan had worked with Moshinsky on several other productions at the Royal Opera House in London, but Il Trovatore was his only contribution to opera in Australia. He outlined his approach in the Reynolds lecture to the Royal Academy in 1988: “For me, designing for the opera provides the kind of ambience for giving the audience a belief in the validity of what is being produced – you believe because you see.” The paintings at Opera Australia are an amalgam of the artist’s outback landscapes and his absorption of Verdi’s fantasia. While the vegetation is undeniably Australian, the characters are all Verdi. Although I was too young to attend the original production, I can only imagine the tumultuous mixing of worlds: medieval Spain voiced in Italian by way of the Australian outback. Joan Sutherland’s performance as Leonora consumed the most attention in the press coverage, but Nolan was singled out for his imaginative sets.To achieve the different strains of the production, Nolan drew on the immortal template of the Madonna and child for one of the key set pieces, modernising the characters in his inimitable style. TG Rosenthal quoted him explaining the work, in a book, Sidney Nolan, published in 2002: “I painted a mother feeding a child that she’s going to lose, all done on a giant scale, because if you have all the singers down below and they’re all about five feet, and if you then have a woman feeding her baby who’s thirty feet high, it’s a curious effect.”  Nolan was able to take the gypsies of medieval Spain and transport them to Australia without any loss to the music. Achieving a sense of perspective with multiple layers was done by using gauze, and for a sense of movement, Nolan embedded his giant figures in a fern-like forest, reminiscent of how one might experience the Australian bush; at once lush and hallucinogenic. Nolan was famously moved after reading of the diaries of doomed explorers Burke and Wills; he arranged to fly for weeks over the red outback with Eddie Connellan’s flying mail service in 1947. This trip inspired his famous palette, which a journalist in the Daily Telegraph once described as hitting you “like a ton or two of real red earth.” The Il Trovatore paintings reveal how he developed this style over the course of his career; in these late works the earth is shaped into translucent, thinly painted hills and valleys, which are then worked over with a semi-dry bristle brush and some finger painting.The tension between different representations of reality amid omnipresent music is a basic characteristic of opera. If the libretti has divine or mythic characters, the theory goes, then the music is likely to be more explicable to the audience, more felt. A painter of Nolan’s talent was able to take the gypsies of medieval Spain and transport them to Australia without any loss to the music.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Backdrop (1983), by Sidney Nolan for Opera Australia Photograph: Nathan DunneLike many other opera companies in the USA and Europe, opera in Australia is experiencing some fundamental challenges, particularly to do with sustainability. For example, the recent national opera review recommended Opera Queensland be given three years to turn around its ailing finances, before its status as a major performing arts company is taken away – a remove which would result in a significant reduction of funding, and certain death. One of the charges levelled at the country’s major companies was that people no longer wanted to see the same staid and unadventurous productions. A lack of collaboration was also said to be a major contributor to falling audience numbers, and thus finances.Craig Hassall, the outgoing CEO of Opera Australia, looks back to a time when Nolan, Patrick White and others of their generation were major contributors to the arts in Australia: “It was a kind of golden age of talent, one that’s difficult to recapture and is a great loss,” he says. Opera in Australia is out-of-touch and untenable. To survive, it needs to be reinvented But why is it difficult to recapture? Like Nolan’s contribution to Il Trovatore, why not have Ben Quilty produce the sets for Don Giovanni, or Fiona Hall collaborate on Turandot? Maybe those who have invested heavily in contemporary art of recent years, such as Judith Neilson of White Rabbit Gallery, or David Walsh of Mona, could be brought into opera funding through artist collaborations? Short of that, Nolan’s Il Trovatore is surely up for another revival – his unrelenting and adventurous spirit is sorely missed.