The Great British Bake Off 8pm, BBC1“Back to basics… simple but fiendish.” Apart from the gran who does aerobics while baking and listens to the cake to know if it’s cooked, there’s nothing new as BBC1’s marquee entertainment show returns: week one centres on old favourites, and fans can tick off Bake Off archetypes here. Still, it’s full of the usual subtle joys. No need to change a recipe that works so well. A documentary on last year’s winner, Nadiya Hussain, follows. Jack SealeCan Britain Have a Pay Rise?8pm, BBC2With almost half the British workforce earning less than £20,000 a year, it’s time for some serious questions. So … let’s have a studio debate! Stephanie McGovern and an almost supernaturally tolerant James O’Brien host, while questions tossed into the room like raw meat include: are we low-paid because we’re not working hard enough? Are bosses paid too much? And, will Britain get a pay rise after Brexit? Just imagine how that one goes down. Ali CatterallSkies Above Britain 9pm, BBC2The air traffic controllers who run our crowded skies are, they tell us, control freaks with neat houses – and you wouldn’t want it any other way. Tonight’s show doesn’t find any of them exactly emerging as characters, but the picture of who flies in their airspace certainly does. We meet blogger and aspirant drone cameraman Stef, now entering a world of bureaucracy; Lynne, who needs to conquer her fear of flying; and Paul – pilot at work, air race king in his spare time. John RobinsonThe Watchman 9pm, Channel 4In this one-off drama, Stephen Graham is Carl, a nightshift CCTV operator who observes the murky goings-on of an every-city through his monitor screens. Frustrated when the police refuse to act on information about a gang of street dealers, he decides to take matters into his own hands. Things soon spiral out of control. Director and writer Dave Nath weaves a taut enough hour, but it requires a considerably more decisive conclusion to be ultimately satisfying. Ben ArnoldRizzoli & Isles 9pm, AlibiFirst episode of the final series of the Boston-based police procedural, picking up with the aftermath of Nina’s shooting at the hands of rogue former FBI agent Alice Sands outside Korsak’s bar. As the team pools its resources in an attempt to ensure that Sands doesn’t slip through its fingers, Jane’s decision to involve the press puts her in danger. Meanwhile, an attempt to goad Sands into breaking cover doesn’t go down well with the department. Mark Gibbings-JonesShades of Blue 9pm, Sky LivingPolice drama with shades of The Shield and starring Jennifer Lopez as compromised NYPD detective Santos. Alongside her is Ray Liotta, doing a bad Christian Slater impression, as corrupt Lieutenant Wozniak, who helped to orchestrate a murder for her. Tonight, Santos is incensed at Wozniak’s involvement in the death of a fellow detective and comes under pressure to nail him. It’s OK, but in the past this storyline would have been a straight-to-DVD movie. David StubbsSuspects: The Enemy Within 10pm, Channel 5Acclaimed UK cop shows are either comedies (No Offence, Babylon) or moody exercises in style (Luther), so Channel 5’s lone homegrown drama Suspects can seem like a rough-and-ready outlier: The Bill with added F-bombs. The grotty locations, shifty camerawork and improvised dialogue do create an impressive sense of immediacy, though, and in tonight’s tense episode, DC Weston has to respond when his daughter is abducted. Graeme VirtueFilm choiceThe Fourth Kind (Olatunde Osunsanmi, 2009) 12.55am, Channel 4Director Osunsanmi does an impressive Blair Witch job on the UFO phenomenon. The good folk of Nome, Alaska, are experiencing weird nightmares, and disappearing. Psychologist Abigail Tyler investigates, and the film cuts cleverly between narrative sections in which she is played by Milla Jovovich, and unnerving “documentary” bits, featuring “the real” Tyler. A number of questions are left hanging, but it’s a creepy little horror.Bad Education (Pedro Almodóvar, 2004) 1.25am, Film4Movie-maker Fele Martinez meets up with his boyhood love Gael García Bernal and agrees to film his script about their school years, and Bernal’s abuse by a priest. It lacks real emotional involvement, and there are curiously few women, but this is a masterly, multilayered Hollywood noir-style drama from Almodóvar.Live sportOne-Day International Cricket: England v Pakistan The opening game of the series from Southampton. 1.30pm, Sky Sports 2Cycling: Vuelta a España The Spanish road race travels from Viveiro to Lugo. 2pm, Eurosport 1Champions League Football: Manchester City v Steaua Bucharest The play-off second leg from the Etihad (kick-off at 7.45pm). 7pm, BT Sport 2