To Germany, Europe, where the freedom of movement of Jeremy Clarkson has been impeded by an elitist official on an airport departure gate – and just in time to publicise his new show, too. Jeremy’s mad as hell, and you should be, too. Woke Clarkson is your favourite Clarkson.By way of background, Jeremy and his Grand Tour co-stars and production team were flying back from Germany on Monday evening, where I assume they had been filming a brilliant sketch in a VW with the numberplate “H1T LER” or whatever. Silly old Hun! By the time Jerry gets the joke, Clarkson will be back at base, probably having a glass of organic rose with his mate David Cameron. #massivelegendz.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Clarkson, May and Hammond reunite for The Grand TourAlas, Jeremy et al were prevented from boarding a BA flight just about to take off, apparently by a Stuttgart airport staff member who claimed to be Argentinian, and was therefore tacitly assumed to be acting in revenge for that Top Gear episode entitled something like Las Malvinas Son Clarkson’s.I should say from the get-go that significant portions of what happened at the gate are disputed by various parties – not least by the worker in question, who is in fact Spanish. But given it appeared on the front page of the Sun, Clarkson’s version had gone half way round the world before Stuttgart airport officials had time to get their jackboots on.Still, let’s permit Jeremy to chuck up his take first. “I said to this little bald guy,” Clarkson recalled, “‘What’s the problem?’ He had a big smile on his face. He said: ‘You’ve missed it.’ We said we had left the lounge when we were told, and he said: ‘I’m from Argentina, so fuck you.’ It was disgraceful.”There, there. Oh wait – there’s more? You cough another lot up, Jeremy – I’ll hold your hair back for you. “He marched off looking pleased with himself, no doubt to enjoy a disgusting dinner of refried beans. But he’s not heard the last of this.”Better out than in. Any more? “His colleagues were suggesting we were too drunk. But we’d had one can of beer. The police met us and could see we were sober and promised they would sort him out. They’re horrified. He’s toast.”All finished now? “He’s a stupid, bitter and twisted little man who can’t get it into his head that Argentina’s armed forces are completely useless.”There it is. All better now.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The front page of Wednesday’s Sun has all the details. Photograph: crichardson/The SunHang on. One last heave. “This ignorant little worm made us miss our plane and he will pay for it. The police said it was a hate crime and he would be arrested. Yes, even the Germans were on our side – for once.”Oh Jeremy! Surely “your side” is any side that doesn’t describe something that clearly isn’t a hate crime as “a hate crime”? By all means go after him for his jobsworthery. But if you’ve been about anything in your life, it’s about not policing freedom of bantz. In fact, I am SHOCKED you didn’t make this point of principle when the policeman allegedly said it to you, preferring instead to travel in its PC slipstream in the hope it would bring even more shit to bear on this guy.And so to the other versions of events. The Spanish airport worker in question disputes them entirely. “Mr Clarkson thinks he is very important and that the flight is going to wait for him,” he says. “Even if it’s the Queen, we don’t wait.” “I said: ‘You were in the lounge drinking, you were told we were boarding, you didn’t move.’” The Stuttgart airport spokesman seemed to back this up: “Mr Clarkson and his team missed several calls in the lounge while the other passengers have already been boarded,” he reveals. “Due to airline policy, after a certain time of absence the luggage will be removed from the aircraft and the missing passengers will be withdrawn from the passenger list. From this point there is no chance for boarding, even if the passengers show up.”As for Stuttgart police, they declared themselves unaware of any “hate crime” allegations.Of course, there will be some point-missing liberals who will look at Jeremy’s diatribe about an incident that was easily resolved when his production team or security guys purchased him another ticket for a flight that ended up landing ahead of the BA one anyway. And those liberals will conclude that if anyone can be said to have come over a bit bigoted and nationalistic, it’s him. Dear dear. Once again it falls to Lost in Showbiz to point out that They Still Don’t Get It, Do They?What people need to remember is that Jeremy has long represented a primal scream of anti-elitism, even if he is best buds with the former PM and the chairman of Rupert Murdoch’s News UK and so on. Furthermore, it is very important for us to understand WHY Jeremy says these things. Could it be economic anxiety? (He is rumoured to be on just the £10m from Amazon.) Could it be that he is feeling rather “left behind” – not just by the BA flight – and he is going to flex what little power he has left by staging insurgencies against the establishment, in the form of airline gate staff? I’m serious. This is an APB to all academics not currently deployed in the Rust Belt: can someone please look at the data and explain why these upsets with uppity underlings keep happening as far as Jeremy is concerned?In the meantime, do enjoy the show. It’s certainly the best Argentine-tinged car promotion since Private Eye spoofed the Sun with the classic: “Kill an Argie, win a Metro”, and we shall mark its official status as “developing”.