When you pay to see a comedian perform, you expect good laughs for your hard earned cash. But the massive comedy season line-ups are daunting and it’s hard to know where to start. With this in mind, we’ve picked out some of comedy’s best emerging and established talent, guaranteed to split your sides with their self-deprecating storytelling, irreverent wit and biting satire.Axis of Awesome comedian Jordan Raskopoulos on being transgender: 'I never felt right as a boy' Axis of AwesomeWon’t Ever Not Stop Giving UpIt’s been a year since Axis of Awesome fans started asking why Jordan Raskopoulos, the hirsute lead singer of the Aussie musical comedy trio, shaved off his beard. This month the comedian revealed why in a video equal parts moving and hilarious: after his transition to her, the beard is never coming back. Now known as Jordan Nicola Bridget Raskopoulos, along with band members Lee Naimo and Benny Davis they’ve prepared a whole new show. The trio that rose to prominence following a parody of the 2007 election and with their viral jibe at pop music’s pervasive four chord structure, they’re back with more observational comedy and musical parodies – not to mention 33% more gender diversity. Raskopoulos’s vocal range, it should be noted, remains the same.• Axis of Awesome will perform in Adelaide from 27 February to 1 March; Melbourne from 5 to 10 April; Sydney from 27 April to 7 May and Perth from 11 to 14 MaySam SimmonsNot a People PersonSam Simmons: Spaghetti for Breakfast review – hits sublime heights of tomfoolery Sam Simmons was perhaps the most envied comedian of 2015, having won not one but two of the most prestigious awards in stand-up: the Barry award at Melbourne’s comedy festival and the Foster’s gong in Edinburgh. And that was all with the same surreal show – and perhaps the same staple diet – Spaghetti for Breakfast. The brain that brought you millionaire cats eating Viennetta and a complete list of “things that shit me” (people who savour hot coffee; confusing commercials; walking into a room and then forgetting why) has a new hour of absurd, paranoid comedy. • Sam Simmons will perform in Adelaide from 29 February to 13 March; Brisbane from 15 to 20 March; and Melbourne from 24 March to 3 AprilBecky LucasBaby      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Brisbane comedian Becky Lucas is like ‘a nasty Claudia O’Doherty’. Photograph: Anneliese NappaSpeaking of Simmons, in 2015 the Guardian asked the comedian to name his top picks for comedy season. Becky Lucas was top of his list. She has “THE thing” he said, “like a nasty Claudia O’Doherty”.The prolific tweeter has opened for Wil Anderson, begun her own newsletter (there’s “no pressure” to read it), and written for ABC TV. Her comedy is irreverent, hard-hitting and the punchlines never miss their mark. Her show Baby will cover everything from cat calls to menulog. • Becky Lucas will perform in Brisbane from 8 to 13 March; and Melbourne from 24 March to 17 AprilTom BallardBoundless Plains to Share and The World Keeps HappeningIn two different comedy shows in 2016, former Triple J breakfast host, television personality and stand-up star Tom Ballard brings a couple of astute observations.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A voice for radio, a face for TV and now coming to a stage near you: Tom Ballard. Photograph: John Williams“What’s the deal with man’s inhumanity to man,” he asks in The World Keeps Happening. “How about those collective delusions about our mortality?” While solutions are yet to be found by the world’s biggest brains, this 26-year old comedian cum panel show host and podcaster has thought about these questions deep and hard – and found some lols therein.The 2015 Edinburgh best newcomer will then zoom from the global to local with Boundless Plains to Share, which was partly funded by a Moosehead grant. In this comedy lecture Ballard will tackle our nation’s “hilarious” immigration policy by tracing its history and unveiling the human cost involved. As the Welcome Australia ambassador has said before: “we need to throw our arms wide open and welcome one and all with beaming faces and party hats and music. If we don’t, we’ll be guilty of the greatest of all crimes in Australian society – being wankers.”• Tom Ballard will perform in Brisbane from 15 to 20 March; Melbourne from 24 March to 17 April; and Sydney 28 and 29 April Laura Davis Marco Polo and Ghost MachinePerth-born, Melbourne-based comedian Laura Davis has been performing stand-up since she was 19, when she won her local Triple J raw comedy competition and was sent to the Melbourne finals. That was her fifth ever show. The provoking comic has developed a new set every year since and picked up several gongs along the way, including the Golden Gibbo for Ghost Machine in 2015, which she’ll reprise in Brisbane.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Get set to play Marco Polo with Melbourne’s Laura Davis. Photograph: James PenlidisMany who spent their summer swimming in backyard pools will remember the game where a blindfolded swimmer calls out “Marco” and locates other players by their response (“Polo”). With a Moosehead award in hand, Davis will plunge into a giant above-ground pool with social media’s favourite pink blow-up toy to find some deeper meaning within the game. Previously her shows were infused with caustic humour and the content could get pretty bleak. This time audiences can look forward to a “softer show”, she says, “although [it’s] still fairly full on”. • Laura Davis will perform in Brisbane from 8 to 13 March; and Melbourne from 24 March to 17 AprilEdinburgh festival comedy review: Sammy J and the Forest of Dreams Sammy J & RandySammy J & Randy LandFresh from their Aacta-nominated show, Sammy J & Randy in Ricketts Lane, there are new obstacles to overcome. For their upcoming trick they borrowed three million dollars and opened a theme park: Sammy J & Randy Land. The petting zoo has closed due to quarantine restrictions and the fortune teller is under police investigation. Management will not be held liable for injury or death. Life’s a rollercoaster and the Barry-award winners Samuel Jonathan McMillan and puppeteer Heath McIvor are going to ride it in this piece of narrative theatre.Sammy J & Randy are touring Australia until 14 MayNazeem HussainHussain in the MembraneSince Nazeem Hussain’s debut at the Melbourne International Comedy festival in 2008 as one half of comedy duo Fear of a Brown Planet, he has fast become one of Australia’s most sought after comedy stars across TV, stage and radio – albeit one occasionally mistaken for Waleed Aly. Nazeem Hussain review – sardonic insights into everyday discrimination His comedy is clever and confronting and he is happy to send himself up. After collecting a Logie for his SBS show Legally Brown, and a Helpmann nomination for his stage work, Hussain is back for more with a show title inspired by Cypress Hill. • Nazeem Hussain will perform in Adelaide from 29 February to 6 March; Brisbane from 8 to 13 March; Canberra on 18 March; Melbourne from 27 March to 17 April; Sydney on 30 April; and Perth on 7 May      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sri Lankan Australian comedian Nazeem Hussain is coming soon to a comedy night near you. Photograph: Jonny Weeks for the GuardianHannah GadsbyDogmaticIn Josh Thomas’s ABC television series Please Like Me, Hannah Gadsby plays “Hannah”, a fictional version of herself.With a background in art history and curatorship, she has presented a number of comedy art tours with the National Gallery of Victoria, and in her new show the self-deprecating storyteller will take audiences on a curatorial tour through her brain. From her personal invitation: “I would like to invite you to attend my show, Dogmatic. I have worked very hard on it and I am a very charming performer. But these things alone do not maketh a show. I need you. I need you to buy a ticket, attend the relevant session and laugh at me. What a darling team we will be.”• Hannah Gadsby will perform in Canberra 4 and 5 March; Brisbane from 8 to 13 March; Hobart on 22 March; Melbourne from 24 March to 17 April; Perth on 23 April; and Sydney from 20 to 29 May Matt Okine Matt Okine      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   With an Aria in his pocket, Matt Okine presents his fifth solo show. Photograph: Zak KaczmarekMatt Okine on being the only half-Ghanaian Australian comedian in the room Stand-up comedian Matt Okine is used to being asked where he’s from. His reply – “Brisbane” – rarely satisfies. Okine’s Ghanan-European heritage has provided him much fodder for comedy, not to mention inspired the title of his breakthrough 2011 show, Being Black N Chicken N Shit, which saw him take home the best newcomer award at the 2012 Melbourne International Comedy festival. Since landing the job of Triple J’s breakfast co-host, Okine says he’s rich. Rich enough to smell how he’d like, pay rent and not care about which ATM he uses, that is. Following his 2015 Aria win for best comedy release he’s back with his fifth solo show.Matt Okine is touring Australia from 3 March to 14 MayAunty DonnaNew ShowSketch comedy’s renaissance trio Aunty Donna describe themselves as a bunch of boys who love dance concerts, hanging out with friends and mixed netball. While that might be true, the Ballarat boys also have more absurdist comedy under their belts and/or pantsuits than you could imagine. They’ve just released a new 10-part YouTube series and, following shows in Edinburgh and San Francisco, they’re on home soil with a wad of new material for this New Show. • Aunty Donna will perform in Adelaide from 3 to 6 March; Brisbane from 8 to 13 March; Sydney from 21 to 24 April; and Perth from 11 to 14 MayCelia PacquolaThrough the Looking GlassBehind the joke: Celia Pacquola, the Midnight Beast and Nathan Caton With signature self-deprecation, Celia Pacquola – also known as Nat from Utopia, Ange from Offspring and Dolly from The Beautiful Lie – points out there are benefits to being single. You can move through crowds quicker, for example.This year marks her 10th anniversary in comedy. In 2006 her then-boyfriend signed her up to the national raw comedy competition and she walked out with best first time entrant. In a decade of touring across the UK and Australia she’s unpacked everything, from long-term and long-distance relationships to her mother’s application for a pilot licence. • Celia Pacquola will perform Brisbane 8 to 13 March; and Melbourne from 30 March to 4 April