When it comes to the meta-humans of the movie world, there’s no shortage of maximalist costumes; a superhero or villain’s style is as much a part of their character as the ability to climb walls or fly. But it’s a crowded market: nailing a look that’s distinct from Iron Man’s red and gold suits, the Hulk’s Marni-esque green and purple palette, Batman’s none-blacker Bat-black or Superman’s all-American red and blue isn’t easy. (No wonder Jessica Jones didn’t bother getting dressed up …) Here’s a look at three of the latest – while Wonder Woman’s solo outing won’t be with us until next year, Suicide Squad is out this week.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Quinn and bare it … Margot Robbie in Suicide Squad. Photograph: Moviestore/Rex/ShutterstockHarley QuinnStyle: Rollergirl-Barbie.Accessories: Baseball bat, bubble gum, super-short shorts.In a film that already stands out in the superhero pack by flipping the script and pushing the baddies to the front, it’s Margot Robbie’s mismatched pink and blue pigtails and disarming smile that look like the star turn. With a ripped “Daddy’s Lil Monster” T-shirt and a silk baseball jacket that says “Ryan who?”, expect to see an overload of Quinn cosplay at Halloween this year; in the meantime, sit back and wonder how long it will be before Moschino snap Robbie up.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cara Delevingne in Suicide Squad. Photograph: Warner Bros.EnchantressStyle: Hard goth meets Shakespears Sister.Accessories: Metallic crescent fascinator, moody stare.With the strongest fashion credentials among the Suicide Squad cast, Cara Delevingne is no stranger to a strong look; more surprising here is the way she seems to be sitting back from the frow, letting Harley Q and the gang take the limelight. From the looks of the trailer, Enchantress’s main power seems to be throwing shade rather than fireballs. The look? Pile on the Kohl, summon those dark Rodarte AW16 forces.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gal Gadot as Wonder Woman. Photograph: Supplied by LMKWonder WomanStyle: Amazon prime.Accessories: Lasso of truth, matching cuffs and tiara, sword, boots with built-in kneepads.Part bondage fantasy, part proto-feminist, Wonder Woman’s complicated status as the only woman to stand shoulder to shoulder with Batman and Superman has been reflected in the changes to her fashion sense through the years. From the golden-age 1940s comics where she fought crime in a puffy ra-ra skirt, to Lynda Carter’s iconic 70s version (satin bodice and shorts, stars and stripes cape, occasional all-in-one swimsuit) and the exaggerated curves of the Justice League cartoons, we now reach Gal Gadot’s incarnation, all Saint Lauren AW16 leather in muted tones – the ultimate power leotard. 