It’s an age-old question in parenting: how to get your children to eat more greens? Or indeed, any greens. Or just one pea will do … even if it’s swimming in ketchup.With figures showing that one in 10 British pupils are obese when they start primary school and only one in five children eat vegetables every day, the issue of how to get kids to eat healthy continues to be fiercely debated. The answer, according to obesity campaigner Tam Fry, is controversial: bribe them with cash. The spokesperson for the National Obesity Forum suggests that putting small amounts of money into a bank account in exchange for a child eating greens could be a solution to the obesity crisis.It’s not the first time bribery – or, if you prefer, a reward system – has been touted as a way to combat obesity. In 2016, a study published in the US journal Health Economics gave 8,000 school children 25 cents for eating healthily. The results showed the number of children eating at least one serving of fruit or veg doubled. However, psychologists argue that coercion of any kind - whether cash in an account or the classic warning to “finish your greens if you want ice cream” - can have longstanding negative effects on a child’s relationship with food. “As long as we make food ‘healthy’ or ‘good’ food an issue we are going to produce anxiety,” says psychotherapist Susie Orbach. “We should just eat well when we are hungry.”For parents who blanch at the thought of exchanging cash for courgettes with their children, there’s the exposure method. The Tiny Tastes game is based on University College London research that revealed that if children tasted a new vegetable at least 10 times, even the most reluctant would eat more of it. Launched in partnership with Weight Concern in 2013, the £5.99 Tiny Tastes pack turns the introduction of vegetables into a “fun game” by offering a child a tiny piece of a chosen vegetable for 10 days in a row (minimum), with accompanying record charts, stickers, and colouring sheets.In recent years the hidden vegetables industry, encouraging parents to sneak veg into meals, has flourished. In the US, companies such as Oh Yes Foods, which sells pizza loaded with 12 kinds of dehydrated, powdered fruit and veg, and Kidfresh, which promises “no more battles or headaches at mealtime with your little ones … we bring a fresh twist to vegetables: It is as if they were not there,” have sprung up. Entire cookbooks, including the likes of The Sneaky Chef by Missy Chase Lapine, are devoted to the pursuit of hiding veg. Even Jamie Oliver has a recipe for hidden vegetable pasta sauce.Such subterfuge is either regarded as a clever, creative response to veg rejection or a violation of trust that can only backfire. Basically, if your child doesn’t know she is eating sprouts, she still doesn’t really like sprouts. Also, it makes sprouts look bad enough to require hiding. “Is broccoli really so terrible that it must be concealed from innocent minds?” asks food writer Bee Wilson. “A far cleverer thing would be to help children learn to become adults who choose vegetables consciously, of their own accord.” The question is, how on earth do we do that?