Front Lines is an interesting book which combines historical fact with the fictional inclusion of women on the front lines in the second world war. Whilst 350,000 women did serve in roles such as the Women’s Airforce Service Pilots in the US army, the book re-imagines the war as though women were able to fight on the front lines in major battles such as The Battle of Kasserine Pass, at which there were 2,546 US casualties.In the opening chapters, Front Lines seems to be a traditional war book focusing on the lives of soldiers before they leave for war, but as the plot picks up speed, the book becomes less and less traditional as the women are first shipped off to Europe and then to Tunisia, where they find that despite all their training, they are not prepared for the gravity of death.At first the book focuses on the brutal training regimes that soldiers had to undergo, but underneath all of the military bravado, there is an undertone of a thirst for social justice. However, the book is not only about the injustices that the heroines of the book face but the injustices that black people in the US military also faced. This is why the tale of Frangie, a black female medic, is so poignant, because as Stephen Ambrose said, the USA fought the world’s greatest and most infamous racist while ‘it maintained a segregated army abroad and a total system of discrimination at home’.The tale of Frangie serves to highlight both the sexism and racism that existed at the time, a prejudice that was so bad that when wounded white soldiers are looking for a medic to dress their wounds, ‘about half turn back when they see the colour of her face’. Frangie’s story is a tale of her determination to become a medic despite the fact that she is nearly ‘washed out’ of basic training due to the fact that she barely has the strength to wield a gun.All of the female protagonists in Front Lines are trying to escape something; from Jenou, who is trying to escape an alcoholic and abusive home, to Rio who has just lost her older sister, Rachael, in a naval attack. Their lives run parallel to one another throughout the book, although at The Battle of Kasserine Pass, the women are united. Every character in the book has to deal with discrimination, from Jenou and Rio who have to deal with the fierce sexism within the army, to Rainy who faces anti-semitism and Frangie who faces intense racism. Every character in the book is well-rounded and strong with their own personality and voice which is what makes this book so special. At first, the majority of the women appear to be patriotic, with a hatred of the enemy, but as the book progresses, this hatred and idealism fades to a love of the people who are fighting alongside them and a desire to make it through the war so they can go back to their homes and their lives. In the war, everyone seems to adopt a different persona and Rio is one of the biggest examples of this; she begins the book as a naive farm-girl who has never so much as kissed a boy and ends it as a crack shot who picks off enemy soldiers one by one. However, we all know that when the war ends, she’ll put this persona into a box and become Rio again, the girl who we fell in love with at the start of the book when she began her sweet romance with Strand, the handsome pilot.How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? Front Lines is an imaginative book yet the only ‘alternate’ part of it seems to be the fact that there are women throwing grenades as well as men. From the plucky heroines to the emotive descriptions of everything that they lost in the war, such as friends, limbs and themselves, this is an unforgettable book which was impossible to put down and judging from the relatively open ending, I suspect that there might be another book in the making, which I will definitely be reading. Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!