Every December for the last few years, I have failed. Whenever the time comes to compile the Guardian’s best TV of the year list, I will inevitably put Channel 4’s Great Canal Journeys near the top of my ballot and roar “Who’s with me?” at my colleagues like Braveheart on the battlefield. Then the list gets published, and Great Canal Journeys is nowhere to be seen, and I’ll slink away defeated.But enough is enough. I cannot possibly be the only person in the world who enjoys Great Canal Journeys. Sure, it’s scheduled against The X Factor and Planet Earth II, which means that it’s probably watched by a maximum audience of three. Sure, it suffers from a chronically bland name that makes it sound like a slower, duller Michael Portillo series. But the reality is that it’s a charming, sad, hopeful, funny, gorgeously made programme that drips with affection. There might not be a more underrated series on television at the moment.I get why people might not want to watch Great Canal Journeys. Ostensibly, it sounds awful – a couple of plummy old thespians pootling down a waterway – but once you’re in, it’s almost unbearably poignant. The two plummy thespians in question are, after all, Timothy West and Prunella Scales; both now in their 80s and aware that they’re slowly drifting towards the end of the line. Scales in particular is disarmingly open about what West calls her “slight condition”; her struggle with Alzheimer’s disease.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The pair have a lifelong passion for canals, so it makes perfect sense that this should be how they spend their sunset. Photograph: Channel 4Every episode (there have been 19 so far) tends to show a glimpse of what Prunella finds herself up against. She’ll make a small mistake, or forget the name of a place, or get caught on camera looking slightly lost and uncertain, and West will carefully guide her back to his side. For all the pretty scenery, it can be a bracingly unvarnished look at dementia – once every few episodes, West’s frustrations will bubble to the surface and he’ll snap – but more than that, Great Canal Journeys is a programme about companionship.West and Scales have a lifelong passion for canals, and every episode is dotted with footage and photos showing them growing up on boats and falling in love on boats and raising a family on boats. So it makes perfect sense that this should be how they spend their sunset. Out on the water, it’s like no time has passed. They have scenery to enjoy and duties to uphold. But more than that, they have each other. Watching Great Canal Journeys is like catching a glimpse of a lovely old couple holding hands in the park, except they’re letting you follow them around for an hour.This latest clutch of episodes – like all the others, dripped out a handful at a time every few months – concern Scotland and the West Country. Although last week’s West Country episode was perhaps a shade too on the nose thematically, predominantly revolving around Timothy West’s latest production of King Lear, it doesn’t really matter where they’re going. Great Canal Journeys is ultimately a work about a devoted couple facing something huge together. It’s a beautiful, meditative programme. It won’t make the best-of list again, I expect, but it deserves to.