The annual tip list onslaught is finally over. Everyone had a go at forecasting this year: traditional publications, tech companies, brands, your dad’s mate who once played golf with a man who worked for Island Records in the 1980s. The general consensus is, quite rightly, that 2017 will continue to see grime and UK rap gaining massive global attention. Rag’n’Bone Man’s epic outpouring of blues and soul will undoubtedly soundtrack sports events and televised festival coverage, and it has just been announced that Ray BLK was crowned winner of the BBC Music Sound of … poll. An outsider option, but one that very much affirms the ascent of British rap. But who was the real winner? The scientific winner? Using the internet, a bunsen burner and a thermometer, I took a look at this year’s poll results and discovered which artists had received the majority of votes overall. Taking into account results from Vevo, i-D, Google Play, Spotify, MTV, BBC Music Sound of …, the Brits, the Independent, Red Bull, NME and Billboard, the artists below are the acts who were named most in short and longlists – revealing some joint winners, and the odd underdog in between. Joint firstAJ TraceyThe west London MC is one of UK grime’s most anticipated new voices. Born in Brixton and brought up in Ladbroke Grove, his childhood was soundtracked by UK garage and dancehall (plus the musical taste of his Welsh mum – a DJ who loves NWA). Backed by his MTP crew of producers and MCs and collaborating with fellow Londoner Dave, aside from freestyles and live shows, Tracey has taken a slow dripfeed approach to releasing singles. His hopes are to extend and accelerate the legacy of grime for a new generation, rather than imitate what’s already happened. “I’m so bored of this nostalgia,” he told Dummy magazine last year. “The new grime kids feel like they have to reference Dizzee or D Double, or spit on an old beat to get people to listen to them, and it’s boring.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest AJ Tracey: Pasta – official videoNadia Rose Cousin of Stormzy, possessor of wit, style and the level of mischief that the British music scene is pining for. Rose built a fanbase on social media with her bass-heavy, bashment-infused rap. Her track Skwod was one of the biggest statements of 2016; a savage swipe at her enemies but mostly a celebration of her friends, her video featuring the rapper dancing down a street like the pied piper of UK rap. “I’m your worst nightmare stood over your bed,” is among one of many of her declarations, a warning – or maybe a challenge – to anyone else hoping to break big in 2017.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Nadia Rose: Skwod - official videoRayeRaye is only 18 years old, but her CV reveals an artist already ingrained in the music industry. She did two years at the Brit School before ducking out (“I felt confined. I was ready to get out,” she told the BBC) and released her first EP Welcome to the Winter in 2014. Her song Hotbox, about an “inherited high”, written aged 14 while sitting in a car full of people smoking weed, caught the attention of Olly Alexander of Years & Years, and led to her getting signed. She’s been part of writers’ rooms – including one for Rihanna – as well as supporting Jess Glynne on tour. A close collaborator with pop hit-maker Charli XCX, her music’s got huge potential across the pond, repackaging the sparse, frosty production and laidback R&B vocal style found on Drake, Tinashe or Jhené Aiko.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Raye: I, U, Us - official videoJoint secondRag’n’Bone ManFrom Uckfield, East Sussex, he’s the Brits critics’ choice award-winner, whose cavernous voice rumbles over samples from old blues and soul records. It’s a sort of extension of the “real music” rootsy folk revival spearheaded by Mumford & Sons, only this incarnation is covered in tattoos rather than tweed. “Sometimes people think I’m scary because I’m a big dude and I’m covered in tattoos – I feel like strangers are wary of me,” he told the Guardian in 2016. “I get funny looks from old people. The thing is, that person that people see does not come across in my personality or music at all. I like trying to break those barriers of what is expected of a man.” Such is the grand earnestness of the production and its relatable, introspective lyrics on the single Human, he has already been a massive success across Europe, and has topped the charts in Austria, Belgium, Germany, Hungary, Slovakia and Switzerland.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Rag’n Bone Man: Human – official videoStefflon DonStephanie Allen is a rapper whose candy coloured aesthetic and lyrical fearlessness has naturally gained comparisons to Lil’ Kim and Nicki Minaj. A former hairdresser, her upbringing was in Birmingham and Holland before moving to London at the age of 15. The formative part of her career started with channels SB:TV and Link Up TV, before she was picked up by Sony. If the past few years has seen UK grime influencing and terrifying major-league US stars, then global rap acts ought to take note of the tornado-force talent from Stefflon Don. “If your main focus is on being the best, you can break anywhere,” she told Fact magazine recently. “That’s my focus. With my grind, I go in. I feel like I have potential to be the biggest artist.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Stefflon Don: Real Ting – official vieoTom GrennanMuch of Grennan’s music belongs in the same bracket as Rag’n’Bone Man: a sensitive, soulful songwriter and, aesthetically, a bit of a lad. Whereas in previous years, solo troubadours, such as Sam Smith, James Bay and Tom Odell, have been clean-cut and on constant standby for a GQ shoot, now it appears an audience would rather have a singer more at home busking under a bridge in Camden. So far his career has been ordained by Chase and Status, who borrowed his intense, gravelly croon for their single All Goes Wrong, and, inexplicably, has been signed to Craig David’s Insanity label.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Tome Grennan: Sweet Hallelujah – official videoThirdWill Joseph CookHailing from Tunbridge Wells in Kent, Cook, one of those YouTube acoustic sort-of stars, has now evolved into a streaming success story with his original material. His peppy songwriting is often bolstered by colourful videos, in which he is frequently dressed as a woman and making thinly veiled comments about the futile nature of modern celebrity and romance. He was brought up listening to the quirkier side of guitar groups in the noughties – MGMT, Vampire Weekend, Everything Everything – and, as a result, his music is a very packageable, melodic type of wry pop.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Will Joseph Cook: Sweet Dreamer – official video