Invictus: the Road to the Games7pm, BBC1The Invictus Games return this Sunday, showcasing international teams of armed services personnel moving forward after life-changing injuries or illnesses. The 2016 Games take place in Orlando with 15 countries competing in 10 events, from archery to wheelchair basketball. Nick Knowles launches the BBC’s coverage by shadowing competitors hoping to secure their place in the UK squad, while founding patron Prince Harry catches up with some London 2014 veterans. Graeme VirtuePosh Neighbours at War7.30pm, Channel 4This documentary about disputes between top tax bracketees opens with a proper Kensington kerfuffle. Zipporah Lisle-Mainwaring has painted her home in a manner befitting a barber’s pole, setting neighbourhood curtains a-twitching. Meanwhile, Notting Hill resident (and sibling of Boris) Rachel Johnson bemoans living alongside a basement build. Viewers arriving home to a bucketful of bills may wish they had set enough money aside to purchase the world’s smallest violin. Mark Gibbings-JonesMasterChef: the Finals8.30pm, BBC1Stripped across the week, the last five contestants standing must cook ever-more impressive things, adding flourish and flavour while retaining the basic principles of cooking, or else Baldy and Jowly will frown. Tonight, the five travel to Bristol’s Old Vic theatre to whip up dramatic delights for five leading actors. Then, back to the stainless-steel persecution kitchen to produce a personally inspired dish before one of them is eliminated and left in a wheelie bin in the car park. Julia RaesideVeep10pm, Sky AtlanticA double bill to kick off season five, with Julia Louis-Dreyfus’s unceasingly and hilariously obnoxious Selina Meyer suffering a stress pimple as the presidential race produces a dead heat. (“Didn’t those founding fuckers ever hear of an odd number?”) But could there be a recount in Nevada? Somehow she retains the loyalty of her fretful, ambitious staff, with even Amy back in the fold. The wit is as sharp as ever, while memorable calamities, including an all-white race symposium, abound. David StubbsThe Island with Bear Grylls9pm, Channel 4The latest marooning at the hands of adventurer Bear Grylls comes to an end – and the group are not in a particularly good way, suffering from a combination of brutal storms, insufficient shelter and not enough food. In a final push, the female competitors gather their energy for a last search for grub, while Simon leads a hunt into the jungle, seeking out the most dangerous predator on the island, the caiman crocodile. What could possibly go wrong? Ben ArnoldMarcella9pm, ITVThe pace gathers in the fifth episode of eight, with a confession, more deaths, a vanishing and a revelation that’s bigger than all of the above. It’s the kind of plot that leaves characters having to open scenes by saying, “Remember …?” If you’re keeping up, you might not mind that this whodunnit doesn’t have the deft character work of creator Hans Rosenfeldt’s masterpiece, The Bridge. Glassy views of empty central London lend Marcella its tone instead: eerie, if a little hollow. Jack SealeFear the Walking Dead9pm, AMC from BTThe zombie-related carnage continues in this entertaining prequel. While there’s a lot to be said for his decision to put his family on Strand’s boat, Travis’s role as a general common-sense man able to fix things isn’t without its issues. Meanwhile, a scavenging mission to some twisted fuselage reveals hidden talents in rehab regular Nick – and some nasty surprises for Chris. It’s all gripping stuff, like an Alan Ayckbourn drama but with quality undead content. John RobinsonTV FILMSKiller Joe, (William Friedkin, 2011), 11.25pm, Film4Something evil stirs in deepest darkest Texas … Adapted by Tracy Letts from his play, this gruesome noir stars Matthew McConaughey as saturnine cop-cum-hitman Killer Joe, hired by a family of trailer trash to dispose of the father’s (Thomas Haden Church) ex-wife and pocket an insurance payout; Joe’s reward being comely daughter Dottie (Juno Temple). But when you deal with the devil, there’s a high price to pay … Paul HowlettLIVE SPORTCounty Cricket: Nottinghamshire v Yorkshire 10.55am, Sky Sports 2Last year’s County Champions visit Trent Bridge.World Championship Snooker 2pm, BBC2The final reaches its conclusion at the Crucible Theatre in Sheffield.Premier League Football: Chelsea v Tottenham Hotspur 7pm, Sky Sports 1Either a title decider or just a fiercely contested London derby, depending on Leicester’s result.