Brazil: ‘I was shocked by Berta’s murder, but not surprised’Paulo Adario, Greenpeace senior forest strategist and UN Forest Hero, BrazilI’ve had death threats myself because of my fights in the Amazon. In the early 2000s, I had to be protected by bodyguards 24 hours a day for over a year. Being in that situation is one of the worst experiences a person can have.But my country also has one of the richest environments in the world and so I’ve dedicated my life to protecting the Amazon because it’s important for my kids and grandkids to see it survive.I am worried about the future. The Amazon is the agricultural frontier and tensions are growing between ranchers and indigenous people who are competing for the land. Hundreds of indigenous people have been murdered over land disputes. However, I am proud that deforestation in Brazil has been reduced by more than 70% in the last ten years – we have that even if the violence continues.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Paulo Adario: ‘Brazil is the most dangerous country in the world to be an environmental activist.’ Photograph: Anderson Araújo/GreenpeaceLatin American governments do need to step up though – they support the system that allow indigenous people to be killed just because they want to protect their homes in the face of the continued expansion of the economy. I feel the murder of Berta Cáceres has helped to build a global consciousness about environmentalist murders in remote areas. But we need to keep this pressure up so the people who want to kill us can’t attack with impunity. Everyone who is consuming a product coming from a forest has a responsibility to put an end to this violence. I was shocked by Berta’s murder, but I don’t know if I’m surprised anymore. There’s enormous pressure against environmentalists in Latin America who are simply fighting for a better life.Guatemala: ‘I have buried many activists’Claudia Samayoa, director, Protection Unit of Human Rights Defenders in GuatemalaHitmen have tried to kill me three times by driving me off the road in Guatemala. Luckily, I’m a good driver. I also learned to avoid driving near the side of the road and to always check if your brakes have been tampered with. I now never drive alone.Another time, they were waiting for me outside my office. Fortunately my colleagues are trained to pick up on strange behaviour. They noticed men with large arms outside and I avoided the ambush.  Claudia Samayoa: ‘I remain optimistic and hopeful. I will keep protecting activists for my whole life.’ Photograph: Protection Unit of Human Rights Defenders in GuatemalaAs a human rights defender, I have been under attack for two decades from both illegal and legal powers. Death threats now feel completely normal. I receive about two to three each year. I have had them by phone, email and letter. I experience constant intimidation and defamation campaigns. My children have also been targeted.I began working on human rights issues at the age of 17. In 2000 I founded the Unit for Protection of Human Rights Defenders of Guatemala where we monitor attacks. Since we began we have recorded over 4,500 attacks. Around 80% of these are against those working on environmental and indigenous peoples issues. Many are working on the negative impacts of mining, palm oil and dam building in the country.Conservationist murders threaten Costa Rica's eco-friendly reputation We also provide protection for activists in the wider region and teach them how to increase their personal security. I met Berta Cáceres when we were trying to develop a protection programme for indigenous communities. Berta took all the cautionary measures you can take. Her death shows us how vulnerable we all are. I have buried many activists we weren’t able to fully protect.Our organisation also provides psychosocial support to defenders. Working on these issues in this region can take a great emotional and physical toll. But I remain optimistic and hopeful. I will keep protecting activists for my whole life. I still believe we can make things better for humanity.Costa Rica: ‘Something very serious is happening in Central America’Carlos Manuel Rodríguez, senior policy adviser, Conservation International and former minister of environment and energy, Costa RicaNature conservation is very close to my heart. I grew up watching the rainforest of Costa Rica being destroyed. It made me proud to grow from a young environmental activist to be appointed as minister of environment and energy. In that position I was able to promote a lot of conservation policies that generated very positive changes in Costa Rica.In the early 1990s I actively participated in campaigns to protect rivers against dam construction in Costa Rica, so I identify with the work that Berta was doing in Honduras.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Carlos Manuel Rodríguez: ‘Environmental conflicts are being “solved” by hiring people from organised crime to kill people’. Photograph: Conservation InternationalThere’s something very serious happening in Central America, particularly in the northern countries – El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala – which [includes] violence, organised crime and drug trafficking. We have seen a clear tendency of using hitmen to threaten or kill people who are complaining about environmental-related issues. Environmental conflicts are being “solved” by hiring people from organised crime to kill people who threaten an economic activity, an economic interest or a major project.Not only Berta has died in this conflict with hydro companies in Honduras, a lot of people within her movement have been killed. Costa Rica is not exempt from this problem. Environmentalist Jairo Mora who worked on marine turtle conservation was murdered by a group of drug lords. The conservation was done in an area where they traffic drugs and they felt that he was threatening that.First coal-fired power plant in Kenya met with local opposition As a minister I was threatened a couple of times by hotel developers in Costa Rica. I had to ask for protection for almost a year. If you can be threatened as a minister imagine what can happen to people who don’t have that political position?We need to continue to work through the legal and political mechanisms that are available. We also need to push for more transparency and independence in the judicial system. Corruption and violence, through organised crime, are the biggest problems.El Salvador: ‘We will never lose our faith’Vidalina Morales, president, Association for Economic and Social Development of El Salvador (ADES)I felt indignation and sadness at Berta’s murder. I cried a lot and felt pain. And it is not a unique case. Through this decade many others have been murdered in Honduras for defending their lands. Here in El Salvador we have had four environmentalists murdered including Dora Sorto who was eight months pregnant. Without a doubt, the struggle to defend our territories and to protect the environment is alive throughout the continent.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Vidalina Morales: ‘We will continue to push the government and legislative assembly for a total prohibition on mining.’ Photograph: Pedro‎ CabezasWhen we receive threats we first denounce them publicly, at the local, national and international level. We also take our own security measures: we never walk alone, we never take the same route, and always let someone know where we are going. In many cases we have had to send people out of the community. And when the risk to life is imminent, we send them out of the country.With ADES, we have been fighting to stop the introduction of mining projects in Cabañas, and El Salvador, for the last ten years. We are also working with farming communities to change practices in the use of pesticides and foster farming practices that are a sustainable alternative to mining. And, we work on community education campaigns to inform the population about the negative impacts of mining and extractive industries. Hope is the last thing you lose. In El Salvador we will continue to push the government and legislative assembly for a total prohibition on mining. We will continue to mobilise so that we are heard by the government and we will never lose our faith. We know, however, that multinational corporations are powerful and their capacity to influence decision making is also strong; so, we are facing a David v Goliath struggle. But, we will continue to advance the work we do in defence of our territories. Peru: ‘Repression is increasing, but at the same time there’s greater awareness internationally’Majandra Rodriguez Acha, activist with TierrActiva, PeruPeru is the fourth most dangerous country to be an environmental defender. But it’s not across the board; it depends on where you live, where you fit in in terms of the social, economic and political hierarchy. Peru is a highly unequal country – if you’re an environmental defender living in a rural area under poverty line, and maybe Spanish isn’t your first language, and you try to oppose a company that’s trying to cut down the food sources you depend on, or oppose a mining company that’s polluting the water you rely on, then your life is in danger.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Majandra Rodriguez Acha: ‘If you’re an environmental defender living in a rural area, your life is in danger.’ Photograph: Majandra Rodriguez AchaLike in Honduras, if you happen to be an indigenous woman like Berta Cáceres, you will be exposed to a lot of violence. But if you’re from a relatively privileged context, working as a youth volunteer at a private university, you won’t know that there’s somebody else who is doing similar advocacy, but is at risk because of the different social background.In these more privileged and urban circles it can be easy to talk about the environment – about recycling and consuming sustainable products. But if you go to protests and demand that the government takes a stronger stance, there’s a lot of police repression. The last rally we held against TPP (Trans-Pacific Partnership), over 45 people were detained by the police. The police shot rubber bullets at people – there was a girl who had multiple wounds in her legs just for being in a public space, expressing their right to peaceful protest. This kind of repression is increasing, but at the same time there’s greater awareness internationally. Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.