When I was a boy growing up in Northern Ireland, I attended a Roman Catholic school run by Christian Brothers. I was taught the Irish language, but not Irish history. Looking back, that seems to sum up the paradoxical sense of belonging and yet not belonging that defined the Northern Irish Catholic identity. We were officially British, instinctively Irish.Easter Rising 100 years on: share your photos and stories I remember a school trip to Dublin. We disembarked the train at Pearse station, which was named, like Connolly station, after a leader of the Easter Rising. We visited the General Post Office on O’Connell Street, which had been occupied by rebels on Easter Monday 1916, and Kilmainham jail, where the captured leaders were executed by the British. In the afternoon, after eating our packed lunches in Phoenix Park, we went to the zoo.It is the sombre, brooding atmosphere of Kilmainham jail that lingers all these years later. Our tour guide was an elderly woman who, in 1916, had actually been in Cumann na mBan, the women’s wing of the self-styled Army of the Irish Republic. Her voice wavered as she described how the British shot the “brave” leaders, who were prepared to sacrifice everything in the cause of Irish freedom. Tears welled up as she described the death of James Connolly who, incapacitated by his injuries, had been carried into the prison courtyard on a stretcher, tied to a chair and shot. His body had been dumped, alongside those of the others, in a mass grave without coffins.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   5th Leicesters on Holles Street, Dublin. Photograph: Sean Sexton CollectionWe stood around in silence, awkward and embarrassed by her raw emotion. It seemed to us to belong to another era, another Ireland long gone – and with it, the Irish Republican Army and the cause of Irish freedom.I was a child of the 1960s, with all its unruly optimism. I listened to English pop music on the radio and played soccer on the street in thrall to the glamour and style of English teams. Nightly, I watched images of the Vietnam war on the news and witnessed the US and European youth protests against it. The world was changing but, as always, the action was elsewhere.Until, that is, a young generation of activists emerged in Northern Ireland, inspired by the US civil rights movement and the radical protest movements fermenting across Europe. In October 1968, one of the first marches organised by the Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association took place in Derry, before the marchers were attacked by police wielding batons. When we turned on the TV news that evening, we saw ourselves for the first time.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dublin’s Sackville Street in ruins after the Easter Rising. Photograph: Sean Sexton CollectionIn November, another march took place in my hometown of Armagh, but was blocked by the police because a mob of loyalists had taken over the town centre. There were riots that evening and for several nights afterwards. Like many teenagers, I was caught up in the activism and the anarchy. We built barricades, made petrol bombs, waged street war on the police with bricks and bottles and talked endlessly about the coming revolution. We were just kids, but we were excited by this time of great upheaval and filled with unbridled optimism. I look back at it now as the last utopian moment before the darkness descended.Many of the younger protestors were students belonging to a more radical socialist group called the People’s Democracy. I was drawn to their attitude as much as anything. When they marched, it was behind the red flag of international socialism, not the Irish tricolour. When they sang, it was The Internationale, not the Irish rebel songs of old. I still remember their chants, which bemused many of the older marchers: “Ho Ho Ho Chi Minh / We shall fight and we shall win” and “Two, four, six, eight / Organise and smash the state.”Although Northern Ireland’s unionists thought otherwise, the Easter Rising of 1916 was not a touchstone for those protests. The IRA, like the old woman in Kilmainham and the “rebel songs” my grandfather sang, belonged to the long-ago rhetoric of Irish nationalism, rather than civil rights. Or at least that’s how we saw it.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   British soldiers on the Falls Road, Belfast, during rioting on 15 August 1969. Photograph: Popperfoto/Getty ImagesThe events of August 1969 changed all that. On the six o’clock news, we watched in disbelief and anger the fierce rioting in Derry and the extraordinary images of thousands of Catholic people fleeing their burning homes in Belfast. At home in Armagh, a local man was killed when police reservists opened fire on an unruly crowd that had gathered after a civil rights meeting. It was the most sustained period of political violence in Ireland since the 1920s, and it changed everything, not least because it left many fearful Northern Irish Catholics asking a question that reverberated back though Irish history: who will protect us if the state will not?Soon after, while walking home with some friends, I caught an ominous glimpse of the answer: two young men with rifles waiting near the entrance to the housing estate where I lived. Later that evening, I heard the sharp crack of gunfire as they opened fire on police vehicles on the ring road. The reborn IRA was now a fixed presence in our lives, shadowy but real.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An Irish hunger striker in 1920. Photograph: Sean Sexton CollectionSeamus Heaney evokes a similar moment in his poem Triptych: After a Killing :There they were, as if our memory hatched them,As if the unquiet founders walked again:Two young men with rifles on the hill,Profane and bracing as their instruments.Those lines brilliantly capture the moment when the narrative of the Troubles shifted from a peaceful utopian struggle for civil rights to a violent nationalist struggle for self-determination. An older, unfinished drama was somehow being played out with a vengeance.The sacrifice of Easter, 1916, which WB Yeats called “a terrible beauty”, again became the defining symbol for a new generation of young people prepared to die – and kill – in pursuit of a united Ireland. Their deaths, in turn, inspired other young volunteers throughout the 30 years of violence that followed.Now, as the Troubles are fading into history, the tumultuous events of Easter 1916 are about to be remembered, replayed in Irish TV dramas and documentaries and in endless debates. On both sides of the Irish border, this year’s centenary of the Easter Rising will be a highly contested historical event. For Irish republicans of every hue, it remains a deeply symbolic, almost sacred moment: the blood sacrifice that defined their cause as well as the absolute commitment required to serve it.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Constance Markievicz, the so-called ‘rebel countess’. Photograph: Sean Sexton CollectionFor the Irish state, it is also a defining historical moment that must be marked, however reluctant the more conservative sections of the Irish political and social establishment are to do so. Given that Dublin elected its first Sinn Féin lord mayor last June, republicans will have some influence on the 1916 celebrations, though it seems more likely that the revolutionary spirit and violent legacy of the “unquiet founders” will be played down rather that emphasised.As a myth, the Easter Rising no longer exerts power over the collective Irish psyche in the way it once did. Neither – despite much recent scholarship illuminating how complex the road to independence was, and how impulsively self-defeating the actions of the rebels were – has it faded into history. The events of 1968 and all that flowed from them are a reminder of how potent that moment was and how quickly its cause can be reinvigorated.The ashes of the past will certainly be raked over again this Easter in Ireland and, no doubt, greeted with bemused indifference in the UK, where there seems to be little public interest in Britain’s long and often brutal role in shaping its neighbour’s contested history and divided culture. In Ireland, it may well take another centenary to come and go before the turbulent spirit of the “unquiet founders” is stilled by history and for their heirs to accept that, as Yeats put it, it is “enough to know they dreamed and are dead”.• This is an edited extract from an article written for the Photographers’ Gallery, London. The Easter Rising 1916 runs from 22 January to 3 April.