Rick Stein’s Long Weekends9pm, BBC2Are travel/cookery shows merely paid holidays for celebs? The argument is strengthened by the premise of the Padstow grub tycoon’s new show: it’s a series of mini-breaks, starting here with a tour of the markets, restaurants, cafes and bars of Bordeaux in autumn. Stein is easily indulged, however: he’s a relaxed and engaging presenter and, as viewers of his 2005 French odyssey will recall, he counts Bordelais cuisine as prime among his many areas of impassioned expertise. Jack SealeFlying Scotsman With Robson Green9pm, ITVGreen goes a bit Guy Martin for this highly enjoyable one-off, mucking in during the year-long effort to restore the world’s most famous steam engine to its original glory. As well as doing a spot of welding, Green traces the Flying Scotsman’s long history, from its record-breaking non-stop journey between London and Edinburgh in 1928 to a bizarre diplomatic mission crisscrossing the US in the late 1960s and early 70s. Chuffing great. Graeme VirtueThe Everly Brothers: Harmonies from Heaven9pm, BBC4In 1973, a pair of angelic-voiced stars imploded on stage in a riot of booze, recrimination and smashed guitars – an ignominious end to a career that blazed briefly but altered the rock’n’roll landscape. In this gorgeous (and gorgeous-sounding) tribute, surviving brother Don tells their story, while musicians and critics, including Art Garfunkel, Jake Bugg and Paul Gambaccini testify to the Everlys’ peculiar genius. Ali CatterallTwo Doors Down10pm, BBC2Characters from last year’s festive Scottish comedy are reborn into a generally funny sitcom. The premises can be pretty thin – tonight’s is that evergreen plot standby “man wanting peace and quiet is constantly interrupted” – and the characters often feel as if they have moved north from Gavin and Stacey. Still, there’s some good caustic humour, not least when Eric reveals he’s given up drinking. His neighbour Cathy is incredulous: “Not even a beer in the morning?” John RobinsonBen Fogle: The Great African Migration9pm, Channel 5Solid-enough nature documentary, in which Fogle follows the epic annual procession of more than a million wildebeest from the Serengeti in Tanzania to the Masai Mara in Kenya. The principal drawback may be gleaned from the title; the excessive foregrounding of the presenter who, affable and capable though he may be, is some way less interesting than the awesome natural spectacle about which he is commenting. Andrew MuellerBlue Eyes9pm, More4This prescient drama imagining the rise of the far right in Sweden keeps plenty of plates spinning. There’s Elin’s growing paranoia as she finds herself at the centre of a power struggle; the kidnapping of a wealthy businesswoman; the speedy radicalisation of Sofia; various romantic subplots, and poor Simon – the most powerless character in the piece, but seemingly the only one possessed of a moral compass – trying and failing to do the right thing. Bleakly compelling. Phil HarrisonJack Irish: Blind Faith10pm, FoxThe Wayne Dilthey missing-person case has turned personal and escalated rapidly and alarmingly, leaving Jack in a real corner. With no car, no cash and his cop frenemy Tregear under investigation, it’s not looking good for Melbourne’s most put-upon gumshoe. Even worse, his local boozer the Prince of Prussia is inexpertly trialling a Chinese fusion tapas menu. As the shabby but soulful Jack, Guy Pearce is terrific, a real Bogart among the bogans. Graeme VirtueFILMSSouthpaw (Antoine Fuqua, 2015), 4.05pm, 8pm, Sky Movies PremiereIf making a powerful boxing movie was all about physique, then the story of Jake Gyllenhaal’s slab-chested, troubled light-heavyweight Billy Hope would be a surefire winner, but sadly the screenplay is a musclebound thing, too. Mighty Gyllenhaal mumbles manfully in the Rocky/Raging Bull style as a confrontation in a hotel lobby dumps untold misery on him, his loving wife (Rachel McAdams) and daughter (Oona Laurence). Only stunning violence in the ring can redeem Billy. Forest Whitaker, as his veteran trainer, adds world-weary humanity. Paul Howlett13 Assassins (Takashi Miike, 2010), 1.05am, Channel 4Takashi Miike, creator of queasily gripping sado-thrillers such as Audition and Ichi the Killer, proves to be a master of the more traditional samurai movie here. It’s set in 1840s Japan, where a band of heroic warriors assembled by the charismatic Kōji Yakusho are dispatched to kill a tyrannical lord (Gorô Inagaki) and his 200 soldiers: the climactic hour-long running battle is a bloody chunk of action movie worthy of Kurosawa himself. Paul HowlettTV SPORTSnooker: The World Championship, 10am, BBC2The second round continues.Rugby League: St Helens v Leeds Rhinos, 7.30pm, Sky Sports 2Langtree Park hosts the Super League clash.European Challenge Cup Rugby Union: Harlequins v Grenoble, 7.30pm, Sky Sports 3Semi-final at Twickenham Stoop.PGA Tour Golf: The Valero Texas Open, 8pm, Sky Sports 4The tournament’s second day from the TPC San Antonio.