New kicksI own, it’s fair to say, a really rather large number of running shoes. I have shoes for every mood, weather and terrain. There are comfy, long-run shoes, lightweight racing shoes, cross-country shoes, Tuesday-afternoon shoes ... well, you get the gist. But the new Asics model might have to merit the creation of a whole new category – comfy, long-run lightweights. The new DynaFlyte’s (£130) have the cushioning I’d want and expect for big miles, but are really, really light. This is apparently because the midsole has been replaced by a new material – “Flytefoam” which is much lighter than standard midsole foam. Though I’ve done five marathons in Asics “racing flats” I’ve actually found some of their more cushioned designs are just too much shoe for me, but these could definitely change my mind. Below the radar       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pearl Izumi running kit Photograph: PRThe running market is dominated by big brands. At the starting line of a race, I always look at people’s shoes (whatever it takes to distract you, right?) and play spot the brands: Adidas Boosts of various types, Asics, Nike, maybe some Brooks. It’s a shame, really, as there are plenty of brands out there making really good shoes and kit that just don’t have the clout (or maybe just the marketing budget) they deserve. Pearl Izumi are one of them. I’ve always been really, really impressed by their gear. Technically it’s superb, and extremely durable – I’ve had a pair of their shorts that must have been washed several hundred times and are still in perfect condition. Perhaps that’s their problem – haven’t they heard of built-in obsolescence? Anyway, if you want to try something different, do look into their range. Designs tend to be neutral – comfort and performance over jazzy, fashion-led designs. These are my current favourite shorts (£34.99) and the Road NA v2 road shoes are also really impressive. It’s amazing that you can call £79.99 for a pair of shoes a bargain, but these days that’s definitely the case. The company is probably better known for its cycling kit, but I do really recommend trying out the running gear. I think for the money you pay, you are getting really high-end kit. Bargain alertIf value for money is what you look for in your running fear, then an important date for your diary: 4 August. That’s when Lidl’s latest running gear hits their stores. With women’s vest tops from £2.99, men’s T-shirts £3.99, shorts and leggings £4.99 – and even a heart-rate monitor watch for £12.99 – it’s definitely bargain-central. Your questionsI’m looking for a birthday present for my husband – he thinks he would like a gadget to track his runs, to sync up to Runkeeper and track his heart rate etc. What’s good these days? He has never used anything beyond a smartphone on his runs and would like something a bit more sophisticated. Can it be something that I can borrow and occasionally use too?Every month seems to see new running gadgets and GPS watches are no exception. People speak highly, in particular, of the Fitbit Surge (£199) though I can’t speak from first-hand experience. To be honest, despite all the new brands and the gimmicks on the market, I remain loyal to my first love, Garmin. If you want reliable GPS, good battery life, with an HRM, then you really can’t beat them. The entry-level model is the Forerunner 15 (£99) and has everything you want: GPS, heart rate tracking (when paired with a wearable chest strap) and you can upload everything to Garmin Connect, which in turn can then sync up with your other apps such as Strava and Runkeeper. The latter can be done automatically, so you don’t have to manually enter anything. And of course you can use it yourself. It gets slightly more complicated if you then want to track your own runs on a different account to your husband’s, but it can be done. Then there are ever more feature-laden models in the Forerunner range. If, though, you think he’d prefer something that looks more “watch” than “sports watch” then check out the Vivoactive. It actually reads HR from the wrist, has multi-sport modes, and a host of other more “lifestyle” features. It also has Bluetooth, which means it will sync everything automatically as soon as it’s within range of the paired smartphone. For more exhaustive reviews of every GPS running watch ever, though, you need DC Rainmaker’s jaw-droppingly detailed reviews.I need a bag to run with. Nothing too big nothing too small. One I can pop my keys, phone and a few other essentials as I leave the office and run home. – CamillaYou sound more organised than me, Camilla. I always end up having to take home far more than I’d really like to. However, if it really is just keys, phone and small items, then a bag I’ve recently tried might work for you. Workplay were new to me, and I’ve generally been sceptical about waist bags, as I assume they will all bounce around too much and become quickly irritating. But the Fleetfoot 3 really doesn’t move an inch. It’s fully adjustable to your waist size, fits a surprising amount in and remains really comfortable even when stuffed with essentials, gels, even a small waterproof jacket. If, though, you do need a bit more space – perhaps a spare change of clothes if you are running to work – then for rucksacks I would recommend a couple of bags I’ve tried recently, and one I’ve had for years. I would also really recommend that you look into female-specific ones. Not, I hasten to add, because they come in ghastly pink (ugh) but because women tend to have narrower shoulders and a different waist shape/size which means unisex bags just don’t always work for them. I’ve shredded skin off my collarbones and waist using bags that didn’t fit right. It’s a bit like running shoes – it doesn’t mean they are necessarily bad quality if they give you blisters, just not right for you. Like running shoes, it’s also worth spending a bit more if you find the right model. The Osprey Tempest-9 (£70) is brilliantly robust, adjustable and stays absolutely still while you move. Mine has done what most be hundreds and hundreds of miles now and still looks pretty new. My new favourite, though, is Lululemon’s Run All Day backpack (£108). Not cheap but extremely light and comfortable, full of features, hidden pockets, and a range of patterns and designs that all look like a bag you’d actually carry around rather than something you’d go camping with. More questions answered next time, please do send yours to kate.carter@guardian.co.uk or @katehelencarter 