Books to the ceiling, Books to the sky,My pile of books is a mile high.How I love them! How I need them!I'll have a long beard by the time I read them. ~ Arnold Lobel [1933-1987] author of many popular children's books. Compiled by Ian "Birdbooker" Paulsen, the Birdbooker Report is a weekly report listing the wide variety of nature, natural history, ecology, animal behaviour, science and history books that have been newly released or republished in North America and in the UK. The books listed here were received by Ian during the previous week, courtesy of various publishing houses.  Featured Title: Naples, Virginia L., Larry D. Martin, and John P. Babiarz (editors). The Other Saber-Tooths: Scimitar-tooth Cats of the Western Hemisphere. 2011. Johns Hopkins University Press. Hardbound: 236 pages. Price: $110.00 U.S. [Amazon UK; Amazon US]. SUMMARY: Like the better-known Smilodon, or saber-tooth cat, the scimitar-tooth cats of the New World were fierce predators that killed and consumed the largest of North America's species. This volume synthesizes all currently known information about the scimitar-tooths. Scimitar-tooth cats had serrated teeth that were shorter and stouter than those of Smilodon. Using a mix of new research and previously published accounts, the contributors examine all aspects of the natural history of these extinct cats. They reconstruct what scimitar-tooth cats might have looked like, discuss how they captured and killed prey, and describe their worldwide distribution and how they interacted with other, non-prey animals. Highly detailed descriptions reveal the biology of these cats, provide bone-by-bone comparisons of them to Smilodon and other cat-like carnivores, explain how they originated, and set them in an evolutionary context. Richly illustrated and featuring the latest information on scimitar-tooth cats of the New World, The Other Saber-tooths is an engaging and comprehensive collection of information about these fascinating felines that will appeal to paleontologists and anyone else interested in the prehistoric world.IAN'S RECOMMENDATION: A must have for those with a semi-technical or technical interest in paleofelids! New and Recent Titles: Nikiforuk, Andrew. Empire of the Beetle: How Human Folly and a Tiny Bug Are Killing North America's Great Forests. 2011. Greystone Books. Paperback: 232 pages. Price: $17.95 U.S. [Amazon UK; Amazon US]. SUMMARY: Exposing some startling connections between beetles and humans, one of North America's foremost environmental writers investigates the continent's massive forest die-off Beginning in the late 1980s, a series of improbable bark beetle outbreaks unsettled iconic forests and communities across western North America. An insect the size of a rice kernel eventually killed more than 30 billion pine and spruce trees from Alaska to New Mexico. Often appearing in masses larger than schools of killer whales, the beetles engineered one of the world's greatest forest die-offs since the deforestation of Europe by peasants between the eleventh and thirteenth centuries. The beetle didn't act alone. Misguided science, out-of-control logging, bad public policy, and a hundred years of fire suppression created a volatile geography that released the world's oldest forest manager from all natural constraints. Like most human empires, the beetles exploded wildly and then crashed, leaving in their wake grieving landowners, humbled scientists, hungry animals, and altered watersheds. Although climate change triggered this complex event, human arrogance assuredly set the table. With little warning, an ancient insect pointedly exposed the frailty of seemingly stable manmade landscapes. And despite the billions of public dollars spent on control efforts, the beetles burn away like a fire that can't be put out. Drawing on first-hand accounts from entomologists, botanists, foresters, and rural residents, award-winning journalist Andrew Nikiforuk investigates this unprecedented beetle plague, its startling implications, and the lessons it holds.IAN'S RECOMMENDATION: An interesting read on an often overlooked subject.  Meloy, Colin. Wildwood: The Wildwood Chronicles, Book 1. 2011. Harper Collins. Hardbound: 541 pages. Price: $17.99 U.S. [Amazon UK; Amazon US]. SUMMARY: Prue McKeel's life is ordinary. At least until her baby brother is abducted by a murder of crows. And then things get really weird. You see, on every map of Portland, Oregon, there is a big splotch of green on the edge of the city labeled "I.W." This stands for "Impassable Wilderness." No one's ever gone in -- or at least returned to tell of it. And this is where the crows take her brother. So begins an adventure that will take Prue and her friend Curtis deep into the Impassable Wilderness. There they uncover a secret world in the midst of violent upheaval, a world full of warring creatures, peaceable mystics, and powerful figures with the darkest intentions. And what begins as a rescue mission becomes something much bigger as the two friends find themselves entwined in a struggle for the very freedom of this wilderness. A wilderness the locals call Wildwood. Wildwood is a spellbinding tale full of wonder, danger, and magic that juxtaposes the thrill of a secret world and modern city life. Original and fresh yet steeped in classic fantasy, this is a novel that could have only come from the imagination of Colin Meloy, celebrated for his inventive and fantastic storytelling as the lead singer of the Decemberists. With dozens of intricate and beautiful illustrations by award-winning artist Carson Ellis, Wildwood is truly a new classic for the twenty-first century.IAN'S RECOMMENDATION: Think of this book as a hybrid between The Chronicles of Narnia and Grimm's Fairy Tales with environmental themes. For ages 9 and up, although younger children might have trouble with some of the larger words used in the text. The artwork by Carson Ellis highlight this book! The following titles were published by Harbour Publishing of Madeira Park, British Columbia, Canada:  De Maddalena, Alessandro et al. Sharks of the Pacific Northwest: including Oregon, Washington, British Columbia and Alaska. 2007. Paperback: 144 pages. Price: $21.95 U.S [Amazon UK; Amazon US]. SUMMARY: Those who think of sharks as something only found in tropical waters will be surprised to learn that there are 18 species of sharks in the cool waters of the Pacific Northwest, from the 27-inch brown catshark to the 39-foot basking shark. Sharks of the Pacific Northwest provides for the identification of these species, with spectacular photographs and accurate paintings and drawings, plus summaries of the sharks' classification, morphology, distribution, habitat, diet, reproduction and behaviour. It also includes a concise general account of shark evolution, anatomy and physiology, as well as discussion of attacks on humans and details of shark fisheries. It is primarily aimed at a broad, non-technical readership, but its up-to-date and detailed contents make it a useful tool for professional biologists and zoologists.  Druehl, Louis. Pacific Seaweeds: A Guide to Common Seaweeds of the West Coast. 2001. Paperback: 190 pages. Price: $24.95 U.S. [Amazon UK; Amazon US]. SUMMARY: What is rich with vitamins, minerals, carbohydrates and proteins, is used to develop everything from cosmetics to pesticides and can be found on any beach in the Pacific Northwest? The answer, many will be astonished to discover, is seaweed. An important food source in Asia for centuries, seaweed is increasingly used in the West for industrial and scientific chemicals, plant fertilizers and livestock feed supplements. Scientists are also just beginning to explore the medicinal value of seaweeds; the powerful nutrients in these amazing plants have been used to treat hypertension (high blood pressure), some cancers and strokes. With line drawings and vivid colour photographs, this easy-to-use book thoroughly documents every aspect of seaweed life, from species identification and seaweed biology to the essential -- and often surprising -- roles seaweed plays in the marine ecosystem and our everyday lives. Clear and informative, and packed with comprehensive scientific information, interesting facts, further readings and even an assortment of tasty seaweed recipes, this unique and highly readable guidebook will appeal to marine biologists, amateur beachcombers and everyone in between.  Harbo, Rick M. Shells and Shellfish of the Pacific Northwest: A Field Guide. 1997. Price: $25.95 U.S. [Amazon UK; Amazon US]. SUMMARY: Shells and Shellfish of the Pacific Northwest is the indispensable guide for beachcombers, seashell collectors, divers or anyone who wants to know more about the shells and shellfish found along the saltwater beaches and intertidal areas of the Pacific Northwest. Everyone from weekend adventurers to serious collectors will love this book!  This comprehensive field guide introduces more than 250 species of mollusks -- clams, oysters, scallops, chitons and more -- whose range extends from Alaska to B.C. to Washington, Oregon and California. Rick Harbo has included detailed descriptions and colour photos of familiar species like the mussel as well as more obscure ones like the checkered hairysnail and the gutless awning clam. Shells and Shellfish of the Pacific Northwest is also packed with information on places to find shells, the importance of shells in Native art and culture, and guidelines on edibility and conservation. A special full-colour section on identifying clams by their siphons or "shows" is a first for shell guidebooks. Discover the rich, varied marine life of the Pacific Northwest with this fascinating, easy-to-follow book. Don't go to the beach without it!  IAN'S RECOMMENDATION: Of these three books, I like theShells and Shellfish title the best! I also recommend these two titles published by the same company:Coastal Fishes of the Pacific Northwest [Amazon UK;Amazon US] andMarine Life of the Pacific Northwest: A Photographic Encyclopedia of Invertebrates, Seaweeds and Selected Fishes [Amazon UK;Amazon US].. Ian "Birdbooker" Paulsen is an avid and well-known book collector, especially to the publishing world. Mr Paulsen collects newly-published books about science, nature, history, animals and birds, and he also collects children's books on these topics. Mr Paulsen writes brief synopses about these books on his website, The Birdbooker Report. . GrrlScientist is a participant in the Amazon Europe S.à r.l. Associates Programme, an affiliate programme designed to provide small fees to sites that link to and advertise products sold by Amazon.co.uk & Javari.co.uk