By some projections, India’s financial capital, Mumbai, will experience “unprecedented heat” within the next two decades. Last June, the IPCC Fifth Assessment report warned of larger “near-term increases in seasonal mean and annual mean temperatures” in the region. That spells longer, more frequent bouts of extreme heat, elevated minimum temperatures, and warmer winters. Last month, meanwhile, the journal Nature published a meta-analysis using 39 climate models to predict “dates of departures” when local temperatures would exceed historical extremes recorded over the previous 150 years. They figured Mumbai’s date with the inferno could come as early as 2034 if there was no change in global carbon output.Though all of us are all sensitive to heat, and quick to react when it climbs above our comfort levels, our knowledge of how it might affect our health doesn’t really go beyond sunstrokes and fainting spells. A 2008 paper by medical geographer Rais Akhtar and environmental epidemiologist Sari Kovats spells out the dubious gifts that climate-change exacerbated heat is likely to bring Asian cities. This includes an uptick in deaths from cardio-respiratory disease, heat-related illness and death, increased rates of potential transmission of vector-borne diseases like dengue and malaria, and a shrinking in the quantity and quality of available water, further amplifying the burden of disease. Researchers have also found that climate change-enhanced heat and humidity are conducive to the spread of falciparum malaria, the disease’s deadliest strain.No one is likely to suffer the ill effects of this heat more than the 7.25 million slum-dwellers who’ve made Mumbai their home, and who comprise well over half the city’s population. “Slum-dwellers face a double burden: they face the crisis, and if they talk about it, they face evictions,” said Sheela Patel, a social worker who has helped the city’s shack and slum dwellers access suitable housing and infrastructure for two decades. Akhtar notes that slums, due to density, lack of vegetation and materials used in construction, tend to be heat traps “exacerbated by the proximity of city structures, vehicle exhaust emissions, and industrial activity”.Slum dwellers are more vulnerable to the ravages of extreme heat for numerous reasons.“They have a higher exposure to heat since a very high number of them work outside, they have few adaptive measures since they live without air-conditioning in crowded homes frequently made of heat-absorbent materials, and they have no access to clean or even enough drinking water,” says Anjali Jaiswal, an environmental lawyer with the Natural Resources Defense Council who co-authored the only existing India-specific study on the vulnerability of informal settlements to extreme heat, following the heat wave that hit Ahmedabad in May 2010. According to a study Jaiswal co-authored this year, the heat wave, which saw temperatures hit 46.8 degrees, claimed an excess of 1,344 all-cause deaths – an estimated 43.1% spike compared to the same time of year in 2009 and 2011.This tragedy does have a happier postscript. In its wake, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, with the help of organisations including the NRDC and the Indian Institute of Public Health, devised a Heat Action Plan that was launched earlier this year. “Ahmedabad is the only city with an early warning system for heat in South Asia because they saw infants and babies die, and then put the dots together during a crisis,” says Jaiswal. “Temperatures in Mumbai are already high, so we think an early warning system would benefit many, and save lives. But when we spoke with them about it [in 2011] we didn’t see much interest. It’s partly a question of political will.” Sheela Patel says, “We talk about water conservation in the summer, not before the rains, we talk about mosquitoes when 400 people died of dengue. How about a response rather than a crisis? That’s the real headline.”Mumbai will likely flood again. What’s being done?