Why is taking care of children worthwhile? It’s hard work, badly paid if paid at all, and full of uncertainty, guilt and heavy lifting. And yet, at least to most of us, it seems like an absolutely fundamental, profoundly valuable project. If you asked most parents about their deepest moral commitments, and most agonising moral dilemmas, about what gives their lives meaning, they would talk about their children. But caring for a child is very different from any other human relationship, and the standard ways of thinking about morality and meaning don’t apply very well to being a parent.Caring for children is deeply paradoxical. There’s a profound tension between dependence and independence. Parents and other caregivers must take complete responsibility for that most utterly dependent of creatures, the human baby. But they must also transform that utterly dependent creature into a completely independent and autonomous adult. We start out feeding and changing and physically holding our children most of the day, and doing all this with surprising satisfaction and even happiness. We end up, if we’re lucky, with the occasional affectionate text message from a distant city. A marriage or friendship that was like that would be peculiar, if not downright pathological.Our children not only are autonomous and independent from us, they are also part of a new generation that is autonomous and independent from the previous one. Infancy and intimacy go together – we hold our babies close, literally and metaphorically. Our adult children are and should be foreigners: inhabitants of the future. We feel the welfare of our children is more important than any­thing else, even that of other children or our happiness A second tension comes from the specificity of our love for children. I care about my children in a special way. And this specific commitment isn’t just a matter of genetic affinity. Almost anyone who cares for a child will come to love just that specific, special miracle. We feel that the welfare of the children we care for is more important than just about anything else, even the welfare of other children or our own happiness. We can be – we even should be – ruthless about advancing it.These characteristics of being a parent don’t fit well into traditional philosophical discussions of morality. Utilitarians, for example, think we should make moral decisions by calculating what will lead to “the greatest good for the greatest number”. A philosophical theory associated with Kant, deontology, claims that there are absolute and universal moral principles we should all follow.But neither of these approaches captures the particular morality of caring for children. The traditional accounts assume that moral agents are independent and autonomous decision-making creatures trying to find a way to live with each other. But the morality of being a parent is about taking a creature who isn’t autonomous and can’t make his own decisions, and turning him or her into one who can.They also don’t capture the specificity of our feelings about children. The classical theories turn on the idea that moral and political principles should be universal. Fairness, equality, justice – these ideas are supposed to apply to everybody. The very idea of a law, for example, is that some principle applies equally to all. But I care about and am responsible for my own specific children, far more than children in general. And so I should be. People can care deeply for their own children, but be relatively indifferent to children in general Think only of the difficult decision many of us make about whether to send our children to state schools or private ones. The utilitarian principle of the greatest good for the greatest number should make you choose state schools. But a genuinely moral impulse to do the best for your particular children might lead you to private ones instead.The Kantian picture doesn’t really apply either. Caring for children is a profound good, but it isn’t and shouldn’t be a universal imperative. People can care deeply for their own children, but be relatively indifferent to children in general. And, of course, many people, by choice or circumstance, don’t take care of children at all.Perhaps the most prevalent, if often implicit, contemporary picture of the value of children is a variant of utilitarianism. The view is that caring for children is valuable because it allows you to do something called “parenting”. “Parenting” involves acquiring a particular kind of expertise that will let you shape children into adults with particular features – smart or successful or happy. You can measure the value of the care you provide by the quality of the adults you create.The Gardener and the Carpenter by Alison Gopnik review – modern parenting is all wrong But that picture is also deeply at odds with the nature of caring for children. Your goal as a parent is not to determine how that helpless baby will turn out. It’s to turn him or her into an autonomous being who, for good or ill, will be able to shape his or her own life, take his or her own risks, become a unique new person constructing a unique new life.The “parenting” picture also doesn’t fit with the specificity of our feeling for children. If the aim were to create the best adults, you’d think that you would seek out the children who were most likely to succeed and put all your energy into shaping them. But, of course, we feel an unconditional commitment to just this one particular child, who happens to be ours, almost no matter what the child is like.Another, less dominant philosophical tradition – a version of what Isaiah Berlin called “value pluralism” – may be the best way to think about caring for children. We have a multiplicity of diverse ethical values and those values are often simply incompatible. There is no way to measure or weigh them against each other, no single value that trumps the others. They can’t be measured against each other in a way that reveals the single best thing to do. And yet often, in real life, we have to choose between them.Berlin thought this made human life inescapably tragic, and he was right. But it is also what makes it rich and deep. Caring for children fits Berlin’s picture better than utilitarianism or deontology, and the choices we all have to make don’t have any simple resolution.In fact, being a parent is valuable precisely because it is so unlike goal-directed productive work. Caring for a child involves a deep recognition of the individuality and autonomy, the irreducible complexity and value of another unique, irreplaceable human being. That makes it worthwhile all by itself.• The Gardener and the Carpenter by Alison Gopnik is published by Bodley Head. To order a copy for £15.57 (RRP £18.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.