TV lovers may envy the lifestyle of a television executive – the massive salary, BUPA healthcare and fancy travel to flash locations. But now, any viewer can simulate the best part of a top telly job: watching a bunch of pilots and deciding which should fly.Next week, BBC2 screens We the Jury (Monday) and Motherland (Tuesday), the final two in a run of five potential new comedies shown as part of the BBC’s Sitcom Season to mark 60 years of the form. (Our Ex-Wife, The Coopers vs The Rest and Home from Home were shown earlier this week.) This test-run of funnies coincides with Amazon Prime’s eighth season of streamed pilots, this time consisting of Jean-Claude Van Johnson, I Love Dick and The Tick.How to save Jean-Claude Van Damme's career? Recruit him as a spy Amazon asks viewers to complete a survey to calculate whether the concepts are commercially viable. The BBC’s consultation with consumers is less formal, but viewing figures and social media response help to decide whether anything in the New to Two strand merits six slots on the network. This current passion for trial episodes is a response to economic and cultural trends. Both Amazon and the BBC, due to increasing scrutiny over value for money, have become increasingly conscious of the rate at which cash is wasted by shows that fail to attract an audience. The rise of democratic interactivity also allows TV fans to influence future schedules. Pilot seasons are a sort of talent show – Britain’s Got Sitcom, The Prime-Time Factor. Yet the idea of the pilot season has actually been around almost as long as TV has been on air. Four of the comedy classics that BBC1 and BBC4 have revived or remade in their Sitcom Season – Are You Being Served?, Porridge, Steptoe & Son and Till Death Us Do Part – were first shown as speculative episodes (though the jail comedy was originally called Prisoner and Escort, and the rag-and-bone show The Offer). A number of other landmark laugh-shows, including Open All Hours and The Liver Birds, also came out of formats in which series auditioned for broadcast. The previous peak for this process was the 1960s and 70s, when, as now, the BBC was under frequent pressure to justify its statutory income. However, the decision also reflected the virtuosity of certain talents. The writers Ray Galton and Alan Simpson had so many ideas for scripts that some early series of Comedy Playhouse – the BBC anthologies of comedy pilots that have run intermittently since 1961 – consisted entirely of their work. Steptoe & Son was just one of the runners to come out of the pack.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The cult of Kevin Bacon … I Love Dick. Photograph: Patrick Wymore Both the BBC’s Our Ex-Wife, about the nuclear aftermath of a divorce, and Amazon’s Jean-Claude Van Johnson – in which Jean-Claude Van Damme plays a spoof version of his own celebrity existence – are smart, dark and funny, with terrific scenes and lines: an excruciating family lunch party in the former, JCVD being mistaken for Nicolas Cage by a waiter in the latter. Yet they feel more suitable to a one-off movie than a show that could run for several seasons. Amazon’s I Love Dick, based on the cult novel by Chris Kraus about married academics who become obsessed with the same man and starring Kevin Bacon and Kathryn Hahn, also seemed more suited to 90 consecutive minutes of screen-time than multiple half-hours. More worryingly, the central set-up in We the Jury – a lineup of oddballs serving at a murder trial – felt exhausted even before the end of its show-off show. The writer, James Acaster, is a stand-out standup, and there’s a great running gag about the British tradition of courtroom artists. But a sitcom has to be built for repetition, and it’s hard to imagine even five more places Acaster could take this idea. In contrast, The Coopers vs the Rest, written by Andy Wolton, follows shows like My Family in understanding that the dynamic of a family, which naturally contains both duplication and development, is the reason the domestic sitcom dominates. Wolton’s multi-racial, social-issues spin seems the likeliest commission from New on Two.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A lineup of oddballs … We the Jury. Photograph: Oli Upton/BBC/Big Talk Productions Ltd If I were in charge, there would also be at least one series of Motherland, a show about working mothers and house husbands which stars Diane Morgan and Anna Maxwell Martin and has a creative team including the great Graham Linehan (Father Ted, The IT Crowd). The single funniest scene in the whole BBC2 test quintet is one in which Anna Maxwell Martin finds herself having to improvise a parenting crisis after accidentally ending up in an emergency meeting with her children’s headmistress.  The Amazon taster seasons have a strong record of finding hits – including Transparent and The Man in The High Castle – although the premises of those are so strong that an old-fashioned dictatorial commissioner would probably have green-lit them anyway. As I Love Dick and Jean Claude Van Johnson both have the feel of short-form stories, the best bet in the latest trio out to tender would be The Tick, in which a retired superhero is lured back to the job.But of course, what is now automatically called a pilot might once have been seen as a standalone or a special – with no need for a series to be built around it. Which reveals the one big flaw in this new enthusiasm for letting viewers choose what they want to watch: some ideas are just better as a one-off.