Thousands of people gathered to watch fireworks and a spectacular opening installation to launch Hull’s year as the UK’s City of Culture on Sunday.Sean McAllister, a documentary filmmaker from Hull, said the Made In Hull event – a city-wide artistic installation around major landmarks – would show people that the city had hidden culture. The Guardian view on Hull, city of culture: arts for all? | Editorial A huge audience packed in to Queen Victoria Square to watch as stories of the city and its people over the last 70 years were projected on to nearby buildings. McAllister said: “We’re finally going to share our secret. If you’re from Hull, we always knew we had culture, it’s just the world didn’t know, so the secret’s out. Finally we’ve had to let them in. In a way we’ve kind of had these doors up to keep everybody out of our culture.“It’s just for us, we’ve had it as a subculture but, damn it, we’ve finally had to open the door to the international world and let them in. They can come and see what we’ve been enjoying.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Visions of the city’s past were projected onto buildings for the first Made In Hull event. Photograph: Nigel Roddis/Getty Images for Hull Uk City Of From the devastating bombing during the second world war, to the disappearance of its fishing fleet in the 1970s due to the cod wars, to the decimation of its shipping industry, Hull has struggled during the last seven decades. Hull city council leader Stephen Brady called it “a city that had lost its confidence”.But he believes Hull’s tenure as UK City of Culture 2017 will breathe new life into the city. Hull is the second city to be given this honour, following Derry-Londonderry four years ago. It was selected in 2013 from a shortlist which included Dundee, Leicester and Swansea Bay.More than £30m is being spent on the year’s events and £25m has been invested in revamping the city centre and refurbishing the Ferens Art Gallery and the city’s main theatre.This, Brady says, is an attempt for the city to entice new businesses and employers who will bring their staff with them and create more jobs. The city recently secured a £310m commitment by the German-owned firm Siemens to build new offshore wind turbines in the city, creating up to 1,000 jobs.Sean McAllister, curator of Made in Hull: ‘We’re showcasing 75 years of a proud working city’ “We did it with Siemens and we can do it again. We want people to stay here, we want there to be opportunities. This year is so important in so many ways, we need it to breathe life into Hull and keep it buoyant for future generations,” he said.Brady, a former butcher’s boy who grew up in a three-bedroomed terraced house with his eleven siblings, says it was about time to change the conversation about his home city.He said: “Hull is a city like no other, it is more like a large village. “There is also the fact that it is the end of the line in terms of road and rail networks. There is essentially nowhere beyond, which gives it a very isolated feel. We needed something to keep people here, bring in new talent, jobs, employers. Getting this City of Culture status has been as sweet as a nut.”Celebrations began in earnest on Sunday night with the official opening spectacular. Thousands of people lined the waterfront for a fireworks display to mark the beginning of Made In Hull, as its historic buildings become backdrops for projections illustrating and celebrating more than 70 years of the city’s history.The crowd in the city centre square – where one of eight art installations will be located for the next week – chanted a countdown before a projection of a propeller was beamed on to the Ferens Art Gallery building.The crowd then fell silent as they watched Hull’s history, from pilot Amy Johnson’s solo flight to Australia in 1930 to the present day, projected around the square.Other installations in the Made In Hull event include Hullywood Icons, featuring local people recreating images from classic films, and a multi-screen and sound installation recreating the club scene in 90s Yorkshire.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Last summer, hundreds of volunteers were painted blue for the Sea of Hull event. Photograph: Jon Super/AFP/Getty ImagesSunday may be the official opening but the buzz began over the summer, when US artist Spencer Tunick convinced 3,200 locals to strip naked and have themselves painted blue for his trademark photographs around Hull’s landmarks celebrating the city’s relationship with the sea. Other events planned over the year include a visit by the Turner prize, plus a one-off gig from David Bowie’s old backing band, the Spiders from Mars. Brady, 70, who has been council leader since 2011, admits that some may have trouble coming to grips with some of the “wackier” installations, but he will be gritting his teeth and trying new things.We've been to Hull and back | Maureen Lipman Hull has ambitions to become the next Liverpool, which reinvented itself following its year as European Capital of Culture in 2008. The status earned the city bumper visitor numbers and a multimillion-pound boost to its economy. The festival year saw 9.7m visitors to the city, an increase of 34%, and generated £753.8m for the economy.Brady said: “The perception of Liverpool was forever changed after its city of culture year and that’s what we are hoping for here. We don’t want to return to our sleepy old times again – we want others to say it is a wonderful place that they will return to again and again.”So far, there have been upgrades to streets and public buildings in Hull city centre. The improvements include the makeover of Humber Street in the old Fruit Market, where galleries and other artistic businesses are based. A £700,000, 350-seat outdoor theatre will also be built in the city’s disused Central Dry Dock.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Bowie’s backing group the Spiders from Mars are expected to perform in March. Photograph: Michael Ochs ArchivesOne of its most famous sons, the poet Philip Larkin, once said it is “a city that is in the world, yet sufficiently on the edge of it to have a different resonance”.Brady said: “We are not a people that shout loudly or sing our own praises like others. We quietly go about our own way. But now those barriers are coming down and we will not disappoint.”Forthcoming eventsWith a budget of £32m, there is expected to be a blizzard of arts and culture in the city over 365 days. These are some of the events taking place in the first three months. January18 Jan – The Pitmen Poets, Pocklington Arts Centre21 Jan – A Brass Band Spectacular with Brighouse & Rastrick and EYMS Band, Hull City Hall21 Jan – Let’s Rock 2017, Bridlington Spa21 Jan – 1 May – Francis Bacon: Screaming Popes, Ferens Art Gallery24-26 Jan – Anthony Minghella: A Retrospective, Middleton HallFebruary11 Feb- 22 Apr – Wildlife Photographer of the Year, Beverley Art Gallery16 Feb – Jay Rayner: The Ten (Food) Commandments, Pocklington Arts Centre21 Feb – Children’s Story Time, Sewerby Hall & Gardens22- 26 Feb – Back to Ours, a festival style series of shows and performances. They will include comedy, theatre and cabaret at various venues.24 Feb – 25 Mar – The Hypocrite, a comedy written especially for City of Culture by Hull-born playwright Richard Bean, opens for a three weeks, at Hull Truck theatre.March2 Mar –Bach, Beethoven and Virtuosity, Middleton Hall3 Mar – Jimmy Carr: The Best of, Ultimate Gold, Greatest Hits, Hull City Hall8-18 Mar – Heads Up Festival, Kardomah 94 and Hull City Centre16 Mar – Halle Orchestra, Hull City Hall17 Mar – Goldilocks and the Three Bears by Northern Ballet, Bridlington Spa17 Mar – Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders from Mars, Fruit, Humber Street21 Mar – La Boheme, Hull City Hall25 Mar – The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders from Mars: Woody Woodmansey and Tony Visconti Hull City Hall29 Mar- 11 June – Paul Smith to J K Rowling: BP Portrait Award Commissions from the National Portrait Gallery, Brynmor Jones LibraryFor a full list of upcoming events, visit the festival website.• This article was amended on 3 January 2017 to correct the end date for The Hypocrite at Hull Truck theatre.