Food associations become set in childhood and can’t be shaken off. Deep purple curves and taut glowing beauty aside, I still think aubergines look like Barbamama. The stalk reminds me of a pixie hat, at first clinging tight, then, if too many days pass, curling up at the edges. Aubergines are a yin and yang vegetable, the dark skin slicing open to reveal pale flesh, which, sweetly spongy, tastes not so much of the earth and the sun as the tang of the sea.Aubergines, although exotic, became quickly familiar in the kitchen when I was growing up, as my mum – with Jane Grigson propped open (though the need for a recipe had long passed) – made enough ratatouille to drown us. Later, she would bake aubergines until the flesh fell away from the charred skin, which she would peel and transfer to a sieve to drain, where it resembled a grubby dishcloth. The fairy godmothers – olive oil, garlic and lemon – would transform the dishcloth into a silky puree called baba ganoush, which tasted as exotic as it sounded, especially with rounds of pitta bread that puffed hot steam. Occasionally she would forget she had started baba ganoush, and the next day two kitchen cremations would be pulled from the back of the Aga.When I left home, I bought my own copy of Grigson’s vegetable book, and made my fair share of ratatouille and baba ganoush. I discovered that not only do aubergines look like dishcloths when baked, when fried they have the nature of a kitchen sponge, able to soak up whatever you provide.Aubergines, known as melanzane in Italian, arrived in Sicily from the Middle East with the Arabs. They settled quickly, becoming as much a part of Sicilian summer as the sun and bread on a Sicilian table. We arrived in Sicily last week, in a complicated town called Gela. As always, Vincenzo settled in immediately, assuming the colour, dialect and habits of his childhood. I am enthusiastic, but take longer to settle, especially in our inherited kitchen – which was built for his grandmother, who was much smaller than me. The market, which is anarchic and dispersed all over the city, is also taking a bit of getting used to.Aubergines are just coming into season. The ones familiar to me, dark with curves, known here as quelle lunghe (long ones) come in all sizes, from truncheons to three-inch teardrops. There are also Tunisian aubergines known violetta, which are oval and come in shades from deep purple to pale lavender. Both varieties are excellent. I learned most of what I know about aubergines from two Sicilian women: Carmela, my mother-in-law and the daughter of a Sicilian farmer, and Fabrizia, the daughter of an aristocrat. Both women know their aubergines and that the flesh needs heroes to transform it: heat, smoke, olive oil, salt, vinegar, garlic, spices, lemon. From Carmela, I learned to grill aubergine; searing heat transforming slices from sponge into velvet, which are then marinated with olive oil, garlic and oregano. In Sicily, the answer to the herb question is almost always: oregano. From Fabrizia, I learned to fry. “Why people have such a fear of frying I don’t know,” she said, standing over aubergine cubes jigging around a pan of extra virgin olive oil in preparation for caponata.Speaking of which, you might have expected a discussion in Sicily about aubergine to start with caponata, but I am going to leave that until I’ve really settled in.Today’s recipe is for involtini di melanzane, or aubergine rolls, although you could stop after the grilling and simply eat the velvet slices as they are. If you are happy to roll, I suggest a very Sicilian filling of breadcrumbs, red onion, tomatoes, raisins, pine nuts and herbs – a grand combination of tastes and textures, homely and exotic. Let them rest, so the bread can swell; the raisins too. The rolls can be eaten just so (my favourite), warmed under the grill, or baked in a simple tomato sauce.Choose aubergines that are heavy, with skin that’s bright, firm, glowing and offering resistance: it should bounce back when you press it. I am on the fence about salting, a habit necessary with aubergine varieties that are bitter, which is rare these days. Sometimes I do, sometimes I don’t. For this recipe, I don’t. I do press them between kitchen towel, then brush them with seasoned olive oil before grilling, rolling, resting and settling down to lunch.Aubergine rolls (involtini di melanzane) Serves 42 large auberginesExtra virgin olive oilSalt and black pepper, to tasteDried oregano, to taste50g raisins50g pine nutsA small red onion100g ripe tomatoes, chopped60g soft, white breadcrumbsA sprig of parsley or basil, finely chopped1 Trim the tops from the aubergines, then cut lengthways into 5mm-thick slices. Whisk together some extra virgin olive oil, salt, pepper and oregano, then brush this over the slices and set aside.2 Make the filling. Soak the raisins in hot water for 10 minutes to plump them, then drain. Toast the pine nuts, if desired. Peel and dice the onion, then fry until soft in a little olive oil. Add the tomatoes, breadcrumbs, raisins, pine nuts, parsley or basil, a pinch of oregano, some salt and pepper and a little olive oil. It should be moist, but not wet, so adjust as necessary and taste for seasoning.3 Get the grill pan hot, then cook the aubergine slices until golden on one side, then the other. Set aside until cool enough to handle. Pile a little filling at the bottom of each slice, then roll them up into little parcels. Leave to sit for a while so that the bread plumps up, then serve.Rachel Roddy is a food blogger based in Rome and the author of Five Quarters: Recipes and Notes from a Kitchen in Rome (Saltyard, 2015) and winner of the 2015 André Simon food book award 