Dearly beloved,We come here today to bury another bold-but-bad idea in theatrical cinematic presentation. Many artists feel compelled to push the boundaries of their chosen craft, and without them we wouldn’t have color, we wouldn’t have sound, we wouldn’t have those machines with approximately four hundred different flavors of sugary carbonated beverages that call to us from the lobbies of multiplex cinemas.But for every Mustang there’s an Edsel, and after two very costly, public humiliations, I think we can safely say that high frame rate is not the future of cinema. Maybe this eerily clear window of hyper-pixelated video reproduction works for sporting events, nature shows and, um, short films detailing human mating rituals, but it just doesn’t jibe with the language of visual storytelling. At least not yet.Billy Lynn's Long Halftime Walk review – Ang Lee war drama is a misfiring folly When I saw Peter Jackson’s Hobbit films, the first to be presented in 3D and in high frame rate (at 48fps), I bristled at the smooth, plasticized look. “It just doesn’t feel like a movie!” I barked, but, for fear of seeming like a luddite, I conceded that maybe high fantasy wasn’t the appropriate genre for this first encounter. With such resolution you could see the makeup lines on the Dwarven faces. You could see where the practical set ended and the keyed-in computer generated backgrounds began. But perhaps a tense drama with lots of action would work with this new technology? (Captain Phillips, a film released at the same time as the second Hobbit, was one I suggested could maybe pull it off.)Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk is no Captain Phillips, but its intersection of international affairs and individual psychology is at least in the same ballpark. So having seen it, I can tell you, no, 3D high frame rate doesn’t really “work” in this genre either.I recognize that I’ve been conditioned by seeing a lifetime of movies a certain way, but this isn’t an enhancement, it’s an obliteration. The 120 frames-per-second rate, the crystal clear 4K projection and the extremely fluid 3D (no pop-up book-style planes here) kneecaps the suspension of disbelief. It’s like sitting in a theater and the screen is an window onto what your mind perceives as just more of life. It is like watching a play, only with editing and a mobile POV. Close-ups of Steve Martin’s enormous sphere of a head all up in your business is fascinating, but good luck concentrating on what he’s saying when you can count his lower eyelashes.I found it impossible to get oriented, even two hours in. It’s like the first time I tried hard contact lenses. “You’ll get used to it,” the doctor said. Forget that, give me back my glasses, they worked fine.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Out of respect to Ang Lee, who has made some terrific movies in the past, I’ll rationalize that maybe this is all intentional, and that Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk is some brilliant, Brechtian exercise in distancing its audience toward some higher goal. After all, Lynn is a returning war hero with PTSD, mostly quiet and observant, and as his mind adjusts it’s as if he’s on another planet. This reading maybe makes HFR an interesting discussion point in the context of this specific film, but also a one-of-a-kind gimmick. I strongly doubt we’ll be seeing it again in a Hollywood movie any time soon.Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk has over twice the frame rate than Jackson’s Hobbit did, at 120 frames-per-second (not that I was counting), and it was altogether panned by critics following its debut at the New York Film Festival. (So it ain’t just me.) As such, Sony, the studio releasing the film, offered only traditionally projected press screenings after the festival. Only two theaters – AMC Lincoln Square in New York City and the Cinerama Dome in Los Angeles – are exhibiting the film the way Lee envisioned it.Is 4K 3D 120FPS dead? Considering we still haven’t found a uniform way to describe this thing, I say yes. But once it’s covered with earth and left to rot, it should know it has some good company. Here’s a reminder of other technological advances that croaked before it.The Rope Trick      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: British Film InstituteAlfred Hitchcock helped create what theorists call film grammar, so you can forgive him for wanting to break as many rules as possible. 1948’s Rope, a decent enough yarn starring James Stewart, concerns two young men attempting the perfect murder. Behind the camera, Hitchcock was attempting to make a movie exclusing its essential element, the cut. Nowadays, with video, many have made movies from unsimulated single takes. Back then, with the need to shoot on a soundstage and change film magazines, Rope is a complex dance of hidden reel changes and transitions. It’s crafty and somewhat interesting, but the attempt to make a movie in “real time” to better capture a higher truth ends up coming across as more distant.Cinerama   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In an effort to combat the creeping competition of television, the movies went wider. When things couldn’t get any wider, they curved. Thus begat Cinerama, an initially successful experiment in which three projectors beamed images onto a giant screen with a 146 degree arc. Two would criss-cross, one would be down the center and, if everything lined up correctly, no one in the audience would notice the seams.This was an incredibly expensive process, from production on the way down through editing and presentation. Early Cinerama films were basically showcases for the technology (This is Cinerama featured roller coasters, bull fights and the Mormon Tabernacle Choir) but two traditional movies were produced in the three-strip process, the most famous being How The West Was Won. By the 1960s some Super Panavision 70mm films, like 2001: A Space Odyssey, were shown on the curved screens care of special lenses, but by then the novelty had worn off. A few Cinerama screens are still out there, but for large format event presentations, Imax is King.The first wave of 3D   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The jury is still out on whether modern 3D is here to stay. Audiences aren’t begging for it, but they aren’t balking at the price hike either. Occasionally a movie still uses 3D in innovative ways (Doctor Strange being the best since 2011’s Hugo.) But the first wave of 3D in the early 1950s never got over the “we’re going to wave a fishhook in your face” vibe.Watching 3D movies 'helps improve brain power' The need to have two projectors running (and in sync, despite wear-and-tear) made it difficult. While this was, indeed, a technical process that involved a great deal of skill and care, audiences eventually lumped it in with schlockmeisters like William Castle buzzing seats for the Vincent Price film The Tingler. Plus the glasses were even worse back then.Senssuround   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Any film professor worth her salt will tell you that sound is just as important as picture. Mainly this is to soothe kids who are incompetent with a camera, but there is some truth to the statement. Senssuround was a failed audio process from the 1970s that amplified certain frequencies in the mix that would cause a rumble and vibration during key moments in the film.There were a few problems right off the bat. Senssuround wouldn’t work for all movies, just for ones from the affiliated studio, in this case Universal. As such, theaters would have to rent the special speakers and pay to have them installed and removed. While the tech may have worked fine, there was a different corporate problem. Universal was making junk at the time. The George Segal vehicle Rollercoaster was no match for Star Wars. Moreover, this was just as the multiplex was born, so theater-goers seeing a New Hollywood classic in Auditorium A probably wasn’t too thrilled by the constant rumbling coming out of Auditorium B’s showing of Charlton Heston in Earthquake.The Interactive Movie   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It was late 1992 and that weird quiet kid was playing chess with someone in Estonia on his computer. What was once just for Nasa was now coming to neighborhoods: push-button computers. Loews Theaters thought they saw the future, and as such commissioned I’m Your Man, a 20 minute “interactive” short film that changed depending how audiences voted.Theaters were refitted with joysticks in the armrests to the tune of $70,000, and if you paid three dollars you could stay and watch different permutations as long as you wanted. A few shorts were made (one by Back to the Future scribe Bob Gale) but by 1994 the perplexing experiment was scrapped. Even on DVD, where one could easily answer prompts with a remote control, audiences rejected getting too involved with storytelling. Sometimes we just want a space without responsibility.Drive-In MoviesThe Drive-In ain’t dead. It’s just asleep.