I don’t remember having measuring cups in my house growing up. I’m sure we did, of course – tucked away somewhere in a drawer, brought out when my mom took on a particularly challenging or new dish. But for the most part the cooking done in my home was done from memory, not from recipes.Meatballs on Sundays, made with fistfuls of parmesan cheese. Breakfast omelettes created with ingredients literally thrown into a pan. Roughly chopped parsley for spaghetti aglio e olio that went straight from the cutting board into the pan. And without fail, every meal always had enough for four more people than were actually present. There weren’t any rules or instructions, just muscle memory.So when I heard about Food52’s new app, (Not)Recipes, I understood the appeal. It’s what the company calls a “community for the food obsessed”. Imagine Instagram but all food, all the time, where the pictures of beautifully plated chicken or salads are paired with a short description of how the meal was made. Not a recipe, but an explanation. Co-founder Amanda Hesser says the point of the app is to demonstrate “how once you understand the fundamentals of a how a dish is put together, there is no need for a recipe”.“[M]ost of the cooking that happens in the world doesn’t involve recipes. Most people, when they’re cooking every day, are just cooking. They’re doing things that are familiar,” she told GrubStreet.And it’s true, most of the best cooks I know (hi, Mom) use their memories, passed-down family traditions, and instinct. Maybe that’s why it took me such a long time to learn how to cook well. I’m a person who craves structure and directions – so when my mother and aunts would try to relay a cooking tip that was more improvisational than concrete, I got frustrated. I didn’t want to mess up my meals. I wanted guidance, not a back-story about how this particular pot roast came from my grandmother’s aunt.It wasn’t until I had my daughter that I started cooking in earnest – and that was largely thanks to food blogs, where recipes and stories about food went hand in hand. Eventually my mom caught on too, and started writing down her family-famous dishes for me. She wasn’t pleased. But Hesser is right that once you have the basics down, recipes are less necessary. You start having more fun, and aren’t so afraid of messing up. Because for as many times as I’ve mucked up a meal by trying new things, I’ve also created fantastic dishes that I wouldn’t have found otherwise.As food-obsessed as our culture is, though, I’m not sure how many people are keen to go off book. After all, one of the newest and most popular developments in dinner these days are ingredient and recipe delivery services like Blue Apron and Plated. These companies are hugely successful – Blue Apron has a $2bn valuation – because they know that Americans want to cook more at home, but feel insecure about doing so. So every week, users get a box delivered with carefully packaged ingredients (the exact amount you need divided into small plastic containers) with easy-to-follow recipes, complete with pictures.This cooking-for-dummies trend may seem an abomination to hardcore chefs or traditional home cooks, but for people who are nervous to get started in the kitchen, it’s wonderful. My husband, for example, learned how to make particular go-to meals because of Blue Apron; it made him more confident and able to enjoy cooking.And I must admit, I missed my former Blue Apron subscription a bit as well when I used (Not)Recipes for a few days. The app is wonderful for inspiration, and is undeniably beautiful – but when I cook without directions it’s because I’m cooking something that I love and know well. Something that has a history with me and my family. If I’m trying something new I still crave a bit more direction, at least at first.Maybe cooking improvisationally just isn’t something you can get on a phone.Still, there is something thrilling about logging on to a community that loves food as much as I do. Even if (Not)Recipes is just good food-porn fodder, that’s a contribution in and of itself. It’s nice to have a place where you don’t have to feel embarrassed about being the person who only posts food pictures.Oh, I noticed a bit of a trend on the app over the last few days: some users, along with their beautiful, colorful pictures of meals, are posting recipes for their plates anyway – down to the teaspoon amount. Old habits.