Do you know that "Did I miss a memo?" feeling? You know, the one when someone says something so stupid or self-evidently untrue that you look up and down and round, open-mouthed, before mentally giving up and assuming that you must have missed a vital step in proceedings somehow. I get it about a thousand times a day, but never more strongly than when a new corporate green initiative is trumpeted.Sainsbury's, for example, recently announced it was reducing the size of its loo rolls' inner tubes. Less cardboard, you see, and fewer lorries transporting smaller packages means fewer carbon emissions polluting the atmosphere. Praise for the company's ecological awareness duly flooded in.I'm sorry, did I miss a memo? Specifically, did I miss a memo saying, "Great news just in, world population! We have made such brilliant, unexpected and entirely unpublicised leaps in combating global warming, reversing the rising tides and inventing perfect, totally harmless substitutes for irreplaceable resources that all we've got left to do is a quick nip-and-tuck on loo rolls. The rainforest is saved! All known species have unendangered themselves! China's agreed to knock all that economic superpower stuff on the head and go back to subsistence-level farming, while the Americans have agreed that it'll be nothing but tofu burgers from sea to shining sea from now on. And everyone has agreed to stop, literally and metaphorically, fracking about. Hurrah!"My point is: how are we – after 30 years of being warned about impending disaster – still working at a level at which an 11mm tweak to a cardboard tube can be lauded as any kind of triumph?I haven't used an aerosol of any kind since 1985 when I first heard about CFCs (remember them?) leading to holes in the ozone layer, more UV rays and polar icecaps melting and – in what I appreciated even then as a notable irony – washing away the parched corpses strewn across a baking land. It spooked me then, and now – as I watch actual film footage of actual polar bears stranded on disintegrating ice floes on warming waters, turning the nightmare into literal, visible fact – it terrifies me.Why does it not, seemingly, terrify the powers that be? While we all do our piddling, insignificant, individual bit, they do nothing. Nothing compared with what they could be doing, nothing compared with what they should be doing.We should – as we stare down the barrel of a catastrophic two-degree and more likely we-need-a-new-word-for-catastrophic four-degree rise in worldwide temperatures – be at this level: unquestioned rule by green despots charged with saving this planet from becoming a spinning ball of dust. Carbon rationing. National service for all, laying the ground- and pipework for a national water grid (through which shall be pumped H2O laced with iron, to replace the meat we can no longer have, and contraception to stop the children we can no longer support). Coupon books issued at birth for all other goods, worked out according to a highly detailed but essentially simple equation that boils down to this: finite resources left divided by number of people left over number of years remaining species would like to live.