When it comes to the internet of things (IoT), the fanfare is often around items like fridges, cars, and entire skyscrapers. But one entrepreneur is thinking small, producing highly-connected devices the size of a bean.BeanIoT is the brainchild of tech veteran Andrew Holland, who says that the size and shape of a bean (roughly 45mm by 18mm) makes it ideal as a versatile, low-profile monitoring device. Picture a bean in your pocket while you work out, assessing your progress and vital signs without a clunky wrist device. In an assisted living facility, beans could monitor whether residents had fallen or were in medical distress. Or in a grain silo, strategically scattered beans could assess temperature, moisture and CO2, to gauge potential problem areas before they develop.By late summer this year, the BeanIoT prototypes will be placed in silos around Cambridgeshire, where Holland’s company RFMOD is headquartered. Holland has chosen agriculture as the tester partly because Cambridgeshire is a large grain-producing area and his brother is a farmer, but he also believes farmers make the ideal test market.“Farmers are some of the most practical people in the world,” says Holland. “They aren’t going to invest in anything unless they can see a clear return on investment. They’ll be the perfect judges.” Depending on how the testing goes, Holland wants the product to hit the market in the next three to five years.The idea arrives as big data becomes an area of focus in agriculture. Companies like Monsanto are investing in tech that can monitor soil quality or climatic shifts with remarkable levels of precision. According to Holland, silo technology currently involves monitoring devices hanging from wires. The wireless systems that do exist are costly, running into thousands of dollars, and therefore often beyond the reach of smaller growers. The final goal is to get each BeanIoT costing less than $30 (£20). Can agriculture giant Monsanto's data biz help the environment? BeanIoT, as Holland envisions it, will be like a highly specific early warning system. Long before your grains start to mould, the network of beans (the more you have, the more specific your readings) will alert you to excess humidity. Or the CO2 monitor will pick up on insect breath before an infestation gets rampant. All this observed data can be monitored from the remote comfort of a farmer’s laptop.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The hi-tech bean is the subject of an international patent application. Photograph: RFMODOf course, retrieving the small, reusable bean devices from large grain silos poses a hurdle. Holland sees two stages where they could be removed: either at the farm, or after the grains reach a processing facility (allowing for further monitoring while in transit). But either way, how do you find them?Holland points that these are “smart” beans. “It’s not like you have tiny bits of dumb plastic just floating around in your grain,” he says. “These beans are constantly sending signals back to your computer, giving details on their exact location, or if they end up somewhere they aren’t supposed to be.”Holland will start placing BeanIoT in test silos by September. RFMOD has partnered with two local farms for the beta stage; it is also in discussions with larger agricultural companies who are keen to assess the tech. Getting the beans down to a $30 price point could be a challenge; even though the devices are small in size, they will be outfitted with monitoring tech and connectivity that is highly sophisticated. And buying one bean isn’t the goal here – for precise results, you’d need dozens of them distributed throughout your storage area. Like much new technology, the purchase cost may start high until mass production becomes viable. Once that happens, Holland has high hopes for where this can go. “Picture a smart home thermostat, where instead of one place where temperature is being monitored, you’ve got beans all over the house giving specific data,” he says. “Or you put a bean in a package, so you can monitor its progress while in transit. Imagination is your only limit, really.”