Is Liz Kendall right? In an interview at the weekend, she told the Sunday Times: “There’s a lot of old-fashioned misogyny on the hard-left; you’ve only got to look at the comments about me during the leadership campaign. I was called a bitch, a whore, a see-you-next-Tuesday, as they say on Towie. All because my political views weren’t the same as theirs.” The statement is, on one level, unarguable: she was called those things, repeatedly, often in the same tweet. But is she right to yoke the misogyny to the politics? Is there a strain of misogyny on the left that is both peculiar to it and peculiarly vicious? And if so, what is its mechanism? Is there anything particular to socialism that could fuel a scorn for women distinct from the more predictable and comprehensible sexism on the right?We can dispense immediately with the argument that these slurs were hurled at Kendall in particular, and just happened to be sexist because so many of the popular ones are. Pretty well all MPs in Kendall’s ideological and age bracket have come in for similar language, and beneath it, there is that familiar but hard to pin down insinuation that being a Blairite is one thing, but a female Blairite is particularly risible – that her wrong-headedness springs from her gender, and that women such as these corrode solidarity. It is never said so explicitly, but it is there in the ferocity and, of course, it’s pretty unmistakable given the targets. You don’t see Dan Jarvis carpet-bombed with see-you-next-Tuesdays.There are those who argue that misogyny is hardwired into both the principles and the policy objectives of the hard-left, and the evidence is there in issues such as the legalisation of sex work, a debate where the ascription of misogyny can become the live element of the debate, leapfrogging the issue itself. There are feminist arguments both for and against the legalisation of sex work, and misogynists on both sides, too. If you look at the openly stated aims of the left, you’d be searching a long time before you found open bigotry. And yet, that doesn’t mean there isn’t a problem at the cultural level.Historically, sexism wasn’t so much the dirty secret of the hard-left as of the union movement. In the 80s, it was a running joke that the reason it took many women so long to figure out that Thatcher wasn’t, in fact, furthering women’s interests was because she smashed the unions, which is exactly what a feminist would have done. Naturally, given the fact that the union movement is doing so much work fighting discrimination, this isn’t a charge you could level now, and the picture has always been mixed. Yet unionists can become utterly outraged by the mildest remark about their industrial heritage being quite patriarchal in outlook, and often privileging and valorising “male” jobs over “female” ones.As recently as five years ago, the GMB was implicated in an outrageous equal-pay failure by Birmingham city council, where women on the same pay grade as men (cleaners v bin men, for instance) were earning far less (in the starkest example, a refuse collector took home more than £50,000 in one year, while women on the same level received less than £12,000). When the female employees took the case to court and won, the GMB claimed it as their victory, since they had been representing the women: yet it was as a result of union action in the 70s and 80s that bonuses for bin men (and not for cleaners) were won in the first place.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Women celebrate their victory over Birmingham city council in an equal-pay dispute. Photograph: David Jones/PAThe indignation when anyone raises the less-than-perfectly-equal elements of unionist history is understandable, and I think gets to the heart of why the left won’t interrogate itself for sexism. Rightly, unions see themselves as having given their lives to the pursuit of fairness; if they don’t always get it 100% right, nonetheless, there are about a million better targets for a feminist’s ire. But clearly, from a feminist perspective, all misogyny must be challenged; if we waited until someone handed us a list of enemies in order of importance and then obeyed it, the women’s movement wouldn’t exist.The ugliest example of this fissure came with the Socialist Workers Party furore, in which a number of women alleged that they had been raped by a senior figure in the leadership. The party set up a kangaroo court, failed to pass on the charges to the police, and busied themselves instead asking the women about how much they drank and how many sexual partners they’d had. Again, at the time and to this day, when you raise the issue, SWP members will give you a thorough explanation of why this is less important than smashing the system, which is where violence against women, indeed all violence, comes from in the first place. No compromise is possible between these two positions: you either believe equality for women should take second place to equality generally, or you believe equality for women is indivisible from general equality. It cannot cede or defer to a battle over what is more important, because nothing is more important: they are parts of the same whole.The galling thing is that this implacability creates the silence that allows this culture to persist. A misogynistic Ukipper will come out and say that women don’t clean behind the fridge, and Suzanne Evans, or a woman like her, can fight him. But in a political culture built on equality and solidarity, the charge is too catastrophic to discuss: if you really are a misogynist, you do not belong in the struggle for justice. Your entire identity is capsized.This tendency is not so much hard-left as incredibly niche. I would wager, though I cannot prove, that misogynists on the left are far fewer than they are in almost any other political environment: the difference is that it runs directly counter to the account they give of themselves. That’s what makes it dispiriting, and that’s what it makes it stubborn.