A few months ago, I opened an email that changed my life. I vaguely remembered an urban myth about a man who throws his wedding ring into the ocean. Ten years later, he sits down to eat fish at a local restaurant, cuts open the fish and there it is. That’s how I felt when I clicked on an email from someone I didn’t know called Keith Rushton. What he said to me was this: “I’ve got your electric guitar.”Twenty years ago, I was having a clearout and, for reasons I don’t fully understand, I took it upon myself to throw away a wonderful electric guitar that my dad bought me for my 16th birthday: a handsome Japanese-made Columbus Les Paul copy – sleek, black, impossibly sexy. Why, when I’m such a hoarder of useless old stuff, did I want to throw something like that away? It was probably the hysterical disgust and fear that can overcome you when you’re confronted with mounds of old possessions and photos: the horror of being overwhelmed by the past. Anyway, I took it to the north London rubbish dump, now long since redeveloped as the site of Arsenal’s Emirates stadium, and subsequently an important part of my personal psychogeography. I was about to throw this precious object on a smelly mound of refuse in what looked like an underground carpark, when a young guy came up to me, understandably astonished.“You’re not just going to throw that away, are you?”I said that I was – and already feeling the first twinges of regret, but now, of course, unable to back down. He asked if he could have it; naturally I said yes, and we went our separate ways.In the days and years that followed, I felt a nagging, aching sorrow for what I had done, and an inability to comprehend it.All my adult life, I have lived without making music: as a writer and critic, I felt no need of it. If I’m honest, I am not really much of a consumer, either. When I was a kid, I bought vinyl and then stacks of CDs, which now lie around gathering dust. I’m not into Spotify. And yet, from the ages of 11 to about 20, I considered myself a bit of guitarist: a horribly failed classical guitarist, but a yearning wannabe rock-guitar hero – and a real lead guitarist in bands called Fire Exit Number Nine, at school, and the New Electric Sex Dwarves, at university, with a guy who is now a leading QC.My mum and dad had been very keen for me to learn the classical guitar: this was the 1970s, and figures such as Julian Bream, John Williams and Andrés Segovia were very big, and the public were becoming aware of guitar pieces such as the now-rather-cliched Guitar Concerto by Joaquín Rodrigo. I loved it. I loved the sound of the guitar: so mellow, so seductive, so gentle – and so flattering to the learner. Unlike the violin, it didn’t sound awful in the hands of a beginner. But the truth was that I couldn’t make any headway. I passed Grade 4 reasonably comfortably and Grade 5 by a whisker. But then I was encouraged to go straight to Grade 8 and I failed ignominiously. I went to pieces when I had to perform in public. So I switched to the electric guitar, strumming undemanding stuff. This was not just the era of the classical guitar; it was also the time of punk, when people who couldn’t play their instruments were allowed to be rock stars. I switched from classical discipline to the punkily Dionysian world of anything goes. And I could sort of play my instrument.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bradshaw as a teenager with his classical guitar, which he learned first before switching to electric. Photograph: Courtesy of Peter BradshawI still have my classical guitar somewhere, but I had unaccountably, crazily, thrown away my lovely electric one. Why on earth did I do that stupid thing? Was it because it was a symbol of unbecoming teenage silliness, like a pair of flared jeans? Was it because at some level, I associated it with failure? Failure to master a classical instrument? Failure to become a pop star?Periodically I remembered what I had done and suppressed a wince during the intervening 20 years. Then I got the email from Keith, a dealer and restorer of electric guitars. Incredibly, he had bought my Columbus guitar – it had evidently been bought and sold a few times since that guy took it off me – and Keith had found a name-and-address label on the back: my name, my mum and dad’s address. He took a punt on contacting me via the Guardian and offered to sell it back.It was all I could do not to burst into tears. I think I would have given Keith anything he asked for, but his price was scrupulously fair – £178. I had forgotten all about my dad’s infuriating habit of putting name-and-address stickers on everything I had, including my guitar. Did Jimi Hendrix or BB King or Jimmy Page have stickers on their guitars from their dads? No. I seethed with irritation at the time, and I now remember that Dad had put this sticker discreetly behind the neck, so I wouldn’t notice.Jimi Hendrix estate sues for return of guitar worth up to $1m How Dad would have laughed to hear about this strange intervention from fate. But I couldn’t tell him, because he had died eight years before.Keith sent me some mouthwatering photographs of the way he had been lovingly restoring the instrument and then finally couriered it over to me. I took it out of the box and had a vivid flashback to Christmas Day, 1978, when I came downstairs to find it on the sofa, and ran upstairs, leaving my slippers behind, to thank my beaming parents.Picking it up again was an extraordinary madeline: it felt so fascinatingly smooth (smaller than I remembered), potent, dense and heavy – quite unlike the carpentered, hollow lightness of the classical instrument. I held it sitting down, then instantly felt the need to stand up, taking a strap over my shoulder, withstanding the ache, because the electric guitar demands to be played in this position: it is a primal gesture, part of a dynamic, heroic, yet casual stance on stage. Only aged bluesmen can get away with playing sitting down.Everyone knows how overtly, even outrageously, sexual the guitar is – taking up the guitar was a way for virginal teenagers like me to claim the trappings of sexual success without actually, erm, ever having the nerve to talk to girls, still less try anything more. But what I had forgotten was how beautiful it is: in daylight or electric light, all its metallic planes, strings and surfaces glint and reflect like jewels.My fingers knew where to go: I couldn’t for the life of me have drawn a diagram for D major or G7, but my hands just went into it. My middle-aged, fleshy fingertips felt the exquisite cheesewire pain of holding down a chord. Like the strap-ache, the discomfort is something you get through and must not admit.BB King at 87: the last of the great bluesmen Plugging it into an amplifier was another giant step forward into the past: I got one from a music store on Denmark Street in London’s West End for £80. To hold down a two-string chord and twist it up into a keening blue note: what a glorious thrill. The shriek and clamour of that sound. I felt that delirious, unwholesome certainty that my 16-year-old self could only suspect. The electric guitar isn’t fascinating because it is like sex. Sex is fascinating because it is like the electric guitar. And it really is unique. The electric guitar has what I can only think of as an orchestral quality that the classical guitar doesn’t. Strum an electric guitar on distort and you get a wall of noise. The rhythm guitar – which I now remember was my forté – sounds like any number of musicians, a guttural, fuzzy, syrupy roar, a wall of noise, which you can summon dizzyingly with just a simple gesture. And then out of this, that extraordinary performance, the longed-for distinction, the solo, the sign of a real guitar hero – piercingly potent, deafeningly loud musical phrases, which, of course, are casually twanged out into the ether.Standing there, with my left hand gripping the neck in the third fret position – almost as if I was holding down the chord with my thumb – and my right with a 5p coin as a plectrum, I had another acid flashback. Our school sixth-form band was playing a concert, a gig at a scout hall in Radlett, Hertfordshire. With ham-fisted crudity, but enormous vehemence and great self-adoration, we concluded with our dumbed-down version of Chuck Berry’s Johnny B Goode. I chopped gamely through the rhythm part and glanced down to see something that I could hardly have hoped for in my wildest dreams. Some guy was at the front, headbanging and playing air guitar – inspired by me! I almost fainted. I didn’t feel worthy. I certainly knew how wanting my playing actually was.So, could I learn the guitar again? I didn’t get on that well with my teacher at school: learning a musical instrument one-to-one was a uniquely intimate and intimidating experience that I didn’t have in any other subject, and I reacted badly. I am currently brooding about the guitar teacher adverts I see online and pinned up at the local newsagents. I spend ages with YouTube tutorials: I am stunned at how many of these there are – and how good they are. It’s a world of smiling, happy people who want to help. What a change from the guitaring world of my teens, where the choice was between scary teachers or no teaching at all, and you had to sort of pick it up – or secretly read useful, terribly uncool books such as Bert Weedon’s Play in a Day, borrowed from the library.There is a guy who breaks down the opening riff to Johnny B Goode, playing it at half-speed, quarter-speed, idiot-glacier speed, and I am humbled to remember how I had mangled it in front of the crowd at Radlett all those years ago. In fact, I hadn’t played it at all.There is something good for the soul in learning or re-learning a musical instrument again, after all these years: a patience and humility that isn’t the same as anything in my professional life. A feeling that something new is possible. It’s between learning a language and learning how to juggle. When I was a kid, I had a pair of headphones that I also plugged into the amplifer so my mum and dad didn’t have to listen to my crashing chords. Not a bad learning tool, actually, but I now think, as a grownup, I’m allowed to practise openly, although I have resolved always to keep the volume way down.The electric guitar is not really a solo instrument; now, I guess I have to form a band. My son is learning the saxophone, and I admire the beauty and exotic intricacy of that instrument as I fetishise the guitar. Maybe I can jam with him. Or maybe there are other people of my vintage who have also had a personal epiphany like mine. Maybe we should be called the Regainers.This is a shortened version of Peter Bradshaw’s Radio 3 Essay, to be broadcast on Thursday 9 June at 22:45. There is a guitar “Jam” session tomorrow at the Hay festival, broadcast on Radio 3’s In Tune.