With Christmas just around the corner and a slew of new hardbacks out by leading authors from Ali Smith to her namesake Zadie, it’s easy to overlook the gems freshly arriving in paperback. Here’s a roundup from the books team of November’s highlights in softback.FictionMaggie O’Farrell’s This Must Be the Place looks set to get a whole new life after being shortlisted for the Costa novel of the year on Wednesday. It will come as no surprise to reviewer Hannah Beckerman, who declared it to be “a book that surely confirms her as one of the UK’s most assured, accomplished and inventive storytellers”. O’Farrell’s seventh novel, “a complex and nuanced story” that explores a marriage in decline, is her best to date, says Beckerman. Alfred Hickling was similarly complimentary, revelling in the novel’s “audacious risks” and judging O’Farrell “a deft and compelling chronicler of human relationships”. An unequivocally excellent book from a writer who is now in the running for her second Costa win.• Buy the bookIf O’Farrell is a truly well-established novelist, the young playwright Barney Norris is quite the opposite. In his debut, Five Rivers Met on a Wooded Plain, five characters whose lives are connected by a car crash are explored with empathy and compassion. Melissa Harrison’s glowing review in the Guardian underlines the “technical skill … tolerance … insight” that Norris “has in spades”.• Buy the book      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Miracle worker ... the writer Helen Simpson. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the GuardianHelen Simpson has been publishing collections of short fiction since 1990, tracking the stages of life in stories that the Guardian’s review of her latest described as “little miracles that cut straight to the heart of the matter”. This sixth collection, Cockfosters, picks up with “the women standing uncertainly on the brink of menopause” while “the men are having heart scares or moving … on to their second wife and set of children”. The review finds that it’s the “tightrope balance between our outer lives and inner expanses that continues to make her writing sing”. You can read the title story here.• Buy the bookNonfictionIris Murdoch is just one of the literary heavyweights arriving in paperback this month, with Avril Horner and Anne Rowe’s edition of her letters from 1934 to 1995, Living on Paper. For DJ Taylor, these letters show Murdoch as she was in life: “impulsive, affectionate, brainy, loyal, free-associative and, at least occasionally, horribly vulnerable”.• Buy the bookSusannah Clapp’s memoir, A Card from Angela Carter, charts her friendship with the author of The Bloody Chamber and Nights at the Circus. Reading Living on Paper, it’s difficult to shake the impression that Iris Murdoch’s literary reputation is perhaps in danger of slipping away. But, according to Jenny Turner, Carter seems to be going from strength to strength. Still popular and widely read some 25 years after her death at the age of just 51, she emerges from Clapp’s “warm and loyal” account and the accompanying copies of her original postcards as “a delightfully bawdy, big-boned magnificence of a woman”.• Buy the book      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Exceptional ... the writer and comedian Alexei Sayle. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianAnother larger-than-life figure is Alexei Sayle, whose second volume of memoir is just out. Thatcher Stole My Trousers covers the years of upheaval between 1971 and 1984. According to the reviewer Joe Moran, standup comedy is “a mix of sprawling storytelling, political polemic, public psychotherapy and cathartic laughter. And yet few standups have come close to capturing a fraction of this creative energy in a book … Alexei Sayle is an exception.”• Buy the bookAnthony Quinn’s excellent review of Lara Feigel’s The Bitter Taste of Victory explores the cultural project undertaken in the aftermath of the second world war to lift Germany out its ruins. Lee Miller and Billy Wilder, Martha Gellhorn and Evelyn Waugh were amongst those sent as cultural ambassadors to Germany to “help rehabilitate the country and its people”. The book’s “compelling … moral centrepiece” revolves around the Nuremberg trial and the shock experienced by those sent to enlighten. Quinn finds great poignancy in this account, reflected in Feigel’s observation that “victory had proved lonelier and less hopeful than war”.• Buy the bookFor Alexander Larman, writing in the Observer, Robin Lane Fox’s Augustine is “likely to become the standard work” on the saint and his confessions. Tim Whitmarsh was similarly complimentary in the Guardian: “Lane Fox richly paints the quirky, colourful, bizarre life of a provincial, middle class, Latin-speaking north African,” he says. “This is how ancient texts should be discussed: with brio, panache, erudition and intuition.”• Buy the book• To see a full list of this month’s selected paperback releases and to save up to 20% off RRP visit the Guardian Bookshop. 