Michael Nyman – Time LapseIn the thick of making the minimal-leaning, string quartet David Bowie tribute that I just put out with Jherek Bischoff, I began thinking about strings and my more classical-leaning influences and about how strings can translate melody and music. When I first found Michael Nyman as a teenager, I made it the soundtrack to my life, and it was one of those beautiful backwards discovery experiences as I let his soundtracks lead me to the films of Peter Greenaway. I would probably never have come to appreciate Greenaway’s films if I hadn’t already fallen in love with the music. This is one of my all-time favourite Nyman arrangements, from my all-time favourite Greenaway movie, A Zed and Two Noughts. I love how, like classic Nyman, it just builds and layers and builds.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Beck – Lonesome TearsBest string arrangement ever, and composed by Beck’s dad! I’ve been obsessed with his album Sea Change ever since it came out in 2002, and I always come back to it. I saw Natalie Merchant at a talk a few months ago, when I’d just given birth, and she told a story about how this was the only album that would make her daughter go to sleep in the car (I also asked her for mom advice and she said: “Don’t tour.” I think I’m going to fail.) Anyway, she was right, Beck works like magic on a baby, and this song in particular has a part at the end, which I thought was just a magic trick that Beck played on my ears, a kind of go-sonic Möbius strip, but is actually a sound called a Shepard tone. It was used by the Beatles on I Am the Walrus and in the music for Super Mario 64. So there’s that.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Henryk Górecki – I Lento – Sostenuto Tranquillo Ma CantabileThis arrangement for strings starts so slowly you can barely tell it’s there, so don’t go reaching for the volume knob. It then builds and blooms into a sorrowful kaleidoscope, not unlike Barber’s Adagio for Strings. Lose yourself.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Balanescu Quartet – Kraftwerk’s RobotsListen to how they translate Kraftwerk’s simple computer melodies into strings – it’s really genius. With music that’s already so minimal, there’s so much or so little you could do, and I have always been so into these arrangements, this one especially. You can hear the strings playing off the mechanical sound of the original, as if the natural wood of the instruments is in a dialogue with the computers.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Zoë Keating – Escape ArtistI’ve had the pleasure of watching Zoë layer her songs on the cello for an artist who was performing live – it’s like watching a religious ritual. When looping is done well, it’s as if a musician can take you by the hand, through the door and into a sonic palace they are building for you as you walk, brick by brick. Zoë does this, and it’s incredible.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Strung Out in Heaven: A Bowie String Quartet Tribute is out now 