In his article about Michael and Anne Heseltine’s estate (Thenford) in Northamptonshire (G2, 24 October), Archie Bland admits he’s much more interested in talking about politics – but on finding his hosts expect, not unnaturally, to talk about gardening (and their new book), he tells us that they have transformed a “neglected wilderness” into a great English garden. This has involved planting thousands of trees, shrubs, roses etc. We hear from Anne that “We did it bit by bit”. Bland makes one throwaway reference to Thenford’s “dozen gardeners”, but as he’s keen to get Michael’s views on Brexit, we learn nothing about these unsung heroes and heroines. As such, the article unwittingly provides a perfect illustration of the way this country continues to undervalue the expertise and creativity of skilled people.Lorna Unwin Professor emerita of vocational education, UCL Institute of Education, London • I wonder if Lord Heseltine ever, while enjoying his estate, thinks back to his time in government when he masterminded the Thames Gateway project. Here in Dartford we lost large areas of open land to development and the area is fast becoming an extension of London’s urban sprawl. He opined at the time that he wanted to see Dartford develop as another Dorking – a sick joke to go with the current talk of “garden city” developments. In my experience only money drives development. The result is to maximise profit over any other consideration and the result is writ large here.Ron KippsDartford, Kent• It was Michael Heseltine who rescued John Major from Thatcher’s monstrous (and £3.5bn costly) poll tax blunder, by replacing it with the council tax. On my 1960s estate house (four bedrooms, detached – by 10 feet, only two resident squirrels) I pay £1,540 a year as my contribution to the civilising services of Cheshire. How much does Heseltine pay on Thenford House and its large estate?Howard HiltonAudlem, Cheshire• I would have much preferred to hear more about the Heseltines’ garden than suffer the rather smug satisfaction of your writer’s admission that he knows nothing about gardening. The Heseltines were incredibly polite under the circumstances. Helen BeioleyFrance Lynch, Gloucestershire • Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com