This week I shared a platform in parliament with the Hollywood star, Idris Elba. We were there to celebrate Channel 4’s success in promoting diversity on TV. Idris was quite nervous – but then who wouldn’t be, sharing a platform with someone as charismatic as me.But seriously, he was nervous because – as he himself tweeted afterwards – he was making the most important speech of his life. And what a speech it was. Funny, self-deprecating but with a deadly serious and important message about the appalling lack of diversity on and behind our television screens. He held the audience spellbound for 30 minutes.Idris Elba’s Twitter picture from Parliament As the son of a Sierra Leonean father and a Ghanaian mother, who went from fitting tyres in Dagenham as a young boy to making films in Hollywood, there are very few who can make the case for on-screen diversity as passionately and sincerely as Idris . I share his – and your – frustration. I’ve been involved in this debate for three years now – and we are seeing change. But it is still too slow – and it needs to speed up.Idris Elba to warn MPs over lack of diversity on British television  Some people come up with some really stupid arguments about why diversity is “too difficult”. You may have heard some of them. “It makes it difficult to sell content abroad”. Really? Anyone seen the new Star Wars movie, the fastest-grossing film of all time? “I’m making a period drama”. Go to see the Donmar’s excellent Les Liaisons Dangereuses, set in the 18th century, where you will see some great acting from a diverse cast. “It’s too difficult to find the talent”. That’s because you can’t be bothered.Academy president 'disappointed' with all-white Oscar nominees  Of course the issue of diversity is not limited to the BAME community. It is also about making sure we have proper female representation, opportunities for people with disabilities, and that gay and lesbian people are not treated differently because of whom they love.  Put simply, there is no reason, no reason at all why we can’t see greater diversity on our screens. And no reason for this not to happen quickly as possible. But the decisions do not lie with the government. We can’t decide who stars in the next James Bond film, who presents the 10pm news, or who plays the lead parts in the next series of Doctor Who.Those decision must be made by broadcasters, casting directors and film-makers – the very people Idris credits with helping him get to where he is today.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Idris Elba, star of series The Wire and Luther, speaking to a group of MPs about the lack of diversity in British television.However, government does have a role to play. This government is holding broadcasters to account. And as minister for culture, I don’t intend to let them off the hook. I will continue to constantly ask them to demonstrate that real change is happening. And I will call them out if I feel they’re not doing enough.Channel 4 to launch 'year of disability' Some excellent progress has already been made. In the last two years we have started to effect real change, through direct and close engagement with the industry. The British Film Institute has been brilliant at leading the way in this. It has just launched a £1m fund to promote diversity. It’s also made clear that it won’t fund films – or other projects – unless those seeking money show a real commitment to diversity. Stuart Murphy, a director at Sky, was the first to propose bold and challenging targets, which the broadcaster has completely embraced. Others like the BBC, ITV and Channel 4 are now, rightly, following suit.The Equalities and Human Rights Commission has now published clear guidelines, which shows how much change broadcasters and filmmakers can make without falling foul of the Equalities Act. And the Creative Diversity Network, now a permanent body funded by broadcasters to push this agenda, has promised effective monitoring across all channels.So I challenge the industry to continue the good work it has already started. But, it is not the industry alone that can make a difference, we all have a part to play in the fight for equality. So let’s act now to ensure Idris’s call to think so far outside the box that we smash it, becomes a reality.