Families come in all shapes and sizes, as the photographs on this page illustrate. But, though they portray a range of disparate families, these images are not all they seem. Each one features the same woman – Dita Pepe, who is also the photographer. In one image she is a bohemian mother, in another a country farmer. Yet another appears to portray her with the latest addition to her large family and elsewhere, she’s in a wedding dress, child in arms.Dita is known as “the chameleon photographer” because she puts herself into the frame – playing with the idea of what makes us the people we are, and asking the question: If I had been born into a different family, who would I be?Unsurprisingly, her work has its origins in her own experience of family life. Dita, 43, grew up in what was then Czechoslovakia in the days of communism. This, combined with the fact that her father was a very dominant character, meant she “lived in fear and under pressure for a long time”. But what she calls the pathological relationships in her own family ultimately inspired her to explore relationships in other families. It helped her to empathise, she says, and gave her the ability to put things into context.She started to photograph families of friends and colleagues, and moved on to recruiting particular types of families: those from different ethnic backgrounds, city families and country families, wealthy families and poor families, nuclear families and extended families. “I want to show the diversity of approaches to life, to open a door to places I didn’t know existed or places I had prejudices about,” she explains.“I hope it’s a journey of understanding, of tolerance, and I want to take the audience with me.”More than anything, Dita says she is fascinated by how we are moulded by our surroundings and also by the extent to which couples shape one another in their relationship “and how we apply the whole model again on our children”.Everything, she says, is conditioned by the family we have been born into and the partners we find – but everything could so easily have been different, and in different circumstances we would have been different. “When I’m doing my photographs, I’m thinking, I could have been born into this family, or I could have fallen in love with this man,” she says.What it’s all about, in essence, is tolerance. Sometimes, she says, it’s good for all of us to consciously put our relationships and value system to one side, and to think about who we might be and what we might be without it.When she’s working towards an image, Dita – whose work has been compared to that of the American feminist photographer Cindy Sherman – spends as much time as possible with the family, absorbing their ethos and studying their modus operandi, their humour and the ways they communicate. “I really want to know how they perceive their lives and it’s inspiring to see what they like and what makes them happy,” she says. “I watch how they are with one another, how they look at each other, and then I make my picture of it all.” I visualise myself in a specific moment and it gives me a chance to see myself from a distance She is, she says, conscious that the experience of being in one of her photoshoots “could be really traumatic for a child, to have to see a strange woman dressed as Mummy standing next to Daddy”. She goes out of her way to explain the purpose of the photoshoots to the children. “I try to make it into a game of dressing up because that’s something children understand.”It has also been an odd experience for her daughters, Ida and Ela, who are 13 and nine, who were recruited into the project as babies, often posing as extras in other people’s family lineups. The trick, she says, has always been to make it feel like fun – and indeed fun is part of what it’s all about. It has always been a whole-family event for her, too – as well as her daughters, her husband, Petr Hrubeš, is also a photographer and assists in the sessions.The women whom she “replaces”, she says, tend to find it a fascinating experience. “I ask them all about themselves – what they like to wear, what they think suits them, what feels good to wear. When I try on their clothes, it’s an interesting moment for me, but also for them – it’s as though the woman is seeing herself from a distance, getting a different perspective on herself. Usually [where she’s inserting herself into the family in place of the mother], I’ll take a photo with the real mother. The situation around the photoshoot is always very natural and I’d never force anyone to take part. I want it to be a game for everyone to enjoy.”And yet, Dita admits, her work has another role – as therapy for herself. “I visualise myself in a specific moment and it gives me a chance to see myself from a distance. It has helped me to overcome my fear of approaching strangers and it has made me realise I have the ability to control situations and the people in my life. I think I’ve got more faith in myself. I’ve taken responsibility for my own life.”Most important of all, she says, is her hope that people who look at her work can identify with the families they portray, even if they are in very different circumstances and situations from their own. “Understanding otherness and seeing things in context is a way to a better life, for all of us,” she says.ditapepe.cz