The competition watchdog is to scrutinise Heineken’s planned £305m acquisition of 1,900 pubs from Punch Taverns, a deal that will make the Dutch brewer the UK’s third-largest pub group. The Competition and Markets Authority said it would assess whether the Heineken deal could reduce competition and choice for customers. If the CMA finds this to be the case, it will launch an in-depth merger investigation, which could last up to 24 weeks, unless the two firms address any competition concerns.The Scottish Licensed Trade Association, which has been critical of the planned takeover, hailed the news. Its chief executive, Paul Waterson, said: “Heineken is a global brewer, with very different priorities to their customers, who often rely on hard-earned local relationships to make their businesses work. We know from both Heineken’s words and actions that they will give preference to their own products across their estate, and this is simply not fair for brewers, publicans or consumers. We look forward to receiving the findings of the investigation.”Heineken entered the UK pub market in 2008 when it took over brewing company Scottish and Newcastle. It is the world’s second biggest brewer behind the Budweiser maker Anheuser-Busch InBev, which took over SABMiller in a £79bn deal last year. Heineken’s beer and cider brands include Amstel, Foster’s, Birra Moretti, Kronenbourg 1664, Sagres, Bulmers and Strongbow.Heineken runs 1,049 pubs in the UK in its Star Bars and Pubs estate. If the Punch deal goes through, Heineken will be Britain’s third largest pub group, after Greene King and Enterprise Inns.The Dutch company said the CMA’s announcement was an “important and fully expected stage” in the acquisition process and that the company would fully cooperate with the watchdog. Punch said it “continues to expect the transaction to complete as anticipated”.Heineken faces a backlash from UK pub landlords, who fear they may be forced to stock their pubs with Heineken-owned brands, reducing choice for customers. Heineken normally aims to ensure that its own products make up 85% of what is sold in its pubs, although it has not said whether this would apply to Punch pubs.Heineken has dismissed publicans’ fears, saying they will still have a say over which beers they sell, and pledged to work with independent brewers. Its spokesperson said: “We want to work constructively with licensees to grow our businesses together, and we have no intention of imposing blanket conditions on them which are detrimental to that shared aim. We will start with what is right for each of the pubs joining us and we will work together with licensees to ensure they have the right drinks on offer to suit the specific needs of each pub.”Heineken’s UK managing director has described the deal as a “huge vote of confidence in the ‘Great British pub’”.The brewer’s chief executive, Jean-François van Boxmeer, reiterated those comments on Wednesday when he announced a near-10% rise in operating profits to €3.54bn (£3bn), with beer sales up 3%. However, pretax profit fell 15% to €2.4bn due to currency movements and one-off costs.The Dutch brewer and investment company Patron Capital won a battle to take over Punch in December. Punch operates more than 3,000 pubs across the UK. Heineken plans to buy 1,900; Patron will take the rest. 