Paris fashion week has long been code for chic – the rarefied world of Avenue Montaigne, bird-like couture clients in Chanel suits and gamines in ballet flats. But, on the eve of the spring/summer 2017 shows, there’s a new mood blowing into the city of Chanel, Christian Dior and Louis Vuitton. Chic is out, cool is in. London fashion week was once the home of new talent and cutting-edge trends, but now Paris is moving in for this territory.This season there will be several debuts of designers at established brands – beginning with Anthony Vaccarello at Saint Laurent on Tuesday evening. Vaccarello, a 33-year-old Belgian-Italian, takes over from Hedi Slimane. His aesthetic, seen at both his own brand and work with Versus, is brazenly sexy, and his show promises to be more in-your-face than Slimane’s indie-influenced work. In a statement announcing his appointment in April, Francesca Bellettini, president and CEO of Saint Laurent, commented that Vaccarello “impeccably balances elements of provocative femininity and sharp masculinity in his silhouettes”. His first work for the brand, an advertising campaign released in July, kept the fashion crowd guessing: the images featured no clothes at all. An Instagram post earlier this month was more revealing – in both senses. It featured model Anja Rubik in a high-cut metallic swimsuit, tan lines from a bikini visible.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Maria Grazia Chiuri and Pierpaolo Piccioli walk the runway during the Valentino haute couture in July. Photograph: Pascal Le Segretain/Getty ImagesOther debuts see women designers moving into positions more recently held by men. The relative unknown Bouchra Jarrar will show her first collection for Lanvin on Wednesday and Maria Grazia Chiuri – ex of Valentino – does the same at Christian Dior on Friday. Chiuri is the first female designer to take up the Dior helm in the house’s nearly 60-year history. Her work at Valentino with Pierpaolo Piccioli since 2008 has gained fans for its modern, younger take on femininity. Chiuri’s Dior is set to be one of the most anticipated shows of the week. “I am very excited to see what Chiuri does at Dior, and Jarrar at Lanvin,” confirms Kenya Hunt, fashion features director at Elle. “I love the idea of women designing for women at two of Paris’s most storied houses.”While Chanel, Balenciaga, Céline and Louis Vuitton remain the blue-chip Parisian houses, newer labels are gaining hype with an aesthetic that has more of an street edge to it. Tuesday has shows from Koché and Jacquemus – both brands led by a new generation of Paris designers, playing with sportswear and staples such as trenches in new ways. Koché’s designer, Christelle Kocher, told the Guardian this month that “Paris has always been the centre of creativity. Now, there is a new area of fashion with youth taking over.” This is further emphasised with street labels from America – Rihanna’s Fenty Puma line and Virgil Abloh’s Off White – also on the Paris schedule.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rihanna walks the runway at the Fenty Puma show in February in New York. Photograph: JP Yim/Getty Images for Fenty Puma“Paris fashion week has always been major, but we’re seeing much more newness now,” says Sarah Rutson, vice-president of global buying at Net-a-Porter. “It’s not just about the big established brands any more, there are so many debuts on and off schedule.” She namechecks Jacquemus, Off White, Atlein and Vetements as key players.Paris’ new street cred is arguably led by Vetements, founded by Demna Gvasalia and collective in 2014. “Gvasalia’s work has been the most agenda-setting in that we’ve seen his influence all over the spring/summer catwalks, and all over the street style circuit,” says Hunt. This is achieved through a youth-infused look. Gvasalia told the Guardian last year that the inspiration was “what young people are wearing on the streets of Paris”. Rather than the white shirts and ballet flats of the old guard, this translates to oversized hoodies, logo T-shirts and vintage-y floral dresses. Gvasalia has now reached the top of Paris fashion: he will show his second collection for Balenciaga this week. Vetements, meanwhile, has the ultimate Paris fashion accolade: they were nowhere to be seen on the schedule this week. Instead, they showed their spring collection at couture in July – a sure sign that the new generation have been accepted by the Paris fashion establishment.