Before Izzy Bizu became one of Music’s Most Likely To – her acoustic soul shortlisted for a Brit critics’ choice award, longlisted for the BBC’s Sound of 2016 poll, touring with Sam Smith, soundtracking the BBC’s coverage of Euro 2016 – she was one third of a pop trio called SoundGirl. Like a bargain-bin Sugababes whose USP was a uniform of neon leggings, they toured with Justin Bieber at the peak of his tween hysteria phase; post-Baby, pre-abandoned monkey. Aside from these live dates, their only big boost came in the form of the single Don’t Know Why, a revamped version of Carly Simon’s 1982 hit Why. It peaked at No 45 in the UK charts in 2011, an underwhelming performance that presumably spooked their record company. SoundGirl were dropped shortly before their debut was released.“We had a great time but I wasn’t really thinking about anything,” Bizu says. “I was so naive and oblivious to everything that was going on, I didn’t realise the impact of any of it. Then we got stopped after two years and I was like: ‘Fuck!’” She apologises to my recorder: “Sorry. I shouldn’t have sworn.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Izzy Bizu onstage at the Roundhouse, Camden Town, in March. Photograph: Gaelle Beri/RedfernsPeppy and profanity-averse: Izzy Bizu, full name Isobel Bizu Beardshaw, is not going to bulldoze through the New Boring any time soon. She is more likely to nudge it in an effervescent, jazzier direction. She has a comfortable place among the warm and affable solo stars who have succeeded in recent years, but she has a relatively unvarnished approach to pop stardom; she doesn’t have the blank-eyed glare of determination common to so many ambitious young artists. She blames her former group getting dropped on the fact she was a bit “shit at the time” and today sits with a muddled head from a boozy trip to Amsterdam the night before. She’s the scrappy, skateboarding Lianne La Havas, a sedated Paloma Faith.Her backstory is also a little less linear than the usual Brit school narrative. She spent her childhood living in Ethiopia, her mother’s homeland, and Bahrain, where her father was working. She relocated to south-west London in her teens and was in SoundGirl shortly afterwards. She was 17 when they briefly flared and fell, and then she got into raving, borrowing the ID of a friend who looked nothing like her to get into clubs. “I dyed my hair blonde and straightened it. I looked at the bouncer and was like: ‘Listen, yeah, this took me three hours.’”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the video for Izzy Bizu’s Mad Behaviour. I’m pretty normal but there’s a lot of dialogue going on in my head. That period between 15 and 22 was a bit mad for me She decided to go to college to study music tech, where she met Mika Barroux, a budding musician who would later become her bandmate, biggest cheerleader and – for a short period – her boyfriend. Unable to afford the tuition fees, she dropped out and got a part-time job, until she discovered that her cousin ran ILuvLive, an open-mic showcase that helped launched the careers of Jessie J, Ed Sheeran and Emeli Sandé. That was where she learned how to perform: in February 2013, she won an open-mic competition in front of an audience including Sandé and Naughty Boy; in September, she released her Coolbeanz EP, which Zane Lowe declared his “next hype”, and since then it has been up and up.Tonight she is in a cafe in Paris, a city in which she and Barroux – who is French – performed their earliest shows, and which embraced her music from the beginning. She loves jazz, but Bizu tends to the breezy and freewheeling rather than whisky-soaked and tortured. Yet her titles suggest an unhinged mania ripples beneath the serenity. Her forthcoming album is called A Moment of Madness, and the single, Mad Behaviour.“On the surface, I’m pretty normal. But I just think there’s a lot of dialogue going on in my head,” she says. “That period between 15 and 22, that whole period was a bit mad for me. I went through so much and I had a great time. But I went through a lot of trying to seek approval and even though I was relieved at getting dropped, part of me was like: ‘I’m not good enough.’ And then I had to reinvent myself and I was meeting new people all the time and hoping that I was going to be accepted in a new environment; there was a lot of internal dialogue. Like: ‘Where do I stand in this place, in this world?’ Do you know what I mean?”Bizu is a big believer in spiritual awareness – in fate and serendipity. She says SoundGirl being dropped allowed her to meet Barroux, while being unable to pay her final year of college fees fast-tracked her into the music scene. Her music, however, is firmly lodged in the reality of first love and its subsequent insecurities, inspired by her musical heroes.“They went through some tough stuff and were really brave to talk about it. Nina [Simone] came from a time when it was pretty racist, people weren’t talking about certain things and she just wrote about all this great stuff to do with equality and I feel like she changed things for the better. Same thing with Amy Winehouse; she said a lot of things about men that were usually not supposed to be said, but I thought it was awesome. Attitude – not in a lame way.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the video for Someone That Loves You by Honne ft Izzy Bizu. My music is about being OK with being a bit imperfect, rough around the edges, a bit of a space chicken So what does Izzy Bizu’s music have to say? “Well, my music is a lot of vulnerability and more like being OK with being a bit imperfect, rough around the edges, a bit of a space chicken.” She doesn’t clarify what a space chicken is. “It’s about finding yourself, feeling like you’re drowning one second then feeling like you’re on top of the world.”Since the flurry of hype at the start of 2016, her momentum has picked up slowly. Her single White Tiger has floated through ad campaigns and TV soundbeds this summer, while her album, due for release in September, is reminiscent of the revamped retro of Amy Winehouse’s Frank: it has the summery sync-friendliness of an M&S ad soundtrack. After years of self-doubt, the industry endorsements and millions of YouTube views and Spotify streams – White Tiger and the Honne collaboration Someone That Loves You have been particularly successful – must have been a massive boost.“It’s been a slow work in progress from now to back then,” she says. “I’m just really happy that [people] enjoy the music. It was really nice.”She heads off to prepare for her show, during which she plays a reggae version of OutKast’s Ms Jackson and jazz-lite cover of Portishead’s Glory Box. Then she ventures out into the night with a group of friends and fans to get drunk by the Seine; part serene soul star, part space chicken, forever SoundGirl.Izzy Bizu plays Secret Garden Party, Huntingdon, on 24 July and Leopallooza, Bude, on 30 July.