This was rather tiring, and very much a tale of two halves. At first, it was an extremely exciting episode if you are a fan of marine engineering. For everyone else, it was a bit rambling. Lots of things going on, but nothing really moving. Demelza is with bump and catching illegal fish. Francis is looking for a mine in the garden with his homemade divining rod. There’s a vote to curb the mine expansion. Ross is selling his shares. Elizabeth is taking refreshment with (soon-to-be-broken-nosed) Evil George. And here’s Verity! All these things, and yet all a bit dull. Until ... suddenly it all kicked off! “Are you suggesting we go into partnership?” A renewed collaboration with Francis was a quick route to an unexpectedly graphic eye-gouging in the pub for Ross, an altercation which revealed that Evil George’s lessons with the weedy boxing master have not been as effective as he had hoped. Meanwhile Demelza was going into labour while doing a spot of fishing. “Give me the oars, Demelza.” “I can manage!” This was some hardcore baby-delivering, with Demelza seemingly set on the world’s first unassisted water birth. At sea. And straight back into a moss-green corset for the opening of the Grace Wheel within moments!       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I can manage!’ Demelza was seemingly set on the world’s first unassisted water birth. At sea. Photograph: BBC/Mike AlsfordI know fans of the original Poldark fiction are ranting below the line that we’re cantering through the plot at an unnecessary rate of knots, and I wonder if this is precisely the issue here. Things are not being allowed to proceed at their natural, televisual pace. I kept expecting Cliff Barnes to walk on and start talking about Wentworth Oil. (This is a Dallas reference, young people. Don’t bothering Googling it. I simply mean it has gone a bit soapy.)Poldark works best when there’s less plot and more characterisation. And there was so much plot in this episode (much of it Groundhog Day-ish) that we didn’t get to see the characters smoulder in the way they should. Both literally and figuratively. The human moments are when Poldark really comes alive. Verity was adorable at the meeting with her step-daughter. And who doesn’t have a not-very-secret soft spot for Captain Blamey? T’wouldn’t be right nor proper not to admit that a tear sprang to the eye when he said to Francis: “She would dearly love it. That’s why I also desire it.” Like many actors in this series, Richard Harrington puts a lot into what isn’t a huge role and it is most satisfying. More acting, fewer shenanigans, please!       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Who doesn’t have a not-very-secret soft spot for Captain Blamey? Photograph: BBC/Adrian RogersThe business of the Grace Wheel (did I understand that name correctly?) and the new-fangled pumping engine was neither here nor there. It wasn’t drawn out enough for us to get invested. I would rather have seen lengthy scenes of Francis trying to buy the perfect nose-gay for Elizabeth. In happier news: next week Ross is going to take a bath. Yes, you read that right. Better get in an extra order of Elizabeth Shaw Dark Mint Crisps and smelling salts.Pewter tankard award for bonkers brilliance as supporting actor      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   It was a big week for Team Sindy Doll …Caroline Penvenen (Gabriella Wilde). Photograph: BBC/Mike AlsfordIt was a big week for Team Sindy Doll. If only we could all go around fluttering our eyelashes saying “I have a fancy to indulge the whim” (translation: “Because I want to”) and have Bergerac give us £50 at the drop of a hat with a shoe buckle on it. Caroline Penvenen (Gabriella Wilde) is proving divisive below the line. But your humble reviewer won’t be told, beloved ‘Darkers! I adore this character, every red velvet inch of her, and I think Wilde is doing a fine job. Plus, Sindy doll had the only moments of comedy in this week’s episode which were much needed. “Dwight Enys is a scoundrel. For all he knows he may have been dead.” This is how to attract men: request that they come a-calling to assure themselves of your full recovery. Poor Sindy doll dog woman. Without a mobile to hand, she is having to send her flirty text messages in scratchy-quill paper form. How time-consuming! Her plan worked, though. “How kind of you to call. I haven’t been waiting above three months. Are you going to examine my throat or not?” Ooh, doctor, do tell me more about the treatment of scrofula and scurvy!Classic Poldark lines“All my business is urgent.” No, Evil George, all your business is evil, we say, evil.“Children are the natural consequence of marriage, are they not?” Well, Verity, not exactly the consequence of marriage ... you see, when a man and a lady love each other very much ... oh, never mind. Pour us some rum for we are ravaged by thirst.“You think you can do as you please while I always do as you bid me? Well, think again.” You tell him, Demelza. Regulation reverse sexism bare chest momentA momentary glimpse of deep-V-neck action in the mine reminiscent of Michael Douglas’ V-neck in the disco in Basic Instinct, only much less prolonged and far less disturbing. Same shirt worn for saving-Demelza-from-birthing-baby-alone-in-boat scene. Excellent wardrobe recycling. Not enough chest. That’s all changing next week, though. I might go blind.Next weekRoss’s financial crisis worsens. There’s a betrayal in the Poldark household. Sindy doll dog woman makes her 159th pass at Dr Enys. And finally – and, truly, I sense this might be mildly important for some viewers – Ross has a wash.