Let’s face it, the end of summer is faintly depressing for most of us. The year is half over, the days are drawing in, the weather is only getting worse, and soon we won’t be able to move for bad mince pies. But September does have a few good things going for it, and the plum one is, in my opinion, the damson. This inky hedgerow fruit is to its cultivated cousins as a gamey wild rabbit is to a fat farmed bunny – there’s a similar, almost savage intensity of flavour to both.Indeed, though fruit varies from tree to tree, it’s relatively rare to find a damson sweet enough to be eaten straight from the branch, yet it is this very tartness that makes them an excellent candidate for cooking. While other plums can exude so much water that they turn even the sturdiest of pastries into a soggy pink mess, the damson comes into its own with a little heat and sugar. Damson crumble, damson pie, damson sorbet and, quickest and easiest of all, my personal favourite, damson fool, whose creaminess is the perfect foil for this powerful little fruit. Don’t take my word for it, though – Nigella herself considers them “glorious” and says of damson fool: it’s “the recipe for which I wait most greedily”. And she knows a thing or two about pudding.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Damson fool by Nigella Lawson. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianThe fruitThe price of this utterly delicious dish is that damsons have stones which seem utterly disproportionate to their size, and are a massive faff to remove. Only Lindsey Bareham does so before cooking, writing that “the best approach … is to settle down with some good music or an engaging radio play, or share the job over a gossip with a friend, and just get on with it. I use a small but not overly sharp knife to slice the fruit off the stone in three large pieces (an elastoplast over the thumb will avoid the inevitable criss-cross of almost-cuts).” Other sources suggest using a cherry stoner (a tool I accepted as inevitable after adventures in clafoutis), which I find easier than a knife, but which ejects an annoyingly large amount of flesh along with the stone.How to cook the perfect apricot tart Lawson, however, writing in How to Eat, warns readers that if they try to stone the fruit before cooking, “you’ll go really mad”. Indeed, most recipes ask you to pass the fruit through a sieve to remove both stones and tannic skins, though the website Foods of England removes the stones after cooking and then purees the whole fruit, skins and all. It’s certainly easier to pop them out once the fruit has softened, but I don’t detect a great flavour benefit from including the skins in the finished dish, and, as my testers will confirm, unless you laboriously sieve the puree, the bits do have a tendency to get stuck in the teeth.This is also the point to tame the damson’s aggressive tartness with the judicious application of sugar. Good Housekeeping magazine and Skye Gyngell use simple caster, with the latter also adding a pinch of salt, the Foods of England website goes for demerara and a squeeze of lemon juice, and Lawson uses caster, dark and light muscovado. Irish chef Denis Cotter, who favours a similar mix, writes in his book Wild Garlic, Gooseberries … and Me, that “the three different sugars … might seem overkill. However, the toffee flavour of muscovado sugar goes very well with damsons”. I’m inclined to agree – though we can’t pick out the three different sugars in Lawson’s puree, the sweetness does seem deeper and richer than in those versions made with just white sugar, so it makes sense to use that.Chef Adam Gray is the only one to substitute water for apple juice, which makes his puree taste great, but distinctly of apples which, given we’ll be eating the things for the next six months, while damsons are already on their way out, seems a shame.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Damson fool by Skye Gyngell. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianThe dairyLeaving the obvious political jokes aside for fear of introducing ill-feeling into an otherwise straightforwardly joyful recipe, fools fall into two main camps: custard-based, or pure whipped cream. Simon Hopkinson, who I would trust with my life, or at least my beloved cherry stoner, is of the opinion that custard is unnecessary, writing in Roast Chicken and Other Stories that “the perfect fool, for me, is just cream, fruit and sugar”. Lawson and Gyngell agree, folding the puree (or syrup in Gyngell’s case) into double cream whipped with a little icing sugar, while Foods of England lightens the cream with a couple of stiffly beaten egg whites. How to make the perfect blood orange sorbet Certainly Hopkinson is right in terms of effort – the time saved by leaving out the custard is perfect for stuffing your face with fool, as I discover when I make the Good Housekeeping version, with its vanilla-infused, cornflour thickened number, and have to wait, not with the best of grace, for it to cool before I can fold in the puree.That’s nothing to Gray’s recipe, however, which involves a cooked egg yolk and sugar mixture flavoured with reduced apple juice, and set with gelatine. This is then folded into an Italian meringue and some whipping cream to give a firm, mousse-like texture with an intense sweetness that doesn’t allow much contrast with the fruit itself. The custard has a similar problem – it just has too much egg and vanilla flavour of its own. Cream, therefore, seems the way to go, but unless you’re eating it right away, it has a tendency to set rather firm, which is where the egg whites come in; they give the fool a lovely light, foamy texture which, testers greedily note, makes it all too easy to eat. Which, I must confess, is the general idea here.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Damson fool by Adam Gray. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianThe extrasDamsons don’t really need much in the way of help in the flavour department, though this never stops us cooks trying to add our own stamp. Lawson sprinkles in a little mixed spice, which tastes a little too Christmassy at a time of year when we’re all in denial about that festival’s approach, and Good Housekeeping goes for sloe gin, to my slight annoyance given I’m carefully eking out last year’s stash until someone is kind enough to gift me another bottle (hint hint, friends). To add insult to injury, no one can taste it in the finished dish. Janet Street-Porter adds the slightly less autumnal elderflower cordial, which falls into the same category as Gray’s apple – a nice, but unnecessary extra flavour. This is a dish that should be all about the damsons. Damsons, cream, and a very big spoon.(Serves 4)500g damsons, well washed2 tbsp light muscovado sugarLemon juice (optional)300ml double cream2 tbsp icing sugar2 egg whitesPut the fruit in a saucepan with the sugar and 125ml water. Bring to the boil, then turn down the heat a bit and simmer until soft and pulpy (about 15 minutes). Push through a sturdy sieve or fine strainer (a conical chinois is ideal if you have one) into a bowl, getting as much pulp through as possible. Allow to cool then taste and add more sugar if necessary, or a spritz of lemon juice if you feel your fruits need it.Stir the icing sugar into the cream then whip into soft peaks. In a separate bowl, whisk the egg white until stiff. Very gently fold this into the cream, then swirl the cooled puree through this. Served immediately, or refrigerate.Damsons, bullaces, or sloes – what’s your favourite wild plum, and what’s the crop been like near you this year? And once you’ve had your fill of fools, what’s next on the menu? (Damson negroni, anyone?)