Ever feel like you’ve been had? The whole point of Versailles was that it was meant to come laden with gratuitous nudity and violence. But with only one shag 33 minutes in – and even that was far too sensitively filmed; not even a passing bum or nipple – along with a single hanging and a fairly inoffensive beating-up, the second episode turned out to be little more than 80s Sunday night soap Howards’ Way, in fancy dress. At the tail end of last week’s episode, historians Kate Williams and Greg Jenner were imprisoned in a tiny attic and made to explain how everything we had just watched could just about have happened and – if you kept an open mind – it could even have been a documentary. But Kate and Greg didn’t sound convinced by the birth of a black baby to Marie-Thérèse; Louis was equally unconvinced by the nice-but-dim doctor’s explanation that the black dwarf must have surprised his wife so much while “playing with her” that he impregnated her with a penetrating look. Louis then announces the baby was stillborn, even though dozens of people have already noticed it is very much alive. The title sequence put an end to this first bit of nonsense. And what a sequence it is. Especially the music, which sounds like a bad Genesis track from the early 70s. The lyrics are even more unintelligible than the theme song of The Bridge. The best I’ve been able to come up with is: “I am the king of my own name / The faeces tending to doubt / Tears the end something something / Fleeces of matches / Now is forever and forever.” If anyone can improve on this, I’d be very grateful.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Having a ball … the fashion show that ends in a poke in the eye. Photograph: Canal +/BBC Back to Louis, deep in thought over whether to go to war with the Dutch or build Versailles. Problems, problems. This Louis has just two expressions: bewildered and very bewildered. The very bewildered kicks in when he has a moment’s clarity and wonders why on Earth his agent made him audition for this nonsense. Meanwhile, the badder of the two bad Phillipes is up to some as-yet-unspecified no good. We know he’s bad because he’s got long blond hair, while everyone else just has long brown hair and looks like he’s next in line of succession to be the drummer of Spinal Tap.Louis goes for a quick walk in the garden to discuss his orange trees – Le Monde des Jardiniers avec Monty Don et Louis XIV – before going off for a quick flashback about his mum telling him to man up, and a chat with his friend Bontemps, who we know is a good guy because he is the only person in Versailles with a Scottish accent. Louis asks Bontemps about his son and Bontemps immediately falls unconscious to the floor, having just remembered that his son died a few days previously. Elsewhere in the proto-palace, a nurse tells the king’s brother – the less bad Philippe – that the baby is very much alive. Though possibly not for long, as the king has ordered Fabian to drown it. Unluckily for the baby, there was to be no such easy way out of this series, as Louis changes his mind at the last minute, has the sprog taken to a misty nunnery and arranges a fake funeral. As usual, everyone in the church is thinking more about who is getting off with whom than matters spiritual. This is about the only bit of the entire programme that feels realistic. After which, the whole thing started to drag. Some noblemen who all looked the same did some desultory plotting, Louis wandered around moodily, and the two Phillipes went to a fashion show. The less bad Philippe couldn’t understand why everybody was staring at him just because he had arrived dressed as a woman, so he poked someone in the eye. I’m not sure who, as I was losing the will to live.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bad Philippe … we know he’s bad because he’s got long blond hair. Photograph: Canal+/BBC Moments later, Louis decides that now would be as good a moment as any to have another coy assignation with his brother’s wife. Mid-shag, they whisper sweet nothings about who it would be a good idea to kill next. “Everyone needs a little death,” says Louis, imagining he is making a knowing gag about the French expression for orgasm, while blissfully unaware that he himself is dying a massive death on screen.Understandably, less-bad Philippe isn’t too happy and the brothers have a tiff. “Someone’s got to fuck her,” Louis points out, quite reasonably. “Good point, well made,” replies Philippe. Or something like that. Less-bad Phil, it turns out, is going through a particularly difficult phase and just needs a good war to make himself feel like more of a man. Like any decent elder brother, Louis promises to start one for him. (Historical non-fact alert: Louis is recognised by therapists the world over for his groundbreaking psychological insight that all transvestites are basically ordinary blokes struggling to suppress their homicidal tendencies.) Back in the queen’s bedchamber, the doctor’s daughter remembers it might be a good idea to remove the final traces of afterbirth from inside Marie-Thérèse and the queen instantly feels a lot perkier. After appointing the quack’s daughter to be his own doctor, Louis wanders off to dinner where he pronounces the immortal words, “I am the state” – L’Etat, c’est moi – (who says this isn’t real history?) then terrifies the court into submission by giving the conspirator Moncour a seriously hard time. The episode ends with a lot of people splashing in the fountain and the black dwarf lying face down in the water. I know just how he felt. 