Should We Go to Mars? 9pm, BBC4It’s what David Bowie would have wanted. But are there any other reasons for humanity to extend its increasingly flawed operations to the red planet? Kevin Fong explores the marginal pros and extremely persuasive cons – which tend to involve huge explosions and the squandering of gargantuan sums of money. Nevertheless, there is a growing sense that at some point this is a journey we might have no choice but to attempt. Phil HarrisonPeter Kay’s Car Share 9pm, BBC1The beautifully observed comedy returns and, since we have been away, Kayleigh (Sian Gibson) has moved in with her sister. This means she’s not commuting to work with John (Peter Kay), so the two instead wibble away via mobile. Barring a spot of bother involving a cyclist and a water bottle, not much happens, but the will-they-won’t-they dynamic and dialogue are more than enough in themselves. Kayleigh: “I thought you’d gone all Darren Drown.” John: “Derren …” Jonathan Wright Our Friend Victoria 9.30pm, BBC1With Britain needing laughter more than ever, it seems especially cruel that Victoria Wood, one of the brightest comic minds ever to illuminate our lives, was unexpectedly taken from us last year. In this new series, Julie Walters looks back at some of the characters her friend and collaborator created, including Chrissie the long-distance swimmer and shambolic pseudo-soap Acorn Antiques, with colleagues from Wood’s career also offering recollections. Mark Gibbings-JonesObesity: How Prejudiced Is the NHS? 9pm, BBC2It is agreed that obesity is bad: bad for obese people, and bad for an NHS struggling to cover the cost of treating them. About the causes of obesity, there is less consensus: some dismiss it as a symptom of idleness, while others regard it as a disease. Prof Rachel Batterham of University College Hospital falls into the latter category: her film wonders whether the overweight, and their condition, are being taken as seriously as they should. Andrew MuellerLater Live: With Jools Holland 10pm, BBC2This is the 50th series of Later … and notwithstanding one’s fondness for the liberal application of honky-tonk piano to all forms of music, it’s an impressive achievement. Coming live from Maidstone in Kent, Holland will be joined by guests including Kasabian, Goldfrapp, the punctuation-trolling Anderson .Paak, Spoon, Phoenix-born singer songwriter Courtney Marie Andrews, and the truly excellent Thundercat. Ben Arnold Walt Disney 9pm, PBS AmericaWalt Disney, as evinced by this sprawling, even-handed documentary series, remains a deeply divisive figure. As one talking head says, he is a “Rorschach of America – the love and hate [for him] off the chart”. This first episode of the film – stripped across the week in four parts – explores his unhappy childhood, early work and driven determination in setting up his world-beating studio, leading to the 1928 premiere of Steamboat Willie. Ali CatterallHap and Leonard  9pm, AMCThe final episode in what has been an amiable series with a distinctive tang, which sets it apart from the plethora of more routine shows being churned out by the season by US TV. The odd duo find themselves in a desperate yet at times strangely farcical shootout that it seems even they can’t quite take seriously; Trudy offers up a tearful confession; and Hap makes a fateful discovery related to his dog. All set up nicely for season two. David StubbsFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Deliriously bloody … 13 Assassins. Photograph: PR13 Assassins (Takashi Miike, 2010) 1.15am, Film4.Miike, creator of queasily gripping sado-thrillers such as Audition and Ichi the Killer, proves a master of the more traditional samurai movie here. It’s set in 1840s Japan, where a small band of heroic warriors assembled by the charismatic Kôji Yakusho are dispatched to kill a tyrannical lord (Gorô Inagaki) who is protected by 200 soldiers. The climactic hour-long running battle is a deliriously bloody chunk of action movie. Paul HowlettLive sportCycling: Paris-Camembert 1.30pm, Eurosport 1. Coverage of the urban-to-rural French road race.ODI Cricket: West Indies v Pakistan 2.25pm, Sky Sports 1. The final contest of a three-match series from Providence Stadium in Guyana.Champions League Football: Juventus v Barcelona 7pm, BT Sport 2. The first leg of a fascinating-looking quarter-final tie in Turin.