The dragons from the Game of Thrones books and TV series are, sadly, a fiction but that does not mean they are not worthy of some serious (OK, semi-serious) scientific thought and musings. Certainly they are not the most unlikely animals that scientists have seriously suggested could fly as made famous by the proposition in 1920 that Stegosaurus could take to the air (yes, that Stegosaurus, the one with the plates).Fictional creations in science fiction and fantasy can certainly be instructive and a great launch point for discussion and thoughts about what might be possible or plausible in reality. Many ideas and concepts have appeared in fiction before serious scientists looked at them, and some have been provided a real inspiration for later research and technological developments. With that in mind, just how plausible are these animals, in particular given their huge size? Although the air is full of birds and insects (and the bats at night), powered flight has only evolved a very limited number of times. In addition to these three living groups, the extinct pterosaurs are the only other group known to have evolved this mechanism of locomotion. The diversity of these groups (10,000 species of birds, 2,000 bats and probably millions of insects) points to the success of groups that can make the leap into, and then stay in, the air. Passive gliding is rather more common with numerous lineages of things like flying squirrels, flying frogs, geckoes, snakes, sugar gliders and more making use of some form of wing and a high point to launch and travel between trees efficiently and quickly.   A colugo with outstretched wings glides between the trees Photograph: Norman Lim/National University of Singapore/PA WireThe biggest gliders around today are the so called flying lemurs (colugos), though they are not primates but a separate group of mammals called dermopterans. The largest of these has a wingspan of less than a metre and weight only a kilo or so, so they are really not very large but do have huge membranous wings to support them. This is actually comparable to the largest bats in terms of weight, though the largest fruitbats have a wingspan that is over 1.5 m. This seems to be as large as various flying mammals can get, although the fossil record for bats is scant and it is quite possible there were larger extinct forms. There are a number of flying birds today that can be considered the ‘largest’ depending on your measures. The largest of the albatross have the largest wingspans at 3.5m, while the Andean condor has the biggest wing areas (combining a span over 3 m with broad wings). The heaviest birds are the largest bustards which top out at around 18kg and these animals also are impressive launchers, taking off from a standing start more like a pigeon than the big run-ups of things like swans, although they tire quickly. Somewhat inevitably though, the fossil record does give us some bigger options.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The world’s heaviest flying bird - the great bustard - takes to the air Photograph: Roger Tidman/Natural England/PAThe pelagornithids are an extinct group of albatross-like birds that cruised above the oceans between about 60 and 2 million years ago. These are known as the pseudotooth birds as they appeared to have a row of sharp teeth in their mouths though these were in fact part of the bones of the jaws and were covered by the beak. The largest of these animals had wingspans in excess of 6 metre and so were nearly twice the span of the biggest birds around today. This though pales next to the biggest pterosaurs.These animals lived alongside the dinosaurs from around 240-65 million years ago. Although they produced plenty of big species with wingspans of 5-7m, in their last years a few real giants emerged in North America and Europe. With wings that stretched more than 10 m across, and long necks with large heads, these animals would stand as tall as giraffes on the ground but could unfold into animals with wings like that of a small plane. Mass estimates for these giants come in at around 250kg – surprisingly light for something that size, but still a quarter ton animal that was a powered flier.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The largest pterosaurs had a wingspan in excess of 10 m and a large head on a long neck but were lightly built Photograph: Mark Witton/PAThis is actually a decent match for the current size of the dragons as seen in the last series (see top image - they are a lot bigger now). Obviously no one is standing next to them with a tape measure or a meter ruler, but based on some decent stills of them with various actors they do seem to come in at around 10 m or so in wingspan. Their proportions are different to those of the biggest pterosaurs but not so alien as they do not provide a decent comparison and obviously both are reptiles of some form, so they again line up.The dragons are also clearly powered fliers, capable of taking off from the ground and actively gain height, and actually they seem to do this the same way that some bats do and the large pterosaurs did – using their wings. Flying vertebrates have huge chest muscles to power the wings and keep them in the air as is quite obvious to anyone who has carved a chicken for dinner, but birds are rather odd in that when taking off they mostly get into the air by jumping with their legs and then flapping the wings. That means they have to carry around big heavy legs that are mostly only good for getting airborne, but the pterosaurs have spindly legs with weak muscles as they are mostly there for support and the power for both running and take off comes from the huge flight muscles with the hands pushing off from the ground to launch them before they flap.This is where things start to break down though and the dragons start to have problems. Unlike the big pterosaurs (and birds) that had tiny tails, the dragons retain very long ones, and they also appear to be both thick and muscular, and the hindlimbs too seem generally powerful. That points to a lot of weight that they would need to lug when in the air and while it might make them more powerful runners on the ground and good at jumping it’s going to put a lot more strain on the wings to get up and going in the first place. That means that while the overall sizes are similar to the biggest pterosaurs, the dragons seem to be a lot heftier.The problems increase from here as the wings on the dragons are also rather small. To be more specific the giant bat-like span of fingers probably would work fine at large sizes, but close to the body the wing is very narrow and the membrane joins the body at the hip. In fact both bats and pterosaurs that fly with membranous wings had them terminate a below the knee or even at the ankle. This broad wing naturally can help provide more thrust and lift as a bigger wing can catch more air - assuming that there’s the muscle power behind it to propel those wings, and again the dragons seem a bit short. They don’t have the deep chests of birds with the huge breastbone (sternum) to support major flight muscles here, but then nor do they have the pack of muscles across the shoulders that pterosaurs and bats go for, so they seems rather short on power. That might link to the smaller wings but it certainly won’t help them get into, or stay in, the air.  A pterosaur fossil showing the extremely thin walls and large hollow cavities of the air-filled bones Photograph: Dave HoneFinally is the skeleton itself – weight is critical to flying animals and the skeleton is a very heavy part of the body. Bats are quite light for their size as they have bones which are quite soft and less heavy than those of other mammals. It’s possible to tie a bat’s finger bone into a loose knot if you are careful (note: do this on a skeleton, not a live bat), and on a large skull you can see the roots of the teeth through the bones of the jaws because they are so thin. Birds and pterosaurs on the other hand went down the route of changing their bones shapes and having both their bones and bodies partially filled with air. Extensions of the lungs called airsacs filled their bones and chest cavities making them very light for their size and of course making it easier for them to fly. While we have yet to have a good look at the skeletons of the dragons we have seen a skull in the cellars of the red keep and it looks like a solid block of bone and has none of the features we might expect of reduced weight like large open holes that we see in pterosaurs or pneumatic cavities – dragons had heavy bones.Put all this together and sadly these animals simply don’t look like they can fly. Some estimates suggest that the biggest pterosaurs were at the limit of the weight of viable flying animals and yet the dragons have smaller wings, smaller muscles and none of the weight saving in the bones, legs or tail. They would have been grounded even before we take into account the full sizes that these animals are supposed to get to (capable of swallowing a horse apparently!). Still, it’s hopefully an interesting wander around the largest of flying animals and the adaptations needed to fly at large size. Applying a bit of science to these animals might well leave them stranded but that doesn’t mean we can’t enjoy them for the creations that they are, and I’d love to dissect one if there ever an option!This post is part of a wider blog carnival about the science (OK, and speculation around it) of Game of Thrones. The other entries are:One Reason Scientists and Science Writers Want to Talk About Game of Thrones by Matt ShipmanTales from a Westeros Geologist by Miles TraerWinter is coming: climate change and biodiversity beyond the Wall by Jacquelyn GillA Storm of Chemistry by Raychelle BurksThe Heating Engineers of Winterfell by Jesse EmspakDire Wolves Were Real by Brian SwitekWhite Walkers: a warning letter from north of The Wall by Michelle LaRueThe Epidemiology of Greyscale by Tara C. Smith