After your name is checked at the electric gate by a security guard, a private road leads you up into the barren, rocky hills above Palm Springs, past high-walled compounds and their secluded, sparkling pools, until you reach a lush green outcrop – where a gigantic concrete bird appears to have come in to land.At home with Elvis and Frank Sinatra: the modernist superpads of Palm Springs Its curving wings billow out above the driveway, before swooping down over a waterfall and flaring out again above a patio, large enough to seat 300 people for dinner. The concrete canopy rises to a great dome, pierced by a central oculus that frames a circle of deep blue California sky. From inside this voluminous tent, it feels like looking up at the gaping mouth of a volcano.“If the Martians ever come to Earth,” said American comedian Bob Hope, who commissioned this sprawling residence in the 1970s, “at least they will know where to land.”The 25,000 sq ft home, replete with six bedrooms, 13 bathrooms, two swimming pools and its own putting green, was the most lavish vision ever concocted by architect John Lautner, the supreme conjuror of theatrical hideaways for the stars. Not that Lautner himself ever wanted to be associated with it. He fell out with the client after Hope’s wife, Dolores, decided that his dramatic concrete volumes didn’t quite chime with her own chintzy tastes. She commissioned an interior designer to line the bedrooms with garish floral wallpaper, cover the floor-to-ceiling windows with New England-style wooden shutters, and fit the bathrooms with gold taps and chandeliers.It might be part of the reason that the estate agents are having such a hard time shifting it. The Hope Estate has now been on the market for three years, its asking price slashed in half, from $50m to $25m.“As far as livability goes, Lautner wasn’t great,” says Stewart Smith, the realtor tasked with ensnaring an ultra-high net worth buyer – preferably one who doesn’t suffer from agoraphobia. Before major alterations in the 90s, it took an age to reach the front door from most parts of the house, while kitchen staff had to go outside and along a circuitous ramp to reach the dining room. “It is a fantastic place for entertaining,” he adds, showing a video on his phone of the Louis Vuitton fashion show held here recently. “But the pool of people looking for a second home of this size in a resort town isn’t huge.” It took an age to reach the front door It’s likely to go to a collector – one who now has the rare chance of snapping up another spectacular Lautner house right next door, a snip at $10m. If the Hope house is the Martian landing pad, then the Elrod House, built in 1968, is the UFO itself. Famously featured as a Bond villain’s lair in Diamonds Are Forever , where Sean Connery gets an acrobatic beating from bikini-clad henchgirls Bambi and Thumper, it was the result of flamboyant interior designer Arthur Elrod telling Lautner: “Give me what you think I should have.” The slick home of a baddie plotting to destroy the world with a space laser was evidently the answer. A 20-metre diameter concrete disc floats above the main living space, opening out on to the obligatory pool, its radial openings giving it the look of a vast propeller, as if the whole house might lift off at any moment.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Elrod House, where James Bond fought off Bambi and ThumperThese dazzlingly space-age homes are just two of the architectural jewels that are liberally scattered throughout Palm Springs, a desert outpost that became an unlikely incubator for experimental modernist architecture in the 1950s and 60s, when it took off as a playground for the Hollywood Rat Pack. From Frank Sinatra and Dean Martin, to Liberace and Elvis, each demanded a house better than the next – creating an outdoor museum of midcentury design, which now attracts thousands of pilgrims to the annual Modernism Week in February, when many of the properties are open for rare tours.The Swiss-born Albert Frey was one of the first architects lured here from Europe in the late 1930s, drawn to the wide open landscape after practising on the east coast. As he wrote in a letter to his former employer, Le Corbusier: “It is a most interesting experience to live in a wild, savage, natural setting, but without losing contact with civilisation due to the intellectual milieu of Palm Springs. Moreover, the sun, the pure air and the simple forms of the desert create the perfect conditions for architecture.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Frey House II, which ‘dissolves into the landscape’.His own home, built on a cliff above the town in 1964, is the unparalleled example of what became known as desert modernism, a style that capitalised on the climate, creating minimal enclosures that dissolved into the landscape. The Frey House seems like little more than a sheet of corrugated tin perched atop a series of glass walls, with built-in furniture deftly assembled around a gigantic boulder that crashes straight into the centre of the house, jammed between the sofa and the bed. It is emblematic of the rugged yet refined approach that came to define the Palm Springs look, where the climate and carefree atmosphere fostered a certain experimental bravery, as architects were liberated from the usual practical constraints.“It was a strangely isolated petri dish of style,” says designer Brad Dunning, who moved here in the 90s and has actively campaigned to preserve much of its heritage ever since. “These were mostly people’s second homes, so they were more willing to be adventurous. You might not want to live in a crazy angled house all the time, but it’s fun for the weekend.”It was a lifestyle that quickly spread beyond the celebrity elite. The Alexander Construction Company began building neighbourhoods of holiday homes aimed at America’s growing post-war middle class, using a standardised floor-plan topped with alternating jaunty rooflines, styled with a distinct whiff of the Jetsons. Sold for $30,000 when they first launched in 1957 – each with its own swimming pool and pair of palm trees in the garden – they now change hands for $1m.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Suburban paradise’ … a modernist house in Palm Springs in the 60s. Photograph: jimriche.com“The architects had a sincere and modest agenda conceiving a remote suburban paradise for the lower middle class when they were built,” says architectural historian Nicholas Olsberg. “Now they are trophy homes for mostly gay Los Angelenos. People redo the kitchen, neutralise anything quirky, put in a few Bertoia chairs, rent them out and use them for a couple of weekend parties every year.”When Dunning first arrived, it was a different story. “The place was a ghost town,” he recalls. “In my neighbourhood [the now-desirable Racquet Club area] it was pitbulls on chains and front doors kicked in.” It's where LA comes to get over a hangover. And often doesn't go back The fashionable jetset mostly deserted Palm Springs in the 1970s and 80s, since when it has reified into a rather airless golfing retirement village. “It’s been gay and grey for a long time,” says Dunning, “but young people and celebrities are starting to come back.”The Ace Hotel opened an outpost here in 2009, breathing trendy life into a tired 1960s motel, while Leonardo DiCaprio acquired Dinah Shore’s 7,000 sq ft former house in 2014 – now rentable for $4,500 a night. The Coachella music festival also brings a tsunami of young revellers to the town every spring, which prompted the Sydell group (the people behind the Ace) to transform a drab Holiday Inn into the pastel-hued Saguaro hotel, where spring break-themed pool parties keep the kids dancing and the retirees at bay.That so much period architecture remains intact here is something of an accident. The surrounding desert land was always so cheap that, when the modernist bungalows became unfashionable, developers simply built on plots further out. But such is the current fetish for 50s nostalgia, there seems to be little thought given to what’s coming next. A gargantuan mall and hotel complex is currently rising out of the ground in the centre of the city, in the form of a crass out-of-town box, while much recent development follows the clichéd Jetsons-meets-Flintstones desert vernacular, with stick-on boulders and angular canopies. Still, perhaps it’s a fittingly lobotomised aesthetic for this strangely lifeless town, a place where little happens but stewing in the heat by the pool, cosseted from reality by a pristine blanket of midcentury design. As Dunning puts it: “It’s where LA comes to get over a hangover. And often doesn’t go back.”Oliver Wainwright’s travel was provided by Visit Greater Palm Springs 