When David Bench was a child in suburban Houston, he harboured a peculiar fantasy. “I used to ride in the back of the car and imagine I had a huge bat,” says the young, New York-based architect, “and I could swat down every ugly roadside building.”These daydreams may not have helped him win his place at Yale’s graduate school, or his position at the prestigious Manhattan practice, Selldorf Architects. Yet Bench thinks his destructive side assisted him and his colleague Jonathan Chesley triumph in one of his profession’s most challenging contests.Back in April 2014 Bench and Chesley won the special prize in the Storefront for Art and Architecture’s Competition of Competitions. This open-call from a venerable New York non-profit organisation was staged to find inventive, new architectural challenges. Storefront believed that the quotidian architectural competition, which usually asked for a new shopping mall or opera house proposals, had stymied the discipline’s development and narrowed its purview.Bench and Chesley’s winning entry, Taking Buildings Down, was as ingenious as it was simple: rather than ask for new architectural developments, the pair wondered what kind of submissions they might receive if they called for architects to dream-up a demolition scheme.“Destruction is always seen as a negative thing,” says Chesley, “but sometimes it can be good.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Building being torn down near Motor City Casino, Detroit. Photograph: Cameron Davidson/CorbisThe competition, which is now also being staged by Storefront and will unveil its winners later this month, aims to recognise the most creative erasure of buildings, structures and infrastructures: “Removal is all that is allowed,” the rules state.Though the competition is new, the practice of architectural demolition is relatively well established. The pair point to the huge, elevated highways that were ploughed into big US cities such as Seattle and Boston during the 20th century that have, in recent years, been removed, improving both city life and traffic flow. “It doesn’t seem that anyone thought that was a bad idea,” Bench says.Chesley takes a keen interest in how wild environments can fit into urban settings, and says the destruction of a poorly conceived city spaces can make way for more efficient, natural developments. “When we talk about under-utilised space in cities we are typically describing some swath of cement with lines painted on the ground and a few scattered cars, planters or benches,” he says. “If this was to be replaced with a density of growing, living things it would automatically become intensely utilised. Even if this utilisation wasn’t by humans, the use would be palpable and important for urban ecology.”Bench and Chesley, who work together in their own informal “lunchtime” architectural firm, INC_A, have put forward a number of other radical proposals in the past, including one scheme to turn the Houston Astrodome into a sports-themed prison.While that project is unlikely to break ground, the pair believes their demolition competition piqued the interest of Storefront’s committee, thanks in part to the destruction of New York’s acclaimed Folk Art Museum, which was levelled to make way for the expansion of the Museum of Modern Art in 2014.While neither Bench nor Chesley think this nice, though not-entirely-vital the building should have been saved, the pair does believe cities need to find new ways of managing destruction.“Preservation is good, but it doesn’t allow any opposing force,” says Bench. “If you save a few beautiful buildings, it’s not as if the stuff that really should go then gets demolished. Instead, we end up putting the pressure on the buildings that are quite good, but not quite good enough to be deemed historical.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The remains of Sixth Street Bridge. Photograph: Ringo Chiu/Zuma Press/CorbisThe architects contrast the churn of development activity in New York, where buildings are constantly being torn down to make way for new ones, with less fortunate cities such as Detroit, where the demolition ball tends to swing into real estate that has stood vacant for years that, despite being perfectly serviceable, is no longer economical to maintain.“This a condition that is relevant to every city,” says Bench, “not just a down-and-out place, but also a thriving one.”Unlike some architectural competitions, there is no guarantee that Taking Buildings Down’s winning entry will be put into practice. Yet, even if no ugly tower blocks or flyovers are levelled as a direct result of Bench and Chesley’s competition, the pair still sees merit in the exercise. Taking Buildings Down could enable architects to develop a new set skills to shape the city environment, contradicting Frank Lloyd Wright’s old adage that “the physician can bury his mistakes, but the architect can only advise his client to plant vines”.“When we’re brought into a building project, most things have been decided,” says Chesley. “Yet, with a demolition project, an architect could select a subject, garner local support, and put their plan into action.”More importantly, the competition may alter the way planning officials and the general public consider the structures that surround us.“When we were in school, just after 9/11, the common belief was that no one would build a skyscraper again, and we were all going to have to plan for our buildings to be demolished,” says Chesley. “In practice no one really thinks about their building being taken away – everyone pretends it will be there forever.”Yet, if we want cities to succeed, we must, in this pair’s opinion, find ways to let the right buildings fall.“Removal is something that needs to be considered in any urban system,” says Bench, “whether it’s failing or not.”