One of Us 9pm, BBC1This new four-part series opens with the idyllic tale of childhood sweethearts Grace and Adam – before both camera and narrative draw back to reveal a bigger picture that’s altogether more disturbing. After returning from their honeymoon, the couple have been murdered in their home in Edinburgh, and the prime suspect is now on the run – in the direction of their respective families. A grim, gloomy thriller with a latent moral edge. Hannah J DaviesRookies 9pm, ITVNew documentary following trainee officers in Surrey Police, one of the few forces currently recruiting. Those about to be put through their paces include 6ft 3in Anthony, aka “The Lump”, who decided at eight to join up because of the good pension; 19-year-old Angus, attracted to the job because you get to drive a car really fast; and ex-dance instructor Tyne, whose first jobs include shining a torchlight on an amorous couple in a car and shooing away a horse. David StubbsPresident Trump: Can He Really Win? 9pm, Channel 4If the polls are to be believed, the answer to the titular question is a merciful “no”. Nevertheless, Matt Frei examines the chances of the people of the United States – the wealthiest, most powerful nation ever gathered beneath one flag – electing the orange reality show host. Frei meets members of the perplexingly numerous cohort who like the idea of entrusting Trump with launch codes, as well as Republicans openly unkeen on their nominee. Andrew MuellerVice Principals 9.35pm, Sky AtlanticMany of the great fictional schools are noted for an uncompromising approach to discipline. Think Mr Bronson-era Grange Hill or The Simpsons’ Ayn Rand School for Tots. As the US college drama continues, Gamby’s attempts to bring North Jackson High into that pantheon aren’t proving to the liking of Principal Brown, with the pompous pedagogue instructed to provide a forum where students can talk through their feelings. Mark Gibbings-Jones Beauty and the Baker 10pm, Channel 4This irreverent Israeli comedy-drama centres on Amos, a 28-year-old baker who finds his life flipped upside down following a chance encounter with Noa, the richest and most beautiful celebrity in the county. Their budding, odd-couple romance is put to the test by her jet-set life, an overbearing agent and Amos’s meddlesome family. It’s been a huge hit in Israel, with record ratings and a second series already on order. But only the first of this 10-part series will be shown on Channel 4 before the rest ends up on the on‑demand service All 4. Ben ArnoldBBC Proms 2016: Jamie Cullum Prom 10pm, BBC4Six years ago he brought the house down, in a sell-out Proms gig featuring jazz standards such as Just One Of Those Things and It Ain’t Necessarily So, alongside some improvised jams. Now the broadcaster and performer is back, Heritage Orchestra in tow, to wow them all over again, this time accompanied by conductor Jules Buckley. Other performances this evening come from the Remi Harris Trio and London’s Roundhouse Choir. Ali Catterall Wasted 10pm, E4A Spaced for generation Snapchat, in which a group of friends attempt to find themselves by drinking “Yeovil martinis” and going to Comic-Con. With half the cast hailing from Devon, the accents are as on-point as its handle on mid-20s lethargy. In the last of the series, Morpheus is told by his spirit guide Sean Bean (yes, really) that it’s finally time to lose his V-plates, so him and the gang pop off to a sex party where he bumps into an old teacher. Nightmare. Grace RahmanFilm choiceWhite Oleander (Peter Kosminsky, 2002) 11.20pm, BBC1British documentary-maker Kosminsky’s first Hollywood feature stars an impressive Alison Lohman as teenager Astrid, farmed out to a series of foster homes and orphanages when her mother (Michelle Pfeiffer) is jailed for the murder of her cheating lover (Billy Connolly). Astrid’s carers tend to the stereotypical, but the troubled mother-daughter relationship is an absorbing one.Man On Fire (Tony Scott, 2004) 11.25pm, Film4A violent thriller from Scott, with trusty Denzel Washington lending the predictable story some credibility. He’s a professional bodyguard with a drink problem who sobers up to redeem himself by wiping out the kidnappers of his young charge (Dakota Fanning). “[His] art is death, and he’s about to paint his masterpiece,” warns old buddy Christopher Walken. It’s all overheated violence from there.Live sportTest Cricket: South Africa v New Zealand The fifth day of the first Test in the series, held in Durban. 8.55am, Sky Sports 2Champions League Football: Hapoel Be’er-Sheva v CelticThe second leg of Celtic’s play-off. 7pm, BT Sport 2Football: EFL CupA second-round tie from the tournament formerly known as the League Cup. 7.30pm, Sky Sports 1This article was amended on 24 August 2016. We originally stated that the couple in One of Us were murdered in a remote corner of the Highlands. They were murdered in Edinburgh.