For years, New Yorkers have been watching several transformations take place around them. Contentious issues of gentrification, displacement and modification continue to rage on and in the midst of all this, one of the city’s greatest inventions, hip-hop, has also been undergoing what some might argue are parallel changes. The idea of what a rapper looks and sounds like is slowly being redefined and 24-year-old Bronx native Quay Dash is an emerging artist whose work is a timely reminder of just how far the genre has come.D’Lo: 'I came out three times – as gay, as having a girlfriend and as trans' “I think New York, whether it’s hip-hop or soul or R&B, we need to bring it back and go hard,” Dash says with the confidence of an artist once associated with a company called Cunt Mafia Records. “A lot of southern rappers are doing it big right now and they been doing it big for years. They took the spot and they done fucked everything up long time ago.” She’s now taking matters into her own hands (“You grow from things and that’s something I’ve grown out of”) and last month, brought out her first independent release. The five-track EP Transphobic is a vibrant, thrilling project and one that Dash hopes will strike a chord with many. “I think it’s really relevant to a lot of shit that’s going on right now in the LGBT community,” she says. “The title was a great fit for the EP because it also represents my life as a trans woman.”In a recent interview with one of her contemporaries and fellow New Yorker Young M.A, she spoke about her reticence to be labelled as a gay rapper (“I never look at LGBT when I do music. I don’t stick in that box.”) but Dash is less rigid with her beliefs. “I’m not putting myself in a box either, but I know that I’m here to represent for people in my community, definitely,” she says.The release of Transphobic arrives during an important year for the trans community with increased visibility within mainstream media but it’s not something that Dash is necessarily happy about. “Everybody knows about trans women now!” she says. “I kind of liked it better when we were a secret. Nowadays, people know what a trans woman is. They see us on the street and they just have to attack us. They have to arrest us. Before I felt like it wasn’t really out there like that.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Sonny MartinezBecause despite the apparent progress, the EP also lands at a devastating time – 2016 has been the deadliest year for trans women on record with 22 recorded murders in the US – and this hardship isn’t lost on Dash. “They can’t take it, especially people who are not of color,” she says. “They look down on a black trans woman like me. It’s like, ‘How could you do that? How dare you?’ They don’t want to take the time out to get to know people like me and it’s really saddening because, you know, we’re not bad people. We’re the same as everyone else. I don’t think it’ll ever get better for us.” She fears for the upcoming election, how that might worsen a fragile situation for the transgender community and worries for people across the country. “They love stupid, foolish things,” she said. “It saddens me to see someone like Donald Trump run for president and have some type of voice. When I’m in America, I just feel like the transphobia is real; the homophobia is real; everything is just like real. It’s so anti … I really can’t with America.”Dash’s bleak outlook comes after a life of struggle, a childhood filled with foster care and group homes as she tried to find an identity in her surroundings. “It was a real tough time for me,” she says. “I ended up living with my sister, and that’s when I started writing music and talking about the shit that was bothering me in society. That’s when I started being Quay Dash.” Her background might have led to this awakening but it doesn’t overwhelm her music. Transphobic isn’t just an EP about Quay Dash’s struggles, it’s raw and braggadocious, and quickly making her name known. “People are feeling it,” she says. “I’m pretty stoked about the future and the present is just, it’s live right now.” Despite the growth in female rappers, Dash is largely unmoved by her peers (“There’s nobody inspiring me”) and instead, acknowledges Lil’ Kim, Remy Ma and Foxy Brown as her inspirations from the past.Dash wants to fill this void and represent her city, which she feels is too often overlooked for the south, and she’s confident about her ability to push a genre that’s often transphobic and misogynist. “I’m sure it’s no different than being on the street,” she says. “I know that I’m better than most of those rappers anyways. As far as my music I just want everybody to hear my voice and let them know that I’m here, and I’m here to stay; I’m here to stay and slay.”