Last week, my esteemed colleague Hadley Freeman wrote in this column at lengthabout the forthcoming wedding of Pippa Middleton to financier James Matthews, making particular reference to the brother of the groom, Spencer Matthews, star of reality series Made in Chelsea. Lost in Showbiz makes no apology for returning to these two topics. For one thing, the excitement that has gripped the nation as a result of what is being called “the society wedding of the year” is just inescapable, isn’t it? On every street, they excitedly babble of nothing else.Certainly, the press are having a field day. LiS particularly enjoyed the column in Grazia magazine that arrived at the intriguing conclusion that the Middleton-Matthews nuptials constituted “turning our class system on its head through a love match”: yes, nothing says the old social order is shattered into a million pieces quite like the Duchess of Cambridge’s sister marrying the chief executive of a hedge fund with a portfolio worth more than £1bn, does it? Stand down, grizzled warriors of Class War: what need has Britain for your EAT THE RICH stickers and graffiti now that anarchy has been loosed on the ranks of wealth and privilege?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Keeping a wary eye open: Pippa Middleton with James Matthews. Photograph: Karwai Tang/WireImageAnd for another, the more it learns about Spencer Matthews, the more LiS likes the cut of his jib. It has spent some time this week with his indispensable contribution to the world of literature, Confessions of a Chelsea Boy. It liked the bit about the orgy, it liked the bit about the South African sex worker, but most of all it liked the bit where he took a double dose of LSD and got into a fight : “We ended up on the ground, both giving everything we had. I felt like an animal and was properly laying into him … I was looking left and right, trying to figure out where my attacker had gone, but there was no one … I had been fighting a figment of my imagination.”Now, Lost in Showbiz doesn’t know about you, but society weddings have always struck it as stuffy affairs that might be considerably improved by the presence of the kind of bloke who takes a load of acid then has a fight with someone who isn’t there. Furthermore, something about Spencer Matthews recalls Kate Middleton’s naughty Uncle Gary, whose looming presence was, by some considerable distance, LiS’s favourite aspect of the last royal wedding: naughty Uncle Gary, you may recall, lived in a house in Ibiza called La Maison Bang-Bang, persisted in referring to himself as the Duke of Slough and further distinguished himself by hoofing up a load of coke in front of a tabloid reporter, then offering to set him up with £600-a-night Brazilian prostitute. Indeed, it espies the opportunity for another strong alliance between the Middletons and the Spencers, forged perhaps at the party after the wedding reception. It pictures Spencer and naughty Uncle Gary getting bang on it together – shirts off, ties around their heads, one possibly sitting on the other’s shoulders, rah-rahing away, and pestering the DJ to play Bad Bitch by French Montana – and it thinks: at last, a society wedding Lost in Showbiz can get behind 100%.