I’ve recently seen a lot about cargo shorts in the news. What’s going on?Ben, by emailDing dong merrily on high, it’s because they have finally been banned by international law! At long last, the European court of human rights has decreed that these hideous, multi-pocketed monstrosities contravene my human rights by appearing in my line of vision on every third man in the street in the summer months. From today, there will be a cargo shorts amnesty. Everyone must hand in their disgusting shorts at a designated safe space; failure to do so will result in offenders having to walk around town wearing a scarlet sign that says: “Hi! I’m a straight guy who can’t accept the 90s are over. I shop at Old Navy, you know.” Personally, I think this is a rather odd punishment, given that wearers of these shorts essentially wear that sign every day, ba boom boom tish.Anyway, sadly, I jest; this has not happened. Rather, a journalist named Nicole Hong wrote an article about the perfectly obvious awfulness of these shorts and men rose up as one and gave a collective howl of fury. The male employees at the Wall Street Journal all came in wearing their beloved cargo shorts to protest against Hong’s piece. Film director Judd Apatow tweeted that women’s dislike of men’s cargo shorts proves “you don’t understand us”. In fact, it’s because women understand men all too well. A man who wears cargos is a man who is refusing to embrace maturity, as proved by the collective temper tantrum these chaps had when one woman questioned the merits of their stupid shorts.There are two conclusions to draw here. First, it’s adorable how outraged men (#yesliterallyallmen) get when someone criticises one piece of their clothing, given that women are told every single goddamn day how they are supposed to dress. Heck, fashion magazines tell women to throw out their entire wardrobes every six months. Do women cry about it? No, because they’re adults, and they know – and I realise this is ironic coming from me, given that the whole point of this column is ostensibly to tell people what to wear – it doesn’t really matter. Someone doesn’t like your clothes? Oh well, walk it off! Seeing these men willing to die on the hill of their cargo shorts is like watching people spend all day quarreling on the internet, unable to accept that someone has a different point of view to them. It reflects a deeply narcissistic belief that not only should everyone think the same way as them, but that they can make them do so.So, here is the definitive ruling on cargo shorts, chaps. They are – clearly, objectively, obviously – fugly. You know this, of course, given that your only real argument in defence of them is that they allow you to store your mobile close to your kneecap. And yet you want to keep wearing them. Fine, no one is going to arrest you. But we will think you look terrible in them, and no amount of whingeing will change that. Consider it your burden. Store it one of the 17 pockets on your shorts.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Katherine Heigl (practising her what-happened-to-my-career face) with Seth Rogen in Knocked Up. Photograph: Suzanne HanoverWait, Seth Rogen and Katherine Heigl are still fighting? Seriously?Tara, by emailYes, the seminal Knocked Up civil war is still raging, eight years after it began, meaning it has now lasted twice as long as the first world war.To recap, in 2008 – yes, 2008 – Heigl said in an interview that the Judd Apatow film, in which she co-starred with Rogen, was “a little sexist”. “The movie paints the women as shrews, as humourless and uptight, and it paints the men as lovable, goofy, fun-loving guys,” she said, absolutely correctly.Obviously, Apatow and Rogen considered this point of view seriously and calmly, accepting that maybe a woman would have a different – more valid, even – perspective on sexism to them. Kidding! Nope, they reacted like men whose cargo shorts had just been criticised.“[You’d think] at some point I’ll get a call saying: ‘Sorry, I was tired.’ But that call never came,” Apatow said, all more-in-sorrow-than-in-anger.“It’s not like we’re the only people she said some batshit crazy things about. That’s kind of her bag,” added Rogen. Because only fatigue and being “batshit crazy” would make someone accuse an Apatow film of being sexist.This whole farrago essentially destroyed Heigl’s career. Yes, she is supposedly a little difficult on set, but that trait doesn’t seem to have harmed, say, Jared Leto. Anyway, earlier this year, Heigl made some kind of groveling apology for daring to voice her opinion. Rogen added last week: “I respect that maybe she realises it has hurt her career,” he said, like a teacher solemnly pleased a naughty toddler has learned her lesson.The real takeaway from this is that, despite the fears of a million manboys who thought an all-female Ghostbusters meant Hollywood was being taken over by the feminazis, the movie business remains a place where a woman’s career will be destroyed if she complains that a sexist film is sexist. As writer Sady Doyle tweeted: “I mean, Seth Rogen made a comedy so terrible that it almost caused a war with North Korea, but God forbid HE apologise for anything.” Yeah, but war is cool. Telling men they’re a bit sexist? That hurts their feelings! Not as much as telling them their shorts are bad, but it’s up there.