“We have a strange relationship with alcohol in the UK. We feel guilty about how much we drink, but we hate anyone telling us we should drink less,” says Catherine Salway, co-founder of Redemption. Her business is a bar-restaurant with a difference: it doesn’t serve booze.As we embark on the festive season, dry bars could offer respite at a time when large amounts of alcohol are consumed. When Redemption opened in 2013, testing out its business model at a pop-up in Hackney, it could easily have been mistaken as a fad. How could its alcohol-free, sugar-free, wheat-free and largely vegan menu keep customers interested? Three years later, however, it has two permanent branches in Notting Hill and Shoreditch. Its revenue grew 300% year-on-year in 2015 and it has won backing from three angel investors.How to generate new business for your startup Redemption has proved you don’t need alcohol to pull in punters. Its mocktails, such as the coco-rita – a coconut water, lime and agave syrup “margarita”– are a hit with the health-conscious locals of west London. Students of nearby yoga and barre classes are regulars while tourists and trend-seekers frequent the east London branch.And more social enterprises with a similar business model are opening and thriving. There are at least 16 dry bars and cafes in the UK, plus pop-ups. Jonny Forsyth, global drinks analyst at market research firm Mintel, says teetotalism is growing, and with it the potential for no-alcohol bars as a long-term money-making prospect. One in five adults abstains from alcohol, according to the latest Office for National Statistics Adult Drinking Habits report. And there was an overall fall in alcohol consumption between 2005 and 2013, mostly in the 16- to 24-year-old demographic – the proportion of young adults who drank frequently fell by more than two-thirds.Forsyth says: “Younger people would definitely be a target for these teetotal bars. They are helping to build a market for non-alcoholic beer, for example, which is something that previously people didn’t get at all.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Redemption’s Shoreditch branch. Photograph: Oliver DixonThe student population in Liverpool is a prime customer base for The Brink, a dry bar-cafe opened through the charity Action on Addiction in 2011 and launched by a former employee, Jacquie Johnston-Lynch, whose brother Garry Johnston was killed in an accident involving a drunk driver.A lot of custom comes from students. Carl Bell, venue manager, says while the bar was initially meant to provide a mainstream venue for the charity’s service users (recovering alcoholics and addicts), around 50% of customers now come from elsewhere.Bell has a good relationship with the three universities in Liverpool and is invited to freshers fairs. “We give flyers out, tell them what we do and let the students know they can go out and socialise without getting smashed,” he says. As well as playing up its health benefits, The Brink is creative with its drinks menu; popular recipes include the Nojito and a “Shampagne mocktail”.Bell says: “We’re similar in a way to a local pub. Some people who are regulars may come here a number of times each week, some people nearly every day.” The Brink also has an activity calendar including guitar lessons, speakers and screenings of football matches.According to Emily Robinson, deputy chief executive of the charity Alcohol Concern, chain bars and pubs are also widening their non-alcoholic drinks menus, in part due to the popularity of charitable initiatives. Alcohol Concern is behind the Zero Alcohol Awards and Dry January, during which participants abstain from alcohol and either donate the money they would have spent or commit to a challenge and collect sponsorship. When it launched in 2013 around 4,000 people signed up; in 2016 that grew to 60,000.Meanwhile, Macmillan Cancer Support, the charity behind Go Sober for October, says 67,500 took part this year. For fundraisers, dry bars can offer a sociable space without the temptation to drink.While the trend for dry bars has been growing in the last few years, it’s based on a historical model – temperance bars of the 1800s. In 1835, the British Association for the Promotion of Temperance was formed. Temperance bars sprang up around north-west England selling non-alcoholic drinks as an antidote to a drinking culture in which alcohol wasn’t regulated.The historic Fitzpatrick’s temperance bar in Rawtenstall, Lancashire, once part of a chain of temperance bars owned by the Fitzpatrick family, reopened in August after a refurbishment. Owner Ashleigh Morley, says: “It’s been really busy, a lot of people come in for its history.” She said a recent visitor from south Wales first visited the bar 50 years ago when he signed a temperance pledge. “He’s still teetotal today.” While some enjoy its nostalgia, the bar has also found a new form of custom: baby showers.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A music night at Sobar with indie folk duo Putin and the Dolphin. Photograph: Jason LoftusAnd the temperance movement has a modern incarnation in online sober and drink management communities, such as Soberistas and Club Sober, which seek out non-alcoholic environments. Blogger Louise Rowlinson, who describes herself as in long-term recovery from alcohol addiction, says: “I think it is incredibly hard to not drink in Britain, it is so part of our cultural landscape. Meeting people who don’t drink [seems to be] a rarity. Sometimes it can feel exhausting to go to a pub and fend off questions all the time, people feel there is something wrong if you’re not drinking – they ask if you’re pregnant. It’s nice to have the option [of dry bars]”.At this year’s Zero Alcohol Awards, launched in 2015, no-alcohol bars featured in the best zero alcohol initiative and the people’s choice: favourite location categories. Dry bars were named as overall initiative and Sobar, a dry bar in Nottingham, was on the shortlist. Sobar opened in January 2014 through the Nottingham-based addiction charity Double Impact. Its business development manager, Eleanor Youdell, says: “The idea came from wanting to give something back to our service users that was lacking. But it appealed to a much wider audience than just those in recovery.”Custom is building steadily. It has a varied clientele including parents with young children and students from the nearby universities. Bianca Tate, 23, a regular, sometimes visits with her two-year-old daughter, at other times with friends. She says: “The atmosphere is wonderful. There are many mainstream coffee shops in Nottingham, but none that have made me feel as welcome as Sobar, and the choice in food and drink is amazing.”Forsyth says the rise of coffee shops is a useful indication of how the trend for dry bars could grow. He says when coffee shops began opening in the late nineties the concept barely existed. “Now coffee [is a billion pound market], and it’s very normal to go and meet at a coffee shop. So, if you look at it like that, you can see how there is a demand for these non-alcoholic meeting places and how something that seems odd at the beginning can change over time.” Sign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.