I’m a black Dutch author and illustrator of picture books and I’d like to tell you something about my work. The idea for my main character Princess Arabella came from a story I heard about a little black girl who was offered the role of princess in a school play, which she declined, simply because she didn’t believe that a princess could be black. I decided then and there it was high time for a black princess to appear in a picture book! Once the book was ﬁnished I had to look for a publisher of course. After some research I thought Eenhoorn, a Belgian publisher, would be the best candidate. I wrapped all the illustrations carefully and sent them by mail to Belgium. After that it was just a matter of waiting for a response…Diverse voices: the 50 best culturally diverse books “It was a rainy day,” my publisher told me later. “I had just attended what was supposed to be a meeting to celebrate an organization that provides books for children who are having difﬁculties learning Dutch as a second language. They were mainly children from a Moroccan background”. The books my publisher brought to read to them didn’t relate to them at all. Frustrated and disappointed she returned to the ofﬁce only to ﬁnd my ﬁrst manuscript and illustrations for Princess Arabella carefully wrapped at her desk! This was 10 years ago and now there are 10 Arabella books published and more to come! Princess Arabella’s Birthday was very well received, won prizes and was translated into many languages. However when it came to selling the rights to the US things got complicated. “It’s her hair”, white American publishers whispered, embarrassed, “her hair looks uncombed, our audiences will be offended”. I was bafﬂed, how could Arabella’s and her mum the queen’s hair be offensive to anyone? I modelled it after traditional African hairstyles after all? This of course had everything to do with African American history. A history marked by slavery and where generations after still reﬂected the white dominant culture. However, there has been a trend going on for some time now for black women to have their own natural hairstyles. And it seems that women nowadays get to make a choice as how to wear their hair and not out of an imposed sense of social pressure.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Princess Arabella, and her mother, complete with natural hair styles. Illustration: Mylo FreemanPrincess Arabella’s hair has never been an issue for Nigerian publisher Cassava Republic, who has already sold the rights to South Africa and more African countries to come. But since Arabella was first published in 2006, hardly any books with black leading characters have been published in Holland. Even though our major cities are becoming more and more diverse, there are no Dutch equivalents of publisher Tamarind Books or stories like Mary Hoffman’s Amazing Grace (illustrated by Caroline Binch) or the Lulu books from Anna McQuinn to be found here in Holland. Publishers will say that there are not enough offers from authors from a Surinamese or Moroccan background. But does a children’s book with a black protagonist have to be written by a black author? When you think that every author writes from their own experience perhaps this makes sense. In that respect it also makes sense that a Nigerian-based publisher like Cassava Republic is one of the ﬁrst in England to publish a book like Arabella. Instead of colouring his own face black, he had used a pink crayon.Verna Wilkins Trinidadian, Verna Wilkins, founder of Tamarind started her publishing company in 1987 after a shocking incident with her own child. He had been asked at school to write a book called “This is Me”. He had drawn a picture of himself on the front cover however instead of colouring his own face black, he had used a pink crayon. Verna asked him why he had done this, to which he replied that he had to colour his face pink because it was a book!When you ask booksellers why there are so few diverse books in their bookshops some will say that they just don’t sell well enough or that white parents are put off by black characters. What are the best diverse books for children and teenagers? Here in Holland, where books are only printed in hardcover and cost around 14 euros, the Princess Arabella books were ﬁrst picked up mainly by librarians and white parents. I started to put a lot of energy in promoting my books through social media where I could meet my black audience and started to visit black hair and beauty conventions. And I’m happy to say it worked. I usually rent a table, fill it with as many books as I can possibly carry and wait for the mums, grandmothers and aunts to ﬂock around. So contrary what the American publishers feared, my books reach their audience via black natural hair! My books are now known to both audiences even though they might purchase the books through different outlets. I get so many positive reactions from black mums and also white mums with mixed race children. They always tell me how happy they are to ﬁnd books that their children can identify with. One of the extra perks is ﬁnding the most endearing pictures of little four-year-olds dressed up as Arabella in my mailbox.In the mean time I’m happy to ﬁnd that Princess Arabella transcends race. Proud Surinamese moms send me pictures of their beautiful dark-skinned four-year-olds dressed up as princess Arabella. And when I visited a predominantly white school a few weeks ago, a little blond girl stood up and said: “Sorry, but I don’t think Arabella is a real princess!” I gasped and thought… here it comes. “Her dress is orange and not pink’, she said. A real princess wears pink!”Children are not colour-blind. Through diverse picture books children will have an opportunity to learn on an unconscious level to feel empathy and identify with others from a different ethnic background to their own. Children need both mirrors and windows. Many children of colour see the world only through windows but they also need mirrors. Other children only see mirrors and they need to see the world through windows.Mylo Freeman’s Princess Arabella Mixes Colours and Princess Arabella’s Birthday (published by Cassava Republic) are both available from the Guardian bookshop. 