As 2016 ushers in one of the worst stock market routs in years, cracks in the tech sector have suddenly widened from mild to serious – and in some cases, potentially fatal. Shares of tech giants from Apple to Alphabet to Netflix took immediate hits when the market opened, and smaller companies like GoPro – down more than 24% in one day – have not recovered.Tech giants stumbleApple, Alphabet, Twitter and Facebook all took immediate hits when the market opened; Twitter was the only one not to quickly recover. Analysts say the embattled social network is troubled not just by user interest reaching a plateau, but by competition from services that offer more and are able to take a bite out of its business model.Apple shares fall after reports of cuts to iPhone 6S and 6S Plus production “The fundamental issue is that Facebook and Snapchat are eating into the news and information business,” Rich Greenfield, analyst with BTIG, told the Guardian. “I think competition is eating into them in the US and making it very hard for them to show growth. It’s hard for internet companies right now.”That remains especially true of publicly traded internet companies; shareholders need to see expansion, rather than the simple ongoing health of a solid enterprise. Or, as Greenfield put it, “Profit is very different than growth.”Retail loses steam over the holidaysWaning consumer interest in gadgets is at least part of the sector’s weakness, though the entire market is taking a beating.Consumer electronics chain Best Buy lost more than 10% immediately at the bell on Thursday on news that weak smartphone sales over the holiday season had cut into the retailer’s most lucrative time of year; the stock had not recovered by noon. The company usually sees a hit when it announces holiday sales, even if the results are good – and this year’s were not.“During the holiday period, domestic revenue declined 0.8%,” admitted Hubert Joly, the company’s CEO. “The domestic decline was primarily driven by the mobile phone category, which was softer than both our expectations and the prior year.” Accordingly, the company’s predictions for a quarter about equal to the previous year had to be revised: the three months including Christmas sales at Best Buy are officially weaker in 2015 than the year before.GoPro collapsesFrom the start of business on 14 January, GoPro, now well below its IPO price from less than two years ago, immediately lost another 15% and was being sued by shareholders before noon. By 10am, law firm Glancy Prongay & Murray filed a class action lawsuit on behalf of shareholders alleging that the much-discussed portable camera company had deceived shareholders about the weak sales of its line of Hero cameras and that subsequent unrealistic predictions had led to the share collapse.Another firm, Johnson & Weaver, was seeking plaintiffs in a news release that said the group “is investigating if GoPro, Inc committed securities violations”.“Johnson & Weaver’s investigation seeks to determine if the offering documents filed with the SEC for the secondary offering contained untrue statements regarding GoPro’s business and prospects,” the lawyers wrote.Netflix swings back and forthTrading of Netflix has been at a high volume: shares of the popular video service have been in decline since July, but the company has many true believers, shareholders among them. Optimism about the future of the format coupled with fears of overvaluation (the stock is far above anyone’s price predictions and has been for years) have fuelled the trading, and investors are skittish generally.“I think Netflix is a momentum stock; people get nervous around quarters but the fundamental shift to on-demand continues,” said Greenfield, ahead of the company’s next earnings call on 19 January.The relative popularity of Netflix’s original series is a matter of much debate, since the company rarely parts with viewership numbers. According to a report in Variety, NBCUniversal’s research chief, Alan Wurtzel, offered data on his competitor’s original shows gleaned from an app on 15,000 phones that logs information about what TV shows are playing within earshot of the phone’s microphone yesterday. In brief, Netflix’s original shows were doing very well, especially Jessica Jones, but there was no information offered on how much repurposed content from cable and broadcast was being shown.Greenfield remains bullish, saying that irrespective of whether or not traditional networks were worried Netflix might eat into their margins, it was still incumbent upon those networks to follow the money. The money trail, he said, leads to Netflix. “It’s a prisoner’s dilemma; content producers are still selling them content. If you make content, your job is to monetize that content.”