With autumn’s mists and mellow fruitfulness come a prevalence of spiders, mainly of the male variety, searching for a female to mate with. While the eight-legged creatures are an awe-inspiring part of nature to many, they are a detestable pest to some – which is where a new shed comes in.The world’s first “spider-proof” shed is designed by a company called Tiger Sheds. With airtight windows and draught-sealed doors, it offers owners a “10-year anti-spider-infestation guarantee” for £2,000. The shed comes in light blue, a colour “scientifically proven” to repel the creatures. As an optional extra, insecticides, peppermint and citrus can be impregnated into the wood, while a “No spiders allowed” sign is supplied as standard, just in case any spiders can read.It may be the most expensive method for keeping spiders away, but it’s not the first. Cedar, tobacco, vinegar, tea tree and eucalyptus are rumoured to repel the creatures, too. In 2009, the Royal Society of Chemistry investigated the myth that spiders are repulsed by the chemicals in fresh conkers. The conclusion? Nope, spiders are not scared of conkers.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Conkers: not a spider solution. Photograph: Carole Ratcliffe/GuardianWitness“There is no research that shows anything like that is a deterrent to spiders,” says Paul Hetherington of the charity Buglife. “There are a few herbs that insects don’t like, but I’m not aware of any that spiders are opposed to.” Since the mint patch in Hetherington’s garden is full of spiderwebs, he is sceptical that peppermint would make much difference – and says there is no proof at all that they don’t like the colour blue.Apart from the classic tumbler method, is there anything people who hate spiders can do to get rid of them? “Short of living in a hermetically sealed box, you can’t not encounter spiders,” says Hetherington. “They reckon there is about a million in the average home.”Spiders might look a bit alien, but they are crucial to the environment we live in. They eat a colossal amount of flies, aphids, wasps and other spiders, creatures that we deem pests as well. “They’re our friends, really, particularly in the garden,” says Hetherington, who thinks the shed is an “utterly ridiculous” idea and worries that insecticides might kill ladybirds and lacewings that need sheds to hibernate in through winter.Luckily, treatment is available for arachnophobes. Spider expert Angela Hale runs a spider phobia course at Drusillas Park in East Sussex and lives with 100 pet spiders. On Saturday, she worked with six people to convince them that the creatures weren’t what they thought. “It worked for every single one,” she says. “The more you know about spiders, the less you’ll fear them – and the more fascinating they’ll become.” In a country with no deadly species, perhaps we should be welcoming them.• This article was amended on 16 September 2015. An earlier version said “draft” where “draught” was meant.