Michael Hext, the seventeen-year-old trombonist, is BBC Television Young Musician of the Year, and a worthy winner. He was the only finalist who consistently projected a full-bodied tone, and though the instrument gave him an obvious advantage in this respect, the onus was firmly on the others to match it.Stephen Hough did himself less than justice with a very small scale Mozart Piano Concerto K449, but intermittently he showed pleasing balance of reliable technique and musicality which had served him so well in earlier stages. Clarinettist Michael Collins, also 16, was rather more stable and full-toned in Finzi’s concerto. The strings of the BBC Northern, doing a fine job for all the finalists under Bryden Thomson, relished the work so much that the solo parts by comparison seemed to lack initiative, but it was still highly enjoyable natural playing.Previous winners on how Young Musician of the Year helped their careers Competition juries are always a butt for the scorn of competitors, critics and audiences, but the choice between these three cannot have been easy. Before the concerto finals, however, they eliminated the two pianists most capable of changing the poor British showing in international competition - one of the reasons for the inception of this competition. These were Jeremy Atkin, still very raw but with some exciting flair, and Paul Coker, whose mastery earned him an equal first prize. In fairness Stephen Hough’s Liszt Sonata, which won him his place above them, was one of the outstanding events, and on that evidence he should have wiped the floor with the other finalists.The absence of violinist Colin Twigg from the list of honours was more surprising. Whatever the reason Caroline Dale, the only girl, was exposed to a fairytale situation which she was in no sense ready to justify. (The absence of the finale of her Elgar concerto, apparently to save time, was itself very suspicious. It lasts about six minutes.) If she has taken any glamorous illusions away with her it will have done her more harm than good. The best thing this competition can do is to make us aware of the room for improvement in our musical culture The nature of the publicity makes it virtually impossible to withhold the award altogether, which might have been the best decision. Humphrey Burton’s introductions and interviews also seemed to have more relevance for the audience ratings, and so threw away a valuable chance to show what criteria are used for assessing musical talent. The “astonishingly high” standards he predicted have only materialised in his imagination. Of course there are mitigating circumstances and half the young players’ battle was to keep their sangfroid in front of blinding lights, itinerant cameras and an unseen jury of millions. However, to go on from these reservations to put a question mark over the fundamental conception of the competition is dangerous. The sort of thinking which jibs at the competition ethic has helped to keep our music making on such a parochial level in the past. We are remarably ready to dismiss as irrelevant things we cannot do well. The best thing this competition can do is to make us aware of the room for improvement in our musical culture. There must be a much broader middle ground of excellence if really outstanding talent is to emerge, and there must be a way of encouraging more positive musicality.It is difficult to see the competition encouraging people to rush out and take up an instrument - they are far more likely to be inspired by seeing a great artist, as Caroline Dale was. But if we are to produce the inspiring personalities, quality must come first and quantity second. So no hearty back-slapping needed, but congratulations to Michael Hext and his fellow finalists, a qualified vote of thanks to the BBC and the RNCM, and a poke in the eye for the state of music teaching in this country.