The tuxedos, the swishy dresses, the loaned jewels, the thousands of glasses of heavily branded champagne handed to stars and guests; and now also, of course, the political soundbites. The Baftas, like all leading film award ceremonies, were once pure escapism – window dressing for the entertainment industry. Yet somehow social campaigning has crept up the agenda. On Sunday, when the biggest names in British and US film gather at the Royal Opera House in London’s Covent Garden, the evening will be freighted with serious questions about the diversity of mainstream show business. This year, the British Academy of Film and Television arts will be judged partly on how it represents its audience in terms of colour, gender and sexual orientation.#OscarsSoMainstream: why have this year's choices snubbed independent cinema? And in one respect at least, Bafta is already set to shame the Oscars. With best film, best actress, best supporting actress and best director nominations for Todd Haynes’s lesbian love story Carol, and best British film, best actress and best actor nominations for Tom Hooper’s transgender drama The Danish Girl, British organisers can justly claim a wider breadth of sexual orientation in London than in Los Angeles in a fortnight’s time.“We are more accommodating here, and Bafta deserves credit,” said Stephen Woolley, who co-produced Carol with his wife, Elizabeth Karlsen, and made Neil Jordan’s The Crying Game, which was nominated for a best picture Oscar in 1992.“Britain always had a groundbreaking film industry – led partly by our television industry – and the Baftas reflect that. We have a liberal tradition and we also make less of a big thing about it.”In Hollywood the Twitter hashtag #OscarsSoWhite returned with a vengeance this year when the nominations were made public. Since then many have amended it to #OscarsSoWhiteAndSoStraight, underlining the fact that, while black actors have been marginalised, films about gay people are also out in the cold. Neither Carol, the acclaimed adaptation of Patricia Highsmith’s novel The Price of Salt, nor The Danish Girl, in which Eddie Redmayne plays transgender pioneer Lili Elbe, received Oscar nominations in the best film and best director categories. While Haynes’s film has had acting nominations, the director was ignored, even though he won recognition from the Directors Guild of America, the Golden Globes and Bafta.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cate Blanchett and Rooney Mara in Carol. Photograph: Everett/Rex ShutterstockThis weekend, Carol’s Oscar-nominated screenwriter, Phyllis Nagy, was “surprised and disappointed”, she told the Observer. “The film obviously must be liked by a fair number of people in the academy if it has six other nominations. It is a bit of a puzzle.”So the 2016 directing Oscar is to go to a straight, white man and the event’s black host, Chris Rock, is expected to refer to the issue in his opening monologue. Woolley is among those who welcome the fact that celebrities are prepared to comment.“It is a good thing stars now speak out and create a discussion. There is nothing worse than a succession of actors coming on stage and saying nothing. They should have a voice,” he said. “At Bafta I was instrumental in persuading Stephen Fry to first present the awards 10 years ago. We have led the way in that respect. And just look at the nominees. You can see it is more diverse. It is a fact.”Woolley also paid tribute to Sir Sidney Poitier, who will be honoured with a Bafta lifetime achievement award, for speaking out about black rights in Hollywood in the 1960s and 70s.Last month, Sir Ian McKellen took a similar stand, revealing the first words of an undelivered acceptance speech he has carried with him to the Oscars twice, marking the fact that he could be the first openly gay man to win. “I’ve had to put it back in my pocket twice,” he said. Conversely, straight actors Tom Hanks, Sean Penn and the late Philip Seymour Hoffman have all won Oscars for portraying gay men.“It’s not just about awards and making sure the ‘right’ people get recognition,” Dame Pippa Harris, the chair of Bafta’s film committee, told the Observer, emphasising a determination that Bafta reflects its audience. “It’s about fostering broad inclusivity in terms of those who enter the industry. It has to be about the diversity of people’s backgrounds, too. In order to remain relevant to the public, diversity is vital – it’s no exaggeration to say the future of our creative industries depends on it.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Carol trailerBut for Sarah Garrett, founder and director of the British LGBT Awards, Bafta voters have not quite proved themselves. Her annual event, for which the nominations are announced on Tuesday, aims to correct a bias in popular culture. “It’ll certainly be interesting to see whether Bafta judges will follow trend and turn a blind eye to the excellent LGBT films that have been released in the past year,” she said. “With the Oscars snubs, you’d think there would be more of an uproar in the LGBT+ community, but we’ve become used to being left out. The Danish Girl was banned in six Arab countries, and the ABC network reportedly requested a censored version of the trailer for Carol, so as far as media acknowledgement of LGBT+ goes, there’s still a lot of catching up to do.”In Britain, where straight actors such as Daniel Day-Lewis, in My Beautiful Laundrette, and Gary Oldman, in Prick Up Your Ears, have also earned plaudits for playing gay or transgender characters, Woolley maintains that audiences accept a wider range of sexual orientation. “We are better at embracing the possibility of there being another way to live, and our television programmes, right back to the Quentin Crisp [biography] The Naked Civil Servant, have shown that,” he said.British cinema has a gay aesthetic, dating from the male kiss in the 1971 film Sunday Bloody Sunday and on through the screen versions of plays such as Another Country, Alan Bennett’s The History Boys, and E M Forster’s confessional novel Maurice. There is an arthouse movement too, where the films of gay directors Derek Jarman and Terence Davies are celebrated, as well as a long-established film interest in the lives once lived in fear of arrest or blackmail, seen in the 1960s films Victim and The Killing of Sister George.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Danish Girl trailerAmerican films Milk, Philadelphia, Brokeback Mountain or The Kids are All Right had mainstream success with gay storylines, but both Nagy and Woolley believe they made compromises to win friends. Their heroes and heroines either end tragically, or turn towards the norms of American family life. “Carol does not end with a suicide or a murder or a get thee to a nunnery or a mental institution scenario,” said Nagy. She believes audiences may well “have to go through another couple of decades of people becoming accustomed to the unaccustomed narrative”.“Carol is a morally ambiguous story and a little bit less conventional than, say, The Kids are All Right. It is not all moving towards a nuclear family set-up,” said Woolley, who is still putting his money where his mouth is, with a new film planned about the life of French bisexual writer Colette, starring Keira Knightley.“Financing these films is still difficult. Carol was in development for 20 years. People kept giving up as the money fell away. There is a self-censorship that happens in the industry before films are even made.”Additional reporting by Benjamin Lee.