You could easily miss the art nouveau front of the Zvezda cinema, squeezed between a hat shop and a bookseller’s in the middle of Belgrade, Serbia. The entrance leads into a long, neon-lit corridor. The box office at the end will sell you a rather faded ticket. There is little decoration. The projection room, its walls painted green and orange, smells strongly of dust and the 1970s. But this is no squat, it is a “liberated cinema”. For the past year, at the instigation of a group of film-makers and students, Belgrade’s oldest cinema, which opened in 1911, has come back to life.Seated in the brown velvet stalls, most of the audience for this showing of Luc Besson’s Léon are still wearing their overcoats, there being no heating. Near the screen a hole in the ceiling-plaster reveals bare lath. “The roof leaks,” says economist and lead-occupant Veljko Lopicic. “We could do with €20,000 to €30,000 [$22,000 to $33,000] to refurbish the place, but no one wants to invest because nobody knows what may happen in the future.”The Zvezda is embroiled in a legal tangle. Originally named the Koloseum, the communist Yugoslav regime nationalised the venue and gave it its present name, which means “Star”.In 2007 a Serbian businessman purchased 14 theatres, including the Zvezda, which belonged to Beograd Film. Within a year they were all closed; six were sold to foreign investors for a vast profit. They were converted into restaurants or casinos without any consultation of the workforce, which held a minority stake in the organisation. The vendor encountered difficulties and had to mortgage several of the cinemas, including the Zvezda.The case is typical of the hasty privatisation schemes of the 2000s, a time when unscrupulous investors bought up manufacturing firms for a song, stripped them of their assets and made massive profits selling them off in bits. There were 679 cinemas in the Federal Republic of Serbia in 1968, but only 88 in 2012.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Zvezda cinema’s distinctive facade, wedged between a hat shop and a bookseller’s in central Belgrade. Photograph: Kasia Nowak/AlamyOn 21 November 2014 a group of 200 people took possession of the Zvezda. “We’re here and the cinema is ours,” they proclaimed, refusing to live any longer in a country where the arts are luxury goods. A year later they are still there, showing two programmes a day.The choice of material is varied, ranging from American blockbusters to Yugoslav favourites. Saturdays are set aside for screening student productions. “In Serbia many people can barely get by on what they earn. They can’t afford to go to the pictures. Here for 100 dinars [under $1] they can see a film, with free popcorn,” Lopicic explains.Students account for much of the audience, but the venue also attracts film buffs of all ages and pensioners living in the neighbourhood.Several big names have voiced their support for the venture. Film director Michel Gondry has produced a short animation film on the subject. The Greek prime minister Alexis Tsipras dropped in during an official visit to Belgrade in December 2014.Serbian film director Mina Djukic believes occupying the cinema is also a means of highlighting the predicament of independent films in Serbia. “Serbian directors have nowhere to screen art films,” she says. “For the time being the authorities ignore our existence so we’re trying to use this vacuum to make a place to create and share our work.”On the screen, Léon, played by Jean Reno, breathes his last, but not before lobbing a last grenade.The lights come on and the hall empties. “This cinema is more a metaphor of our combat than an issue of ownership,” Djukic adds. “It’s part of our cultural heritage, which is being left to decay.”This article appeared in Guardian Weekly, which incorporates material from Le Monde