The term “hipster” is bandied about so much in the modern vernacular that it, much like the word “literally”, has literally lost all meaning. In the 90s, being a hipster entailed wearing horn-rimmed glasses and sweaters while listening to Pavement. In the 90s, hipsters looked like hipsters. But now everyone, up to and including people who were born in 1995, dresses like they attended Lollapalooza in 1995. If everyone is a hipster now, is anyone a hipster?10 things South Park has taught us about gentrification The fact that hipsters may no longer exist, however, doesn’t stop the powers that be from creating content marketed toward them. And by “them”, I mean the current working definition of hipster: urban millennials who haven’t figured “it” out yet.Emboldened by the success of Girls and Broad City, television has recently seen a rash of programs focused on the lives of such characters: Netflix’s Love, FXX’s You’re the Worst and HBO’s Insecure at the high end, and MTV’s impressively mediocre Mary + Jane (which plays as little more than Broad City fan fiction) at the low. The latest show attempting to court the hipster demographic is Search Party, TBS’s dramedy about narcissistic New Yorkers who become fascinated with the disappearance of a college acquaintance.Most of the action takes place at a series of brunches and rooftop parties riddled with interchangeably self-absorbed conversations. The show’s protagonist, Dory (played by Alia Shawkat, who views everything through eyes both doe and bagged), lives with her bespectacled manchild boyfriend Drew (John Reynolds); Drew plays the ukulele, makes her microwave his meals and carries a teal Herschel backpack. Her friends Portia (Meredith Hagner) and Elliott (John Early) bitch and brunch, in that order.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Dory, as befits any hipster protagonist, is going through an existential crisis. “Everyone can tell me what I’m bad at,” she laments, “but no one can tell me what I’m good at.” Her lack of direction defines her, driving her to wander through life in a trancelike state. The more she becomes obsessed with the disappearance of her college acquaintance, however, the more she becomes engaged with the world.“I think you’ve decided that this matters to you because you have nothing else,” her pragmatic ex-boyfriend Julian (Brandon Michael Hall), the show’s only bastion of reason, tells her. And, indeed, he’s right. In an attempt to milk the acquaintance’s disappearance into personal sympathy, Dory and her friends all claim to have been closer with her than they actually were; their desire to make her loss somehow about them, and to use her potential death as the source of brunch-time gossip, is a perverse attempt to add excitement to their hip yet banal lives. The juxtaposition of everyone’s self-absorption with the fact that a woman is in danger is appealing, adding gravity to the levity. The show, at times, plays like a far less dry version of Law and Order. With the exception of Dory and Julian, the only nuanced characters, everyone in the Search Party universe appears more as a caricature than a human being. Their self-obsessed one-dimensionality works with the popular assumption that millennials are self-obsessed, one-dimensional, work ethic-deprived meme consumers. Which is the entire premise of CBS’s The Great Indoors, another new show featuring hipster protagonists.The Great Indoors, a “comedy” I didn’t know existed prior to writing this because I do not watch CBS because I did not vote for Donald Trump, milks the idea of hipsters being ego-driven cyphers for multi-camera laughs. Its protagonist, Jack (Joel McHale), an aging Gen X journalist, finds himself thrown into the world of modern content creation when he’s brought onboard to save the sinking ship of the (no longer in print) publication where he made his name. Having to deal with the constraints of PC culture, the presence of emotional service animals and the existence of podcasts about podcasts is simply too much for him to bear.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The millennials in The Great Indoors. Photograph: Michael Yarish/CBS“Young adults today are a very delicate group,” an HR woman tells him after he makes a twentysomething co-worker cry. “We offer an entire class on how to deal with them.” “Oh, is the class called ‘I was born in the 90s, waah’?” Jack retorts. Cue laugh track.Mike Gibbons, the show’s creator, is not a hipster. He is, rather, a middle-aged white male who has been writing for late-night television for decades and, one would assume, loathes and fears the younger generation, whose mere existence is rapidly rendering him obsolete. The show views millennials through a wholly judgmental lens; in one scene, a bartender asks Jack, “How was work?” “Awful,” Jack replies. “I hurt a millennial’s feelings.” “When are their feelings not hurt?” the bartender asks, causing a bearded twentysomething sitting at the bar to look up aggrieved, and the laugh track to once again be engaged.The Great Indoors review – millennial-bashing sitcom is an unfunny fail The Great Indoors fails because its inherent bitterness eats itself from the inside. It is written about hipsters, not for them, and from the viewpoint of someone contemptuously examining them as an alien lifeform. Were one to make a show that shits on, say, minorities as thoroughly as The Great Indoors shits on millennials, the ACLU would surely get involved. Search Party, while not perfect by any stretch of the imagination, at least has a firm grip on the lives of its audience, and the absurdity of the modern world they inhabit.Dory finds a clue to her acquaintance’s disappearance by watching a Facebook video of her doing the Ice Bucket Challenge. “I’ve been told to announce some hashtags for tonight’s vigil,” says the grieving father of the missing girl. “Pound sign, Come Home Chantal, and pound sign, I Am Chantal.” Her college a cappella group sings a modified version of Kelly Clarkson’s Since U Been Gone while someone in the crowd films it on their iPhone. These and other touches prove the writer is in on the joke and isn’t just hamfistedly throwing buzzwords into a blender.TBS has, of late, been going through a personality crisis – Search Party is the latest of its attempts to rebrand itself as a hip network. It ain’t your granddaddy’s TBS, as evidenced by Search Party’s copious droppings of bleeped out f-bombs and references to ejaculate; TBS no longer has the desire to be all things to all people, and has catered its content to reflect it. The network even dropped all episodes of Search Party in one go, to reflect contemporary binge-watching culture. CBS, on the other hand, is quite the opposite. It’s America’s most watched network for a reason – it provides the least offensive material possible to appeal to the widest demographic possible (assuming, of course, you don’t find the pornographic violence of CSI offensive). Despite its overwhelming mediocrity, The Great Indoors has been performing shockingly well, averaging around eight million viewers in the 18-49 year old demo per airing. The fact that it follows The Big Bang Theory is the presumed cause of this.Hipsters may or may not exist, but millennials do. For shows about them to succeed, they need to be acknowledged as such. “Authenticity” is another word that’s been overused to the point of meaninglessness, but it’s a necessity if you want them to actually engage with programming created about them.