Calling all Elton John fans! We’ve got a double treat to kick off this week’s viral video countdown. The Lion King composer slipped into St Pancras train station in London last week to treat surprised commuters to a medley of tunes and to leave a Yamaha piano for the public to play. The station already has two pianos, placed as part of the Street Pianos scheme, which are regularly used and enjoyed. Sir Elton also popped up on the Late Late Show with James Corden and helped his host navigate Los Angeles on a rainy day while the two sang some of his hits, including Don’t Let the Sun Go Down On Me.Pirates of the Caribbean star Johnny Depp has never shied away from an acting challenge, whether it be Willy Wonka in Charlie and the Chocolate Factory or Sweeney Todd: the Demon Barber of Fleet Street. However he has to wear the worst wig in the business to play Donald Trump in The Art of the Deal. Our other tasters this week are Matt Damon’s return as Jason Bourne and season four of House of Cards. Roll on 4 March … Our musical treats come courtesy of Beyoncé and Bruno Mars who performed with Coldplay at half time in the Super Bowl and Ewan McGregor’s tribute version of Heroes for David Bowie. Maid of honour Rachel Winterbottom considered singing her speech at the wedding of her sister Hayley and Paul O’Brien but decided to rap her words to the tune of Ice Ice Baby instead. Doctor Who fans will love the Star Wars treatment given to a trailer for the 2005 episode The Tardis Awakens. Rose Tyler becomes a Rey-style figure who teams up with a mysterious space traveller. Watch this space …    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Johnny Depp as Donald Trump1) Elton John performs at St Pancras LondonPiano Man2) Elton John Carpool KaraokeLost in Los Angeles 3) Funny Or Die Presents Donald Trump’s The Art of the Deal: The Movie TrailerDepp does Trump4) Super Bowl 50 Halftime Show - Bruno Mars & BeyoncéSmashing it5) Jason Bourne Official Super Bowl TV Spot (2016) - Matt Damon Movie HDBourne fighter6) Doctor Who Wars: The Tardis Awakens trailerTime and force be with you7) House of Cards - Season 4 - Official Trailer - Netflix [UK & Ireland]Let’s be Frank8) Sophina DeJesus UCLA Floor 2016 vs Utah 9.925Hip hop tumbler9) Maid of honour raps her speech to Ice Ice Baby at her sister’s wedding! N’ice one10) Ewan McGregor sings Heroes in tribute to David Bowie at Roxy Theater in Los Angeles Farewell to his hero