Snapshot: Val, me and a trip to meet Tim RiceTim Rice has a lot to answer for. In 1978 it was a long way from Riverside middle school in Suffolk to Trafalgar Square. As part of music, we fourth years had to do a talk on any aspect that we loved. I adored rock operas so, being an enterprising and rather cheeky 13-year-old, I wrote to the address on my Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat album asking for a chat with the lyricist for my speech. Failing that, please could they send me some information? By return of post, I was flabbergasted to receive a letter asking me to confirm a date in April because “Mr Rice is travelling down especially from the country for your interview.”Our music teacher, Mr Atfield, was in a frenzy of excitement. As Joseph began as a commission for a school, he was convinced that we might be next. I was terrified. I’d never been to London and there was no chance that my widowed mum would take me. As far as she was concerned, I might as well have won a ticket to the moon. No one in my family had ever been to our capital city. So it was decided that the domestic science teacher, Miss Oldman, would accompany me and my best friend, Jane.Wide-eyed and intimidated, we made our way to an office on Wardour Street, Soho, where a smiling secretary welcomed us. Refusing her offer of a drink, we sat with two much older teenage girls who were working on a project about Joseph. Together we whispered about how nervous we were. They seemed impressed that I’d brought along my brother’s cassette recording machine, sneaked from his bedroom. Then, heavy footsteps and a deep voice in the corridor outside; somehow we suppressed our squeals. A giant of a man, stooping under the doorway, seemed to fill the room. Suddenly we were shaking hands with Tim Rice. Apparently unfazed by us kids, my memory is of a lovely gentleman who answered our questions patiently and then signed our LPs.Afterwards, with time to spare before heading home, Miss Oldman took us to Trafalgar Square. Horrid pigeons clawing at my hair failed to ruin an unforgettable day.Mum treasured this photograph; for her it was a flavour of another world. My brother was furious when he found out I’d used one of his precious blank cassettes. I still have the original invitation from that secretary – thank you, Valerie Jefferys!Gill PowellPlaylist: The only one of Mum’s songs I can listen to For a Dancer by Jackson Browne“I don’t remember losing track of you / You were always dancing in and out of view”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest My mum always thought this song was beautiful, a poignant meditation on coming to terms with death. The album it came from, Late for the Sky, sat with all the other 70s records that seemed to me to be vivid and romantic insights into my parents’ hippie youth – I spent hours as a child admiring the artwork on the covers.Among these vibrant records sat a signed copy of Help! by the Beatles which I planned to sell in the future to make my fortune – until I was told it had been signed not by the Fab Four but by my parents under the influence of an unspecified psychotropic substance.My mum was always singing as I was growing up. Nonsense songs, nursery rhymes, musicals. She taught me how joyful singing can be, how much fun and games can be had by bursting into song at any moment. She loved it when I was in the school orchestra and musical, and sent me to piano lessons and sang with me in a choir.Throughout the 80s and 90s, Mum explored her spirituality with me in tow, following many gurus and teachers, each more bizarre than the last. She began listening to more esoteric, devotional music, sometimes singing in communes beneath a picture of her Indian guru while wearing his uniform of the colours of the sun.As Mum’s alcoholism slowly took its vice-like grip, her interest in spirituality, death and music disappeared. Music that provoked any sort of emotion led, along with pretty much anything else, to yet another downward spiral of drink and misery. My own children did not hear her sing the silly songs that had characterised so much of my own childhood.Her addiction ultimately took her from me and in the months since her death I have been approaching music with caution; never playing or singing it, rarely listening to it – with the exception of For a Dancer. We played it at her funeral and I listen to it most days to absorb its beauty and to feel close to her again. Mum wasn’t perfect; neither am I. But as a contemplation of death, this song comes pretty close.Zoe HigginsWe love to eat: Margo Maser’s salmon patéIngredients420g tin salmon225g cream cheese1 tbsp lemon juice2 tsp grated onion1 tsp horseradish¼ tsp saltI miss the food of the 50s and 60s. I used to think of it as the food of my era. It was only later that I could see it was a hangover from an earlier time. They were the meals my mother learned to cook when she was first married.We were still eating casseroles in the 1970s. They were always a mystery. Off came the lid and there was celery, carrots, mince. The combinations were infinite. There was always at least one ingredient from a tin. It took me ages to learn you could eat rice on its own. I always thought of rice as tiny white boats bobbing in a sea of stew.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Margo Maser’s salmon paté.We’d ended up, one marriage later, in suburbia. The rules were hard to learn. The distinctions by religion, skin, holiday, club. My older brother and I felt so lucky on this beautiful street. But we were told we were disadvantaged. There was the (unspoken) divorce, the broken home. And worst of all: our mother worked full-time.It was unlikely, the afternoon Margo Maser sat next to my mother on our front step. They were not friends. My mother was home after an appendectomy. The sun was shining. They each carried their own coffee cup: Margo’s was always dark brown. That way you couldn’t see the gin.She was the most censorious of the local wives, and famed among her culinary bests for her salmon paté. The women hosted one another all the time, but some recipes they kept back. Several had insisted Margo tell them how to make it. But she never revealed its little inflections.So why, that day, did Margo choose my mother of all people to share it with? Perhaps it was a gesture of sympathy. Not just twice-married but lacking internal organs. Maybe the appendix prompted thoughts of paté. She was drunk certainly, there was hilarity. I think the special paté recipe was their secret bond: the woman known for it, and the one who was never around to make it.Francesco ScordamagliaWe’d love to hear your storiesWe will pay £25 for every Letter to, Playlist, Snapshot or We Love to Eat we publish. Write to Family Life, The Guardian, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU or email family@theguardian.com. Please include your address and phone number.