Hometown: Halifax.The lineup: Sidonie B Hand-Halford (drums), Esmé Dee Hand-Halford (bass, vocals), Henry Carlyle Wade (guitar, vocals). The background: The Orielles are an indie band. But not in the derogatory “landfill” sense. They’re reclaiming the word, reminding us that “indie” used to be something to aspire to. In this, they’re quite noughties: they do the girl-group-go-garage-rock thing that was de rigueur a few years back, especially in Brooklyn, and there’s a chillwave glaze and surf-pop shimmer over some of their tracks. But they’re also quintessentially 80s indie. Their shambling jangles can be reminiscent of the maligned C86 scene but, on their more recent tracks, there is a rhythmic propulsion that marks them out as progeny of an earlier NME cassette compilation of alternative music: namely, Dancin’ Master, from 1981, which evinced the then-radical shift towards dub, disco and funk. At one point in our interview with drummer Sid, she namechecks as an Orielles favourite the Housemartins – arguably the whitest band in indie history – only to then cite as an influence Orange Juice, whose assimilation of black music elements is a matter of record. If it sounds as though the Orielles are steeped in indie of all flavours and eras, that’s possibly because they grew up with it: Sid and her kid sister Esmé’s father used to be in the Train Set, a Crewe band whose name suited the cutie aesthetic of Talulah Gosh et al, though the noise they made was more at the noir end of things, with shades of the Bunnymen, Joy Division and the Smiths. “He looks dead cool,” Sid says of seeing her dad in 80s-vintage photos, all floppy fringe and regulation indie-wear (Levi’s, DMs). “You can see the similarities with the fashion and hair [of today]. The quiffs are coming round again. It’s inspiring to see him at the age we are now.”Sid is 21 and in the third year of a media and film studies course at the University of Liverpool (favourite movie: Eraserhead). Esmé and Henry, respectively 18 and 17, are at college in Halifax. They met at a party a few years back and within 24 hours had formed the band, coming up with the name as a homage to girl group the Shirelles. Orielles songs are likely to be inspired by cinema or TV. The title of their latest single, Sugar Tastes Like Salt, is a line from Quentin Tarantino’s Death Proof. “We like the way it subverted the conventional violence of Hollywood films,” Sid says. “Women get their comeuppance on the male protagonists.” Then there’s Joey Says We Got It, the title this time a reference to Friends. It is “about not wanting to follow the convention of the typical teenager”. The band defy indie-pop logic by not making their songs about romance. “We like to write about abstract things, not relationships and the usual things,” says Sid.The Orielles have signed to Heavenly: someone could probably successfully argue that they’re at the midpoint between the Manics and Saint Etienne. The label signed them partly because “they liked our DIY aesthetic – we design all our own artwork and help with the video-making,” Sid explains. It didn’t do any harm that their music is so fine. The eight-minute Sugar Tastes Like Salt sees the band stretching and spacing out: it’s more ESG and ACR than Bogshed and the Shrubs, with unison vocals from Esme and Henry over scything guitars and spatial funkadelia. Twin Freaks, from their 2016 debut EP Jobin, is equal parts Velvets and Velvelettes. Or like Lana Del Ray if she was from a grim northern town and fronted a shambling band. According to the drummer, they’ve already achieved greatness. “The other day, we got followed on Twitter by Stephen Pastel, which is a huge deal for us because we’re massively into the Pastels.” Her ambitions for the Orielles are modest: “To get an album out soon, and play more overseas shows.” And global domination? “Yeah,” she says, uncertainly. The buzz: “Dreamy surf-pop.”The truth: They make us nostalgic for the days when we featured bands in this column that made us nostalgic. Most likely to: Shack up. Least likely to: Get down. What to buy: Sugar Tastes Like Salt is out now on Heavenly. File next to: Glasvegas, Vivian Girls, Crystal Stilts, Best Coast.Link: facebook.com/theoriellesOnes to watch: Bokito, Jade Jackson, Manast LL, Radiator King, Idles.