He once told Terry Wogan he preferred a cup of tea to sex, but this week in 1986 he was convicted of possession of heroin. Who was he?   George Michael    David Bowie    Boy George "He has manfully faced up to this drug problem and has helped the police in their inquiries," his lawyer said.    Phil Collins This week in 2000, which British band fled the stage 30 minutes into their show at a Swiss festival after suffering a rain of bottles and coins?   Arctic Monkeys    Blur    U2    Oasis Liam Gallagher had reportedly begun insulting the audience after some of them began chanting Robbie Williams’ name. On 25 July 1980, AC/DC released their first album with their new singer, Brian Johnson. In which south London road did his predecessor, Bon Scott, die?   Overhill Road Outside No 67, to be precise.    Underhill Road    Roundhill Road    Highway to Hell This week in 1992, Michael Jackson sued which British newspaper over photos and an article that said he was left with a "scar face" after countless plastic surgery operations?   The Daily Mail    The Daily Express    The Daily Mirror  The case was later settled out of court. Clearly, Michael Jackson never had any cosmetic surgery. Ever. Obviously.    The Sun Prince Charles and Lady Diana Spencer got married on 29 July 1981. Of which pub rock band was she reportedly a big fan?   Eddie and the Hot Rods    Kilburn and the High Roads    The Kursaal Flyers    Dr Feelgood As well as being reported at the time, the story of her going to see the band was repeated in the film Oil City Confidential The first Castle Donington Monsters of Rock festival was held on 26 July 1980. Headliners Rainbow surprised the metal hordes by performing a Carole King song – but which one?   I Feel the Earth Move    Will You Love Me Tomorrow? Singer Graham Bonnet was much more of a pop singer than his predecessor, Ronnie James Dio. He even had short hair, which infuriated bandleader Ritchie Blackmore.    The Loco-Motion    It’s Too Late The last ever edition of Top of the Pops was recorded on 26 July 2006. Which artist was No 1 at the time?   Sandi Thom    Rhianna    Lily Allen    McFly Their cover of Queen’s Don’t Stop Me Now had gone straight in at No 1. On 28 July 1980, the Boomtown Rats went to No 1 with I Don’t Like Mondays. Last week Bob Geldof insulted the crowd at an Essex festival, but what was his complaint about them?   “Brentwood, you are wearing wall to wall fucking Primark … When you come to a rock’n’roll festival you dress for a rock’n’roll festival.” Geldof pointed out that he, by contrast, was wearing an imitation snakeskin suit.    “You never gave any money to Live Aid, you chavvy sods.”    “The Boomtown Rats support Millwall, and we’ll take you on any time, you West Ham bastards.”    “Stop going to the bar when we play new songs, you wankers!” Gram Parsons left the Byrds on 29 July 1968, on the eve of a South African tour. Why?   Because Roger McGuinn told him there were wild lions roaming the streets of Johannesburg.    Because Keith Richards, the day before the Byrds were due to fly, explained to Parsons about the existence of apartheid.  Many have suggested the real reason was that Parsons wanted to spend more time hanging around with the Stones.    Because South Africa employed the imperial measurement system and insisted Parsons change his first name to Ounce.    Because he was afraid of flying. On 30 July 2006, Attitude published its list of the top 10 gay albums of all time. What was its No 1?   Kylie Minogue – Light Years    Frankie Goes to Hollywood – Welcome to the Pleasuredome    Antony and the Johnsons – I Am a Bird Now    Scissor Sisters – Sister Scissors  Imagine Scissor Sisters being No 1 in anything now. Different times. You got…Challenge your friendsSubmit answers