FictionAll That Man Is by David SzalayDavid Szalay’s latest novel is a portrait of modern-day masculinity, introducing us to nine men, each at a different stage in life. From a 17-year-old student InterRailing across Europe to a suicidal billionaire on his yacht in the Mediterranean, Szalay’s characters grapple with what it means to be alive, here and now.Writing in the Observer, William Skidelsky describes Szalay as “one of the best fortysomething writers we have” yet he feels that All That Man Is might be “more short story collection than novel (despite being marketed as the latter)”. In the Guardian, Edward Docx agrees, describing Szalay’s writing as “virtuosic” and urging us to read a collection of short stories that is “of the highest standard among younger British authors that I’ve come across”.Last year, All That Man Is was shortlisted for the Booker, won the Gordon Burn Prize and was selected as one of the Guardian’s best books of 2016. “I can’t stop thinking about it,” wrote Alan Hollinghurst: “The magic is that the stories prove not to be unrelated, but form a mysteriously resonating whole”.Do Not Say We Have Nothing by Madeleine ThienAnother novel shortlisted for last year’s Booker was Madeleine Thien’s epic third novel. Spanning 60 years of Chinese history, it tells a moving story of the families of two classical musicians. In her review for the Guardian, Isabel Hilton described the book as an “extraordinary evocation of the 20th-century tragedy of China”. From the devastating impacts of the Cultural Revolution – where many musicians were tortured – to the Tiananmen Square massacre, Thien takes Chinese history and, in Hilton’s words, “weaves it into a vivid, magisterial novel”. Do Not Say We Have Nothing bears witness to the turbulence of Chinese history, and was described as “courageous and profound” by Lettie Kennedy in the Observer. The Lauras by Sara TaylorThe Lauras takes us on a road trip across America with 13-year-old Alex and her “Ma”. Reviewing the book for the Observer, Hannah Beckerman described it as an “elegiac and beautifully observed second novel” containing “the kind of sentences that make you pause and read a second time: ‘We were caught on the thin, hungry edge of the morning before the sun sliced itself open on the horizon and bled out across the sky’.” Sara Taylor’s first novel, The Shore, was longlisted for the Bailey’s prize and shortlisted for the Guardian first book award. According to Helen Dunmore, writing for the Guardian, “The Lauras is a fine achievement, engrossing, original and eloquent, and Taylor has more than fulfilled the promise of The Shore.” Themes such as gender and identity loom large in this lyrical novel, but perhaps the most prominent theme is the bond between mother and child. A moving story of family, struggle and adventure, The Lauras was chosen as one of the Guardian’s best books of 2016 by Ali Smith.Heroes of the Frontier by Dave Eggers  From one family road trip to another, Heroes of the Frontier is the latest novel from Dave Eggers, bestselling author of The Circle. Newly published in softback, this hilarious misadventure through America tells the story of Josie, a woman travelling to Alaska with her children in tow.In his review for the Guardian, Marcel Theroux describes Josie as an “alluring combination of Walt Whitman, Bridget Jones and an angry standup comedian”, a woman “seduced by the hope of escape”. In Theroux’s words, she’s a character “whose hopes and struggle will strike a chord with anyone who has tried to balance the contradictions of parenthood … as well as anyone who has flirted with the possibility of an entirely fresh start”. Writing in the Guardian, Alex Preston found Heroes of the Frontier to be “an unlikely state of the nation novel” where the utopian promise of Alaska is rendered in “stirring, lustrous prose”. Although he feels the novel “won’t please everyone”, Preston concludes: “Heroes of the Frontier acts on the reader like a breath of Alaskan air, cleansing the spirit and lifting the heart.”Non-fictionHomo Deus by Yuval Noah HarariYuval Noah Harari’s blockbuster bestseller, Sapiens, was breathtaking in scope, exploring the last 75,000 years of human history. Sapiens showed us where we came from, while its much-awaited sequel, Homo Deus, paints a chilling picture of where we’re going: a future where machines and algorithms are more valuable than humans. Reviewing Homo Deus in the Guardian, David Runciman deemed it a “very intelligent book” envisioning how human nature will change, as intelligence is uncoupled from consciousness. In Runciman’s words, it’s a “quirky and cool book, with a sliver of ice at its heart”.  Observer columnist John Naughton was equally impressed, describing it as “a remarkable book, full of insights and reinterpretations of what we thought we knew about ourselves and our history”. Perhaps Harari’s most impressive trait as a writer is his ability to see the big picture in an increasingly fragmented world. In Naughton’s words: “One measure of Harari’s achievement is that one has to look a long way back – to 1934, in fact, the year when Lewis Mumford’s Technics and Civilisation was published – for a book with comparable ambition and scope. Not bad for a young historian.”A Very English Scandal by John PrestonA Very English Scandal is the shocking true story of the first British politician to stand trial for murder. Set in the late 1960s – when male homosexuality had just been legalised – John Preston’s book focuses on the two lives of Jeremy Thorpe, leader of the Liberal party. As Chris Mullin explains in his review for the Guardian, there were two sides to Thorpe’s character: the “urbane, amusing, self-confident public figure” and the “repressed homosexual … up to his neck in subterfuge and intrigue and embroiled in a conspiracy to murder”. A Very English Scandal reveals Thorpe’s attempts to conceal his sexuality, including an elaborate plan to silence his lover, Norman Scott, with the help of fellow politicians. Mullin notes that while Preston’s book is by no means the first on the Thorpe affair, it’s “probably the most forensic, elegantly written and compelling account of one of the 20th century’s great political scandals”.Lenin on the Train by Catherine Merridale Catherine Merridale’s Lenin on the Train explores the Russian revolutionary’s journey out of exile to seize power in 1917. In the book, Merridale retraces Lenin’s week-long journey on a “sealed train” from Zurich – where he had been living in exile – across war-torn Germany, Sweden, Finland and, finally, Russia, a country he hadn’t seen for nearly 20 years. Reviewing Lenin on the Train for the Guardian, Nigel Jones praised the way that Merridale adds “a novelist’s readability and a fertile imagination” to the story of Lenin’s journey. In Jones’s view, the author too often adopts a “romantic admiration” for the Bolshevik leader’s strength of mind and “steely personality”. Nevertheless, Merridale’s retracing of “Lenin’s slow and halting odyssey” shows us where the journey really ended: “in a tragic coda, she lists the fates of many of those who travelled with him on the train: they were tortured, shot, imprisoned, exiled, or simply disappeared into the all-consuming night of Stalin’s gulag. That was the ultimate destination of Lenin’s train”.The Descent of Man by Grayson Perry  Grayson Perry’s The Descent of Man divided the critics. Writing in the Observer, author Matt Haig described it as “a breeze of a read, and one that makes you see our male-manufactured world a little differently”. Another author, Tessa Hadley, was more equivocal about Perry’s thoughts on masculinity and gender inequality: “I can’t make up my mind quite what I think about this book”, she wrote in her review for the Guardian. In recent years, Perry has become one of Britain’s best-known artists, winning the Turner prize in 2003, delivering his popular Reith lectures, and presenting three television series including his latest, All Man, on which this book frequently draws. According to Hadley, Perry – a man who often wears women’s clothes – “embodies the possibility of radical cultural change” yet his interrogations are sometimes “blunt, broad, even foolish”. Haig takes a different tack: “The book is written clearly and accessibly, and is so natural you can almost hear the sound of Grayson Perry’s voice in your head as you read.” The reviews may have been mixed, but the critics agree that this is an accessible book on an important subject. One to read for yourself, perhaps.All of the books featured are part of the Guardian Bookshop’s offer, 2 new paperbacks for £12.99. To browse the full list and save up to 20% on RRP visit the Guardian Bookshop 