The Hairy Bikers’ Pubs That Built Britain6.30pm, BBC2The great British boozer is the focus for this new daily series focusing on local history. Si King and Dave Myers have been charged with uncovering tales from the historic hostelries of Albion, and those establishments are forthcoming – revealing centuries of commotion in the process. Tonight’s opening episode takes a look at pubs frequented by participants in the Battle of Marston Moor, the bloodiest battle of the English civil war. Mark Gibbings-JonesIsis and the Missing Treasures: Channel 4 Dispatches8pm, Channel 4Death cultists Islamic State don’t always destroy priceless antiquities. When it suits them, they sell them instead. And while we must be relieved that these items aren’t lost to the world, it’s easy to imagine how the proceeds of the sales are used. Simon Cox’s film explores the morally bankrupt but sadly lucrative trade in looted booty, and his trail leads him to the heart of London. Can this grim trade ever be adequately policed? Phil Harrison Peter Kay’s Comedy Shuffle9pm, BBC1PK max: with the double whammy of Car Share and Cradle to Grave, 2015 was a big year for the creator of Phoenix Nights. Here’s an extensive and (vitally) channel-neutral retrospective of Kay’s career, hosted by the man himself. The net is cast widely enough to include chatshow appearances and charity music videos, and with five more episodes to come, it might even dig all the way back to his often forgotten and brief stint hosting The Big Breakfast in 1998. Graeme VirtueThe People v OJ Simpson: American Crime Story9pm, BBC2This sleeper hit began as an amusing diversion and gradually gripped. The series finale aces the test of making a known outcome tense, as the closing speeches arrive and a verdict is reached. Aside from the odd naughty crash-zoom, though, this is less a climactic circus and more a sadly pensive comedown, focused on the tired protagonists’ reaction to it all being over. The lingering sense of one more injustice added to a tangle of wrongs is elegantly conveyed. Jack SealeI Want My Wife Back9.30pm, BBC1New midlife crisis-based farce, full of cliches but nevertheless entertaining thanks to a fine cast including Ben Miller and Caroline Catz. Workaholic Murray (Miller) has neglected his wife Bex (Catz) for too long so she decides to leave him just as he’s planning her surprise 40th. His secretary is, of course, hopelessly in love with him and he’s oblivious. The couple, meanwhile, are forced to keep up appearances as their marriage crumbles, which makes for an interesting opener. Hannah VerdierArtists in Love8pm, Sky ArtsThis new series exploring the romantic endeavours of creative visionaries starts with an insight into Pablo Picasso’s relationship with Dora Maar, a fellow artist whom he met in 1930s Paris. Their relationship was tumultuous, as this somewhat overwrought account explains. It’s intriguing stuff although, as with a lot of arts-themed programming, it does occasionally feel as if you’re having an entire Wikipedia entry stuffed into your brain without sufficient context. Hannah Jane DaviesVinyl9pm, Sky AtlanticLast in a series that has drawn not always flattering comparisons with Kill Your Friends and Rock Follies, and whose recreations of figures such as Robert Plant and David Bowie have rendered it compulsive viewing for reasons not necessarily intended by the makers. Tonight, as Richie prepares to launch the Alibi label, an embittered Zak hatches a plan to bring him down. Meanwhile, Nasty Bits face their biggest gig yet – but will frontman Kip screw it up? David StubbsFILM, Bullhead, (Michaël R Roskam, 2011) 1am, Film4Writer-director Roskam’s powerful debut is a gruelling thriller set in bleak Flemish-Belgian countryside, where a cop investigating trade in illegal animal growth hormones has been murdered. An undercover unit delves into this closed community, while looming uncontrollably is the terrifyingly violent, steroid-stuffed farmer and enforcer “Bullhead” (the horribly plausible Matthias Schoenaerts). Paul HowlettTV SPORTSnooker: The World Championship 10am, BBC2More first-round coverage, with five-time champion Ronnie O’Sullivan among those in action.Indian Premier League Cricket: Sunrisers Hyderabad v Mumbai Indians 3pm, Sky Sports 2The Twenty20 competition continues at Hyderabad’s Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium.Premier League Football: Stoke v Tottenham 7pm, Sky Sports 1Can Spurs close the gap on leaders Leicester?