While my son Ben and I were compiling our 2014 anthology, Poems That Make Grown Men Cry, we already knew we wanted to follow it up with a sister volume for women. But how would the male book fare? Would any publisher be interested in a sequel? When it received the warmest of welcomes, even basking awhile in the bestseller lists, we knew we had liftoff.It even seemed logical that, yes, a father-and-son team could co-edit a book by women about women for… no, not just women, but anyone to read. Anyone, that is, who is interested in the human condition as uniquely observed and distilled by poetry.The male title had been deliberately provocative, if leavened (or so we liked to think) by a hint of self-satire. Clearly, it challenged the hoary stereotype that grown men don’t cry – or aren’t supposed to – whether in private or in public. Its built-in argument was that men should these days be much more open about their emotions than in the bygone, stiff-upper-lip days of empire. So we were delighted when this proved the main topic of discussion in numerous media and festival interviews, apparently finding approving echoes around the nation.For all my alternative suggestions, Ben insisted that the female title had to repeat the same formula. I was more concerned about the currency of the phrase “grown women” than the dim, uncomprehending charges of sexism that had in some quarters greeted the first book – reeking, to me, of an all too familiar sense-of-humour failure. Somali poet Warsan Shire’s Home strikes a poignant note during Europe’s long, agonising refugee crisis “Good, it’s working!” thought Ben when some female commentators found the 2014 title at best gimmicky, at worst sexist. When one of our contributors, John Carey, mentioned our (then forthcoming) book while plugging his own on Radio 4’s Midweek, the presenter Libby Purves said she would “hurl a book with a title like that across the room”.Reviewing the anthology in the Telegraph, the poet Wendy Cope was also annoyed by its title, which “seems to imply that it takes a really special poem to make a man weep, whereas women will shed tears over any old rubbish”. My assertion in the Observer that we were planning a female version looked, she said, like “a defensive move”. If we were really planning such a book, she wrote, she hoped we would ask her to be in it. Which, of course, we have; she has chosen Tennyson’s Charge of the Light Brigade.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Battle of Balaclava by John Charlton, immortalised in Tennyson’s poem The Charge of the Light Brigade, chosen by Wendy Cope. Photograph: The Print Collector/CorbisWhile I was making approaches for contributions, however, the old stereotypes were again turned upside down. Many more women than men told me they didn’t weep at anything; I received more polite refusals from eminent women than from their male counterparts. The vast majority who did respond, however, have made a wonderful variety of choices – far indeed from “any old rubbish” – striking notes sometimes interestingly similar to the men’s, sometimes intriguingly different. Collectively, they again meet my definition of the aspiration of both anthologies: to introduce new readers to the wonders of poetry while surprising the cognoscenti with less familiar marvels.Or, as Ben puts it: “Crying and poetry are, in their different ways, articulations of the inexpressible. They are, with music, and ironically in the case of poetry, the means by which we humans can explain what we are feeling when words fail us. They cut to the quick of our basic condition.“This project would not only allow us to explore this symmetry but also – we hoped – prompt people to read poetry. We wanted to provoke, with the help of inspirational contributors, some complex conversations: about freedom of expression, literacy, emotion and – of course – gender identity.”The fundamental truth, of course, is that men and women respond to poetry in exactly the same way – as complex human beings. As Sebastian Faulks explains in his afterword (Nadine Gordimer, since you ask, had the last word in the male book): “Poetry speaks to a vestigial part of the mind that was more active at the time Homo sapiens was becoming what she/he is… When we respond to poetry we engage a part of our being that is more primitive and in some way purer than the consciousness available minute-by-minute to our busy left-side brain.”While noting a lack of sentimentality, Faulks finds the range of poems chosen “so wide that it’s hard to see patterns or common themes”. That said, he admits to crying so much while reading them that “my family thought I was concealing some terrible news”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Irish poet WB Yeats didn’t feature in the male collection, whereas three women chose his poems. Photograph: George C Beresford/Getty ImagesIt is no surprise that whereas the 100 men chose only 12 poems by female poets, the 100 women have picked twice as many by men. Top of the lachrymose charts this time around comes Emily Dickinson, closely followed by Elizabeth Bishop. Philip Larkin led the male choices, with five; in the female volume, he merits only one poem (from Maggie Gee). The other two masculine favourites, Thomas Hardy and AE Housman, are conspicuous by their absence.WB Yeats, astonishingly absent from the male volume, is chosen by three women; Tennyson and TS Eliot, also missing from the male book, are each selected by two women. Ted Hughes and Sylvia Plath, neither of whom moved the men, are chosen by Sam Taylor-Johnson and Edna O’Brien respectively.Meanwhile, there are some interesting overlaps between the two collections. Two playwrights, Tena Stivicic and David Edgar, both choose Percy Bysshe Shelley’s rousing epic The Masque of Anarchy. Two novelists, Siri Hustvedt and Douglas Kennedy, name the same profound Dickinson poem, After Great Pain. John Clare’s desolate I Am is the choice of Helen Pankhurst, as it was of Ken Loach, Edward Thomas’s nostalgic Adlestrop that of Kate Atkinson and Lynn Barber as well as Simon Winchester. Coleridge’s Frost at Midnight is chosen by Helen Macdonald, as it was by Faulks.The Olympic athlete Emma Pooley has opted for the same Wilfred Owen poem, Anthem for Doomed Youth, which moved John Humphrys to tears when we discussed the first book on Radio 4’s Today programme. Mariella Frostrup chooses the same Yeats poem, When You Are Old, which had Jeremy Vine choking up on his Radio 2 show.Where Salman Rushdie was moved by Auden’s elegy for Yeats, so is Shami Chakrabarti by his elegy for Freud. Ezra Pound is the choice of Mary Beard, as he was of Craig Raine; John Updike of Tina Brown as of Joseph O’Neill; Harold Pinter of his widow, Antonia Fraser, as he was of Neil LaBute; Adrienne Rich of Kate Mosse and Anish Kapoor; Derek Walcott of Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie as well as Mark Haddon and Tom Hiddleston. Shakespeare is the poet for Marina Warner, as for Melvyn Bragg. One of Douglas Dunn’s elegies, in memory of his first wife, Lesley Wallace, is cited by Juliet Stevenson, as was another by Richard Eyre.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Antonia Fraser chose a poem written by her late husband, Harold Pinter. Photograph: Dave Gaywood/EPAThis book also features the same pleasing circularity as its predecessor, with a poem by one of our contributors, the poet laureate Carol Ann Duffy, being the choice of Imtiaz Dharker, whose own poem has been singled out by Meera Syal.The poets of the first world war again feature prominently, with Wilfred Owen chosen by Vanessa Redgrave as he was by Christopher Hitchens, Siegfried Sassoon by Annie Lennox as by Barry Humphries. A little-known first world war poem by Alice Corbin Henderson is offered a wider audience by Maxine Peake.Are the women’s choices more political? Suffice it to say, thanks to our partnership with Amnesty, we have many contributors with harrowing tales to tell, who have since turned their suffering to advantage by campaigning for human rights.This female collection brims with empathy – for human beings, but also for animals, birds, even oysters. There are touching examinations of parent-child relationships, haunting explorations of depression, mental illness, Aids, adoption, miscarriage. Amid nostalgia for a better past, and protest at the brutish present – we are still living in a world, as Amnesty’s Nicky Parker points out, where women can be put to death for writing poems – there are searing accounts of prejudice and persecution alongside passionate pleas for freedom. The Somali poet Warsan Shire’s Home strikes an especially poignant note during Europe’s long, agonising refugee crisis.As in the male book, other themes range from intimations of mortality via pity, pain and loss to the beauty and variety of nature, as well as love in all its many guises – collectively, for me, adding up to a quintessentially poetic sense of yearning, often for missed opportunities.Some choices are almost unbearably intimate: Antonia Fraser and Yoko Ono have both chosen the last poem their eminent husbands wrote for them before their deaths. Claire Tomalin has proudly made public a heart-rending poem by her 22-year-old daughter prefiguring her own death months later.Just as the book was going to press, we received a handwritten letter from Chelsea (born Bradley) Manning, prisoner No 89289 in the US disciplinary barracks at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, apologising for her failure to deliver an entry in time.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chelsea Manning: unable to deliver her entry due to her prison rights being cut. Photograph: APIn August 2015, two years into her 35-year jail sentence for whistle-blowing on military abuses, Manning’s prison rights were abruptly curtailed for the possession in her cell of “prohibited property” such as the autobiography of Malala Yousafzai and the issue of Vanity Fair featuring a cover story on her fellow transgender woman Caitlyn Jenner, not to mention a tube of expired toothpaste. She had also wanted to grow out her hair.Instead, she was placed on numerous restrictions, including denial of access to the prison library, where she had planned to research her defence against these charges as well as her entry for this book. “I really appreciated the offer,” she wrote, “and very much wanted to make a contribution. I am very, very sorry.”Manning’s plight is symbolic of so many contributors to both books, as indeed of many of the poets represented. Amnesty has underscored this by printing bookmarks reading: “Poems That Make Grown Women Cry is emblematic not just of the human struggle to make a difference, but of ongoing efforts for gender equality. It is a celebration of poetry’s age-old power to kindle aspirations to truth, justice and freedom. We want Chelsea to walk free.”Extract: Home by Warsan Shire – chosen by Sunny Jacobsyou have to understand,that no one puts their children in a boatunless the water is safer than the landno one burns their palmsunder trainsbeneath carriagesno one spends days and nights in the stomach of a truckfeeding on newspaper unless the miles travelledmeans something more than journey.no one crawls under fencesno one wants to be beatenpitiedno one chooses refugee campsor strip searches where yourbody is left achingor prison,because prison is saferthan a city of fireand one prison guardin the nightis better than a truckloadof men who look like your fatherno one could take itno one could stomach itno one skin would be tough enoughWarsan Shire is a Somali–British writer and poet. Sunny Jacobs is a campaigner who spent 17 years on death row in the US before being exonerated when her conviction for murder was overturnedPoems That Make Grown Women Cry is published by Simon & Schuster (£16.99) on Thursday. The editors and some contributors will be appearing in a platform event at the National Theatre on 4 March. Click here to order a copy of the book for £12.99