Just how much dread can the word “documentary” provoke? The answer is a whole world of it when prefixed by the name Rio Ferdinand and accompanied with full-force fear and anticipation of upset.Initially, I had known nothing about this well-trailed fly-on-the-wall view of Ferdinand’s seeking to understand the grief process following his wife Rebecca’s early death in 2015 from fucking cancer. More specifically, how he could guide his three children to find a means to “… talk happily and be joyful about their mum rather than it being sad and negative …”Rio Ferdinand talks of pain and helplessness after wife’s death Anticipation of Rio Ferdinand: Being Mum and Dad pressed buttons in the media and I was contacted by several seeking views on grief. Presumably, Helen’s death in the same year as Rebecca’s from the same damned disease meant I had something to say.“Adam, would you share your grief?” meant radio panels, responding to calls and expressing solidarity with the former footballer. I was glad to add to other’s understanding of the grief journey, which often hides in full view, lost in the illusion of coping or forgotten in the passing of time. So I did the pieces, answering questions and adding commentary to the histories of the fellow bereaved.I had overlooked, though, that every interview, every word, chipped away at the branch of the tree of recovery on which I had perched since Helen’s death. So when the bough finally broke, even before the documentary aired, I was plunged back into despair. It all returned – the profound unfairness of Helen’s death, her missing Millie and Matt’s growing up and countless barbs of misery and fear tearing at the newly formed skin covering the wound of Helen’s amputation from our lives.So come the broadcast, I’d had my fill of misery so didn’t watch. I answer “No” to the question “Adam, did you see Rio Ferdinand?”, provoking versions of, “Don’t watch it, mate! It’ll be too much. Too painful.” More rationally, I also wonder whether a story of a wealthy celebrity’s grief can have any relevance to mine. Would it be simply a masterclass that money can massage misery and privilege prevent pain?Then, by chance, I see him quoted over the morally bankrupt cuts to bereavement benefits. “If I’m honest, I don’t understand how the government can actually say there’s a timescale on it because there is no timescale on anything to do with bereavement,” says Ferdinand. “There isn’t a time when you can say, ‘Yeah, I’m over it.’ Putting a number on it is the wrong thing to do.” In these words, which so mirror my own, Ferdinand the man, not the personality, comes alive to me. So with a clear space in the diary and a beer to hand, I watch the documentary.It is totally and tragically compelling. So many touch-points beyond the obvious ones of disease, logistics and love. His feeling betrayed by Rebecca’s diagnosis given the speed of her death, his recognition of thoughts of suicide without ever going close to it because of the impact on the kids, his difficulty in watching videos of Rebecca even for the kids’ sake connect through the screen and bridge differences of background, profile and age. He shares my journey.I found myself recognising all too closely his sense of a “fully loaded diary” as a means of grief avoidance and, not least, the sense that “Filming has been therapy for me.” Substitute “writing” for “filming” and I’m there.The only jealousy that the film provokes is not of fabric but of feelings – Ferdinand cries tears of memory and moment and in doing so is clearly far further into the grieving process than he thinks. I have longed to cry yet haven’t in any meaningful way, until now. Fuelled perhaps by the buildup, I cry tears of grief and loss for the first time since Helen’s diagnosis. I do so at his story in a way that I could never do for my own lest I lose the control and strength Millie and Matt and others need from me. Yet the touch-points mean my tears for him are also, and at last, for Helen too.Make every bereaved father watch this documentary, perhaps retitling it “Rio Ferdinand: Mum, Dad and Widower of the Nation”.Adam Golightly is a pseudonym@MrAdamGolightly