Set up with a remit to be radical, Channel 4 has always been more concerned with challenging than endorsing traditional family values. But two elements of the classic Victorian household – the nanny and the granny – feature in the network’s schedule this week.A Granny’s Guide to the Modern World review – three elderly women go to Amsterdam to try out the hash  In The Three Day Nanny, Kathryn Mewes starts a new series of emergency visits to discipline-resistant children, while A Granny’s Guide to the Modern World has Barry Humphries fronting a pack of elderly reporters, who include three grandmothers smoking pot for the first time. These shows continue television’s tradition of what might be called home-made broadcasting. Originally intended to be viewed by a cosy domestic grouping – early Radio Times illustrations frequently showed parents and the requisite two children crouched around the primitive transmission cabinet – the medium has often based its formats and performers around a conventional family model.The parallel was most explicit in Ask the Family (BBC1, 1967-84), a peak-time quiz show seemingly exclusively designed for a husband and wife and two children they had jointly conceived. It’s possible that some adopted or step-children were quietly tolerated, but the general impression given was of a Happy Families clan in which everyone came from the white, professional, middle-classes.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest While children in the audience were prone to dislike the kids in that show – too posh, too swotty – the family dynamics on offer in Blue Peter (BBC, since 1958) deliberately encouraged identification and empathy. The presenters were surrogate elder siblings, perhaps back from university to run a summer camp. Although there were generally three hosts, the casting – Valerie Singleton, Peter Purves, Peter Duncan – often seemed based on the bright, bluff types from Enid Blyton’s The Famous Five. By the standards of the era though, the children’s show was socially bold in introducing, early on, John Noakes, a northerner who brought a sense of danger not just to his signature daredevil stunts but to almost anything he said. With the exception of Noakes, the line-ups on Ask The Family and Blue Peter’s early decades reflected television’s sense of how its core audience looked and sounded. More controversial is the question of whether, in presenting this Victorian Christmas card model of life at home, broadcasters were also promoting and endorsing it as a subliminal form of social engineering. Were families who didn’t match up being told that they were doing something wrong?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Elder siblings … Valerie Singleton, Peter Purves and John Noakes. Photograph: REX/Shutterstock Certainly, in the first decades of the medium, the most-played card in TV’s game of Happy Families was the most traditional of all: the father figure. The first wave of star, factual presenters – Richard Dimbleby and Lord Kenneth Clark in the UK, Walter Cronkite and Alistair Cooke in the US – reflected an identification between journalistic authority and paternalism or, as the careers of these men progressed, grandpaternalism. Indeed, the head-of-family ideal was so specific that, in the early years of TV, off-screen divorce could end an on-screen career (an adultery scandal was one of the factors in the departure of founder-host Christopher Trace from Blue Peter). The famous granddads of the schedules, however, were notoriously unlikely ever to be paired on screen with a grandma. Apart from the American exception of the revered senior Barbara Walters – and the recent British example of Mary Berry, even if she is restricted to currants rather than current affairs – older men were almost always given much younger female co-stars.  Breakfast TV pairings such as Frank Bough and Selina Scott in the UK, or Tom Brokaw and Jane Pauley in the US seemed designed to project a template of successful veteran with second wife. Reflecting the prejudices of senior male executives, these pairings are an unusual example of a family-based TV image departing from the most conservative stereotype.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Barry Humphries in A Granny’s Guide to the Modern World. Photograph: Channel 4/PA But, if TV’s use of the family model has usually been implicitly political, one area of programming has directly overlapped with recent government agendas. The rise of Nanny TV – starting with Jo Frost’s Supernanny on Channel 4 in 2004 – coincided with an apparent desire of Britain’s nanny state to have a greater influence on parenting.  The psychologist Dr Tanya Byron, an advisor to the Blair and Brown governments on childcare issues, was simultaneously on TV in nannying programmes such as Little Angels and The House of Tiny Tearaways. What turned out to be one of the final initiatives of the Cameron administration was a plan for national parenting lessons. And, although the departed prime minister won’t now be able to open his mother-and-father classrooms, TV is filling the gap through programmes such as Three Day Nanny. Another initiative of the Brown administration was seconding Dame Joan Bakewell as an advisor on issues facing older Britons, and, in this area as well, television has made a conscious effort to be less ageist in its choice of presenters and subject-matter. But it’s worrying that A Granny’s Guide to the Modern World and ITV’s recent 100 Year-Old Drivers – treat the elderly as comic relief, encouraging them to take part in unlikely or undignified stunts. Family-unit casting does not apply in all areas of television. David Attenborough, whose TV career has been exceptional in most ways, is also singular here. Never a paternalistic presenter, he most resembles a cross between a dream science teacher and, even as a nonagenarian, an enthusiastic big brother. His A Grandpa’s Guide to the Modern World might really be a series worth commissioning.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Michaels family, from Gogglebox. Photograph: CHANNEL 4At least, though, broadcasters’ sense of who might be sitting on the sofa has expanded since the days of Ask the Family. Channel 4’s Gogglebox does this very visibly, through the tactic of putting the viewers on screen. Its critics, vibrantly varied in class, race, sexuality and faith serve as a quiet advert for the diversity of the modern UK home. Even so, American schedules have generally been ahead in this mission. Although The Cosby Show (NBC, 1984-92) is now overshadowed by the sex-crime allegations against star Bill Cosby, its presentation of an African-America middle-class was culturally game-changing. More recently, the mock-doc Modern Family (ABC, since 2009) has used comedy to equally progressive effect by showing the increasingly numerous permutations of American family life.Nigella? Boo! Baby giraffes? Yay! … meet the Gogglesprogs, TV's sharpest critics In contrast, British comedy can still often seem depressingly monochrome and single-caste: the families in Terry and June through Two Point Four Children to My Family might all come from the same tree. But what’s interesting about Three-Day Nanny is that it applies a 19th-century remedy to 21st-century set-ups: the desperate parent in tonight’s show is a single mother. The current Blue Peter line-up – of Barney, Radzi and Lindsey – reflects an attempt to represent its audience more broadly on-screen. Quiz and game shows also now frequently feature gay couples, in addition to continuing efforts at greater racial diversity. Perhaps it’s time for Ask the Family to be revived, with teams that truly represent the family units that are now to be found in Britain.