The World Food Programme (WFP) is banking on technology, generosity and busy thumbs to help it feed some of the 600,000 Syrian refugee children who have been forced from their homeland by the country’s four-year civil war.Conflict drives 'unacceptable' figure of 795 million people facing hunger On Thursday, the WFP rolls out a free smartphone app called ShareTheMeal, which will allow iOS and Android users to donate 50 US cents (35p) whenever and wherever they want. The sum is enough to provide a child with vital nutrition for a day.The WFP, which will take 5 cents from each donation to cover overheads, hopes the app will pay for a year’s worth of school meals for 20,000 Syrian children in refugee camps in Jordan.The idea, according to the WFP’s executive director, Ertharin Cousin, is to give people a quick and easy way to help as they sit down for lunch at their desks or dinner with friends. Users can also donate as many times as they want and will be able to follow the progress of their donation through the app to see where their money is going.“The simple act of sharing a meal is how people all over the world come together,” said Cousin. “This digital version of sharing a meal is a tangible way that generation zero hunger can act to end hunger.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The WFP says it has high hopes for the app: when it was tested in Germany, Austria and Switzerland in June this year, more than 120,000 users provided more than 1.7m meals for schoolchildren in Lesotho. The organisation also points out that the world’s 2 billion smartphone users outnumber its hungry children by 20 to 1.The app, which was developed by Sebastian Stricker and Bernard Kowatsch, is the WFP’s latest effort to highlight the humanitarian emergency facing millions of Syrians inside and outside their country.The war – which has killed more than 250,00 people, maimed up to a million and left almost 4.3 million seeking sanctuary in neighbouring countries – has placed international aid agencies under huge stress.In December last year, a $64m (£42m) funding shortfall temporarily forced the WFP to suspend its food vouchers to hundreds of thousands of Syrian refugees. The programme was reinstated a week later after an emergency appeal raised $88m in days.In July this year, the WFP announced that it would have to halve the value of food vouchers given to Syrian refugees in Lebanon.A month later, Cousin warned that cuts in food aid to vulnerable refugees in the Middle East were making young men vulnerable to recruitment by extremists.“What concerns me is the young men who I was meeting with … who see no other method of feeding their family other than to return to Syria,” she told reporters during a visit to Lebanon.“They become prime targets for the Islamist extremist groups who are paying money for service. So if that then is how they can feed their family, that is attractive and that is something that should worry us all.”The UN’s $4.5bn appeal to tackle the Syrian refugee crisis this year is currently only 50% funded. At the end of 2014, one in every five displaced people worldwide was Syrian.