Don’t advertise Nearly Departed’s room on Airbnb until they have actually left. This will only spark antagonism. You won’t be allowed to forget in years to come that you “shoved” them out of their home/nest in order to earn a fast buck on the back of their university debt. But when they do leave and you have blasted through the quarry of rubble left behind, you can take joy in rediscovering the carpet, fire-hosing the walls, chiselling off nail varnish from the mirror, rescuing dust bunnies and setting them free, and unearthing a whole set of forgotten crockery from under the bed.When ND is well and truly ensconced in their digs, you can rent out the room as a holiday let or to a local student who you can boot out if they threaten to reinstate any of the above.Give yourself a well-earned break. But don’t frame it like that. ND will respond as if you have been trying to get rid of them for years. Of course you loved having them, serving them, doting on them, saving them, nursing them, feeding them, “encouraging” homework, wiping tears, bottoms, muddy footprints. It’s just that after two decades of all that it’s fair to say you could do with a bit of a holiday/darkened room with fizz on tap.Rent out their room and get the best break you can muster.Get technical support. Take lessons from ND on the basics before they leave, on how to use Apple TV/find your music and films which they installed somewhere on iCloud after selling all your CDs/DVDs to fund their gap year. Then find yourself a friendly local IT expert (or rent out the spare room to an IT student).Dance as if no one is watching. Because now no one is watching from behind their fingers yelling “Gross, stop, you’re so embarrassing!” Now you can move your groove to any music, throw any shapes, shimmy naked if you want …You no longer have to live in a catchment area and the phrases league tables, Sats and exam results need pass your lips no more.Reclaim the remote control. Place it like Cinderella’s glass slipper on a stuffed purple velvet cushion in pride of place on the coffee table, knowing a) it won’t be used to replace Grand Designs with Goggle Sprogs, b) it won’t be raided for its batteries to reinvigorate the game console, c) it won’t be lost never to be found again gaffer taped to the TV screen.Do not take your break anywhere near the vicinity of the now Dearly Departed. Stalking your offspring at this stage of separation will only prolong the agony for you and install a hearty, hacked-off response from them. “There is a reason I chose Edinburgh, Falmouth, Timbuktu …”You can turn off your mobile phone at night knowing you will no longer be getting late-night calls to say a) it’s OK, you don’t have to pick me up from the station, I’ll walk the long, dark alley home alone, b) do you know where my passport is, I can’t find it and I’m flying from Gatwick tomorrow morning? c) in order to get the cheapest flights I’ve booked a 6am flight, which means leaving at 3am and it’s Sunday and there are no trains so could you take me the 120-mile round trip or give me the money for a taxi (which , by the way, costs more than the flight).Reboot your creative prowess, hitherto channelled into 19 years of finger painting, making Easter egg bonnets, princess costumes, fixing catapults, building Evel Knievel ramps, painting Hello Kitty/Spider-Man webs on bedroom walls, super-gluing your fingers to tiny Airfix plane parts, face painting, pretending to be Father Christmas, Gary the Clown or the Tooth Fairy. Your flair can now be diverted into more adult creative pursuits such as mindful doodling or releasing your inner disco diva.Kick off your stilettos, peruse the photo albums for all the happy times you had together, smile and relax knowing you have done a good job. Your child is on their way into the world and will be back soon enough … before you can say, “Don’t steal the batteries from the remote control.”• Brave New Girl: How to be Fearless by Lou Hamilton is published by Orion Spring on 6 October, £12.99 