Finding Fullers Mill in 1958 was sheer good luck. I always wanted to live remotely and by water. I went to look at an old gamekeeper’s cottage which was no good so I visited some friends nearby and told them what I was looking for. They said, “Why don’t you buy this because we’re just going to West Africa?” We settled it over a cup of tea.I became interested in gardening because I had land. Every night I read and read and taught myself about plants. I settled on Beth Chatto and Christopher Lloyd as my two favourite authors.The first job was to create a lawn. We needed topsoil – we got 13 lorry loads from the sugar beet factory. With a roller you simply roll in bumps, but if you keep treading and raking you get a perfect solution. I didn’t know about things like garden design. I drove around with the tractor to make paths and made beds which felt natural to my eye. Part of my plan is to surprise people – all the paths are curved so you can’t see until you get round the corner.How does your garden grow? Gemma Wood, Wye Valley Sculpture Garden, Monmouthshire I enjoy speaking to visitors when they are interested in plants. I’m good at spotting a potential volunteer. I say volunteers breed: if you get one, they bring a friend.I fell in love with lilies when I was looking for something that would bring light to the garden in its early days, before the trees and shrubs knitted together. Lily breeder Derek Fox taught me all I know. Without doubt my favourite is still the delicate pink ‘Lake Tulare’ he gave me 30 years ago. The plantsman Maurice Mason introduced me to Broussonetia papyrifera ‘Laciniata’ saying, “Bernard, you’ve got to have a plant that defeats all botanists.” The important botanists give up straight away, it’s the young ones who go further and further into the mire.I’ve made many plant-hunting trips with my wife, Bess. In Norway we were walking in the mountains and thought we were looking at very green pasture but it turned out the whole place was covered in the inch-high willow Salix herbacea. Shrubby willows grow well here – I like their ways and the ground suits them.My favourite spotOn the terrace next to the house is the winter flowering iris, Iris unguicularis subsp. cretensis ‘Bess Tickner’, found by Bess on a trip to Crete.• Fullers Mill Garden is open Wednesday, Friday and Sunday, 2-5pm, until September, fullersmillgarden.org.uk.How does your garden grow? Email gardens@theguardian.com