I wrote and deleted the first sentence of this review no less than seventeen times. I can’t think of what to say about a book so beautiful, so raw and real, that it becomes almost painful to read. A re-imagined twenty-first century, in which Nazis won the second world war, is an idea that I recently criticised as being boring and tired, but here I truly take that back as this book is a compelling page-turner.The Big Lie is a stark and gripping tale of Jessika Keller, the perfect daughter of a British Nazi family. As a model student, ice skating superstar and the daughter of a very important man, she is sheltered, protected, and entirely loyal to the regime. Except for one thing. Her best friend Clementine is a rebellious and outspoken teenager, who can see the Greater German Reich for what it is and isn’t afraid to say so. Funny, opinionated and brave, Clem is the real heroine of the story. Jess is simply the always slightly inadequate sidekick, who goes along with whatever she may be told. So when her growing feelings for Clem begin to challenge the ideals she was brought up to believe in, the tension really begins to build. Suddenly Jess is seeing, thinking and feeling things she never believed were possible, but the strength to defy her upbringing and stand up for herself is hard to come by. It is so much easier for her to just silently accept her situation and get on with life. But when the unthinkable happens, Jess must be strong and true to herself – whatever that may mean. I guess in some ways that is the message I take from the book: there is danger in passively accepting things you know to be morally wrong. This is something that will never become out-of-date or irrelevant, because ideas will always need challenging. It is also well worth reading the Author’s Note at the back of the book, where Mayhew explains how, although she took inspiration from history, many of the things she has written about have shocking parallels in the world today. While philosophical pondering is not the sole aim of the book – it has a great plot, realistic characters and is well researched – it certainly makes you think. The quote on the cover is a great start: ‘Duty sets you free’. At first it seems pretty contradictory and downright untrue but as the book progresses, its meaning becomes clearer. Although it isn’t perhaps the most original concept, Julie Mayhew has thought the idea through to the tiniest detail. Computers and the internet are owned only by the rich, Jewish people have emigrated to America (a lost continent from which nothing is ever heard) and to the English, the ‘world’ consists of just a few countries including England, Germany and France. Even the well known chain ‘Marks and Spencer’ was renamed ‘Spencer’ due to his co-founder being Jewish.There isn’t much more I can say, except for this. Get a copy now and read it – you might even end up starting a rebellion.How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!