Animated sequel Kung Fu Panda 3 scored a respectable $41m on debut to top the US box office this weekend, but Oscar-winner Natalie Portman suffered a career-worst opening on the troubled western Jane Got a Gun.Directed once again by Jennifer Yuh Nelson, this time with Alessandro Carloni, the new Kung Fu Panda film sees the roundhouse-kicking bear meet his birth family for the first time, as well as graduating to become a teacher of martial arts. Strong reviews and a voice cast featuring Jack Black, Angelina Jolie, Dustin Hoffman, Jackie Chan and Seth Rogen once again fuelled the film’s North American success.Kung Fu Panda 3 did even better in China, where it pulled in $58.3m, the biggest animated opening of time. The sequel is the first in the trilogy to be co-produced by DreamWorks Animation and Shanghai-based Oriental DreamWorks, which guaranteed it a preferential release under China’s restricted system.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Proper performance ... Kung Fu Panda 3 Photograph: DreamWorks Animation/APThere was less positive news for the week’s other new releases. Coastguard drama The Finest Hours, starring Chris Pine and Casey Affleck, landed in fourth spot with just $10.3m on debut, a disappointing return given the film’s lavish $70m budget. Reviews have been decent, if not stellar, with Deadline labelling Craig Gillespie’s movie “an entertaining and expertly crafted Coast Guard tale”.Fifty Shades of Grey spoof Fifty Shades of Black failed to perform, taking just $6.1m in ninth place. The film sees Scary Movie regular Marlon Wayans as Christian Black, a riff on EL James’ kinky businessman Christian Grey from the popular erotic romance novels and film. Critics have not been kind, with Slant Magazine calling the movie “an aimless, if sporadically clever, parody that tirelessly conceives of human sexuality as punchlines for its shortsighted cultural ribbings”.Jane Got a Gun, starring Portman in the title role of a farmer forced to take desperate measures to protect her life and home, landed outside the top 10 on debut with just $830,000 in North American receipts. The film’s travails have been well-documented: Original director Lynne Ramsay quit production on the indie drama in March 2013, prior to the first day of shooting, following a three-day standoff with producer-financier Scott Steindorff.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nothing in sight ... Natalie Portman and Joel Edgerton in Jane Got a Gun Photograph: PRThe western was ultimately completed by Warrior’s Gavin O’Connor, who was called in at short notice with production already under way. Ramsay’s departure also saw Ewan McGregor replace Jude Law as the villain, while Joel Edgerton had earlier replaced Michael Fassbender in a heroic role. The acclaimed Scottish director of Morvern Callar and We Need to Talk About Kevin later found herself the subject of a legal action, but the two sides settled out of court in March 2014.