I could probably find a few political parallels between recent events and the themes of White Fang and The Call of the Wild. Jack London goes big on the cruel violence of nature. But, if you’re like me, you’ll have heard enough about that kind of thing recently, and need a rest.Reading group: let's tackle three Jack London stories this November More than that, I don’t want to sully an enjoyable reading experience. Reading these Jack London books have helped me escape for a while – and I hope they did you too. They provided strong stories, well told, in a distant setting where the distractions aren’t political. Dogs in the Yukon in the 19th century had their own challenges to face, and Weltschmerz was probably not among them.Yet I can’t deny that some of the sorrows of the world intruded on my reading. I was hit hardest by nostalgia for my own childhood. It was sad to think of how many things have changed since, and that I’ve changed with them. Even at the best of times, as several commenters on the Reading Group observed, it’s risky to pick up books that were once childhood favourites. Fortunately, my memories weren’t trampled. Far from it. I was able to suspend disbelief and get swept up all over again. More than that, I felt again the strong emotional pull as London’s dogs overcame hardship, stood up for themselves, and found a kind of happiness. I didn’t even mind White Fang’s daft ending. I was so invested in the wolf dog by the time he was heroically thwarting house invaders that my main thought was: “Good boy!” It was only afterwards that I reflected that this finale might have been over-the-top. The 100 best novels: No 35 – The Call of the Wild by Jack London (1903) I also found it harder to accept the stories on their own terms. As a child, I was more than happy to accept Jack London as an authority on dogs and wolves and their behaviour. Now, I couldn’t help thinking that most of the dogs I’ve met aren’t quite like the dignified, serious animals I was reading about. My own puppy appears to be far more interested in eating underpants than he is in maintaining his canine “pride”. I’m not convinced he spends as much time thinking his place in the social and evolutionary order as London’s animals do, either.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Author Jack London. Photograph: Hulton Archive/Getty ImagesLike many dog lovers, I do think my canine friend has some emotional life, an ability to figure things out, and a capacity to enjoy himself. I understand why London writes about Buck feeling the “ecstasy comes when one is most alive, and it comes as a complete forgetfulness that one is alive”. After all, there are few things more joyful than a dog leaping into water.But I found it harder to accept that London’s dogs are philosophical creatures, as well as expert sled-pullers and mean fighters. In The Call of the Wild we get passages where Buck is deeply reflective: Best of all, perhaps, he loved to lie near the fire, hind legs crouched under him, fore legs stretched out in front, head raised, and eyes blinking dreamily at the flames. Sometimes he thought of Judge Miller’s big house in the sun-kissed Santa Clara Valley, and of the cement swimming-tank, and Ysabel, the Mexican hairless, and Toots, the Japanese pug; but oftener he remembered the man in the red sweater, the death of Curly, the great fight with Spitz, and the good things he had eaten or would like to eat. He was not homesick.In White Fang, written three years later, London revisits the idea of doggy reminiscences – this time with White Fang remembering the north he has left behind from his new home in the warm south. This time the thought processes have taken on an interesting nuance: He missed the snow without being aware of it. ‘An unduly long summer,’ would have been his thought had he thought about it; as it was, he merely missed the snow in a vague, subconscious way. In the same fashion, especially in the heat of summer when he suffered from the sun, he experienced faint longings for the Northland. Their only effect upon him, however, was to make him uneasy and restless without his knowing what was the matter.In White Fang, London works hard to show how different his dog is to man (“But the cub did not think in man-fashion. He did not look at things with wide vision. He was single-purposed, and entertained but one thought or desire at a time”). But even so, we are also told that White Fang has “thoughts of his own”. He can even plan: “He became cunning; he had idle time in which to devote himself to thoughts of trickery.”While these concerns may only have occurred to me now, they’ve also been worrying readers ever since the book first came out. Most famously, London was accused of being a “nature-faker” by no less than President Roosevelt, who had not only read the novel, but had considerable knowledge about contemporary scientific opinion (I know, what a contrast). Roosevelt’s complaints were summarised by London in a typically entertaining essay, The Other Animals: Time and again, and many times, in my narratives, I wrote, speaking of my dog-heroes: ‘He did not think these things; he merely did them,’ etc. And I did this repeatedly, to the clogging of my narrative and in violation of my artistic canons; and I did it in order to hammer into the average human understanding that these dog-heroes of mine were not directed by abstract reasoning, but by instinct, sensation, and emotion, and by simple reasoning.There’s plenty in London’s novels that zoologists would now think unlikely. James Dickey, who introduces my Penguin edition, takes great delight in pointing out how much more cooperative and how much less combative real wolves are than London’s. But plenty of London’s ideas about dogs having their own emotional system aren’t so far away from modern science, and his ideas certainly seem more contemporary than the ones that convinced Roosevelt that dogs can’t think at all.But even if London were completely wrong about dogs and wolves, I’d still want to argue on his behalf. The scientific accuracy of the books doesn’t matter, in the end. He may not have brought an actual dog to life in the form of Buck, and White Fang may not be like any wolves you may find in the wild, but I do believe in them as artistic creations. I enjoyed following them around and I felt their sorrows and triumphs and zest for life. This week, that was good enough for me.