Debt: $100,000Source: Student loansEstimated years until debt-free: 21 yearsI managed to get out of undergrad with about $20,000 in debt, relatively little in today’s landscape. But then I decided it would be a great idea to go to an Ivy League school for my Master’s, and now I have over $100,000 worth of regret. I realized that going to such an expensive school was a mistake halfway through the one-year program. But by then I figured it was too late; if I was going to add $40,000 to my student debt, I might as well add $80,000 and walk away with something to show for it. Now, with my fancy degree in a manila envelope in the back of my closet, I try not to think too much about how long it would take a freelance writer and editor to pay off a $100,000 debt.When I first learned about income-based repayment (IBR), I thought it was a godsend. IBR is a federal loan forgiveness program that calculates your monthly loan payments as a small percentage of your income, and then forgives the balance of your debt after 25 years (as long as you always pay on time). The idea is to keep student loan payments from totally crippling people who are having trouble finding work, or who just aren’t making enough to cover the huge monthly bills expected under normal repayment. Tell us about your life in the red: how do you survive with debt? This was perfect for me, I thought. As a writer, I never expected to all that much money, so my monthly payments would stay low and manageable, plus now there was a light at the end of the tunnel where there hadn’t been one before – I didn’t know how I could ever pay off a hundred grand, but I could make small, on-time payments for 25 years, no problem. Sure it was a little backward that I now had an incentive to keep my income low, when higher education is supposedly designed to help people reach higher, but I didn’t worry about it too much.Then I got married. My husband is in business and is much more financially ambitious than I am. He has the potential, and desire, to raise us into a higher income bracket. And his income is factored in to my loan payments under the IBR. This hasn’t become an issue yet, since he’s not raking in the big bucks at the moment. But if he does someday, the government will take a percentage of it, all because I got a vanity degree at a big-name school. My past recklessness will chip away at his accomplishments for the next 21 years (the amount of time I have left on my repayment plan), compromising our ability to attain the future that we dream of. I feel such immense guilt for this burden I’ve brought into our marriage; it’s almost like I gave him an STD, except the disease is debt.My $50,000 medical debt was like a hydra-headed monster that ate my life | Maggie Ethridge This is just one more problem with the current student loan system and outrageous tuition costs in this country – aside from the fact that it may be the next bubble to burst and send our economy plummeting, and the fact that higher education is supposed to expand opportunities, while the debt many get into to pay for it limits them: even if loans feel necessary and manageable when we take them on, life tends to change dramatically in the 25 years after graduating college. No college student, backed into a corner by the misconception that college is a necessity, can foresee their future circumstances or fully grasp the multitude of ways such massive debt will hamper their growth over the next several decades. I’m still grateful for the IBR plan, because without it my monthly payments would be higher than my rent, and I don’t know how I would survive. I certainly wouldn’t be able to afford to work in the field I paid so much to be trained in. But I also regret my decision to go to a school I couldn’t afford even more than I did before. Because now it’s not just my life that I’ve messed up, it’s the future and mobility of the person I’m supposed to build up and support – like higher education was supposed to build me up, not keep me down. 