John Cooper Clarke is most often described as a “punk poet” or the “Bard of Salford”. Both descriptions suit him, but there’s so much more to the man who calls himself “Johnny Clarke, the voice behind the haircut”.His look – bedraggled Dylan barnet, pipe-cleaner legs and ever-present black suit – has been the same for 40 years and made him as instantly identifiable as his voice, that inimitable Salford burr. Along the way, he’s been an actor, a standup comic, an ad voiceover man and an unlikely pop star – first making the Top 40 with 1979’s Gimmix, on, of all things, orange triangular-shaped vinyl.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Those who first saw him unleashing his fearsome but funny polemic over spitting front rows in some of the early punk rock gigs would presumably have been astounded to see him pop up on telly a decade later alongside the Honey Monster, flogging a breakfast cereal. “JCC” is a polymath, renaissance man and true enigma, but seems to have a clear idea of what he is and what he is not. As a lucrative career in advertising beckoned, he instead returned to the creative use of language that inspired a young Alex Turner. Recently, the Bard was even given an honorary doctorate – so that’s Dr Cooper Clarke, to the likes of you and me.For all this, one thing he’s never been – in public anyway – is a singer, but it should surprise no one that in his 68th year, he’s become exactly that. This Time It’s Personal pairs him with ex-Stranglers singer/guitarist Hugh Cornwell, who calls Clarke “the unofficial poet laureate”, for an album of covers of favourite songs from their youth. The first to be made available is an epic, extraordinary, a bit bonkers but actually rather magical take on Jimmy Webb’s MacArthur Park, premiered below. Previously a hit for actor Richard Harris, in 1968, and Donna Summer, in a 1978 disco version, Cornwell apparently took six months to piece together the backing track and you can hear why. It’s a near seven-minute odyssey which veers from piano balladry to guitar rock, with barrages of hippy era flute along the way. If anything, Clarke’s singing is even more eyebrow-raising the the music. His deadpan Salford burr remains intact, but there’s an element of Las Vegas crooning too: despite years doing spoken word, possibly singing only in the bath, he sounds like a Salford Sinatra. Who knew?!I first came across him on a live album, Short Circuit, recorded at Manchester’s Electric Circus, when JCC’s poem Daily Express nestled alongside early offerings by Joy Division and the Fall. Poetry and punk shouldn’t mix – and certainly hadn’t done before – but Clarke won over the spiky hordes and subsequently inspired a whole generation of spoken-word acts with his frenetic, nasal delivery and a mix of social commentary and humour pinpointing the absurdities of British life. “This paper’s boring, mindless mean, full of pornography the kind that’s clean … You’ll see all kinds of ugliness and hideous excess, but you don’t see nipples in the Daily Express.” In the new-wave era, JCC’s poems were like alternative documentaries, searing insights into late-70s decay. The 1979 youth TV show Something Else brought Evidently Chickentown to the masses via the BBC: “The bloody clubs are bloody full / Of bloody girls and bloody guys / With bloody murder in their eyes / A bloody bloke is bloody stabbed / Waiting for a bloody cab.” Another early classic, Beasley Street, was inspired by life in Lower Broughton: “Belladonna is your flower / Manslaughter your meat / Spend a year in a couple of hours / On the edge of Beasley Street.” Lovely.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   JCC on a tour/review of junk-food restaurants for Sound magazine. Photograph: Rex/Ray StevensonHis brilliance was in high-octane, unaccompanied wordplay, but five albums with producer Martin Hannett showed that his lyrics could work with music, too. 1980’s Snap, Crackle and Bop made No 26 and saw the punk poet a labelmate of Abba. Sadly, much of the rest of the 80s was lost to heroin abuse, but in later years, fully recovered, Clarke has again pounded the boards, playing bigger shows than ever but still carrying his precious words in carrier bags. Lately, he’s become a literary hero, TV and radio personality and (gulp) national treasure. His work features on the GCSE syllabus, and shortly after Alex Turner printed Clarke’s lyrics in Arctic Monkeys’ singles, the Bard cropped up playing himself in the Joy Division biopic, Control, and in Plan B’s Ill Manors film.Six years ago, he told me how he’d been fired-up by poetry at school when it could not have been more unfashionable. By writing and reading it, he has made spoken-word verse cool. Now 67 and clearly still looking for new creative avenues, he seems determined to pack as much as possible into whatever time is left. Jokes about his health and mortality are now a key part of his act - “How long have I got?” he asks audiences: “That isn’t an existential question” – but the reinvention of Mac Arthur Park suggests that there will be many more twists and turns to come.• MacArthur Park appears on John Cooper Clarke and Hugh Cornwell’s This Time It’s Personal, an album of covers of songs by the likes of Lieber and Stoller and Ricky Nelson, released on 14 October• This article was amended on 15 July. It incorrectly referred to a Manchester venue called Electric Circuit instead of Electric Circus. 