What’s your favourite ballet music? For me, it is Stravinsky’s Firebird. Favourite film music? Bernard Herrmann’s scorching score for Vertigo. But your favourite music written for a play? Not so easy to recall. In fact, what can I even think of that qualifies? Wracking my brains, Mendelssohn’s Midsummer Night’s Dream comes to mind, but even that, technically, was originally written as a concert piece and only later padded out to accompany a stage performance.Why is it that music for ballet – and lately films – packs out concert halls, but we seldom remember, let alone celebrate, music written for theatre? Is the music less substantial, its job less important? It’s a question that set me and conductor Simon Over on an expedition to Stratford-upon-Avon to find out what noteworthy music had been written for the Royal Shakespeare Company in its century-long history. There we met its head of music Bruce O’Neil.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A 1951 RSC production of the Tempest, music from which has been resurrected. Photograph: Angus McBeanO’Neil and his team recently embarked on the mammoth task of unearthing the musical treasures lurking in their vaults. To this day, few theatrical scores are either published or recorded, so once a production has finished, most end up being archived, and then forgotten. In 2013, the RSC’s artistic director, Gregory Doran, began a new cycle of Shakespeare’s plays. O’Neil wanted to preserve the music commissioned for each production and pledged to record highlights of each score on CD. He then thought it would be novel to complete each disc with the music written for an earlier production of the same play. And so to complement Paul Englishby’s music for 2013’s production of Richard II (starring David Tennant), O’Neil and his colleagues dredged up the manuscripts for a production written exactly a century earlier. Excitingly, the composer just happened to be Ralph Vaughan Williams.O’Neil’s team also learned that although the composer conducted the piece (and even sang some of the off stage chorus when the singers missed their cues), the play’s director Frank Benson was “neither pleased nor interested” by the new music and promptly cut it from all revivals. The word is he found Vaughan Williams’ penchant for folk idioms too avant garde. This music – vintage Vaughan Williams, rich in melody and sentiment – has sat unperformed for 100 years. We are thrilled to be giving its concert premiere in London on 20 September, at St John’s Smith Square.Claire van Kampen: my favourite Shakespeare-inspired compositions Since the RSC discovered the Vaughan Williams score, its music team has spent every spare hour exploring the vaults for other notable composers who wrote for the company. Inspired by their quest, Over and I decided to programme a concert of some of their discoveries – a distinctive way to celebrate Shakespeare’s 400th anniversary. But we were spoiled for choice. We could give a whole season of concerts and still not span all there is to be heard in the RSC archive.Nonetheless, other gems from the RSC vaults that we’ll be performing in concert for the first time include Lennox Berkeley’s ravishing The Winter’s Tale (1960), which sees the composer at his most desolate and playful, as the play’s two halves require; Edmund Rubbra’s startling, monochrome score for Macbeth (1946), and Malcolm Williamson’s gleeful Merry Wives of Windsor (1965), which sounds like Shostakovich giddily colliding with Benny Hill.Also on the programme is a score for a 1925 production of King John. For a long time, the music was thought to be the work of theatre composer Albert Cazabon. Fastidious sleuthing on the part of O’Neil’s colleague Richard Sandland revealed it was actually written in the hand of one Rosabel Watson. We can only speculate why the manuscripts do not bear her name: pure clerical oversight or a case of a woman not being given due credit? Even by today’s standards, Watson was an extraordinary figure: she wrote extensively for the stage and concert hall, founded and conducted a suffragette orchestra that toured nationally, and was also regarded as the finest female horn player in Britain. Her name should be more widely known. I hope her renaissance begins here.The Merchant of Venice review – Tchaikowsky's opera reminds us that prejudice is ever present Despite the riches we’re bringing to light, hundreds of other scores remain shelved in the RSC archive. Each one needs a careful transference from heaps of faded, handwritten scribbles into legible, computer-notated copies, for which O’Neil would doubtless value an army of helpers. Then they need musicians eager to take them for a spin. Of course, you might wonder if the music warrants a life of its own, long after the curtain dropped on the show for which it was written. On the strength of the scores we are resurrecting, I would say it’s worth the endeavour. In Berkeley’s case alone, there are colours in this music that the composer only hints at elsewhere in his canon. And though he never returned to the RSC, it’s clear that Vaughan Williams put his soul into the music he wrote for Richard II. I imagine it could easily find its way, alongside his other works, into the Classic FM hall of fame. O’Neil is convinced there are further gems waiting to be found in the RSC troves.But what other great theatrical music can we resurrect? Next month, the Southbank Sinfonia’s musicians embark on the National Theatre’s new production of Amadeus. I’d love to slip into the National’s archives to see what we can find there. Who knows? A few years ago, the orchestra performed Delius’s complete music for the play Hassan at the Cheltenham festival, a sprawling curiosity that seems to air about once a decade. In 1923, when the play was written, it was customary for theatres to have lavish bands perform epic scores to match the on-stage melodrama. On dusty shelves across the country, such music must still be sitting, waiting, crying out to be heard again. James Murphy is the managing director of Southbank Sinfonia. Southbank Sinfonia and the Royal Shakespeare Company present Shakespeare in Music at St John’s Smith Square, London, on Tuesday.