Last August I had a desperate moment where I found myself searching online to locate someone, anyone, who had lost half their family to cancer. Lung cancer, specifically. It took both my parents before my sister and I had the chance to have families of our own, before we felt truly “grown up”, and it has left me overwhelmed by grief.My father died in 2010 after a long battle. As carers for my Dad, we saw how hard he struggled to hang on to the life he loved so dearly. His battle with losing his independence and function was heartbreaking, and as his daughters we were faced with losing our very foundations. Almost immediately after his passing, my sister and I knew that our worst nightmare would be to lose our mother too. Although our parents were long separated, she had comforted us as we navigated our way through the unpredictable rivers of grief. The world was shaky and scary without our father, but I felt proud of caring for him, and of loving him until the end.Depression doesn’t stop when you go to work. It shouldn’t be taboo to tell your boss | Jordan Oldbury It took a few years to rebuild the lives we’d left behind since cancer had marched in. New paths were set, new beginnings were found, and things were beginning to calm. I even slowly began to plan for the future. That was until I got a call early last July. Our mother had stage 4 lung cancer (familiar words to us now). It had spread before we knew it had even crept in. Bones, liver, brain. No, my mother wasn’t a candidate for surgery. No, she wouldn’t be able to have chemo.My mother didn’t have long. In the end, it was six weeks from diagnosis to standing at yet another crematorium collecting the ashes of the woman who gave us life. In the immediate weeks following her death I experienced an almost unconscious state of shock. Logically, I knew she had died, as I planned her memorial service and emptied her apartment, but the brain and heart can serve as miraculous organs of protection. I simply felt nothing. In a state of constant dismay I would ask those around me how could the loss of someone I loved so dearly not manifest itself in devastating grief? A counsellor advised me that in time it would come, that the discomfort of nothingness would be replaced by waves of crippling pain. She said it was around the corner, and she wasn’t wrong. Even for the strongest survivors, grief requires endless support and understanding When it did come, the grief was paralysing. Thoughts of the woman I loved so dearly, the cancer, the fear, the anguish (both hers and mine), dominated my heart from morning until night. I ached to speak to her. To hold her hand. I begged a God I don’t believe in to bring her back to me. I sent her texts. I wore her T-shirts. I kept one of her hair scrunchies on my bedside table. I used her hairbrush. As I got down to tie my shoes, it was her hands that I saw.A mother is the very core of who you are, and everything felt different without her. Whoever I was before seemed to leave with her, and what was left was a broken, angry, empty shadow. Friends and family who couldn’t handle the double dose of tragedy scattered fast, and the remaining ones patiently waited for gaps between sobs to express their empathy, which was often met with the vicious bite of pain that comes with bereavement.Loss is often met with misunderstanding, frustration and avoidance, a lesson quickly learned by those of us left behind. Deep compassion, love and understanding are truly the only prescription for sorrow. But despite their best intentions, not everyone can deliver those things, which only makes things more difficult for both parties. Even for the strongest survivors, grief requires endless support and understanding. The loss of your parents is the loss of unconditional love. Losing that is a monumental transition. Friends, partners, even siblings can walk away if they choose. But mothers and fathers stay. They love and they love and then they love some more. Even when you don’t deserve it. Even when you don’t want them to.I feel their absence every single day, but on special occasions, the loneliness is almost unmanageable. When everyone is heading home to their families, it’s hard not to feel alienated. I’ve pushed through these months somehow, making it through Christmas, my birthday and both of theirs. None of them were easy, and although time provides relief, there won’t be a single holiday or life-changing event that I won’t wish they could share in.Early after my mother passed, I took the advice of a close friend who had recently lost her own parents. She told me to take care of myself. At first I didn’t understand what she meant, but forcing myself to sleep well and eat right meant that I felt stronger when the waves of sadness rolled in. I quit smoking. I exercised. I read as much as I could about loss of all kinds, and I practised keeping self-pity at the door. I refocused on being grateful for my supportive partner, loving friends and the bond I shared with my sister.Being in a psychiatric hospital felt wrong, but it was the turning point I needed | Anonymous Healthy control in the midst of emotional chaos was invaluable advice and could only have been passed down from someone who had experienced the same kind of suffering.My mum and dad will never be grandparents and they’ll never grow old. The people who taught me how to walk, how to speak, how to love and how to live are gone for ever. I will miss them until it is my time to go. I hope that the parents that they were made me strong enough to face this next chapter with grace, love and empathy. Traits I’ve grown to respect above all others. And I hope I can do them proud.