Rationing of any kind is always likely to make people sit up straight – the idea that we can’t buy as much of whatever we’d like causes instant consternation, even if it is iceberg lettuce. It causes some understandable confusion, too, in this case, as being only allowed three heads of the stuff prompts the question why you would ever want that many – of all the veg to pick from, iceberg has got to be up there with the least flavoursome items nature has ever come up with.And therein lies the solution to the current supermarket vegetable shortage: the best approach to filling your fridge – and eating your fill – is to be guided by flavour. This means scouring the veg aisles for what looks most vibrant. Flavour stems from vibrancy, and locally grown, seasonal produce is always going to be where it’s at. As Jane Scotter of biodynamic farm Fern Verrow puts it: “Things only taste good when grown in the right conditions and climate. I never buy lettuce or tomatoes out of season because they just don’t taste that good.” And what is good in Blighty right now are brassicas, leeks and root veg – swede, potatoes, celeriac, beets … Spring greens are coming into their own and purple sprouting broccoli – infinitely superior in flavour, according to organic farm Riverford’s Guy Watson, to the calabrese variety that the Spanish frosts have depleted – is mere weeks away from hitting our shelves. So it’s all about making do and being creative. And we’ve got the goods for you right here.BrassicasFirst up, there are many, many salads you can make with a good cabbage. “We probably have a raw cabbage salad at least three times a week at the moment,” says Scotter. Similarly, at Spring, which Fern Verrow supplies with fresh produce, Skye Gyngell has a brassica plant in nearly every dish on the menu, not that you’d know it from the variety of shapes and flavours she has wrought from them. Kale is the primary contender: serve it massaged with pear, pine nuts and crisp pecorino, warm with nduja or raw with lemon-baked ricotta. And you can’t wrong with a good slaw – the Hemsleys’ winter one combines cabbages with carrot, celeriac, celery, shallot and radish. Of course, you can bake, roast, braise, char and smother your brassicas, too. Then there’s this.Rachel Roddy’s cabbage and sausage cake      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cabbage and sausage cake. Photograph: Rachel Roddy for the GuardianThis is inspired by Rowley Leigh’s recipe for chou farci, or stuffed cabbage.Serves 41 large savoy cabbage20ml olive oilA small knob of butter, plus extra for greasing and dotting½ tsp fennel seeds (optional)500g lean, well-seasoned sausage meatSalt and black pepper1 Choose 7 of the largest, nicest outer cabbage leaves and wash them. Bring a large pan of well-salted water to the boil then blanch the leaves for 2 minutes. Use a slotted spoon to lift the leaves out, keeping the water. Rinse the leaves briefly with cold water and blot on a clean tea towel.2 Cut the rest of the cabbage into quarters and bring the water back to the boil. Cook the cabbage until the leaves are tender, but the stem still firm – about 5 minutes. Drain the cabbage and, once cool enough, squeeze out any excess water. Cut away the stem, chop the leaves roughly, put in a bowl and dress with the olive oil, a knob of butter, salt and pepper and some fennel seeds, if you like. Squeeze the sausage meat from the casing.3 Butter a 20cm round ovenproof dish. Choose the nicest leaf from the 7 you saved and put it at the bottom of the dish. Now arrange the other 6 so they cover the sides of the dish, overlapping a lot and hanging over the edges.4 Now, for the layers. Press a third of the dressed cabbage mixture into the bottom of the leaf-lined dish. Then make a layer with half the sausage meat, pressing it down firmly. Repeat the process, ending with a third layer of cabbage. Fold over the overhanging leaves and cover to make a neat parcel.5 Dot with a little butter and bake at 180C/350F/gas mark 4 for 1 hour. When ready, let it sit for 5 minutes before inverting on to a plate carefully, as there will be hot juices. Serve with rich tomato sauce, buttery mash, or both.LeeksYotam Ottolenghi serves his charred with whipped cheese and walnuts, or roasted with thyme and vermouth. Sarah Britton simmers hers with chickpeas in broth and tops them with dill, lemon zest and feta, while Claire Mazer’s leek and sage croustade is an excellent example of how baking them with butter and cheese can make something superlative. And, of course, you can use them raw.Fergus Henderson’s butter bean, leek and cauliflower salad  Butter bean, leek and cauliflower salad. Photograph: Yuli for the GuardianUnusually for a salad, this enjoys sitting, getting to know its dressing. It is inspired by my friend Ellen Hooberman – a master of the caper, garlic and chopped parsley.Serves 4-62 handfuls of dried butter beans2 heads of garlic1 cauliflower, taken apart into challenging bite-size florets4 leeks, sliced across at 5mm intervalsA bunch of curly parsley, finely choppedA handful of extra-fine capersFor the dressing300ml extra virgin olive oilJuice of 1 juicy or 2 not-so juicy lemons6 garlic cloves, peeled and well crushedSalt and black pepper1 Soak the butter beans overnight in cold water, then drain and cook in clean water with the heads of garlic –this can take 2-3 hours.2 Whisk all the dressing ingredients together and season to taste.3 Dress the cauliflower and butter beans liberally. Toss then leave overnight.4 When it’s time to serve, just tease the leeks for a moment in some boiling salted water. The warmth of the leek, added to the cauliflower and butter beans, should awaken the slumbering salad. Once awake, it may need some more dressing. Add the chopped parsley and the capers. Toss vigorously, being careful not to crush the butter beans, then serve.The Complete Nose to Tail by Fergus Henderson and Justin Piers Gellatly (Bloomsbury)Root vegGill Meller roasts his midwinter celeriac with chilli and thyme, or fashions it into a dauphinoise with garlic, anchovies, rosemary and grated parmesan; Nick Balfe makes a mean celeriac and almond risotto, and – because what’s to stop him? – a parsnip ice-cream. And the Fabulous Baker Brothers’ beetroot tarte tatin – made with freshly cooked beets, thyme and goat’s cheese – is an all-time root veg high. Oliver Rowe’s Food for All Seasons is a great reference when it comes to cooking with what’s at hand, as the below recipes demonstrate.Oliver Rowe’s mashed swede with baked eggs      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mashed swede with eggs. Photograph: Elena Heatherwick for the GuardianThe classic is, of course, mashed potato, but you can mash lots of root vegetables. Make sure they are still quite hot when you mash and mix them, because cold or undercooked ones may go gluey when mashed. Add herbs or spices, mustard (wholegrain is great for sausages and mash), leeks for champ, spring onions for colcannon, cabbage for bubble and squeak, chorizo, yoghurt or kefir to lighten and sharpen. Celeriac mash is also a winner, great with pork dishes; I use a potato or two in mine for consistency. And then there’s swede …Serves 42 swedes1 tsp salt1 bay leaf50g butter2 tbsp chives, chopped6 eggsCheddar, for grating1 Peel and roughly chop the swedes. Put in a saucepan with plenty of water, salt and a bay leaf. Bring to the boil and cook until soft. Drain and spread out on a baking tray for a few minutes. Mash until smooth, then add the butter and chives. Check for seasoning.2 Heat the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4. Spoon the mash into a baking dish in a layer about 3cm or so thick. Make 6 wells and break the eggs into them. Grate some cheddar over the top and place in the oven until the eggs have set and the cheese is golden brown.Oliver Rowe’s chrain      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Beetroote and horseradidh chrain. Photograph: Elena Heatherwick for the GuardianGrate beetroot into salads and dress with a tart vinaigrette, or quick-pickle it and shove it into a cheese sandwich. One of my favourite raw beetroot recipes is one I saw in Claudia Roden’s Book of Jewish Food. Chrain is the name for several horseradish condiments, but the one I like is mixed with finely grated raw beetroot. It is served as a condiment, like mustard, all over eastern Europe.Makes 1 pot2 beetroot3-5cm fresh horseradish, to taste1 tsp sugar2 tbsp red wine vinegarA pinch of salt1 Peel and finely grate the beetroot and horseradish, then combine in a bowl with all the other ingredients.2 The flavours mingle over time, so leave it for 1 hour, then check again and adjust seasoning accordingly.