A “subjective encyclopedia”, described by its creators as a “freak of publishing nature” designed to save a struggling Norwegian bookshop from closure, has proved a hit after a host of well-known names including Jarvis Cocker, George Saunders and Jonathan Lethem contributed entries. Written in Norwegian, Swedish, Danish and English, The Conversational Lexicon was the brainchild of bookseller Pil Cappelen Smith and Andreas Cappelen and was a last-ditch bid to stop their Oslo shop, Cappelens Forslag, from closing. The plan has paid off: each print run of the work, first published in 2014, has sold out and the future of the bookshop secured. The latest edition has just gone on sale.Cappelen Smith said: “The idea was to produce a book that would keep the store’s doors open and at the same time settle for good and all that inane discussion about which was the better format, the ebook or the paper book.”Contributions to the reference work were sought from leading artists and writers. All had to challenge traditional views of dictionaries as factual and authoritative, Cappelen Smith said. Instead they were to be conversation starters “freed from the demand for factual accuracy”.The initial print run of 1,100 books was crowdfunded by 450 supporters, who between them raised €50,524 (£43,582), more than double the funds initially sought. Editorial contributions to the illustrated reference book were made by 87 predominantly Scandinavian authors, artists and film-makers as well as a handful of English-speaking names added subsequently.Entries ignored consensus in favour of subjective examination, “lying to tell the truth; lighting words, people, places and concepts from new angles, just to see if they couldn’t mean something more or other than what they’d usually signified; to be messy, contradictory, wildly unpredictable,” Cappelen Smith said.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Binding The Conversational LexiconThose recruited to help were chosen for their “sense of playfulness and generosity of spirit, which is evident in their work”, he added. George Saunders was approached because “there’s a sort of delight with the possibility of language even in [his] darkest stories, combined with a keen sense of the absurd, that made me think he might be up for something like a commercially backwards, subjective encyclopedia built as a life raft for an independent bookstore”.Jarvis Cocker, who contributed an entry on dawdling – “pronounced door-dul … The key to a good word is fine rounded sounds” – had stopped at the shop on a visit to Oslo when he was approached. “Jarvis walked in to the store one afternoon in March, and by the time he left he’d signed on,” Cappelen Smith said.Freed from the constraints of factual accuracy and objectivity, contributors have responded with idiosyncratic verve. American author Ron Currie Jr provided a five-page exploration of death (“a state of being not entirely antonymous with life, but often misunderstood as such”). Danish writer Mathilde Walter Clark wrote a pithy definition of a writer’s studio as “very much like a painter’s studio or a sculptor’s, except full of imaginary objects, like these two Pecan Trees (Fig 17)”. The entry is followed by a blank space into which readers can project their own images of the trees.Karine Nyborg’s entry for asphalt is an evocative memory of cycling as a child. “You see the cars on the road trying to brake for you, soundlessly, like a silent movie, the wind fills your ears and you fly through the crossing; the world is open, it’s spring,” writes the author and academic. Rock’n’roll is defined simply with a picture of the late Mötorhead frontman Lemmy who died.Not all those approached agreed to take part. A polite refusal was received from Paul Auster, while Cappelen Smith is still waiting to hear from Stephen Fry, Laurie Anderson and Werner Herzog. His favourite entry? “Craig Clevenger’s Spontaneous Incorporeal Sentience.” That entry concludes: “While the theory remains hotly contested and without widespread acceptance, it is nonetheless gaining traction among younger academics who are quick to point out that self-aware intelligence, whose existence is relatively fleeting but nonetheless believes itself to be the centre of creation, is not without precedent in the universe.” The Conversational Lexicon is available in three editions – leather, hide and monkfish-bound. The latter is from a print run of three that retail for €1,000 each. The other cheapest edition retails at €74.