The weather has cooled, the garden is turning gold and there are nuts toasting in the kitchen. This cook couldn’t be happier. In the last few days alone I have made a simple pine kernel and sausage stuffing for roast birds; given deep roasted flavours to soft chocolate cookies; added crunch to tender root vegetables and made an addictive honey and nut butter for spreading on toast. What all these dishes celebrate is our love of seasonal hazelnuts and apples, pine kernels and figs, almonds and pistachios. The universal marriage of fruit and nut.Roast quail with pine kernels and figsI can eat two roast quail at a sitting, but if they are accompanied by crunchy sausagemeat balls and softly seedy baked figs then I am happy with just one. I suggest you start with a knife and fork, then attack the roasted birds with your hands, tearing and gnawing at the bones to your heart’s content. The legs, by the way, are delectable.Serves 6quail 6, oven readyolive oil 2-3 tbspsausages 400gpine kernels 50gshallot 1 largeolive oil a littlebutter 75gsage leaves 6figs 6thyme sprigs 8Set the oven at 200C/gas mark 6. Lightly brown the quails in a little olive oil in a shallow pan. Turn them regularly with kitchen tongs.Split the sausages and discard the skins, dropping the meat into a mixing bowl. In a shallow pan, toast the pine kernels then chop them roughly and add to the sausage meat. Peel and finely chop the shallot, then cook it in a little oil, or some of the butter, in the shallow pan till pale and translucent. Finely chop the sage leaves. Add the shallot and sage to the sausagemeat, mix thoroughly, then roll into 12 small balls.Warm a little more oil in the pan then brown the balls over a moderate heat. Season the quails with salt and pepper and arrange them, with space around them, in a roasting tin. Tuck the balls among the quail along with the figs, split open and squeezed at the base so they open up and reveal their seeds.Dot the quail with a little more of the butter and moisten with a trickle of oil. Scatter a few thyme sprigs among the birds and roast for 25-30 minutes, till the birds are lightly browned and firm to the touch. Serve a quail, a fig and a couple of stuffing balls per person.Roast root vegetables with almonds and spiced yogurt      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Roast root vegetables with almonds and spiced yogurt. Photograph: Jonathan Lovekin for the ObserverA simple way to spice up a dish of cheap roast root vegetables. Ras el hanout with its gentle, fragrant mix of cardamom, cloves, cinnamon and rose petals is available from most supermarkets, in the spice section.Serves 4 as a side dishcarrots 500gbeetroots 500g, smalllarge spring onions or banana shallots 6groundnut oil 3 tbspthyme 8 sprigsFor the dressingflaked almonds 3 tbspwalnut oil 2 tbspras el hanout 2 tspyogurt 200mlSet the oven at 200C/gas mark 6. Scrub the carrots then cook them for 8-10 minutes in boiling water. Drain and place them in a large roasting dish. Trim the beetroots, scrub them, then boil for 10 minutes. Cut the beetroot in half or into quarters depending on their size and add them to the carrots. Halve the spring onions lengthways then put them in the roasting dish with the oil, thyme sprigs and salt and pepper. (If using shallots peel and halve them.) Toss the vegetables together gently to coat them in the oil and seasonings.Roast the vegetables for 25-30 minutes till golden and lightly toasted, then remove from the oven and transfer to a serving dish. Pour any excess oil from the roasting dish, add the flaked almonds and place over a low heat. Stir in the walnut oil and the ras el hanout and cook for a minute or so, till the almonds are golden, watching carefully. Turn off the heat, stir in the yogurt then trickle over the roast vegetables.Pork, plum and pistachio salad      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pork, plum and pistachio salad. Photograph: Jonathan Lovekin for the ObserverSome wonderful textures going on here. The mixture of toothsome meat and its chewy fat, soft ripe plums, crunchy pistachios and soothing rice is thoroughly pleasing. A value for money dish too, despite the pistachios.Serves 4pork belly 800g, boned and skinned weightolive oil 3 tbspfennel seeds 2 tbspsmoked garlic a headplums 400gpistachios 100gsesame seeds 2 tbsp, black or whiteFor the ricewhite basmati rice 200gwater 200mlbay leaves 3cinnamon stick ½cumin seeds 1 tspcloves 4black peppercorns 6Slice the pork belly into 4cm thick strips and put them into a roasting tin. Pour over the olive oil, add the fennel seed and a grinding of sea salt and pepper and toss everything together. Set the oven at 200C/gas mark 6.Tuck the whole head of garlic, unbroken, among the pork and roast for an hour, turning the meat once or twice.Wash the rice in a bowl of cold water, swirling the grains round with your fingers. (I repeat this with fresh water, three times, but once is probably enough.) Tip the rice into a small saucepan and pour in the 200ml of water. Add the bay leaves, cinnamon stick, cumin seeds, cloves and peppercorns. Add half a teaspoon of salt and bring to the boil. Turn the heat down, cover tightly with a lid and leave to putter away for 10 minutes. Remove from the heat but do not remove the lid.Halve and stone the plums, cut them into quarters and put them in a bowl. Tear or slice the pieces of pork into short pieces and add them to the plums. Pop the golden cloves of garlic from their papery skins. Add the pistachios, chopped if you wish, the whole cloves of sweet roasted garlic and the sesame seeds. Run a fork through the rice to separate the grains, discard the cinnamon stick then fold into the plums and pork.Pour most of the fat from the roasting tin, leaving behind just a couple of tablespoons and the sticky bits in the roasting tin, then place the tin over a moderate heat. Tip the rice and plums into the roasting tin and stir gently, turning everything over with a wooden spoon, coating the rice in the cooking juices for the tin. Serve on warm plates.Toasted apple brioche, cashew and honey butter      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Toasted apple brioche, cashew and honey butter. Photograph: Jonathan Lovekin for the ObserverA treat. There are perfectly good cashew butters available in wholefood shops, but I like to make my own using roasted, salted nuts and honey. Sweet and nuttily salty, it is something for your breakfast toast too. You may find your apples sweet enough to allow you to dispense with the sugar.Enough for 4blueberries 150gwater 3 tbspgolden caster sugar 2 tbspbrioche 4 thick slicesFor the nut buttercashew nuts 130g salted and roastedliquid honey 1 tbspwalnut oil 1 tbspFor the applesapples 2 mediumbutter a thick slicegolden caster sugar 1 tbsp (optional)Put the blueberries into a small saucepan, add the water and sugar and bring to the boil. Lower the heat and leave for 5 minutes or until the berries burst and the juice turns deep purple. Set aside.For the nut butter, put the roasted cashews in the bowl of a food processor and blend to very fine crumbs, scraping down the sides with a rubber spatula as the nuts get nearer to a paste. Add the honey and walnut oil and briefly mix to a smooth, spreadable paste.Halve and quarter the apples, remove their cores then cut into thick segments. Warm the butter in a shallow pan, add the apples, then, if you think they need it, sprinkle with a thin layer of sugar (very sweet dessert apples will need little or none). Let the sugar and butter dissolve into a caramel, turning the apple slices with a spatula as they become golden and soft.Toast the brioche lightly on both sides then spread with the cashew and honey butter. Place the apples on top of the brioche, spoon over the caramel then trickle the blueberries over the top.Cardamom, chocolate and hazelnut cookies      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cardamom, chocolate and hazelnut cookies. Photograph: Jonathan Lovekin for the ObserverCrunchy chocolate nut cookies, crisp around the edges, soft within. The trick is not to over-bake them. They should still be soft and pale when you remove them from the oven. Don’t be tempted to smooth the dough as you put them onto the baking sheet; no one wants a uniform, characterless cookie.Makes 12-16 cookiesbutter 100gcaster sugar 120glight muscovado sugar 75gskinned hazelnuts 100gcashews 100g, roasted and salteddark chocolate 200ggreen cardamom about 12 podsegg 1vanilla extract ½ tspsalt ½ tspplain flour 175gbaking powder ½ tspBeat together the butter and sugars till soft and creamy. Set the oven at 180C/gas mark 4. Line a baking sheet with baking parchment (preferably two sheets, if you have them, so you can cook the biscuits in quick succession).Toast the hazelnuts in a dry, shallow pan till golden, shaking them regularly to brown evenly. Reduce half of them to coarse crumbs in a food processor or with a large kitchen knife. Cut the remaining nuts in half and set aside. Roughly chop the cashews and break the chocolate into small pieces. Crack open the cardamom pods and grind the seeds inside to give a full teaspoon of coarse powder. I find a pestle and mortar invaluable here, but you could use the end of a rolling pin.Break the egg into a bowl, mix lightly with a fork then, with the beater still turning, add to the butter and sugar. Mix in the vanilla extract and salt. Combine the flour and baking powder and, lowering the speed of the mixer, fold into the batter. Add the chopped chocolate, ground cardamom and chopped hazelnuts and half the cashews.Place heaped tablespoons of the mixture on the baking sheets, giving them room to spread. Press the reserved nuts into the surface. Bake for about 17 minutes (check after 15), removing them when they are pale gold and still soft. Leave for three or four minutes to settle, then transfer to a cooling rack. Best eaten warm, but they will keep for several days in a biscuit tin.