I began An Artist of the Floating World in September 1981, in a basement flat in Shepherd’s Bush, London. I was 26 years old. My first novel, A Pale View of Hills, was being prepared for publication, but at that point I had no sensible reason to believe I had before me a life as a full‑time novelist.Lorna and I had returned to London that summer (we’d been living in Cardiff), having secured new jobs in the capital, but no accommodation. A few years earlier, we’d both been part of a loose network of young, left-leaning, alternative types who lived in short-life housing around Ladbroke Grove and Hammersmith, and worked for charitable projects or campaign groups. It seems odd now to recall the carefree way we just turned up in the city that summer confident we’d be able to stay in one shared house or another until we found a suitable place of our own. As it turned out, nothing came along to challenge our complacency, and before long we’d found a small basement to rent just off the bustling Goldhawk Road.The flat adjoined the recording studios of the then cutting-edge Virgin Records, and we often glimpsed large hairy men heaving equipment in and out of the windowless, colourfully muralled building. But the sound-proofing was exemplary, and when I sat at our dining table, my back to our tiny rear garden, I had a more than adequate environment for writing.Lorna had by far the longer commute to work. She’d got a job as a local authority social worker in Lewisham on the other side of the city. My job was only a stone’s throw away – I’d become the “resettlement worker” for West London Cyrenians, a well-regarded organisation working with the homeless. To make things fairer, we came to an agreement: we’d get up at the same time each morning, and by the point Lorna was going out the door, I’d be installed at the table ready for my 90 minutes of early morning writing before I set off for my own job.Many superb works have been produced by writers holding down demanding jobs. But I have always been pathetically, almost pathologically, unable to divide my attention, and those several weeks I attempted to write at the dining table as the sun rose steadily to fill the basement have been to date my only attempt to write “part‑time”. It wasn’t an unqualified success. I found myself staring at blank sheets, battling the urge to go back to bed. (My day job soon grew intense, often obliging me to work late into the night.) Nor were things helped by Lorna’s insistence that I start each day with a bizarre breakfast made up of hideously coarse fibres sprinkled over with yeast and wheat germ – a recipe that would sometimes have me doubled up in my chair. All the same, it was during these sessions that the kernel – the story and central premise – of An Artist came to me more or less fully formed. I managed to write it up as a 15-page story (later published in Granta as “The Summer after the War”), but even as I did so, I knew I’d need a much larger, more complex architecture to build the idea into the novel I could already see, tantalisingly, in my imagination. Then the demands of my job put an end to my morning sessions altogether.The 100 best novels: No 94 – An Artist of the Floating World by Kazuo Ishiguro (1986) I didn’t return to An Artist in earnest until the winter of 1982. By then, A Pale View of Hills had been published to what was, for a first novel, very reasonable noise. The book had found publishers in the US and in several foreign languages, and had got me on the inaugural Granta list of the 20 Best of Young British Novelists due to be unveiled the following spring. My writing career still looked precarious, but I now had reasons to be bold, and I quit my job to become a full-time writer.We moved to south-east London, to occupy the top floor of a tall Victorian house in a quiet neighbourhood of Upper Sydenham. Our kitchen lacked a sink, obliging us to load dirty dishes on to an old tea trolley and wheel it into the bathroom. But we were now closer to Lorna’s work, and we could set the alarm for much later. The hideous breakfasts ceased.The house was owned by Michael and Lenore Marshall, a wonderful couple in their early 60s who lived downstairs, and we soon got into the routine of gathering in their kitchen (which had a sink) at the end of each working day to share tea, Mr Kipling cakes and rambling, often hilarious conversation about books, politics, cricket, the advertising industry, the eccentricities of the English. (A few years later, following Lenore’s sudden death, I dedicated The Remains of the Day to her memory.) Also around this time I was offered work by the soon-to-be-launched Channel 4, and it was my experience of working as a television screenwriter (I eventually had two single dramas broadcast on that channel) that was to have a significant, if contrary impact on the writing of An Artist.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The quiet life … Sydenham. Photograph: Martin Godwin for the GuardianI found myself rather obsessively comparing pages from my screenplays – essentially dialogue plus directions – with pages from my published novel, and asking myself, “Is my fiction sufficiently different from a screenplay?” Whole hunks of A Pale View looked to me awfully similar to a screenplay – dialogue followed by “direction” followed by more dialogue. I began to feel deflated. Why bother to write a novel if it was going to offer more or less the same experience someone could have by turning on a television? How could the novel, as a form, hope to survive against the might of cinema and TV if it couldn’t offer something unique, something the other forms couldn’t properly do? (In the early 1980s, I should point out, the contemporary novel seemed in much more fragile health than it does today.) I had a clear idea, from those morning efforts in Shepherd’s Bush, of the story I wanted to write. But in Sydenham I now entered an extended period of experimenting with different ways to tell it. I was determined that my new novel wouldn’t be a “prose screenplay”. But what then could it be? Working at Channel 4, I felt deflated: why write a novel if it offered the same experience as turning on the TV? It was at this time I came down with a virus and spent a few days in bed. Once I came out of the worst of it, and no longer felt like sleeping for hours on end, I discovered that the book I’d brought to bed, the object now rolling about inside my duvet, was the first volume of the recently published Kilmartin and Scott-Moncrieff translation of Marcel Proust’s Remembrance of Things Past. It’s possible my sick-bed circumstances provided a heightened context for this work (I was not then, nor am I now, an unqualified Proust fan: I find swaths of his writing crushingly boring), but I became completely riveted by the “Overture” and “Combray” sections. I went over them again and again. Quite aside from the sublime beauty of these passages, I was thrilled by what I then called in my mind (and later in my notes) Proust’s “methods of movement” – the means by which he got one episode to lead into the next. The ordering of events and scenes didn’t follow the demands of chronology, nor those of an unfolding linear plot. Instead, tangential thought associations, or the vagaries of memory seemed to move the novel from one section to the next. Sometimes the very fact that the present episode had been triggered by the previous one raised the question “Why?” For what reason had these two seemingly unrelated moments been placed side by side in the narrator’s mind? I could now see an exciting, freer way of composing my novel; one that could produce richness on the page and offer inner movements impossible to capture on a screen. If I could go from one passage to the next according to the narrator’s thought associations and drifting memories, I could compose almost in the way an abstract painter might choose to place shapes and colours around a canvas. I could put down a scene from two days ago right beside one from 20 years earlier, and ask the reader to ponder the relationship between the two. Often the narrator himself would not need to know fully the deeper reasons for a particular juxtaposition. I could see a way of writing that could properly suggest the many layers of self-deception and denial that shrouded any person’s view of their own self and past. Breakthrough moments for a novelist are often like this: scruffy, private little events. Looking back now, I can see that those three days recovering from a virus in a bedroom in Sydenham, going over the same 20 pages of Proust, were a key turning point in my writing life – one much more significant than, say, the receiving of a major award or walking down red carpets at film premieres. Everything I have subsequently written has been determined by the revelations that came to me during those days.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michael Foot leads a CND march to Hyde Park, London, in 1983. Photograph: Martin Argles for the GuardianI should say something here about the Japanese aspect of An Artist. It is, in a literal sense, the most Japanese of my novels, being set entirely in Japan with only Japanese characters. The language in the novel – the first-person narration and the dialogue – is understood to be in Japanese, even though the novel is presented in English. In other words, you are supposed to imagine this book is some kind of translation: that behind the English sentences are Japanese ones. This strategy had implications for every word I wrote on the page. I wanted the language to flow and to feel natural, and yet it couldn’t become too colloquial – too “English”. At times I found myself translating Japanese phrases and pleasantries quite literally. But most of the time it was a case of finding an elegant yet slightly stilted register that would suggest the rhythms and stylised formality of the Japanese language running all the time behind the English.Lastly, let me add a note concerning the larger social context in which the novel was created. An Artist was written between 1981 and 1985, years of crucial, often fractious and bitter transition in Britain. The governments of Margaret Thatcher had brought an end to the postwar political consensus about the welfare state and the desirability of a “mixed” economy (in which key assets and industries are owned publicly as well as privately). There was an overt and strident programme to transform the country from one based on manufacturing and heavy industries, with large organised workforces, into a predominantly service-based economy with a fragmented, flexible, non-unionised labour pool. It was the era of the miners’ strike, the Wapping dispute, CND marches, the Falklands war, IRA terrorism, an economic theory – “monetarism” – that characterised deep cuts to public services as the necessary medicine to heal a sick economy. I remember falling out badly with one of my oldest and closest friends over dinner as we took opposing views on the miners’ strike. This novel is set in Japan before and after the second world war, but it was very much shaped by the Britain in which I was then living: the pressures on people in every walk of life to take political sides; the rigid certainties, shading into self-righteousness and sinister aggression, of ardent, often youthful factions; the agonising about the “role of the artist” in a time of political change. And for me personally: the nagging sense of how difficult it is to see clearly above the dogmatic fervours of one’s day; and the fear that time and history would show that for all one’s good intentions, one had backed a wrong, shameful, even evil cause, and wasted one’s best years and talents to it.A 30th anniversary edition of An Artist of the Floating World will be published by Faber on 30 June.