Arena: The Roundhouse – The People’s Palace 10pm, BBC4This profile of the storied London venue begins in the 1960s with drugs, “happenings” and counter-culture. It ends with the current staff having a bake-off. It’s tempting to see this as a metaphor for the pacification of pop culture over the intervening years. However, this one-off programme does emphasise the Roundhouse’s adaptability: it’s embraced enough change in its 50 years to suggest that further reinvention is always possible. Phil HarrisonVirginia McKenna’s Born Free 7pm, Channel 4In this evocative documentary marking the 50th anniversary of family favourite Born Free, the Bafta-winning actor and Born Free Foundation co-founder returns with her son to Kenya, where she and her late husband Bill Travers filmed their rather risky “life with the lions” drama. The film set her and Bill off on a life of animal-rights activism, while doing much to alter the public perception of wildlife in captivity. Ali CatterallHorizon: The Wildest Weather In The Universe 8pm, BBC2Thanks to the birth of extra-terrestrial meteorology, idle chit-chat about the weather is now an interplanetary matter. It’s always been clear that other planets have weather that put our own temperate fluctuations to shame; Jupiter’s red spot, big enough to accommodate two Earths, is a perma-storm that has raged since Galileo’s time. Still more fabulous is the story of Saturn, where rains come in downpours of diamonds and rubies. David StubbsPoldark 9pm, BBC1Things are looking dire for Ross and Demelza, with their prospecting serving up precious little of the copper they hoped for. Ross is up in court too, after the smuggling incident; but such concerns begin to fade when he makes a different discovery, one that could turn around the mine’s fortunes. And just in the nick of time. Meanwhile, as Elizabeth’s mother falls ill, George makes her an offer she can’t refuse. But it will come at some considerable cost. Ben ArnoldTutankhamun 9pm, ITVThe second instalment of ITV’s mini series dramatising Howard Carter’s search for the final resting place of the titular boy pharaoh. Tutankhamun aspires to the status of both proper British drama and classic ripping yarn – sort of a cross between Downton Abbey and Raiders Of The Lost Ark – and while it reaches neither of those heights, it’s serviceable matinee-variety fare. Tonight, the hunt for the tomb wrestles for airtime with a love triangle subplot. Andrew MuellerChicago Med 9pm, UniversalThere’s much mopping up to do of old plot lines and fresh bodily fluids as the medical element in Law & Order overlord Dick Wolf’s Chicago franchise returns for season two. Dr Rhodes and Dr Choi both get off to rocky starts in their new roles, April struggles with her TB diagnosis, and Sarah accepts a psych residency after helping a suicidal teenager. Professional and romantic rivalries are brought up sharp by a miracle involving a newborn baby. Bella Todd CBBC @ R1’s Teen Awards 2016 6pm, CBBCCBBC is going access all areas at the Radio 1 teen awards. Presenters Paddy, Matt and Lauren are backstage with the winners and performers, who include fierce girl band Little Mix, the ubiquitous Jess Glynne and Joe Jonas’s saucy side-project DNCE. Last year saw a surprise appearance from prince of pop Justin Bieber, so it looks like the promised “very special guests” aren’t likely to disappoint this time around. Hannah Verdier Film choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eight is enough ... Alec Guinness in Kind Hearts And Coronets. Photograph: Everett/REX ShutterstockKind Hearts And Coronets(Robert Hamer, 1949) Sunday, 8pm, GoldHamer’s class-critical Ealing comedy has one of the greatest screen dressing-up acts: Alec Guinness impersonating all eight of the snooty D’Ascoyne family, male and female, spanning half a century. There are other treasures, too: the suave malice of Dennis Price’s draper’s assistant-cum serial killer Mazzini; the portrayal of Edwardian England and its snobby mores; and the delicious glee with which the awful upper classes are dispatched. With family bitterness, betrayal and murder on a scale to rival the Borgias, this is a cold and subversive comedy. Paul HowlettThe Chronicles Of Narnia: The Voyage Of The Dawn Treader(Michael Apted, 2010), 6.45pm, E4Young Edmund (Skandar Keynes) and Lucy (Georgie Henley) Pevensie, plus cowardly cousin Eustace (Will Poulter), set sail on this third Narnia adventure, this time aboard King Caspian’s galleon the Dawn Treader. The magical opening, in which a seascape on a bedroom wall comes to life, sets the tone for another beautifully staged, if slightly underpowered, chapter in the CS Lewis series. PHThe Grand Budapest Hotel(Wes Anderson, 2014), 9pm, Channel 4What a wacky delight this loopy comedy is. Set in the eponymous hotel in a fictional, mittel-European town called Zubrowka, where legendary concierge Monsieur Gustave (a superb Ralph Fiennes) and orphan bellboy Zero (Tony Revolori) become embroiled in a struggle for a priceless painting. There’s a hilarious script, a host of colourful characters, a wealth of zany action, and, best of all, the fantastical hotel itself: a triumph of eccentric design, like a pastel-hued Gormenghast. PHDownfall(Oliver Hirschbiegel, 2004) 11.20pm, BBC2This extraordinary account of the last days of the Nazis was criticised for humanising Hitler. That might be the case, but Bruno Ganz’s intense performance portrays the Führer as a grotesque failure; a charismatic leader who, in private, is a petulant child. Holed up in his bunker as the Russians devastate Berlin, he’s the epitome of deluded evil rather than superhuman monster, dreaming of victory to the end. PHToday’s best live sportTest Cricket: Bangladesh v England 4.45am, Sky Sports 2 The fourth day’s action from Chittagong.Premier League Football: Chelsea v Manchester United 3.30pm, Sky Sports 1 Two Europa League contenders lock horns at Stamford Bridge (Kick-off 4pm).Formula 1: The United States Grand Prix 7.30pm, Sky Sports F1 All the latest rubber-burning news from Austin, Texas. 