Alex Jones swapped places with co-host Matt Baker on The One Show sofa on Wednesday evening in a nod to the ongoing row over the positioning of BBC Breakfast presenters Dan Walker and Louise Minchin.Walker’s position to the left of Minchin after replacing Bill Turnbull on BBC Breakfast sparked a sexism row. Former Countryfile host Miriam O’Reilly blamed “deep-rooted misogyny” for the decision to hand Walker, who is far less experienced than his co-host a position seen by some in the industry as the more prestigious spot. Jones said: “Some of you may be freaked out because we’ve just swapped sides because of the news this morning that the male presenter always sits on the left so we thought we’d change it up.”BBC Breakfast seating bias due to 'misogyny', says ex-Countryfile host Jones also referred to viewers commenting on the switch on Twitter, with one viewer claiming they were watching the show in the mirror to reverse the change.Sarah (@mummybabylife)Can't deal with @MissAlexjones and Matt Baker sitting the other way around on The One Show @BBCOneMarch 16, 2016Alison Brazier. (@AlisonBrazier1)On the one show tonight they've swapped side! Is this because of your debate on radio 2? I still look at Alex whether left or right!March 16, 2016George Gawronska (@GeorgeGawronska)@BBCTheOneShow I'm watching The One Show in the mirror.Can't get used to vision, seeing Matt Baker on the right and Alex Jones on the leftMarch 16, 2016Baker asked guest Caitlin Moran if she had noticed the swap, who joked that she had just thought Jones was “more powerful” and Baker was “more attractive”. It is the first time this month the male presenter on the 7pm magazine show has sat on the right-hand side of the sofa. When Vernon Kay guest presented he was sat to the right of Jones, and when Fearne Cotton, Connie Huq, Denise Lewis and Zoe Ball stood in for Jones, they were all seated to the right of Baker.Jones and Minchin were absent from BBC Breakfast on Thursday morning as they usually present shows only from Monday to Wednesday. Their replacements were Charlie Stayt and Naga Munchetty, with the former positioned on the left.A BBC spokesperson said: “This was a lighthearted reference to yesterday’s news. There is no seniority attached to presenter seating positions on The One Show and that was demonstrated in this playful, but topical segment.”