Positivity Radio is a suite of online stations created by Noel Edmonds, each catering to music that matches your mood (or very narrow band of interest). There’s a station dedicated to Bristol, one for helping plants grow and, inevitably, one for pure Noel Edmonds. Is this the future of curated playlists? After listening for an entire day, maybe not…12:20pm My first destination is Positively Noel, a radio station about Noel Edmonds. He’s telling a meandering anecdote about butterflies and spirit orbs.12:23pm Time for Phone A Pet. Noel phones the owner of a cat that habitually urinates on a sofa (“Did you buy it at DFS? Because that would explain everything,” he chides) and asks to be put through to the cat. But first, Love Changes Everything by Climie Fisher.12:35pm Three songs later and Phone A Pet has vanished; Noel’s reciting an anecdote about Billy Connolly almost swearing on Swap Shop. I switch to Positively Monaco, which offers “Glamour, style & exclusivity”. It’s playing Video Killed The Radio Star by the Buggles.1:14pm Next I try Positively Successful (“Achieve your ambitions”) but it’s just a one-note drone and some birdsong. Unfortunately, since none of my ambitions involve wanting to feel like I’m undergoing a Clockwork Orange-style brainwashing experiment, I move on.1:17pm I do like the birdsong element, though, so it’s Positively Birdsong next, for a full hour and a half. It’s inoffensive, plus I know that I won’t be blindsided by another anti-DFS tirade here.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hello, is it me you are looking for? Keith Chegwin and Edmonds phone some cats in the 70s. Photograph: BBC/Unique TV3:03pm None of these stations have ads. How do they make money? I find a video where Noel explains Positivity Radio, against what looks like a green-screened BBC newsroom. “This is one of the most exciting business tools of all time,” he says. “The majority of business people are sheeple.” It’s been watched 389 times since February.3:06pm OK, Noel wants brands to pay him to make their online radio stations. I find another page that reads: “CONSUMERS ARE IN CONTROL. THE CONSUMER IS NOW A BROADCASTER.” I’m so creeped out by this – it’s like a warning from a David Lynch film about Scientology – that I give up.Alan Partridge on Noel Edmonds – ‘He is a total wazzock and I cannot stand him’ 3:47pm Positively Ocean requires headphones, because it targets specific brainwaves. I can’t find my headphones, so I listen without. It’s a combination of wub-wub noises, crashing waves and seagulls.3:51pm I find my headphones. Still just wub-wub noises and seagulls.4:46pm Much of Positively Laughing, chillingly, is just the disembodied sound of Noel Edmonds’s laughter. I last three minutes, leaving as it segues into a clip of Susanna Reid accidentally alluding to masturbation.4:49pm Back now to Positively Noel. He’s doing a quiz called Disastermind. The subject is Prisoner: Cell Block H but, for reasons I cannot comprehend, the answer to every question is “Lord Archer”. Defeated by this berserk melange of new-age soundscapes, fractured business sense and egomania, I switch back to Positively Birdsong, leave the room and don’t return.Listen at positivityradio.world