In early October, a little more than a hundred people gathered in an unlikely event space in New York City to talk about farming. They discussed water usage and efficient transportation, the price of LEDs and intellectual property concerns.This was the first time the event, dubbed Indoor Ag Con, was held in New York, and it brought together the founders of alternative farming companies like BrightFarm, Aerofarms and Gotham Greens alongside technologists, lighting experts and researchers. Indoor agriculture refers to an increasingly popular form of crop cultivation that happens inside, making it less of a traditional farm and more of a manufacturing facility. Where traditional farms rely on irrigation systems, soil and sunlight, indoor farms use LEDs or high pressure sodium lamps, and grow in hydroponic or aeroponic systems. Without bugs, proponents say, pesticides can be reduced and the overall product is not only more controlled but healthier.Critics, however, warn that indoor agriculture is an energy-intensive way for companies to take over areas of food production where family farms and small businesses have excelled in recent years, as demand for local, organic products has increased.Indoor agriculture is still in its infancy, but the CEO of Chicago-based FarmedHere, Matt Matros, signals a new type of food entrepreneur. Like a lot of people in the industry, Matros comes from a non-agriculture background. He worked as a brand manager at Kraft Foods, then went on to found the restaurant chain Protein Bar. After selling the company, he went on a sabbatical abroad, which got him thinking about the lack of access to fresh produce in many areas around the world.That landed him at FarmedHere, founded in Illinois in 2011. Now in a 90,000 square-foot facility in Chicago’s Bedford Park, the largest indoor farm in North America uses aquaponics to produce organic herbs and leafy greens, distributed to grocery stores and restaurants in the Chicago area. And they’re looking to grow even bigger.“It’s been a number of hobbyists who have scraped together a few thousand [dollars] to make an indoor farm and have tried to make it a little bit bigger and a little bit bigger,” says Matros. “But there’s no one really professionalizing it or automating it, or fully putting capitol towards making big farms to feed lots of people. And I think the industry is about to tip.”He hopes to do so by becoming the local farm for every community in the country. Matros is planning to open about 20 new facilities across the US that serve consumers within a 200-mile radius.“Each farm is fully modular. I joke that each farm is like a Lego block and you just need to drop it wherever you want to put a farm,” Matros says. “We have these Lego boxes and we know how they work and we just have to put them together and drop them.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   FarmedHere executives examine a crop of organic basil. Photograph: FarmedHereIn each region, Matros hopes the company can work with local farmers to incorporate their goods into FarmedHere’s distribution. In Florida, for example, they could work with citrus farmers; in New York, with dairy farmers. While Matros plans to capitalize on the demand for local produce, the manufacturing feel of indoor farms contradicts the bucolic, idealized version of what consumers envision. There are no young families strolling through the windswept furrows under the bright sun. When Matros explains what it’s like to walk through the facilities, he likens it to a Costco, but instead of pallets of Huggies or Cheerios, it’s full of beds of plants bathed in purple-hued LED lights. “We build farms that are sort of like Disneylands of farming,” he says. “Consumers in each municipality can really feel like they’re part of the community, and see where their food is being grown. It’s similar to a farmers’ market where you go and meet the farmer and see pictures of the operation.”With the company’s expansion will come new crops and products. At the moment, FarmedHere grows greens and herbs. “No pun intended, but it’s low hanging fruit for indoor farming,” Matros says. The next phase is to start making value-added products like salad dressings to get more mileage out of the crops. With this kind of progress, FarmedHere moves even further from being a traditional farm, entering the food manufacturer realm. While Matros hopes to one day grow more challenging crops, like avocados, the system still needs perfecting. While LED efficiency is increasing, the energy it takes to simulate sunlight and maintain proper temperatures is huge. It’s not hard to find people who don’t believe that indoor farming is a panacea. In a presentation this September, Bruce Bugbee from Utah State University’s Department of Plants, Soils and Climate made the case that the fossil fuels needed to support the crops would add up to about $400,000 per acre. And even though lights are getting more efficient, the amount of solar panels needed would take up about five times the area as the cropland itself.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Lou Albright, professor emeritus at Cornell University estimated in a February 2014 presentation that each pound of lettuce created in an indoor farm would require about eight pounds of carbon dioxide. But the indoor agriculture industry isn’t dissuaded. “You know, when they start colonizing Mars, they’re going to need vertical farms to help feed the people there,” Matros says. And as the New York Indoor Ag Con came to a close, founder Nicola Kerslake announced that next year’s Las Vegas convention would be held in an aircraft hangar – attendance is expected to double. 