The most remarkable thing about the first trailer for Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life, is how good it looks. For anyone who has watched the old episodes on Netflix recently, it just looks so dated. The technology back then wasn’t geared toward watching television programs on anything other than the bulk square television sets we had back in the early 2000s. The footage from the four-part Netflix revival is crisp, clean and suited for the digital age. And so are our heroines. The trailer finally let us in on some of the key plot points that we can expect when everyone returns to Stars Hollow for some existential romantic angst and a lot of snappy dialogue. Lorelai is living with Luke, even though some of the spark is gone after almost a decade of being together. Rory is traveling around the world from London to New York and back to her sleepy town in Connecticut searching for her identity. However, at one point she mentions that she has no job. Does that mean she gets fired or she was just traveling for the fun of it and not for work?   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Strangely we get the most insight into Emily, who lost her husband Richard and, after memorializing him with a giant portrait in the family mansion, she’s now re-examining who she is as a person. She made the mistake of reading Marie Kondo’s The Life Changing Magic of Tidying Up and the ultimate Wasp is shedding all of her possessions in an attempt to bring joy into her life. There will be lots of joy when everyone gets to see all of their favorite residents of the town. Though she wasn’t initially asked, Melissa McCarthy is back as Sookie and pornographically shooting icing all over the bakery. Milo Ventimiglia (minus the moustache he wears on his new hit This Is Us) shares a drink with Rory, Matt Czuchry sits on a couch, and Liza Weil is walking through a courthouse with her short bob like she’s still on How to Get Away with Murder. There’s also a runaway pig, lots of walking and talking, and some sweeping vistas of the quaint little town that contains so many personalities. Good thing they upgraded how well they shot this!Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life hits Netflix on 25 November