1) Grab the listener’s attention within five secondsMany of the Beatles’ songs start with the musical equivalent of an alarm clock. Consider the fanfare of brass on All You Need Is Love, the stark chord on A Hard Day’s Night, or the harp on She’s Leaving Home. Sometimes it is the words that do this trick (eg Paul’s solitary “hey” which starts Hey Jude, or John’s shout of “help!” in the intro to the song of the same name). Indeed, if the music does not offer an initial clarion call, then John and Paul’s voices do. If the lyrics are not the strong point of a song, then it could start out with a riff (I Feel Fine, Day Tripper). Also consider the attention-grabbing intro to Glass Onion, which starts off with a drum beat like someone knocking on a door.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 2) Use powerful wordsBesides “you” and “love”, few Beatles songs are without at least one of the following words: alright, day, dream, goodbye, hello, heart, home, life, mother, pain, shine. They are common and resonant enough to allow both the songwriter and the listener to place their own personal meanings on them.3) Tell the listener what to do in the first line Consider the invitation for the listener to join John on Strawberry Fields Forever, the enticement to “listen” at the start of Do You Want to Know a Secret, the plea for assistance on Help, the invocation to “turn off” our minds on Tomorrow Never Knows, or – and this is cheating, as it is not a Beatles song – the enticement to picture a better world on John Lennon’s Imagine (though not many people have noticed, he tried a similar ruse on early Beatles B-side I’ll Get You). All of these are the first words the listener hears in each song. Doing this demands attention and puts the onus on the songwriter to continue a conversation with them.4) Use scat soundsThe use of scat sounds can be a quick and effective way of communicating a happy emotion. As a means of expressing delight, John and Paul sing “wooo” after the word “satisfied” on From Me to You and after “glad” on She Loves You. In a similar way, John sings “ewww” before “I need your love” on Eight Days a Week and “umummmmm” after the chorus on I Feel Fine, while sheer joy is evoked on the coda to Hey Jude and when George slips “do-n-do-do” in the middle of the chorus on Here Comes the Sun.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 5) Study the Lennon/McCartney chorusThe most common Lennon/McCartney chorus is a line that is sung twice, the second time in a slight variation. In We Can Work It Out, when “out” is sung a second time in the chorus, it is lengthened. For Paperback Writer, the second line is sung with a vocal harmony. Usually, the change in emphasis is done to make the second line more easily fit into the pace or the key of the verse that follows the chorus. She Loves You, I Want to Hold Your Hand, Can’t Buy Me Love, Yellow Submarine, Eleanor Rigby and Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds are other examples. Another formula is the pay-off line. On Get Back, the title is sung three times in the chorus, followed by a line that explains where the person in question should “get back” to. Let It Be, All You Need Is Love, I Am the Walrus, The Ballad of John and Yoko, Ticket to Ride and Day Tripper all have choruses made up of four lines, with the last line including a pay-off. 6) Move from one thrill to the next every 10-15 seconds The average Beatles’ A-side crams in eight to 14 sections over two to three minutes giving the listener a constant flow of new activity. The group’s ability to ingeniously weld together these sections, which often change on repetition, was one of their strengths. Their most compact single was We Can Work It Out, which crams an incredible 13 sections into two minutes and 16 seconds; on average a change every 10 seconds. Its structure runs: verse, chorus, verse, chorus, middle eight, verse, chorus, verse, a truncated middle eight, verse, chorus and coda. Note that while some of these sections are repeated, there are five unique sections to We Can Work It Out, as there are on Eleanor Rigby and Get Back; two tracks also notable for their ingenious structures. Eleanor Rigby: high-pitch chorus, verse, low-pitch chorus, verse, low-pitch chorus, high-pitch chorus, verse, low-pitch and high-pitch vocal chorus combined. Get Back: intro, verse, chorus, guitar solo, chorus, Hammond organ solo, verse, chorus, guitar solo, chorus, coda, chorus.7) Use screams to inject some wildness into your musicThe public craves drama as a contrast to their routine lives, and so appreciates extremes of passion in their music. This excitement is the essence of rock’n’roll. One of the many ways the Beatles met this requirement was through the large number of screams used on their recordings. A scream, if well-emitted and believable, can add an electric charge to a song. Notable screams include the one that set off the guitar solos on Can’t Buy Me Love and A Hard Day’s Night, the scream mid-song on Slow Down and the ones at the intros to Money and Revolution and at the end of Hey Jude. Sometimes it was the backing vocals that delivered them – consider the way John and Paul encourage Ringo’s lead vocal on Boys from their debut album, or the rising crescendo of backing vocals on songs like Day Tripper.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 8) Use a high note for happy and a low note for sad This rule is so simple it is banal, but if you think it does not apply to you, you are wrong. From the beginning to the end of their career, the Beatles followed such practice because listeners love it. Starting from the simple high notes for the word “glad” and a low note for the rhyming “bad” in She Loves You, to the way the guitar riff on Help lunges after the word “down”, to the way John sings the word “high” as one of the highest notes in Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds there are endless examples of how they used it. Once you have tried this, you can apply notes, chords and timing to convey more complex emotions. In Let It Be, Paul not only sings the first high notes when mentioning his mother, but introduces the first minor chord in the song at this point, too.9) Scrap your first 20 songs This is a tough message if your songs are a labour of love that take weeks or months to complete, but if they are taking that long then perhaps you are doing something wrong. A few people have had hits with the first songs they wrote, but not many. Chances are you will not write anything you can be proud of until you have some experience. The Beatles inadvertently followed this advice, by taking four years to get their first recording contract. It was once boasted by a Beatles PR man that John Lennon and Paul McCartney had written 100 songs in this time, though later Paul admitted it was actually closer to 20. Your early songs need not come to nothing. John and Paul regularly salvaged and rebuilt them later in their career, including I’ll Follow the Sun, I Call Your Name, Michelle, What Goes On and One After 909.The Beatles' Rubber Soul is 50: and it's still ahead of its time 10) Be a hero Most of us are attracted to people who live more heroic, glamorous lives, simply because they have escaped the regular, nine to five existence most of us live. Being a fan of this artist helps us vicariously experience this escape, too, through buying their music, T-shirts, posters, books etc. Consider the following heroic steps taken by the Beatles: they wore their hair long when it was considered shocking, they were the first to use feedback on a No 1 record (I Feel Fine), they put sexual innuendo on a No 1 record (Day Tripper) in the knowledge that if it were discovered it would be banned. They were pioneers in the use of many instruments, including the sitar, mellotron and synthesiser, while pioneering recording techniques such as automatic double-tracking and backwards guitar. They spoke out against the Vietnam war when it was taboo. They had the longest No 1 single of its time: Hey Jude. On their first trip to the USA, as the world’s biggest entertainment phenomenon, they championed black artists such as Smokey Robinson, when segregation of races was still common. They recorded a single All You Need Is Love live for the first international telethon. There must be many more examples …The 10-point guide is an extract from Help! Songwriting, Recording and Career Tips, an e-book available on Amazon.