Last year my colleague and I decided to quit our jobs out of frustration. Not with the work per se, but just with the way our organisations were run. We were convinced things didn’t need to be this way, and set out to find workplaces full of happy employees.Our Corporate Rebels project identified more than 50 business leaders, entrepreneurs and academics who inspired us with their pioneering work. We are now spending a year meeting them, learning from them and sharing their stories. These are some of the most striking so far.Belgium federal social security service, Brussels      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Frank Van Massenhove. Photograph: PR Company HandoutOK, it doesn’t have a sexy name. But one of the things we were looking for was organisations that give their people freedom and autonomy, and Frank van Massenhove, the service’s president, does just that.“Here people can work wherever and whenever they want, as long as they achieve the results we all agreed upon,” he told us during a visit to his extraordinary workplace. On an average working day, only 150 civil servants out of the total workforce of 1,070 are in the office. Some prefer to work from home, others in a co-working space closer to home, or even in a cafe. “I know that more people work on a rainy Sunday than on a sunny Wednesday, but really, I don’t care,” van Massenhove says.His approach has greatly increased the appeal of the workplace. In 2002, only 18% of the recently graduated civil servants wanted to work for the service. After the transition, 93% of the applicants prefer to work for Van Massenhove’s department.BvdV, UtrechtWhether it’s through self-management, inverting the hierarchical pyramid or pushing down authority, the pioneering organisations excel in distributing leadership across the organisation.A good example of this is Dutch law firm BvdV. Founder Sjoerd van der Velden says: “The centralised decision making at traditional firms is based on control, even though that’s just a false sense of security. You can’t control everything and you shouldn’t want that. You should trust that your employees want to get the best out of themselves and the firm.”Therefore, at BvdV, employees decide on all aspects themselves. They have full decision making authority on aspects such as hiring, customer acquisition, finance and even setting their own salaries, from founder to secretary. The result is a highly engaged, motivated and entrepreneurial workforce.Martina van Eldik, on of BvdV’s lawyers said: “I’m very proud of the high degree of entrepreneurship and engagement within the organisation. I personally love that I have full authority and ownership over everything I do myself and what we do as an organisation.”Zingerman’s food, Ann Arbor      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ari Weinzweig, CEO of Zingerman’s. Photograph: PR ImageIn a world where information is readily available and where people need to have access to information anytime and anywhere, it seems like common sense that transparency can help to improve the workplace. Sadly, in the majority of traditional organisations “towers of knowledge” do still exist.In the US at Zingerman’s, an Ann Arbor based community of food businesses, we witnessed the strong influence of transparency on employee engagement. In a weekly “open book management session” of one of its businesses, employees discussed that week’s most important results: customer satisfaction, revenues, profits, etc. “Whether you’re a dishwasher or an owner, everyone is responsible for the financial performance of the organisation,” says founder and CEO Ari Weinzweig. While lots of CEOs will make similar comments, there won’t be lots of organisations where, as with Zingerman’s, the kitchen staff take great delight in explaining last week’s net operating profit to you.One employee said: “In previous jobs I was just expected to fulfil my standard tasks. Since I started working here I feel that I use parts of my brain that I wasn’t using before. I feel like I am actually running a business and that I contribute to it in a valuable way.”Hollands Kroon, north-west NetherlandsDuring the visits to our “bucket list” heroes, we were persistently inspired by the high levels of trust within the organisations. They all have abandoned the command-and-control approach, and instead trust their employees in their decision making.Dutch municipality Hollands Kroon showed this to us in practice. Together with two other directors, Anja van der Horst, they decided to radically transform their traditional organisation towards self-management. Trust turned out to be a crucial aspect of this change.“Organising is quite simple – just get rid of the rules. Once you get rid of the rules and once you let employees decide how to work, mistakes will be made. The hardest part is not interfering when something goes wrong. If you interfere, it will never work.”One of the employees said the trust of their employers was not taken lately: “Because we are given lots of freedom and trust, we are very willing to give a lot back to the organisation.”This approach was successful and within two years (and well ahead of schedule), Hollands Kroon managed to complete the transformation of their organisation to become fully self-managed.Cyberclick, Barcelona      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cyberclick employees. Photograph: PR ImageIn our previous job we were used to corporate values being nothing more than a fancy plaque to fill the empty wall in meeting rooms. Luckily, we now encounter great examples of organisations that actually make use of their values. Strong guiding values are often used as an efficient way to steer the organisation without having the need for rigid rules and procedures. We were in particular inspired by Cyberclick, a digital advertising company in Barcelona. All employees at Cyberclick collectively chose their most important values that define who they are and how they work. Is your job killing you? To make sure it’s not just another dust-collecting item on the wall, they organise a weekly meeting during which every employee discusses an example of how they exhibited at least one of the values in the previous week. “If we cannot name an example of how we live the values every week, either it’s a sign we’re not a good fit for the organisation or it’s a sign the values have to be changed,” says the founder and CEO, David Tomas.Looking for alternativesWe identified many different aspects that set these unique organisations apart from the traditional workplaces most of us are used to. The summarised concepts above are by no means complete, neither are they the golden formula for ultimate employee happiness. To discover more radically different ways of working, we keep exploring. Because in a time where 87% of all employees are disengaged from their work, these pioneers provide some much needed inspiration. More innovative stories from our Corporate Rebels project can be found on our blog.