What not to do…1 Ignore it Every relationship goes through blips, but you were so busy with day-to-day life and made so many excuses for your partner’s behaviour that you failed to notice the bad patches were stretching into months and maybe even years. Instead, turn it round: although it is good to give your partner the benefit of the doubt sometimes, it is important to listen to your feelings, too. One of my central mantras for helping people lead a balanced life is: what is this feeling trying to tell me? If you keep feeling anxious, there might be a good reason.2 Become the critical parent According to transactional analysis, a theory developed in the 1950s, we have three parts to our personality: parent, adult and child. We need them all. Child is the source of our intuition, creativity and play (which helps us unwind, connect and facilitate sex). We sometimes need to parent our partner and look after him or her when ill or going through a tough patch. The problem when we repeatedly parent is that our partner will repeatedly respond like a child. Parent is divided into two parts: nurturing and critical. Child is also divided into two parts: free (the positive) and adapted (which includes rebelling, switching off, passive-aggressive behaviour). Although there is a small place in any relationship for a bit of critical parenting (because some behaviour is unacceptable) and for a bit of adapted child (because these behaviours can be understandable), I see many couples stuck in a fatal combination.If you behave like a critical parent, your partner will automatically respond as an adapted child. Although each partner will have a role they are most comfortable playing, I like to think of it as a tennis match with you taking it in turns. Turn it round: although it is very tempting to criticise your partner, it will prompt sulking, self-justification or more rebellion. The answer is to move into adult mode, because this will help promote adult behaviour in return. The adult is problem-solving and asks questions: who, what, why, when, how? For example, “What could I do to help you feel more in the mood for sex?”3 Involve the children If a crisis has been going on for a while, your children will be aware of your distress and your partner’s altered behaviour. It is only natural that they will ask questions and may offer support. Unfortunately, they are likely to take sides. Turn it round: even if your children are now grown up, if you properly explain everything, you will fall into the “too much information” trap, which is not fair. So thank your children for their concern, and reassure them that you are dealing with the situation (and speak instead to one of your parents, friends or a professional). Never criticise your partner to your children; keep the information you share with them to the bare minimum (your children can draw their own conclusions). Don’t ask them to be a go-between or to report back on your partner.… and some things that will help      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Getty Images1 UnderstandEverybody has to journey through the middle passage to become a full adult. So take the focus away from your partner, and think about what you’ve learned about yourself.2 Listen calmlyWhen your partner is critical, it is natural to defend yourself, get upset or fight back. These reactions do nothing to resolve the underlying problems and can lead to a cycle of bruising rows. There is one simple thing you can do: take a deep breath, remain calm and listen with a curious mind. Ask a question. For example: could you give me an example of when you felt like that?3 Learn about yourself If your partner is depressed, you can’t heal his or her illness. If your partner is besotted with someone else, you are not going to reason the other man or woman out of their life. You can’t change anybody but yourself. Whenever your partner is closed off, take the opportunity to work on yourself: plenty of self-care, building your self-confidence and not putting off projects that make your life more meaningful.How can you learn more about yourself? I would start by looking at your childhood – because the first messages that you were given about yourself and the world are always the most powerful – and see if there are patterns today that started back then. There is a bonus to working on yourself. If you change, there is a possibility that your partner might respond differently to you, and that could facilitate better communication (which in turn could break the deadlock between you). ***When you’ve been dealing with an erratic, depressed or angry partner, it is easy to see yourself as a hero, keeping the show on the road for the sake of the children. This can widen the gap between the two of you. If you can accept that even your partner’s wildest claims have some legitimacy, albeit greatly exaggerated, you will have made a huge step forward. When you accept the bits that do seem reasonable, your partner will stop being defensive and the two of you can find different ways of communicating. This will take time. But when you compare two or three tough years against 15, 20 or more happy years together, it doesn’t seem so bad.It’s Not A Midlife Crisis, It’s An Opportunity is published by Marshall Method Publishing at £12.99.