There is a scene in White Girl, the first feature directed by Elizabeth Wood, in which Leah, the heroine, visits a lawyer after her boyfriend is busted for drug dealing. Leah, a college student, is broke, high and in a state of shambolic collapse most of the time, but she is also a middle-class girl with certain expectations of the world, one of which is that if you get into trouble, you throw yourself at the nearest man who looks like your dad and everything gets better from there. That it doesn’t work out in this case is less interesting to the film-maker than the meaning of that expectation itself.Wood, 33, is sitting opposite me in a cafe in downtown Manhattan, where she lives with her husband and two-year-old son, many miles from the New York neighbourhood in which the film is set. White Girl – the title is also slang for cocaine – draws heavily on Wood’s experiences of moving to New York from Oklahoma 15 years ago, to take up a college place and do much of what Leah does in the movie: move to a crime-ridden Puerto Rican district where, the locals told her, they’d “never seen a white girl, except for that one crackhead”; set about partying herself into near oblivion, hanging out with small-time drug dealers and realising that, for the people living around her, the world worked completely differently – that is, without the “safety net” of racial advantage.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘In many ways she’s the bad guy’ … Morgan Saylor with Brian Marc in White Girl.The film, which attracted attention at Sundance, asks a lot of good questions about race, class and gender discrimination, but if it causes a firestorm when it comes out on Netflix later this year, it will be because of the sex scenes – there is a lot of teenage shagging in the backs of cars, up against walls and in club toilets. None of these scenes, for which the film has drawn inevitable comparisons to Harmony Korine’s Kids, feel angled to shock, with the exception of a rape scene that is by necessity brutal. The reason for this, apart from the subtlety of the script, is Morgan Saylor, best known for her role as Dana Brody in Homeland, who is spectacular as Leah, by turns silly, naive, infuriatingly childish, compassionate and brave. In a lesser film, she might have been a 2D vehicle for Wood’s desire to tell off the world, but instead she’s a complex figure: neither wholly exploiter nor victim. Her idiocy has dire consequences for her boyfriend, so that, says Wood, “in many ways she’s the bad guy”. But the price she pays for it is so steep it is hard not to sympathise.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The male lead, Brian Marc, is a Puerto Rican singer who’d barely acted before he won the role and plays the drug dealer, Blue, with a subtle and heartbreaking brilliance, while his buddy, played by Anthony Ramos, is currently wowing audiences nightly on stage in the Broadway hit, Hamilton. Even Wood was surprised when she managed to persuade Chris Noth to join the cast as the lawyer – particularly after greeting him on the phone with what she says is Noth’s least favourite form of address, “Mr Big!!!” He said yes after reading the script and in spite of the tiny budget and frenetic four-week filming schedule. “These people are literally working for pennies to make my dream come true for a month.”White Girl review: sex, drugs and moral peril in a stylish Sundance button-pusher Unlike, say, Lena Dunham’s Girls, White’s female leads are not sophisticated New Yorkers mired in the existential angst of late adolescence. Instead, she is writing of the specific experience of coming to New York from the middle of the country and promptly losing one’s head, a form of self-indulgence she understands well. “It’s easier for kids who come from very stable backgrounds to take these risks than kids who grew up used to these things and don’t see the allure.”Wood’s parents – father a psychologist, mother a speech therapist – are stalwart members of the Church of Christ, where her father is a minister. Wood relays this information with a smile that acknowledges the discomfort she has put them through, over the years. (When her parents saw the film for the first time at Sundance, Wood felt obliged to issue an advance warning: “Dad, about seven minutes in there’s a blow job.”) They have the advantage, she says, of having a good sense of humour and also being the most liberal people in the church. “They support everything I do and hug and smile and are my biggest cheerleaders. But still.”A result of this stability in her background was to make her go even more crazy in her late teens and early 20s. In Wood’s case, she did well at school but also partied hard so that, she says, “my mum was convinced I was not going to graduate from high school. I remember her saying, ‘Life is not a party!’ Then the next day I was valedictorian and gave a speech. I think I confused them. ‘Are you unstable, or not?’”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Silly, naive, childish, compassionate and brave … Morgan Saylor as LeahWood always had a vague conviction that one way or another she would “figure it out”, an assumption that, when she came to write the movie, she turned around to interrogate and found rooted in white privilege. For Wood, in the early days in New York, this manifested as a certain detachment – the ability to live in an impoverished neighbourhood, safe in the knowledge she would have the option one day to move out. She regarded the scene with a gimlet eye. “While it was happening, I was like, ‘This is going to be my first movie.’ I had the journal where I drew a picture of a scene out of the window, and I framed it and I always had it out of my desk.” She may have looked lost at times, but for reasons both personal and structural she was a long way from being in any really irreversible trouble. As a result, she says, it was a fun time. “It really felt like a family neighbourhood. Everyone was always outside; there were barbecues and ice cream, and we were struggling students and we had this nice apartment.”  I’m trying to examine my privilege, and this may leave a bad taste in people of colour’s mouths Wood hung out with the guys on the street and her then roommate, with whom she is still good friends, had a baby with the man she was then dating. Everything contrived to keep them apart, which Wood would later use in the film. “The judicial system, economic and family background, just logistics of how you can move around in this world. It’s like Romeo and Juliet: there was no way these two people were going to be together, even if they wanted to be. There was no way these kids could figure it out.”The rape scene, which was informed by the experience of a friend, is shot in such as way as to convey the rapist’s corrupt logic: the rationale of, “We’re wasted, we’re partying, this is what we were going to do anyway.” That idea – of flirtation being read as an unspoken invitation to have sex – is one that, says Wood, “I know in my life has happened millions of times and it’s the same for many women. ‘I didn’t think I was promising to sleep with you! I thought I was just having a good time! I thought I was in control of this situation!’ But there are moments when you find yourself where you’ve gotten too far.”It is with dry amusement that Wood acknowledges the rape scene as yet another plot point in a film already overloaded with things that could “go wrong and offend people”. For a first feature, she has picked a story that throws up just about every flashpoint, save for abortion, in US contemporary culture. The way Wood got around her anxiety about this was through prep and more prep. She had to be absolutely sure she knew what she was trying to say, before anyone else jumped aboard to accuse her of saying it wrong. “I feel like I’m trying to start a conversation, ask questions, I’m trying to examine my privilege, and this may leave a bad taste in people of colour’s mouths: ‘Oh, you’re trying to examine it? But that’s our work, our shit to do.’ They’ve had to examine it their whole lives.” Yesterday, construction workers were harassing me, so I started filming them Before the film was even finished, the title was already causing problems. “I had a teacher in grad school who told me I could never call my film that. She said these girls would never go into that neighbourhood and date these guys. She couldn’t deal with it. One day in class I burst into tears and said, ‘Actually this is a personal story.’” As for the title, she says: “It is bold like the film.”In the years since college, Wood has moved and is now in Manhattan. But even now, she finds it useful to remove herself and see a scene from above. “Do I do things for a story? I don’t know. Maybe I just like excitement. Yesterday, construction workers were harassing me. They weren’t being rude, but they were engaging with me, calling after me, and I started filming them, which I always do. It made them take a step back.” Their cajoling didn’t stop, but Wood’s experience of it changed, because she knew she would put the scene to use afterwards. “Telling our stories makes us feel powerful.”