Nico Vascellari, ManchesterA singer in 90s DIY Italian hardcore punk band With Love, artist Nico Vascellari operates in an underground many thought long lost. Accordingly, Vascellari’s installations evoke a sense of nostalgia and deja vu. His is a world of rituals and legends, in which acts of nature are seen as mystical portents. In Bus De La Lum (Hole Of Light) the artist recalls memories of a site in the ancient Italian forest of Cansiglio associated with rumours of witchcraft – and its very real use as a death pit for partisans, prisoners and fascists during the second world war. Across multiple screens reflecting layers of half-buried memories, Vascellari makes skilful use of the shifting and insubstantial nature of projections, seducing us into his will-o’-the-wisp otherworld.The Whitworth Art Gallery, Thu to 18 SepRCThe Russell Chantry, LincolnAfter being unveiled in Lincoln Cathedral in 1959, painter Duncan Grant’s mural depicting the life of St Blaise spent a number of years under wraps. Perhaps this was because the artist’s libertarianism proved too much for church; it probably didn’t help that Grant appeared to use his lover, the poet Paul Roche, as a model for Christ. However, the restored work was reinstated in the Russell Chantry in 1990, and now a life-size model of the mural’s chapel home has been constructed in the town’s museum The Collection, inside which Lothar Götz has installed his own abstract update. Presenting less of an overt narrative than Grant’s mural, Götz’s geometric images recall the rhythmic chanting for which the space was once used.The Collection, to 29 MayRCDjordje Ozbolt, LondonEven though he would probably deny it, the works of Djordje Ozbolt suggest a specific symbolism behind their evocative scenes. The artist has up to now dealt with imagery of a magical realist bent, but for this new group of paintings Ozbolt has radically reduced the idea of the painted symbol, depicting art historical tropes from the crucifix to a still life of flowers in a series of basic shapes. These works invite consideration but refuse any assured conclusions.Herald St, W1, Thu to 26 MarOBThe Imitation Game, ManchesterWhile working at the University of Manchester in 1950, the pioneering computer scientist Alan Turing wrote, “Can machines think? ... Are there imaginable digital computers which would do well in the imitation game?” With a prophetic turn of phrase like that, who needs artists? Well, in this show, eight address Turing’s conceit, with often rather forlorn consequences. Yu-Chen Wang’s insectile androids mimic human emotions, while James Capper’s robotic walking sculpture appears to be a runaway JCB mutant. Elsewhere, further glimpses of wistful lost souls are afforded by David Link’s computer-generated love letters.Manchester Art Gallery, to 5 JunRCDIS, LondonNew York-based online collective DIS are among a growing breed of practitioners, often found in today’s cooler galleries, who prove that the definition of “an artist” is becoming increasingly fluid. Now consisting of four members, with a changing cast of collaborators from the worlds of fashion, music and art, DIS started as an online magazine (with issues published under the themes of “labor” and “tweenage”), went on to produce installations and video works, shapeshifted into a stock image library, and morphed into fashion design and retail. This year they’ll take on another guise as curators of the Berlin Biennale. Uniting these activities is an eye for the corporate sublime, the dreary perfection of fashion and the neoliberal co-option of the alternative. For this show they continue blurring commercial and art photography, a theme carried over from an advertising campaign conceived for MoMA, New York.Project Native Informant, W1, Tue to 2 AprOBChance, Order, Change, BirminghamSubtitled Abstract Paintings 1939-89, this exhibition charts the classic period of high-modernist abstraction. While non-representational art has been around since the stone age, the work here typifies an unprecedented upsurge of abstract art that was often viewed by its practitioners as the culmination of several decades, if not centuries, of aesthetic progress. The Bauhaus teacher Josef Albers is here with his 1954 Study To Affectionate, a radiant orange frame grading inward to a square of rose red. Robert Ryman is captivating, with a subtle orchestration of white and off-white. Then, to show the thrill dimming, there are efforts by Victor Pasmore that just look tamely nice: stuff to decorate an office wall somewhere.The Barber Institute Of Fine Arts, to 8 MayRCLee Kit, LondonLee Kit’s sculptures, found objects, hand-painted cloth works and line drawings come together as a disarmingly unassuming practice characterised by a muted palette and utilisation of everyday motifs. Shrouded in a gloom at odds with the harsh light of the Italian sun outside, Lee’s pavilion at last year’s Venice Biennale featured, for example, a shelf with two turquoise plastic mugs, a vacuum cleaner and a T-shirt hung on a hanger. Brought together, they had an emotional charge that asked the viewer to look at quotidian life and consider it anew. Here, Lee pares back further, creating line drawings of hands and feet, each invoking a narrative in their unique gesture.Massimo De Carlo, W1, Tue to 2 AprOB