I had been told by a few knowledgable people that Thai home cooking was the best, but I’d filed that information under “rose-tinted” until I experienced it first-hand.Last summer our team went to Ubon in north-east Thailand to visit the family home of one of our front-of-house staff, Wannida. As we mistranslated pleasantries, I watched Wannida’s aunt briefly boil some roughly chopped duck legs in water before adding garlic, chilli, tamarind and makrut lime leaves. I readied myself for a fairly grim bowl of warm water and raw garlic. But then we tried it and, well, it was good – really good. Balanced, soothing, with a slightly iron tang.I was struck by how the aromatic quality of the makrut lime and chilli provided a counterpoint to the sourness of the tamarind. With very little cooking, and without using any particularly deep flavours, the dish was well-rounded and it was also gentle on the palate. I had used makrut lime leaf many times in curry pastes and salads, but it wasn’t until I ate this duck soup that I began to understand how to use aroma to balance the flavour of a dish. I readied myself for a fairly grim bowl of warm water and raw garlic. But then we tried it and it was good – really good The principle of arranging complementary dishes that aren’t hugely satisfying on their own is deeply Thai, and an effective mechanism for bringing a meal together. Some Thai dishes focus on flavour, while others prioritise aroma, particularly in the north-east of the country.This is now important to my cooking at Smoking Goat and Kiln: it’s a simpler, rural, more sour and pungent style than that of Thailand’s central plains (where you’ll find more familiar dishes such as spicy red and green curries, together with tom yum soup and salty grilled fish).It’s not unusual to read translated Thai recipes in which the author outlines how to focus on “aroma”, rather than “flavour” alone. That aroma could be so satisfying was new to me, but as I began to think of it as a tool to help balance a dish, it started to make more sense.That duck soup made by Wannida’s aunt is a prime example of just such an aromatic dish, and I’ve included the recipe below. I’d say it’s one to try at home only if you’re feeling intrepid. It’s a very fragile thing and takes a certain type of devotion to get your head around. Plus, you’ll need to get hold of some extremely fresh makrut lime leaf for it to work at all (this can be found online if there are no Asian grocers near you that stock it). But don’t let this put you off. I wanted to include it this week because it was so instructive for me – as I hope it is for you – to show how one can extract so much flavour from so little. I’d combine it with something spicy and salty, such as a dry-fried curry (the southern Thai dish khua kling would be good) or a papaya salad (som tum).A rural Thai recipe for steamed seabass, cockles and nam jim dressing | Cook residency Rather more straightforward is our second recipe – goong ob woon sen, or glass noodles with prawns cooked in a clay pot. It is another good example of how aroma can balance flavour, this time in one dish.Baking noodles in soy, shaoxing wine and spice in this way is a Chinese style of cooking, but here it is altered somewhat to suit Thai sensibilities and love of aroma. When you open the lid, you should smell black pepper, ginger and celery leaf. As you eat, those aromas will counter the very deep soy and pork-fat combination – and this is really the point, I think.We serve a version at Kiln, but with brown crabmeat replacing the prawns. Large tropical prawns are delicious, but we have enough native seafood to do without frozen and often unsustainable produce. Of course, you can alter the seafood to your taste, and the shaoxing wine could be replaced by any fortified or high-alcohol white wine.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ben Chapman: ‘That aroma could be so satisfying was new to me, but as I began to think of it as a tool to help balance a dish, it started to make more sense.’ Photograph: Elena Heatherwick for the GuardianDuck soup with makrut lime leafMakrut leaf is fragrant and perfumed and should be used sparingly. It adds an uplifting note to richer coconut cream dishes and a soothing layer to tart and spicy dishes. Tamarind is rich and sour – use it to add sharpness and body to lighter dishes such as this soup. Both are used across a broad range of Thai recipes but their outcomes can differ greatly depending on how they are used.Serves 42 duck legs, roughly chopped into 10cm pieces on the bone (if possible, get your butcher to do this)A few large dashes of fish sauce1 slice galangal or ginger1 stalk lemongrass, topped, tailed, peeled, then crushed with a pestle or blade of a knife, then chopped finely2 fresh makrut lime leavesA handful of young tamarind leaves (or 3 tbsp tamarind water: make your own by soaking 1 tbsp tamarind pulp in 5 tbsp warm water) A dash of the liquid from a jar of pickled garlic 2 fresh bird’s-eye chillies4 garlic cloves, skin on1 Season the chopped duck with the fish sauce. Boil a large pan of water, add the seasoned duck meat and allow it to simmer until cooked through.2 Add the galangal, lemongrass and one of the makrut lime leaves. Simmer for 5 minutes, then taste the broth: you should have a very fragrant, slightly salty duck stock.3 Add the sour tamarind to balance the flavours to your taste. Then add a touch of sweetness with the pickled garlic liquor.4 Pound the chilli and garlic into a smooth paste. Add this paste to the pot, along with the remaining fresh makrut lime leaf and allow the broth to simmer for around 2 minutes, until the rawness of the garlic has disappeared and you have a tangy, fragrant, balanced soup.Clay pot crab noodles Traditional Chinese-style clay pots are available in most Chinatown stores or online at souschef, but you could also use a cast-iron pot, such as a Le Creuset. We cook this on a gas hob, but this dish will also work in a very hot oven.Serves 2 For the noodles60g glass noodlesA few dashes of light soy sauce2 slices fatty pork bellyA small handful of celery leavesFor the paste2 garlic cloves, peeled and chopped½ tbsp black peppercorns½ tbsp coriander root, finely chopped (optional)1-2cm piece of ginger, sliced½ large or 1 small white onion, sliced15g fresh brown crabmeatFor the soy dressing150ml chicken stock50ml shaoxing wine½ tbsp light soy sauce½ tbsp dark soy sauce½ tbsp fish sauce1 Soak the noodles in a bowl of water until softened – about 10 minutes – then drain and dress with the light soy sauce, and set aside.2 Fry the chopped garlic, peppercorns, coriander (if using) and ginger in a little vegetable oil with the sliced onion. Cool and combine with the crabmeat, then set aside.3 Combine the dressing ingredients in a small bowl and mix well.4 To build the pot, arrange the pork belly at the bottom, then add 2 tbsp of the crabmeat mixture, followed by the noodles, then finish by pouring over the soy dressing.5 Garnish the dish with the celery leaves and cook the pot for 9 minutes on a medium flame or roast for 20 minutes in the oven at 200C/400F/gas mark 6.• Ben Chapman is a chef and founder of Kiln and Smoking Goat Thai restaurants in London; @Kilnsoho and @SmokingGoatSoho I