Finally, a catchphrase as iconic as “I’m with Vince”, the access-all-areas intro dropped by the hangers-on in Entourage. Say hello to “I’m with Nigel”, as the breakout star of Brexit tries to make it big in America, accompanied by his coat-tailing posse from back home. Don’t ask me the title of this shitshow, girls. Cause you know you just switched on Enfarage.First, the set-up. Nigel Farage is a leading man whose success in the referendum vote has drawn offers from That America. Specifically, from Donald Trump’s campaign for the presidency, which has taken inspiration from the poll-busting Brexit result, and reportedly wants to pick his brains. Please don’t conclude that the relationship is being wildly exaggerated, and that Farage is so junior that even Trump’s people have people who deal with him.Instead, just get behind the fact that it’s finally happening – Nigel Farage is GOING WEST! He is LIVING THE DREAM! If you’re up to speed with the series, you’ll know that Nigel has already gone to the Republican national convention in Cleveland. Nigel has been permitted to open for Trump in Mississippi. Nigel has been said to be advising Trump in advance of the final two debates. Nigel is on Fox News. Nigel is in the spin room. Nigel is hotly tipped to play the lead in James Cameron’s Aquaman. I don’t know if Nigel has a mid-Atlantic accent yet, but when asked whether he would return as the permanent Ukip leader, his reply was genuinely “not for 10 million dollars”. Nigel, your official logo is a pound sign. Why are you suddenly speaking in dollars? Is this a bit like that Alan Partridge episode where his mate from the petrol station gets infatuated with a cod-American trucker called Tex? Or do you just prefer to talk in currencies that aren’t tanking?Nigel Farage criticised for defending Donald Trump by Ukip MEPs But wait, because Nigel also has a crew, who he wants with him for the journey because 1) he’s codependent, and 2) that’s the entire show, dude! Don’t take it from me – take it from Ukip financier Arron Banks, whose forthcoming book on the gang is called The Bad Boys of Brexit, and features a cover shot I’ve already captioned “Turtle, E, Vinnie, Drama”. The aforementioned bad boys are Arron, communications chap Andy Wigmore and another businessmen bankroller called Richard Tice. (“Tice is the worst!” honks Arron, presumably in a teaser for the episode Tice is the Worst.)Tice doesn’t seem to be with Nigel as we speak, but the others have caught a ride with him at various stages of the US journey. And why not? Entourage was, of course, a show whose almost ineffably complex and nuanced four-way bromance was best summarised in the following exchange:E: “Could you get laid without Vince? That’s the question?”Turtle: “Do I give a fuck? That’s the answer!”So picture the same dynamic, only with Nigel Farage. Of course, I mean it only metaphorically as far as the bad boys of Enfarage are concerned. I’m pretty sure they all have wives, estranged or otherwise and, anyway, they wouldn’t have gone near the traditional RNC hookers’n’coke bonanza. Fine wines, yes. Blowing rails off a paid friend while telling her about the Breaking Point poster? Don’t be absurd. Essentially, these are country mice. I get the feeling they’re a bit “unsettled” by alt-right comers such as Milo Yiannopolous .Of course, there are some characters too silly even to make the Enfarage cut. There is Breitbart London editor Raheem Kassam, for instance, who is running for the Ukip leadership under the Trump-frotting slogan Make Britain Great Again. Raheem once poignantly bought the same coat as Nigel, but his puritan dullardry is preventing him getting even a three-episode arc. “Irony of Trump tape,” ran a Raheem tweet revealing a grasp of irony to make Alanis Morissette’s look Sophoclean. “The left has pushed sex liberation & filthy Hollywood culture for decades. Now complaining about the language it causes.”“Complaining about the language”? Also, “filthy Hollywood culture”? Obviously, no one expects Raheem to have a clue as to why so many Republican women are vocally enraged and disgusted by Trump’s sexual assault boasts – he presumably last spoke to a female sometime during the Dubya administration. But it’s an interesting choice to run for the Ukip leadership on a Mary Whitehouse platform, and he is advised to manage his expectations accordingly.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Farage: Trump ‘isn’t running to be pope’. Photograph: Nicholas Kamm/AFP/Getty ImagesBack to Nigel, though. Back to our star. Clearly, this is the most concerted attempt to break America since Robbie Williams moved there for a decade and became the de facto leader of the Brits in LA for No Good Reason. Robbie’s US career basically consisted of hosting five-a-side football matches for fellow time-rich expats such as Vinnie Jones. Farage’s strategy, in contrast, is to get as close to Trump’s campaign as he possibly can, build up his recognition Stateside, and hope it doesn’t end up like when Cheryl went to US X Factor.Thus he’ll do anything. Farage is now the Paul Ross of the Trump campaign – as in, his answerphone message says: “I’ll do it.” Wait – the candidate has been taped bragging about grabbing women’s pussies? Fine, Nigel will go on Fox News to defend him. Like he told the anchor, Trump’s apparent predilection for sexual assault was fine because “he’s not running to be pope”. Quite. That’s the last way to get ahead in the Catholic church.Anyway, the pope bit was sufficiently splashy for Nigel to be invited into the post-debate spinroom, where he dispensed further look-at-me lines. Trump, Farage declared, was “like a big silverback gorilla” – an analysis that makes me wonder if those paw ashtrays are always morally wrong. Either way, the last thing you should think is that Nigel is coming off like a small fish in a massive pond. “I’ve been there myself,” he mused of the first presidential debate. “I remember my first debate.” Thanking you, Obi-Wan.What is the endgame to all this? If Nigel has an Ari Gold figure, where is he steering him? My feeling is that Farage ultimately wants a berth on Trump TV, the network Trump is rumoured to be launching should his presidential bid fail. Our natural instinct is probably to see Nigel occupying the Partridgean 3am-6am graveyard slot. Then again, in the world of Trump, maybe the small hours are prime time? God knows that’s when the candidate has done some of his most eye-catching work.Or perhaps Nigel hopes Trump will employ him as a sidekick on his own show – kind of like Hank on Larry Sanders. The fear, naturally, is that Nigel will end up some kind of Madge Allsop figure – monstrously insulted and abused, but too beaten to find the courage to escape. All we can do is remind Nigel that lil’ ol’ Britannia will be waiting for him with open arms if all goes tits up. Leave a $10 bill on her nightstand, Nige, and tell her about the time you were big in America.