Ikea has responded to Kanye West’s request to “allow Kanye to create”, proposing the Yeezy: a bed big enough for West and all his celebrity friends.West revealed his ambition to work with the Swedish flat-pack furniture powerhouse in an interview on BBC Radio 1 on Monday.Kanye West's Ikea line should beat Justin Timberlake's homeware “I. Have. To. Work. With. Ikea,” he told presenter Annie Mac by phone from Los Angeles. “With furniture, with interior design, for architecture.”Specifically, he had interest in turning his hand to “a minimalist apartment inside of a college dorm, with a TV built inside of the wall”.He was drawn to Ikea because of his goal of making his products more accessible, describing his “mission in life” as to do “high-end and all this stuff, and bring it to the people”.He concluded by calling on Ikea to “allow Kanye to create”: “Allow him to make this thing because you know what, I want a bed that he makes, I want a chair that he makes – I want more products from Ye.”Ikea Australia responded on Facebook late on Tuesday night with the “Yeezy”: “Hej Kanye, we’d love to see what you’d create... we could make you Famous!”The design – three beds, screwed together – was a reference to West’s controversial Famous video, which showed West, his wife Kim Kardashian, and other celebrities naked and asleep in a giant bed together.But the fans of Ikea Australia who responded to the post were by and large not in favour of the collaboration, with one proposing an alternative: the Kånye toilet.“Don’t do it. Ever,” commented one Ikea fan. “It’s probably the only thing that would make me stay away from Ikea.”Another commented of the collaboration: “Would it have a screw loose?”West has previously collaborated with the British fashion designer, Katie Eary, who has created textiles and tableware for Ikea in the past.He told Annie Mac his goal was to make “content” across all disciplines, and was dismissive of those who felt he should limit himself to music.“It’s like telling Michaelangelo, ‘I know you did this dope angel, that was really good, but Michealangelo, I don’t think you could paint a cow’.”