The culture minister, Ed Vaizey, has agreed to meet Bradford MPs and the Science Museum Group (SMG) to discuss a “secret backroom deal” that secured the transfer of a world-famous photography collection from the National Media Museum in Bradford to London.Museums and galleries outside London were not given an opportunity to bid for the artistic and cultural “jewels” of Bradford’s Royal Photographic Society (RPS) collection, according to confidential documents released to the Guardian.Bradford photography collection move to V&A reviled as 'vandalism' They reveal that last July Ian Blatchford, the director of the publicly funded SMG, which owns the National Media Museum, quietly offered a collection of about 400,000 photographic objects to the Victoria & Albert museum and Tate Britain, which are both in London.The offer, which came without public consultation, was not extended to any institutions outside the capital, the confidential reports show.The SMG trustees chose the V&A, an already extensive museum of art and design, which would have to build a new gallery in South Kensington to house the Bradford collection.Eric Pickles, the former communities secretary, said the decision was “thoughtless” and not in the national interest. “Why should everything of artistic quality be in London?” he asked, adding that the move “flies in the face of all that the government’s wanting to do” with its “northern powerhouse” agenda.Judith Cummins, Labour MP for Bradford South, said Vaizey had agreed to meet her and other MPs, together with Dame Mary Archer, chair of the SMG trustees. “It’s clearer than ever that the decision to move the Royal Photography Collection from Bradford to London was part of a secret backroom deal within a closed circle of a London elite,” Cummins said.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A picture from the Royal Photographic Society collection. Photograph: Royal Photographic Society/SSPL via Getty Images“It speaks volumes that the Science Museum Group only approached two London-based museums as part of their secret talks to pillage Bradford’s cultural gems. It’s arrogant and frankly offensive that they didn’t even give the pretence of approaching museums outside the capital.” She said she would ask Archer and Vaizey to stop the relocation of the RPS collection, pending an independent review. Why must a Bradford museum lose its treasures to London? | Sam Jordison The confidential reports, released by the SMG under a freedom of information request, show that a key pillar of the Tate’s losing bid was to make the RPS collection available for exhibition across the UK – at its outposts in St Ives and Liverpool, as well as 34 partner museums – and not just the Tate Britain and Tate Modern, which are both in London. The Tate, which describes the RPS haul as “an outstanding collection of great national significance”, said in a statement on Sunday that it had been building its photography collection since 2009 and was “committed to making its collection available for exhibition, not only at its four Tate galleries but also through its extensive loans programme”.It added: “Tate, therefore, submitted a proposal, a key element of which was showing this body of material widely across the country through loans and exhibitions, in order to make it accessible to the widest possible audience,.”According to a briefing marked highly confidential, which was circulated to SMG trustees in November 2015, the V&A bid would “create the greatest collection of 19th-century photography in the world”, which would be “of benefit to the public and to scholars”.Despite protests and a petition signed by more than 27,000 people, the SMG board in March agreed to move 312,000 objects from the RPS collection to the V&A.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Protest outside the National Media Museum in Bradford in 2013 when the museum faced closure. Photograph: AlamyThe Science Museum Group did not respond when asked for comment on why only the V&A was offered the collection.Maria Eagle, the shadow culture secretary, condemned the move and called upon the culture secretary, John Whittingdale, to reverse the decision.“It is an absolute disgrace that this insensitive decision appears to have been taken months ago behind closed doors and with no public consultation. Had this plan been made public ahead of a decision being made, the trustees would have been left in no doubt than many people in the north, particularly in Bradford, consider it to be cultural vandalism and a grievous loss,” she said.Bradford museum board 'very strongly opposed' moving photo collection “In view of these strong feelings, it is still not too late for the secretary of state to step in, fulfil his responsibilities as culture secretary for the whole of the country and demand a rethink.” The director of the Bradford museum has said the transfer of the collection will allow the museum to concentrate on science, technology, engineering and maths. Pickles, who led Bradford council between 1988 and 1990, said: “The decision is a bad one. I think it’s a thoughtless one and I don’t believe it’s in the national interest in the sense of preserving an almost unique collection. They just haven’t worked out the importance of this. “Why do folk from Bradford have to get on a train and travel all that way to see a collection that they’ve looked after and that was a matter of such pride?“It was an important statement about the future of Bradford. I think they should think again. I think they should think about encouraging people to come to Bradford to see these wonderful exhibits.” 