Welcome to our space – open every Wednesday from 10am-2pm – for discussing the day’s top Opinion articles. As our final article of the day we’d like to discuss how the UK should respond to the crisis in Syria.We have a panel on this today, with everyone from Alison McGovern to Emily Thornberry discussing the topic. McGovern wrote: There are a number of actions the UK could take and I believe that the measured use of military capability, in the form of a no-bombing zone, must not be off the table if it is the only way of stopping the slaughter of civilians. Even failing this we should volunteer to use our capability in the region to track who is committing these crimes. We should support the French plan to use the international criminal court to hold Assad and Putin to account and we must impose tough sanctions on Russia to show there are consequences for what they are doing.Read the full article here. What do you think? What’s the best course of action? Share your comments below.Elsewhere, The Guardian’s Toby Moses argues that while there are compelling reasons to forgo meat, opting out a few days a week (as campaigns such as Meat Free Monday encourage) is a realistic way forward rather than expecting everyone to go completely veggie. He writes: I’m sure I’m not alone in finding the lectures from vegetarian campaigners alienating. Their cause may be worthy, and the ask may not seem that big to those used to a diet of kale and cashews – but the fact is that for millions of us it’s hard. I don’t want to give up meat, I’m probably not going to – so stop trying to make me feel bad. Piling on the guilt, while at the same time setting a bar that seems always to be rising, does not seem likely to solve the world’s problems. For once you’ve dropped the meat, the fish is sure to follow, and then there’s eggs, butter, yoghurt – before long it feels like the only way to sustain yourself virtuously is to scavenge nuts and berries from the wilderness, which isn’t that easy in central London. Read the article in full here.What do you think? Is this a better message to spread? Are you interesting in being a flexitarian? If so, why? Or why not?Guardian writers also ask this week – am I a feminist? It’s a question posed as part of our Google answers series (where our writers answer some of the most Googled queries). This week Lola Okolosie, Natasha Walter and Kate Maltby respond. Walter begins by saying: If you want to know if you are a feminist, try asking yourselves some questions about what you do – in your work, in your home, in your everyday life. Do you support women rather than pull them down, do you refuse to judge women – including yourself – on the absurd standards of hypersexual femininity, do you speak out against violence against women, do you support victims of male violence, do you listen to women less privileged than you are, and talk to women from different backgrounds and ethnicities about what they want from equality, do you buy dolls for your son or encourage your daughter to be strong and fierce? Yes? Then you’re a feminist.Read the full article here.What do you think? What does feminism mean today and has the meaning changed over the years? Are there certain criteria? Do you consider yourself a feminist – why or why not?