As the hangover lifts the day after the night before, replaced by the realisation Donald Trump’s election victory was not just a bad dream, you might find yourself catapulted headlong into what some psychologists call “the five stages of grief”.We may not be psychologists but we are in need of distraction – so we prepared you a playlist if you’re feeling the same.1. Denial and isolationTurn It Off from The Book of Mormon    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “When you’re feeling certain feels that just don’t feel right,Treat those pesky feelings like a reading light – and turn ‘em off!”Because in times of darkness you need to have a laugh. And then a cry. And then a laugh again, but this time somewhat hysterically. And then you need to close the laptop and skip merrily away, pretending everything is fine. This star-studded anti-Trump playlist will help you through the day Other contenders: Space Oddity by David Bowie; How to Disappear Completely by Radiohead; Pretend We’re Dead by L7; I’m So Bored With the USA by the Clash, Nobody Really Cares if You Don’t Go To The Party by Courtney Barnett; Nothing Even Matters by Lauryn Hill & D’Angelo (see also: this gif).2. AngerRid of Me by PJ Harvey   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “Nasty women” of the United States jumped straight to the second stage of grief in the aftermath of the election result, shutting down major streets across America with mass demonstrations. No song encapsulates the anger of the “Don’t grab my pussy” brigade better than PJ Harvey’s Rid of Me, with it’s ominous, slow-building threat: “You’re not rid of me, I’ll make you lick my injuries, I’m gonna twist your head off, see, ’TIL YOU SAY DON’T YOU WISH YOU NEVER, NEVER MET HER.’” Crank it, ladies.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Women demonstrate in Philadelphia against Donald Trump’s victory in the US presidential election. Photograph: Mark Makela/ReutersOther contenders: Still I Rise by Maya Angelou; November Spawned a Monster by Morrissey; Don’t Hurt Yourself by Beyoncé; Killing in the Name Of by Rage Against the Machine; Charmless Man by Blur; Masters of War by Bob Dylan; Trumpton Riots by Half Man Half Biscuit; State of the Union by Rise Against.3. BargainingLandlocked Blues by Bright Eyes   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Making a desperate pact with a higher power is a common symptom of the bargaining stage of grief. In Landlocked Blues, Bright Eyes’ Conor Oberst is “making a deal with the devils” and pleading: “If you walk away, I’ll walk away”. If only it were that easy.Revisiting this song the day after the night before, it’s striking how relevant it still is. Particularly the “kids playing guns in the street” bit.Other contenders: Please, Please, Please, Let Me Get What I Want by the Smiths; Running Up That Hill by Kate Bush; Love the One You’re With by Stephen Stills; American Without Tears by Elvis Costello; What the World Needs Now by Burt Bacharach; and any of the following dedicated to Obama: All You Had to Do Was Stay, If You Leave Me Now, Don’t Leave Me This Way and Stay Another Day.4. DepressionYesterday by the Beatles   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest We’re dedicating this song to the 46.9% of America’s 231,556,622 eligible voters who didn’t vote yesterday. You might be feeling a touch of sadness and regret today (a shadow hanging over you, perhaps?), all symptoms of this stage in the grieving process. Other contenders:  Crying in the Rain by Everly Brothers; I’m a Loser by the Beatles; Breathe Me by Sia; and The Dead Flag Blues by Godspeed You! Black Emperor (“the car is on fire, and there’s no driver at the wheel” pretty much sums it up).How You Can’t Always Get What You Want became Donald Trump’s bizarre theme song 5. AcceptanceIt’s the End of the World as We Know It (And I Feel Fine) by REM   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest More than a decade before The Simpsons predicted a Trump presidency, the cryptic folk of REM were warning of low-flying planes, “a tournament of lies”, a “vitriolic, patriotic, slam, fight, bright light” and – wait for it – “reporters baffled, Trump, tethered crop”. This song is certainly no Shiny Happy People but those lucky enough to reach the “acceptance” stage of grief (one marked by Zen-like calm with a whiff of withdrawal) can revel in Michael Stipe’s prescient wisdom: “It’s the end of the world as we know it, and I feel fine.”Other contenders: Crying, Waiting, Hoping by Buddy Holly; Things Can Only Get Better by D:Ream; The Only Way is Up by Yazz; The Bitterest Pill by the Jam; Don’t Stop by Fleetwood Mac; or, if you don’t really feel like accepting after all, Rise Above by Black Flag. Any glaring oversights? Join us in the comments.