When it comes to the economy, the government’s recently rebooted northern powerhouse may only be smoke and mirrors, but when it comes to the arts, the energy and drive in the region is palpable. Just look at Sheffield’s S1 Artspace or Manchester’s the Factory or come and see how Hull is already bustling in advance of its status as UK City of Culture in 2017. Now, with no fanfare and no need for expensive building projects, publishers are joining the party.And Other Stories has been based in High Wycombe since we started in 2011, but we’re moving to Sheffield. And we’re not the only ones heading for the northern powerhouse: Tilted Axis is moving from London to Sheffield, and Saraband is moving from Glasgow to Manchester. And Other Stories is also joining the Northern Fiction Alliance, a group that brings us together with those already there: Manchester’s Comma Press, Leeds’s Peepal Tree Press and Liverpool’s Dead Ink Books, to showcase our authors’ work abroad.Everybody knows that publishing in the UK is too white, too middle-class and too London-centric, making it difficult for the books we publish to reflect the 55.4 million Brits who live outside the capital. An industry with tight margins and relatively low salaries will find it hard to change any of this while it is largely based in a city that is so expensive to live in. But by moving north, publishing houses can make it easier for people from all backgrounds to enter the profession, and to maintain a good quality of life – whatever that means to them.The opportunities that this affordability opens up are nothing new. Much of the best poetry publishing – never a very lucrative field – has been based in the north for decades. Think of Manchester’s Carcanet, Newcastle’s Bloodaxe, Todmorden’s Arc and Sheffield’s The Poetry Business and smith|doorstop, to mention just a few. If, in financial terms, the literary novel is becoming the new poetry, then perhaps it’s natural that young, independent fiction presses will consider the shift.The north is, of course, a very large area whose identity varies widely from place to place and is only partly defined by the cultural life in its cities. As Kevin Duffy of Hebden Bridge-based Bluemoose Books says: “The landscape both historically and culturally has shaped who we are.” In Sheffield, we will be getting to know and working with a great literary scene full of talented graduates. We’re excited about the discussions we’re having with organisations such as the Off the Shelf festival, the University of Sheffield and New Writing North. We hope that in the long term, northern independents can work with regional support to develop an ambitious publishing industry and create a broad range of viable alternative destinations for graduates looking to work in publishing.And why should we stop with independents? Large publishing houses aren’t as quick on their feet, but there must be people in Penguin Random House asking, “What if we moved to Manchester?” And indeed, what if HarperCollins moved to Leeds? Or if Hachette was based in Newcastle or Pan Macmillan in Liverpool – with overheads slashed, profits up and salaries increased the future of mainstream publishing would be assured. Plugged into the reality of life outside the M25, a new, distributed publishing industry could recruit more widely and publish more boldly.But whatever the big publishers do in the future, nimble independents are doing it now. 