Emma Rice, the artistic director of Shakespeare’s Globe, has broken her silence over her departure after just two seasons, saying she left because of a lack of respect from the board, and exclusion “from the rooms where decisions are made”.Rice and her predecessor, Dominic Dromgoole, have written open letters that shed new light on one of the saddest chapters in the 20-year history of the theatre.It was announced last October that Rice would step down in 2018. The theatre’s board said it was because it wanted a return to “shared light” productions without modern sound and light rigging, but observers saw it as a battle between the traditional and the experimental, with Rice – and the latter – coming out as loser.In her letter, addressed to her successor, Rice writes: “Never think that my decision to step down in 2018 was simply about lights and sound, it was about personal trust and artistic freedom.” She believes the Globe is “wrestling with what, at its core, it now stands for”. “I had to choose to leave because I choose myself and my work,” she writes.Rice, who was previously in charge of Kneehigh, one of the UK’s most innovative companies, faced flak from the start after she cheerfully admitted not having read many of Shakespeare’s plays.“I have learnt that there are as many opinions about what the Globe and Shakespeare should be as there are people you talk to,” she writes.“I have learnt not to say that I sometimes find Shakespeare hard to understand” and “I have learnt, never again, to allow myself to be excluded from the rooms where decisions are made.”Rice writes that to stay would have meant giving away her artistic freedom. “I chose to leave because, as important and beloved as the Globe is to me, the board did not love and respect me back. It did not understand what I saw, what I felt and what I created with my actors, creative teams and the audience.”The letter is published on the theatre’s website along with one from Dromgoole, who has also largely kept his counsel over Rice’s departure.“The fact that Emma has been stopped in fulfilling her ambitions is heartbreaking,” he writes. “It is also wrong. The only people who have the moral strength to get rid of you are the audience. No one else, not the board, not your supposed colleagues, not the vulture punditry, just the audience.”Dromgoole writes that Rice was continuing a tradition of originality and invention at the Globe which had been started by his predecessor, Mark Rylance, and which he had continued.“Newness is not easy for everyone. The bile towards the Globe was there at the beginning, was felt keenly by Mark, was ever-present in my time, and spilled out last autumn hideously from those both pro- and anti-Emma Rice.”He disagreed with Rice’s decision to do away with shared light productions. “For me, shared light was the unique Globe tool, which subverted the orthodoxies of director’s and critic’s theatre, and which handed back to the actors and the audiences the capacity to collaborate together freely on making an imaginative experience occur. Taking away that uniqueness doesn’t strike me as radical, it strikes me as conformist. Every theatre has light and sound, the Globe didn’t.”He continues, however, that he respects her decision. “I cannot respect the blocking of her choice. No one, not committees, not cabals, not connivers, no one can set this policy but the AD [artistic director].”The application process for Rice’s replacement closes on 24 April with interviews in mid-May. The advertisement calls for “an experienced and dynamic theatre professional with a love and knowledge of Shakespeare” and says the debate over shared light “has led us to reflect deeply on our mission and performance practices”.Whoever it is will “be the latest in a line of experimental radicals and you will be in for the most intoxicating experience of your life,” Rice writes.