Fifty Shades of Grey may have been largely overlooked in the Oscar nominations, but it was a big winner at this year’s Razzies.  The awkward adaptation of author EL James’s erotic novel nabbed five prizes at the Golden Raspberry awards, including a share of the year’s worst film award with the superhero flop Fantastic Four.Jamie Dornan picked up the worst actor award and his co-star Dakota Johnson took worst actress. The pair also pinned down the worst screen combo award. Fifty Shades also won worst screenplay.Despite failing to impress the critics, Sam Taylor-Johnson’s film, which cost $40m to make, has taken more than $570m at the box office globally. It was Universal’s highest-grossing R–rated film globally, and also the UK’s highest-grossing 18-rated movie.Eddie Redmayne, who is up for best actor at the Academy Awards on Sunday night, took the worst supporting actor prize at the Razzies. The British star, who won the best actor Oscar in 2015 for playing Stephen Hawking in The Theory of Everything, won the Razzie for his turn in Jupiter Ascending. He is up for another best actor Oscar this year for his role in The Danish Girl.As well as tying for worst film of the year, Fantastic Four was given the worst remake, rip-off or sequel prize, and Josh Trank took the worst director gong.Sylvester Stallone, who is nominated in the supporting actor category at the Oscars for reprising his role as Rocky Balboa in Creed, was bestowed with the Razzies’ redeemer award, which lauds past Razzies recipients for recent work that has revived their careers. Kaley Cuoco won worst supporting actress for Alvin & The Chipmunks: Road Chip. The winners of the 36th Razzies were announced on Saturday night at the Palace theatre in Los Angeles. The awards were launched in 1980 as a spoof of Hollywood’s awards season. The winners were selected this year by 943 voting members from 48 US states and 20 countries.This article was amended on 28 February 2016. An earlier version said that Fifty Shades of Grey did not win any Oscar nominations. It was nominated for best original song.