Two weeks after Lisa McInerney won the Baileys prize for women’s fiction, the Irish writer has won the £10,000 Desmond Elliott prize for her debut novel The Glorious Heresies, which judges said had “electricity running through [its] prose”.The Glorious Heresies by Lisa McInerney review – the Sweary Lady is on bellicose form The 34-year-old’s novel tells the story of how Maureen’s return to Cork threatens her son Jimmy’s criminal empire. It beat Gavin McCrea’s Mrs Engels and Julia Rochester’s The House at the Edge of the World to win the award, set up in the name of the late publisher and literary agent Desmond Elliott and given to the year’s best debut novel.The novelist Iain Pears, who chaired the judging panel, called McInerney “a major literary figure of the next generation” and “a genuinely exciting writer – there is electricity running through her prose”.“This is a complex, unusual, violent book, bleak but with welcome humour, and she manages a huge cast with confidence; there is never any doubt that she is in complete control, right to the unexpected but perfect ending,” he said. “I know what it is to try and control a complicated text, and spent years learning my trade. She has done it on her first outing, and that is close to astounding.”Lisa McInerney: ‘The phone has to be in another room. And even then I’ll play Minesweeper' His fellow judge Katy Guest, former literary editor of the Independent on Sunday, agreed. “It was so new and different, and fresh and exciting … It blew our minds, and was unlike anything we’ve read – we loved the sheer exuberance of it,” she said. “We think she’s going to be a hero, this woman.”McInerney’s double win of the Baileys and the Desmond Elliott follows fellow Irish writer Eimear McBride, who achieved the same two years ago. The prize has also been won by authors including Ali Shaw, Ros Barber and Nikita Lalwani.Announcing McInerney as his winner on Tuesday evening, Pears called on publishers to support new writers and their editors.“We should never forget that editors and authors work in partnership; each must support the other. Authors need time to grow and develop, but editors need the encouragement to stick with them during this long – and sometimes erratic – process. And they deserve our applause when they do: applause the Desmond Elliott prize is happy to deliver,” he said.“With luck, all the authors on our shortlist will get that support, as they have already shown what they can achieve, and have given a hint about what they might be able to accomplish in the future.”