When Kidulthood came out in 2006, I was 15 years old and it felt like a defining moment. Other cities had their representation of youth culture just over a decade before, in 1995. In Paris it was La Haine and in New York it was Kids. Before that, Boyz n the Hood and Menace II Society had paved the way for raw and gritty films that dealt with violence, social issues and navigating the road to adulthood.Julieta, Brotherhood, Popstar and Purge: Election Year – Film Weekly podcast Kidulthood follows a group of teenagers the day after the suicide of one of their classmates. Given a day off school to mourn, 15-year-old Trife and ex-girlfriend Alisa try to distract themselves from her newly discovered pregnancy. Trife, with his friends Moony and Jay, struggle against the prejudice of cab drivers and security guards and end up tangled in trouble with school bad boy Sam. Alisa trades sexual favours for drugs with Becky, a young girl with an air of confidence who is being exploited by older, richer men.The parents in the film are well-intentioned but clueless about the pressure, bullying and daily issues their kids face. Ultimately, the spiralling loss of control of these situations results in the death of Trife at the hands of Sam at a house party.Kidulthood was special because it was the first film I felt was made for an audience like me. It was urgent and relevant because it dealt with a world that is so often underrepresented and misunderstood. With no contrived heroes, the characters felt familiar and convincing, concerned with video games, sex and the choices that could change their lives forever.The soundtrack featured British artists such as Wiley, Dizzee Rascal and The Streets whose tracks I had on my iPod Mini. Everything about the film seemed authentic and close to home.The film gained my trust as a teenager because it was intent on telling a reality that was largely unrecorded in other films that I had come across at the time or in the media in general. When Adulthood was released two years later, I was eager to see what was next. As the title suggested, it was darker and more grown up. Noel Clarke, who had written Kidulthood and starred as Sam, took over as director and continued to tell the story six years on from the death of Trife. Sam had come out of prison and was dealing with the fallout of his actions on the outside.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Brotherhood: Noel Clarke’s London crime trilogy races to the finishMany of the characters returned, and seeing where they had ended up was a bit like seeing people from school pop up on Facebook – I could draw links between them and the people I knew.The stakes were higher, the violence greater and the whole thing more slick. My favourite scene was when Sam burst out of the window away from the police with Skrein’s Reach in the background. It was powerful and I liked what Clarke had done with it. A year later, I found myself in a police station in the Dominican Republic following a hectic 24 hours in which I was mugged at gunpoint in Santo Domingo. After eventually sorting out my papers the police officer turned to me and said: “You’re British right?” “Yeah” I replied. “I’m watching a film from your country and I’m finding it difficult to understand all of your slang. What does ‘gash’ mean?” he asked. It turned out he was watching Kidulthood and I ended up watching the remainder of the film with him, translating what was going on.I hadn’t given much thought to the language in the film up until that point, but it made me realise another reason why the film resonated with me so much. Often writers for TV and film don’t do a very convincing job of recreating the language that young people use. Clarke changed that.From Molenbeek to Hollywood – why Belgian thriller Black is the new La Haine This was something he continued in Brotherhood, which I saw last week. Sam’s age was apparent when juxtaposed with the fresh blood of Stormzy’s character, who mocks him for still using the word “blud”. Clarke is aware that times have changed and he knows his core audience is looking at these details.Watching on, I wondered if these would be lost on critics. Clarke upped the ante with the finale and clearly wanted to have some fun with it. It doesn’t feel as real as Kidulthood, but that doesn’t matter to me. I’ve grown into adulthood with these films and apart from perhaps the Channel 4 series Top Boy, there has been very few that have come close to them.Over time I’ve realised that it’s been important for me to follow the actors in the film even more than the characters themselves. Seeing someone like Clarke write a film with such a diverse cast has been inspirational. Now I’m a bit older I am more aware of what kinds of challenges minorities face in film, entertainment and media. I have great respect for what this trilogy has achieved. Brotherhood gave me a sense of closure in what has been a defining decade in my life. I just hope the next generation has more films like this, that reflect who they are and inspire them with ideas of what they could be.