On the northern outskirts of Dhaka, the Bangladeshi capital, sits Duaripara, a slum that is home to more than 40,000 people. For teenage girls, life here is tough.The country has one of the highest rates of child marriage, with more than half of Bangladeshi girls marrying before adulthood. For a documentary as part of the BBC Identity season, I met teenage brides who were married and abandoned before they were 16.Like many people living in Duaripara slum, 15-year-old Rogina moved to Dhaka looking for work. She arrived with her father, brother and sister last month, leaving her mother and three other siblings 150 miles away in Sylhet, where she had been married off to a man 12 years her senior.Educating girls could cut child marriage in Bangladesh by a third, study says “I got married at 13 or 14 years old, while I was still at school. It would have been better if I could have said no. The day after the wedding he did it forcibly. When he grabbed me I screamed. I felt very scared but he said, ‘There’s nothing to fear, all girls do it after marriage. You’re not a child any more. You’re married now so you’ll have to do and listen to what I say.’” Three months later, he left.Marriage and money go hand in hand in Bangladesh. Girls are often married off in the hope that their husband will look after them and feed them when their families cannot. But all too often, once married, the husband demands dowries that the girl’s family simply cannot pay.Sharmin was married at 14. Before long, her husband demanded a dowry of 30,000 taka (£270).“After marriage he stayed for nine months with me and then he started saying, ‘You have to bring some money so I can start a business.’ So he beat me up and then he left.” Sharmin was four months pregnant when her husband abandoned her.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sharmin was abused by her husband, whom she married when she was only 14. She was four months pregnant when he left her.Bangladesh is a male-dominated society where unmarried young women are harassed just for walking down the street. Merely speaking to a boy can damage a girl’s reputation.It also has one of the highest rates of child marriage, with 52% of girls married before the legal age of 18, according to a Unicef report in June 2015. One in five marry before their 15th birthday.The consequences can be devastating. Girls who are married at a young age are more likely than their unmarried peers to experience domestic abuse and many girls report that their first sexual experience is forced. According to a 2014 report by the Bangladesh bureau of statistics, 87% of married women experienced mental or physical abuse by their partner.It is not uncommon for these young brides to be left by their husbands. Financially, this leaves the girls in a difficult position unless they can find work to support themselves.Love conquers all? Not for child brides who choose neither sweetheart nor spouse | Ashley Judd Duaripara slum is a stone’s throw away from the highrises that house garment factories. Within days of arriving in Dhaka, Rogina found a job in a textile factory, but she is determined to find employment in a garment factory as soon as she can. Such work can mean long hours for little money and working conditions are often poor. But the rewards are substantial: the pay Rogina would receive – about 3,000 taka before overtime and 5,000 taka after – is the same as her father earns as a rickshaw puller.Sharmin is also determined to find work as soon as her baby is old enough. Her father is a farmhand, but her wages in a garment factory would outstrip his.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A view of the Duaripara slum, on the northern outskirts of Dhaka, the Bangladeshi capital.For the girls, the change in their marital status has resulted in more freedom. Their virginity had been highly prized and the pressure to marry was unavoidable. Now they have more choice. As Rogina explains: “You don’t get harassed as much. Before marriage, many boys harass you. It’s constant. A girl cannot go out alone at night. People would kidnap or rape her. People also spread rumours; if a girl talks to a boy, they say, ‘She will run away with that boy. She has no husband. She’s having an affair.’”Escaping child marriage in Bangladesh - in pictures In 2014, the government committed to ending child marriage. At the Girl Summit, Sheikh Hasina, the prime minister, pledged to end marriage under the age of 15 by 2021 and of 18 by 2041. Yet it is hard to see how these girls will be allowed to reach their potential unless the way in which young women are viewed changes.This is something the girls themselves realise.“It would be great if I were a boy,” says Sharmin. “I wouldn’t have had to have been a mother, my husband wouldn’t have left me. If I were a boy I wouldn’t have had to marry so early. Boys can marry whenever they want, even in old age. Boys can do what they want.”The Forgotten Girls of Dhaka is on BBC World News on Friday 22 April at 14.30 GMT and on BBC World Service on Wednesday 27 April at 19.30 GMT