An exhibition celebrating the origins of Sir Hardy Amies, revered supplier of tailoring to society and royalty, opens this week in the east London borough of Dagenham.Photographs and letters, memorabilia and original designs including a pink hat and coat created for the Queen’s silver jubilee will feature in the exhibition, as well as a moth-eaten and battered object Amies kept his whole life – his old cap from Brentwood School. Amies returned to the school several times, to open a bazaar in the 1950s, to give a fundraising fashion show in 1957 and, in the 1960s, to redesign the girls’ uniform still being worn today.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Amies (right) describing an idea for a new gown. Photograph: Peter Waugh“It’s been largely forgotten even by most people living in Dagenham and he is often seen as a snobby and elitist figure – but he never attempted to deny his origins, which clearly meant a lot to him,” said curator Amy de la Haye, professor of dress history at the London College of Fashion, part of the University of the Arts London.The exhibition is being created in a building Amies would have known well, Valence House, a miraculous survivor in suburbia of a house datingin part to the 1400s, now a local authority museum.Amies was born in London in 1909 and moved to Dagenham as a toddler when his father got a job helping create the Becontree Estate, once the largest council house estate in the world. Their first home, an old farmhouse, was demolished long ago, but they then moved to the White House, another remarkable survivor which is being rescued from dereliction as a community arts centre by Create London.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Queen’s silver jubilee outfit, designed by Sir Hardy Amies. Photograph: © Royal Collection Trust/All Rights ReservedHis mother was a dressmaker and he followed her into couture, but only opened his own Savile Row salon after the second world war, in which he served in British intelligence and the special operations executive. He was official dressmaker to the Queen from 1955 until he retired in 1989, and other projects included costumes for the science fiction film, 2001: A Space Odyssey. He was knighted in 1996.De la Haye said that when Amies died in 2003, many of the contents of his elegant flat were given to Central St Martin’s art college and are now going on display for the first time - including the old school cap, which she described as “the jewel in the collection”.Steve Lawrence, a local carpenter who has worked on the White House and the Valence House exhibition, discovered Amies when he became fed up at the buttons falling off his winter coat.“Every winter I would buy a coat, and every winter the buttons would fall off,” he said. “I decided that what I needed was a proper old school overcoat, the kind everyone’s dad had that lasted for ever. When I found one in a second hand shop the guy said he had some suits as well – and that was my first Hardy Amies suit.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photographer Zokaya Kamara in a Hardy Amies jumper. Photograph: Souvid DattaAlthough his suits are now museum pieces, with two on display in the exhibition, Lawrence wears one to work every day – and just this week bought another online for £5. His mate, he says in bewilderment, just spent £200 on a pair of new jeans.Lawrence says the Amies suits are “warm, they’re practical, they look good - and they never wear out”.De la Haye says the secret of Amies’ enduring style is simple: “He was a very very good tailor.”Hardy Amies, a Dagenham Designer, 3 December to 25 February 2017. Free admission.