Hugh’s War on Waste: The Battle Continues 9pm, BBC1Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall’s environmental quest continues. This time around, he takes aim at two specific targets: Amazon and its often excessive use of packaging; and high street coffee giants Starbucks, Costa and Caffè Nero. We throw away an astonishing 2.5bn empty cups every year, most of us thinking they can be recycled. Thanks to a layer of polyethylene, which keeps the cups watertight, they can’t, and Hugh wants to do something about it. Ben ArnoldCelebrity MasterChef 8pm, BBC1The final four must become three in time for Friday night’s cook-off and the competition is as tough as the tasks. Quietly confident Louise Minchin, Jimmy “Kitchen Firestarter” Osmond, presenter Alexis Conran and Sid Owen plus his blue glasses must first of all attempt to emulate John Torode’s mouthwatering fried chicken. Then they have to rustle up a meal for a table of ravenous food critics while Torode and Wallace cackle in the background throughout. Hannah VerdierBrexit: What’s Your House Worth? – Tonight 8.30pm, ITVIn its coverage urging Britons to leave the European Union, for once the Daily Mail did not resort to its usual tactic of fretting about what effect it would have on house prices. Perhaps it should have done. With the pound tanking and the country in post-Brexit political turmoil, Jonathan Maitland asks if we are on the verge of a house-price crash. And would a deflation of the market make property more affordable for first-time buyers? David StubbsThe Refugee Camp: Our Desert Home 9pm, BBC2Second half of this excellent report from Zaatari, the refugee camp in north-eastern Jordan established to harbour people fleeing fighting in neighbouring Syria. Over the last four years, Zaatari has grown from a few tents in the desert into a city of 80,000 people. The strength of the documentary lies in its emphasis on the urban mundanity of everyday life in Zaatari – its businesses, sports, schools, hospitals and its local celebrities. Andrew MuellerRoger Bannister: Everest on The Track 9pm, BBC4On 6 May 1954, Roger Bannister did a half-day’s work before running the first ever sub-four minute mile. This cheerful amateurism is key to the appeal of a documentary that celebrates this epochal achievement in the context of an austere but hopeful era, during which Britain counted the cost of the second world war but began to dream of the future again. Sebastian Coe, Bannister’s running mates and the man himself, now in his 80s, ponder the moment. Phil HarrisonLove Child9pm, More4Sydney circa 1969, and the city is not the only thing to be swinging as Johnny takes it upon himself to streak past Stanton House. This leads to trouble with Shirley, while Annie’s attempts to reclaim her baby are blocked by a social worker displaying an Atos-esque lack of compassion. Joan’s determination to help reunite mother and child ends in confrontation. An escape route is then offered to Patricia by her haughty mother but it comes with harsh conditions. Mark Gibbing-JonesGirls in the Band 9pm, PBS AmericaThis insightful doc charts the difficulties faced by female jazz musicians in the US from the 30s onwards, be it from men returning from the war to dominate the big band world again or the Jim Crow laws that threatened the lives of black performers. Narrated by musicians including saxophonists, trombonists and drummers, and comprising much archive footage, it focuses on the women’s achievements as well as the prejudice they railed against. Hannah J DaviesFilm choiceUnknown (Jaume Collet-Serra, 2011) 9pm, Film4Liam Neeson’s scientist awakes from a coma after a Berlin car smash with a big problem: no one, including his wife (January Jones), appears to know who he is – and mysterious killers are out to finish him off. Neeson makes a slightly more vulnerable American abroad than in his Taken films, in a suspenseful conspiracy thriller. Paul HowlettLive sportFootball: Borussia Dortmund v Man City More pre-season prestige in the International Champions Cup. 12.15pm, Sky Sports 1Racing: Glorious Goodwood It’s Ladies’ Day, plus races at 2pm, 2.35pm, 3.10pm and 3.45pm. 1.35pm, Channel 4Golf: The USPGA Championship Following hot on the heels of the Open, the final major of the year comes from the Baltusrol Golf Club in New Jersey 7pm, Sky Sports 4