When Meryl faced down the Hollywood royalty at this year’s Golden Globes, and addressed the matter of Donald Trump’s then-impending presidency, she made a clarion call to them: “Turn your broken heart into art.”The applause was obviously rapturous – as though the entire dream factory were saying, “We got this.” In that moment, you knew that this was a community that would leave no superhero franchise sequel unturned in the battle between cinema and evil. This would be their Ragnarök. Not literally – I believe Ragnarök is a term now wholly owned by the Walt Disney Company. Its Thor: Ragnarok will be emoting pointfully on to our screens this October, usefully deploying actors from Chris Hemsworth to Tom Hiddleston to Cate Blanchett to Anthony Hopkins to Benedict Cumberbatch to Idris Elba to Mark Ruffalo to Sam Neill and Jeff Goldblum. (Don’t be too hard on them – there are pretty much no other movies to be in.) I can’t remember which hyper-masculine vigilante is going to have to fight which of the other ones to stop the woman getting what she wants, but insist that at least one of the stars uses the premiere red carpet to encourage ordinary people to dial the Capitol switchboard and ask to be put through to their representative’s secretary to make their power felt.Even so, there will be those who don’t feel enormously reassured that the entire money-shitting town is quite as heartbrokenly opposed to the Trump era as is widely imagined. A little less than a year ago, Bret Easton Ellis tweeted on his return from a dinner party in West Hollywood, reporting that “the majority of the table was voting for Trump but they would never admit it publicly”. Whatever the case, as the Oscars gear up to garland another inoffensively worshipful movie about Hollywood itself (La La Land), we might need a little more than awards speeches to convince us that the business is going to make Trump its business in any remotely courageous way.Of course, the studios may regard it as sufficiently radical to announce sequels and slate them for release in 2020, as they did with Minions 2 and Sing 2 this week – and I suppose, in a way, the implication that there will still be things such as movie theatres and children and whatnot in 2020 is a concerted act of political optimism. Furthermore, as someone who went to Washington last week and found it much like wandering around in the opening scenes of a Paul Verhoeven film, I agree that reality itself is becoming fairly cinematic.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Director Michael Bay: undisputed president of blowing things up. Photograph: Steve Marcus/ReutersEven so, some sort of direct engagement with You-Know-Who should be unavoidable for a creative industry that still considers itself the premier art form of the age (even though it isn’t). And so to the words you should never get tired of reading: enter Michael Bay. Yes, Bay is straight out of the traps on this one. The undisputed president of blowing stuff up is to produce the first movie that appears to at least nod toward the Trump era. After a hotly contested bidding war, Universal this week announced it has acquired the rights to Little America.Over to the Hollywood Reporter. “Described by sources as a ‘sci-fun’ story rather than ‘sci-fi,’” we learn, “the tale is set in a dystopian future where a Donald Trump-like president has bankrupted America and China has called in its debts. The Asian giant now owns the US, and many Americans have emigrated to China looking for work.”So many angles! I particularly like how it gets round the whole don’t-piss-off-China imperative in modern movie marketing by setting the story after they’ve won. It’s like their guy Sun Tzu said: all battles are won or lost before they are ever fought – and in this case, before the opening scene showing a group of handsome alpha businessmen joking about how poorly their American chauffeurs drive, before sending one of them out for a Yankee takeaway and pretending not to understand them when they get back.Anyway, let’s continue: “In this new world, a former American Force Recon member is hired by a Chinese billionaire to go into an American ghetto and rescue his daughter.”Hmm. On the one hand, I think I already saw this movie (twice, if you count Escape From LA). On the other, at least I liked it. Even if it’s only in flashback, could Kurt Russell play the Trump figure in the old Knowing Nod to the earlier work? And given it is explicitly described as sci-fun, could someone try to dissuade the hero from going in after the daughter by saying: “Forget it Zhang – it’s Americatown”?For now, Lost in Showbiz simply offers these suggestions gratis, and awaits news of further broken-heart/art alchemy at Hollywood’s very earliest convenience.