On 27 May, a small earthquake shook Blackpool. On 21 September, a much larger 'shock' hit the Lancashire town: the apparent discovery of a globally significant shale gas field, thanks to drilling that may have caused the first tremor.Two crucial questions follow. Is the extent of the find true and, if it is, does it change how the UK will keep its lights on? Gas power stations, cheap and fast to build, are after all the government's get out of jail free card as the pressures of rising prices and closing coal stations crowd in.Cuadrilla, the exploration company hoping to blast vast amounts of gas from the shale below Lancashire by fracking, say they have discovered a reserve of 200 trillion cubic feet. If correct, that sends Blackpool from the periphery of the UK tourist industry to the centre of the global gas market. This small patch of Lancashire would be the biggest single reserve in the world and equivalent to 20% of the whole of China's shale gas resource, which is the biggest in the world.The figure is 40 times the estimate the British Geological Survey made last year for the government, for an area 15 times larger than Cuadrilla's licence area. The verdict of several geological experts I spoke to is that Cuadrilla's number is just about possible but must have giant uncertainties. I asked the company what the range of their estimate was: they don't know, or won't say. In any case, the geologists say, reliable estimates need hundreds of wells, not the two Cuadrilla have used for their estimates.But let's say Blackpool has indeed struck a gas bonanza. The trouble will be getting it out of the ground. The BGS estimate was called over-optimistic by the government, as it assumed the dense forest of wellheads tapping shale gas in Texas would be replicated in England's green fields.Cuadrilla is playing the tease in all this. Yes, shareholders, we have huge assets, but no prudish public, we won't be pushing them in your face. Yes, we'll provide thousands of jobs, but no, we are being sensibly modest about how much gas might actually come up. But they still talk of shale gas being a gamechanger for UK energy, as it has been in the US as fracking crushed the gas price.And, as energy secretary Chris Huhne told me in Birmingham this week, it is the gas price that is the crucial figure for UK energy. A high gas price means more nuclear and renewables, he said, and a low price means more gas power stations.However, there is one more problem: carbon. Even the gas power capacity already built and planned is too great if the UK is to meet its legally binding carbon targets, as Huhne acknowledged for the first time this week. The only get-out clause is capturing and storing the carbon pumped out from these plants, but a promised demonstration plant has yet to get off the government's desk. Even worse, some recent studies indicate that the leaking of methane, a potent greenhouse gas, means shale gas is worse for the climate than coal.So will the great gas strike of 2011 be remembered as changing the UK's power game forever? Given the heroic estimate of its size, the challenge of asking Lancastrians to accept an industrial-scale piercing of their county and the impossible peril unabated gas poses to our fight against global warming, the idea has its foundations on shaky ground.