This blog features spoilers for seasons two and six of The Good Wife.The Good Wife creators Michelle and Robert King love to put Alicia Florrick (Julianna Margulies) through the wringer. We’re used to seeing her shining in triumph, then an episode later sipping from a salad bowl of red wine after yet another scandal; the Kings don’t allow monumental highs without devastating lows. So with the seventh – and potentially final – season beginning tonight in the UK, where is Florrick’s head currently at?Julianna Margulies on Alicia Florrick: 'She doesn’t give a damn any more' We began last season with Diane Lockhart (Christine Baranski) merging with the Florrick/Agos firm, which we welcomed, given their combined knack for scathing putdowns. Alicia is initially unsure whether to run for state attorney but, with Eli Gold (Alan Cumming) able to slip into melodramatic campaign-pusher mode, it’s not long before she decides to go for it – with a little help from a poignant Gloria Steinem guest appearance. Meanwhile, Alicia’s business partner Cary Agos (Matt Czuchry) finds himself in a spot of bother after a crew member of drug lord Lemond Bishop (Mike Colter) records him seemingly giving legal advice on moving a whole lot of heroin. His bail money is finally found through a $4m case win for their old pals ChumHum.Archie Panjabi’s Kalinda goes back to what she does best: sassy backchat, top-notch investigative triumphs and selective sleeping around. As Cary yearns for more than just a late-night booty call, Kalinda is back with Federal Agent Lana Delaney (Jill Flint), who in turn is also investigating Lemond Bishop. Forging some information on evidence for Cary’s case, Kalinda is forced to go on the run, leading to her eventual departure from the show.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Resisting sexual tension ... Matthew Goode and Julianna Margulies in season six of The Good Wife. Photograph: CBSAlicia gains her state attorney opponent in the form of news anchor Frank Prady (David Hyde Pierce) – and, in a fist-in-the-air moment, beats him. But of course she doesn’t get an easy ride. Her son Zach gets his underage girlfriend an abortion; Peter once again cheats on her, this time with her old friend Ramona Lytton, played by Connie Nielson. An email hack meanwhile releases proof of her season two affair with Will Gardner. Accused of hacking the voting machines, she is given the help of Spencer Randolph (Ron Rifkin), a civil rights lawyer she has long admired... and he screws her over, forcing her to step down as state attorney. It’s a little insulting, then, when Peter announces he’ll be running for the US presidency.'We're all news junkies': why The Good Wife writing team is one of TV's sharpest Having been forced out by her firm (now Lockhart/Agos/Lee) after her state’s attorney appointment and later scandal, she has nowhere left to turn but her kinda-flame, Finn Polmar (Matthew Goode). The sexual tension frustratingly resists rearing its head, but we do witness some light hand-holding and forlorn looks in expensive bars. She asks him to set up a firm with her (yes, another) but Finn decides the tension is all too much for any sort of professional relationship. Luckily, there’s a knock on the door from Michael J Fox’s Louis Canning: “Wanna partner?” Given Alicia and Louis’ courtroom duels, their partnership could be a highlight of the new season. The Good Wife will mirror the real-life presidential race in new season The Good Wife gets its edge from mirroring current affairs – and with Peter pitted up against Hilary for the race to the White House, the show’s reactivity will truly be tested. It also bags piquant guest appearances – as well as Fox, I’d welcome back Carrie Preston’s Elsbeth Tascioni, along with Dylan Baker’s devilish Colin Sweeney. With Kalinda gone meanwhile, it could mean a return for Jess Weixler’s Robyn Burdine.Rumoured to be the last we see of The Good Wife, season seven gives its creators the chance to bring some solace to their heroine before they leave the show – of course, not without the trials and tribulations she’s so good at getting through. But as close as fans have grown to Alicia over these past six seasons, the emotional rollercoasters – while almost replacing your weekly cardio with their assault on your heartrate – are a little tiresome for those of us rooting for her success. The Kings love to sucker-punch plot advancements, such as the state attorney story, which almost makes it feel as though we’ve wasted our investment in those next steps. When Alicia is happy, she snogs her campaign manager and has tender moments with her daughter Grace; by exploring this side of her, the writers can make more time for her all-too-infrequent sassiness. Confident, fiery Alicia is the best kind to watch – a more human Alicia. Not only does she deserve a happy ending, but with so many setbacks these past few seasons, her viewers deserve one too.