Everybody knows the potency of the smell of home. House sellers must bake whenever a buyer might swing by. For some, lilac or lavender signifies reassuring domesticity; for others, old leather or wood polish.For me, it’s burnt meat. I live within sniffing distance of a grand parade of great, cheap Turkish grill restaurants. It’s lovely, even for the ex-veggie, even when you’re not especially peckish, not least because it means no one who lives round there ever bothers having their own barbecue, so the smell is kept at a happy distance, rather than filling the living room. Walk two miles further into town and you come to one posh park – Highbury Fields – now so swamped by impromptu barbies (about 100 at one time have been sighted) residents risk strokes if they open their windows.How eco-friendly are barbecues? | Lucy Siegle A Kings College report into the pollution said: “Mean concentrations [of fine particulate matter] were higher [in the park] than even at the kerbside of a busy London trunk route.” A more poetic local added: “On a busy day, a pall of blue smoke hangs over the fields, and due to the basin-like topography of the park and surrounding trees it stays there.”If I were mayor, I think I’d be tempted to ban all forms of picnic, not just those that involve highly concentrated levels of carcinogens and calories (your average intake, per barbie, is one-and-a-half-times the recommended daily total). Nothing wrong with a couple of stubbies and a packet of crisps, but there’s something slightly nightmarish about organised outdoor eating, with all the lugging and the crumbling, the festering and the mess. Any sort of meal alfresco, especially without a car or servants, is never less than intensely stressful. And if the principle behind the trip is to get some fresh air, to become a bit healthier, why immediately nix that with smoke and lard? When your focus is on prodding sausages and wondering how long coleslaw can survive beneath the beating sun, nature takes second place in your thinking anyway. Barbies are a scorched-earth hobby that benefit neither place nor people. Unless that place is a restaurant.The pursuit of Mappiness The phrase “grumpy old woman” is woefully out of date. It is the young – or at least not that elderly – who now specialise in humourlessness, while their parents remain capable of larks. It is the fresh-faced who, for instance, download the Mappiness app developed by the London School of Economics to anxiously monitor contentment, while the old folks just crack on with the party. This generation gap was brilliantly reflected in a movie at Cannes called Toni Erdmann, about a successful businesswoman in her mid-30s whose prank-loving dad pays a visit in the hope of lightening her up. It highlights what bad company people umbilically linked to their phones are, lapping up facts and tasks, self-conscious and imaginatively stifled. Checking your Mappiness level does not a blithe spirit make.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Seeing pylons stride across the landscape can be spectacular.’ Photograph: Andrew Milligan/PAPylons? They’re electrifying! The high-stakes stories involving crocs and gorillas have overshadowed a recent inept cat rescue by the Algerian civil defence force. Instead of scooping the puss safely down from the telegraph pole it had scampered up, they frightened it on to the wires, used a big stick to dislodge it, then missed its falling body with their outstretched blanket. They should have let it be. The desire to shin up such things is utterly explicable, even for the two-legged.Seeing pylons stride across the landscape can be spectacular. Unsuccessfully listening for the nightingales at Lodge Hill in Medway on Monday – before the proposed housing development forces their exit – you instead survey the view: the salt marshes Dickens immortalised, the Thames beyond, cranes and pumping stations, and Essex in the distance. But what really makes it are the pylons: giddying pinnacles, splitting land and sky. If I’d been braver, I’d have tried to climb them too.