Having spent her 30s working abroad as a tour guide, Lou Thorpe felt it was time to put down roots and buy her first property. “I had no permanence,” says Thorpe, 45, now a charity worker. “I was tired of being in a different hotel every night and needed something that was mine.” Six years ago she found the perfect place – a two-bedroom 1930s semi in Low Fell, a suburb of Gateshead, where she grew up. Even the street name, Home Avenue, seemed perfect as I hadn’t had a home for eight years “I liked the fact that it was dilapidated and in need of TLC,” she says. “Even the name of the street, Home Avenue, seemed perfect as I hadn’t had a home after eight years of travelling.” Although the survey gave a “red” condition rating for everything, Thorpe wasn’t put off. “Everyone thought I was crazy, and perhaps I was naive, but I needed somewhere to live so I took a gamble,” she says.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tiles with style: the bathroom. Photograph: Jill TateThanks to an army of mates in boiler suits smashing the house back to the brickwork with crowbars in return for a few beers and barbecues, it was made habitable within two months. “Really, I bought a wreck of a place that was way beyond my skill, experience and ability to turn into a home,” she admits. “But I’m lucky to have so many handy friends.”As well as re-wiring, re-plastering and sanding the floorboards, they also knocked down part of the hallway wall to create a more open-plan dining room and replaced the battered old window with patio doors. The gardens have been landscaped to create a lawn and barbecue area with fire pit – a big improvement on the smashed-up greenhouse and concrete where the previous owner repaired cars.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I just love the colours’: the bedroom. Photograph: Jill TateWith an eye for a bargain, Thorpe has also managed to furnish and decorate the entire house for under £2,000. “I had nothing as I’d lived out of a suitcase for so long, so I had to start from scratch,” she says. “Pretty much everything is second hand except the fridge, the washing machine and the bed. Even the kitchen was pieced together from 1950s and 1960s aluminium cabinets.” Pretty much everything is second hand except the fridge, the washing machine and the bed Thorpe favours charity shops and car boot sales and recommends St Oswald’s at Newcastle’s Kingston Park, Kasbah Furniture Market in North Shields and Alnwick Exchange in Northumberland. “I love mid-century furniture – very stylish and proper,” she says. “But I hate anything shabby chic or upcycled.” A case in point is the 50s Beautility sideboard-cum-cocktail cabinet in the living room. “Items always seem to find me when I least expect them, want them or can afford them,” she says.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mirrors mirrors on the wall: the dining room. Photograph: Jill TateHer favourite room used to be the dining room – dubbed “the orange room”. “It’s more a second lounge, library or chill-out room,” she says. “It has my favourite furniture and is also the happiest room, where good things happen, like parties and get-togethers.” These days her preferred room is the master bedroom, as it was decorated with partner Barry, who she met five months after moving in. Luckily the 49-year-old joiner shares her taste in interiors. The pair often find bargains together during jaunts in their camper van. “I just love the colours, the wallpaper and the furniture in here,” she says. “Especially the corner with the armchair and the German vases.”Thorpe is so enamoured of her home that she’s even christened it “Arohanui” which means “Big Love” in Maori, a reference to her time spent living in New Zealand. But putting down roots hasn’t entirely curbed her itchy feet. “I always said I wouldn’t let having a house tie me down or stop me from travelling. We could always rent it out for six months,” says Thorpe. “As much as I’m proud if it – at the end of the day it’s just bricks and mortar.”