English cherry farmers – celebrating the biggest harvest in more than a decade – can look forward to as much as a 30% annual increase in the crop over the next five years as more orchards are planted.Up to 3,500 tonnes of English cherries are expected to be delivered to stores this year, more than three times as much as last year and well ahead of the 400 tonnes gleaned in 2000. The crop is expected to increase by more than 1,000 tonnes again next year and keep rising in the following years, helping to replace imported fruit. The rapid expansion comes after farmers discovered growing dwarf trees in polytunnels could increase crops more than fivefold from the same area of land. The price of English cherries is predicted to drop by as much as a fifth compared with 2011 figures in the next three years."It's a traditional summer fruit," said Craig Rook, farms manager at FW Mansfield & Son in Kent, one of the largest cherry growers in the UK. "We're trying to displace importers with a system of production that can give the supermarkets continuity and consistency of supply."Rook, who sells to the likes of Waitrose and Marks & Spencer, said FW Mansfield & Son was planting 5,000 new trees a year adding more than 20 hectares (50 acres) of new orchards over the last six years.He added that UK growers had learned from the success of polytunnels for strawberries helping put more British fruit on the table for a greater part of the summer. Almost all soft fruit is now grown under plastic in the UK, which helped to double yields and extend the season to as long as eight months.Many farmers abandoned cherries 10 years ago because the trees could grow as high as 30m (100ft). That made harvesting difficult, potentially dangerous and expensive while the trees were almost impossible to protect from pests and the elements.The new trees tend to be less than 3m (10ft) high and fit in polytunnels. This year there would have been an even bigger crop if not for a cold, damp spring which delayed the harvest by a few weeks. About 80% of orchards are now covered, so the downpours have not had the same impact as they did last year when less than a third were covered and rain destroyed about £6m worth of cherries.Not everyone is happy about the new rash of polytunnels, with a number of farmers facing planning battles with local residents unhappy about the unsightly plastic. Last year about 4,000 hectares of strawberries and raspberries were covered by polytunnels but less than 170 hectares of cherries. This year more than three times that amount of cherries is expected to be covered.Graeme Willis, senior rural policy campaigner at the Campaign to Protect Rural England, said: "It's about not putting polytunnels in the most sensitive landscapes such as by national parks and areas of outstanding natural beauty."There is not only a visual impact but an impact on tourism and on services nearby because these farms bring in a number of people to work in the polytunnels."Farmers began adopting the new method of growing in earnest about 10 years ago but it can take about four years for trees to reach maturity. The next step is bringing in new varieties and techniques to stretch the traditional English cherry season from about a month to as long as 12 weeks.