It is the educational franchise that just keeps on growing. Horrible Histories, the subversive and often scatalogical series of humorous books whose examination of the past in full, gory detail has gripped generations of children around the world, is now poised to hit the big screen.It is the latest coup for an increasingly elastic brand that now boasts more than 100 titles – stretching from The Savage Stone Age to The Blitzed Brits – and which has sold more than 27m copies worldwide and been translated into 40 languages.Since the series began in 1993 with The Terrible Tudors, Horrible Histories has been reincarnated in the form of plays, interactive online games, magazines, a major BBC television series – even its own version of Monopoly. But its first foray into the cinema takes it into a new and hugely lucrative arena.The series author, Terry Deary, whose famously acerbic views about teachers and historians shows no signs of diminishing, said that a production company had bought the rights to develop a film and was now working on a script and a treatment.“They consulted with me and I suggested they focus on the Romans – the most horrible era of all, when people killed other people for fun and sport and entertainment, and they’re going to run with that. It will take a couple of years to come out.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Horrible Histories books have sold more than 27m copies.Deary, one of the most borrowed authors in Britain’s libraries, has hopes that the stars of the children’s series will be signed up. “Ben Miller and Rowan Atkinson have both appeared in the Horrible Histories television series. Their names will draw in audiences and it would be nice to have somebody like that in it. If Rowan did the television programme, why wouldn’t he want to appear in the movie?”News of the film comes amid yet another extension of the brand. Warwick Castle has just opened a Horrible Histories interactive maze in time for Easter which its owner, Merlin – the company behind Alton Towers – hopes will make “history as accessible and inclusive as possible”.Some will be aghast at the idea of turning history into entertainment. But Deary, who has talked of his ambition to open a Horrible Histories theme park near his home in Durham, is characteristically blunt in his response.“Of course people will be aghast. For years people have said Horrible Histories trivialises history. Do I care? No. Because I’m entertaining people, I’m giving them pleasure and at the same time making them think. Call me all the names you like”.He also claims English Heritage and National Trust, whose properties will be besieged by visitors this weekend, are “deaf to history”, merely guiding people round and telling them what they want them to know.For Deary, the success of Horrible Histories is down to several factors, beginning with engagement. “If nobody picks up the books, switches on the television, goes to the theatre, goes to the maze, then you haven’t even started the journey,” he says. “Once you’ve engaged them, you’ve got to entertain them.”Too many institutions forget this, Deary believes. “I’ve worked on Horrible Histories exhibitions, with museums that had better remain nameless, and when they show artefacts they insist on putting their labelling on them, which absolutely kills any interest. They have their format and they don’t understand the process of engaging and entertaining before you inform; they just inform.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Author Terry Deary is famously acerbic about historians and teachers. Photograph: Mark ChilversToo much history is about learning dates, says Deary, rather than about what makes people tick. “My hero is Shakespeare and he had the same mission as me – to explore the one question that matters: why do people behave the way they do? History is quite useful for me, even though I’m not a historian. You look back and say: why did people behave the way they did then?”Another Deary hero is Roald Dahl. “I couldn’t have written this 50 years ago. It took Roald Dahl to open the door and say that black humour for children was acceptable.” A third is Catherine Cookson, whom Deary credits with blazing a trail for northern writers.Like Cookson, Deary is prodigious. He has penned close to 300 books and, contrary to reports, has not stopped writing Horrible Histories. A new book – about castles – comes out in September.At some stage, Deary may run out of history. Might he then turn his attention to more contemporary matters?“If someone wanted me to write about the Syrian conflict, I would research and write it. I’m a hack. I write what I’m told to write.”