Born in a Jordanian refugee camp to Palestinian parents, Asma Aradeh is stateless. The 36-year-old mother of six is one of more than 30,000 Palestinian exiles living for decades in legal limbo in Jordan’s Jerash camp. But there is one silver lining to Aradeh’s story: she is no longer jobless.Three years ago, Aradeh became one of 40 women to join a fledgling social enterprise called SEP Jordan, which manufactures contemporary design products based on traditional Palestinian embroidery. She is now quality controller of the socially minded startup, which has trained around 500 women across the camp. “I was born and raised here all my life,” she says. “We tried very hard to find work [but] we couldn’t go outside the camp for work. SEP came to us; it gave us work close to where we live and even in our own houses.”The company, brainchild of Italian-born Roberta Ventura, a former banker based in Geneva, endeavours to break the “aid trap” in which many refugees find themselves by providing productive, dignified work for women in the camp.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Roberta Ventura. Photograph: Manal Sehaimat/CIINMost women who join SEP have advanced embroidery skills, but all still go through a basic one or two month training programme to ensure they are are up to speed with the company’s designs and quality requirements. There are no firm working times, although SEP doesn’t allow women to work more than four hours a day, to protect their eyesight.Embroidery is labour-intensive. A tablecloth takes eight months to complete on average. At the women’s request, payment is calculated by the amount of thread used rather than hours worked. Ventura insists the approach ensures a dignified wage, although incomes vary according to how much work each woman chooses to do. “The monthly income for the artists can vary from as little as 5 Jordanian dinar (£5.77) to as much as 400 Jordanian dinar (£461), which compares to a minimum wage of 190 dinar in Jordan’s garment sector,” she says.SEP is operating in an environment where employment opportunities are highly restricted. Refugees in Jordan are not permitted to work as teachers, civil servants or any other state-supported job, with the tourism business closed to them as well. So, too, is free schooling after grade 9 (aged 16), which denies most the chance to get their high school diploma – a ticket into the formal labour market.Running a viable business in a refugee camp is no easy task, Ventura concedes. For many women in the camp, simply persuading their husbands to allow them to work can represent a cultural challenge. Technological literacy is also low, so SEP’s inventory and production processes remain largely un-computerised. An even bigger headache is red tape. All the fabric needed has to be imported but customs clearance procedures are “beyond nightmarish”, says Venture. On top of that, courier companies frequently refuse to transport goods to and from the camp, deeming it too dangerous for their drivers.  Three years in and SEP’s field team of five full-time staff plus a small management team in Geneva (which includes Ventura and her husband) have more or less navigated through the production challenges. Now Ventura’s focus is shifting to boosting sales.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   All the fabric needed has to be imported. Photograph: Manal Sehaimat/CIINAt present, its embroidered products – which range from clutches and linen shawls to Kuffyieh scarfs and tablecloths – can be found in boutiques in Paris, London, Geneva, Beirut, Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Amman. Annual sales revenues are currently around US$120,000 (£98,000).Sara Carter, co-founder of Clerkenwell, a design store in London and one of SEP’s stockists, says part of the brand’s appeal is the “little design twists”. The personal stories behind the products are another winning factor, she adds, with each carrying the name of the embroiderer. “When you think how long these products have taken to make and the story behind them, it becomes a lot more real to people,” says Carter. Hidden child labour: how Syrian refugees in Turkey are supplying Europe with fast fashion SEP’s products aren’t cheap, with baby blankets and linen towels retailing at £99 and £178 respectively. It is pitched at the luxury market, given the time embroidered goods take to make and the high costs of production. “We are quite expensive because the women – rightly so – want to be paid well […] What’s important to us is that we’re building loyalty to the company by putting the ladies who work for us at the centre of what we do rather than being in the shadows,” says Ventura.To date, SEP has been financed through private investment. Assuming it meets its projected sales figures, Ventura believes the company will be ready for equity investment from social impact funds in a couple of years. In the interim, the business’s growth plans are reliant on grant funding and in-kind support. One of SEP’s early backers has been Beirut-born businesswoman and human rights activist Mary Nazzal-Batayneh, who gives the pro-refugee social enterprise free retail space in a five-star hotel she owns in Amman. “For me as a Palestinian activist, this is a really important method to tell the story of the longest-standing refugee population in the world,” she says. “And since the refugee crisis is only getting worse and worse, it’s great to have a model where these people can make some kind of living.” Batayneh is helping introduce SEP to potential investors.Creating opportunities for refugees to earn income reinforces self-worth, allows more independence and also reduces the economic burdens on the host nation, says Salil Tripathi, senior adviser on global issues, Institute for Human Rights and Business. “However, care must be taken that labour rights are respected, and if jobs come at the cost of local residents, there must be adequate safeguards, such as skills training and alternative job opportunities to minimise the risk of conflict between refugees and local residents.”