What does the name Neoguri mean?It means raccoon cat. The name was submitted by the Republic of Korea (South Korea) to the World Meteorological Organization, which oversees the list of storm names in the Atlantic and eastern Pacific.Where has Neoguri hit?Typhoon Neoguri has already hit outlying southern islands of Japan. It passed through the southern Okinawa Island Chains on Tuesday, with sustained wind speeds of 108 miles per hour (175 km/h) and gusts of up to 154 mph, according to the Japan Meteorological Agency.How destructive is the storm?Most buildings in Japan are designed to withstand typhoons. Even so, in Okinawa, Neoguri has already claimed two lives. A further 25 have been reported injured, with over 500,000 forced to seek shelter. Around 70,000 homes have been left without power, according to the news agency AFP. Buildings and trees have been brought down, with air and sea traffic brought to a standstill.More destruction is set to follow as the storm bears down on mainland Japan. The country's weather agency has warned that as much as 300 millimetres (12 inches) of rain will have fallen on Kyushu in just 24 hours by noon on Thursday.What is a typhoon?A typhoon is a type of large tropical storm or cyclone that has a circular or spiral system of violent winds, typically hundreds of kilometres across. The winds spiral around a region of low atmospheric pressure known as the "eye".What's the difference between a typhoon, cyclone and hurricane?Both typhoons and hurricanes are powerful tropical cyclones, - storms with very high sustained wind speeds. The only difference between them is their location: typhoons are formed in the western Pacific Ocean, while hurricanes form in the Atlantic or eastern Pacific Ocean.Is Neoguri a typhoon or a super-typhoon?This depends on the wind speed of the storm. A typhoon is any cyclone with a sustained wind speed greater than 74 km/h. Lower wind speeds are classed as topical storms. The Japan Meteorological Agency unofficially divides typhoons into the following categories:• A typhoon has wind speeds of 119 km/h to 156 km/h• A strong typhoon has wind speeds of 157 km/h to 193 km/h• A violent typhoon has wind speeds of 194 km/h to 239 km/h• A super typhoon has wind speeds greater than 240 km/hHow powerful is it?Initially classed as a super-typhoon, Neoguri has been downgraded to a strong typhoon. As such it can devastate any region it hits directly or indirectly, flattening buildings and forming high waves off coastlines.Where will it hit next?Typhoon Neoguri is moving towards mainland Japan. The combination of high pressure to the northeast and a trough of low pressure to the northwest will steer Neoguri in a curve that will take it over or near much of Japan. As Neoguri passes over colder water south of the mainland, the storm will weaken, but will still impact the southern island of Kyushu with gusts of up to 110 mph (180 km/h), the national weather agency said. Nagasaki may also be severely hit, after which Neoguri should retain minimal typhoon strength (winds of 74 mph) into central Japan and is expected to reach the Tokyo area by Friday.How long is it to going to last?It's very difficult to predict when the storm will dissipate. There are a great many factors that will contribute to its longevity and strength, such as surface sea temperature and when it hits land. Most likely, it will be much weakened by the time it has passed over Japan and turn into a large tropical storm.Are typhoons common in the region and will there be more?Yes and yes. Last year there were 30 typhoons in the western Pacific Ocean region. Neoguri is only the ninth this year, making it probable that there will be many more to come in the next few months. Typically about seven or eight pass over Okinawa Prefecture each year, and about three hit the Japanese main islands. Most typhoons dissipate over the Pacific Ocean, causing little disruption.How big is Neoguri compared to others?Japan is no stranger to typhoons, but Neoguri is proving to be a stronger storm than it has experienced in recent years. The Japanese weather agency said Neoguri could be one of the strongest to approach Japan in decades, and issued its highest warnings for violent winds, high waves and heavy rain. However, the wind speeds are not as severe as those experienced by the US under Hurricane Katrina, which hit land with wind speeds of 200 km/h.Could climate change have played a role in its formation?The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the UN body that recently reviewed scientific evidence on the impacts of climate change, concluded: "Tropical cyclone frequency is likely to decrease or remain unchanged over the 21st century, while intensity (ie maximum wind speed and rainfall rates) is likely to increase." However, the IPCC said it was harder to make region-specific projections. Extreme cyclones in Asia since 1970 have claimed more than half a million lives. 