Dr Orchid is a brilliant biologist with a PhD in plant toxicology, a mysterious past and a seriously minxy expression. She also probably did it with a lead pipe in the drawing room, because contrary to appearances, Dr Orchid is not actually a Bond girl. She’s a Cluedo character. And if you don’t remember her then you probably grew up with dreary old Mrs White the cook, now ruthlessly bumped off by the manufacturers in favour of a younger, hotter model.Who killed Mrs White? (It was Hasbro, on the drawing board, with political correctness) | Brydie Lee-Kennedy But the curious thing about the picture most newspapers used this week of the old Mrs White, a rosy-cheeked pensioner, is that actually she hasn’t looked like that in years. In my son’s Cluedo set, White is a sultry young woman in skinny white jeans and stripper heels. Peacock is a blonde bombshell, Plum looks like he runs a start-up in Shoreditch and Mustard is no longer a colonel but a brooding hunk. What’s new about Dr Orchid, though, is that she has the airbrushed perfection of an avatar. First they came for the newsreaders, pensioned off at the first hint of a wrinkle. Now you have to be sexy even to be a murderer.It’s only a kids’ game, of course. No point getting too worked up about it. But Sexy Cluedo is just one more tiny nail in the coffin of it being permissible occasionally to look … less than hot. Not totally selfie-ready. And the spaces in which it is still fine to look less than hot are shrinking.This week, the Women’s Equality party leader Sophie Walker posted on social media an extract from a school trip letter. Girls, it said, were to wear no makeup except “subtle lipgloss”; and if they must wear cropped tops it should be with a longer skirt or shorts. If they did fancy a short skirt then “they must wear a longer top”, which seems to translate as “get your legs or your midriff out but not both”.Walker pointed out that there wasn’t a word on what boys should wear. The responses were indignant, some comparing it to the “slut-shaming” of adult women dressed revealingly or to clumsy advice from schools to replace girls’ skirts every year as they grow. (Mysteriously, parents of boys weren’t advised to replace their trousers, which suggests this may be code for “for heaven’s sake cover your daughters up a bit”.) Nobody wants to go back to a world of needlework teachers covering up sulky 15-year-olds Reading it all, my heart sank. Teenage girls shouldn’t be made to feel any more self-conscious about their looks than many already do. The rules seemed weirdly specific, the whole thing reminiscent of the recent row over a Milton Keynes headteacher sending 29 girls home on the grounds their skirts were not “demure and modest”. (She claimed the boys might see their knickers when they were going upstairs, to which the answer was surely: so teach boys not to leer up girls’ skirts, rather than telling girls to cover up).But – and there is a very big but – the principle that girls should be free to wear what they like on a non-uniform school trip is fine only so far as it recognises that they’re not making those choices in a vacuum.They’re doing it in a world where eight-year-olds worry about their weight, 11-year-olds feel they need to pluck their eyebrows and women tennis players are expected to compete at Wimbledon in teeny dresses slit to their midriffs. And they’re processing all of this in a digital hall of mirrors where it has never been easier to measure the impact of your looks on how much people like you. Trowel on a bit more makeup for your selfie, undo a couple of buttons, and watch those Instagram likes double.Teenage girls have always aimed to look hotter than their parents or teachers may like but they’re now growing up in an arms race of hotness, a war zone where standards of physical perfection just keep escalating. The idea that a 13-year-old’s choices in such an environment are always free seems hopelessly optimistic and while parents would ideally help their daughters navigate all these pressures with confidence, the truth is that some make a lousy job of doing so.So there’s something to be said for the idea of schools providing a demilitarised zone, a sexed-down place where you’re not only allowed to take an occasional breather from trying to look hot, but also obliged to.If my 15-year-old self could see me writing this, she’d hate me. At school in the 1980s, we’d have killed for lipgloss of any kind and a part of me still envies those lucky girls whose mothers let them have stilettos from Freeman, Hardy and Willis rather than clumpy, hideous school shoes.As for skirts, the ban on shortening and tightening our dowdy A-line monstrosities was memorably policed one year by making us take turns to walk the length of the classroom, in a sort of reverse catwalk where the aim was to look as unsexy as possible. If your skirt was deemed too racy, a stern letter went home. Repeat offenders were threatened with the needlework teacher, who it was rumoured would sew oddments of material to your skirt at random to make it “decent”.The curious thing isn’t just that none of our teachers felt remotely obliged to explain why skirts mattered, or what any of it had to do with education. It’s that we didn’t ask. Uniform rules existed to be flouted, obviously, but I don’t remember questioning why the neighbouring boys’ school wasn’t obsessed with the tightness of their trousers.Such dumb acceptance is nothing to get nostalgic about – I like young women’s fearlessness now, their willingness to question everything, much better.But if the point of school uniform was always to reduce competition, levelling the playing field by making everyone look equally drab – well, suddenly that no longer feels like an old-fashioned idea. Nobody wants to go back to a world of needlework teachers covering up sulky 15-year-olds, like so many Victorian piano legs. But we do teenage girls no favours, I suspect, by leaving them with no place to shelter. Sometimes stupid rules are there to hide behind.