If I’ve learned a little about love, I owe it to the clever way the elder generation pretends it can’t operate computers. In 2007, my maternal grandfather, David Hill, gave me the job of transforming his memoir from 200 loose, handwritten pages into a single Word document. Whether my grandfather knew he was changing my life I can only strongly suspect: if so, then he had the grace to disguise the gift as a chore.David was a modest and funny man who restored antiques for a living and magicked coins from behind grandchildren’s ears to make up any shortfall. In the Eastern Daily Press he wrote a much loved column about this and that (the two principal diversions of the British before celebrity and indignation were invented).David was devoted to my grandmother Mary, doting on her with a fondness that was unconditional and unswerving through her long years of mental decline. Growing up, as my own loves waxed and waned, I realised that my grandparents’ bond was a simple habit of their golden generation: an example of that legendary stoicism.I was wrong.David rarely spoke about the second world war and so I was surprised to find that its six years occupied the greater part of his life’s handwritten manuscript. It was as if time had circled the great conflict before resuming its direct course. Even more startling, as I began to type up his memoir, was to discover how close my grandfather had been to the heart of the action. Besieged on Malta, the most stubbornly defended island on earth, he was assigned to mind Randolph Churchill, the prime minister’s stubbornly offensive son. Look after him, David, said the major general who conferred the duty, and if at all possible keep him out of trouble.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chris Cleave’s grandparents David and Mary Hill in Sicily in 1969.Randolph was an exceptional man but he had big shoes to fill and sometimes did so with drink. He was known to be outrageously brave, strolling through gunfire to deliver orders. On Malta, if the Axis did invade, he might cheerfully get himself killed or – much worse – captured. In that pivotal phase of the second world war, the prime minister’s son would have made a game-changing hostage. My grandfather had been issued with a Webley Mk IV revolver and a delightfully ambiguous order.Naturally, I wanted to know more about a man to whom you’d entrust such a job and about the enigmatic woman who loved him. As an adult, I only knew Mary in her decline. If time had seemed to linger around my grandfather’s youth, it circled like a carrion bird above my grandmother’s dotage. It bullied and baffled her so that now she was 80, and now eight again; now foolish and now wise; now trouncing the Times crossword and now sounding out simple words with phonics, using a finger to keep her place.Once when my brother Alex and I were bearded and in our 20s, we drove to visit Mary and she served us lunch: hers on willow pattern china with grown-up bone-handled cutlery, ours on plastic plates with Tommee Tippee cups for our milk. Later, as we were leaving, she stared for a long time at Alex and said, “I’m sure you’re one of mine.”All I knew of my grandmother’s youth was from family stories, but by now I’d discovered that those don’t tell half the tale. Like mantelpiece photos, the frame of a family story is mostly full of people when they are smiling. Just as I only half-knew my grandfather until I worked with him on his memoir, now I was eager to know who my grandmother had really been.I’m sure I’m not alone in finding that this family curiosity is magnified when one has children. You look at them and realise those eyes, that laugh, this specific tendency to hurl spaghetti at a sibling, must come from X or Y grandparent or great-grandparent.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David and Mary on their wedding day in 1944.The mystery of Mary, though, was that after her death she eluded all my attempts to rediscover her. She never wrote a memoir and of her wartime letters to my grandfather, my family has only a few. David kept many hundreds more, but close to the end of the war he and his trunkful of letters sailed home on separate vessels. His ship got through while the other was sunk by a U-boat – when I remarked what a pity it was, my mother simply said that on balance, she preferred things that way around.That was when I felt the cold shiver of chance. I felt myself and our children flicker and become translucent, felt my brother and six cousins and all their children flash on and off like the low winter sun through the trees to one side while you’re driving. All of us held our breath for a moment while the torpedo rushed closer, then hissed past us in the night to cut some other poor family off at the trunk.What my family does have is all the letters David wrote to Mary while he was besieged on Malta and she was teaching in and around London.For each letter sent or received, my grandmother recorded in an exercise book the date it had been posted and arrived. In a separate diary, she summarised the letter’s contents and a tantalising hint at her feelings. Just to see the care with which Mary curated the cherished letters is to understand how different was that generation’s relationship with pen and ink.Communication today has no smell and no rustle, no caress but that of the keyboard. True, we don’t have to wait for email to be delivered, but neither is it invariably worth waiting for. These days messaging is about constant, low-level reassurance (erring on the safe side, as school keeps reminding our kids, as one wouldn’t want one’s deepest feelings to end up splurged across the internet if the relationship soured).But in the long separation of the war, letters were infrequent but made up for it in intensity. One couldn’t have the loved one, but one could have the page their hands had held – bearing more between the lines than in them, and carrying perhaps a hint of their pipe smoke. Oh, and the letter was intimate, and private, and it arrived in an envelope just for you. And when you wrote a letter in those years, you wrote with no certainty that you’d be alive to write again tomorrow. Every word mattered, and so you exhausted your reservoir of emotion along with the ink.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Some of Mary and David’s letters and a telegram too.I didn’t understand my grandparents’ bond until I read this letter, sent from David to Mary in 1941. He’s just learned that his best friend, Geoffrey, has been killed in his Spitfire. “My sweet and precious Darling,” he writes. “I’ve just heard about Geoffrey and am rather stunned, especially as the news has come indirectly. Presumably the letter telling me about it is still in transit, so I don’t know what happened and don’t think I want to.”(The really awful thing, which David doesn’t know as he writes, is that Geoffrey wasn’t killed in battle but instead when something went wrong while he was doing a low-level pass over his family home, for a rare chance to wave hello.)“All I know,” writes David, “is that I have lost something in my life which only you can hope to replace. Nobody ever had a friend like him – we did everything together and I believe at times even thought together. I was afraid that when I fell in love with you and we got engaged, he would feel slighted, but he didn’t, and now there’s only you. Once we are together again, we must never be parted like this.”I was captivated and I read letter after letter – there are more than 1,000 of them. Some are light-hearted and playful, such as the one in which Mary draws a dress she’s planning to make.Often, for the sake of the censor or to spare Mary the worry, David’s letters don’t reveal the worst of his situation on Malta. There is an upbeat telegram, for example, which he sent after he had been extremely ill – he didn’t let on how ill until after he came home.Reading their letters, I discovered two very young people falling more and more in love. Their enforced separation made it a love without physicality, without security, without musicians or gin: without any of the things that might have made it easier. It was a love that had to survive time’s encirclement at the start and could therefore endure its bedevilment at the end. Far from being a vow before God, or a stoical habit, my grandparents’ love was a contract with each other, enshrined in 1,000 letters and requiring no higher power. Theirs was a love the like of which we haven’t seen since because the conditions for its formation have never been replicated.Everything I thought I knew about that wartime generation was absolutely wrong. They weren’t reserved, they were desperately alive. They weren’t stoical, they were passionate about the very few aspects of their lives in which they had a choice. They were so much more than the clipped accents and the flat affect with which we misrepresent them in a thousand war films. They were very scared of being killed, they were 20 years younger than the actors who portrayed them, they cried when they were exhausted and they sweated when they danced.More than anything else, that generation laughed. The thing they did most is the thing that all the cinematic and literary portrayals of them do least. My grandparents’ letters were often hilarious, which, of course, is the one way a letter can reduce to nothing the distance between two lovers: the laughter it produces is as real and unfiltered as if the writer and the reader were sitting side by side. Everything else – an enclosed photo, a promise of intimacy, a poem (God forbid) – is only a proxy for togetherness, whereas laughter is the thing itself.For the sake of their privacy, I have shown only a very little of my grandparents’ correspondence here, but I thought it important to show something in the hope that it might put readers in mind to dig out their own family letters, if they’re still around. If you do get the chance then you can hold them in your hands, as I did, and have the shiver of realising: this is where my family comes from, and almost didn’t.This is where we all came from, more or less. Because it was a global conflict, everyone you look at is the result of our recent ancestors somehow, against whatever odds, coming through the war intact. If you are reading this then you are very likely the glad result of two lovers, issued with pen and ink, writing themselves an almost impossible love story through the chaos of a total war.I typed up David’s memoirs for him, but I wrote a novel for Mary. I never did find out who she really was and so my heroine is not her. She is so different that I could safely call her Mary as a tribute to my grandmother, whereas Alistair, the novel’s hero, has overlap enough – however small – to require an unused name. It is inspired by my grandparents’ characters, not based on their story, but what I hope is true is the way love begins in the letters between my two separated fictional lovers, Mary and Alistair. I wanted those letters to be the bright centrepiece of the novel because it is so terribly brave, to dare to fall in love when the world is falling apart.• Chris Cleave’s new novel, Everyone Brave is Forgiven, is published by Sceptre on 21 April, £14.99. To order a copy for £11.99, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call the Guardian Bookshop on 0330 333 6846 Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.