There’s something hauntingly beautiful about a book set in a desert. I have to admit: Alwyn Hamilton’s Rebel of the Sands made me a little nervous. With so much acclaim even before its publication, I was worried that my expectations were too high, or that it might fall a little flat in the slew of fantasy books being published right now. Yet, I shouldn’t have worried. Even though I’ve read through a myriad of fantasy novels lately, Rebel of the Sands stands out as one my favourites. It has it all: the sassy characters, the beautiful relationships, the vivid setting, the riveting plot and, of course, threads of magic and lore woven throughout. In a single word? Captivating.  The novel follows a sharp-shooter named Amani, a blue-eyed girl who has been oppressed by her uncle, her town, her country. She wants nothing more to go to the city and create a life for herself, and when a foreigner offers her a chance, she takes it.  My favorite aspect of the book has to have been the characters. Amani’s struggle for the freedom to live her life in whatever way she pleased was a struggle that I could easily relate to. I found myself rooting for her from the beginning of the novel. She was also stubborn in the best way possible. Her sass levels were off the charts, and although it got her into some trouble, it added a fiery depth to her that I adored. Her conversations with the other character never failed to make me laugh.  Additionally, the world-building is exceptionally crafted. Although a tad overwhelming at times, the world was rich with history and culture and mythology to boot. The tension between the kingdoms, the creation of the rivalries… all of it felt authentic and so deeply fleshed out. And the setting of the novel in a desert? Absolutely perfect. There’s just something about desert stories I will always love, the idea that there is life and vitality even in the most barren of conditions, and that’s a concept Hamilton highlighted so well throughout the story.How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site?  In the end, I could go on and on about this book. With rich fantasy and magical elements, along with fantastic characters with so much heart and voice, Rebel of the Sands is not one to miss. Kindly escort yourself to a bookstore or library and pick up this novel ASAP.• Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!