In Bastards, her memoir of a life shaped by family dysfunction and the resourceful pursuit of resolution, Mary Anna King addresses the internal monologue she has honed over two decades of existential angst that revolves around her status as an adoptee. “I had always told myself that it was a kind of triple-win scenario – birth families relieve the pressure of a child they are unable to care for, adoptive families gain a much wanted child, a child gains a stable, loving family,” she writes. “But I was beginning to see there was a flipside. There can be no winners without losers. Once adoption was on the table everyone had already lost – lineage, origin, the visions of the future lives they thought they would live – and all our losses were attached to someone else’s gain in an endless, confusing loop.” It is amazing we all came back. The truth is that not all adopted people search… Sitting in the shade of a Los Angeles café, Mary is asked to ponder her own words. “It’s complicated,” she says and in doing so transports the notion of understatement to the outer limits of its commonly understood meaning. Complicated? Even Mary has to smile.She is second eldest of seven children born in the 80s to a New Jersey couple, a semi-religious and semi-present, bohemian father (she calls him “Michael” in the book) and a mother struggling with the legacy of her own fractured childhood and strained financial circumstances. Her early years were spent in an apartment building full of single mothers. “It operated like a commune of amputees, living with the lost limbs of former lovers. Resources were shared, the kids were subject to discipline of whichever mother happened to be nearest by at the time, rides or walks to school were shared and alternated… that sort of thing.”When her father did show up more pregnancies soon followed. The couple already had three kids – Mary, her older brother Jacob and younger sister Becca – and four more arrived. All four were adopted by different families on the East Coast, while Mary and Becca were adopted by their maternal grandfather and stepmother in Oklahoma. Mary was very young at the time of this dispersion, but was present at several stilted meetings between her own parents and couples hoping to adopt her yet-to-be-born sisters. “I never thought it was strange in the slightest. I just thought that’s what happened; what needed to happen. Looking around the apartment we lived in, there really wasn’t a place where a new baby would go,” she recalls. “When I got a little older, around six or seven, I was annoyed about remaining the baby in our family. I was ready to boss someone around. But, really, that was it for me.” It would be another 25 years before Mary was able to realise her dream of bossing her siblings around.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Family bonds: Mary Anna King with her sister Becca and the grandparents who adopted them. Photograph: Courtesy of Mary Anna KingThe Adoptee Memoir is a relatively recent literary creation. Misconceptions surrounding adoption – the most prevalent (and patently unfair) being that the birth parents were social misfits with responsibility issues and low moral standing and the children put up for adoption were somehow destined to go off the rails – silenced the people most directly involved in the process. The few voices that were heard were heartfelt, but not exactly revelatory, as typified by this anonymous contribution to a 1920 edition of the American Magazine: “The records do show that there are thousands of foster parents and thousands of adopted children who, like myself, declare that they have never known ‘any difference’, and who have lived happily ever after.” I am not angry at my parents. My mother had a lot of struggles in her life Whatever insight the wider public gained came from drier, more official sources, such as social workers and the lawyers who were peripherally involved in the adoption system. Secrecy surrounded the process, with birth parents and adoptees denied access to the documentation recording their separation. How could anyone reconstruct a life without the necessary biographical material? The vast majority couldn’t, a personal loss for them, of course, but a wider loss, too, in an era when western societies were breaking through all kinds of taboos, from class to race, from sexuality to the traditional notions of what a family should look like.Many within the thriving adoption “activist” community credit the American author Betty Jean Lifton with finally smashing through the barriers. Her 1975 book Twice Born: Memoirs of an Adopted Daughter tackled her own experiences of being adopted with a freedom and candour that had never been publicly expressed before. Where Lifton went, many have followed, charting the adoption experience and its modern social complexities. Mary Anna King does not claim to break new ground in Bastards, but her story says a lot about the strength of the biological and spiritual ties that bind a family together. Somewhere within herself she always suspected she and her siblings would get back together. It helped that her parents imposed a condition on the adoptions that the children be allowed to seek out their birth family once they had reached adulthood.The four other daughters who were separated – Lisa, Rebekah, Meghan and Lesley – started looking for their birth family as soon as they could. “It is amazing that they all came back, because the truth is that not all adopted people search,” Mary says. “What I have come to learn is that women tend to search more than men, and that this urge to search is spurred on when they start having their own children. Doctors start asking questions about family health history and people start to wonder. The discovery that the adoptee has siblings is another motive, especially among those like my sister Rebekah, who were brought up as only children.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   All dressed up: Mary in New Jersey in 1985. Photograph: Courtesy of Mary Anna KingGradually the family reassembled, giving Mary the chance to glimpse at least part of an alternative life to the one she had lived. Her brother Jacob had been in the army. Becca, with whom she had spent most of her childhood in Oklahoma, had drifted off into a netherworld of punk rock bands and dabbled in drugs. Lisa, the mother of two children and founder of a successful insurance billing company, ended up in Florida. Rebekah, the middle children of seven, lives in Philadelphia with her husband and, like Mary, is a writer.As for the final two pieces in the King family jigsaw – Meghan hadn’t ventured far from her place of birth in New Jersey, while Lesley, the youngest, had taken the opposite path. “She’s what you would call a free spirit, doing all sorts of things – nannying, farming, playing guitar – in all sorts of different places, from Hawaii to New Jersey,” says Mary, who lives in Los Angeles with her boyfriend and in typical Tinseltown fashion is trying to forge a path into the film and TV world after almost a decade in the restaurant business. This process of discovery has been one of her greatest joys: “We learned that Rebekah had never smoked a cigarette or tasted alcohol!”The reality of pulling the family back together was remarkably smooth, although not everyone involved was overjoyed. “I wasn’t anticipating the antagonism of some of my sisters’ adoptive parents. They had the attitude, ‘OK, now that you have met your birth family and had your questions answered you never have to meet them again’,” Mary says. That was never going to be the case. “I think we got very lucky in that we are all like stair steps in terms of age. The seven of us were all born within nine years so that makes us close. We are all part of the same generation, which gives us the same pop culture touchstones from our childhood. We also reunited in our late teens and early 20s, when we were all still malleable and in that college mindset mode of ‘Hello new friend, let’s be close, let’s stick together.’”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We all fell straight into a typical sibling dynamic’: (from left) Lesley, Rebekah, Mary, Meghan, Lisa and Becca with Jacob on the top bunk. Photograph: Polly BarrowmanThe shared – albeit separate – experience of being an adopted child helped the bonding process. So does a sense of humour which runs through all seven children like a gene and, of course, the shared parents. If Bastards has a heroine, it is the siblings’ mother (she is given the pseudonym Peggy in the book). “She is doing great these days and would have given anything she had to any one of us, even if it was detrimental to her,” says Mary. There is no competition with her siblings for their mother’s affection. “She gives freely and openly to all of us. The only rule we have is that none of us can ask for something she cannot give.”Scattered across the US, and rooted in their own worlds by economic circumstances and family responsibilities, the siblings kept in touch via social media. There were occasions when two or three or four of them found themselves in the same city. Mary is the eldest sister and is happy to claim the title of “showrunner”, but all seven were never physically in the same room until last year, when they came together in Los Angeles to mark the American publication of Bastards.“What was so funny about seeing everyone in the same room was that even though most of us hadn’t grown up together, we all fell straight into a very typical sibling dynamic. Little Rebekah, who falls in the middle of the family chronology and who had grown up as an only child, really is the middle child, saying: ‘Hey guys, I’m here. Don’t forget about me.’”The book began its life as a family project before the creative process gradually fell exclusively to Mary. She was happy to accept the responsibility, although she was at pains to protect the privacy and to some extent feelings of her family. The names of her birth parents have been changed, although she is as unsparing in admiration of her mother as she is cool about the father who to all intents and purposes abandoned his family. “I am not angry at all at my parents. I understand them both, my mother in particular, who had a lot of struggles in her life and who has come through them remarkably well.”The siblings all turned down Mary’s offer to protect their anonymity, insisting they wanted to help her promote a story they are all proud to be a part of. These days, the family is more geographically dispersed than ever, from New Jersey in the east to Hawaii in the west. Relationships are good, probably better than in most families it is safe to assume, in part because the years of separation serves as reminder of what it is they now have.So, is it happy ever after? Mary shakes her head. “I realised that wasn’t what this story was supposed to be. Sure, we all meet and get back together again, but it is still complicated. Like all families, it’s a negotiation. But…,” she says, searching for the words that will serve as the King family motto, until finally she speaks: “It feels like everything is going to be OK.”Bastards is published in paperback by W.W. Norton & Co. Ltd on 5 August. To order a copy for £9.99, go to bookshop.theguardian.com