It wasn’t the first time I had looked into the eyes of a gorilla, but it was the first time a gorilla had asked me to sit down so she could check out my nail varnish.Koko is a 44-year-old Western Lowland gorilla who communicates in sign language. I was in California to make a documentary about her life and, uniquely, Koko had to give final signoff for the film to go ahead. Despite the appalling state of my nails, she agreed.She is a rather unusual gorilla. According to Koko’s long-time caregiver, Penny Patterson, she uses more than 1,000 signs, can speak in sentences, tell jokes and talk in rhyme. She has a number of cats for pets, her own fundraising credit card (for the Gorilla Foundation, the nonprofit in charge of her care) and has met celebrities including Leonardo DiCaprio, Isabella Rossellini, Sting and Robin Williams. Not bad for a gorilla who started her life in captivity in San Francisco zoo in 1971. At six months old, Koko became ill and had to be separated from her mother. As she recovered, she was adopted by Patterson, then a Stanford University student. Patterson began to tutor Koko in sign language as part of her PhD dissertation. The project was supposed to last four years, but has ended up lasting 44. Patterson and Koko have a bond like that of mother and daughter. Their life together is a source of inspiration to some, but has also ignited intense controversy.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Koko the gorilla uses sign language while playing with kittens – videoI heard about Koko nine years ago and became fascinated. A “talking” gorilla seemed such a unique opportunity to understand the mind of one of our closest relatives. In the US, chimpanzees are still kept in laboratories for research, and lawyers are fighting court cases to grant these, and other apes, the status of legal person so they can be released into near-natural conditions. But enthusiasm for teaching apes sign language has waned. No new studies are starting, and the chimpanzees and orangutans taught American sign language in the 70s are nearing the end of their lives. Knowing Koko might not live much longer, it became my mission to make a film about her life.So, I ended up crouching on a balcony in a gorilla’s enclosure in Redwood City, near San Francisco, with documentary director Jonny Taylor. Koko asked each of us to display first our nails, then our teeth. Our nails were a disappointment, but our teeth made up for it. Koko is very interested in dental work and, coming from California, seldom encounters anything as basic as our UK fillings. She repeatedly asked us to open our mouths so she could confirm that we really did have mercury crammed into holes in our teeth.There is something eerie about meeting a gorilla raised as a human. One of Koko’s caregivers put the emotion perfectly into words: “I half expected her to jump up, unzip the gorilla suit, and laugh at me for being taken in.” When we left her the first time, Koko signed “good” and “visit”. But the real test was bringing in a camera to film her.Patterson says Koko can not only use 1,000 signs appropriately, but can string words together – for instance, “Bring me cat” – invent her own words (such as “finger bracelet” for “ring”), talk about the past and future, and express grief when her pets die. Yet Patterson’s claims go way beyond any other language-trained ape, and have been challenged by other scientists, who point out that she has produced few peer-reviewed articles to corroborate Koko’s skills.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Koko with Penny Patterson. Photograph: BBC/Ron Cohn It is, of course, hard to do controlled experiments with apes. Like children, they can easily become bored and uncooperative and, if they give an incorrect answer, it is hard to know whether they don’t know the correct one, or whether they are not motivated to give it. But without scientific proof, Patterson is vulnerable to accusations that she is distorting Koko’s abilities. Some scientists believe that any apparent attempt at full communication by animals is wishful thinking on humans’ part. Professor Herb Terrace – who taught his own chimpanzee, Nim, 125 signs – came to this conclusion after years of research. It seemed unlikely we were going to resolve this impasse. Instead, our film is the story of a science experiment turned love affair. Patterson’s partner, Ron Cohn, has a vast archive of footage – part scientific record, part home movie – to which we were granted access. It shows the intense relationship between Patterson and her adopted gorilla daughter, and how she fought to keep Koko in the face of the zoo’s demands to return her. It covers the years of academic criticism, the endless money she has raised to keep Koko and her companion Ndume (it costs hundreds of thousands of dollars every year, donated by the public, to pay for staff, food and the enclosure). She has also campaigned tirelessly for her last, so far failed, mission: to get Koko a baby. Patterson hoped Koko would mate with her former companion Michael, but apparently Koko told her that Michael was like a brother and mating would be “embarrassing”. Koko and Ndume have not mated yet either.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Koko and her kitten, All Ball. Photograph: BBC/Ron CohnGetting access to a 300-pound gorilla in a Portakabin sounded easy, but Koko’s schedule was packed. When we arrived, her 44th birthday party was being planned. After the party, Koko was tired. The next day she was having her nails trimmed, the next she was being visited by kittens. In the end, Koko herself intervened. Before we began filming, Penny told me Koko was very attracted to men with British accents. One day, when we were filming in the compound, Koko spotted Taylor and signed that she would like a visit from him. With trepidation, Taylor ventured in. Koko was delighted to meet him, perhaps a little too delighted. She was far more interested in getting his shirt off than being filmed. Patterson stipulated the best footage could be obtained by someone Koko found attractive but not “too attractive”. Taylor fell resoundingly into the second camp. He did get some amazing shots of her breathing down the camera, though. Getting time with Patterson was even harder. She goes into Koko’s enclosure most days and stays with her until she goes to sleep at 10pm. Then she prepares Koko’s meals and drives the 20 minutes back home in the early hours of the morning. She takes no holidays, and has little time to relax. Few people approaching 70 would cope with this constant fug of sleep deprivation.Patterson agreed to do her final interview the day we were due to fly home. Her house is like a shrine to Koko: there is a live camera feed watching her 24 hours a day, and every surface is covered with dust and Koko memorabilia – pictures, presents, files. A large, mournful dog named Ricky had his own sign-language sheet on the door of the fridge. She was cooking dinner for Ricky, and a basket of kittens were meowing for attention. As long as any animal in the room had unfulfilled needs, Patterson would not focus on us. Finally, Ricky’s dinner was put in his bowl and I locked myself in the bathroom with the kittens, who drifted off to sleep.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Patterson’s house is house is like a shrine to Koko.’ Photograph: BBC/Ron CohnPerhaps Patterson knew it was the only way to get rid of us, or perhaps it was her own need to convey the frustrations of the last four decades, but as Ricky slurped his food and the kittens slept, she finally opened up to Taylor about her fulfilment of being with Koko, as well as her regrets, fears, lost hopes and guilt at not being able to provide her a baby. I listened through the bathroom door to the most moving interview of my career. We caught our plane. As I flew back sleepless through the Atlantic night, what struck me were the consequences of Patterson’s decision to keep Koko 40 years ago. Her life has been devoted to nothing else. And the consequences for Koko herself will always be unclear. Does Koko know she is not human? Does it bother her? It’s a haunting, captivating story of the unique relationship between a gorilla and her human mother. Despite the controversy, Koko’s story has doubtless inspired many people to see apes as worthy of rights. In an extraordinary life, that will probably be her greatest achievement.Koko: The Gorilla Who Talks to People is on BBC1 at 8.30pm on Wednesday 15 June. 