Discussing pornography with your teenagers rates pretty highly when it comes to parental challenges, but it was a chat I always meant to have … sometime. When my children were very young I aimed to keep it simple and age-appropriate, which seemed to work well. Having been brought up in a strict church that presented sex as overwhelming, dangerous and just sort of wrong unless for procreation, I was determined that my children should have a different view and not coloured extensively by guilt.It was so easy to start with, with the biggest challenge not giggling when the children were unintentionally funny. At age three, not long after a “where do babies come from?” discussion, our eldest transfixed everyone at the giraffe enclosure at Edinburgh zoo by asking in a loud voice, “Do you know how I know that giraffe’s a girl?”We weren’t the only parents to stare in horrified expectation, only to sigh with relief as she said, “Because she has really long eyelashes.”I have gay friends still traumatised in adulthood by their parents passing thoughtless remarks about homosexuality when they were young, so that was another issue to deal with. The question, “Is it always boys who marry girls?” was answered with, “Sometimes boys marry boys and girls marry girls”, so that if any of our four children were gay their earliest memories would be of parents thinking that was the most natural thing in the world. Really, I had this sex ed thing sussed.Things got a little trickier as we headed into puberty, which is probably the norm. Embarrassment kicks in as the seven year old “Oh yuck, did you and Daddy do that?!” changes into the 11 year old, head in hands, trying to forget that their ancient, crumbly parents might possibly still “do it”. Sex education in school is a good starting point, especially if it’s being delivered by any teacher seen as at all awkward as that makes it an excellent starting point for a family jeering session. Scoffing at some hapless soul demonstrating how to put a condom on a banana might seem cruel, but if it gets them talking, then you have a way in that also nurtures solidarity. You want to keep them talking to you but getting the balance right between advice and interference is hard It’s tempting to leave sex education to schools, especially if your children squirm with embarrassment every time you broach the subject, but if you separate it into the practicalities and the passion – and take responsibility for discussing the passion – parents can add a great deal to the simple facts of life. Schools will talk sexually transmitted infections, pregnancy, contraception and respect for yourself and others and while it’s often easier to consider that’s the whole subject covered, every family has its own approach. Teenagers enjoy shock value, often disguised as a story – probably close to the truth – about what their friends are getting up to and it was at that point I realised that being cool, calm and collected about sex was vital.We were stunned to discover that the shameful traditions still held good – boys who sleep around are studs, girls who do likewise are sluts – and this is a surprisingly difficult one to address. Logic says you should point out that both sexes should be treated equally, but does that also mean that you are advocating multiple partners to a 14 year old? You also want to keep them talking, or at least feel that they can come to you about worries, but getting the balance right between advice and interference is hard.If we’re helping to keep our children safe, instilling confidence and ensuring they respect their own rights and others, then we also have to discuss emotion. Sometimes there’s so much emphasis on the practicalities that feelings get lost in the discussion and it’s almost more embarrassing to admit that sex with love involved is equally mind-blowing and if that’s what you’re holding out for, then on you go.All of a sudden, sex education wasn’t so simple after all, so I went in search of the experts and discovered I wasn’t getting it all right. First, giving teenagers permission not to have sex is equally vital, as there can be intense peer pressure and it’s hard for them to admit to friends that they are simply not ready. In some circles having sex is treated in the same way as learning to drive or to drink legally, so it’s simply another box to be ticked, which can be very damaging. Some parents might welcome their teenager telling them they are considering having sex and others prefer not to know, but, irrespectively, some groundwork in the early teens can help them decide what’s right for them and feel supported in that decision.I was also told firmly that around 13, whether you can bear it or not, is a good time for The Talk, which should include such minefields as pornography. I pretended not to hear that but was happy to talk about the decision to have sex, especially in practical terms. Simply, the advice was that if your teenager feels ready, then you suggest they also have a talk with their prospective partner. If they are mature enough to be considering sex, then obviously they are mature enough to discuss safety and contraception, and what they would do should they be unlucky enough for these to fail. Most teenagers will never imagine that unplanned pregnancy or an STI could happen to them.Don’t get emotional but do ask what they and their partner plan to do in those circumstances; it’s tempting to use scare tactics if you feel they are too young or immature for sex but while facing possible realities might stop some in their tracks, sticking to the practicalities should encourage them to be as sensible as possible. Don’t keep throwing advice or questions at them once you have had that discussion; there are certain areas of your life you want to keep private and they deserve similar respect, though making it clear you are always there for any concerns is obviously helpful.I relaxed again, despite the expert advice. I convinced myself that parental controls on the wifi meant that pornography wasn’t an issue I needed to address, until an ashen friend turned up on my doorstep. She had gone to pick up her nine-year-old son from his friend’s house, only to find the two of them transfixed over an iPad, watching the most graphic porn imaginable.The next day, a weekend paper published a huge section on the negative impact of pornography on children and teenagers and I capitulated, pinning down my youngest daughter and son, then 14 and 16, and starting the chat in cowardly fashion by saying, “Dad wants me to talk to you about this.” Groans all round, followed by attempts to escape, but having finally got the courage to start, there was no stopping me.I assumed they had already seen pornography, which cut out a lot of waffling, and stuck with the approach that I didn’t want them to think it portrayed real sex, rather than moralising. The chat started very slowly, but flowed more easily when their elder sisters – 18 and 21 – joined in, stating without embarrassment, “This is not real sex and don’t ever forget that!”It was undoubtedly embarrassing, but far more for me than for them because it underlined more than anything that I was around seven years late in bringing up the subject.