Britain's farmers have suffered the wettest April to June in most of their lifetimes – but the key problem for thousands has not been the effect of the weather on their crops, but on the appetites of consumers. The market is awash with summer fruits and salad that have been left unwanted on supermarket shelves."There is no problem of availability of salads, despite the wet conditions because our growers are prepared for that," said James Hallett, chief executive of the British Growers' Association. "The problem has been a lack of demand –people have not been wanting to eat salads. It hasn't been the summer for it, so far."The jubilee street parties and Wimbledon have not been enough to tempt people out to their barbecues, pub gardens and traditional summer fare, as pouring rain and shivering temperatures have blighted outdoor plans."We can get the produce to the shelves, but people are not buying it," said Hallett. "This has been the real issue, and it's made it very difficult for producers. We don't know how it's going to work out."Jonathan Lukies, a fruit grower and arable farmer near Stansted airport, reported similar problems: "We've had to throw away half of our fruit – mainly strawberries and raspberries – that have come ripe. The market is awash with fruit, and prices are very poor, because the weather is not conducive to people wanting a barbecue or summer fruits – it's been umbrella weather, instead."He has had to hire workers just to clear away the unsuitable fruit – such as berries that have split owing to too much moisture, to prevent them succumbing to disease and infecting the rest of the crop – as his fields have been deluged by three times the normal rainfall for the last few months. Most of these berries can only be thrown away. Some of the remainder are being made into jam and ice cream, but this represents much lower value than selling fresh fruit. "This is the worst weather in a generation – I've never seen anything like it. It's the worst year for soft fruit ever, it's been horrific," said Lukies.Many of the UK's salad and summer crops –such as tomatoes and cucumbers – are grown in greenhouses or under polytunnels, protecting them from the worst of the unseasonal weather. But even while some green crops grown in the fields, such as lettuces, have been progressing well despite a lack of sunshine, many will end up wasted without a market, said Hallett. Guy Watson, the founder of Riverford, one of the UK's best known 'veg box' schemes, said: "It's unquestionably the worst year in my 25 years of growing. So far we have harvested less than 25% of our budgeted crop. It's a struggle to get on wet ground to harvest, weed and plants. July is the busiest month for planting so if it does not dry up in the next three weeks winter cropping will also be drastically affected."He continued: "It's very grim. I would expect this to put quite a number of growers out of business. Our suppliers are expressing moer interest in protected cropping under polytunnels."Jill Vaughan and her husband run Delfland Nurseries in March, Cambridgeshire, growing a variety of crops, including tomatoes, brassicas and leeks, for sale to gardeners. While their glasshouses had protected their plants from the weather changes, Vaughan said the heavy rainfall in the last quarter had brought about another problem for their customers."The slugs have been a problem especially for the gardeners because of the sheer wetness, which means they can seed anywhere," she said.The wet weather had provided the perfect conditions for slugs to thrive in, and this year gardeners in the UK had been affected by an invasion of Spanish stealth slugs, which have hybridised with native British slugs, proving to be a particularly vicious pest.The National Farmers' Union said it was too early in the season to predict how much the yields of crops such as wheat and barley would be affected by the weather. However, those crops are heavily dependent on a dry spell for the harvest – not just to ripen the crops, but to put machinery such as combine harvesters in the fields.In normal years, even the British summer could be relied on to produce enough sunny days to ripen the crops and make it possible to take them into barns. In poor years, farmers can even outsmart nature by drying crops mechanically, though at a high cost energy-wise. This year, however, even that may not be feasible if the crops fail to grow or are subject to moulds and other diseases while still in the field.The result could be higher food prices for consumers, as well as a disastrous year for farmers.Lukies said he hoped for better weather in coming years: "I'm not convinced that this is [human-induced] climate change – the weather varies naturally. But if it keeps getting worse, I will have to be convinced."