Public Enemy’s Chuck D has never pulled his punches. Since the group’s debut album Yo! Bum Rush The Show was released 30 years ago, the group has addressed social injustice and written songs that have provided the soundtrack to protest and resistance around the world.He’s stayed active for the better part of three decades and built a career on telling truths, often loudly. Not just in his music, but his writings, speeches and university lecture series. Ahead of a tour with his new group Prophets of Rage – which includes members of Cypress Hill and Rage Against The Machine – the Guardian spoke with Chuck on current matters of the state, his frustrations, Barack Obama and the current political landscape.Why do you think songs like Fight the Power or 911’s A Joke still resonate?When I said “fight the power” my influences are about the we, not the me. So people say that stuff I’ve said is still relevant today and I’m glad. But I say it’s still around and will always be around because I didn’t make it up. I was able to write a song that gave narrative to things, but I didn’t invent the sentiment or own the slogan.How do you explain the rise of Donald Trump?It’s not so much him or even the audacity of Trump – he’s just a businessman. And as a businessman, he will fight democracy and government, not fight for it. I think after he wins, he’ll sit and enjoy feeling his power for a while and being the businessman that he is, he’ll just go for bigger deals internationally that’ll serve him. I believe his intent is to take over the military. He’ll also work for the prison industrial complex and all its materialistic power structures will thrive with little opposition.As The Counted showed police encounters with communities of colour are much more likely to end in violence. Why do you think that is?I think – and this is the first time I’ve really talked about this – is that policing in the US has been so bad because of state laws. These states have the nerve to make it all about them and no one can tell them what to do. So there’s a huge detachment with these states acting and functioning as a state within other states. The other thing that makes policing so lopsided is that counties have their own policing and jurisdiction and they’re not compliant or united. They’re ran on ego and their own sort of fiefdom. And states are made of many, many counties. Say you’re driving across county lines, each and every county has different systems in place as to how they’re gonna deal with you. Policing is evidently not working in the 21st century United States. What are your thoughts on Black Lives Matter?It’s a defensive movement. It’s just saying, “Hey, you need to treat us like people and that we’re not going to tolerate being slaughtered like pigs or sheep.” The whole thing that thinking that BLM is an offensive movement is wrong. All lives matter, true, but if we don’t treat all lives equally then no lives matter.What do you think President Obama’s legacy will be?When you say “how he’ll be remembered”, the media will be making that judgment call. So the question really is, what is media? Will it be a small group of guys controlling Obama’s narrative? I think Obama is the best we ever had, best that ever did it, but worse is on the horizon. I’m hoping it’s just worse on the horizon, not the worst. Worst being Trump.How will you personally remember President Obama?Besides my inner most beliefs on what government does, I truly believe he battled with the government. As a black man in the United States with its history, I expect nothing from the government [laughs]. But Obama’s also had to endure such and onslaught of direct hatred from the system. He’s also been so ostracized. I remember eight years of George Bush when everyone was scrambling. I just think Obama really tried to do the right thing.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Prophets Of Rage perform live. Photograph: Kevin Winter/Getty Images As a black man in the United States with its history, I expect nothing from the government How did he strike you eight years ago when he was first elected?I always thought Obama would’ve been the perfect running mate for Hillary back in 2008 because I thought she was going to win. I didn’t think America was ready for a black president then. And I’m right – it’s eight years later and people still aren’t ready for a black president [laughs]. But that was the first time my daughter was of voting age. So myself, my daughter and my father all voted together. All three generations went to the polls together and voted for a black president. It was a pretty significant moment for us.What’d you think of Bernie Sanders and his campaign?Bernie said things that people wanted to hear. I thought what Bernie did with one of my peers, Killer Mike, was also amazing. All the awareness and everything Bernie did was great. But my main disappointment is that this Coke and Pepsi ran country has made elections this eenie-meenie-miney-mo sort of thing. It’s a game of mathematics and having to choose the lesser of two. I’ve always wondered why the vice0-president doesn’t have more power, like some real actual power. Why did Hillary choose [Tim] Kaine and not make Bernie her running mate? Well the answer is because Hilary is backed by wealthy investors. So, even as we speak now and even with Bernie’s efforts, we’re right back at square one. Killer Mike endorses Bernie Sanders for president What do you think the single biggest obstacle for the next president will be? Getting attention. Attention is currency and you have to pay attention to details. And I think millennials have all been fragmented due to their devices. These kids are more connected to each other than ever before – that’s actually a good thing, I think. But the negative is that they don’t get the humanity and real feelings when you touch another human being or sit face-to-face with someone. The gadget is just the intermediary but it will become your guide if you’re not careful. And then, if you’re really not careful, your guide ends up becoming your god.Even though this is certainly a youth-oriented culture, it hasn’t just impacted kids. Seems like it’s a lot of people.Absolutely. I’ve never seen so many 40-year-old teenagers in my life [laughs]. You can be youthful and full of youth, but don’t be a fool for youth; this society tries to make you hang onto your youth by any means necessary. But in doing so you forgo responsibilities and accountabilities of what makes you an elder. There’s no narrative for US citizens to understand the quality of ageing gracefully. Look at all these politicians – they’re all trying to get their young on and it all feels like high school shit. This Republican convention was a straight-up high school prep rally. And the Democratic convention was just showtime. What does that show a 16-year-old? How do they take it? All you have is this glamour and glitz fake show from the left, and on the right it’s a hate rally.Chuck D tour with Prophets of Rage starts 19 August at EagleBank Arena in Fairfax, Virginia