Back when I was a university undergraduate in Ye Olde England, my dorm room had an Ikea lamp, lots of pretentious books and a pretentious vintage rock band poster. There was also a mushroom growing from my ceiling (not on purpose). This was pretty standard and my peers had variations of the same.Fast forward to present-day America and things have changed. I present as Exhibit A, Lindy Goodson and Abby Bozeman, freshman roommates at Ole Miss. A picture of Goodson and Bozeman’s dorm room recently went viral because, unlike dorm rooms of yore, their room is really, really nice. Like Shangri-La nice. Things match. The word plush comes to mind. See below:Amazing, right? But not actually that unusual. Goodson and Bozeman aren’t outliers; they’re representative of a more design-savvy, Instagram-image-conscious generation. Figures from the National Retail Federation show that spending on dorm room decor has gone up over the last several years and some students are even using interior design firms to decorate their rooms.Before we start tutting about “it wasn’t like this for my generation”, a few words about the current generation. The current intake of freshmen are around 18 or 19, which means they’re at the youngest end of the millennial generation and the oldest end of Gen Z – or as I like to call them, Zillennials.Zillenials have different expectations of the college experience than previous generations. They’ve been taught that college can be a premium experience, and both private companies and colleges are lining up to serve it to them. Colleges, in general, have gone from stark study centers to country-club like experiences. MIT has a ball pit; Boston University has a climbing wall; Rutgers University’s $55m Rockoff dorm features a Coldstone Creamery and a state-of-the-art gym.Developers have also started investing billions in off-campus dorms. A recent Bloomberg analysis of 94 student housing complexes across the US found that 80% had access to a swimming pool, 55% lived in properties with on-site tanning salons, while 45% have beach volleyball courts. Just 38% offered dedicated study rooms.Dorm decor, it seems, has become a competitive sport in educational institutions across the country. And while Goodson and Bozeman may be the current reigning queens, plenty of other people are taking part. There are 68,296 #dormroom photos on Instagram, and scrolling through them reveals a few things about the new generation of college kids’ things. Here’s what I learned. Typography & ampersandsI don’t know what the Helvetica is going on but typography is very hot right now and dorm rooms seem to have become a fount of fonts. What’s more, empirical Instagram evidence suggests that the ampersand is having a moment. Inspirational phrasesMost of the time these don’t even appear to be ironic. Rather they say things like “You’re not a pigeon you’re a unicorn” in elaborate typography. You may think inspirational phrases are trite but keep calm and you can carry them off.All matching everythingThanks to social media, dorm mates are connecting and coordinating before they even meet. Students are willingly choosing to forsake their individuality in the name of symmetry and the results are amazing.Pillows are the new postersYou can never be too rich or too thin or have too many pillows, apparently. Pillows have proliferated at an alarming rate in recent years. What’s more, many of them combine the above trends: they match and have a motivational phrase on them.We’ll always have parisFrench may be the language of love but it’s also the eternal language of trying to sound sophisticated. While previous generations may have put up a framed vintage French film poster, today’s kids have a pillow with C’est La Vie on it or “Paris” plastered over their bedding or a wall decal of the Eiffel Tower. The takeout from this? While today’s kids have graduated from dog-eared posters and Ikea lamps, they’re still desperately trying to impress each other. Plus ça change.