Activists have held a demonstration outside Hermès’ flagship store in central London to protest against the fashion brand’s use of ostrich leather to make handbags.Jackie Joyce, 29, led the protest, during which she stood topless with a mock dead ostrich draped across her chest. She was joined by fellow activists Anna Buraya and Charly Keats holding handbag-shaped placards reading “Hermès: Bin ostrich skin”.The protest comes after Peta US published an exposé of the industrial slaughter of ostriches. Undercover video recordings show young ostriches being yanked upside down in a stunner before their throats are cut, as others watch and wait.Ostrich skin is used to create the “goose bump” fabric used in Hermès and Prada bags and other luxury goods.Joyce said: “It’s just awful how sad the lives of the ostriches are and how terrible they are treated. “They can live up to the age of 40 and they are killed at one year old. They are really intelligent birds and they are really social, forming complex societies among themselves. “It’s just disgusting that people want to use their skin to make a handbag. Why do you want to walk around with this bag when you can get really good fake leather everywhere.”Damien Gayle (@damiengayle)Hermes gets the @PETAUK treatment over ostrich skin handbags pic.twitter.com/7wImGFvpt9March 31, 2016Sarah Ames-Bryah, 31, from London, who walked past the protest said she was conflicted over the issue, but abhorred cruelty.“I buy leather so it’s difficult to feel valid in an argument against the use of certain leathers. As long as the process is acceptable then you can argue that it’s acceptable,” she said. “In the case of an ostrich, I’m not convinced that ostrich meat is a byproduct of the leather that they use to make handbags.” Christopher Driscoll, 47, from Liverpool, stopped for a moment to see what was happening outside the shop. He said the protest was “nice to see” but did not necessarily agree with the issues the activists were raising. “I lived in South Africa,” he said. “Down there you eat ostrich as part of the diet. They use the meat so why not use the skin?”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest ‘Bin ostrich skin’: Peta protest outside Hermès shopBut American tourist Rochelle Leibsohn was certain in her view of Hermès and its practices, once she was told what they were. She said: “It’s terrible, it’s horrible. Thanks for letting me know. I won’t buy one.”Kirsty Henderson, Peta UK campaigns coordinator, said Peta US’s investigation into ostrich farming, in which activists infiltrated several South African farms, including the one that supplies Hermès, was the first of its kind.“When you see the cruelty involved in these farms it truly is shocking, that’s why we are asking Hermès to stop selling the skin of these ostriches,” she said.In a statement, Hermès said: “Contrary to what the video broadcast by [Peta] suggests, the farms shown in the videos do not belong to Hermès. Hermès operates at a secondary level within this industry. The small quantities of ostrich leather used by Hermès do not come from farms but tanneries which, as per all Hermès suppliers, are subject to permanent and stringent controls. “Ostrich farming’s first vocation is the production of meat for food and feather production; both industries combined represent a bigger share than the production of leather.”It added: “Hermès is always active and vigilant when it comes to corporate social responsibility. It carries out systematic checks on its suppliers and makes sure they strictly comply with local and international policies, and always strives to adhere to best practices in order to improve these policies. “Hermès deplores the relentless attacks by Peta aiming to harm its reputation through a dishonest representation of the facts and a complete ignorance of the deep ethical commitment of Hermès to the fight against animal cruelty, as well as any other welfare concerns.” Elisa Allen, Peta’s associate director, said anyone buying Ostrich-skin bags that have come from such a source “is responsible for the shocking slaughtering, plucking and skinning of a smart, sensitive and curious young ostrich. “With so many high-end and stylish cruelty-free accessories available, Peta is calling on shoppers to bag the animal skins and shop vegan.” 