In the evening sun shadows from bosky hedge banks encroach on the various greens of pasture and arable fields surrounding Kit Hill. Across the expanse of undulating land, between the skylines of Bodmin Moor and Dartmoor, pale fields have been shorn of grass. This first cut of silage was left to wilt then baled and carted off for wrapping in black plastic for winter fodder – all in two or three days. Cereal fields are verdant apart from maize planted under sheets of plastic, where shoots emerge through the shiny film which covers the earth. Shadowy valleys cut through the landscape; old mine stacks poke up from the summer crowns of trees and, to the south, the Tamar estuary is a blue lake before the haze of open sea.The hill catches light from the setting sun, which shimmers through the flowers of sweet vernal. A few ponies and their foals graze off bramble shoots, gorse bushes, rough vegetation with sorrel, tormentil and bedstraw – part of a scheme to enhance heathland around the prospecting pits, adits and disused mine buildings of this designated country park. In the low light, red campions are luminous on a wall around a mine shaft, and bluebells among the granite boulders become indistinct pools of mist. Below, in the shade of beech trees, Kelly Bray was the terminus of a railway line from Plymouth and London. The line was built to carry ores and stone towards the river at Calstock, but once it was linked by the viaduct to the upcountry line it was used for agricultural produce and passengers. Further around the hill, sheltered from the prevailing wind, dumps of quarried granite blend with thickets of may, rowan, willow and oak scrub where ferns thrive in the undergrowth. There is no sound of the cuckoo reported to be here but, beneath the quarry beside the course of the old incline tramway, a group of people sit around a campfire to shout and chant. Meanwhile the red sun sinks behind Brown Willy on Bodmin Moor and the song of willow warblers continues to drift uphill.