How are you spending Valentine’s night? Up the Shard? Down the pub? On a mini-break? This year, with the Baftas happening, I shall be spending it in the office with four frayed colleagues and a magnum of coffee. I will also, of course, if you squint optimistically and think four-dimensionally, be in the company of many of Hollywood’s most desirable stars. Hanks! Blanchett! DiCaprio! Winslet!How to crash the Oscars’ swag bag and get your goodies into celebs’ hands | Arwa Mahdawi But of course there is really only one person I will be spending Sunday night with: Stephen Fry. For it is absolutely, categorically the host of an award show who is the key figure, the defining presence, the real star. Forget the winner. Forget the person who trips or weeps or dedicates it to diversity. It’s all about the frontman.Remember the Oscars a couple of years ago? Surprisingly tough, isn’t it. OK: remember how Ellen Degeneres ordered pizza and took a selfie? There you go! Now: remember any moment from the Golden Globes over the past decade that wasn’t Jodie Foster coming out? No? What about Tina Fey and Amy Poehler calling Gravity “the story of how George Clooney would rather float away into space and die than spend one more minute with a woman his own age”? Bingo! Now you have it.Parties are about invisible hosting; schmoozing around the room with an open bottle; awards are about publicly cackling at your guests, then pushing them out of the door with a slap: off-message is the new obsequious, something Fry doesn’t seem to have appreciated. How far you can push the envelope is the new competition.Both are most easily realised when the ceremony isn’t televised. The host can cock more of a snook; the organisers aren’t so concerned about walkouts or Tommy Lee Jones-style hatchet-face. Such liberty was demonstrated last Sunday night when Simon Amstell triumphed at the Evening Standard Film Awards by being – if not rude, exactly – then brilliantly withering. “Remember,” he advised his guests at the start, “if you do win tonight, it will feel great, but it will never heal your childhood wound. There will be a short-term high followed a few years later by panic that you will never win anything again. Because you’re a fake. And if you don’t win tonight, don’t be too upset. Win or lose, in the end, we all die. You win an award; you die. You buy a boat; you die. You’re having a baby; you’re both dying. So let’s get on with the show.”Funny Valentine’s all roundMonday sickies are traditional when Valentine’s falls on a Sunday. People need to sleep in, to recover from the romance and the happiness, the screaming rows and crushed dreams. They require time to sleep off the exhaustion, to pack their bags and consult the divorce lawyers. Employers will therefore be blanching at the news that this year Morrisons has a special Valentine’s offer on oysters – 25p a pop. Their rationale is that price is the reason most frequently cited for never having tried them. But everyone knows this is a lie. Tesco has long sold them for 50p, less than a Twix. The real reason, of course, is the mortal fear of food poisoning. Are people truly too frightened to just fess up? Are we happier to blame thriftiness over the desire not to be sick? If so, come Sunday, all round the country oyster virgins will be merrily necking a dozen on the in-for-a-penny principle. Monday 15 February just got a whole heap messier.Raising the Barchester I am saving up seeing the BBC’s must-see War and Peace serial for 2050, as a retirement treat. In the meantime, I’ve gone back 34 years and caught up on The Barchester Chronicles, their must-see series from 1982. Hot off the presses: it’s terrific. Nigel Hawthorne and Donald Pleasance and Alan Rickman and Geraldine McEwan, none of them dialling it down. Long scenes about liturgy. Abrupt time leaps between episodes so shocking you think you’ve missed a disk. Who needs nudity when you have Hawthorne hissing in a cassock?