Through the coldest days of winter, Sian Edwards’ office has been her car on a Welsh mountainside. The mobile phone coverage in her Carmarthenshire village has been so unreliable she has had to drive through the forests to use her work phone. “The only network we have is Vodafone whose service has been steadily worse,” says the charity case worker.“For the past few months we’ve been without a signal for several hours most days. We’ve repeatedly contacted Vodafone, but the only reply we get is that there is a network problem.”Vodafone brought to task as The Observer prompts Ofcom investigation Meanwhile, the villagers have been paying for their non-existent service and, though the signal has now revived, there has been no mention of a rebate for the period they were unable to use their phones. “I asked Vodafone not to take payment for the month we were without service, but they did anyway,” says fellow resident Kate Luder.The village’s plight highlights a loophole in consumer protection law which telecoms regulator Ofcom last week finally promised to address. Customers of utility companies are entitled to statutory compensation when things go wrong. However, there is currently no regulatory requirement for mobile phone providers to stump up if they can’t provide the service customers have paid for, or to release them from their contract without penalty. Until now, Ofcom has said it merely “expects providers to deal fairly and sympathetically with customers who experience a lack of service due to mobile network issues”.Each mobile phone company decides what, if any, compensation it will offer if it can’t provide a service, and most make it as difficult as possible for customers to claim. BT pays out after three consecutive days of signal blackout; Virgin customers need only suffer service loss for 24 hours before being entitled to compensation; O2, Three and Tesco consider each case individually.Vodafone only considers compensation after 72 hours without service. This means that Edwards, Luder and the other villagers of Brechfa are entitled to a rebate for the week they were without any signal, but not for months of intermittent coverage.“We know this is frustrating and we are sorry they have been inconvenienced, but the nature of mobile communications means that we cannot guarantee the signal at all times,” says a Vodafone spokesman. “In Brechfa the signal was affected by the weather and then by transmission faults over the past two or three months. We are working with the third-party supplier to establish the cause of these.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kate Luder’s village went a week without any signal, and had months of intermittent coverageIn a once-in-a-decade review of the telecoms market published last week, Ofcom pledged to consult on introducing automatic compensation for customers who receive poor service. The aim is to bring telecoms companies into line with the utilities industry so that if service falls below a certain standard for a particular length of time, providers will be obliged to pay out.“We don’t think it’s right that phone and broadband customers who receive poor service should have to pursue their complaint to receive a payment,” says a spokesman. “They should automatically receive a cheque in the post or a credit on their bill when things go wrong.”The mystery is why it has taken Ofcom so long to realise this. And afflicted mobile customers such as those in Brechfa should not expect automatic cheques any time soon. The review was merely a consultation exercise and it will be several months before Ofcom gets as far as producing proposals, let alone binding decisions.As Luder has found, claiming what restricted compensation is currently promised in a company’s terms and conditions is a battle. Ombudsman Services, which mediates on behalf of dissatisfied customers, says that 27% of the mobile phone complaints it receives concern network problems, and it upholds the majority of them. “Each company has its own way of dealing with complaints and when we investigate we start with the premise that no mobile provider can guarantee 100% network coverage,” says a spokesman. “There are occasions when we would consider requiring rebates on service charges paid, but this would depend on the length and impact of the disruption.” I asked Vodafone not to take payment for the month we were without service, but they did anywayKate Luder, Vodafone customer Network providers are not even required to provide the service customers sign up to, as Sarah Christou of Saffron Walden, Essex, found when she renewed her Vodafone contract. “The sales rep and I talked about the kind of phone I’d like and how much internet I would be using and worked out the best contract for my needs,” she said.“What he didn’t mention is that Vodafone has no 3G coverage in Saffron Walden. I’ve had no reception at all in most of the town centre and no 3G internet service anywhere. No other industry can charge for a service they know they can’t deliver. By May, when my contract finally ends, I will have paid for two years of 3G I didn’t receive because Vodafone will not release me from my contract without an early termination fee.”Vodafone said it is up to customers to work out if they can make use of the service it sells them. “We are not in a position to advise individual customers about pockets where there is no 3G coverage, though we would, of course, check this for them if they asked about a specific postcode,” says a spokesman.Ofcom opens a road to faster broadband It admits that Saffron Walden does not have 3G, but claims Christou is not entitled to leave her contract early because the ombudsman ruled in its favour. But there was no such ruling from the ombudsman, and when The Observer pointed this out the companyhurriedly backtracked and declared it will waive the termination fee.Christou remains baffled by the situation: “I don’t know why Vodafone still thinks it’s OK to include internet data in a contract without first checking this is available to the customer. Not all customers would think to check they are being sold something that exists before signing a contract.”