Disco. Opera. Minimalism. Solo meditations for voice and cello. Collaborations with Allen Ginsberg on Indian-influenced meditations. Arthur Russell was a musician whose output spanned a huge and bewildering range of styles. But, whatever music he approached, it was always idiosyncratic and always had a personal stamp; it was this experimentation with genres and blending of musical and cultural hierarchies that defined his approach. As creative director of New York’s downtown performing arts space the Kitchen, his innovations helped to reshape today’s music world and bridge the gaps between the concert hall and pop music. He was one of the first people to book performances of Steve Reich and John Cage, juxtaposing them with David Byrne’s new-wave experiments. His approach to both music-making and curation helped to dissolve barriers and open up new creative spaces. Success eluded him during his lifetime (born in 1951, he died of an Aids-related illness in 1992), and it’s only with the advent of the internet and the breakdown of the boundaries that Russell’s work played with that his music has found a wider audience. Russell released only two full-length records and a handful of well respected disco EPs while he was alive. But he left behind more than 1,000 tapes of unreleased work – he had a chronic inability to mark anything as finished. Since his death, archival label Audika Records (set up by Russell’s former partner Tom Lee) has released several compilations of his work and a 2008 documentary, Wild Combination.It was around the time of the documentary’s release that I came to know his music. I was particularly interested in his 1986 album World of Echo and the way he created space within songs through his use of echo, distortion and phaser when applied directly to his cello. It enabled him to extend the possibilities of the instrument and create a huge sense of space while retaining its intimacy and nuance. I was amazed by the array of tones he could produce from his instrument and the way in which his playing interacted with his effects. At points, it sounds like a tabla, at others, like a wall of distorted metal guitars. And he was able to achieve all this while retaining each track’s rhythmic and melodic shape. His aim was to “redefine songs”, he wrote, “from the point of view of instrumental music, in the hope of liquefying a raw material where concert music and popular song can criss-cross”.His instrumentals almost do the inverse. They contain some of the tropes and forms of pop and folk music but are situated in the context of minimalist music, which was fast becoming part of the accepted classical repertoire in the 60s and 70s.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest There is some striking footage of him performing work from World of Echo shot by Phil Niblock on YouTube. It would have been just after his HIV-positive diagnosis. There is a beautiful sense of space and decay to the music he made around this time. As his friend and collaborator Ernie Brooks says in Wild Combination: “His gifts were increasing as his strength was leaving him.”On 14 January, the London Contemporary Orchestra along with two of Russell’s original collaborators Peter Zummo and Bill Ruyle, bring his only other finished album, the instrumental Tower of Meaning, to Kings Place, London, for its UK premiere. Originally written as music for a production of Euripides’s Medea by Robert Wilson in the 1980s, it was rejected owing to artistic differences between the two, but rerecorded for a release on Phillip Glass’s label Chatham Square in 1983. It’s based more on his avantgarde classical studies (he studied figures such as La Monte Young and John Cage, as well as Indian classical music) than his other instrumentals are and is beautiful in its meditative effect. A wide range of musicians have noted Russell’s influence on their work, from Hot Chip to Philip Glass. Even Kanye West sampled him on 2016’s Life of Pablo. He’s influenced my band the Portico Quartet, too – in particular his manipulation of acoustic instruments. I try to incorporate that into the music I write; I try to find ways of extending instruments beyond their natural sounds without sacrificing the intimacy and nuance of playing live. We also found ways of altering the saxophone to imitate a trumpet, and to create large spaces through echo and multiple lines with loop stations. You can hear that in Rubidium, and also in my recent collaborative work with Szun Waves.Last year, a concert of Russell’s instrumental work sold out almost immediately and the venue size had to be increased – twice over. There is still a large amount of work that could be released. His legacy and audience is bound to continue to grow year by year, and deservedly so.Bill Ruyle, Peter Zummo and the London Contemporary Orchestra will perform the UK premiere of Arthur Russell’s Tower of Meaning at King’s Place, London, on 14 and 15 January. Box office: 020-7520 1490.