MistletoeMistletoe is, as National Geographic remarked last year, “everyone’s favourite parasite”, although the pedant in me has to point out that it’s actually a hemiparasite, because as well as ligging nutrients off its host plant via a connecting organ known as the haustorium, mistletoe does provide some of its own energy via photosynthesis.The term mistletoe is a catch-all for a number of different plants around the world - many related, some not - but the UK native is Viscum album. Don’t be alarmed if you’ve never seen any where you live; its geographical spread across the UK is patchy and it is absent from some areas altogether. If you want to seek some out, mistletoe favours apple trees, limes, maples and poplars, although it can be found on other trees too. If you can’t find any real mistletoe, you could invest in the mistletoe cactus (Rhipsalis baccifera) as a hanging houseplant and steal a snog under that instead.For a whole host of information on mistletoe myth and legend, plus practical details of how to grow it in your own garden, go to Jonathan Briggs’ Mistletoe Pages site. And for more on mistletoe and other (hemi)parasites read our rare plant blogger Robbie Blackhall-Miles’ latest post. And I recorded a podcast about festive plants last December, which includes a segment on mistletoe. Listen here.Ivy      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ivy: bend it, shape it, any way you want it; ivy makes fantastic Christmas foliage. Photograph: John Glover/AlamyUnlike mistletoe, ivy is not a parasite, despite its bad reputation among many gardeners: it photosynthesises and gains nutrients from roots buried in the ground, not from a tree. As Rosemary FitzGerald writes in A Gardener’s Guide to the Native Plants of Britain and Ireland, “it is considered to be the home-owner’s enemy and undesirable in gardens”. And yet it is a fantastic plant for wildlife, a wonderful evergreen screen and a powerful symbol in art and culture, although its role as a festive decoration has been fading in the last few decades. It has many advantages over holly, though - it’s more widely and freely available, doesn’t spike you as you try to arrange it, and is easy to manipulate into swags, wreaths and any other shape you can think of. If you want to delve into the meaning of the popular carol The Holly and the Ivy, start with this piece in the Financial Times by Jan Dalley. And you can read our columnist Alys Fowler’s defence of ivy as a garden plant here. (We’ll look at the holly in part two of this series.)In her book The Green Tapestry, Essex plantswoman Beth Chatto recommends ivy as ground cover in dry, shady spots; under a dense tree, perhaps. She writes: “I had a long bare bank of clay at one end of the long shady border which I have completely buried beneath shawls of different forms of ivy.”Christmas rose      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Grown in a pot, the pure white flowers of the Christmas rose will stay pristine. Photograph: Juliette Wade/Getty ImagesOr should I say Helleborus niger, for as anyone who grows this plant in their garden knows, it very rarely flowers at Christmas, and isn’t a rose. Those pesky common plant names, eh? The wonder of this plant is that it boasts the biggest flowers of all the hellebores; pure white blooms that push up from the soil ahead of the leaves from January on. Despite its reluctance to flower at Christmas in gardens, it is easily obtained as a pot plant in bud now, so you can enjoy the flowers on December 25. You can risk bringing it inside into a cool environment for a few days, but don’t leave it too long to send it back to its preferred habitat outside; or just place it on an outside table you can see from a window, or by the front door. Growing H. niger in a large pot isn’t such a bad idea, as it prefers fertile but well-drained soil that doesn’t get boggy over winter; it also means the petals won’t get splashed with mud.Sprouts      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Growing brussels sprouts - akaBrassica oleracea Gemmifera Group - is probably best left to the farmer, unless you have a big allotment and plenty of time on your hands. Photograph: Matt Cardy/Getty ImagesWe all love a few Brassica oleracea Gemmifera Group on our plates at Christmas, don’t we? I may be stretching the theme a little here, but sprouts are foliage, after all. Sprout “stalks” have become the trendy way to buy your sprouts in the last few years, which has at least educated people about what part of the plant brussels sprouts come from (they’re buds, but you knew that, right?). They aren’t the easiest vegetables to grow for yourself, either. Like most members of the brassica family, they are long-season plants that need to be sown in February or March and planted out in early summer to limber up for a winter harvest. Sprout plants take up a lot of room, and if the tall stalks aren’t firmed into the ground sufficiently, the sprouts can “blow” - in other words, fail to form the tight balls we expect. If this is a problem - or perhaps you just don’t like sprouts, give kalettes a try - these kale-sprout hybrids were bred by Tozer Seeds as an alternative to the sprout, and naturally grow in a loose formation. Sage      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sage: a vital part of Christmas dinner. Photograph: Keith Leighton/AlamyNot only is sage a vital ingredient of the Christmas classic, sage and onion stuffing, its fragrant, evergreen leaves are also a wonderful addition to a homemade Christmas wreath, a table centrepiece with candles, or simply stuck in a vase with some silvery eucalyptus leaves, bay branches and rosemary. I’d also urge you to try herb guru Jekka McVicar’s wonderful crispy sage, apple and walnut salad from her book Jekka’s Herb Cookbook.Sage is also reputed to have health-giving properties - you name a condition, and there’s probably an anecdote that Salvia officinalis treats it, although you should bear in mind that not all of this is proven scientifically. As Caroline Holmes points out in her book RHS Herbs for the Gourmet Gardener, this reputation is the origin of the Arab proverb “How can a man die who has sage in his garden?”In the garden, sage likes full sun and well-drained soil; the best way to promote fresh growth is to prune it right back every spring, rather than letting it get too leggy and woody. Purple sage, Salvia officinalis ‘Purpurascens’ is particularly pretty, especially if grown alongside its green relative. If you don’t want to plant it in a dedicated herb bed, it looks lovely underplanting roses along with lavender.This is the first in a series of three blogposts on festive plants. To come next week: part two on the trees, and part three on the houseplants of Christmas. 