James Martin’s French Adventure 3pm, ITVShallots and lots going on in this new daily cooking show. James Martin idolises Keith Floyd to the extent that he bought the famed chef’s old Citroën 2CV. Now he is driving it around France to re-create one of Floyd’s classic TV trips, as well as revisiting some of the kitchens where the former Saturday Kitchen fixture served his culinary apprenticeship in the 1980s. He begins in Saint‑Emilion, where both the banter and wine flow freely. Graeme VirtueSilent Witness 9pm, BBC1The series wraps up with an intense two-parter, which finds Dr Nikki (Emilia Fox) in Mexico for the funeral of a former intern who died in a carjacking. Nikki is a world away from the Lyell Centre, but when she is caught up in a desperate situation, Jack (David Caves) has to think fast and make some tough decisions. Darker than the average Silent Witness instalment and, although the storyline is a bit of a leap, the cast plays it well. Continues Tuesday. Hannah VerdierGeorge III: The Genius of the Mad King 9pm, BBC2There was more to George III than his mental health, as this fascinating documentary aims to redress. Under the king’s long reign, Napoleon was defeated, Buckingham Palace was built and the industrial revolution was ushered in, while correspondence reveals a patron of the arts and sciences and a keen astronomer. As Simon Wessely of the Royal College of Psychiatrists says, “I’d imagine he’d have been quite fun to have dinner with.” Ali CatterallThe Undateables 9pm, Channel 4The Undateables deserves credit for being a series that could have been a reality show disaster – hardly unknown on Channel 4’s schedules – but which has been big-hearted and affirming, following people whose efforts to find love have been affected by disability. This last episode of the current run catches up with past participants, including Richard, whose autism has sabotaged his quest for a second date, and James, whose Asperger’s hasn’t stopped him. Andrew MuellerThe Art of France 9pm, BBC4The history of France, reckons Andrew Graham-Dixon, can be understood as “a struggle between rulers and people who didn’t always want to be ruled”. It’s a tension that has produced much turbulence but also some magnificent art. This new three-part series is an object lesson in placing culture in its social and political context; tonight, we begin with bucolic idealisations of the nobility of labour and end with the apocalyptic harbingers of revolution. Phil HarrisonCrackanory 10pm, DaveThe bedtime story series for grown-ups returns for a fourth run, with famous faces reading to camera as strange, twisted and often riotous worlds come to life via accompanying live action or animation. Kicking things off is Dara O Briain, reading the story of a Roman slave who, in trying to dodge his death, puts his life very much in danger. Continues tomorrow, Wednesday and Thursday with Sheridan Smith, Bob Mortimer and Anna Friel spinning yarns. Hannah J DaviesReal Time with Bill Maher 10.10pm, Sky AtlanticSomewhere between the righteous indignation of Rachel Maddow and the comedic indignation of John Oliver is indignation veteran Bill Maher, whose HBO talking shop is now in its 15th series. How liberals should combat Trump is the subject matter for the foreseeable future, with the studio audience roaring for resistance. The guests, in a show taped on Friday, include Eva Longoria and Democratic congressman Tim Ryan. Jack SealeFilm choiceThe Two Jakes (Jack Nicholson, 1990) 9pm, TCMOnce again Nicholson plays private eye Jake Gittes in this belated sequel to Polanski’s Chinatown. It’s 1947, 11 years on, but he is still haunted by the events of the earlier film, and now Harvey Keitel’s property developer Jake Berman is roping him into the murder of another woman. Los Angeles is a cruel place of relentlessly shifting realities in Robert Towne’s twisting script. Paul HowlettLive sportWinter Universiade The multi-sport winter event continues with the men’s and women’s cross-country events. 6.30am, Eurosport 1WTA Tennis: St Petersburg Ladies’ Trophy Coverage of the opening day of the tournament held in Russia. 10am, BT Sport 1La Liga Football: Las Palmas v Valencia Valencia, stuck in the relegation mire this season, visit the Estadio Gran Canaria. 7.40pm, Sky Sports 1