Comedian Tom Gleeson was the first to go there. Drawing uncomfortable laughter from the crowd at the Aacta industry awards on Monday, the host of Hard Quiz joked: “Hacksaw Ridge has been nominated 13 times, so it’s safe to say that in Australia the film industry isn’t run by Jews.”Gleeson was referring to the director Mel Gibson’s well-publicised antisemitic rants. They have caused many commentators to wonder whether the once A-lister will ever be able to bounce back, or can ever be rehabilitated.In the Aacta ceremony proper, held last night at Sydney’s Star casino, there was no mention of such matters – from Gleeson or anybody else. There were, however, lots of cheers and support for Gibson and his fifth feature film as a director, Hacksaw Ridge.Aacta awards 2016: Australian screen stars walk the red carpet – in pictures The gut-busting second world war movie scooped this year’s awards, winning nine including best film, best actor, best supporting actor, best original screenplay and best director. There were many cheers for Gibson and heartfelt speeches made in his honour.Some may wonder why a biographical war film about an American hero, set in the US and Japan, was judged by the Australian Academy of Cinema and Television Arts as the best Australian film of the year but such a decision is not unprecedented. In 2013, The Great Gatsby – Baz Luhrmann’s glitter-doused adaptation of what many believe to be “the great American novel” – took a record 13-gong haul.The Australian film industry is a flexible beast, forever contracting and expanding depending on the size of the body of water it’s dropped into. Marquee-name directors such as Gibson, who can bring the big bucks, will always be welcome here.When the mega budget movie circus comes to town, our world-class practitioners get to work with state-of-the-art equipment and our actors get a grand stage. It’s therefore hardly surprising that the industry’s big thumbs up tend to reflect where the work and glory lies.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A hell of a ride: a scene from Hacksaw Ridge. Photograph: PRNeedless to say, Hacksaw Ridge is a hell of a ride: very well directed, with a sense of pain practically weeping from its pores. But I reckon Goldstone (also nominated for the top prize) is a superior film. It’s a sumptuously shot outback noir with an extraordinary allegorical punch, from writer/director Ivan Sen. Unquestionably, it’s a great deal more Australian.Simon Stone’s expertly calculated drama The Daughter was another ripper; he was swindled out of a nomination for best director. Odessa Young did, however, win best lead actress for her faultless performance as the titular daughter. Young, an exciting presence, has a bright future ahead.In commercial terms, Goldstone and The Daughter made chump change compared with Hacksaw Ridge. That doesn’t bode well at this particular ceremony, given the Aacta award for best film has always gone to the biggest hit at the box office.In the six-year history of the event, there has been one exception, sort of. In 2014 director Jennifer Kent’s stylish creepy crawly The Babadook tied for best film with Russell Crowe’s much more successful (commercially speaking) The Water Diviner. The Aacta chief executive, Damian Trewhella, initially described the result as a “freakish outcome” and “a mathematical tie”. Results leaked to the Sydney Morning Herald revealed the Aacta board, in fact, decided the top prize would be shared.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Isla Fisher’s zinger-laden acceptance speech was one of the highlights of the evening. Photograph: Caroline McCredie/Getty Images for AFIDirector Eva Orner’s gut-wrenching detention centre exposé Chasing Asylum took best feature-length documentary. It was good to see the under-recognised Remembering the Man nominated in this category. Ecco Homo and The Baulkham Hills African Ladies Troupe weren’t but would have made worthy contenders.The Aactas don’t just honour Australian cinema; TV, of course, is also very much in its purview. Foxtel’s terrific Tasmania-set mystery-thriller The Kettering Incident, co-created by Victoria Madden and Vincent Sheehan, collected two small-screen awards: best telefeature or miniseries and best lead actress (Elizabeth Debicki). Bizarrely, the eight-part series lost best screenplay in television to The Letdown – a 27-minute episode in ABC’s Comedy Showroom.Samuel Johnson rightly won best lead actor in a television drama for his uncanny incarnation of music maestro Ian “Molly” Meldrum in the Seven Network’s excellent two-parter Molly, which drew a staggering 2.6m viewers. Isla Fisher was presented the trailblazer award, whatever that means, by Geoffrey Rush, who is also Aacta president and whose hair now deserves its own postcode.Fisher’s zinger-laden acceptance speech was the best of the night, by a country mile. The actor noted that when she started out, “I had everything against me. I was a redhead. I was five foot two. I was a woman. I was from Perth. Nothing’s changed.”Fisher explained that “there aren’t many roles for gingers, particularly because Amy Adams stole them all”. She thanked Donald Trump “for showing the world that it’s OK for unqualified orange people to win things”. Glorious. The next Aacta ceremony should have an MC, as long as it’s her.Aactas 2016: Mel Gibson's Hacksaw Ridge wins major awards The night’s big winner, however, was unquestionably Gibson. He is a director with enormous presence behind the camera, whose films (particularly Hacksaw Ridge, Apocalypto and The Passion of the Christ) are, among other things, immensely confronting portraits of pain, rendered in sometimes excruciating aesthetic detail.From standing ovations at the Venice film festival to terrific reviews and great word of mouth, Hacksaw Ridge is the sort of production that would ordinarily at this point in the calendar have “Oscar buzz” written all over it. But Hollywood, however, is – as Gleeson said, somewhat more controversially – very different to the Australian film industry. Gibson will be hoping the work speaks for itself. 