 The success of The Great British Bake Off and Channel 4 series Benefits Street helped makers Love Productions to achieve record growth last year.Spin-offs of hit show Bake Off such as Junior Bake Off, plus more episodes of BBC2 crafting show the Great British Sewing Bee and Channel 4 motoring series For the Love of Cars boosted revenues to almost £23m between April 2014 and June 2015 – up from £15.3m the year before.Next up for Benefits Street producers: Keeping Up With the Khans In the week that viewers will see Samantha Cameron take part in The Great Sport Relief Bake Off, figures lodged by Love show gross profit was up from £5.3m to £7.8m but operating profit was up just under £1million after administrative expenses more than doubled to £4.6million. Thanks to the continued rise of Bake Off – which was the most-watched show of last year after the final peaked at about 15 million viewers – dividends also rose. During 2014, Sky bought a 70% stake in Love and received a £2mdividend. The production company’s co-founders Anna Beattie and Richard McKerrow were given £466,745. According to Love’s financial statement which accompanied the results: “The period ending June 2015 has yet again seen a continuation of year-on-year growth for Love Productions to consolidate its position as one of the UK’s leading independent production companies.It said the “main driver behind this growth has been the continuing expansion of the Bake Off brand and the increase of returning series within our production profile. During the period we have produced a fifth series of The Great British Bake Off with production for series six also commencing in the period. The success of the Bake Off series continues to allow for spin-off shows such as Junior Bake Off and Celebrity Bake Off to be commissioned and produced.“The Bake Off series is not the only series for which the success has led to further series being commissioned. During the period, a further series for The Great British Sewing Bee, For the Love of Cars and the controversial ratings juggernaut Benefits Street were completed and delivered in full.”Love also started production on new BBC2 show The Great Pottery Throw Down, which proved a success when it aired at the end of last year, and a new series for Channel 4 called Keeping Up with the Khans. There have been suggestions that a bumper year for Love could mean large pay rises for The Great British Bake Off judges. However the production budget for the baking show is set by the BBC and talent pay comes out of that budget so any pay rise is likely to be a separate negotiation. In addition Love’s figures, which have been filed at Companies House, include programmes other than Bake Off so the show’s rise and the effect it might have on talent pay cannot be extrapolated separately. The company’s results also noted that in the previous year it had acquired 49.99% of a company called Love Sport Productions.