Spoiler alert: this article contains references to episode seven of Westworld. Do not read on if you haven’t watched. Fan theories give viewers a sense of control over their favourite show; an investment in the narrative that transcends passive viewing, gamifying TV to the extent that, if your theory turns out to be true, you can “win”. You can beat the writers. The other fans. You – yes, YOU – can be champion of the entire internet. Well, Reddit. Well, one distressingly niche Subreddit. But a win’s a win.Westworld recap: episode seven – it's Ford vs the board! Inevitably, most turn out to be spurious nonsense – was the Fresh Prince dead all along?; did Jessica Fletcher actually murder hundreds of people to further her writing career? – but some do hit the mark. One such example concerns fan-theory catnip of the moment, Westworld, and the revelation that sensitive everyman Bernard is in fact one of Ford’s automatons, who demonstrated his disinterest for Asimov’s Three Laws of Robotics by coolly crushing poor Theresa’s cranium against a wall. Somewhere out there, smug superfans are shrieking “CALLED IT” to no one in particular.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Revelation … sensitive everyman Bernard is in fact one of Ford’s automatons. Photograph: HBOWhether it’s a case of broken clocks being right twice a day or a diligent deduction of clues, other shows’ secrets have also been outed by fans. In some cases, fan theories have even been written into narratives. So keep guessing, and you never know ...Doctor Who?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Think the Time Lord’s real name is a coincidence? No. Photograph: Simon Ridgway/BBCThe mystery of The Doctor’s true Gallifreyan handle has lingered around the Time Lord for decades, long wafted away as simply unpronounceable by humans (with their ineffectual mouths that are completely identical to his). One Whovian, though, did coin a theory back in 1995: that The Doctor’s real name is “Doctor”, and that word came to have its Earthly associations with “healer” and “expert” due to his mucking about and saving lives in the past. Twenty years later, lo and behold, River Song explained that this was indeed the case. Coincidence? No. That Whovian in 1995 was one Steven Moffat, and, as showrunner of Doctor Who, he wrote his own theory into canon. Fair play.Sick Spongebob      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The sea is one messed up place. Photograph: Paramount/Everett / Rex FeaturesYou wouldn’t expect the most disturbing entry here to come from a kids’ show, would you? But yes: Mr Krabs is a crab. He runs Bikini Bottom’s fast-food emporium, which sells Krabby Patties, the recipe for which is a closely guarded secret. But one fan theory suggested they contained real crabs, which as you can imagine would present profound ethical dilemmas for Mr Krabs. When Nickelodeon finally published the recipe, it didn’t contain crab but “imitation crab meat”. Phew. Only that’s generally made of fish, so most of his customers were cannibals. Meaning: the sea is one dark, messed up place. Being a bit Klingy      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   How did the warrior race undergo such a drastic mutation? Photograph: Allstar/Cinetext/ParamountWhen The Next Generation introduced the pasty-headed Klingons we know and love, eagle-eyed Trekkers noted that the Klingons of the original series had smooth foreheads, and therefore that nothing in the world made sense any more. Some theorised that the warrior race had undergone a drastic mutation in the interim, and the show adopted this convenient idea faster than you can say “1960s TV budgetary constraints”. He’s alive!      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Swoonsome swordsman: the resurrection. Photograph: Helen Sloan/APThis particular theory didn’t have too long to percolate, and it’s unlikely George RR Martin was cruising internet forums with beads of sweat collecting in his beard desperately looking for ways to resurrect Kit Harington’s swoonsome swordsman. Melisandre “happened” to turn up, and Beric Dondarrion had previously been resurrected by the Lord of Light, so the clues were there. But Game of Thrones was always the show that could kill off anyone at any time, and Snow’s death seemed like a brave leap into an uncertain future. Yet fans put two and two together, and Jon Snow returned just as many had predicted. A bit Lost      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anyone who claims to know what was going on is lying, because the writers didn’t. Photograph: ABC/Everett/REXA show that burst out of the traps introducing more mysteries than it knew what to do with. Numbers, a smoke monster-cum-surly bloke in black, a magic light tunnel – anyone who claims to know what was going on is lying, because the writers didn’t. Nevertheless, one of the show’s oldest theories was that the survivors were wallowing in purgatory. And, while they weren’t at the beginning, the show unsatisfactorily ended by saying that they sort of were. It’s all a bit muddled because ... well, magic light tunnels and stuff. You tell me. 