Late-night hosts tackled Donald Trump’s activities over the Easter holiday, from his dinner with Xi Jinping to dropping the “mother of all bombs”.John Oliver on Donald Trump: 'A bully in the White House' Stephen Colbert picked up on the president having to be reminded by Melania Trump to put his hand over his heart during the national anthem, which marked the start of the annual Easter egg roll at the White House.“When I saw that footage, I almost forgot to put my hand over my face,” he said. “Yet [it was] not the most embarrassing thing to happen at the Easter egg roll. That honor goes to the official White House Snapchat account that sent out this snap gathered around the ‘secretary of educatuon Betsy DeVos’.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “It’s like Betsy DeVos always says: there’s no I in education, the way I spell it.”Colbert then quickly reviewed some of the events the show missed over the Easter holiday. “It was that night, 10 days ago when we were last filming the show, that Donald Trump hit Syria with 59 Tomahawk missiles,” he said.“Obviously, when you’re bombing another country that’s a decision you take very seriously, so he did it in the situation room with all available intel. Just kidding, he was eating dinner at Mar-a-Lago with the Chinese president.”He also pulled apart Trump’s “hard-hitting” interview with Fox News, in which he was asked if he had told Xi about the strike before dessert. “When did you bomb those people?” he sarcastically asked. “Before dessert? What’s the right wine pairing for a cruise missile? A merlot?”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Colbert then turned his attention to the so-called mother of all bombs, which was dropped on Isis targets in Afghanistan. “The mother of all bombs is a really dumb name,” he said. “And it’s a really old joke.” He then explained that the bomb got its name after Saddam Hussein said in 1991 that if the US invaded Iraq it would be the mother of all wars. The US created the mother of all bombs in 2003 as a retort ahead of the second Gulf conflict with Hussein’s administration. “So it’s an old reference. That’s like deploying a tank that says ‘on fleek’.”Trevor Noah also noted Trump forgetting to put his hand over his heart during the national anthem. “You can see Melania saying: ‘Come on, Donald, it’s easy. Just put your hand where the human heart is supposed to be.”Jimmy Kimmel also focused on Trump’s Easter vacation. After mentioning his 18th golf outing since taking office, he joked that the president had returned to the White House to “play a game of pin the tiny hand on the Easter bunny’s vagina”.Jimmy Fallon targeted the egg roll as well, joking about Trump being unsporting: “Every time a kid went for an egg, he’d hit it with a nine-iron.”