Is it Suzy, or Sarah, or Sally, or even Sarah Jane? - Vogue has unveiled its new editor. An entire topic of conversation is cruelly killed, only to be replaced by the equally tantalising question: just who is this woman?For Alexandra Shulman, 34, is not what’s known as a ‘fashion person’; she’s a journalist. She replaced Paul Keers as editor of the men’s magazine GQ, took it from bi-monthly to monthly and raised its circulation by 30 per cent. She worked on the Sunday Telegraph’s Seven Days, designed to be full of ‘colourful carnage’ à la Paris Match, and spent time editing the paper’s women’s page. She was features editor on first Tatler then Vogue.Alexandra Shulman's 'rather stylish' departure from British Vogue  According to a GQ staff member she is ‘completely brilliant’ to work for. Her lack of experience in women’s fashion is irrelevant, claims GQ’s style editor, Peter Howarth. ‘She’s intelligent and aware and is no less interested in fashion than she is in film, literature, politics - any of the areas that are part of the world we live in. She’ll be a real, involved editor at Vogue.’  Shulman is more modest, as well as sensitive to the feelings of outgoing editor Liz Tilberis and the magazine’s large staff. Some people might say that currently the clothes featured on the fashion pages are too, too silly or expensive, or that there’s nothing to read in it anymore. But Shulman says she needs time to understand the balance before she starts any tinkering. ‘Vogue’s circulation is up – it now sells 181,000 – so it is obviously successful. I am not going to turn it into a features magazine – that would be mad – but fashion does not exist in a vacuum. It needs to relate to people’s lives.’  Her personal style is a stark contrast to her predecessor, who wore Chanel or Catherine Walker to the office almost daily. Shulman seems resolutely relaxed about her own clothes. On the first day following her appointment she’s in the Vogue office wearing (I have to push her to list it) a Myrène de Prémonville navy jacket, black Agnès B skirt, cream frilly Ghost shirt and Joseph Azagury boots. Designer names, yes, but not stacked with status. Personal preferences include Ghost, Joseph and Dolce e Gabbana: ‘I like colour and texture. Sometimes I feel best in formal clothes because they impose a discipline on you. But I also like quite soft clothes. I’d be very unhappy if I felt I couldn’t wear what I wanted to wear,’ she says darkly. Then she grins. ‘But I am aware that I’ll have to brush my hair more often.’       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   27 January 1992. Photograph: The Guardian