Sterling K Brown is probably going to win an Emmy. A longtime mainstay of the New York theater scene and a television actor known for his roles as Roland Burton on Army Wives, Detective Cal Beecher on Person of Interest, and a recurring part as the twisted monster hunter Gordon Walker on Supernatural, Brown is poised to break out into real stardom on the back of his role as prosecutor Chris Darden in FX’s miniseries The People v OJ Simpson, for which he’s nominated in the best supporting actor in a limited series category.The cast of The People v OJ is stacked with big names including John Travolta, Nathan Lane, Cuba Gooding Jr and, of course, David Schwimmer. (Schwimmer and Travolta are also nominated for Emmys.) But the electric, lived-in chemistry between Brown and his co-star Sarah Paulson (who plays Darden’s fellow prosecutor, Marcia Clark) steals the show. Somehow, Brown and Paulson do the impossible: convincing the viewer that Clark and Darden had a whirlwind romance during the trial, even though there’s little to no evidence suggesting anything romantic actually occurred between them.Brown, sipping coffee at the Baccarat Hotel in New York, graciously credits this to Paulson. “That’s my homie,” he says. “I think she’s one of the most brilliant actors I’ve ever worked with, hands down.” As successful as the show has been, and as much as Brown’s chemistry with Paulson carried it, he’s unaware of the extent to which their play-acted relationship has permeated the internet. “I had a couple of people come up to me and tell me they call me Hot Darden, which is pretty cool,” he says, laughing. “I’ll take it.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sarah Paulson as Marcia Clark and Brown as Chris Darden: electric chemistry. Photograph: Fox/BBCThe People v OJ has landed so hard with viewers in part because it feels so relevant today, when seemingly every few months a police officer is acquitted of murder – or worse still, not even indicted – in a nightmarish mirror image of the eventual verdict in Simpson’s trial. This historical resonance is a boon for the show, but also leaves its mark on Brown, who is originally from Missouri. “When the officer who killed Mike Brown wasn’t indicted, I just broke into tears,” he says. Later that night, Brown had to perform in Father Comes Home From the Wars, a play by Suzan-Lori Parks riffing on The Odyssey. “Thankfully,” he continues, “I had the play to speak for me in a way I couldn’t even articulate for myself.”The subject matter of The People v OJ – and, it should be said, Brown’s role as one of the more prominent black members of the cast – means that his experience around the series has been a bit broader than simply discussing the role. “I’ve definitely been asked a lot more about the state of the world than in the previous 14 years of my career,” he says, laughing uncomfortably. Still, Brown has opinions, and he wants to share them.Musing on Jesse Williams’s “incredibly eloquent” speech at the BET awards, in which the Grey’s Anatomy actor linked the oppression of African Americans down the centuries to the white plundering of black culture today, Brown tries to articulate his view of his own responsibilities. “Immediately before that, with the loss of Muhammad Ali, it sort of dawned on me that what you do and who you are are not the same thing, and you should not necessarily be placed in a box” – at least professionally speaking. “Muhammad Ali was the greatest of all time,” he continues. “But what made him even greater was what he did outside the ring.” It’s in that light that he feels compelled to speak out when he’s asked about current events, especially in the ways they connect to the Simpson trial.OJ Simpson and the unshakable demons that continue to haunt America For example: Brown describes Johnnie Cochran’s tactics during the trial as the “right message with the wrong messenger”. (Simpson took pains to avoid being depicted as a black man and never used his wealth in support of black causes until his race helped him get off for murder.) Brown also takes pains to separate the spectacle of the OJ trial – which adds a comedic element to The People v OJ – from the superficially similar spectacle of the seemingly endless body camera videos depicting police killings. “They’re related in that they’re all for public consumption, but they’re different in terms of the way people were infatuated with the trial.”Still, the spectacle of the trial continues, not least in the renewed public appearances of Mark Fuhrman, the Los Angeles police officer whose history of racist remarks became a key argument for the defense in the trial. Brown is only familiar with his talking-head moments in Made in America, the ESPN documentary about Simpson. “I haven’t seen him in anything else. I know he was a correspondent for Fox News in the past.” He pauses, smiles. “Go with God.”Brown recently finished work on Marshall, a biopic starring Chadwick Boseman as Thurgood Marshall and Josh Gad as Sam Friedman, an insurance lawyer who serves as Marshall’s “mouthpiece” during a heated, racially charged trial in Connecticut (where Marshall had not passed the bar and was prohibited from practicing). Brown plays the defendant, a black man accused of raping a white woman.Reginald Hudlin, former president of entertainment at BET and director of Marshall, also wrote Marvel’s Black Panther comic from 2005 to 2008. Brown recalls reading: “‘Man, they’re never gonna make a movie about the Black Panther.’ And here we are, I just finished making a movie with the Black Panther ... If I could be a superhero, I’d look forward to that, sincerely.”That’s certainly a plausible outcome, given Brown’s newfound success and Emmy nomination. The hype around The People v OJ has led to some strange offers, including a “sort of Kirk Cameron Christian film” that Brown rejected because it “didn’t really jive with the way I see God”. Moving gingerly into discussing theology, Brown outlines his differences with the film’s producers: “I do not believe that any particular religion has any monopoly on salvation.” I ask whether that was true of the producers of the movie, and he laughs. “Nah.”Brown takes his religious life seriously, even when it brings him into conflict with his own mother. “My mom, who is a very strong Christian woman, will often ask me how some of the characters I play glorify God,” he says. “Her meaning is that she feels as if every character should be a good Christian character, which is not necessarily my interpretation.” For starters, it would make consistently engaging drama very difficult.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Susan Kelechi Watson as Beth and Brown as Randall in This is Us. Photograph: Ron Batzdorff/APBut getting to please his mom is part of why Brown is excited for his forthcoming role on This is Us, the highly anticipated NBC series from Crazy Stupid Love writer Dan Fogelman. His mother, Brown says, is “not a TV-MA kind of gal ... This is Us is definitely more of her wheelhouse”. Brown plays Randall, a successful businessman who reconnects with his absent biological father. “Randall is probably much more sure of himself,” he says, in contrast to Darden. “He’s wealthy. I ain’t wealthy.”Brown hasn’t exactly gone for the big bucks in his career. His first theater job was a Philip Glass opera adaptation of Kafka’s short story In the Penal Colony in which he didn’t sing or speak, just moved. He recounts living in Harlem in a fourth-floor walk-up, riding the bus across 125th Street for the air conditioning, and sleeping naked in a room so hot “there’d be a sweat imprint of my body on top of the bed”. “And I couldn’t have been happier. Because my overhead, to what I had coming in – the disparity was so great, I was like, ‘I’m pocketing $270 a week, son, are you kidding me? I’m killing the game!’ And that was the time I felt most financially secure, even though I’ve made infinitely more money since then.”So how will he use his newfound fame? Brown wants to form a “repertory troupe” of actors who could work on projects together. Besides Paulson (his first and most important selection), he lists The Knick’s Andre Holland; Brian Tyree Henry, who plays rapper Paper Boi in Donald Glover’s new series Atlanta; Vice Principals’ Kimberly Hebert Gregory; and Marshall co-stars Boseman and Gad. (“Hashtag ChadGad.”)Though it now seems like a fait accompli that Brown would be nominated for an Emmy, the past few months for him have been a process of slowly accepting the possibility that not only might he be nominated, he might well win. He recoils slightly when asked about the moment he first realized he could be nominated, when the crew responded enthusiastically to a screening of the pilot (that Brown and Paulson both skipped) and favorably compared The People v OJ to Brown’s favorite show, Fargo. “This year, as the nominations were coming, people were telling me, ‘Yo man, you gon’ got nominated, you gon’ win,’ and I was like, ‘Thank you, thank you, I appreciate that.’ You never know ’til you know.”Has he allowed himself to consider the possibility that he might win? “I allow myself to think about it.” He’s even started thinking about his speech. “I remember before, when I watched the Emmys or the Oscars and people had speeches, I was like, ‘They knew they was gon’ win.’ But no. You write a speech so that you don’t look like a jackass when you get up there and forget your wife’s name or anything else – just in case.” How did it turn out? “Talk to me September 19 and I’ll tell you how it went.”