When we rejoin Jason Bourne in the series’ latest instalment he is shirtless, with his fists raised, looking in very fine fettle indeed. He looks the part: the film itself is a wiry, stripped-down thriller, and its leanness is the best thing about it.Matt Damon and Paul Greengrass: ‘We'll never say never again’ Jason Bourne is at heart an extended chase sequence in which frazzled goons emerge from unmarked vans to set off after our absconding hero, while tetchy bosses back in Langley attempt to orchestrate things via a cascade of satellite feeds. If that sounds familiar, it should: Enemy of the State was released 18 years ago and has been a staple of Friday-night TV schedules ever since. Swap a beefed-up Matt Damon for a dressing-gowned Will Smith, and the two films are, for large swaths at least, pretty much interchangeable.Nor are they alone in this respect. The intervening years have seen, among others, Eagle Eye, Closed Circuit, Echelon Conspiracy and the first three Bourne films take the same blueprint and run with it, with varying degrees of success but little variance in premise and plot.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Will Smith in 1998’s Enemy of the State. Photograph: Allstar/Touchstone/Sportsphoto Ltd/AllstarThis sense of deja vu with a summer blockbuster shouldn’t be a surprise, but given how these films hinge upon the dazzling capacities of the day’s cutting-edge tech, there’s something especially odd about the similarities in their specifics: in Jason Bourne, as in Enemy of the State, mobile phones are surreptitiously slipped into pockets as ersatz tracking devices, fuzzy crowd images are enhanced on a monitor until a familiar face sharpens from the pixels, instructions are barked from a gleaming government HQ into the earpieces of pistol-toting footsoldiers. Admittedly, Enemy of the State’s cronies had to actually break into their target’s house to plant their bugs – no need for such quaint tactics this time round. But given all we hear about the breakneck rate of technological advancement, it’s notable how little the gadgetry in these tech-centric films has changed in two decades. Whatever happened to Minority Report's technology predictions? Paul Greengrass and co dutifully update Jason Bourne to include a subplot about a Zuckerbergian social media guru, and there’s a pointed line from one CIA suit that a hack into their mainframe “could be worse than Snowden”, but these topical tweaks are largely cosmetic. The plot essentially revolves around a government agency trying to kill a man to keep a lid on its own shadowy operations – a tradition that harks back beyond Will Smith’s semi-clothed skedaddling and to the grand splurge of paranoid thrillers of the 1970s, when films such as The Parallax View, Blow Out and The Conversation played out America’s post-Watergate neuroses on the big screen.The Bourne films have become touchstones of modern-era action cinema; 1992’s Sneakers is an underrated caper; The Lives of Others rekindled the fatalistic angst of the 70s classics. Enemy of the State stands up as a minor masterpiece, its riotous fun undimmed by the splurge of aping TV shows (24, Spooks, Alias) that trailed in its wake. And four years after Smith was prising tracers from his shoe heels to keep himself off-grid, Tom Cruise was prising out his own eyeball to the same ends in Minority Report, a film that anticipated the themes of corporate/government collusion that run through Greengrass’s latest effort with appropriate prescience.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   New tech, old tricks … Gene Hackman as Harry Caul in 1974’s The Conversation. Photograph: Allstar/ParamountNone of this, then, is new. The McGuffins of 2016 may be USB sticks rather than cassette tapes, but four decades after Harry Caul finally realised “they’d kill us if they got the chance”, the surveillance movie is not only alive and well, but its tropes have been tampered with very little indeed. The obvious move is to chalk this down to Hollywood’s great poverty of imagination, a risk-averse popcorn factory reheating the same tried and tested idea on repeat. But that would be to do the films an injustice. The surveillance movie may be time-honoured, but it’s far from outdated. As the Freudian brainiacs will tell you, watching people watch people will always have its place in cinema – but more obviously, these films continue to get made because they continue to get our attention.Be it Edward Snowden’s leaks from the NSA or the snooper’s charter on this side of the pond, you only need to open a newspaper (or a laptop) to recognise that the genre’s longevity is testament not to screenwriting laziness but to its own real-world relevance. Nearly half a century on from Tricky Dicky hiring a team of real-life Harry Cauls to bug his Oval Office, the politics of privacy is as hotly debated as ever. The issues played out by Bourne and co may not be new, but they’re still in the news. And so it makes sense for these films to have changed so little over the years: our anxieties around secrecy, security and surveillance remain much the same – and it’s only right that Hollywood continues to tap into them.