Rights advocates in Myanmar are calling on Aung San Suu Kyi’s government to halt discrimination against women after its failure to include them in talks to end one of the world’s longest running civil wars.Just 14% of official participants at the recent landmark Union Peace Conference were women, according to initial analysis by the Myanmar Alliance for Gender Inclusion in the Peace Process (Agipp). The group says the figure was even lower for the government cohort, which included just seven women – 9% – among the 75 people it sent to the talks, which took place in the capital, Naypyidaw, during the last week of August.Give women a real chance to build peace | Glenys Kinnock Plans are under way for a series of follow-up peace conferences, and women’s rights campaigners are pushing for the country’s first democratically elected government in decades to meet its international obligations under UN resolution 1325 on women, peace and security, and its commitments to the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women (Cedaw).The biggest challenge rights advocates face is traditional attitudes towards women, said May Sabe Phyu, a respected women’s rights and peace activist who last year was named an international woman of courage by the US State Department. “Not only men, but also women who are at the decision-making level – for example Daw Aung San Su Kyi – do not think that women should be at the peace table,” she said.She added that some international pressure and mobilisation from women’s groups had made it impossible for women to be ignored completely in the most recent conference process, which drew more than 660 official representatives and hundreds of observers. But, she said, women were still being denied meaningful participation.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   May Sabe Phyu, women’s rights and peace activist. Photograph: Gemunu Amarasinghe/AP“There is no mechanism to monitor or follow up on the implementation of those resolutions by the UN. It very much depends on member states’ own commitment. In Myanmar’s case, even though they have signed and ratified some of the UN conventions, they never follow [these] conventions,” May Sabe Phyu said.Decades of conflict in Myanmar’s ethnic minority areas have wrought a particular toll on women. Hundreds of thousands of people remain displaced because of ongoing violence and the country’s constitution ensures continued impunity for members of the military who commit acts of sexual violence in conflict. Yet women have consistently been marginalised from attempts to find a lasting end to conflict.“Honestly speaking, we are sick of giving the rationale for why they should include women in the peace processes. Instead, I want to ask what their reasons are for denying women’s participation?” said May Sabe Phyu.“Whenever men are involved in the conflicts, women are the ones who have to bear all the family burdens and [also] suffer the impact of conflict. Peace agreements will not last because of men’s greediness for power, position, money and dignity. Only when women are involved will the peace process look more at human values and humanity.”The issue of women being kept on the sidelines of the peace process was highlighted in July by the UN in the latest report on Myanmar’s implementation of the Cedaw.That report named the absence of a national action plan for the implementation of UN resolution 1325 and the underrepresentation of women in the peace process as areas of principal concern. It urged the government to address those issues to “ensure durable peace”.Women still face a fight for recognition in war and peace | Liz Ford “We want the media and international partners to please put pressure on the government to implement these recommendations,” said Nang Phyu Phyu Lin, co-chair of the Gender Equality Network and an Agipp steering committee member. “The government has already committed to them, but they have not been put into practice.” The UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, raised the issue of women’s participation in his speech at the opening of the recent peace talks. The UN special rapporteur on Myanmar, Yanghee Lee, has also expressed concern about women’s marginalisation from the peace process. “Myanmar in general has not performed well so far on this score,” she said, pointing to studies that have shown how attempts to reach durable peace agreements are strengthened by women’s participation and calling for a minimum quota of 30% female participants in all peace talks.A recent report by Human Rights Watch, A Gentleman’s Agreement: Women’s Participation in Burma’s Peace Negotiations and Political Transition, highlighted the problem of “tea-break advocacy”, in which female peace campaigners, unable to secure places at the peace table, had to resort to lobbying male delegates while serving them tea during recesses in official talks.“It is a struggle to get people to listen,” said Nang Phyu Phyu Lin. “There are a lot who will never listen if we ‘tell’ them things. The only way is to keep doing advocacy.”She said respected representatives of ethnic minority women’s organisations were able to talk directly with representatives of ethnic armed groups on an individual as well as an alliance basis, which had helped boost inclusion to some extent.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Workers ride on the back of a truck in Naypyidaw. Activists are calling for a minimum quota of 30% female participants in peace talks. Photograph: Ye Aung Thu/AFP/Getty ImagesHowever, female peace advocates continue to face obstacles in being accepted across all sectors, she said, and attempts to lobby the government for greater inclusivity have met with little success.Despite pre-election promises to back women’s participation in politics, Aung San Suu Kyi is the only woman to hold a senior ministerial position in government – she leads as state counsellor – and just 13% of elected MPs are women. But with battles taking place between the military and ethnic armed groups in the north of the country even as the most recent peace talks began, and no lasting solution to the conflict in sight, female campaigners have vowed to press ahead to make their voices heard.“We women want to participate in the peace processes not because we want to get power or position … We want our next generation to live in a conflict-free society,” said May Sabe Phyu.