Blanche Vaughan’s pork chops with apple and fennelA very French style dish, rich with butter and cream but sharp with tangy apple and mustard. Try to find good quality pork loin chops with plenty of fat, which keeps the meat succulent.Serves 2butter 10goil 1 tbsppork chops 400gsea salt and pepperfennel 200g, sliced thinlyapple 200g, peeled, cored and cut into eighthsthyme a few sprigs, leaves picked from the stalkcream 2 tbspdijon mustard 1 tbspIn a large, heavy bottomed frying pan on a fairly high heat, melt the butter and oil until it starts to foam. Put in the chops, season well with salt and pepper and cook for a few minutes on each side, including the skin side, until they are nicely brown and the flesh feels firm when you press it.Remove to a plate and cover with foil to keep warm.Turn the heat down to medium. Add the fennel, apple and thyme leaves to the pan and another pinch of salt and stir well to coat with the remaining butter. Allow this to cook for about 5 minutes so it begins to soften and lightly colour. Add the cream and mustard and about 100ml of water and continue to cook for another few minutes. The fennel and apple should have become soft and slightly brown and saucy. Return the chops to the pan and pour over any liquid from their resting plate.Serve straight from the pan with the fennel, apple and juices spooned over and mustard on the table.From In One Pot by Blanche Vaughan (Weidenfeld & Nicolson, £18.99. To order a copy for £15.19 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99Nigel Slater’s lentils, sausages, rocket and pecorino       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lentils, sausages, rocket and pecorino. Photograph: Jonathan Lovekin for the ObserverEnough for 2Warm a couple of glugs of olive oil in a deepish casserole, then add six fat, herby sausages and brown them evenly on all sides. Peel and finely slice two cloves of garlic, add to the pan and cook for a minute or two until they turn pale gold. Pour in a litre of stock, vegetable or chicken, and bring to the boil. Tip in 400g of small brown or green lentils (I used le puy), let the stock return to the boil, then lower the heat and leave to simmer, partially covered with a lid, for about 35-40 minutes until the lentils are tender but just short of soft. Correct the seasoning with salt and black pepper.Blitz 50g of rocket leaves and 75g of pecorino together in a food processor until you have coarse, green and white crumbs. Spoon the lentils and sausages on to deep plates, then scatter the rocket and pecorino over the top, letting the cheese soften slightly with the heat of the lentils.The trick: I suggest checking the lentils every five minutes throughout their cooking time. Lentils vary in size, variety and, it has to be said, age, and take vastly different times to approach tenderness.I prefer to salt them towards the end of the cooking time, as occasionally an early salting seems to toughen them, as it can other dried pulses.The twist: This recipe can be adapted to include thin strips of belly pork instead of sausages.Cut the pork into pencil-thick strips, cook briefly to crisp the fat, then continue as above.Margot Henderson’s squid and potato stew      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Squid and potato stew. Photograph: Louise Hagger for the ObserverI discovered this dish in Marcella Hazan’s brilliant book Classic Italian Cooking – she is an inspiration to all cooks. Buy fresh squid of medium size, and ask the fishmonger to clean them if you don’t want the messy job. Cleaning squid can be a bore, with the eyes popping out at you and the ink sacs spurting all over the place. But once you start your attack, it can be satisfying.Serves 4squid 1kgwaxy new potatoes 1kgolive oil 125mlgarlic 8 cloves, choppeddried red chilli flakes 1 tspfresh flat-leaf parsley a handful, choppedwhite wine 175mltinned chopped tomatoes 100g (¼ of a tin)water 100mlClean the squid. Cut the bodies into 1½cm wide strips and leave the tentacles whole, unless they are very large. Peel the potatoes and cut into 3-4cm chunks.Heat the olive oil in a wide, heavy-bottomed pan and add the garlic, chilli and parsley. Cook for a couple of minutes, then turn up the heat and add the squid. Once it is sizzling away, add the white wine and let it bubble for a minute to reduce.Add the tomatoes and potatoes and pour in the water. Turn the heat down and simmer gently with the lid on for about 40 minutes, stirring occasionally, until the potatoes are cooked through.From You’re All Invited by Margot Henderson (Fig Tree, £25). To order a copy for £21.25 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99Lindsey Bareham’s red orzo risotto with goat’s cheese      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Red orzo risotto with goat’s cheese. Photograph: Chris TerryOrzo is perfect for minestrone-type soups. It’s great, too, for faux risotto, saving time and effort, yet behaving beautifully and giving a silky mouthful with a creamy finish. It takes about 10 minutes to cook in boiling, salted water, almost the amount of time you need to make a chunky red pepper, red onion and tomato sofrito.It is cooked in olive oil and flavoured with saffron, garlic and flat-leaf parsley. It could be made with freshly roasted peppers, preferably the long, pointed Romano variety, or you could cheat, as I did, and use roasted piquillo peppers in a jar.Serves 3-4orzo pasta 250gsaltolive oil 2 tbspred onion 1garlic 1 clove, largeroasted or chargrilled Romano or piquillo peppers 150gsaffron stamens a pinchvine tomatoes 4 (200g)olives 70g, pitted dry black (a Crespo sachet)flat-leaf parsley leaves 10gsoft goat’s cheese (Coeur de Lion, Chavroux) 100gCook the orzo in plenty of boiling salted water in a spacious, lidded sauté or frying pan, stirring once to prevent sticking, for about 10 minutes until just tender. Drain, but reserve a mugful of the cooking water. Tip the pasta into a warmed bowl, toss with 1 tablespoon of the olive oil and 2 tablespoons of the cooking water, then cover with a stretch of clingfilm.Trim, halve and slice the onion. Heat the other tablespoon of olive oil in the pan and add in the onion. Cook, stirring often, for 6 or 7 minutes. Peel the garlic and crush it to a paste with a pinch of salt. Peel the roasted Romano peppers, if using. Slice them or the piquillos into ribbons and chop a few times.Stir the garlic into the onion, add 2 tablespoons of the orzo cooking water, cover, reduce the heat and cook for 10 minutes.Add the saffron and mix it in, followed by the peppers. Quarter the tomatoes and blitz them into passata. Pour it into the pan. Simmer for a few minutes until juicy but not too wet. Mix in the drained pasta and turn off the heat. Halve the olives round their middles and chop the parsley leaves. Stir both into the pasta. Serve with a few teaspoons of goat’s cheese.From One Pot Wonders by Lindsey Bareham (Michael Joseph, £18.99). To order a copy for £16.14 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99J Sheekey steamed shellfish, by Tim Hughes      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Steamed shellfish. Photograph: Howard SooleyServes 4live cockles 200glive mussels 400glive clams 200gextra virgin olive oil 30mlonion 1 small, peeled and finely choppedgarlic 1 clove, peeled and crushedthyme 1 sprigwhite wine 125mldouble cream 100mlwhite crabmeat 100gbrown crabmeat 50gflat-leaf parsley ½ small bunch, choppedtarragon 4 sprigs, leaves removed, choppeddill 4 sprigs, choppedsalt and freshly ground black pepperWash the cockles, mussels and clams in cold water. Scrub with a brush if necessary and remove the beards from the mussels. If any of the shells are open, pinch them a few times. If they do not close, discard them.In a large heavy-bottomed saucepan (you may need to do this in 2 batches), add olive oil and gently cook the onion, garlic and thyme until soft. Add the cockles, mussels, clams and white wine. Cover with a lid and cook on a high heat, stirring occasionally until the shells have opened. Discard any that are not open. Add cream, crab and chopped herbs and stir. Bring to the boil. Season. Serve immediately from the pan.Tim Hughes is chef-director of Caprice Holdings; j-sheekey.co.uk 