Roy Hodgson’s owly face      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A snowy owl (left) and Roy Hodgson (right). Possibly. Composite: PA Images/RSPBNoting that Roy Hodgson looks a bit like an owl is hardly the most original observation in the world – even Russell sodding Howard spotted it, for goodness sake – but it’s nevertheless a correct one. With his tousled hair and remarkable ability to scrunch his face up into a compact ball, the present England coach is second only to former Leeds and Sheffield Wednesday manager Howard “tawny” Wilkinson in the “senior football figures who you might mistakenly feed a mouse to” stakes. Yet whether Hodgson’s beaky features have been a blessing or a curse for the former Fulham man is difficult to say. One on hand it may have helped him avoid the sack after England’s useless 2014 World Cup showing (picture yourself screaming “you’re fired” to this. You just couldn’t do it, could you?). On the other hand, Hodgson is unable to ever visit Colombia for fear of being booted half to death by a petulant centre half. And Colombia’s meant to be lovely this time of year. So it’s a mixed bag. In summary:Hodgson’s resemblance to an owl: 10/10The benefits of resembling an owl if you’re an international football manager: 5/10GMA Pat Butcher / Pam St Clement clock      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I think there was a time when having a monochrome canvas print on your wall was considered to be in borderline acceptable taste. A monochrome canvas print of an actor with a pair of clock hands glued to the front, not so much. But that hasn’t stopped snappily titled business Canvas Clocks (A5) – Actresses (they also have an actors branch) from making them its speciality. All of its prints are based on photo-realistic drawings by John Sutton, and all are signed by the artist. What I like most about this clock is that you can tell it wasn’t intended as an arch re-appropriation of naffness because Canvas Clocks (A5) – Actresses doesn’t just deal in kitsch pop-culture characters: you’ve got everyone from Cate Blanchett to Farrah Fawcett and Joan Greenwood in clock form. When I say everyone, I mean everyone (there can’t be much demand for Letitia Dean, surely).It’s this sort of indiscriminate attitude that means the product precludes what can feel like the inescapable irony of modern life. Obviously all the people buying this are just laughing at Pam St Clement’s face, though. Sad. 8/10RABeing very condimentary      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest There is no surer way to gauge the appallingness of person than by regarding the colour of sauce they plop on to their full English. It’s a simple test: brown (the person in question is refined, intelligent, buff and probably superb in bed); red (meek, inconsequential, probably still sucks their thumb); and none (awful, Man U-supporting, Jason Derulo-liking, Topshop/man-wearing, flat white-drinking smudge of humanity). It was ever thus.Yet within the sauce groups themselves there are factions, and the sworn allegiances therein. Fittingly, since it is Lord of Sauces, the fiercest battle is waged between HP and Daddies brown sauce; HP, the institution, the actual Houses of Parliament emblazoned upon its chest; and Daddies, the cheeky, bantering, Monday piss-up funster. The time has come. Let’s end this now. Daddies is a truly superb sauce. Tangy, yet sweet. Inoffensive without ever dipping a toe into blandness. Warming, like a soiled trouser leg. A fine addition to any condiment tray. But... but. There’s a problem. A nagging itch. And here it is: HP is all of those things, only ever-so-slightly more so. Its tangyness feels more savoury; its warmth more distinguished. In sufficient quantities it will also blast through a sinus blockage like a cannonball made of mustard powder and hammers. Daddies is great, but it also comes with the unmistakeable tinge of being second best. Phil Neville to your Gary. East 17 to your Take That. Sitting on a couch in your pants as opposed to lying on a couch in your pants. And, like a regrettable couch stain, this sense of settling for second place will never go away.So there it is. Daddies is a fine, proud brown sauce. But is it the finest or proudest? No. Oh, and for legal reasons I probably should have said this sooner, but other brands of brown sauce are apparently available for some reason.Daddies: 9/10HP: 10/10LHErm, some art      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: SilverangelReally pleased you asked us to review this, Silverangel (if that is your real name). Your pictures are nice and psychedelic, if a bit reminiscent of new rave visuals. But, generally, they’re pretty great, and I can imagine hanging them on my wall, if only to tell visitors that I remember m-cat fondly. However, your titles need some work.Firstly, Teeth And Gums isn’t the most palatable name for a series. No one ever called the gums the windows to the soul: they simply don’t have the poetry of other organs. Even within the genre of mouth portraits, this picture is a more immediate example of the form. Keep it abstract: magicians don’t reveal their tricks.Secondly, Into The G-Spot is simply not a name I can ever imagine a Sotheby’s auctioneer announcing. Or one I’d tell my visitors. That’s going to seriously impact how investable art-buyers consider the work.In conclusion: keep it up, stick to abstract names, and maybe steer clear of body parts yeah?7/10CJ