The debate about how we replace the quarter of our electricity generation capacity shutting down over the next 10 years is a real and urgent one. Central to it is the challenge of doing so while cutting the amount of carbon dioxide the UK's power plants release into the atmosphere. A recent article in the Guardian by Guy Newey at Policy Exchange raises many important points – not least that the impact of lowering emissions on our economy should be a core consideration.Building new plant is expensive, and regardless of which option we choose to meet this short-term need, prices are going to rise. Until 2020, our options are simple: we can deploy new gas plant, or we can deploy a mixture of gas and new wind generation; these are the only technologies which can be deployed in time and in sufficient quantities. Onshore wind, as Policy Exchange recognises, is the cheapest form of low-carbon generation currently available, and its inclusion into our generation mix will displace gas generation while the wind is blowing, lowering overall demand and thus lowering gas prices – as well as emissions. Offshore wind, while more expensive, can also play this role.The amount of onshore wind we can deploy is limited by multiple planning constraints. Offshore wind is less restricted and can be deployed in greater quantities. Without it, we will be locked into higher gas demand up until the 2020s, when the Committee on Climate Change is recommending we rapidly decarbonise our electricity supply to keep us on the path to 80% cuts by 2050.Unconventional sources of gas, such as shale gas, are unlikely to provide much mitigation to consequential price rises. The lesson from the US is that even large quantities of shale gas present in, for example, the Bowland Shale, do not mean that significant quantities can be extracted economically. The cost of extraction rises substantially beyond a few core areas of a shale gas play.Policy Exchange's alternatives to renewables for cutting our carbon emissions by 80% by 2050 depend in large part on the massive expansion of either nuclear power or carbon capture and storage. While both may form part of a future energy mix, it's not clear that in reality they will play as strong a role as Newey's recommendations require.The major utility Scottish & Southern Energy has recently pulled out of a new nuclear plant project, with rumours of other utilities about to make similar decisions, while the only outstanding bidder for the government's CCS demonstration project is also rumoured to be pulling out. The economics of these technologies are not tested – no nuclear plant has been built in Britain in over 15 years, and CCS does not exist at a commercial scale anywhere in the world.In contrast, the economics of wind, both offshore and onshore, are well known. Moreover, nuclear power and CCS are certainly not market-based solutions, which Policy Exchange seem to prefer. The government's electricity market reforms provide support to all low-carbon technologies, not just renewable energy.The risk with Newey's approach is that both nuclear and CCS fail to deliver on the scale required, and in the wake of soaring gas prices we embark on a rush for offshore wind in the late 2020s – importing technology from abroad, having lost our first-mover advantage. With the prospect of over 70,000 jobs in the offshore wind industry if the UK chooses to move into the lead, this would be a lost opportunity.The UK has been here before. Our previous "dash for gas" in the 1990s has led to the very high increases in household bills we've observed over the past few years, as demand for gas has soared and wholesale prices have shot up. A second dash for gas could push up our bills by 52% over the next five years, according to Ofgem. Over the same period, a package of green measures would increase bills by 23%. More than that, instead of locking us into imports of gas, it would allow us to build a new domestic industry. Let's learn the lessons of our energy history.• Dr Gordon Edge is director of policy at trade association RenewableUK