I always knew riding all the way from Manchester to London in one day was going to be a struggle. It was designed that way. Simon Mottram, Rapha’s dapper founder, put on the event to raise money for Ambitious About Autism, a brilliant little charity which helps his profoundly autistic son, Oscar. “Having autism is hard. So the event had to be hard too. We weren’t going to just ride to Brighton or have a nice jaunt to Paris to look at the Eiffel Tower,” he said at the pasta party on Saturday night.Before signing up, the furthest I’d ever pedalled was the 114-mile Dunwich Dynamo, and that was five years ago. Setting off from the velodrome in Manchester on Sunday morning, that was still the furthest I’d ever ridden. I had quite a few more centuries under my belt, including the tough Etape du Dales and the very enjoyable Ride London. But I still went into the event having really only cycled half the distance.Here are the lessons I learnt on the way:Everybody hurts — some timeAt the halfway point I was feeling pretty decent. The red arrows we had been following all the way from the start suddenly turned blue to indicate we were nearer London than Manchester, and I was still in quite good shape. My friend Adam, however, was suffering, and demanded an emergency Cherry Coke stop at the next garage. I was keen to crack on, worried we would miss the time cut-offs, leading to a colourful exchange which included the phrase: “If you don’t stop going on at me, I might as well just pack it in here and now” (only with more swearing). Forty miles later it was me who had hit the wall.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Still smiling: Helen Pidd and her friend Adam at the halfway point on the Rapha Manchester to London ride, before things started to go terribly wrong. Photograph: Helen PiddRiding a long way can turn you into a right cowSorry again, Adam, for calling you a dickhead when you missed a turning. And for saying: “Are you going deliberately slowly to piss me off? ‘Cos it’s working.” I did not deserve your tolerance later on when my speed dropped way below the prescribed 14mph, the tears were imminent and you tried to distract me by getting me to name cheeses and dogs beginning with every letter of the alphabet. I still think you should have let me have hot dog for H, though.Just because you’ve never bothered with chamois cream before, doesn’t mean you shouldn’t nowI’ve never really bothered with chamois cream before. I didn’t know where to put it. Front or back? Both? I felt weird putting it on, and it just seemed an unnecessary indulgence. I knew not to wear knickers under my shorts (a one-way ticket to chafe-town, as Trek’s Chris Garrison likes to say) and once I’d found a comfortable saddle which put my weight on my sitbones rather than the delicate soft tissue up front I no longer suffered saddle pain. So no cream for me. Big mistake. Huge. The chafing began just after the halfway point and was so painful by the time we reached Enfield that every bump in the road actually made me cry. Only the thought of all the money I had raised for Ambitious About Autism kept me going (and the fact I could blackmail a load more dosh out of my mates when they saw a picture of the state I was in). Bad times. On which note:There’s no dignity in having to beg a paramedic for Sudocrem after 142 milesThank you, nice paramedic, for letting me dip into your big pot of unguent, even if you did make me wear a purple rubber glove to do so, making my trip to the toilet for application rather more conspicuous than I’d have liked.Being in the saddle for so long can send you loopyMy friend Lee was overheard talking to an energy bar towards the later stages of the ride. Somewhere near Welwyn Garden City I remember needing my granny gear to get over a humpback bridge but found I lacked the strength in my fingers to move my shifters, leading to the refrain: “Little gear, little gear, let me in.” (Not by the hairs on my chinny chin-chin). For the last 50 miles or so, every time the road rose even a fraction, Adam kept saying: “This is Winnats Pass all over again”, even though Winnats, in the Hope Valley in Derbyshire, wasn’t even on the route and is steeper than any of them.You cannot eat too much, only too littleAnd yet there will come a point where you don’t want to eat anything at all. I was too busy weeping at feed station four to get anything down me but a few mouthfuls of soup and a quarter of a ham sandwich. Here is what I did manage to troff from dawn ‘til dusk:4.30am Breakfast: yoghurt with strawberries, banana, pomegranate and passion fruit (can you tell I work for the Guardian?) and two slices of toast, one pot of tea.On the ride: one peanut butter roll, two bananas, two sausages, one cornish pasty, three sausage rolls, three flapjacks, two Tracker bars, one energy gel, one jacket potato with cheese and beans, the aforementioned soup and sandwich.At the finish: 1.5 beers, chilli concarneThe next day you will be hungry like the wolf. I had a bowl of Irish stew and poached eggs on toast for my recovery breakfast.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rapha’s official photographer caught Helen stuffing her face with a pasty at the second feed station. Check out the death stare from the chap on the right! Photograph: Matt RandallHertfordshire is chuffing hillyThe Rapha M2L ride asks participants to pledge their allegiance to the north or the south, and each is given the appropriate cap. At the end, the team with the quickest average time gets the “privilege” of the ride ending in their part of the country the following year (like you’d do it twice - ha). Last year the South won, so the ride began this year in Manchester and ended in London.I was firmly in the North team and in the run-up to the event would merrily discuss with my fellow northerners how the hard bit was basically our back yard – the Peak District, where we ride every week - and that it was downhill from there. Ergo the southern softies would suffer more. Well, whaddya know. Hertfordfordshire is chuffing hilly. Hills I cursed in that county included Carbone Hill and Cattlegate Road in Northaw, plus plenty of other tiddlers that were unhelpfully strewn with gravel. Riding them in the dark, with 200-odd miles already in my legs and bum probably didn’t help.Not enough women (are silly enough to?) ride such long distancesAround 160 riders tackled M2L this year. Just 15 of them were women. Plenty of studies have shown that women excel in endurance events, so we’ve all got it in us. Next year, ladies!It’s worth it in the endI’d say only a quarter of Sunday’s ride was truly pleasurable – the first bit, heading out into the Peak District as the sun rose above the mist. Half of it was bearable. The last quarter was snotty, teary, painful, mardy purgatory. But we made it! Yes, we sailed pretty close to the midnight cut off time, reaching the Olympic velodrome arm in arm like Team Sky on the Champs-Élysées at 11.30pm. But what a feeling it was, having actually done it. It was only when uploading the ride on Strava later and marvelling at the straight line from north-west to south-east that it really sunk in. On the train back up to Manchester the next day I couldn’t quite believe we’d done the same journey with our legs. By the time I was home, we’d raised over £2,000 for Ambitious About Autism. If you would like to donate too, I’d be chuffed to bits. Here’s the link      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   We made it! Celebratory beers at the Olympic velodrome after completing Rapha’s Manchester to London challenge Photograph: Kim Kelly