If the real world increasingly feels like a waking nightmare, take comfort in the news that more escapism is on the way: Coronation Street, television’s longest-running soap opera, will be extended to six episodes a week as of next year.Coronation Street to go six episodes a week from next year It says something about the unwavering popularity of the British soap that, in the face of ever-growing choice, viewers appear to want more, not less. In the late 1980s, Coronation Street was on screens just two nights a week but, like its main rivals Emmerdale and EastEnders, over the decades, it has been steadily extended.Few of us watch TV like we (or our parents or grandparents) did back when soaps first hit our screens, or when 30 million of us sat down to watch Dirty Den hand Angie divorce papers on Christmas Day in 1986. The shift to multiple channels, streaming services and digital recording devices could have meant a daily, scheduled serial becoming wildly unsuitable for modern television. But, nonetheless, like Den emerging from the daffodils, the British soap refuses to die. In fact, it thrives.There’s something soothing about having a regular date with a soap opera, like checking in with old friends. It’s a reminder that while the media industry and young demographics are in thrall to Netflix and boxset binges, other, perhaps older audiences remain wed to the schedules – or, like me, use Sky+ to make my own. This is not to say that Corrie is the televisual equivalent of warm slippers – recent storylines include revenge porn, gambling debts and a drug dealer being buried under Gail Platt’s bedroom – but that the genre allows a familiarity that other formats simply can’t recreate. When Coronation Street’s Anne Kirkbride died last year, after decades on screen, fans didn’t just mourn for an actor but for Deirdre Barlow (pottery, glasses, belts and all).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A standard week: Gail and Kate come to blows on a hen do. Photograph: Andrew Boyce/ITVWith three hours a week, month after month, soap writers produce many of British TV’s most recognisable figures, particularly women. Unlike in other formats, where women are often sidelined as decoration, the serial has given us countless complex, flawed, brilliant female characters: anyone from Elsie Tanner to Kim Tate to Zainab Masood.Corrie’s ability to deliver slow, subtle comedy amongst the drama means it is particularly suited to longer screen time – programme-makers have said the extra episode will give “space for the comedy of the show to really breathe”. There are few other shows that would – or could – dedicate multiple scenes to two men playing Boggle. Characters such as Norris Cole or Mary Taylor – let us never forget the Misery parody – couldn’t be created anywhere else. It’s the same for comedy plotlines: from Weatherfield’s best serial killer John Stape locking up schoolgirl Rosie Webster in an attic and teaching her English Lit, to the recent scenes of Sally Metcalf (nee Webster) running for the local council.Few entertainment vehicles consistently produce such pleasure across such wide audiences, and Coronation Street is still the pinnacle of the British television schedule – six days a week.