The son of an Irish grocery shop manager, Terry Wogan began his career in banking before securing a job as a newsreader and announcer with Irish broadcaster Radio Éireann (RTE). Wogan worked on news and documentaries with RTE, with a brief stint as a radio DJ, before moving to Britain.At 29, Wogan became one of the presenters in the original lineup of BBC Radio 1 when it launched in 1967. Other DJs included breakfast host Tony Blackburn and John Peel.He first presented the BBC Radio 2 breakfast show in 1972 after deputising for Jimmy Young and presenting his own daily show on both Radio 1 and Radio 2. He left in 1984 to host a thrice-weekly chat show on BBC1, called simply Wogan. He returned to Radio 2 for a second stint on the breakfast show in 1993, and would remain for another 16 years.‘Numbing of the prefrontal lobes’Wogan covered the Eurovision Song Contest for BBC radio for the first time in 1971 and began his TV coverage of the event in 1973. He went on to cover the contest for UK and Irish audiences for more than three decades. “All I’ve gained by watching the Eurovision Song Contest over the years is a numbing of the prefrontal lobes,” Wogan once said. “Ten seconds after the contest has finished, I’ve forgotten every song … The whole thing has become an astounding, huge, grandiose load of rubbish.One of the founders of the BBC’s Children in Need, Wogan began presenting the annual charity appeal in 1978, when it began as a five-minute broadcast on Christmas Day. It became a live evening of programmes in 1980 and Wogan hosted the event until 2014. He faced criticism in 2007 after it was revealed he was paid a fee for the show, which he later waived.Unlikely pop starWogan’s version of The Floral Dance was a top 30 hit in 1978. A follow-up single, Me and the Elephant, was less memorable, and he remains better known for playing records than making them. He returned to the recording studio to make cover versions of Silver Bells and Little Drummer Boy/Peace on Earth, with Aled Jones, for Children in Need.Wogan presented BBC1 TV quiz show Blankety Blank for four years until 1983. It was famous for its bargain-basement prizes – including the infamous consolation prize, the Blankety Blank chequebook and pen – and Wogan’s wand-like microphone that panellist Kenny Everett regularly tried to break in half. Wogan was succeeded as host by Les Dawson and, later, Paul O’Grady.The most infamous episode of his BBC1 talkshow was the appearance by a drunken George Best in 1990. “I could see him coming at me from across the stage, the eyes were glazed and I knew the worst had happened,” Wogan recalled. “He’d shunted down several bucketfuls in about five minutes. He was drunk as a skunk.” Other memorable appearances came courtesy of Anne Bancroft and David Icke.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  From Blankety Blank to Wake Up With Wogan: Terry Wogan’s career in the spotlight – videoHonorary knighthoodPlain old Terry Wogan became Sir Terry in 2005 when he was given an honorary knighthood. He joined a select group, including Bob Geldof and Bill Gates, to receive the honour, usually only bestowed on British and Commonwealth citizens. If followed an honorary OBE in 1997.With nearly 8 million listeners, Wogan had long been the most popular breakfast show in the country. He once described Radio 1’s Chris Moyles, who has the second most popular breakfast show, as “in doubtful taste”. Moyles responded by saying he would “tear that wig off his head and shove it up his arse”.Not everything Wogan touched turned to broadcasting gold. His short-lived Channel Five talkshow, The Terry and Gaby Show, which he presented with Gaby Roslin, was dropped in 2004 because of poor ratings. The show was made by a production company run by the man who replaced him on Radio 2, Chris Evans.‘It’s Cyndi!’His most inauspicious broadcasting moment was announcing the wrong winner at the end of BBC1’s Eurovision Song Contest heats in 2007. “It’s Cyndi!” announced Wogan. “It’s Scooch!” corrected his co-presenter, Fearne Cotton. If Wogan was upset, it was nothing compared with how Cyndi felt. The BBC’s director general, Mark Thompson, absolved Wogan of all blame.As well as being one of the BBC’s biggest stars, Wogan was also one of its most outspoken. “When I started, people who worked for the BBC knew they weren’t earning as much as people in commercial television, but they did have the satisfaction of knowing that they worked for one of the finest, if not the finest, broadcasting organisation in the whole world,” he said in 2008. “I’m not sure they feel that any more, or at least that it means as much as it used to.”Wogan’s sardonic commentary was invariably the best thing about Eurovision, on which he commentated for 35 years. But it was no laughing matter when he stepped down in 2008 after tiring of bloc voting and complaining it was “no longer a music contest”. He was replaced by Graham Norton. Wogan later described the musical jamboree as a “triumph of appalling taste” and said “everyone knows it’s rubbish”.Countless hours of morning companionshipAfter 27 years – in two stints – on the BBC Radio 2 breakfast show, Wogan announced on air in September 2009 that he would be stepping down and that Chris Evans would succeed him. “I wanted to be the first to tell you,” he told listeners. “It’s the least I owe you, for endless years, countless hours of morning companionship, friendship, good humour, and laughter. Your loyalty and support has been a beacon of love in my life.”Wogan returned to radio in February 2010 when he began hosting the Sunday morning Weekend Wogan show. The final broadcast of the show was in November 2015.