Cameron Leslie has had better weeks. On Tuesday, the co-founder of Fabric, arguably the UK’s best known nightclub, faces Islington council in a licence review hearing that will determine the future of the venue. But with a growing discourse around the cultural and economic significance of the capital’s clubland and increasing frustration from clubbers after years of venues closing their doors, Tuesday’s meeting represents so much more than the survival of one club. “I can’t say I can give you confidence,” says Leslie. “I’m hopeful. But this is a real complex challenge. Look at the picture of London in 2006 then in 2016, and just take that as a snapshot. This is not a thriving industry. If we close I think it would be a rather damning testament to exactly where we are at the moment.”Fabric’s situation has shocked the clubbing community. Three weeks ago the club closed its doors after its licence was suspended following two drug-related deaths this summer. Since then there has been an outpouring of support for the venue, with DJs, promoters and clubbers sharing their memories – using the hashtag #fabricmoments – of a club that has played a pivotal role in introducing a generation to underground music. With nightclubs in decline, what does modern Britain get up to after dark? A Change.org petition was launched calling on Mayor Sadiq Khan to: “Save London’s nightlife. Stop the closure of Fabric.” It has since gained over 100,000 signatures. Khan – who is currently advertising for a night tsar for the capital – responded, stating that he wants the club to survive, though he has since made clear in an interview with Time Out that he “does not have the power to intervene in licensing cases”.On Friday, MP for Islington Emily Thornberry chimed in too, writing on Facebook that she strongly believes Fabric should stay open and that some of what is being asked of the club is “neither reasonable nor appropriate”.“As a parent, my heart goes out to the family and friends of anyone who has lost loved ones at such a young age,” she wrote, “But we must guard against the assumption that dangerous drug use would cease simply if we were to close a nightclub like Fabric.”For Fabric, a 2,500-capacity venue that programmes the world’s top electronic music acts, the licence review highlights the catch-22 situation many venues – but particularly clubs – find themselves in. It has been described as a “beacon of best practice” when it comes to safety, yet faces closure as a result of incidents many would argue the club could not have prevented. For Alan Miller, chairman of the Night Time Industries Association (NTIA), if the operational measures Fabric already have in place aren’t enough to satisfy a licence committee, then no club stands a chance.“It’s obviously very sad people died, but to isolate it and say it’s down to the responsibility of the nightclub … If you close Fabric, you’ll have to close every nightclub in Britain, because no one has the due diligence, extra staff and safety measures they employ,” he says. Save Fabric: our clubs are under threat as never before | Bill Brewster Fabric says that since opening 17 years ago, it has always been pioneering in its approach to safety. All drugs confiscated are audited, signed off and handed to the authorities. Anyone suspected of dealing is taken into a CCTV monitored room and the police called. “We’ve always had a fantastic relationship with police and particularly the council,” says Leslie. “Only eight months ago a judge tested all our systems and said we’re a beacon of best practice. Eleven weeks ago another licensee, from a venue that had a death, was sent to visit us to see how we managed things. How can this suddenly have changed overnight in such a damning way?”In statements from the police in supporting documents provided to the licensing committee, Fabric is described as “a safe haven for the supply and consumption of illegal drugs”.Superintendent Stuart Ryan, from Islington police wrote: “If the premises is permitted to remain open and operating in its current form, then there is a strong possibility that further drug related deaths will occur.” “How do you stop people taking drugs before they get into a club? [The government] can’t even keep drugs out of prison.”Duncan Dick, editor of Mixmag Recent deaths in Fabric have not happened in a vacuum, however. Deaths from ecstasy have been increasing – with the drug said to be at its strongest in over a decade. According to the Office for National Statistics, deaths from ecstasy rose from eight in 2010 to 50 in 2014. This year reports of those dying from ecstasy – usually teenagers – have been frequent. Last week a 17-year-old boy, believed to have taken drugs, died at Leeds festival. Despite incidents like these becoming more common, the most sincere harm-reduction efforts have not come from the government, rather the initiatives of smaller groups and charities. In August Mixmag launched a campaign to promote safer ecstasy use, advising its readers: “Don’t be daft, start with a half.” Meanwhile charities such as Chill Welfare and the Loop – whom Fabric has collaborated with – have taken their pioneering drug testing and advice centres to festivals in the UK. But this is by no means the norm.“The government isn’t doing anything at all in terms of harm reduction,” says Duncan Dick, editor of Mixmag, explaining why the magazine started the campaign. He points out that harm reduction strategies are far more critical to stopping future drug deaths than trying to stop drugs coming into clubs. “How do you stop people taking drugs before they get into a club?” he says. “They can’t even keep drugs out of a prison.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Reduced opening hours would be a slow and painful death’ … Fabric nightclub in Farringdon, London. Photograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianFabric hopes the licensing committee will take its ambition to “set a new gold standard for safe clubbing” seriously. Among the measures it wants to introduce is a new search policy, industry-leading training for staff to identify and tackle drug­ taking and drug dealing in clubs and a working group with the police and drugs awareness charity the Loop to establish best practice and continually review its operations. The hope is that Islington council will support them in doing this. As for what the outcome will be on Tuesday, it may not be a binary one. Perhaps the most difficult for the club would be if it is allowed to stay open but with conditions that make it unworkable as a business – such as reduced opening hours – a situation that led to the recent closure of the Arches in Glasgow. “It would be a slow and painful death,” says Leslie, who has 250 members of staff to think about as well as himself. At a time when City Hall is only just beginning to shape a policy on the night-time economy and the cultural value of dance music and its venues barely starting to be acknowledged, Fabric’s closure would set an unnerving precedent for the capital. Clubs of that size could become a thing of the past. “You can’t get bank funding and why would any private individual put their money into building a large-scale venue when the risks are so great that your licence can be removed for events sometimes out of your control?” says Leslie. “Why would anybody do that? The night-time economy is broken.”In a letter to Islington council’s licensing board, Mixmag’s editor, along with more than 900 others, wrote passionately in support of Fabric. Shutting it down, he wrote, would be an act of “self-mutilation”.“Please don’t rip the heart out of London by closing Fabric,” he wrote. “Once it’s gone we will have lost so much more than just a club.”