Millennials! Don’t sell your TVs just yet. You might be bored silly with the wasteland that is cable programming, but DirecTV’s new cord-cutting over-the-top service, DirecTV Now, will feature a 24-hour channel dedicated exclusively to the work of pop star Taylor Swift.Taylor Swift is the world's best-paid musician Taylor Swift Now will feature “videos, concert performances, behind-the-scenes footage, and more from Swift’s archives”. In other words, Taylor Swift Now will be the most expensive screen saver in television history.But what does “and more from Swift’s archives” mean for her fans? What do Swifties have to look forward to besides videos they could easily access on YouTube right now for no extra charge? Glad you ask, dear reader, because the Guardian has obtained the launch day lineup for Taylor Swift Now in a journalistic coup that will surely be criminalized as soon as Donald Trump takes the oath of office in January.6am – #SquadGoals      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The squad, part one. Photograph: Larry Busacca/Getty ImagesAs you might have guessed already, Taylor Swift will hardly be involved with Taylor Swift Now in an on-camera role, much like Oprah Winfrey’s relationship to OWN or Mephistopheles’s arrangement with Fox News.Instead, Gigi and Bella Hadid host this morning show dedicated to inspiring young women to pout more in their Instagram photos. The program will last for three hours.9am – Sweater weather      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sweater weather? Photograph: evgenyatamanenko/Getty Images/iStockphotoSponsored by Target, this program dispenses with actual weather forecasts (after all, we’re just guessing) and emphasizes the important daily choice of which chunky sweater is most appropriate for the day ahead. This will be presented by someone who looks a lot like Taylor Swift but is not Taylor Swift.11am – Bad Blood      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Katy Perry – top enemy. Photograph: Noam Galai/FilmMagicA documentary series in which each episode chronicles a different Taylor Swift feud – from Katy Perry to Kanye West. Think 30 for 30, but with significantly fewer second act drug busts.1pm – Red Talks      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mario Lopez spreading the gospel. Photograph: Jason Connolly/AFP/Getty ImagesTaking inspiration from the insanely popular TED Talks series, a bunch of people not named Taylor Swift gather for a roundtable discussion of the Taylor Swift album, Red. Celebrity panelists include music critic Robert Christgau, Saved by the Bell star Mario Lopez and comedian Michael Ian Black. Watch them speculate on which famous celebrity the song Treacherous is about and play tracks from the album while they bob their heads and say nothing.4pm – We’re running out of programming  Darkness descends on Taylor Swift Now. Photograph: Barbara Walton/EPAThe screen just goes black for a bit. I mean, how interesting is Taylor Swift anyway? Her fans will probably watch this, so why make an effort?6pm – Swift My Ride      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Xzibit, the original ride pimper. Photograph: APMarvel as an unpaid intern who met Taylor Swift briefly during an all-hands staff meeting relays her quickly dashed off yet approved-through-appropriate-corporate-channels advice on how to refurbish a car to a grateful fan. Have you heard that fuzzy dice are popular again? Have you considered an air freshener? Perhaps clean linen scent?8pm – A list of celebrities who have wronged Taylor Swift      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Blake Lively, list reader in chief. Photograph: Jamie McCarthy/Getty ImagesIt’s finally prime time, so Taylor Swift Now is giving viewers exactly what they want – names. They want her to name names. Blake Lively will recite the names of each and every one of Taylor Swift’s ex-boyfriends and their crimes inside a completely black room. The program is one hour long and piggybacks into the next show.9pm – Shark Cage      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jake Gyllenhaal, whom we know All Too Well. Photograph: Dan Steinberg/Invision/APBroadcast from an undisclosed location outside of the jurisdiction of the Geneva Convention. Each week, a person whose name is on the above list is dragged out in handcuffs with a black bag over their head. They are placed inside a small cage and hoisted above a tank filled with hungry sharks. Tune in for episode one, featuring Jake Gyllenhaal begging for forgiveness. Will Taylor Swift show up to commute his sentence, or is she busy shooting a Revlon commercial?11pm – Music videos      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Shake It Off. Shake It Off. Off. Photograph: PRShake It Off is my favorite.Midnight – Illuminati power hour      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Beyoncé interviews a French mermaid. Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesNow that they have completed the necessary blood sacrifice of the day, the rituals may commence. Thirty-three bald druids sign Gregorian chants. A tiger mates with a lion in the distance. Beyoncé interviews a French mermaid. Chrissy Teigen reveals her plan to make Americans obese with her latest cookbook. Tupac shows up. The real Tupac. There is no sign of Taylor Swift.