Summer Heights High – box set review Before the mock-doc became commonplace on television, an Australian man called Chris Lilley cornered the market in needy reality beasts with his outrageous mockumentary Summer Heights High.Set in a Melbourne state school peopled with attention-seeking students and teachers who were just as bad, Lilley wrote and starred in it, playing all the main parts. It focuses on three characters in particular: narcissistic nightmare schoolgirl Ja’mie King (it’s pronounced Ja-may); troublemaker Jonah Takalua, permanently abusive to his betters (“Puck you, Miss”); and Mr G, the emphatically showbiz drama teacher with delusions of his own huge, wasted talent.Here are 10 moments, on its 10th anniversary, to go back and enjoy once more.Mr G’s self-penned school productions      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nuthin’ but a G thang ... Mr. G. Photograph: Princess PicturesThe colourful posters for Mr G’s shows decorate the walls of his office, yelling titles such as Ikea: The Musical and Tsunamarama, the story of the 2004 tsunami tragedy, set to the music of Bananarama.Six of the best ... Ja'mie King clips Ja’mie ingratiates herself with her new peersPrivate school exchange student Ja’mie addresses her new schoolmates thus: “Studies have shown that students from private schools are more likely to get into uni and end up making a lot more money, while wife-beaters and rapists are nearly all public school-educated. Sorry, no offence, but it’s true.” She always says “No offence” before she says something truly dreadful about “povoes” and “bogans”.Jonah punks Miss WheatleyJonah’s teacher makes the mistake of letting him know he’s getting to her. One afternoon, as she reverses in the staff car park, Jonah lies on the road behind her rear wheels, pretending to be dead. “Miss, you got punked,” he gurns as she sends him to the head’s office. Again.Ja’mie breaks up with Sebastian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Girl power ... Lilley as Ja’mie. Photograph: Princess PicturesLilley makes a man in his 30s in drag dramatically breaking up with a 12-year-old boy funny rather than horrifically creepy. You forget Lilley’s under there as he tosses his glossy wig and bawls-out young Sebastian for not paying her enough attention.Rodney ParsonsPossibly the best character in Summer Heights High remains almost mute throughout. The abusive friendship between the piano-playing science teacher and his office-mate Mr G stalls when Rodney leaves the door of the gym ajar, allowing Mr G’s lapdog Celine to run into the road and get hit by a car. The incident is later incorporated into Mr G: The Musical.Death comes to Summer Heights HighWhen one of the year 11s, Annabel Dickson, tragically dies after taking ecstasy, Mr G’s response is one of barely concealed prurience and glee as he tries to get gossipy details from her grief-stricken friends. “She was into the boys in a big way,” he later confides to the film crew. “She was what the kids would call a ‘slut’. Which is a terrible thing to say about someone who’s just died, but apparently there’s no denying she was one.”Annabel Dickson: The Musical (later Mr G: The Musical)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Song and dance ... Mr G and crew. Photograph: Princess PicturesThe highlight of the series is this hastily written and shamelessly exploitative school production. Annabel’s family later express dismay at its content and Mr G re-writes it about – take a guess – himself. But before he does, he writes the abomination that is Annabel Dickson: The Musical. “She’s a party girl with a bad habit, a bad habit for drugs,” he sings, bashing out the chords on his keyboard, eyes ablaze with creativity.Appropriate behaviourMr G demonstrates, on a pupil called Toby, who has Down’s syndrome, where it is and isn’t appropriate for a teacher to touch a student while they’re hugging. Anyone else would struggle to keep this scenario on the right side of bad taste, but he judges it perfectly.Ja’mie’s good worksEver the altruist, Ja’mie organises an Aids-themed dress-up day to raise money for Africans with Aids. She actually wants the money for the year 11 formal. When the formal is threatened, she and her clique decide to hunger strike until it’s reinstated. Plus starving will keep them hot-looking for the big day.Jonah’s farewellFor all the monstrous, cartoonish moments, Lilley genuinely breaks your heart as Jonah when the Tongan teen is finally expelled from Summer Heights for his continually appalling behaviour. He is physically dragged from the classroom as he goes into full denial. He has one final breakdance in the road outside before being driven away to a new life in Tonga. As the camera pans up and out of the school, we see that a departing Jonah has marked every vehicle in the car park with his trademark “dick-tation” tag (a penis followed by the word “tation”). And as the crane shot continues up into the sky, it is revealed he has saved one last giant tag for the classroom roof. It is, as Mr G says, “the smell of life, the smell of children”. Drink it in.