“Fifty songs that make us feel like men”; “20 Songs to celebrate the Superwoman in you”. There is no shortage of playlists on offer designed to reinforce your chosen gender identity.But are there really songs that, even in this era of gender fluidity, can be regarded as specifically male or female? Surely, for instance, Tammy Wynette’s anthem to uxorial loyalty, Stand By Your Man, works only when delivered by a woman, preferably in sequins and with big hair? But witness Brad Paisley’s cover, unveiled recently on ABC’s Jimmy Kimmel Live!, in which the song was recruited to the cause of transgender bathrooms.In the classical song repertoire, there is nothing new about women singing men’s songs. Schumann’s Dichterliebe and Schubert’s Winterreise – song cycles generally associated with a male persona – have often been sung by women; it is perhaps more surprising to learn that in the 19th century there was a tradition of men singing Schumann’s Frauenliebe und Leben, about the loves and lives of women.But in the world of choral music – specifically, music written for what is loosely called the English cathedral tradition – we are still working out how gender-fluid we are or want to be.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The St Paul’s Cathedral choir during the Christmas carol service, 23 December 2012. Photograph: Leon Neal/AFP/Getty ImagesThe issue arises as more cathedrals and college chapels recruit girls to sing in choirs that have for centuries been the preserve of boys. Gloucester Cathedral is the latest to sign up to this revolution; with Merton College, Oxford, soon to follow the lead of St Catharine’s, Cambridge, in establishing the opportunity for school-age girls to sing in university chapels. It is a movement that has brought some controversy, a lot more of it muttered than published. Of the more vocal opponents, Simon Lindley from the Campaign for the Traditional Church Choir expresses a florid but typical sentiment: “The fact is that the sound of the singing boy has been felt for century upon century to be very special and particularly appropriate for worship. Indeed, it is a sound which would have fallen soft upon the ears of Christ himself as he prayed in the temple.”There are several objections one might make to this, leaving aside its cloying piety. The first is that our assumptions about what was, or what was not, sung by boys over the centuries has been skewed by various forms of cultural and gender appropriation. Take, for instance, the music of the Tudor period. The Latin anthems and masses of Thomas Tallis and William Byrd are staples of our cathedral and college choirs, but the notion that this was the type of ensemble for which Byrd and Tallis were necessarily composing is distinctly problematic.  The male-dominated English choral tradition has been effective in appropriating music intended for other vocal resources Byrd’s Mass for Four Voices is now regularly delivered by choirs of two dozen cassocked, be-ruffed men and boys in vast, candlelit edifices – the quintessence of what we know as the English cathedral tradition. And yet this could not be further from the original performance environment of Byrd’s Mass: a private chapel or chamber, poor acoustics, one singer to each part and quite possibly a female voice singing the highest. The male-dominated English choral tradition has been highly effective in appropriating for itself music originally intended for other vocal resources. Mendelssohn’s O for the Wings of a Dove, which for most will prompt in the imagination the sound of an English boy treble such as the great Ernest Lough, was in fact first performed in a concert hall and by a female soloist.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Another iconic solo for boy trebles, indeed the ultimate test, is Allegri’s Miserere: a piece that is, to all intents and purposes, a musical fiction and nothing much to do with Allegri at all. The work’s notorious top C is not Allegri’s at all but an editorial invention, and the Sistine chapel, for which the Miserere was composed, did not employ boy trebles until the early 20th century. In the Sistine chapel at least, the sound of a singing boy was for centuries regarded as particularly inappropriate for worship.We should also question what exactly this special and so venerated boy treble sound is. The recent meticulous work of music historians such as Timothy Day has taught us that we should regard the sound of the English boy treble more like an aesthetic brand, cultivated during the middle decades of the 20th century, than as an expression of an inherent, pristine vocality exclusive to boys. Research into the contrasting vocal characteristics of boys and girls attests to the very real differences in timbre and voice production between them, but also acknowledges that, in choirs, these differences can be negligible, dependent on the training and direction they are given.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Members of the Canterbury Cathedral girls’ choir in rehearsal. Photograph: Gareth Fuller/PAWhich is not to say that the cultural artefact of the English boy treble is not something to be celebrated and nurtured (whether or not it was “the voice that Christ heard in the Temple”). However, what should concern those of us who wish to extend opportunities for girl choristers is whether the model established by all-male choirs is the one we really want to follow. Are we in the business of claiming – or in some instances reclaiming – territory from boys’ choirs? Or should the challenge be to reinvent the tradition in a new image?Setting aside for a moment the issue of gender discrimination, there are several other attributes of the traditional cathedral choir that are ripe for reassessment. An unhealthy relationship with the fee-paying school sector is one; a situation that requires many chorister parents to pay for the privilege of having their children sing in church. Another is the repertoire itself, with an over-reliance on forms and styles inherited from the Edwardian and Victorian eras.This second challenge is, at least, being addressed; with the quality and diversity of work being commissioned by these new, ambitious girls’ choirs contributing to a real vitality in choral composition in the 21st century. The boys’ choirs should be grateful. They’ll be stealing the girls’ music before you know it.• Edward Wickham is director of music and a fellow of St Catharine’s College, Cambridge. A recording of contemporary music by the Girls’ Choir of St Catharine’s is out this week on Resonus Classics.