Collect seedheadsDon’t be too hasty to tidy up the garden: leaving browning plant stems standing over winter provides vital habitats for wildlife. But keep an eye out for the particularly attractive seedheads of poppies, alliums, nigella, agapanthus, teasels and the like. Cut these, keeping long stems intact, place them inside a paper bag and hang upside down somewhere airy indoors to dry. Any ripe seeds should fall into the bag and can be set aside for sowing. Once bone dry, arrange the seedheads in a vase or put them aside to be sprayed silver or gold come Christmas.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Collect attractive seedheads. Photograph: AlamyLikewise, leave the leaves: most of us can only dream of owning ranks of chicken wire cages for collecting autumn leaves to make into leaf mould. In the real world, leaves that fall on flowerbeds can be left in situ; they’ll break down quickly enough and be incorporated into the soil by worms. Leaves on lawns can be raked on to beds, or run over with a mower, which not only collects them effortlessly, it also kickstarts decomposition. Add the blitzed leaves to beds as a mulch, add them to compost heaps or place in plastic sacks punctured with a few holes and stuffed somewhere out of the way for a year or two until they turn into leaf mould.If your compost heap is overflowing, it’s time to harvest some “black gold”. I shovel the un-rotted top layer into a rubble sack until I reach compost that’s dark, crumbly and mostly free of worms (a sure sign compost is ready). The finished product goes on to flower and veg beds as a mulch and top-dresses shrubs and herbs in pots. And the contents of the rubble sack? This goes back in the composter in layers a few centimetres thick, consisting of grass cuttings, kitchen waste, leaves and other autumn debris. Invest in a Darlac compost aerator (£14 from Garden Gear). Use it regularly and you’ll find the heap goes down much more quickly.Divide perennialsA few years after putting it in the ground you may find your favourite plant is starting to look lacklustre; good growth on the outer edges of the clump, but dying off in the middle. Hostas, day lilies, astrantias, hardy geraniums, sedums and many other clump-forming hardy perennials can be divided now to reinvigorate the plants, and make more for other parts of the garden. Dig up the root ball of the plant, shake off excess soil and lay it out on a piece of plastic sheeting for some surgery – some can be unravelled by hand while others will need back-to-back forks or even a pruning saw to prise them apart. (While you’re at it, check for and squish vine weevil; small white C-shaped grubs that feast on plant roots.) Each newly formed clump should have a few healthy-looking roots and shoots. You can either replant them in the garden or pot up to pass on to a gardening friend. Keep them well watered until established.Spruce up garden furnitureWooden and metal furniture can start to look pretty ropey after a few seasons of British weather. But a splash of colour can transform it, and protect it through the winter months – particularly useful if you don’t have anywhere to store it under cover. Cuprinol garden shades can be used on all exterior wood; Ronseal garden paint works on wood, brick, terracotta and metal. Pastel beach hut stripes may hark back to summer holidays, but bear in mind that unless you’re a whiz with a brush, this look is hard to execute neatly and will double your work time.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Getty ImagesInstead, make chairs and tables pop with colour. Try Cuprinol’s Dazzling Yellow or neon pink Sweet Sundae, or Ronseal’s Lime Zest. If you want furniture to be unobtrusive, paint it charcoal grey or black; or, if you’re feeling thrifty, throw caution to the wind and mix together any half-used cans of exterior woodstain sitting in your shed. I risked this recently – the colour turned out a pleasing shade of blue-green, and I used up all the odds and ends of tins I didn’t know what to do with.Plastic furniture (including synthetic rattan) may just need a wash to smarten it up. Wash down with warm water and a few drops of Stardrops all-purpose cleaner, then rinse with a hose. Use a soft bristle brush (an old toothbrush is ideal) to remove ingrained dirt. Magic eraser sponges can help to get rid of really stubborn marks. Plastic garden furniture can be painted, too; try Rust-Oleum Direct to Plastic Spray Paint or PlastiKote Outdoor.Salad days: how author Charlotte Mendelson transformed her patio into a garden larder Wait for a dry spell, and ensure the surfaces to be painted are smooth, free of lichen, bird poo and other debris. You can power-wash it or get to work with sandpaper, but make sure it dries completely before you paint.Grow winter vegBare soil is the enemy of the veg patch: local cats confuse it for a litter tray, and heavy rain can wash away nutrients. After you’ve cleared the remains of tomato plants, pumpkins and other summer crops, cover soil with homemade compost, grass cuttings, well-rotted manure or worm casts and top with corrugated cardboard, weighed down with bricks or stones. If you have a cloche or some fleece you can press into service, winter salads such as ‘Winter Marvel’ lettuce from the Real Seed Catalogue and corn salad ‘Verte de Cambrai’ from Franchi Seeds are ideal for sowing now.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sow salads such as ‘Verte de Cambrai’. Photograph: AlamyBroad beans are another October sowing staple, but tall plants can be damaged in bad winter weather, so try ‘Super Aquadulce Small’ from the Organic Gardening Catalogue, which is extremely hardy and reaches just 75cm. If you’re in more northerly climes, hedge your bets and wait until spring to sow into pots or open ground. Branches of prickly shrubs or trees (holly, pyracantha or the like) positioned around newly sown beds will see off any cats with mischief in mind.