Sipping coffee in a Manchester cafe with Richard O’Neill I am caught up in the sweep of his stories; anecdotes tumble into tales, digressions into fables. So it comes as no surprise when the 54-year-old tells me that in the Traveller community, history is circular and their stories are “not a race to get from A to B,” he says “but a lovely journey; we pick you up, show you things and then bring you back again.” Today, however, our conversation seldom ends up in the same place where we began. “What was the question again?” O’Neill laughs.He may make it hard to remember but we are supposed to be talking about the children’s stories he has created, thought to be one of the first Roma, Gypsy or Traveller stories to be published by a mainstream publisher. Packed with details of a travelling life – from horse fairs to traditional crafts – the magical tales are a celebration of the lives and histories of Gypsy, Roma and Traveller communities. One is the story of a Traveller girl whose terrible attempts at playing music attract the attention of an ogre. While the other follows a boy who keeps his family cheerful in hard times by telling them stories about a huge white horse. Central to both books is the importance of family.O’Neill says he picked the two stories from his own family lore – tales passed down through the generations of his English Gypsy family. “In my family, stories were everything,” O’Neill explains. “If you were happy or sad, or didn’t know which way to go, someone would say ‘Ahh well, think about your uncle Harry. Now Harry – there was a clever man …’”In a culture with a strong oral tradition, stories are the way family history, knowledge and values are passed on – as well as a form of self-expression. Some could be hundreds of years old, others from last week. Swapping stories, he says, bound people together – essential for traditionally nomadic people for whom family structures were the only safety net. “If you were sat round a fire, or in a house, people would vie for attention. It would be in the caravan, in a car, in a truck – wherever you are.” At social occasions, for instance, telling stories could even get competitive, as each listener jostled to add their own stamp to the conversation, and be part of the storytelling magic.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A page from Yokki and the Parno Gry. Photograph: Courtesy Child’s Play International LtdIn hard times, stories could be a comfort blanket, or a way of finding solutions to problems – a broken down car today creates the same problems as a broken wagon wheel a century ago, he points out. “You would have someone tell a story about 300 years ago and someone telling a story about yesterday – it’s like a form of counselling. ‘I’ve had a worse day than you. I had a puncture and then this and this …’ But the person is fine because they are back in the family and we will get the puncture sorted out.”Even relatives who are no longer living are not excluded, says O’Neill. “They are here with us in story, whether they are physically with us or not. Death is not hushed away; my father died 34 years ago now and he is in my everyday conversation – that keeps him with me.”It was his father, O’Neill says, who was the best storyteller he knew. When O’Neill was a very young child his family were nomadic, but by the time he was five “our traditional stopping places were consumed by urbanisation”. His mother was from the “settled” community – the daughter of a pit man. Along with his brothers and sisters, O’Neill was used to looking out on their travels for old furniture in the barn that the owners would want to sell to his mother, who became an antiques dealer.His father, meanwhile, was a “human eBay” – buying and selling goods across the country. When his business started to grow, the family settled in a house for part of the year, but continued moving around the country the rest of the time. In a small family group of uncles and aunts, they would often spend weeks at horse fairs – traditional meeting places for the Roma, Gypsy and Traveller communities.Driving between places that the family had stopped at for generations, O’Neill’s father would tell his children stories or riddles. “What gets wetter the more it dries? A towel. What belongs to you but other people use it more than you do? Your name.“My dad didn’t need any excuse. There was no radio in the truck so if we were going on a long journey, we would talk. He would encourage us to make our own jokes up about our family and our situation.O’Neill thrived with his dad’s encouragement and, as young as 10, he realised these skills could earn him an audience – and open new doors. “At weddings there are always lots of kids running around, so I would tell them stories to get them out the way. I got some money from the other parents for being a good boy and my mum took me to buy a transistor radio.” All invaluable experience for the job he does now – a professional storyteller, spending much of his time touring schools. While his childhood on the road was, says O’Neill, “fantastic – I was bought up with a huge sense of curiosity”, his school days were a different story, a cautionary tale of prejudice and exclusion. His curly hair may now be grey, but he has not forgotten what it feels like to be “the child who was always left out in school, who was put on a separate table because we were Travellers who ‘couldn’t read or write’, although I could read and write from the age of four.“We were too much hard work and wouldn’t be there for long enough to teach. So [the teachers] put us on a table with crayons.”Smartly dressed in a jacket and bright shirt (“People used to say Gypsies were dirty – so we were always told you have to be well turned out), he explains that these experiences are why he hopes that Roma, Gypsy and Traveller children will feel proud when they see his books. And the chance to see a positive reflection of a community that is often ignored or demonised. “[At school] we were told to draw our house, and when I drew the caravan I was told I was wrong. I never saw any books that reflected my culture positively.“It’s so important for children to see themselves reflected. If they are not represented in popular culture positively, they don’t exist – that’s how it can feel to children.”Given his treatment at school, it’s perhaps unsurprising that O’Neill left school at 13. But it hasn’t stopped him having an impressively varied career, taking in everything from building work to being a health campaigner. When his father died shortly after O’Neill’s first daughter was born, he founded the first ever men’s health week to try to encourage other men to take care of themselves. Three years ago, he was named a National Literacy Hero, after starting his work in schools. The last thing he would have imagined when he first told stories at a family wedding over 40 years ago. As he says, “Storytelling has taken me to places I never thought I would go.”• Yokki and the Parno Gry and Ossiri and the Bala Mengro by Richard O’Neill and Katharine Quarmby are published by Child’s Play, for £5.99 each.