Shakespeare wrote, “What’s in a name?” Like or loathe it, a name helps to define you. It gives you an identity and sense of belonging; your signature security blanket. By the age of three, I’d had three different first and surnames. These are my names and this is my story.My childhood sounds pretty idyllic. I grew up in the 1960s. Home was a 10-bedroom old manse in a picture perfect, leafy village on the west coast of Scotland. The sprawling garden, complete with lily pond and river running through it, was an adventure playground for my six siblings and me.We had our very own menagerie, including pet goats, Paul, George and Ringo (Mum wasn’t a big fan of John). My dad was the minister and Sunday school was held in our kitchen, everyone keeping toasty warm around the Rayburn. My mum was larger-than-life, a brilliant baker and passionate anti-vivisectionist who took me on marches the moment I could raise a placard. So far, so Swallows and Amazons, but things weren’t quite as straightforward as they seemed.Catherine Anne LindenbergIn 1961, I was born in a Glasgow mother and baby home, the result of a secret dance hall dalliance between a rebellious 17-year-old Jewish girl from Edinburgh and a black American airman. In Scottish working-class households, the stigma of being born outside of marriage hung heavy. My mixed race compounded their bewilderment and shame. My mother named me Catherine Anne Lindenberg.Then, surrendering to family pressure, she placed me for adoption. I don’t know if she accompanied me to the children’s home in the Borders where I was temporarily sent. I do know that she paid 30 shillings each week for my keep. I’ve never seen a photograph of myself as a baby. I don’t even know if any were taken.I’m pretty sure I was as cute and ready to be cooed over as the next child. But adopters were looking for blonde, blue-eyed bundles of joy. Not one with Afro hair and brown skin.I spent seven months at the home until the Rev Robertson and his wife came calling. They had five children of their own and had recently adopted a three-year-old British African girl. They decided I would be the perfect playmate for her. I was whisked off to the west coast and their rambling manse. I had a family at last.Esther RobertsonThe Robertsons reached for the Bible to find my new first name. In what I’ve always liked to imagine was a deliberate nod to my Jewish heritage, they chose Esther, an Old Testament Hebrew queen. I was fostered at first, but a faded letter in my file from a children’s welfare supervisor states that they were “hoping to be allowed to adopt the little coloured girl”.They got their wish and by the age of 14 months my adoption had been rubber stamped. But just when it seemed that I had found some sense of belonging, some security, there was an unexpected twist. By the age of two, the family were worried about my slow development. I’d only recently started to walk and when I did, I was severely knock-kneed. I showed no inclination to talk. Meanwhile, being the minister’s wife, running a chaotically busy manse and raising seven children was taking its toll on my mother. She was in poor health and struggling to cope. They decided that something had to go. That something was me.A year after my adoption, the Robertsons requested me to be rehomed on the grounds of my slow development and Mrs Robertson’s poor health. In July 1963, aged two and a half, I was given a new home and another new name.Doreen Ann Graham“Esther doesn’t like eggs.” These sparse but specific instructions were scrawled on the notes that accompanied me to my new home in Ayrshire. The Graham family changed my name to Doreen Ann and celebrated my arrival with a family holiday to Fife.I have no memories of my time with the Grahams. I was 25 before I even found out about this third name change and temporary new life. It was one of many surprises that blindsided me as I tried to unravel my past.The few scraps of correspondence I now have show that I thrived in Ayrshire and soon felt part of the family. My badly bashed confidence was beginning to recover – I was even eating eggs. After two months, the Grahams applied to adopt me. It was contested. The Robertsons had decided they wanted me back.In October 1963, the Grahams received a letter from the children’s welfare office. The writer said she knew how sorry they’d feel to part with me and appreciated how hard it would be to explain to the other children where I’d gone. In order “not to prolong the agony”, I would be collected in a week’s time. She asked if they could prepare little Doreen beforehand as it will “lessen the shock for her”. My third new life had lasted three short months. I was being packed up and passed on again.Esther RobertsonBack to the manse. Back to Esther Robertson. Around this time, my first real memories kick in. Our back garden was as big as the world to me. My legs were still causing problems and I had to wear braces, but it didn’t stop me having adventures with the animals around the house. Dad in his dog collar mowing the lawns, the smell of homemade scones for afternoon tea, the sound of car tyres crunching on the gravel of our tree-lined drive – this chapter of my childhood sounds storybook perfect. But under the surface lurked questions and doubts.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Esther Robertson as a young girl.I felt like an outsider. I felt different. My hair was certainly different. Hours were spent trying to brush, comb and cajole it, but it steadfastly refused to be tamed.On shopping trips with Mum, which I adored, she always introduced me the same way: “This is Esther, my adopted daughter.” Just one extra word, but it jarred. I was so different, it seemed, that I came with an explanation.School gave me a sense of security, although I rebelled against the rules and routine of my convent education. My mum, the minister’s wife, had surprised everyone by converting to Catholicism in her 60s. Each Sunday, we would accompany her to hear Dad’s sermon, then he would return the favour by joining Mum at mass.I had the choice of going to church or cooking Sunday dinner. By the age of 10, I was a great cook.My life has taken the road less travelled. It’s been quite a journey. For the most part, it’s been without a map, but then I’ve always been an off-road sort of person. I used my imagination to escape the constant upset and upheaval of my childhood. Creativity remains my weapon of choice.At 17, I left home and moved to a flat share in Edinburgh. With my new-found freedom, I dived feet first into the city’s dance scene. Clubbers became my new family. My blissed-up, shiny, happy constants. Many are still my closest friends today. Having been compelled to play so many different roles in my own life, drama college seemed a natural progression. I combined this with modelling and singing in a band. I even tried my hand at standup comedy. The kid with the crumpled confidence, the one who didn’t speak a word until she was five had finally found her voice.Those were fun times, but a career in the arts didn’t work out for me. I realised that a performer’s life is transitionary. Just like me as a kid, they always have a bag packed. I needed to put down solid roots. I’ve managed to do that and now, in my 50s, I’m happier than I’ve ever been.I’ve found my true vocation working as a carer. I like to think I can offer help and support to people who sometimes feel a bit scared and alone just like I did. I have also met my soul mate. She understands me more than anyone ever has. Together, we look forward to the future, not back at my past.