Yusuf Khan has a four-sentence formula for finding love. When he has a few minutes to himself, the recent graduate from Mumbai, India’s financial capital, opens up the dating app Tinder on his phone and swipes right a few times.'How can a girl become a taxi driver?': defying India's caste and gender taboos If the woman likes his profile, he sends her four instant messages in rapid succession: “Hey, how are you?” and “You look interesting” are followed by a joke based on her picture or one-line biography, and he finishes with “Do you wanna get a coffee or a drink?”“It’s an efficient way to meet girls,” he says. “But the key is to ask her out on a date very fast.”Khan is 24 – high time, according to his parents, he started looking for a wife. If he cannot fit women into his busy work schedule, they say, they can always start asking around friends and family for a suitable match. Khan does not tell his parents, but he goes on at least one new Tinder date every month. Despite pressure from the family, he is in no rush to marry. “Right now I’m dating just to enjoy myself. I like meeting new people, someone interesting, someone fun,” he says.In rapidly developing India, the process of finding love is in the midst of a revolution. Spurred by apps such as Tinder, Woo and TrulyMadly, the old tradition of arranged marriage is giving way to a new, westernised style of dating, where growing numbers of people are choosing to date for fun, without the end goal of marriage. Exposure to western culture has seen the gradual breakdown of the traditional Indian family; arranged marriages have become less formal; more people are choosing to live in separate homes to their parents or in-laws; and dating and sex out of wedlock are becoming increasingly common.Now young lovers trying to straddle the gap between their parents’ conservative ideas about marriage and the reality of finding love in modern India face a new challenge: the Indian government. India’s IT and telecommunications minister, Ravi Shankar Prasad, has sent an advisory note to the country’s myriad matrimonial websites asking service providers to make users sign a declaration saying that they have an intention to marry and are not using the website for any other purposes, such as dating.By doing so, the government has drawn an invisible line between those who want to date, and those who want to marry, as though the two groups are unrelated.Self-segregation between these two groups already exists. In the past decade, hundreds of matrimonial websites, such as shaadi.com, SimplyMarry or BharatMatrimony, have flourished. Unlike Tinder, or other dating apps that have a reputation for being hook-up platforms, these matrimonial sites draw people looking for lifelong partners. “It’s like a love-cum-arranged marriage,” says Yogita Suryavanshi, who found her husband on a dating website. “We met and three months later we got married.”In these speedy marriages, which often happen for financial reasons, or because of family pressure, people fall in love after the wedding rather than before it. “Before we got married, I wasn’t sure if I loved him,” Suryavanshi says. “It was like 50-50. Everything was opposite. I love Chinese food and he hates it. I’m quite western and he’s traditional. But opposites attract and now everyday I feel like I’m learning more about him, like there’s something new to discover.”The move to make the separation between dating and marriage more clear-cut is not surprising from India’s ruling Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata party, led by prime minister Narendra Modi. The party champions economic growth and material progress, but has always been traditionalist in its approach to matters of the heart.In 2014, members of the BJP’s youth wing vandalised a cafe in the southern state of Kerala where couples had been seen kissing in public. In response, thousands of Indians took part in a nationwide kissing protest. Kissing has always been taboo in India and the film censor board – headed by Pahlaj Nihalani, a vocal BJP supporter – has often asked for on-screen kisses or intimacy to be cut short or removed, most famously in the latest James Bond film.Pramod Bapat, a spokesman from the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the BJP’s ideological parent, explains his discomfort with modern dating. “When you see a couple kissing in public, naturally it makes everybody watching feel awkward. There is no need to exhibit. These things are so personal. They have sanctity. And if you tell me, ‘Well what about freedom of expression?’ then I’m sorry, but I don’t subscribe to it.”Sex, too, is kept in check by conservative-minded politicians. Oral and anal sex are banned – rendering gay sex virtually impossible. A ban on pornography was introduced last year, and public displays of affection could result in criminal charges under India’s vaguely written “obscenity” laws.But it’s individuals, rather than the state, who do most of the policing around sex and dating in India. Casual relationships are still uncommon and those who choose to date often have to deal with gossip, ostracism and moral judgment. Women, particularly, are considered promiscuous if they lose their virginity before marriage and are less likely to find a suitor if they have been seen with another man.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kissing in public is controversial in parts of Indian society. Photograph: Jihan Abdalla/Getty Images/Blend Images RMFor Khan, these conservative attitudes make dating extremely difficult. Like many young Indians, he lives with his parents. Telling them that he is going on a date is out of the question, let alone bringing the girl home if the date goes well. Sex has to happen in the back seat of a car or in a hotel room. “Most hotels won’t even let you take a room if you’re an unmarried couple,” he says. “So typically I have to go to a pretty good hotel. It is very expensive.”The logistics of dating are difficult, and opportunities to meet people are few. Taru Kapoor, head of Tinder India, says: “The urge to connect with other human beings is very natural. In India, it is particularly hard to meet someone outside your immediate social circle. You can meet someone at school or college or at work – and that’s pretty much it. Especially for women, you can’t really walk up to someone and say hello. It’s awkward.“Finding love is very difficult. Either you wait for it to happen, or you have to resign yourself to the idea that your parents will choose your marriage partner for you. There’s very little individual agency. Dating apps like Tinder give people more control over who they meet and who they date.”It’s not just India’s young millennials who are under pressure to conform to traditional morals around relationships. Ramesh Kakade’s first wife died after a road accident 12 years ago. “I was destroyed by it,” says Kakade, now 69. “I didn’t eat for days, I wanted to commit suicide.”Eventually, Kakade started dating an old friend from college, who helped him overcome his grief. “There were lots of fights in the family because of it,” he says. “People used tell me that I shouldn’t be dating someone at my age. My friends started calling me ‘hero’, to make fun.“In Indian culture there is no tradition of remarriage. I took permission from my daughters when I decided to marry her. When we got married, nine years ago now, the local newspapers and TV channels all covered it because it is so unusual in our society.”Kumar Deshpande, who started a lonely hearts club for older singles after his father-in-law lost his wife, says this is a huge problem for older people. “Children tell their parents that it is not OK for them to remarry,” he says. “We have many such people coming to us, asking for advice. So what will they do? They will be alone.”Kakade, who has attended some of Deshpande’s singles’ events, says: “Usually the older men come and they sit in the front. The women come and sit in the balcony – and they leave before the end.“The fact that they’re coming means that something is telling them to meet other people, but then they get scared and go away. My friends sometimes ask me how I went about remarrying. But they’re not daring enough to do it themselves. What can I do? Everyone’s afraid of what people will say.”Some names have been changed