The first time I played, my nerves were all over the place. I was in my third year at university. Both my flatmates at the time were American footballers, so I decided to join them. I remember seeing this massive person in front of me wearing these pads, and thinking, he’s going to kill me. I got tackled – hard. I was rattled. But then you realise, it’s just contact. You feel pain, he feels pain. You’re human, he’s human. I’ve been addicted since.The fundamental aim of the game is to score touchdowns (loosely the equivalent of a try in rugby) by running with the ball into, or receiving the ball inside, the opposition’s end zone. It’s 11-a-side, and every player on the field has a set responsibility. I’m a running back. It’s my job, using my speed, strength and agility, to carry the ball and keep running until either I score or I get put down by an opponent. And yes, it does hurt.I’ve broken two fingers and popped my shoulder, but the worst was when I trapped the ligaments in the back of my leg. I had to take a year out. But none of that put me off – all I could think was, how am I going to come back stronger? Besides training with the team, I now do my own gym sessions, to get fitter, faster, stronger. Your whole body needs to be ready to take contact.People think American football is aggressive. Don’t get me wrong, it can be, but there’s so much more to it. Every team has its own playbook, which outlines everyone’s role in a number of different scenarios. Last year, my playbook was 73 pages long. Words can’t describe how it feels when it all comes together on the field. It’s perfect.American football has changed my life for the better. I’ve learned time management, how to take responsibility for my actions, and how much I treasure being part of a team. Within the four lines of the field, it is physical. Emotions run high. If you’re on the opposing team, you are my enemy. But once the game is done, we’re like family.My weekend workoutYears played? Six.Most touchdowns scored in a game? Five or six, playing for my team, the Ouse Valley Eagles.Psych-up soundtrack? I like motivational speeches.Five ways to get started1 The younger you start, the higher you can go. Most people tend to pick it up in their early or mid-20s. But if you’re in decent condition, there’s nothing stopping you from taking it up at 35, even 40.2 The range of body shapes and sizes on an American football team is huge. We have people on our team who are 6ft 8in and 26 stone, and 5ft 6in and 9½ stone. The sport prides itself on its inclusivity.3 There are teams all the way from Inverness to Cornwall, and they all hold taster sessions for beginners. Look at britishamericanfootball.org, where you can search for clubs by postcode.4 If you’re going to a full-contact club, at some point someone is going to hit you, and it is going to hurt. There are opportunities for people who aren’t keen on that: “flag leagues” are the equivalent of touch rugby and a good way to enjoy the sport.5 Most clubs will be able to lend you all the kit you need, but if you’re going to play regularly, invest in a helmet. Someone else’s may not fit perfectly, and it’s not worth taking the risk.Neale McMaster, head coach of the Ouse Valley EaglesEssential kit      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Schutt XV Flex shoulder pads, £124.99, epsports.co.uk.Wilson NFL American football, £25, amazon.co.uk.Riddell Foundation helmet, £189, footballamerica.co.uk.