The health and safety inspectors are coming for contemporary art. This stuff is dangerous, people! All those spiralling slides, dodgy TV monitors reused by video artists, the installations made with who knows what flammable substances – they all have to go.Damien Hirst's preserved carcasses leaked formaldehyde gas, study claims A supposedly shocking report on the hidden dangers of modern art has been published. During Damien Hirst’s retrospective at Tate Modern in 2012, a team of researchers monitored his celebrated vitrines containing dead animals (and pieces thereof) and found: “The tanks are surrounded by formaldehyde fumes, constantly exuded in the atmosphere (likely via the sealant), reaching levels of 5ppm (parts per million), one order of magnitude higher than the 0.5ppm limit set up by legislation.” Before accepting this result at face value, let’s consider how it was obtained. The test was not carried out in collaboration with the gallery or the artist, who might have used such information to correct the problem. Instead, researchers at the Polytechnic University of Milan posed as members of the public while secretly using electronic wristbands and modified iPhones to monitor formaldehyde levels. They have published their research only now, four years later, in a journal of the Royal Society of Chemistry.What – or who – is this research for? The journal Analytical Methods is getting publicity for supposedly exposing Hirst and Tate Modern. And the implication? That modern art is getting away with slow, chemical murder, and we need to be more aware of the dangers. Fat chance. People visit galleries such as Tate Modern to be surprised and amazed by wild and crazy art. A bit of physical danger never put anyone off – it only adds to the thrill.When some visitors fell into the huge crack cut into the floor of Tate Modern’s Turbine Hall by Doris Salcedo in her 2007 artwork Shibboleth, it was not closed down. It became even better attended. People actually came along in the hope of falling in, only to find it was quite hard to do so. Safety fears did, however, cause problems for Ai Weiwei’s Sunflower Seeds at the same venue. But, even after the floor was roped off because of fears about toxic lead dust in the air, people still flocked to see the 100m porcelain seeds from the safety of the Turbine Hall bridge. No one was angry with Ai Weiwei for this mistake – on the contrary, his Tate installation helped make him a global star. The point is that we don’t expect caution, common sense or even technical competence from artists - we expect imagination. In a world of dull rules and miserable anxieties, art is a holiday, a carnival. It is the last great adventure of technocratic modern societies. Artists are allowed – no, they are expected – to break the rules, and that includes safety rules. No doubt there were very sensible inspections of Carsten Holler’s spiralling slides, but no one in the queue asked to see a safety certificate before taking the plunge. Nor did the deliberate rickety atmosphere of Banksy’s Dismaland put the crowds off its vaguely sinister rides. And if anyone did get a splinter they probably had a good laugh about it. We allow artists to endanger us, perhaps, because they are even more likely to endanger themselves. Paint can be poisonous and sculpture can kill: the French artist Aristide Maillol died in 1944 when his car crashed and he was crushed by a statue in the back. As 20th-century art became ever more experimental, the risks artists took got more spectacular: they have been shot and exposed to fire, and the conceptual artist Bas Jan Ader vanished in 1975 while trying to cross the Atlantic in a small sailing boat, as art.With all the risk and courage artists display, the least they can expect is a bit of guts from audiences in return. The truth is that a whiff of formaldehyde in the air can only add to art’s appeal. And now we can all say: I visited the Damien Hirst show in 2012 and lived to tell the tale.