How does a generation that has never truly grown up deal with turning 40? For Luella Bartley and Katie Hillier, the answer was obvious: set up a fashion label. Last year, when they were 42 and 41 respectively, they founded Hillier Bartley, making the clothes they felt no one else was making, for women who are fine with getting older (well, pretty much) but who most certainly do not consider themselves middle-aged. Fashion for the post-midlife crisis generation, let’s call it. Velvet tailoring in petrol blue; a floor-length hostess gown in mustard silk. Party clothes for women who don’t do party dresses. A little bit Alexa Chung, a little bit Florence Welch. (Both are customers.)When Bartley founded the Luella label in 1999, aged 25, with Hillier as her right-hand woman, their lives revolved around Shoreditch parties, late nights in Soho members’ clubs with Kate Moss, that sort of thing. Today, she and I are sitting in the garden of the Hillier Bartley studio, and things have changed. Green juice for her, flat white for me. “I got to 40 and thought I had to grow up,” she says. “This was my answer to that. This is something no one else is doing. Because the thing is, women don’t age in the same way any more. Our generation has women like Patti Smith to look up to. Getting older doesn’t mean what it used to.”At the Port Eliot festival in Cornwall this summer, Bartley went to a talk by Gloria Steinem. “She is 82, and how she looks just hasn’t changed. She still has the same style, the same mannerisms. I found that deeply inspiring, but it’s actually not easy to figure out how to do that. How to retain your identity while making a womanly progression from being a jeans and T-shirt girl.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Post-midlife crisis fashion: Hillier Bartley’s A/W 16 collection, frommatchesfashion.com.In many ways, Bartley and Hillier are the It girls who grew up. The Luella years were a riot of youthful energy, a celebration of teenage kicks: the first collection was called Daddy I Want A Pony; the second Daddy Who Were The Clash? Hillier’s career has been that of the ultimate fashion insider, putting her magic touch (but not her name) to It bags for Marc by Marc Jacobs, Victoria Beckham and Asprey, to name just a few. One of this season’s most striking trends is a motocross aesthetic (colourful motorcycle leathers) that was highly visible on the Paris catwalks; it’s a look that began with a collection Hillier and Bartley designed for Marc by Marc Jacobs two years ago. They have a knack for knowing which way the wind is blowing, which makes their unconventional design philosophy all the more compelling.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bartley and Hillier for Marc by Marc Jacobs A/W 14. Photograph: Thomas Concordia/WireImageThe Hillier Bartley story began one afternoon in 1999, when the stylist Katie Grand introduced them in a pub on Kings Road in London. Within a few hours they were friends; within a week, Hillier had come to work with Bartley. Luella won Bartley the Designer of the Year award in 2008, but being the hottest ticket in London ended – as being the hottest ticket in London often does – with closure in 2009 [after Bartley’s major Italian manufacturer went bust and the collection couldn’t be produced]. When the pair were announced four years later in new roles at Marc by Marc Jacobs, with Hillier as creative director and Bartley as design director, a cheer went up around the fashion world. They seem somehow meant to be, like Ross and Rachel, to reference a pairing of similar vintage.But it’s just me and Bartley today, soaking up the unseasonably glorious September sunshine, it having proved impossible to get the two in the same place at the same time: Bartley decamped from Bloomsbury to Cornwall for the summer, and by the time she was back in London, Hillier was in New York. Bartley’s hair is salt-bleached from the beach and she emanates the intensely laid-back vibe you can get only by spending two months by the sea, 300 miles from the city. The author of a book, Luella’s Guide To English Style, she began her career in fashion as a journalist, and her sentences are writerly, with thoughtful pauses. I spoke to Hillier on the phone in New York, for the same amount of time I spent with Bartley, but when I transcribed the call, it was twice as long, because Hillier talks and talks without drawing breath.The two friends now find themselves, at similar ages, living out very different scenarios. Bartley, who has three children (Kip, 13, Stevie, 11, and Ned, nine) with her partner, the fashion photographer David Sims, has recently moved back to London after a decade in Cornwall (“My wilderness years,” she sort-of jokes). “When we moved there, Luella was in full flow and the plan was that I’d commute. I mean, people in fashion do it between London and Paris. But Kip and Stevie were really young, then I had Ned, and after a while it felt like all I was ever doing was putting out fires, at work or at home.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   With Marc Jacobs. Photograph: Rex/ShutterstockMeanwhile, Hillier, whose eight-year relationship with menswear designer (and Great British Sewing Bee judge) Patrick Grant ended last year, is spending more time in the US, motivated in part by a new relationship in Seattle. “I love being in my 40s,” she says, “but it’s not like it hasn’t come with its hurdles. To be at the point I am – 42, with no children but not in a frame of mind where I definitely don’t want them – that has its challenges. When I was younger, I very much put my career to the forefront. I didn’t have children, and I never gave myself that breathing space from work. So even though doing our own label is a lot more work, weirdly it has allowed me to think about my own life, and what I want.”“Fashion,” Bartley says, “is more interesting than you think. Gender, ageing – these are big issues in our society, and fashion does have a hand in shifting things.” Their autumn 2016 collection was inspired by David Bowie (you can’t get through a conversation with either of these two without Bowie being mentioned), Brian Eno, Francis Bacon and Oscar Wilde. The idea is to capture in womenswear, Bartley says, “a rakish attitude that has before now seemed part of a rather male identity – louche, dashing, with a possibility of the disreputable”. In the traditional iconography, the cool girls are always young. Women over 35 can be either ladies or power dressers, both of whom are rather severe and serious. Or they can be pink-haired, crazy-old-ladies. Hillier Bartley offers a new paradigm – a grownup, confident individuality that is chic and sophisticated, rather than laughably eccentric.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘There’s something about a woman in a trouser suit that is really sexy’: Hillier Bartley A/W 16.Swagger is a word that comes up a lot with these two. “You can have swagger in jeans and an old T-shirt and a pair of heels,” Hillier says. “But as I get older, I am drawn to different things. I might wear the same thing now, but with a tux, you know?” Bartley says the character she has in mind when she designs “is someone very stylish but slightly dishevelled. Lucian Freud in a tuxedo scarf, but with paint all over him. That confidence and the slight suggestion of bad behaviour.”Bartley often makes these references to aristocratic style, but insists, “It’s not about class, it’s about confidence. That’s the part I want to take from that. The thing is, lots of things in English culture do cross over with class, whether that’s Savile Row or the football terraces. There are a lot of English traditions that are really seductive. Oh God, listen to me. Please don’t make me sound like Theresa May, will you?”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Very stylish but slightly dishevelled: muse David Bowie. Photograph: Brian Rasic/Getty ImagesThe day Hillier and Bartley decided to launch their label, they went to the park with a notebook, sandwiches and crisps, and talked for four hours. “It started out being about tailoring,” Hillier says. “Away from any feminist analysing, we just like the look,” Bartley says. “There’s something about a woman in a trouser suit that is really sexy.” Hillier designs the handbags, Bartley the clothes, but soon Hillier’s influence (she likes a dress) seeped into Bartley’s moodboard: “And now we do a lot of beautiful dresses. They are long, but ankle-length not gown-length, so you can wear them comfortably with flat shoes, and with pockets.” Sometimes they go into battle over ideas. “But that’s good,” Bartley insists, “because it means the things that you don’t fight for drop out of the collection, and those things probably weren’t strong enough to be there.”Neither of them is afraid to speak her mind (when David Cameron invited Bartley to 10 Downing Street, she wrote a letter telling him she couldn’t drink champagne there when she fundamentally disagreed with his policy on admitting refugees), which makes the adoring way each talks about the other even sweeter. “What’s nice,” Bartley says, “is that I’ve been the boss [at Luella], she’s been the boss [at Marc by Marc], and now we’re together, and it works whichever way round. If Katie can help you, she will. She’s just the most lovely, loyal, supportive person.”Hillier, meanwhile, says, “Luella inspires me. If I have an idea for something, she’s the person I really want to like that idea. Working with her gives me confidence.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Grownup individuality: Hillier Bartley A/W 16.When we meet, Bartley is wearing grey cords, battered brown leather loafers and a pale pink cotton shirt washed almost transparent. Unless you count her Ray-Ban Wayfarers, the only thing you could consider a status symbol is her emerald-green, monogrammed Smythson diary. But the loafers are by Crockett & Jones, whose Northampton-made shoes cost around £500; the shirt is by 45rpm, a below-the-radar Japanese brand whose shirts retail for £400. She doesn’t buy much, she says, but will invest in beautifully made pieces that last for ever. “I’ve had this shirt for, I don’t know, 10 years, 15 maybe? And these shoes…” We both look under the table at her shoes, which boast a truly impressive patina of scuff marks, and start laughing.Hillier Bartley is expensive, but “it’s the best fabrics, hand-finished”. The next stage for the label is to bring investment into a business that until now has been self-funded. Not that Bartley wants to return to the bombastic catwalk shows of her Luella days: “I loved our shows. I loved watching the character we had created come to life and walk down a catwalk, but that’s not us any more. And, actually, I think I prefer the way we are now.”