For more than 30 years the Feminist Library has had a home in Southwark, London; now we face eviction by the council. Seemingly, this is because the council wants to maximise profits at the expense of culture, history and community.The library collection was started by a group of volunteers in 1975 and documents the women’s liberation movement – not just in the UK but internationally – in all its inspiring, messy, complex glory. It inspires me every day to understand how women before us have come together to fight for social change, share knowledge, and support each other. Perhaps ​​the most important aspect of the library is reminding women how much we have gained and what we have to lose It’s a place where thousands feel at home and can come together to learn, organise and socialise. It’s a place for researchers to come and pore over the valuable items in our collection, where feminist writers, artists and musicians can share their work, and where members of the diverse local community are made welcome. We visit schools, offer affordable spaces for groups to meet, and host public events.But this one-of-a-kind library is now under threat from market forces. In December last year we were shocked to receive a notice increasing our rent and service charges from £12,000 to a total of £30,000 per annum. We wrote to Southwark council asking that they work with us to implement this increase gradually, giving us a chance to up our fundraising. They refused to negotiate or even meet with us, meaning that we were faced with eviction on 1 March – ironically the first day of Women’s History Month.In response we launched an emergency campaign, with a petition that received 15,000 signatures in its first week. Supporters gathered for a “read-in” – reading texts of feminist classics outside Southwark council’s budget-setting meeting. As a result, Southwark council gave us a six-month extension; we now have until the end of October to find a new home. The council has been forced to offer us some support – but they have made it clear this is help to leave, not help to stay, and that any tenancy they give us will treat us as commercial tenants, subject to market rent and with no protection against any increase this entails. The building itself was originally gifted by the GLC in 1984 to ethnic minority groups and those involved in anti-racism initiatives. It is now owned by Southwark council and is home to several small charities and organisations working for social change.Museums are too vital to be abandoned to free-market Tory dogma We are now calling on the council to respect women’s history and help the library find a new, affordable home. In February 2016 Southwark pledged to support the community and cultural heritage in their New Voluntary Sector Strategy. This paper “highlights the need for a thriving voluntary and community sector that mobilises community action and makes best use of community resources, skills, knowledge and spaces”. We cannot understand how their treatment of the Feminist Library is consistent with approving this report.The move by the council is part of a process of gentrification in the borough – notably with the nearby Elephant Park development and the destruction of the Heygate and Aylesbury estates – and in the wider city, where many other organisations have been forced out of their premises to make way for luxury flats, shops and bars.The current austerity regime with cuts to public and third-sector services has disproportionately affected women’s lives. Cuts to women’s services in the last few years have been monumental including, locally, the much-loved Lambeth Women’s Project, founded like us in 1975.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Feminist Library has over 7,000 books and 1,500 periodicals, documents and other ephemera. Photograph: Eva MegiasBut we are fighting back – holding a Summer Benefit and launching a friends’ scheme. We have also begun working with other organisations suffering the effects of gentrification to organise a London-wide programme of events under the banner Anti-Gentrification Month throughout July.We do feel that all this shouldn’t be necessary, though. A more forward-thinking council would understand the immense cultural benefits of the Feminist Library and would do its best to support and house us. We are an alternative tourist attraction, welcoming academics and students from all over Europe and beyond who make a special journey to visit us.Perhaps the most important aspect of the library is reminding women how much we have gained and what we have to lose. We are reminded daily that our hard won rights are not set in stone. They can be rescinded as the political climate changes, and we must be vigilant to protect them.Emma Thatcher is a volunteer at the Feminist Library and focuses on publicity and communications. For more information about the library’s fundraising efforts click here. Talk to us on Twitter via @Guardianpublic and sign up for your free weekly Guardian Public Leaders newsletter with news and analysis sent direct to you every Thursday.