Every year, Vanity Fair unveils its Hollywood issue, a starry affair shot by Annie Leibovitz that awkwardly assembles an array of A-listers in an attempt to showcase the state of the industry at that given moment. Actors are dolled up and strewn across each other in variously uncomfortable positions and, pre-Oscars, it gives us a chance to see which actors are at the forefront of the awards chatter. The choices made are often an important statement and previous issues have been contentious, as was the case with 2010’s all-white issue.Barack Obama on Oscars diversity: are we giving everyone a fair shot? This year it arrives at a sensitive time. We are in the middle of an awards season mired in controversy regarding a lack of diversity, which has in turn ignited a bigger conversation about unequal opportunities for actors of colour. The past 12 months have also shone light on an industry that still pays women less than their male counterparts, and offers few parts to actresses over the age of 50, with A-listers speaking out about their experiences.So it makes business and PR sense that this year’s issue, out on Friday, is all-female and features key placements for women of colour as well as older actors. The shoot traditionally takes up a three-page spread. This year’s choices are Jane Fonda, Cate Blanchett, Jennifer Lawrence and Viola Davis, marking the first time since 1999 that a black woman has appeared on the main cover and the first time ever for a black woman over the age of 30. In the extended image, she is joined by Lupita Nyong’o and Gugu Mbatha-Raw and, while it is refreshing to see diversity represented, the choices are also somewhat underwhelming.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Annie Leibovitz/Vanity FairFirstly, the past year has been a successful one for Davis, without doubt – but not within film. Her risible revenge thriller Lila & Eve and turn in Michael Mann’s flop Blackhat were forgettable, but it’s her work on the hit TV show How to Get Away with Murder that’s kept her in the spotlight. Her inclusion in a shoot that highlights film talent is an unintentionally damning reflection of how cinema is still lagging behind TV with respect to diversity. While Nyong’o was part of 2015’s biggest film Star Wars: The Force Awakens, her role was reduced to a motion-capture character and, despite winning an Oscar for 12 Years a Slave, the actor herself hasn’t been seen on screen for two years. Bi-racial British actor Mbatha-Raw is undoubtedly on the rise (anyone who saw her commanding turn in Beyond the Lights can certify her considerable talents) but a thankless role as Will Smith’s love interest in middling drama Concussion and a role in critically derided not-buster Jupiter Ascending are hardly signs of a banner year.Oscars diversity: academy to double female and minority members by 2020 The pool of commercially successful older actors is similarily, depressingly small. Fonda’s inclusion on the main cover is a notable coup but her one big screen turn of the year was a glorified one-scene cameo in Paolo Sorrentino’s Youth and, like Davis, she is now known more for her TV work in Netflix sitcom Grace and Frankie. Diane Keaton, who appears on the far right wearing her own clothes, had just one role in 2015: as the matriarch in forgettable festive comedy Christmas With the Coopers. Similarly, her next major turn is on the small screen, opposite Jude Law in the HBO drama The Young Pope. Oscar nominee Charlotte Rampling is a worthy inclusion, with her role in 45 Years among the year’s best, but that performance is the actor’s first notable big screen role for a while, with her TV work in Broadchurch and London Spy dominating.Helen Mirren remains an exception, rather like Meryl Streep, as she continues to find roles in film, after a year that saw her with two SAG nominations, for Woman in Gold and Trumbo.All the fun of the Vanity Fair cover and the Pope plays himself - the Dailies film podcast So, while the shoot gives the impression of diversity, it’s another telling sign of an industry that still favours young white women. Jennifer Lawrence’s year has seen her take the lead in a $651m blockbuster and pick up an Oscar nomination, while rising star Alicia Vikander has appeared in six films, and also received an Oscar nod. Vanity Fair has made a bold attempt to highlight a diverse range of actors, but the fact remains that no woman of colour is being given the opportunities that her white peers are handed, at least not on the big screen. And there’s no amount of crisply shot and finely Photoshopped designer dresses that can hide that.See the full shoot in the March Hollywood issue of Vanity Fair, on sale Friday