Hurray! Summer is finally here and with it comes the best ever choice of women’s cycling gear. I’ve been testing a load of kit for the past few months in my native Manchester, plus sneaking off to Mallorca with my club to test the wicking properties of various jerseys and seeing which chamois offer best protection to my delicate bits. Here are my favourites:Best jersey: Hackney GT £75      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hackney GT Beastway front and back £60 Photograph: Hackney GTI love this cheery jersey, by new London-based company, Hackney GT. The slogan is a conversation starter, the pockets are roomy, the fabric breathable, the zip full and it doesn’t show the dirt. Yes, it’s not tremendously cheap, but they make their stuff in Britain rather than a far east sweatshop, so you’re helping pay a UK seamstress properly.Buy here for £60Honorable mention for Chapeau’s Madeleine range.Best bib shorts: dhb      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   dhb Aeron bib shots with a clip (left) and halter neck (right) £65 Photograph: dhbI’ve tried so many pairs of shorts this summer already and dhb’s 2016 Aeron range is better than Rapha and Assos. These two designs solve the age-old toilet problem for the bib-shorted lady cyclist, allowing the wearer to go to the loo without having to take her jersey off. I preferred the halterneck for really easy access, but the clip design suited a much taller teammate (lanky ladies may feel garrotted by the halterneck, but I’m only 5’4 and the 12 fit like a dream). Both are cut quite long, which I found quite flattering. The chamois is great too.Buy here for £65.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Oakley EVZero path prism road sunglasses £140 Photograph: OakleyBest sunglasses: Oakley ZeroEVI was very sceptical about expensive sunglasses, knowing how many pairs have fallen out of my helmet on a cloudy descent when I’ve tried to slot them in the ventilation gaps. It’s one thing sacrificing a £5 pair from TK Maxx to the Tarmac, another thing losing some £140 Oakleys. So are they worth the price? If you ride a lot in sunny weather: yes. They are crazily light, super comfortable, wrap right around to keep out sun rays, flies and dust and stayed put through very long, very sweaty rides. The prism lenses make the sky bluer, the grass greener and other cyclists that bit sexier. The only downside is you can’t switch the lenses.Buy here for £140Best socks: Primal      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Primal Get In Shape Socks £7 Photograph: PrimalI’m not convinced you really need cycling specific socks, but these lightweight delights are great fun for summer, and have kept my sweaty feet dry in the hottest weather.Buy here for £7Best cycling cap: This is Cambridge      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Helen Pidd modelling her This is Cambridge grimpeur (Cols) cap £24.50 Photograph: Helen Pidd for the GuardianI love pretty much everything This is Cambridge sells, but their caps, handmade in England, are pretty special. The lightweight Grimpeur with a big peak is designed for hotter conditions, and served me very well on a very hot ride in the Yorkshire Dales on Sunday, keeping the sweat out of my eyes without becoming wet and heavy. It’s been in the normal wash a few times already and looks as good as new.Buy here for £24.50