It is possible to have qualms about #OscarsSoWhite, admirable as the movement seems. Such misgivings revolve around the retrospective fate of the film that won best picture in 2014, the year before the backlash happened.My favorite best picture Oscar winner: Annie Hall Steve McQueen’s real-life story of Solomon Northup, a freeman kidnapped and sold into slavery in 19th-century Louisiana, took the top prize in the strongest year in recent memory. Its main rival was Gravity; hot on their heels were Nebraska, Her, American Hustle, Dallas Buyers Club, Philomena, Captain Phillips and The Wolf of Wall Street. Had the Academy opted elsewhere for its biggest honour then the idea that its voters are endemically racist would be easy to swallow. But they didn’t. They got it right. Sure, they should have also rewarded McQueen as director, and leading actor Chiwetel Ejiofor, but at least they did recognise Lupita Nyong’o for supporting actress and John Ridley’s adapted screenplay.The concern is that this best picture win might get muddied in hindsight. And the idea that it would be attributed to anything other than quality sticks horrifically in the throat. For 12 Years a Slave is the defining film of the century so far, less for what it says than for the power it packs and the genius of its delivery. McQueen’s most conventional film yet, it’s nonetheless full of the sort of inspired visual grace notes familiar to fans of his other work: a burnt piece of paper in the pitch-black night, its embers dying like shrinking larvae; pieces of cloth being rolled back like a sardine tin, to reveal slaves stacked for transit on a cargo ship.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Steve McQueen on 12 Years a Slave: ‘There’ve been more films about Roman slavery than American’It’s a film that exudes all of the dignity, impatience and artistic fidelity of its director: it is perfectly cast and paced, endlessly surprising, uncompromising and compassionate. It never descends into cliche or even self-pity; it remains a film for adults, uninterested in anything but the truth. To read Northup’s 1853 memoir is to be astonished by how closely the film follows it – in fact, if anything, it tones down the drama close to the end, when the sympathetic carpenter played by Brad Pitt forever tries and fails to secure Northup’s release. I was lucky enough to see the film at one of its first screenings, at the Toronto film festival, the autumn before its Oscar win. I don’t think I’ve ever been so struck by the absolute beauty and devastation of a film. Said Pitt, who also produced, at the Q&A afterwards: “If I never get to participate in a film again, this is it for me.” If I never see a film better, that’s fine by me, too. My favorite best picture Oscar winner: Gentleman's Agreement And that is also why some of the ancillary, unwelcome effects of #OscarsSoWhite sit so uncomfortably on the tail of this best picture win. The contender which most consciously apes Slave is The Birth of a Nation, Nate Parker’s tale of an uprising which opened to a standing ovation before it had even started at Sundance last year, before getting caught in a quagmire of awful revelations and belated critical evaluations. The Birth of a Nation is, by itself, a nightmarish watch; in comparison with this, it is an abomination. When dealing with subjects as important as slavery, history has to be respected, intelligence and taste exerted, someone with a considerable brain at the wheel. Parker is a vainglorious nitwit; McQueen the most formidable film-maker working today. To call anything your favourite feels strange if you’re 37 and writing about a film which features beatings that really happened, beatings dreadful enough to have prompted walkouts. But if a favourite is the film you’d return to most often in a list, the film you esteem the highest, the film you feel attached enough to that any hint of traducing wounds you personally, then Slave is it. 