“Without me there wouldn’t be any Paramount Studios,” declares Gloria Swanson as Norma Desmond in Billy Wilder’s black comedy Sunset Boulevard (1950). Former silent film star Desmond may be mad, but there is a grain of truth in what she says: Swanson was one of Paramount’s biggest stars even back when it was called Famous Players-Lasky, just as we are told Desmond was too. While Sunset Boulevard appears to attack the pretentions and excesses of the silent era, in fact its argument about the bad old days of Hollywood is more complicated than that. The horror at the heart of the film is that, as the studio system was starting to crumble, the beginnings of the industry were coming back to haunt it. Desmond’s pride mocks the fall of Hollywood just as it was teetering, rocked by the antitrust laws, the coming of TV and the communist witch-hunts.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Sunset Boulevard trailerClara Bow: the hard-partying jazz-baby airbrushed from Hollywood history Desmond lives in dusty seclusion on the aptly named Sunset Boulevard, with her butler Max (Erich von Stroheim), until a young screenwriter, Joe Gillis (William Holden) stumbles across her house one day. She ensnares him to become her script editor as well as her lover, until, as we already know thanks to a flash-forward at the film’s opening, he will meet a violent end. Although he will ultimately be her victim, Gillis initially feels pity for Desmond, “still proudly waving to a parade which has long since passed her by”. He compares her house to Miss Havisham, “given the go-by”, and clearly thinks Desmond has been rejected too. Perhaps he is projecting his own recent lack of success, but he is right that Desmond is deluded about the scale of her fame (the fan letters she receives are fake) and her importance to the modern movie industry (whatever she thinks, Cecil B DeMille is not waiting for her call). Her eccentric behaviour, her unwieldy plans for an epic comeback project (“I hate that word!”) and unstable mental health contrast with the brisk and breezy behaviour of Gillis and his young pals. They live cheaply and crack wise about the industry, seemingly cynical and smart enough not to be fooled by it. Crucially, however, the film industry in Sunset Boulevard is shown to be on its last legs. Paramount producer Sheldrake is ill with stress; Gillis is broke and only one rejection letter away from quitting show-business for “a copy-desk in Dayton, Ohio”; his friend Artie is stuck on a disastrous shoot in Arizona; Betty the script-reader is optimistic that she can make films that matter, but even she has been through the mill, rejected as a wannabe starlet, with the rhinoplasty scars to prove it.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Still causing a ripples of excitement ... Gloria Swanson as Norma Desmond in Sunset Boulevard Photograph: C.Everett Collection/Rex FeaturesMeanwhile, at 10086 Sunset Boulevard, in Desmond’s mad mansion, there is always champagne and caviar to hand, and enough money to cater to her every whim and to turn Gillis into a kept man. Paramount and DeMille may not wish to make her extravagant Salomé film, but it is feasible that Desmond, with her funds, could produce it herself. After all she has hired a writer, she already employs a director (Max) and in the film’s final seconds, her palatial home becomes – at least in her mind – a movie set. Even if all Paramount can supply that day are the compact cameras used for shooting TV newsreels. For all its humour, Sunset Boulevard is a bitter and queasy film, and the figure of Desmond is its greatest grotesque, a woman of 50 striving to be 25, surrounded by images of herself and entranced by her own face on a cinema screen. It should go without saying, of course, that Swanson was no Norma Desmond. The character of Desmond borrows some biographical details from Swanson: she too worked with DeMille and Von Stroheim (it’s their 1928 Queen Kelly on the cinema screen) and Swanson recreates her Chaplin impersonation from Manhandled (1924). Swanson made a successful transition into the talkies, and then went on to be a successful business woman, remaining a very public figure. She had been a great beauty and clothes horse as a young woman – and her devotion to healthy eating and high fashion kept her chic and active to the end of her life. Her career was long, too: she first appeared on film as a teenager in 1914; she was precisely 50 years old when she gave her tremendous performance in Sunset Boulevard, and she lived until she was 84. The most telling difference between Desmond and Swanson is that it was Swanson who left Paramount, not the other way round. She turned her back on the studio where she had had her greatest successes, to sign with United Artists and take control of her own career, selecting and producing her own films. Swanson was a big shot, not an ingénue, who made films and career choices that marked her out as a modern woman, frank by the standards of the day about sexuality and married life. Her first hits were brisk sex comedies directed by DeMille such as Don’t Change Your Husband (1919) and Male and Female (1919). By 1928 she was courting controversy with her passion project (“my Gold Rush”) Sadie Thompson (1928), a steamy Somerset Maugham adaptation directed by Raoul Walsh, in which she plays a prostitute. Mary Pickford: America's first screen megastar The point is that the crumbling Hollywood of Sunset Boulevard is built on the silent era: the houses and studios that “crazy movie people built in the crazy 20s”. Betty’s family is a cinema dynasty because “Grandma did stunt work for Pearl White”; Gillis dismisses Desmond’s fame but he can name all her co-stars and friends from Mabel Normand to Valentino and Rod La Roque; even Desmond’s “waxwork” bridge companions each earn themselves a close-up (and Buster Keaton’s is, of course, especially memorable). Sunset Boulevard is twice as chilling a film when you realise that Desmond made Paramount Studios a success, rather than the other way around. The faltering movie business was built not on fragile foundations of an art form doomed to obsolence, but on stronger, more ambitious grounds than it occupied in 1950. Norma Desmond still causes a ripple of excitement when she enters the soundstage. After all, she is big – it’s the pictures that got small.• Sunset Boulevard screens at Somerset House on 7 August as part of the Film4 Summer Screen season. Before the screening, you can join Isabel Stevens and me for a talk on female power-players of Hollywood, including Swanson. Tickets are available here.• This is the final instalment of Silent but deadly! Thank you for all your great conversation in the comment threads, and if you want to read more from me on silent cinema, visit silentlondon.co.uk and follow @silentlondon on Twitter. 