Drones have a bad reputation. The first we heard of them, they were flying unmanned missions to kill not necessarily the right targets in the name of freedom. Next, they were going to replace Amazon delivery drivers, severing permanently the company’s relationship with human beings.This week, Nigel Wilson, 42, was fined £1,800 for flying a drone dangerously close to sports grounds and Buckingham Palace . It also emerged that drones were being used to fly contraband drugs into prisons. (“It’s complicated,” a prison governor tells me off the record. “The drugs are often legal. And the drones are legal. The only illegal thing they’ve done is fly over a prison.”)But amid all the stories, the people you haven’t met are the dronesters. Disregarding the military, there are three categories of people using drones – commercial, hobbyists and consumers – says Adam Sculthorp, 37, a droning professional. “You’ve got your commercial operators; we are regulated by the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), and hold what’s known as permission for aerial work. Then you’ve got your hobbyist – if you go back four or five years, you couldn’t just go to Maplin and buy a drone. You had to build it. So there was a very high skill level … And now there’s been a huge explosion of people who we would term consumer.”It’s a world turned upside down, in which the commercial lot either started as, or are not as good as, hobbyists. “It’s caught a lot of people off guard,” says Angus Benson-Blair, the 44-year-old chairman of Arpas, the trade body for the remotely piloted world. “In particular, the likes of Boeing, I think they thought they’d be starting the industry off – and it’s actually coming from the hobby world.” The geeks, finally, have reclaimed a word; hobbyist means expert in this field. Professional means “probably started as a hobbyist”.The gateway drone-drug, for most, is a mini remote-controlled helicopter that you buy someone as a gift when you’ve exhausted all their needs and wants. “My wife bought me a little indoor helicopter for my birthday,” says Benson-Blair, “and it kept growing and having babies.” Tom Patterson, 29, who works with Sculthorp, had the same trajectory. “I got to the point where I would either spend a horrific amount of money on an even better helicopter, or looked into the drone side of things,” he says. “So I looked into the whole DIY kit, buying the controller circuit boards and the motors and started fiddling around. I’d say it was a progression from Lego. And they’re quite easy to fly, it wasn’t because they were fun to fly, it was because they were fun to build.”Benson-Blair used to be a tank commander in the army; I don’t know if that’s really relevant to his intense interest in remotely piloted flights, but it feels relevant. He is, technically, the safest drone operator in the UK; or at least, he’s the only person with a license to fly an aircraft of up to 20kg within 10 metres of the public. “Because of my hobby days, I’ve got a very in-depth knowledge: because of my bespoke drone and my flying skills, I put a very detailed safety case to the CAA.” Are they as geeky as you? “They are much more geeky than me, and there were three of them.” The rules around drone operation seem both detailed and slightly ad hoc – the height you can go, for instance, is measured in feet, where the radius from habitation is in metres. There are rules about weather (you can’t fly them in the rain, or above certain wind speeds); and rules about how far from your drone you’re allowed to be. “We’ve got aircraft that are 2 metres in diameter – and at 500 metres away, that would be a pinprick,” says Sculthorp. Commercial flyers, who grow more numerous all the time – there were 200 licenses a year ago and 1,200 now – are plainly aware of this, while the hobbyists are probably right this minute figuring out ways to make things even safer – for instance, by introducing spare engines for emergencies (the amount of redundancy in the system is what gives them confidence in it, apparently). But consumers, like the riders of “Boris bikes”, are not necessarily doing anything wrong, they’re just making it look more dangerous than it is. “My gut feeling,” said Benson-Blair, “is that the consumer market has peaked. I think they’ve realised that there’s only so much fun you can have by sticking a camera up in the air when you don’t know what you’re doing.”