Conversations about the advancement of women at work are now so commonplace that it can seem like a foregone conclusion that, someday soon, women will have equal opportunities and pay.But then you start wading through the comments under news articles on gender diversity and you realise there is a very angry, resentful undertow from some (mostly men) who demonstrate a fear that when women win, men and families will lose.Women’s empowerment advocate Julie McKay acknowledges the diversity movement hasn’t always argued its case well – especially when it comes to that section of the community that fears it is being victimised and left behind. “We say things like ‘diversity is good for business’ and we, accidentally, move on and talk about other things – having mistakenly thought everyone in the room agrees with us,” says McKay, the former executive director of UN Women Australia, who starts a new job as lead partner for diversity and inclusion at PwC when she finishes her parental leave in February 2017.McKay says the people who actively resist diversity probably don’t have all the information. “They have either been shut out of the conversation or told their views are stupid or not valued. And so they haven’t been part of an education process on what diversity is all about and why.” Paul Zahra: 'The higher up the ASX 200, the more important diversity is' The data on the business case for diversity is widely available and so anyone with career ambitions should know they will be more successful if they surround themselves with teams that represent a cross section of society, says McKay. “There is no evidence that maintaining the status quo of having a male-dominated, un-diverse team is better.” It is a failure of many businesses that they have underinvested in preparing their staff for the massive societal and workplace changes that come with sharing jobs and power with women, she says. If they were overhauling an IT system or relocating an office, teams of change management experts would be consulted to smooth the way.Yet those same organisations implement diversity policies with no support system or training in place for the people who fear they may be displaced. And, when those people resist, some of those leaders get a little gun-shy.“What I see from a lot of leaders is that they come out with these bold statements around diversity and inclusion and announce programs and they get a huge backlash,” she says.When they hear from staff they don’t want it, or get pushback from those worried about being seen as “token” appointments, the leaders start to falter. “What I tell leaders is: actually, if you are not getting any resistance, you are not doing anything effective.“In Australia, we have seen a bit of the bold splash … and then the retreat,” McKay says.  Diversity in mining: 'He thought women should be barefoot, pregnant and in the kitchen' Another misstep by employers is to focus on “fixing” the people who have formerly been excluded, rather than the incumbents, says McKay.  This would include offering things such as assertiveness training for women in a male-dominated environment without offering inclusiveness training for the men around them.“There was a fantastic example in the Swedish armed forces, where they got their whole budget that they used to spend on women and other diverse groups and they cut all the programs,” she says, referring to her Churchill Fellowship Report, Exploring effective strategies to engage women in leadership roles in non-traditional sectors.“They were not going to do any mentoring or fixing-women conferences. They invested it in a major cultural change program for their men about how they would need to behave and lead and operate with a diverse workforce.“And they saw a huge change in the way men felt about diversity and inclusion.” McKay has spent the past three years as gender advisor to the chief of the Australian Defence Force and says she has witnessed diversity-resisters change their views when they have the right information and feedback from their teams.She says she’s had tough conversations with those who disagreed with her view of the role of women in combat or in operational leadership, but has had success shifting their mindsets. “Some of the biggest supporters now of the [gender inclusion] work Defence is doing are people who openly say that three or five years ago, they weren’t even aware that there was a problem.“It wasn’t that they were particularly negative, they just had no idea that [gender discrimination] was even an issue. They might have been resistant initially, but are now proponents and actively supporting people and mentoring [women] to rise up through the ranks.”In her new role at PwC, she will be in charge of the firm’s diversity and inclusion advisory business. McKay says she will be helping employers to convert their diversity sceptics.“We have to spend a lot more time talking to men about what it actually means in practice and what the society that we are actually imagining looks like and what will that mean for them, personally, and for their families and daughters,” she says.In the commonly “binary” arguments about women and work, it is rare to hear about what men gain when the financial future of their family no longer rests solely on their shoulders and they can spend more time caring for the people they love. McKay says that should change. “When we talk about what the benefits are, it is more than just work. It is actually life. Diversity does enable men and women to live differently and that is good for both,” says McKay.“It is not a win-lose situation.”