Pumpkins carved into the gurning visage of Donald Trump. Giant pumpkins strapped up and hoisted onto trucks to be transported to compete against similarly gargantuan squash. Pumpkins used as plant pots; halloween lanterns, even boats. Animals in zoos chomping on whole pumpkins. Not to mention a whole raft of food and drink products jumping on the pumpkin bandwagon (what is pumpkin spice, anyway?); only some of which actually contain any actual pumpkin.Halloween is nearly here, and we are reaching peak pumpkin.In Asda in the UK, pumpkins are selling for £1 each right now. Anyone who has ever tried to grow a pumpkin may feel disheartened that they could have just bought one for less than the price of a beer. But the beauty of growing your own is that you can raise varieties you never see in the shops, many with specific uses in mind; you know where and how they have been produced, and what’s gone into growing them. Whether homegrown or shop-bought, it makes my heart sink to think of all the pumpkins displayed on doorsteps and in windows that will end up in landfill rather than on a dinner plate, or even the compost heap. According to the food-sharing app Olio, more than 18,000 tonnes of pumpkin waste ends up in UK bins every year. But enough of this pumpkin-related pessimism. it doesn’t have to be this way. Horticulturist Sara Venn blogged about the issue of pumpkin waste recently, offering a raft of recipes for turning flesh from carved pumpkins into jam, scones, brownies, soup and more. There are also pumpkin recipes galore right here at the Guardian. If you can, buy a locally-grown pumpkin this year: bigbarn.co.uk is a good way to find a supplier. And now’s the time to start researching the best varieties to invest in seed for your homegrown squash harvest next year. See below for a roundup of some of my favourite pumpkin varieties... Pumpkin picksLesson one in pumpkin growing is this: don’t limit yourself. There are many forms of squash, and the pumpkins bred for lanterns are often less tasty. The difference? Not all squash are pumpkins, but all pumpkins are squash (as is generally true in life, it’s actually more complicated than that - for a more detailed explanation, read this). Here are a few of my favourites.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Pink Banana’ squash is a South American native. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoI first came across ‘Pink Banana’ squash via the Heritage Seed Library, and grew it on my allotment with great success. It’s a zeppelin-shaped squash that originated in South America, with very tasty, dense flesh, similar to a butternut squash. It’s adaptable, being suitable for use in the summer as a summer squash, or saved for use in autumn or winter as a winter squash. I haven’t tried it yet, but the seed geeks at the Real Seed Catalogue rate its sister variety ‘Blue Banana’ even more highly.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Heirloom pumpkin ‘Rouge Vif D’etampes’. Photograph: work by Lisa Kling/Getty ImagesI have a soft spot for ‘Rouge Vif D’Etampes’ because it was the first pumpkin I ever grew. This is the variety that is always referred to as the inspiration for the fiary godmother’s magical transformation of pumpkin into coach in the Cinderella story, and it’s even marketed as “the Cinderella pumpkin” in some seed catalogues. Its deep orange-red skin (rouge vif meaning bright red) and flattened shape make it a good pumpkin for carving, and it’s reasonably tasty too. Each fruit usually weighs between 4kg and 10kg, and you can expect two to five per plant.If you don’t want to end up with too much in the way of pumpkin flesh leftovers, mini pumpkin ‘Jack Be Little’ is perfect. Franchi Seeds sells a white version called ‘Small Baby Boo’, too. Uchiki Kuri is well suited to climbing, with smallish, onion-shaped fruits and small leaves, so you can grow it up frames or trellises if space is short. This type of squash is the kabocha or Japanese pumpkin: it stores extremely well and is also one of Guardian columnist Alys Fowler’s favourites.If pumpkin seeds are your thing, you need to grow ‘Lady Godiva’. This pumpkin, if picked at the right time, has “naked” or hull-less seed that you can eat either raw or roasted, avoiding the tedious processing usually required to grow your own edible pumpkin seed. The only UK seller of the seeds I am aware of is The Organic Gardening Catalogue.If you want a good pumpkin for carving into jack-o’-lanterns, try ‘Jack of All Trades’ from Thomson & Morgan or ‘Winter Luxury’ from Real Seeds.Finally, if you love butternut squash but find it hard to get them to ripen before the first frosts hit, try the improved, early butternut ‘Waltham’: Real Seeds stock this one. Another plus is that it has a smaller seed cavity so there’s less waste.