Beyoncé is suing Feyoncé – a brand that uses a tweak on her name, plus associated phrases such as Single Ladies-ish “He put a ring on it” on leotards, cups and T-shirts. This news is hardly surprising given the level of creative control for which the singer is notorious, and the fact that she has her own line of merchandise, not to mention upcoming label Ivy Park. But it does, perhaps, show that Parkwood Entertainment’s attitude is different to fashion when it comes to bootlegs, homages and parodies. You’ve heard it before, but the old adage is being dusted off – right now, imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Vetememes take on Vetements.In 2016, where Vetements leads, fashion follows. When a jacket based on one of the brand’s designs – a black mac with the word “Vetements” changed to “Vetememes” – went viral, the brand responded. Last week, creative director Demna Gvasalia told the New York Times there will be no lawsuit for the parody brand’s creator Davil Tran. In fact, Gvasalia wished him well, saying Vetements hopes “that he has enjoyed making his project as much as we do making our clothes”.Gvasalia’s reaction was applauded – mostly by Tran, a self-described “dumb kid” probably bracing himself for a lawsuit while hiding under the covers in his bedroom at his parents’ house. But also by the wider fashion community. After all, it would be a tough sell for Gvasalia to argue against Vetememes since Vetements is itself a master of logo play. It’s DHL T-shirt using the delivery company’s logo was worn on the catwalk and has become the cult item of the season. The brand has also reworked logos from Champion, and ripped the poster for Titanic for a sweatshirt. Arguably, the Vetements jacket in question plays on the ones security guards wear at stadium concerts.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Vetements’ Titanic sweatshirt.Gvasalia is a designer steeped in the world of contemporary youth culture. A generation that sees pop art as classic will immediately get the out-of-context irony of wearing something so everyday as the logo of a delivery brand on the catwalk, and charging £185 for it. But they also love Instagrammable LOLs, and that’s where Tran’s appropriately named Vetememes comes in. If reworking of logos and brand names has been on market stalls for years (see Enjoy Cocaine in the Coca-Cola style, Adihash or the particularly icky iPood), the past 10 years has seen this idea come to high fashion brands in earnest. Brian Lichtenberg, the LA designer behind Homiés (Hermès) and Feline (Céline) started it in 2006 when he produced a “Brianel” T-shirt using a logo similar to Chanel’s. Now his brand is established and there are others with the same bent, notably SSUR’s Comme des Fuckdown street take on Japanese label Comme des Garçons logo.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Brian Lichtenberg Homies sweatshirt, this time transplanted to Brooklyn.These items are worn by supermodels and rappers, the Kardashians, Girls Aloud, Usain Bolt. They’re popular because, in a world where all images are screengrabbable, there are no rules – everything is there to be remixed into something else. See putting a swearword into the name of a brand associated with proper avant-grade fashion or, in the case of Hermès, adding the words “South Central” – LA’s notorious gang area – to a logo similar to one of the most rarified Parisian houses. There’s something a bit punky and rebellious here but in a silly way, like a teenager acting out to get your attention. Crucially, though, these visual puns also imply that you know your brands. You have to get the joke.  A Comme des Fuckdown baseball hat.Lichtenberg has been accepted by the fashion industry and sold alongside the real brands on Net-a-Porter and Browns. He has been left alone by Hermès, which is probably far too busy selling Birkins for lots of money to worry about un petit américain. In a statement to WWD in 2013, Hermès said it respected “freedom of artistic expression”. In the same article, Joseph Gioconda, an attorney who has represented Hermès, said different brands view such hijinks in different ways, implying that Hermès falls into the camp that seea it as “a relatively inconsequential act with no direct threat to its commercial value”. In other words, the ladies shopping in Rue du Faubourg Saint-Honoré are unlikely to be troubled by such trifles as sweatshirts. Comme des Garçons’ Adrian Joffe, meanwhile, is positively enthusiastic about his brand’s parody. “It doesn’t bother us at all, it’s really funny,” he said in 2012. “I’ve only seen it on really cool people.”Other designer brands have been less able to see the funny side. Saint Laurent sued the designers of the “Aint’ Laurent Without Yves” T-shirts, which uses a similar font to the Saint Laurent logo, and banned Parisian boutique Colette from its shows due to the store stocking the T-shirt. Louis Vuitton was recently involved in a suit against a brand called My Other Bag, which uses a pattern similar to theirs with MOB printed as opposed to LV. But it looks as if courts are increasingly coming down on the side of Gvasalia and Hermès-style graciousness. Earlier this year, Judge Jesse M Furman denied the French house’s motion for summary judgment, with a report stating: “In some cases, it is better to accept the implied compliment in [a] parody and to smile or laugh than it is to sue.”  Brian Lichtenberg’s meta T-shirt: DHL becomes FML.Of course, the wrangles between the real thing and these imitations and homages will roll in fashion, in a sort of endless tennis match. Gvasalia’s patience may even be tested by the latest serve from the delinquent side. In what can only be described as a truly meta twist, Lichtenberg has produced a T-shirt using the DHL logo used by Vetements, but with the three letters changed to FML – Generation Y for Fuck My Life. The ball is now in high fashion’s court. 