Perry King takes a break from cleaning windows in the seaside resort of Sidmouth. “Some of the seagulls do look fat,” he muses. “You look at them and think, that’s a chip bird.”In this part of East Devon, however, the days of seagulls surviving on a diet of chips, doughnuts, ice-cream and pasties may be coming to an end. Last week the district council became the first in the country to attempt to control the birds’ fondness for junk food through financial sanction. Anyone found deliberately feeding the seagulls in five Devon seaside towns can now be fined £80 under a public spaces protection order.On a breezy, overcast Friday morning, the seagulls did not seem to be aware of the imminent change in their dietary provision.“Look, that one there is on its hunting perch,” says King. As soon as he points at the seagull, it swoops down from the top of a lamppost on the seafront and plucks the ice-cream from the hand of an unsuspecting holidaymaker. King gives a running commentary. “The others are following – that’s what they do, they hunt in packs.”GPS tags reveal the secret life of urban seagulls Sue Peters, visiting the town with her husband, had an encounter with a hungry seagull last year that sounds like an outtake from Alfred Hitchcock’s film The Birds. “I was having an ice-cream when a seagull swooped down and tried to take it from my hand. I shielded it with my back and went down the street, away from the front, to try to get away but it followed me and flew into my back, hitting me. I stumbled forwards and dropped the ice cream. So I thought, ‘Well if I’m not having it, you’re not having it either’, so I picked it up and put it in the bin before the seagull could get it.”Everyone you talk to in the town, it appears, has a seagull story. “I absolutely hate seagulls,” says Kate Summers, manager of the Upper Crust Bakery. “I can’t count the number of people who have bought a pasty, gone to the beach and then come straight back to buy another one because a seagull has taken it from them. We had a seagull in here the other day and I don’t know who was shrieking louder, me or the seagull.”Ian Parrish, a customer in the bakery who works as a gardener, offers a rare voice in the town in support of the seagull. “I think they’re great,” he says. “It’s nature isn’t it? We haven’t got enough fish in the sea because of overfishing. I think we should have more seagulls.”Studies have shown that urban gulls live shorter lives than gulls in the wild. Life expectancy for a gull in the wild is more than 30 years, yet urban gulls live only 12 to 15 years.While the number of urban gull colonies in the UK and Ireland quadrupled to 473 between 2000 and 2015, the herring gull population fell by 55% overall between 1970 and 2002, and the great black-backed gull is a scarce breeding species in England.But in the streets of Sidmouth, the gulls are generally seen as a problem. “We’re trying to stop the aggressive behaviour of seagulls,” says Iain Chubb, a district councillor who holds the environment portfolio and is behind the new fines.“They’ve caused injuries to people, and we’ve had businesses come to us and ask us what we are going to do about it. It’s not big brother, it’s not cameras watching you, it’s not someone zooming in with a £80 fine to ruin your holidays.”For Chubb, the measure is intended to stop the cause of the birds’ aggression, not to banish them. “Seagulls are part of the vista in a place like Sidmouth,” he says.“We want them but we don’t want them to the point that they are attacking people to get their food because other people have fed them. Let’s try to get them to go back out to sea and eat the fish.”The conversation in Sidmouth might be one of the few positive legacies of the Cameron years. In 2015, during the last general election campaign, the former prime minister called for a “big conversation” about the problems posed by the birds following an attack on a tortoise in Liskeard, Cornwall. Shortly before the election, the chancellor George Osborne even earmarked £250,000 for a study into the urban seagull, although the plan was scrapped a few months later.No chips are safe: cuts leave councils struggling to fight off 'vicious' seagulls The cause was taken up again in February this year, when MPs debated the threat posed by the noise, dirt and scavenging antics of the gull, with the Conservative candidate for Plymouth, Oliver Colvile, declaring that if nothing was done the nation,“could very well see gull wars on our high streets!”But with gulls a protected species, the options for controlling them are limited. Culling, contraception, better covering and collection of food waste, the use of distress calls, kites and lasers have all been suggested and found to be wanting.“They used to have a speaker system with a recording of an owl outside Fields department store,” Perry King remembers. “The seagull used to sit on top of the speaker.”He also recalls the efforts of a falconer, hired by the local chamber of commerce to chase the seagulls away. “One day the falconer was here, giving his little talk to the people gathered round, and he set the falcon off and a seagull, a big one, caught it by the wing and dragged it out to sea.”How the seagulls will react to the issuing of fixed penalty tickets to the people who provide them with their favourite snacks remains to be seen.