What do Abraham Lincoln, Florence Nightingale and the Forth Rail Bridge have in common? The answer is not the punchline to a highbrow joke: they have all been recipients of the apparent honour of appearing on some form of currency.A woman will be on the $20 bill. But she's still likely to earn fewer than men | Angelina Chapin The issue of who should be worthy of such an accolade is a conversation that has come to the fore again recently with a widespread recognition that women are traditionally under-represented on banknotes. Canada has subsequently welcomed open nominations for women to appear on them; the US has announced the inclusion of escaped slave and abolitionist Harriet Tubman; and the Royal Bank of Scotland has now put playwright and novelist Nan Shepherd on its £5 note, along with scientist Mary Somerville on the £10. Many will also remember a related campaign in 2013, during which £13,000 was raised through crowdfunding to take the Bank of England to court over its lack of female representation, before the bank announced that it was putting Jane Austen on £10 notes.While the increased presence of women on currency has largely been hailed a feminist success, those struggling at the sharp end of economic inequality might be forgiven for any resentment towards what is largely a symbolic achievement: it is, after all, those with plenty of banknotes for whom those pictured on them will have any impact at all. Indeed, what those celebrating this new cast of banknote characters fail to recognise is the inappropriate nature of the symbolism that emblazons women on the very thing most likely to oppress them. This is all grounded in a form of feminism that focuses on representation at the expense of any real change to the material lives of our most disadvantaged women. While the women chosen are notable, it becomes apparent that stamping their faces on notes may not be a fitting tribute For those who recognise gender inequality as structural, and not easily shifted by the success stories of a few powerful women, the branding of female faces on banknotes should give rise to some discomfort. There are, after all, a great number of problems concerning women and their relationship with money, and not many of them focus on its physical manifestation as paper rectangles. The enduring pay gap, for instance, and the fact that it worsens yet further when ethnicity is also accounted for. The burden of unpaid domestic work which still largely falls to women. The fact that this government’s austerity cuts have disproportionately affected women and families headed up by them. It’s easy to see how capitalism might have a key role in the enduring nature of women’s inequality. It’s harder to see why painting our faces on its tools should go any way towards solving that.Indeed, while the women chosen are notable in many different ways, it becomes quickly apparent that stamping their faces on notes may not be a fitting tribute. The inclusion of Harriet Tubman, in particular, who lived an unfathomable existence as a slave for much of her life, seems wholly unpalatable in the context of a long history of slaves being traded literally as currency by the ruling class. Jarringly, she will now appear on the back of a $20 bill; the front is reserved for Andrew Jackson, the seventh president of the US whose time in office saw an America rife with slavery. It’s a move that has seen widespread celebration and hailing of Tubman as a “shero” and “inspiration” in a girl power-esque rhetoric wholly unfitting for a woman who dedicated her life to liberating others from the most visceral of structural oppressions.Was Jane Austen a feminist? The answer is in her stories | Curtis Sittenfeld This celebration of women on money also buys into another popular misconception: that the appearance of women anywhere where there are men must be a success in and of itself. And yet who are the men to have graced currency over the years? Among them are military leaders, bank governors and Winston Churchill, who played a considerable role in opposing the suffragettes during his time as home secretary. And, lest we forget, there is also one woman already ubiquitous on currency across the Commonwealth. The Queen, arguably the greatest symbol of inequality in the country today. Uncritically chalking the appearance of women alongside men up to a win focuses solely on representation at the expense of any engagement with the structures and power relations that have rendered women marginalised in the first place.True economic emancipation for women looks less like a caricature of a woman emblazoned on the spare banknote you probably don’t have, and more like an end to the gendered financial inequality that sees women relentlessly disadvantaged. Rather than improving the decor inside an already stuffed wallet, feminism should focus on fighting for material gains in the lives of the women who have comparatively little. Until they are afforded an equal share of the world’s money and the opportunities it bestows, the faces of strangers on other people’s banknotes will continue to provide little comfort to those just struggling to make ends meet.