Ken Loach has spoken about the forthcoming Brexit vote, referring to the decision as “a dangerous, dangerous moment”.I, Daniel Blake review: Ken Loach's welfare state polemic is blunt, dignified and brutally moving The acclaimed film-maker was speaking at the Cannes film festival to promote his new film I, Daniel Blake, an angry social drama about working class Brits caught up in a bureaucratic struggle to receive state benefits.At the film’s press conference, Loach spoke about why he thinks the decision to leave the EU is a difficult one.“On the one hand, the European Union is a neo-liberal project,” he said. “It’s a drive towards privatisation and a drive towards de-regulation. The safeguards that are there for workers and for the environment are constantly under attack so it’s not doing us any favours at the moment. On the other hand, if we leave, we know the individual governments will be moving as far to the right as possible.”Loach believes the solution is ultimately voting to stay and thinks we need to “make alliances with other European left movements”.Last year, the Guardian met Loach on set of his Newcastle-set drama. Despite his vocal support for Jeremy Corbyn, he said then he believed the Labour leader was failing to speak out on how the government deals with poverty. He’s now saying that Corbyn’s voice needs to be amplified by those around him.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “I think for once there is a leadership of Corbyn and one or two of his allies who understand the interests of working class people,” he said. “He speaks out but the problem is that the rest of the party in parliament wants him out and that’s the problem he faces. There are people who understand what is happening but the political structures are not allowing him to be heard.”I, Daniel Blake has been receiving largely positive reviews, with the Guardian’s Peter Bradshaw praising its “fierce, simple dignity” and Thursday’s press screening leaving many audience members in tears. The plot, about a man who’s suffered a heart attack and a single mother both fighting for benefits, is one that Loach believes is relevant across the continent.“I think it’s shocking because it’s not just an issue for people in our country but it’s an issue for people across Europe,” he said. “There is a conscious cruelty in the way we’re organising our lives now. The most vulnerable people are told that their poverty is their own fault. If you have no work, it’s your fault that you haven’t got a job. It’s not just a few, it’s tens of thousands and across Europe, it’s massive. It’s deeply shocking that this is happening in the heart of our world.”Producer Rebecca O’Brien, Loach’s long-time collaborator, also spoke about the ways in which the film industry could be held as an example of unity across the EU.“I feel quite strongly that the way that the European film community can and does work together in terms of co-productions is a really good example of how Europe can work,” she said. “There is a British tendency to look across the Atlantic to make films and that seems to be a money-driven operation. Whereas in Europe, cultural and important stories like ours can be told.”I, Daniel Blake is showing in competition at the festival alongside new films from Sean Penn, the Dardenne brothers and Bruno Dumont.