TabooLondon, 1814. In top hat and trench coat, Tom Hardy is every inch the anti-Poldark. He plays James Keziah Delaney, an irascible renegade last seen on a slave ship in Africa and long presumed dead, who shows up at his father’s funeral. It’s a gruff gothic thriller, hooking us in with sordid rumours, gravediggers and supernatural visions. Co-written by Hardy with his dad, Chips, and produced by Ridley Scott.• 7 January, BBC.Chewing GumAt the Baftas last year, the Beyoncé-loving acting-and-writing sensation Michaela Coel accepted her award for best female comedy performance wearing a gown her mum made – then gave a speech thanking her hero, Victoria Wood, and encouraging black women to embrace their comedy, their beauty and the power of their voices. Coel has certainly found hers: there’s nothing else like Chewing Gum. Set on a council estate, it stars Coel as the naive Tracey, who falls in love with a white boy called Connor, then gets kicked out of her strict mum’s house. At series end, the pair were wandering off across the estate, in their pants, carrying binbags full of their belongings. You should watch this show. • 12 January, E4.Apple Tree YardWhat starts out as a simple, reckless mid-life affair between a genetic scientist named Yvonne (Emily Watson) and a Westminster paper pusher (Ben Chaplin) takes an intriguing turn when she realises he’s a spook – then suddenly gets very dark indeed. A provocative study of obsession, longing and just how far down a criminal path desire can take you. • January, BBC.SSGB      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A murky, murderous world … Sam Riley in SSGB. Photograph: BBCWhat if the Germans had won the Battle of Britain? In this starry new spy thriller based on Len Deighton’s novel, Sam Riley plays detective Douglas Archer, a widower who has to navigate a murky, murderous world in which his bosses are smiley Nazis, his colleagues may all be in the Resistance – and his sons are gleefully swapping swastikas at school. • February, BBC.GirlsLove it or loathe it, without Lena Dunham’s show leading the way, some of our TV favourites would never have been greenlit. And if the penultimate season was anything to go by, this, its last ever series, will be heartbreaking, bitchy, emotionally astute and electric television. Goodbye Hannah, Jessa, Marnie and Shosh. We’ll miss your narcissistic ways. • February, HBO/Sky.Big Little Lies   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  First look at Nicole Kidman in HBO’s Big Little LiesAn HBO miniseries about a cabal of bitchy and ultimately homicidal mums in sunny California, starring Nicole Kidman and Reese Witherspoon. It comes from great stock, in the form of director Jean-Marc Vallée – known for Dallas Buyers Club and Wild – and writer David E Kelley of Ally McBeal fame (and Michelle Pfeiffer’s partner). • February, HBO/Sky.GuerrillaIn his first TV drama since Luther, Idris Elba stars as a man who sets up a radical underground cell in 1970s London. Directed by 12 Years a Slave screenwriter John Ridley, and also starring Zawe Ashton and Freida Pinto, Guerrilla will show a side to black British history rarely explored – the “black power desk”, a real-life hush-hush counterintelligence unit charged with crushing black activism. Guaranteed to be explosive. • April, Sky Atlantic.The DeuceThere are a few rules to guarantee you melt the internet. First, you take David Simon. Then you add James Franco playing twin-brother mobsters. Finally, you throw in Maggie Gyllenhaal as Candy Merrell, a sex worker turned pioneering pornographer in this new drama about the first days of New York’s former porn HQ, Times Square. • HBO/Sky Atlantic, date TBC.Line of DutyFor three years, it’s been a relentlessly tense barrage of corruption and torture and murder, tightening the screws with each new series and becoming ever more polished and unforgiving. The 2016 series was the best yet, dripping with references to real-life abuse. If Jed Mercurio can top it, we’re all in trouble. • BBC, date TBC.Three GirlsLess than a year ago, there were loud cheers in Manchester crown court when some of the men who’d groomed young girls in Rochdale were sentenced to up to 25 years in jail. In this BBC drama based on the story, Maxine Peake and Lesley Sharp play the women who finally listened to the girls, after they were failed by authorities. • BBC, date TBC.I Love DickJill Soloway, creator of the transcendent Transparent, remakes the cult novel as a female-gaze sex fantasy for Amazon. Kathryn Hahn plays Chris, a harried, married film-maker who falls for Dick (Kevin Bacon), a mysterious academic, then starts penning him endless love letters – often with her husband’s help. • Amazon Prime, date TBC.American Gods      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Classical myth v modern commerce … American Gods. Photograph: StarzAfter various false starts, fantasy fans can finally look forward to the TV version of Neil Gaiman’s first novel. Set in modern-day America, it pits the classical mythical deities (brought to the US in waves of immigration) against the new-fangled gods of commerce and the internet. And better than all that, former Hollyoaks actor and Strictly finalist Ricky Whittle will play the lead, Shadow Moon. • Amazon Prime, date TBC.The Cuckoo’s CallingOver the next three years, the BBC will be adapting the entirety of Robert Galbraith/JK Rowling’s hit crime series Cormoran Strike. First up, The Cuckoo’s Calling, starring Tom Burke as our hero, a wounded war vet turned crack PI, with Holliday Granger as his sidekick, Robin Ellacott. • BBC, date TBC.Curb Your EnthusiasmIn the six years since the last series, addicts had begun to abandon hope. But then Larry David came forward with some pretty, pretty good news. A ninth season is imminent, with Jeff Garlin, Cheryl Hines, Susie Essman, JB Smoove, Richard Lewis, Ted Danson and Mary Steenburgen all on board. “In the immortal words of Julius Caesar,” said David, “‘I left, I did nothing, I returned.’” • HBO/Sky, date TBC.Doctor Foster 2      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Thrillingly on-the-edge … Suranne Jones in Doctor Foster. Photograph: BBCThe second outing for Suranne Jones’ thrillingly on-the-edge GP, Gemma, a woman who unravelled on our screens in 2015 after suffering the ultimate betrayal – her husband impregnating a young mistress. But can Mike Bartlett possibly better that dinner party from hell – or will the good doctor contract a bad case of Broadchurch syndrome? • BBC, date TBC.Game of ThronesWinter is here, and there are only 13 episodes left. After blasting viewers into uncharted territory last year, Game of Thrones has everything to play for in 2017. Daenerys is heading to Westeros with her dragons. The White Walkers are heading south. Leaked plots and set photos hint at something truly epic on the horizon. • HBO/Sky, summer.ValkyrienTwo men run an illegal hospital in Oslo’s secret subway tunnels. One is a doctor who gives emergency treatment to anyone under the radar – bank robbers and assorted criminals, plus his dying wife, who was told traditional medicine couldn’t help her. The other is a government worker repairing the city’s old bomb shelters and waiting for the end times. The big Walter Presents thriller of the year is ticking all the paranoia boxes for 2017. • Walter Presents, date TBC.Twin Peaks      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   What next? Kyle MacLachlan in the original Twin Peaks’ alarming final scene.Surely one television show cannot shoulder all of the expectation that has been placed on the return of Twin Peaks? The original series was revolutionary and has since been filed as One of the Most Important TV Series. Many of the cast have returned. David Lynch co-wrote and directed every episode. • HBO/Sky Atlantic, date TBC.Stranger Things 2Stranger Things had it all: horror, cute kids, the 1980s. Where the Duffer brothers will take their sci-fi thriller/high-school romance is anyone’s guess – but we know Winona will be back, young Will will presumably continue to cough up creatures from the Upside Down, and we hope Eleven saves the day (with Romeo Beckham by her side? Give your break-out star what she wants, Duffers).• Netflix, date TBC.MotherlandThe highlight of the BBC’s 2016 sitcom season was the pilot for this comedy drama written by Graham Linehan, Holly Walsh and Sharon Horgan – a hysterically bleak portrait of modern parenthood that zipped by on a tidal wave of invention. Of course there’s going to be a full series. Of course it’s going to be brilliant. • BBC, date TBC.HarlotsIt’s the 1760s in London, brothels are 10 a penny and the sex trade is a cut-throat business. Based on the lives of real women, this primetime ITV drama shows the rivalry between two madams played by Samantha Morton and Lesley Manville. • ITV, date TBC.Catastrophe      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Excruciating … Rob Delaney and Sharon Horgan in the third series of Catastrophe. Photograph: Mark Johnson/Channel 4Last time we saw them, Sharon and Rob were stuffing their faces with pizza, having just reconciled after his sexual harassment suit, when Rob found a receipt for the morning-after pill. Tackling the inevitable fallout from this, the third series will surely be as funny and excruciating as the last. This, guaranteed, will be the best Channel 4 comedy of the year.• Channel 4, date TBC.RellikProducers Harry and Jack Williams were behind two of the biggest TV phenomena of 2016: Fleabag and The Missing. Can they make it a triple with their most ambitious project yet? Rellik (“Killer” spelled backwards, you’ll notice) is described as a time-hopping drama that begins with a murder before spooling backwards to show you why it happened. • BBC, date TBC.CliqueFleabag began life on BBC3 before moving to BBC2 and then going global on Amazon Prime, and the channel will be hoping to replicate that crossover success with Clique, a psychological thriller set at Edinburgh University. Written by Jess Brittain, who cut her teeth on Skins, it sees best friends Holly and Georgia drawn into an exclusive circle of alpha girls led by lecturer Jude McDermid. • BBC3, date tbc.GypsyNaomi Watts plays “a therapist who begins to develop dangerous and intimate relationships with the people in her patients’ lives”. Sam Taylor-Johnson is directing the first two episodes, so this could be as slippery and beguiling as her best work. Then again, she also directed Fifty Shades of Grey, so this could have guilty pleasure written all over it. • Netflix, date TBC.