It is both the dream and the nightmare of admirers of a particular writer that an unknown work may turn up after his or her death. In the best cases, the lost manuscript will prove to have been suppressed for some reason personal (grief, privacy) or public (censorship, legal action, cultural taste). In the worst, the project turns out to have been dropped for reasons of artistic quality control.Waste review – a remarkable dissection of English malaise  So it was with a combination of anticipation and apprehension that fans of the Edwardian writer-director Harley Granville Barker (1877-1946) gathered at the National Theatre in London one afternoon last week for a rehearsed reading of a hitherto unperformed play. It was discovered by the critic Colin Chambers and the US playwright Richard Nelson, who has prepared an acting edition from papers found in the Granville Barker archive. Agnes Colander is a drama about an artist whose relationship with a fellow painter is buffeted by her estranged husband and another potential lover with contrasting charms. It was written by the 23-year-old Granville Barker in 1900. Having worked on drafts for much of that year, he seems to have decided that the play should not proceed to publication or production. Fears that it would not be passed by the censor – and, if it was, that audiences would not be warm – may have played a part in that calculation, although, re-reading it in 1929, the dramatist made a note on the manuscript that it was “very poor”, according to Nelson, although he and Chambers have (in my view, justifiably) over-ruled this view.After abandoning Agnes Colander, Granville-Barker rapidly went on to write his two most enduring plays, The Voysey Inheritance (1905), a family saga about financial immorality, and Waste (1907), although the latter was not staged until 1936, because its storylines involving politicians and an abortion were not considered performable before then.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Charles Edwards and Olivia Williams in Roger Michell’s revival of Waste by Harley Granville Barker, at the National Theatre, London. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the Guardian A powerful revival of Waste, in a production by Roger Michell, is currently being staged at the National Theatre and two members of its cast, Olivia Williams and Louis Hilyer, were among the five actors, dressed in rehearsal room jeans and sweaters, who stood at music stands on the stage of the Lyttelton for the reading of Agnes Colander, under the direction of Laurence Boswell. Williams performed the title character, with Hilyer taking the part of Otho Kjoge, an older Danish artist who courts Colander in Kensington during the first act, and is holidaying with her in Normandy in the second and third acts. The unusual presence of a Scandinavian in an English play of that time can be considered a nod to the Norwegian master of domestic drama, Henrik Ibsen, who, with George Bernard Shaw, was one of the two playwrights most influential on Granville Barker’s writing, and whom he championed as a director and critic. In common with late 19th-century plays by Ibsen (A Doll’s House, Hedda Gabler) and Shaw (Candida, The Philanderer), Agnes Colander reflects on female desire and freedom. Reminiscently of Ibsen’s proto-feminist heroines, Agnes boasts that, “In my life, I’ve always done what I wanted”, and, in a paradox that feels both Ibsenite and Shavian, argues that it would be “immoral” to go back to her husband. In a line that still stings 116 years after it was written, Agnes frets that the man she married is now trying to “complete an unholy bargain” by taking her “soul’s virginity” in addition to the more conventional penetration.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The belated world premiere of 19-year-old Arthur Miller’s first play, No Villain, starring George Turvey and Adam Harley, at the Old Red Lion theatre, London in 2015. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the Guardian Central to the play is what the characters call “the sex question”, a formula that the dramatist would have hoped the theatrical censor, the Lord Chamberlain, would interpret as referring to gender, although the alternative carnal meaning is heavily present in the text. Having left an unfaithful husband who sends letters begging for the resumption of their union, Agnes is presented with a choice between Kjoge, who embodies the attractions of physicality, and a younger suitor, Alec Flint (Hubert Burton), representing the competing claims of intellectualism. A friend of Agnes, Emmeline (Rosalie Craig), is a widow, who stands for a more conventional way of living for women at that time, although her presence complicates the dynamics in France.Olivia Williams: 'I've never been cast as a silly little woman before'  This is the second of two gifts delivered to theatre scholars either side of Christmas, following December’s world premiere in London of Arthur Miller’s first play, No Villain, written when he was a 19-year-old student. The Miller juvenilia gave an intriguing preview of subject matter and theatrical tactics that he would use in the plays of his maturity, and there are equally fascinating flashes in Agnes Colander of the dramatist that Granville Barker became: shrewd about human motive, acute to the difference between what people say and what they mean, and keen to test the limits of censorship. One aim of staged readings is to help to assess whether or not a full staging would be justified. In the case of Agnes Colander, on the basis of this compelling presentation, I think it would be – although the National might be too elevated and exposing a venue. But a first production somewhere off-West End in the manner of the Miller premiere, which was done at the Old Red Lion pub theatre, would be a worthwhile further test, and prevent this welcome extension of the legacy of the author of the great political play Waste (which can be seen at the National until 19 March) being wasted.