‘Has anyone seen R2-D2?” It’s 2005 and I’m pushing my way through a sea of people wielding lightsabers. Leicester Square is festooned with Star Wars paraphernalia for the premiere of Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith. Amid the screams, I’m struggling to find one of the franchise’s most popular stars: Kenny Baker, the man who brought the legendary robot to life.Kenny Baker, actor behind R2-D2, dies Baker, who died last weekend at the age of 81, was supposed to be meeting me on the red carpet to arrange an interview. I was featuring him in a book about 1970s variety acts and needed to speak to him before he headed to Huddersfield the following morning for the start of what sounded like a gruelling round of Star Wars conventions.Despite heavy rain, the fans were out in force to celebrate the Force. A line of Stormtroopers stood guard outside the Odeon as the last of the actors made their way along the red carpet. I was beginning to despair of ever finding Baker when a fan in a Darth Vader mask tapped me on the shoulder: “There he is.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Baker, 10 years later, at the Star Wars: The Force Awakens premiere in 2015. Photograph: Richard Young/Rex/ShutterstockOver in a far corner of the square, a low umbrella moved slowly along a line of screaming fans. I pushed my way to the front of the crowd. As a longstanding Star Wars addict, this was a big moment for me. The umbrella finally arrived. Underneath: a munchkin in a tuxedo. Biros and crumpled pieces of paper are thrust into his hands. Baker, used to the attention, dutifully signed every scrap. In between signatures, he agreed to meet me at his hotel after the show – though for security reasons he wasn’t allowed to tell me which one: “If the fans find out they’ll be round there like a shot.” Later that night he called me with the details.The following morning, Baker and his girfriend were already checking out when I arrived at their grand Regent’s Park hotel. Despite a blinding hangover, he looked fit and tanned. His train to Huddersfield was much earlier than expected, so the interview would have to be done in the back of his cab. Marylebone station was less than a mile away. I prayed for gridlock.  Kenny Baker and his girlfriend in 2005. Photograph: James Innes-SmithBaker struggled to manoeuvre his 3’8’’ frame into the backseat. “Everything in my house has had to be specially adapted,” he explained, “from the height of the bed to the positioning of doorknobs. Even my Rolls Royce had special stacked pedals and an extra-low steering wheel.” Kenny Baker obituary Because of his chronic asthma, he said he tried to avoid using his legs wherever possible. Losing his driving licence after a drink-driving offence was a headache, and public transport is no longer usually feasible (“far too many steps”). Baker wasn’t too keen on hotels either. “I used to tour the theatres and clubs with an 18-foot luxury caravan strapped to the back of my Roller – it was a damn site more comfortable than most hotels.”Before R2-D2 transformed his career, Baker toured the working men’s clubs, performing comedy song and dance routines. It was during his time with The Midget Review at the now-defunct Metropolitan theatre in Edgware Road that he met his touring partner, Jack Purvis. With Baker on mouth organ and vibraphone and Jack on trumpet, comedy act the Mini-Tones spent 20 years touring grubby clubs, end-of-the-pier theatres and ice shows.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kenny Baker on the set of 1999’s Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace. Photograph: ScreenProd/Photononstop /Alamy“Jack and I were the only musical dwarf act in the business, so we always attracted good audiences,” he said. “People of all heights came to see us. We went down a storm. I miss being able to play my instruments – I’m too much of a physical wreck these days. Playing the vibraphone gives me backache, leg ache and everything-else ache, and the asthma means I no longer have enough puff to play harmonica.”The Mini-Tones career came to a tragic end in 1991 after Purvis’s car collapsed on top of him while he was tinkering with the exhaust. The freak accident left him paralysed from the neck down, and he died a few years later. “Everything went wrong for me in the 1990s,” said Baker. “My wife [fellow actor Eileen] died of epilepsy soon after Jack’s accident, and for a while I felt totally alone.” He paused and gripped his girlfriend’s hand. “Star Wars has been a real lifesaver, although I’m not a great fan of science fiction. The movies are OK, but they are dominated by CGI these days. Don’t get me wrong, Yoda’s computer-generated hair looks amazing, but there needs to be more. I think the storylines have suffered.” Baker had good reason to fear CGI. The last couple of Star Wars prequels had seen his character become increasingly pixelated, meaning less work. “But there are certain closeup movements only I can do convincingly. It’s all about giving R2 a personality, and CGI can never really do that. Besides, George Lucas likes to keep his friends on board.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   R2-D and C-3PO in the first Star Wars film.'The secrecy has been ludicrous': Star Wars actor Anthony Daniels on the new film and his life as C-3PO Much less cordial was Baker’s relationship with fellow robot actor Anthony Daniels, who plays C-3PO – and who returned for JJ Abrams’s reboot, while Baker did not. “We’ve never really hit it off. It’s such a shame, because C3-PO and R2 are the two characters fans most want to meet. They assume we must be best buddies and are always disappointed when they find out we’re not.”He also had mixed feelings on the next round of conventions. “I find them exhausting these days, but the fans still seem to enjoy coming. I guess it’s a great way for them to make new friends, swap stories and compare merchandise. A fan recently brought a whole packet of Star Wars condoms to a convention. I couldn’t believe my eyes.”And although Baker appreciated the attention, he expressed scepticism at the pitch of devotion displayed by many Star Wars fans. “They live and breathe the franchise and hero-worship the actors. It can be disturbing. Some fans lack boundaries, and I don’t appreciate it when they wait outside my house. It can be pretty intense at times, but I shouldn’t complain: they’ve provided me with a decent pension. They act as though I’m the star, but it’s R2 who is the real star – I just happen to be the one bringing him to life.”The traffic is mercifully heavy outside Madame Tussauds. We are inching along the Euston Road. Baker gives a rueful smile. His next acting work at that point was in Jim Davidson’s adult panto Boobs in the Wood.   Baker with the author, James Innes-Smith, in 2005. Photograph: James Innes-Smith“I’d love to do more film work, y’know, live the whole movie star life, but I’m sick of being typecast. I have played more short-asses than most. I was a lead midget in Time Bandits, a magical midget in The Dark Crystal, a naughty midget in Labyrinth and an uncredited midget in Willow. I suppose it would be a stretch to cast me as a regular character. But you never know. Most of my work these days consists of after-dinner speaking.” As we pull into Marylebone station, I run on ahead to make sure the train doesn’t leave without him. The guard is about to blow his whistle as I skid across the platform. I tell him how important it is R2-D2 doesn’t miss his train. The guard demands my ticket. “No, you don’t understand – these aren’t my bags, they belong to R2-D2 from Star Wars. He needs to get to Huddersfield.” The guard shakes his head, and when Baker and his girlfriend come tearing across the concourse he looks on in disbelief. “Are you really R2-D2?” he asks, helping him with the bags. “Yes,” comes the reply, with a smile. “But you can call me Kenny.”