Some winners of the Turner prize lap up the attention. At the extreme end of the spectrum lies Grayson Perry who, since winning the award, has forged a successful TV career. Others prefer to withdraw to the shadows once the fuss has died down. Elizabeth Price, who won in 2012, is firmly in the latter category. She says she found the experience of the prize “exciting but I felt out of my depth quite often”.One would hardly think it of someone who in a previous life had been a pop star: she was in Talulah Gosh, the 80s indie band, though she says she never really took to being on stage. When she accepted the Turner prize, she also did something unusual: made a brisk, articulate and politically charged speech, railing against the downgrading of arts education. Emails poured in, which needed replying to. “A lot of artists have a staff and run a small business. I don’t.” It was fantastic, she says, but overwhelming. “Every time the Turner prize comes around, I have a slight feeling of, ‘It was an amazing thing but I am really glad my time is in the past.’”And so Price, 49, has been back doing what she likes best: working hard on her video works, latterly in her new studio in south-east London, where light floods in from a quiet street on to a big table loaded with computers and papers; and, opposite, a large board pinned up with images. Here she makes works that combine archive images, emotion-tugging, pop-inflected soundtracks, and slippery but seductive narratives.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A Restoration: watch Elizabeth Price’s digital excavation of ancient CreteHer latest work, A Restoration, which has just opened at the Ashmolean museum in Oxford, is the fruit of a £60,000 award she won in 2013 from the Contemporary Art Society. (Full disclosure: I was on the panel.) For its material, she has plunged into the Sir Arthur Evans archive held by the institution, mining the materials left by the man who began excavating Knossos on Crete in 1900. Evans brought to light the bronze age Minoan civilisation, rewriting the story of European prehistory. He found a fabulously wealthy, literate and sophisticated palace culture that reached its peak in the 17th and 16th centuries BC, more than a millennium before the Athenian golden age of the 5th century BC. In his earlier life, he was also a Guardian foreign correspondent, reporting from the Balkans, during which time he was imprisoned in Austria-ruled Ragusa (modern Dubrovnik) for his politically forthright reporting. Later, he found time to create the modern Ashmolean, consolidating scattered collections into its present building.Under Evans, the palace site at Knossos was heavily restored using the modernist material of choice: concrete. Fragments of frescoes and artefacts were also restored, in some cases so imaginatively that one might say they were virtually fabricated by the Swiss artists Emile Gilliéron père et fils. The archaeologist was, Price says, “extraordinarily permissive in terms of invention, in the materials he produced. His creative licence is extraordinary. And it has a kind of vigour. There’s no pretence that it isn’t enjoyable: it has a kind of energy that is unreserved and febrile and exciting.” Looking at his photographic albums, books and other materials, she says, “I was fascinated by how familiar the images seemed in terms of the aesthetics of the early 20th century. What was really difficult to extricate was the extent to which these kind of archaeological discoveries influenced the visual art of the time, and the extent to which the visual art of the early 20th century was projected back on to the discoveries.” There is, she says, “a vitality, a libidinal drive in Evans’s work”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A Restoration. Image courtesy of the artist and MOT InternationalA Restoration is, as with all Price’s films, narrated by what she calls a “chorus”, in this case a synthetically produced female voice that represents administrators in the museum, whose job it is to organise the digital archive. (This role of administrator is one with which she is familiar – as a younger artist working in sculpture, she had a part-time job as an administrator for Hackney council.) What emerges gradually in this fictional narrative is that these administrators share Evans’s “permissive” approach, having a somewhat unruly attitude to the materials they are supposed to be carefully garnering. “In a remote corner of the server,” Price’s poetic narrative tells us, something is being created – first a garden “made up of all the broken stems, and pale, crushed shreds of fauna that we could retrieve”. Suddenly the images, first of all made up of archive images of Evans’s finds, are elaborated and extended; and finally the stems of frescoed Knossian blooms quiver into CGI life, brushed by some ethereal breeze. Into this fecund garden, the administrators place animals, then they amass records and plans of the palace, “rebuilding” it digitally. This all seems relatively benign, until the administrators become taxonomically reckless, gathering together drinking cups and vessels from all periods of history and all parts of its collection, and from that of the nearby Pitt Rivers anthropological museum, as if for some bacchanalian gathering. Finally, and troublingly, they amass violent objects: swords, staffs and other weapons. “I wanted the administrators to create a psychologically appealing but unstable voice. You don’t quite know what is motivating the more benign and ultimately rather violent aspects of their imaginative project. But somehow it’s connected to the slightly repressed trauma of the objects in the museum.” What is being manifested, she says, is the purposes for which the objects were made, whether joyful or murderous – and which, when seen in a museum, “are euphemised or effaced”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Elizabeth Price’s Turner prize-winning The Woolworths Choir of 1979 - video excerptPrice has had another time-consuming project this year – curating a Hayward touring exhibition, which opens at the Whitworth art gallery in Manchester in June, before visiting Bexhill-on-Sea and Swansea. It is, characteristically, organised around a formal idea: the fairly dry-sounding notion of “the horizontal” – just as the elements of her Turner-winning film, The Woolworths Choir of 1979, were drawn together by a single physical gesture: a twisting arm motion observed in medieval sculpture, in footage of the 1979 fire at a Manchester Woolworths, and in the dance moves of the 60s girl band the Shangri-Las. As with that film, Price will excavate a deeper poetry from the “horizontal” starting point. It will start with the idea of sleep and sleep states, move into landscapes, then take on memorials and sepulchral sculpture, and end with gestures in dance. At the same time, it will also be a narrative – the idea is that the show represents, in some way, the “collective dream of the fellowship of sleepers” which the visitor will encounter at the start of the exhibition.This rush of commissions has meant Price has taken a year out of her teaching at the Ruskin art school at the University of Oxford. But her strong views on arts education have not been quelled. The leaching of resources from arts subjects in schools will have a pernicious impact, she believes. “The way schools are assessed is going to focus decreasingly on art: so of course schools are going to marshall all their resources on those areas that are scrutinised. Pretty quickly, that will affect the relative valuation of subjects: so if you are good at art, you will think that doesn’t amount to very much.” Elizabeth Price on her Turner prize 2012 win She adds: “It’s not easy to build a career in the arts, but for some people, me included, it is their best chance of success in their working lives. And it’s incredibly important to create opportunity for people from all social backgrounds to study art, to work in and influence the arts, though there is more work to be done at universities like Oxford to achieve this.” On the vexed question of Oxford admissions – with even the prime minister calling for the university to achieve a more diverse student body – she says she often feels frustrated by a frequently risk-averse approach to offering places, which is partly propelled by some colleges’ obsession with competing against each other in internal ranking systems. “In my experience, accepting a student with a B at A level does not constitute a risk. They may be separated from an A-grade student by only a per cent, after all. It’s entirely possible that a student with a B might demonstrate more potential in interview, especially if they haven’t had significant advantages up to that point. That isn’t positive discrimination – which I do believe in by the way – it’s just seeking out the best students.” Despite her clarity and lack of reticence on such matters, Price’s need for solitude radiates through any encounter. “I am slow,” she says. “I like a lot of time to think about things, and I am quite socially reserved. Yeah, you know, I like being on my own.” • A Restoration is at the Ashmolean, Oxford, until 15 May. In a Dream You Saw a Way to Survive and You Were Full of Joy is at the Whitworth, Manchester, 11 June to 23 October, then tours to De La Warr Pavilion, Bexhill-on-Sea, and Glynn Vivian art gallery, Swansea.