You don’t have to come from a conventional background to get into beekeeping. I’m a London girl and it started through gardening for me.I moved to the South Bank after living in a hostel for two and a half years and being essentially homeless. Within two weeks I came across a community garden off Library Street. My grandparents used to live overlooking the space but I didn’t recall a garden, so I went in. “Why have you got all these raised beds, a couple of ponds and a lovely greenhouse next to these ramshackle pre-fabs? What’s that all about?” That’s how my involvement with Bankside Open Spaces Trust began. I started by volunteering; I became a trustee and after about a year I got a job as a community gardener running after-school clubs and Saturday gardening based on food-growing.I have a degree in graphic design from Canterbury art school, so it was momentous to learn I would be working with Tate Modern and the international artist Fritz Haeg on a project called Edible Estates. We had six weeks to turn a dog toilet into a community garden. I thought, “What have I got myself into?” but I knew all about housing estates. We door-knocked to get everyone on board. I wanted to ensure that this living organic exhibit would be cared for long after the press and visitors had gone. And we did it: after nine years, Brookwood Triangle is still a vibrant community space.Me and my garden: ‘The developers like having us here’ Five years ago I started my beekeeper training. Through the London Beekeepers’ Association I was assigned a mentor and visited apiaries all over London and even in the States, where I have family. I keep the bees in the grounds of St John’s church in Waterloo, and I run a community garden down the road. Sometimes I take bees to the garden in an observation hive to show the children who help in the garden. I explain how important it is to grow forage plants for bees in the city. We grow echinacea, sage and rosemary in a medicinal herb garden and the classic children’s plant, the sunflower, is great for honeybees.My favourite spot By the quince trees. I like the fact that something as exotic as a quince tree is there. I showed the kids how to give them the best possible start by digging square holes and adding mycorrhizal fungi. Some of them are teenagers now, and more into Reality TV and music, but they still check on their trees’ progress.• How does your garden grow? Email space@theguardian.com