In the 1920s, photography offered a radical new way to capture, view and interpret the world. Today photography is a central part of our lives – we all carry a camera in our pocket on our phone – but the modernist period was really the starting point of this, when photography became integrated into society and disseminated information.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ilse Bing Dancer, Willem van Loon, Paris 1932 Photograph, gelatin silver print on paper 276 x 184 mm Photograph: Ilse Bing/The Sir Elton John Photography Collection © The Estate of Ilse BingPhotography was invented in 1839, but it was not until the 1920s that its full potential was realised. This period is often referred to as the “coming of age” of the medium – artists began exploring what the camera could do that the human eye could not, and how it could present a new modern perspective on the world. Artist and theorist László Moholy-Nagy proclaimed that photography could radically change not just what, but how we see. He called this the “new vision”. Rather than emulating other art forms, photography began to embrace qualities unique to itself – from its ability to reproduce the world in sharp detail to its capacity to create new realities through the manipulation of light, chemicals and paper, producing abstract images made entirely in the darkroom. It was this versatility which made photography so exciting, and encouraged artists to push the medium’s boundaries.Artists such as Ilse Bing, dubbed the “queen of the Leica”, used this new camera to crisply capture the body in motion, as in her photograph Dancer, Willem van Loon, Paris (1932). This ability to freeze the body was a radical new way to capture the world. Aleksandr Rodchenko meanwhile experimented with new perspectives. Advocating the “bird’s eye” and “worm’s eye” view, he defamiliarised everyday surroundings, allowing for towering constructions to be seen in a new light, such as his Shukhov Radio Tower (1927) pictured above. Smaller, lighter and more portable cameras opened up new perspectives to photographers encouraged by Rodchenko’s statement: “Do you understand now that the most interesting viewpoints for modern photography are from above down and from below up, and any others rather than belly-button level?”The impact of these radical experiments pioneered in the modernist period can still be seen in photography today, so let them inspire you to share your own artworks with the theme of “radical” – be they photographs or otherwise.How to share your artworkShare an image of your artwork via GuardianWitness, by clicking the blue “contribute” button on this page, or via the Android or iPhone app. If you have any problems, email us at userhelp@theguardian.com.We’ll feature some of our favourite submissions on the Guardian’s art and design site. By sending us your pictures you: a) acknowledge that you have created the pictures or have permission to do so; and b) grant us a non-exclusive, worldwide, free licence to publish your pictures as described. Copyright resides with you, and you may reuse your pictures however you wish. Read our full terms and conditions.Don’t worry if they don’t appear immediately – everything has to be approved before it can be “hung” in our online gallery. Do tell us in the comments if there are any improvements we could make to the series.The Radical Eye: Modernist Photography from the Sir Elton John Collection is at Tate Modern until 21 May 2017 