The Dream was the first ballet that Frederick Ashton created for Anthony Dowell and myself. In fact, the first ballet we’d ever danced together. Ashton had never created anything important on me – he really worked with Margot Fonteyn – and Anthony didn’t realise how huge it was.I was Titania, proud Titania – that’s the first thing said about her. She’s queen of the fairies, and Oberon (Anthony) was king. We started with the pas de deux, rather than at the beginning of the ballet, which is where we argue over the Indian boy. We get together at the end with this amazing pas de deux – I think it’s one of the longest pas de deux actually, it’s six or eight minutes long.Titania is such a wonderful character, so beautiful and so nightmarish to everybody else. She’s so haughty and she knows she’s ravishingly beautiful, and Oberon adores her. She degrades herself completely, of course, when she falls in love with Bottom. It’s wonderful that Shakespeare made her behave so badly with an ass.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A Midsummer Night’s Dream translates very well into movement. I don’t think anything is lost. The steps say the words, don’t they? You have to make cuts, the ballet is something like 50 minutes long, so half the things that are said in the play aren’t necessarily interpreted in the ballet, but the ideas are there. It’s really the emotions we’re portraying.I loved the play. I always love Shakespeare’s humour, and it’s so richly achieved in the ballet. It runs so smoothly from a comic situation to a dramatic situation to a sublime situation to ridiculous things, like Bottom getting up on pointe – as far as I know that was the first time a man danced on pointe. What the ballet really gets over is the difference between the supernatural people and the human characters, it’s quite a different world. Oberon and Titania are wonderful together because she’s sparky too; they’re both fighting spirits. She overlords everything and the only person who can make her succumb is Oberon, and that’s after an eight-minute pas de deux.I had been in the company longer than Anthony, I’d danced with other people and I’d had wonderful partners, but with Anthony it was different: everything just worked. We heard the music in the same way; when we’d go to do a step we’d prepare at the same time, and we’d get to the position at the same time, not a quarter of a second before or after. We’re both very classical dancers, and our legs were at the same angle. When Ashton said do an arabesque, we were like a photocopy of each other. It was completely natural. I remember being bowled over by it. Anthony hadn’t really partnered anybody before, he had no idea, he thought it was like this with everybody. It made our name really, that pas de deux. We used to dance it in galas worldwide – it was our signature tune. We went on the Ed Sullivan show in 1965, which was the greatest American chat show at that time, so it was quite a thing to do that. It made our partnership. It was like a dream really, come true.