The grand masters of profanity are muscling in on the craze for colouring. The Modern Toss duo, cartoonists Jon Link and Mick Bunnage, have released a Mindless Violence colouring book, full of images of utterly surreal and dumb brutality.It is, as you would expect, a lot less twee than its competitors. One typical page shows a brawl in an ornamental garden, while, in another illustration, two men with cricket bats prepare to collide on a helter-skelter. A Renaissance-style tableau depicts a wild-eyed businessman leaping to throttle a billowing air dancer, as his friends do their best to pull the two apart.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   More mindlessness, Modern Toss style – as coloured in by Vincent Forrester. Photograph: Modern Toss“People have had it up to here with soothing patterns,” say the artists, via email. “What they want is a reality sandwich. That’s what we’re giving them.“Modern consumers are under a lot of pressure these days; they need to let off steam. When they buy a book, they don’t just want to read it, they want to scribble all over it as well.”The colouring book is one of two the pair are publishing this week. The other, The Working Day, depicts cynical scenes from office life, from a man flagging an email as important, to a disgruntled worker storming out of the office at half-past five.To accompany the books, the duo have created a special pack of double-leaded Modern Toss colouring pencils – or, as it says on the packet, “Double Ender Rainbow Shit Scribblers” – in 24 unique colours from “Bin Juice” via “Supermarket Mince” to “Asbestos”.“One of the most time-consuming parts of our job is colouring in our drawings after we’ve done them,” say the pair. “So, this way, we’re outsourcing it and chilling people out at the same time.”The books certainly work as a satire of the genre – but are images of moronic mortal combat actually soothing to colour in – or just more aggravation? We gave them to a group of stressed-out volunteers to help them let off steam, although the results were inconclusive. “It’s strangely relaxing,” said one. “You totally zone out after about five minutes.” Another said he found it soothing, but felt obliged to add some speech bubbles to make the violent scene make sense. One was less positive: “I found myself struggling to keep in the lines, choose the correct colours and be ‘funny’. So, in the end, it became like my job.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Work to rule in The Working Day. Photograph: Modern TossStill, if you’ve always looked down on the grown adults who helped turn colouring books into bestsellers, now just might be the time to join in the mindless fun. As the “House of Toss” themselves say: “It’s cheaper than smoking and less dangerous, unless you do it while you’re driving.”