How is it possible to explain why Ben Affleck, star of Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice and Suicide Squad, is sitting pretty in sixth place on Forbes’ 2016 list of the highest-paid male stars in Hollywood with a whopping $43m in fees, while Harrison Ford, who headlined Star Wars: The Force Awakens, languishes down in 20th position with just $15m in earnings over the past year? Dwayne Johnson named world's top earning actor as Hollywood pay gap laid bare Ageism? Dramatically varied negotiating strategies? Old-fashioned notions of star power? All are possibilities, but none makes any real sense.According to Variety, muddled superhero epic Dawn of Justice barely broke even at the global box office, despite pulling in $872m worldwide (the trade bible predicted it would need to make $800m, though that’s not including funds from merchandise, TV screenings and so forth). Suicide Squad looks highly unlikely to surpass its DC expanded universe stablemate, and in any case Batfleck’s part in the disappointing supervillain smackdown was a glorified cameo.The Force Awakens, meanwhile, is the third highest-grossing film of all time, with a planet-smashing $2.066bn in global receipts. So what exactly happened here?The answer perhaps lies in another bizarre anomaly: the paucity of Disney-based actors in the Top 20, despite two of last year’s top five grossing films hailing from the studio’s Lucasfilm and Marvel subsidiaries. There are only two Marvel actors in the Top 10, and that’s if one counts seventh-placed Vin Diesel’s monosyllabic performance in Guardians of the Galaxy. Robert Downey Jr, last year’s Forbes No 1, is the other – now in joint eighth place with a mere $33m in earnings. Ford is the only Star Wars actor to make the top 20, and we’ve already noted that he barely makes the cut.Is this a sign of Disney’s plummeting status in Hollywood? Can the famous old studio no longer keep up with rivals Universal (Dwayne Johnson and Diesel’s employers on Fast & Furious 7) and 20th century Fox (third-placed Matt Damon’s employers on The Martian) when it comes to paying its stars? In fact the exact opposite is likely to be true. The mouse house is simply benefiting from a focus on the cinematic universe model that has brought such success to Marvel, and now looks to be doing the same for Star Wars. And by doing so, it is slowly dismantling all that’s left of the Hollywood star system in 2016.The key difference with these Hollywood megabrands is that audiences like to follow an overarching saga, rather than their key players. Would The Force Awakens have been any more successful had it starred Johnson, Tom Cruise and Johnny Depp – all members of the Forbes Top five? No, it would not.Would Avengers: Age of Ultron have scored even higher than its gargantuan $1.5bn box office return with 10th-placed Brad Pitt as the Hulk and Damon as Thor? The answer, once again must be in the negative. And Disney doesn’t need them, because it is operating by different rules to its competitors, at least as far as its Marvel and Star Wars properties are concerned. Where rival studios have set out to secure star names in order to launch franchises or keep them afloat (Diesel and Johnson picked up huge paydays for Fast & Furious, and Affleck was recruited to give the DC universe star power), Marvel has tended to focus on long-term, multiple-film contracts for its stars, most of whom are relative unknowns before they sign on and therefore have less bargaining power.Even Downey Jr, who topped last year’s list with $80m, after negotiating a back-end deal for the Avengers films, was far from being an A-lister prior to winning the role of Tony Stark in 2008’s Iron Man. And though it would now be hard to remove the Oscar nominee from the Marvel setup without damaging the brand, the studio’s track record and ability to throw new superheroes into the mix on an annual basis suggests it would cope. Of course, Disney is a big company, and different rules seem to apply to some of its other franchises. Depp, fifth-placed on the Forbes list with $48m in earnings, is still flying high thanks to paydays from the upcoming fifth Pirates of the Caribbean movie and fantasy sequel Alice Through the Looking Glass. But given he was also Forbes’ most overpaid actor of 2015, it remains to be seen whether these kinds of highly paid roles will be available to him in future.For Star Wars – Disney bought Lucasfilm from creator George Lucas for $4.05bn – the studio seems to be following the Marvel model. British duo John Boyega and Daisy Ridley were paid relative space peanuts for their leading turns in The Force Awakens. And it’s notable that returning icons Carrie Fisher and Mark Hamill are also absent from Forbes’ recent lists.Ford is in some ways the exception that proves the rule. He was far less keen on returning as Han Solo than his fellow cast members from the original trilogy, and there were reports the studio had to pay as much as $25m to convince him to take the controls of the Millennium Falcon again. Forbes suggests the true figure was considerably lower, given the 74-year-old apparently only earned $15m in total over the past 12 months. But doesn’t that fee look like a bargain when you consider the paydays handed to some of Ford’s fellow actors? Could any other studio have pulled it off?Affleck’s earnings, in particular, keep nagging at me. Yes, he’s a double Oscar-winner, but as screenwriter and producer, not as an actor. And ever since the Argo director was cast as Batman, there has been a sense that this was somehow too obvious, too cheesy a choice, that Affleck was the kind of A-list name studios would have shoehorned into a superhero suit in the 1980s or 90s, when Hollywood believed you only had to unite the right star with the right project to magic up billions at the box office. A Sly Stallone in Judge Dredd or Alec Baldwin in The Shadow, to put it another way.Affleck’s huge payouts over the past year hint that this relatively old-fashioned approach to film-making remains a big part of the Hollywood template. Was erstwhile box office hero Will Smith recruited for Suicide Squad – the Bad Boys star is at 17 on the Forbes list with $20.5m in receipts – for similar reasons?If so, the relative box office failure of Warner Bros’s DC universe movies so far – Suicide Squad also reportedly needs $750m to break even, and won’t get there – suggests it’s time to take a different approach. In 2016, casting an A-lister will never be a quick fix to a bad script or a murder-in-the-edit-room approach to film-making.Warner seems not to be ready to do things differently, though it is far from alone given the remarkable amounts that continue to be handed out to some of the film industry’s enduring A-listers. In the meantime Disney, which is way ahead in the race to become 2016’s highest-grossing studio, seems to be eyeing a future where Hollywood’s great firmament of stars slowly begins to blink out, one by one.