Born in Hemel Hempstead, Whitlock, 23, began training as a gymnast aged seven. In 2012, he won team and pommel horse bronze medals at the London Olympics. In 2015, he was pommel horse world champion. In Rio, he became a double Olympic champion on pommel and floor, and claimed the all-around bronze medal. He lives in Essex with his fiancee, Leah Hickton.When were you happiest?Standing on the podium in Rio: winning a gold medal for the pommel was 100% the pinnacle of my career.What is your earliest memory?Walking on my hands around the house.Which living person do you most admire, and why?Usain Bolt for his attitude, the amount of confidence he’s got, the way he delivers every time.What is the trait you most deplore in yourself?I like routine.What is the trait you most deplore in others?Jealousy.What is your most treasured possession?My Olympic medals: I have five.What would your super power be?To fly, definitely.What makes you unhappy?Being away from home for too long. The Olympics was tough because I was away for over a month and Leah didn’t come: she had flights booked, but not enough was known about Zika, so she didn’t want to risk it.What do you most dislike about your appearance?I am quite short. It does help me as a gymnast but I wouldn’t mind being a bit taller. I am 5ft 6in.What is your most unappealing habit?I like to be in bed by 10.What did you want to be when you were growing up?I always wanted to be a gymnast. I started when I was seven and luckily it paid off.What is the worst thing anyone’s said to you?When I was about 14, I was having back problems and the doctor said that I should quit gymnastics.What is top of your bucket list?I want to do a sky dive.What is your guiltiest pleasure?Waffles and ice-cream.What do you owe your parents?Everything. They’ve been my biggest supporters and made massive sacrifices. For seven years, my mum drove me an hour from Hemel to Essex for training every day, and waited seven hours to drive me home again.Angus Deayton: ‘When did I last cry? England 1 Iceland 2’ To whom would you most like to say sorry, and why?My coach, Scott Hann, for all the stress before competitions.What or who is the greatest love of your life?Leah. We have been together nearly nine years. She was my first girlfriend and we are getting married in July next year. What is the worst job you’ve done?I’ve never had a proper job. I have been a gymnast my whole career.When did you last cry, and why?At the Olympics, after my floor gold medal.How often do you have sex?Once a week.How would you like to be remembered?I would like to be a legend in my sport, like Mo Farah and Chris Hoy.Tell us a secretI want to have a move on the pommel horse named after me. I am keeping the move a secret because, if you are first to do it, it gets named after you – like The Biles for Simone Biles.