At a point of uncertainty about a third of the way into writing my first book you could unambiguously call a novel, I caught myself thinking, “I must just check that”. And then I realised with a lurch that there was nothing to check it against, because an instant ago I’d made it up. I was pushing out the extension ladder of the next scene over a great, big, empty gulf, without even anything to prop it on on the far side, until I invented that, too.Before, there had always been the ultimate assurance, no matter how tricksily I treated it, that there was a criterion outside myself for getting the writing right. There had been a real thing, whose imaginative effect on me had prompted the writing, and back towards which the writing tended. Now there wasn’t. I was writing a novel about history, and it certainly still contained a lot I had found out about the provokingly tiny town of mid-18th‑century New York: but I wasn’t trying to reproduce a found solidity any more. I was trying to conjure solidity from my own shonky collection of notions. Therefore I was on my own, wobbling over the void. It was a dizzy moment.I didn’t move away from non-fiction because I fell out of love with it. I believed, and still do, that when written well it has the scope to offer as rich and subtle an encounter with the world as fiction does. In part, because of its vast choice of techniques, its extraordinary array of different ways of knowing, which could be combined even more variedly, in firework displays of ad hoc consilience. Biographical knowing, biological knowing, mathematical knowing, art-historical knowing, psychological knowing, statistical knowing, poetic knowing; all of them available, all of them seeming to me to be divided by much more porous disciplinary walls than people imagine; all of them therefore open to combination and synthesis. The trouble was, I discovered, that narrative has needs of its own But I wanted to use these beautiful epistemological hybrids to tell stories. True stories; but still stories. If I’d had a motto, it would have been Viktor Shklovsky’s claim that “The purpose of art is to impart the sensation of things as they are perceived and not as they are known”. Writing was supposed to vivify knowledge, I thought, until it wasn’t knowledge any more but sensation. The trouble was, I discovered, that narrative had needs of its own. Narrative, to harmonise, requires a harmonious development of mood. Narrative, to resolve, requires a shape that history may not obligingly provide. Narrative isn’t history. It can be made out of history, but it’s a stylisation, a refinement, a second-order product. It isn’t the flowing, multitudinous cacophony of human experiences that constitutes the real past.Eventually I reached the point where it felt freer, and in a funny way more honest, to make my next hybrid be one between non-fiction and fiction itself, with scenes, and dialogue, and novelistic point-of-view. For some readers, that was enough to make my book Red Plenty, about the Soviet optimism of the early 1960s, into a novel. But for me, it remained a compound, a halfway thing. The characters in it weren’t just decorative. They weren’t there just to illustrate an argument. But they were boxed in by an argument, all the same. The book’s structure, its underlying skeleton, was still an explanation. It was that which determined where the narrative’s attention went next: where it looked and when it looked and when it stopped looking. It was narrative with a non-narrative core; narrative stretched over a skeleton of something else. And it’s this, for me, which is the fundamental thing that has changed in Golden Hill. This book is narrative all the way through, narrative not in the service of some other thing.What I notice now, is that I hardly seem to be writing in words, the way I used to. I mean, of course I am. A novel is a long, long string of words; is made of no other material at all. But that’s what it ends by being. It begins as a set of decisions about character, and time, and angle of vision, all taken before the final embodiment of those things in words.Golden Hill by Francis Spufford review – a frolicsome first novel Before the writing of a conversation, there’s the imagining of what the two (or three, or four) persons in it are all feeling and thinking; what their intent is, at this point, conscious or unconscious, chosen or compelled; what they understand of what the other people are up to; how much of all that, given the kind of encounter this is, will actually show in what they utter; what the functional business of their talk is, within the world of the story; and how the plot is going to be advanced by it. Likewise, before the writing of a description or a piece of action, there’s the whole question to be thought through, of how the person in whose viewpoint you are understands it, and therefore what will be prominent in it for them; what they will notice, ignore, love, hate, take for granted; and then what, beyond that, but without spoiling the integrity of an owned vision, the reader may also need to be shown, on the quiet.Only after settling on this inner structure of the conversation, wordlessly or at least in intuitive semi-worded shorthand, do the words come in that actually fill out the sentences of the dialogue. Only after settling on the experience of the seeing, do the words arrive, last, to represent it. Good writing in fiction is always doing an impossibly large number of things at the same time, and most of that happens beneath the surface, where the reader never sees it directly.And then, when you finally stretch the word-skin of the writing over the structure beneath, it swells and bumps out and sleekly creases as if it had muscles within – because it does. It’s as alive as you can make it. Maybe, by other people’s standards, the perceptions you’ve grown it out from are not so very impressive. It’s a nerve-racking business, exposing the understanding of humans and human life you’ve worked from, in all its potential crudity and un-wisdom. But that’s not the point. The point is, that if you get it right, there are no gulfs of empty space in there, to be crossed with the wobbling ladders of invention. There’s life, all the way down.Golden Hill is published by Faber.