Tributes have been paid to a Welsh woman who died after cycling into a ravine in fog, while on holidays in the Pyrénées.There was speculation that Jennifer Hill, who was on a cycling holiday with her husband, may have missed a sharp turn while descending a steep road above the resort of Gavarnie. Visibility was described as poor by local firefighters at the time of the accident on Sunday evening.Hill was the director of learning and skills at Vale of Glamorgan council in South Wales, and tributes came from council officials and from her family, who described her as “a devoted mother and treasured wife”.In a statement issued through the council, the family said: “We are so proud of her dedication to her work and many achievements both in the Vale and earlier in her career. She strove for nothing less than the best, whether it was cycling, running, or tending our beautiful garden. Nothing can replace her.”The council’s managing director, Rob Thomas, said he was shocked to hear of her death. “Jennifer’s work was admired far beyond the Vale of Glamorgan and her tragic death is a great loss to her profession. The greater loss is of course to Jennifer’s family, friends and colleagues. Having worked closely with her for several years I feel very fortunate to have been able to call Jennifer both a friend and colleague. Her compassion was unbreakable, in even the most testing of circumstances, and she will be deeply missed.”The council leader, Neil Moore, called her death “an absolute tragedy”, describing her as a public servant of great distinction. “Jennifer’s work has had a very real impact on the prospects of learners of all ages in the Vale of Glamorgan. Her dedication to improving education was hugely respected both throughout the Vale and beyond.”Hill joined the council in 2012 when she moved to live in Monmouth with her family, having previously worked as assistant director of schools and children’s services at Enfield in London. In Glamorgan she oversaw the council’s best ever exam results, and improvements in the education service praised by inspectors.