Previously unheard vocals from David Bowie’s final release, Lazarus, and never before seen archive footage of the star will be aired for the first time in a BBC2 documentary covering the last five years of his life. David Bowie: The Last Five Years will revolve around the singer’s final projects – his last two albums, The Next Day and Blackstar, and musical Lazarus, which recently transferred from Broadway to London.Bowie died on 10 January this year, two days after Blackstar’s surprise release. The documentary will be broadcast in January as part of a series of programmes to coincide with what would have been his 70th birthday. BBC4 will broadcast rarely seen Bowie performances from its archive, Martin Kemp will present a show dedicated to Bowie’s Life on Mars, and 6Music will host a “listening party” for the public’s favourite Bowie album and a tribute show.In The Last Five Years, producer Tony Visconti, who worked with Bowie over a period of more than four decades, describes how the singer recorded Lazarus. “He would stand in front of the mic and for the four or five minutes he was singing he would pour his heart out,” Visconti says. “I could see through the window he was really feeling it. The audio picked up his breathing, it wasn’t that he was out of breath, he was hyperventilating in a way, getting his energy up to sing this.”Created by Francis Whately, who produced and directed 2013’s David Bowie: Five Years, the film promises unprecedented access to the star’s closest collaborators and friends. It will also visit New York’s 55 bar where Bowie met the jazz quartet who would become his backing band on Blackstar, and interview the director and cast of Lazarus.Whatley said: “I always hoped that I would make another film about Bowie as we were only able to scratch the surface in the first film, but I just didn’t expect it to be this soon.“However, looking at Bowie’s extraordinary creativity during the last five years of his life has allowed me to re-examine his life’s work and move beyond the simplistic view that his career was simply predicated on change – Bowie the chameleon … ‘ch ch ch changes’ etc. Instead, I would like to show how the changes were often superficial, but the core themes in his work were entirely consistent – alienation, mortality and fame.”Adam Barker, channelexecutive for BBC2 and BBC4, said: “BBC2 is thrilled to have commissioned this unique documentary chronicling the most recent achievements of one of the most significant figures in the history of music.”