I ask her a gloomy question. She gives an upbeat reply. “Morale is actually very, very good in the party,” said Caroline Pidgeon, who has the possibly onerous honour of being Liberal Democrat candidate for London mayor. “We’ve got tons of new members in London who are excited and energetic, and that’s fantastic.” Her party says there are now 10,000 of them in the capital, the highest number for decades. Plus, council by-election results have perked up since last year’s general election gloom: wins in Sutton and Richmond, improved performances elsewhere. “This election is wide open,” Pidgeon enthuses. “We’ve got a new field of candidates and I’m hopeful that as the most experienced candidate with eight years at City Hall, Londoners will give the Liberal Democrats a good vote.” Those eight years have been as a member of the London Assembly, the 25-member elected body whose job is to hold London mayors to account. In addition Pidgeon was a Southwark councillor for 12 years until 2010. Whether that experience trumps Labour candidate Sadiq Khan’s 11 as a London MP including seven as a government minister as well as 12 years as a Wandsworth councillor, or Zac Goldsmith’s six years representing Richmond Park and North Kingston in the Commons is one readers may wish to chat about among themselves. But Pidgeon, aged 43, is certainly hands-on versed in the nuts and bolts of the mayoral remit and the workings of City Hall. As an AM she’s made her mark, particularly on transport issues. She’s already been seeking to do the same in the mayoral election campaign. Pidgeon opened the New Year by announcing her “half price by half-seven” policy, which would see a 50% cut in the price of Underground, rail, Docklands Light Railway and tram journeys that begin before 07:30. She says this would cost about £30m, partly financed by dropping Transport for London’s financial commitments to the controversial Garden Bridge project. She’d also want to introduce a one-hour bus ticket, a long-standing Liberal Democrat policy which Khan has judged worthy of half-inching.  Pidgeon does not say that finishing third in the mayoral contest would be a joy and a relief, but were I in her shoes I’d be content with that. In 2012 the Green Party’s Jenny Jones pushed the Lib Dem candidate Brian Paddick into a close fourth place. The party hadn’t finished that low in the table since the first mayoral election in 2000, when Ken Livingstone won as an independent ahead of Tory Steve Norris with Labour’s unhappy Frank Dobson pipping Susan Kramer for the bronze medal spot. The Assembly outcome was disappointing for the Lib Dems last time too, with their presence reduced from three seats to two. They’ll be happy to reverse that outcome this time round. Pidgeon retained her Assembly seat and is defending it again. It will be a surprise if she isn’t returned for a third stint as an AM, but a much bigger one if she ends up as mayor. The last opinion poll measured her support at 2%, trailing Ukip’s Peter Whittle on 4% and the Greens’ Sian Berry on 3% and running level with George Galloway. Khan led on 31% to Goldsmith’s 24%. But though Pidgeon’s battle looks set to be for the minor placings, winning it would give Lib Dems grounds for claiming they are on the comeback trail in London after being reduced to a single parliamentary seat in the capital last spring. They took 8% of the London vote overall. Mayoral elections are different, but 8% of first preference votes for Pidgeon on 5 May would almost double what Paddick got four years ago. He’d managed 9.6% in 2008. “We have been through a tough time politically,” she acknowledges. “But it seems to me that the time is right for Lib Dems in London.” She argues that the capital’s middle ground is opening up: Goldsmith is “anti-Europe, off to the right”; the Labour party is “really shooting off to the Left.” She sees Johnson as having drawn votes from the centre and Livingstone as having done the same before him. “And with respect, my opponents are not those big beasts,” she says. What about Berry and the Greens, often in competition with Lib Dems for the environmentalist vote and for electors disillusioned by the two larger parties? The key difference, Pidgeon thinks, is that the Greens are positioned to Labour’s left. She thinks they might get squeezed by Khan. That’s the big, bright side picture as she sees it. On policy, she’s offering goodies under five broad headings. The first of these, unsurprisngly, is housing. Pidgeon is promising “an Olympic effort” to get 200,000 new homes built over a four-year term including 50,000 directly delivered by the mayor, which would be a major departure from Johnson’s regimes. She calls these “council houses” because, amid the meaning mayhem now surrounding the word “affordable”, it is a term that people understand. However, those homes would actually be delivered by a special house building company set up by the Greater London Authority (GLA). They would be rented at London council home rent levels and on the same sorts of tenure terms - a type of self-financing, arms-length revival of what the London County Council used to do. The GLA-owned building company would be a London-wide variation on the model being used by Southwark Council (and being looked at by others) to help raise finance, get round government-imposed borrowing restraints and possibly protect against homes being lost through right-to-buy. An important source of cash would be the sums currently raised through the mayor’s Olympics precept, the £20 a year council tax add-on raised initially by Livingstone from 2006 to help pay for the 2012 Games. This is due to expire but Pidgeon says she would maintain it, bringing in up to £60m a year which would also improve the GLA’s borrowing power. She foresees being able to raise “up to £2bn” for house-building by that method “to build the homes Londoners need.” The other 150,000 units Pidgeon would aim to get built would be a mixture of market sale properties, private rental homes and intermediate “affordable,” including “rent-to-buy” dwellings for first time buyers. She anticipates being constructed mostly on public sector land, including the large quantity Transport for London (TfL) plans on developing, working with housing associations and private developers and others. Johnson does this already, but Pidgeon believes more could be done and much sooner. She would also seek to address skills shortage in the building trade in London, taking her cue from TfL’s tunnelling academy which trains up young people. On housing delivery in general Pidgeon strikes a firmly interventionist note. “You’ve got to boost supply, and I’m not going to rely on the private sector to do that because they haven’t delivered. They will find any excuse not to do genuinely affordable homes.” She adds that she believes the government is “trying to get rid of all council housing as we know it.” A Mayor Pidgeon would also want to help boroughs strengthen their private landlord licensing schemes and legal enforcement sanctions against bad ones. On policing, Pidgeon wants to restore reduced levels of community policing, increase the use of knife detection arches - she dismisses Johnson’s championing of them in 2008 as “a soundbite” - and improve education programmes to combat gang violence, including by installing youth workers in more hospital A&E departments. She praises the work of the charities Redthread at King’s College hospital and Oasis at St Thomas’s. Pidgeon also has specific goals for childcare. As the parent of a two year old - and formerly Southwark’s cabinet member for children and young people - she well understands the problem of finding the right kind of provision and the stress of “the mad dash to get to the nursery on time when your train is delayed.” She says that women in London are 10% less likely to return to work after having children than counterparts in the rest of the UK. “The hours available from most childcare providers don’t allow you to work the hours you need.” She’s looking at funding “more wrap-around childcare” with earlier starts and later finishing and also at training more childminders. She’s exploring raising a £50m mayoral fund through a £2 per night voluntary tourist tax on guests at London hotels. There is a health agenda too, which overlaps with transport-related air pollution. Pidgeon wants to speed up the introduction of electric buses and black taxis, the latter backed with subsidy to encourage cabbies to switch to them and a City Hall bulk buy of vehicles for leasing to drivers or garages. In addition, I’m assured that substantial measures to address “the huge issue” of road congestion can be expected soon. Pidgeon has won friends among London’s cabbies for her calls for stronger TfL regulation of Uber and other insurgents. She’d like to see higher safety standards imposed and stronger rules governing driver insurance. “I think we need to make sure that there is a level playing field, and that everyone is keeping to the rules. That’s where TfL must really strengthen its role as a regulator.” On public transport fares, she rejects Khan’s four-year freeze promise as too damaging to TfL’s investment programme but says she would peg rises to annual inflation rates. She’s bothered by zoning anomalies. “Bermondsey is now in the same zone as Stratford: that makes no sense, because Bermondsey is in Central London. Surbiton and Kingston are in zone 6 when they should be in zone 5.” A bigger ambition, which she acknowledges still needs detailed exploration, is to review how season tickets operate. “The way we all work is changing. We work flexibly and at different times. Some weeks we might work more days than others. I would like us to be able to buy, monthly or annually, a certain numbers of days on which you’d travel. It would help part-time workers and people who want to use the bus some days and cycle on others. The system we’ve got still assumes everyone works 9 to 5, Monday to Friday. The fares structure is really ancient.”There’s a strong thread of practicality in Pidgeon’s pitch, something she sees as underpinning what drew her to join the Lib Dems in the first place. “I think the difference between myself and some of the other candidates is that I’m an ordinary Londoner facing many of the challenges that everyone else faces - trying to bring up a young family in London, trying to juggle that with work and so on,” she says. “I came to London after I graduated, full of hope, full of excitement. Within a few years I was able to buy my first flat, above shops on Walworth Road. That was in 1998. I was lucky enough to get my foot on the ladder with a tiny bit of help from my parents - nothing like the amount of help children often need today. I want other people to have that hope as well. Too many things about London don’t work for Londoners. I’ve got the policies and the experience to put that right.” 