‘A small act of kindness to a troubled young man’  I adored Alan Rickman from an early age for his bigger, more widely known roles and became more interested in his more off the beaten track work, such as the incredible Snow Cake film he did with Sigourney Weaver in 2006. As a depressed teenager, often in and out of hospital with frequent, fraught experiences with social services, I wrote him a short letter telling him how his films brought some joy and escapism to my life. With a remarkably quick turnaround came a very encouraging, kind letter back and a signed photo. Thankfully, nearly ten years later, my life has turned around. I will remember this man and his kindness, creativity and compassion fondly for the rest of my life. I only hope he realised the comfort his humility brought to people like me all around the world.George      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Director Marc Evans; Sigourney Weaver and Alan Rickman at the premiere of Snow Cake The Edinburgh International Film Festival 2006. Scotland, United Kingdom 15th August 2006 Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the Guardian‘Alas for Alan’  I directed a 13-year-old Alan Rickman at Latymer Upper School in Hammersmith. He played the town mouse in a musical version of Aesop’s fables. We won our section of the Hammersmith Drama Competition. I had just got into Cambridge and was working as a part-time teacher. Alan was quiet but very clever and inventive. 22 years later he played the James Stewart part in The Philadelphia Story for me at Oxford. As boy and man he was a talented, funny and gentle person.Gordon McDougall      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alan Rickman as ’Elyot’ and Lindsay Duncan as ‘Amanda’ in Howard Davies’s production of Noel Coward’s “Private Lives” at the Albery Theatre in London. Photograph: Peter Jordan/PA‘The patience of a saint’ I had the pleasure of seeing Alan Rickman on stage on a few occasions, the first time being in “Private Lives.” After seeing his captivating performance as Snape in the first Harry Potter film, and watching every single movie with him that was available, I also met him at the Berlinale in 2006 where he was promoting the movie Snow Cake. Me and handful of other admirers met him at the cinema of the Sony Centre in Berlin. Despite it being a cold February evening Alan greeted all of us cheerfully. He was particularly taken aback by two very young german girls and their mother. They were over the moon once Alan showed up and he scolded them with a lot of humor, telling them they shouldn’t be up at this hour. Alan was incredibly sweet and patient with them. Eventually they asked for an autograph and Alan bowed down, looked each of them in the eye, while asking, with a very gentle voice: “Wie heißen Sie?” He took his time with every single person present since he knew we had waited in the bone-chilling cold. I shall never forget what a patient and gentle soul he was.Birte, voice actress, Germany‘ Beautiful handwriting’ I wrote a letter to Alan Rickman in the early 90s asking for an autograph, with a rather cheeky supplementary section asking his advice about a drastic career change I was thinking about. I’d just finished university and was contemplating a career in economics and politics, or going off abroad to teach English. Little did I realize that within a couple of days I’d receive the autograph in the form of a three page letter, where Alan gave advice about my possible career change based on his own experience. So I eventually plumped for the English teaching and have never had any cause to regret it. I’ve lived in some lovely countries and met some wonderful people. It was such a remarkably generous and thoughtful act from a busy, talented person. He will be much missed.Brent Quigley‘Alan the mentor’ When Alan Rickman first saw me, I was wearing black tights and six inch red heels and was swinging around on a rope. I was playing Captain Hook in a devised production of Peter Pan in my final year as a student at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art. Later that year I had to suddenly apply for an Exceptional Talent visa just to stay in the UK and be able to work there as an actor. I wrote to Alan asking if he would write me a letter of recommendation to support my application. Not only did he respond very quickly, he wrote an initial draft in the first couple of days, trying to fulfil all the criteria that the UK Border Agency had put forward, and reassured me that he would help me in any way possible. He was incredibly kind and supportive through the whole process.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Extracts of the recommendation letters written by Alan Rickman to Tanmay Photograph: Tanmay Dhanania Eventually, despite our best efforts, I was unsuccessful in securing the visa. I wrote to Alan thanking him for all his help and had nearly decided that this was the end of my career, when he wrote me a most beautiful email, saying that sadly, these were the times we lived in, but to not give up hope, and that things can change and that I must keep on doing what I have to. I had no idea he was already unwell at this stage, but his enthusiasm and his optimism were infectious. I have since had roles in both television and film, portraying Naseem Ali Khan in Channel 4’s Indian Summers series, and starring in the film Brahman Naman premiering at the Sundance film festival this year. Many actors credit Alan’s performances as the reason why they took up acting. I had the incredible good fortune to be able to credit his words to me as one of the reasons why I remained an actor and am working today. All my love to him.Tanmay Dhanania, actor      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alan Rickman as Hans Gruber in 1988 film Die Hard Photograph: Allstar/20TH CENTURY FOX‘Just who is that guy?’ It’s 1988. My 10 year old son wants to see Die Hard. He needs an accompanying adult in order to get into the theater. That’s me. We walk into the Rivoli Theater, Wisconsin. Buy a big tub of popcorn and two cokes then settle into our seats. Two hours and 12 minutes later the lights in the theater come up as the credits roll. I don’t move until I find out who exactly is the actor that played Hans Gruber. Ah, Alan Rickman. Good. I vow to see every film he’s in, and I do until my MS renders me housebound. Movies just aren’t the same on DVD.slovenia46You can see all the Alan Rickman tributes and add your own on GuardianWitness