An artist who allegedly inserted political and religious messages into an X-Men spinoff comic has apologised, saying his career is over after fans complained about background images in the first issue of X-Men: Gold containing apparent antisemitic and anti-Christian references.On Saturday, publisher Marvel said it would remove the artwork from future versions after readers in Indonesia claimed that some images contained coded messages referring to political and religious tensions in the country. They alleged Indonesian artist Ardian Syaf had sneaked in references to hardline Islamist opposition to Jakarta governor Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, the first Christian governor of the Indonesian capital in half a century.Tjahaja Purnama caused controversy in Indonesia after saying that people should not believe Islamic leaders who use the Qu’ran verse Al Maidah 5:51 to claim Muslims can’t be led by non-Muslims. He later apologised for the statement.Marvel executive says emphasis on diversity may have alienated readers On one sign in Syaf’s X-Men illustrations shows the number 212, which in Indonesia is widely understood as a reference to Muslim protests held against Tjahaja Purnama last December. In another panel the character Colossus wears a shirt reading “QS 5:51”.Syaf denied the illustrations promoted religious intolerance. In a post on Facebook he wrote: “It is number of JUSTICE. It is number of LOVE.” He added: “My career is over now. It’s the consequence what I did, and I take it. Please no more mockery, debat [sic], no more hate. I hope all in peace.”His post appeared after Marvel issued a statement to the ComicBook.com website saying that the images had been inserted without “knowledge behind its reported meanings”. Marvel added: “These implied references do not reflect the views of the writer, editors or anyone else at Marvel and are in direct opposition of the inclusiveness of Marvel Comics and what the X-Men have stood for since their creation.” It added that “disciplinary action” was being taken against Syaf, a freelance who has illustrated for the company and others for the last 10 years.Complaints about the artwork surfaced on social media at the end of last week. In one panel, Jewish character Kitty Pride appears in front of a shop sign with the word “Jewelry” [sic] half-covered, leaving the word “Jew”. Marvel came under fire from readers in Indonesia for allowing the images, with critics labelling the artist’s action shameful. In an open letter posted on Facebook, fan Haykal Al-Qasimi warned the publisher that the images were used to “spread hatred”, an accusation Syaf fiercely denied. Al-Qasimi wrote: “I don’t think you and your comic readers would want your comics to be used to spread hatred based on [a] person’s religion.”It is a sharp reversal for the artist. A week earlier, he had appeared on the Marvel website in a promotional interview for the X-Men series, saying that the job of reimagining classic costumes was a “dream come true”. But this is not the first time Syaf has used background art to voice his political beliefs; a 2012 issue of Batgirl contained a reference to Indonesian president Joko Widodo, in support of his campaign at the time to become governor of Jakarta.