The death knell has been ringing for the high street for a surprisingly long time: every November and December ushers in fresh cries of lamentation about how our habit of staying online and ordering Booker prize winners in our onesies has killed off the independent retailer. Undoubtedly, these are legitimate concerns. We know that the first businesses to go during the recession were small, niche, local or all of the above. We know that these types of businesses have to charge higher prices out of necessity, and that most of us jumped ship when faced with stubbornly low wages and high living costs.Most of us even feel at least slightly guilty when we see the effects of this behaviour, casting our eyes with twinges of regret over a town centre now dominated by charity shops and gambling outlets. But most of us also recognise that a fair share of the guilt should lie with those online retailers, the Asoses, Amazons and Expedias of this world, who have taken advantage of our high streets' long-standing terminal illness and made one hell of a buck out of it. And it wasn't just the small, independent business that suffered, if anything drew attention to the human cost of previous industry behemoths going into administration after their customers migrated to online outlets, it was the HMV Twitter hack  back in January: "We're tweeting live from HR where we're all being fired! Exciting!! #hmvXFactorFiring". Indeed, any customer service job has been at stake for a long time now – Amazon is even considering using old London Underground ticket offices as drop-off points, presumably after all the remaining underground staff have been disposed of.So how exactly do you even begin an ethical Christmas shop? Yes, you should resist the urge to do it by opening the lid of your laptop, and instead pull on some sensible shoes and prepare to battle the crowds. Yes, you should support your local businesses. And yes, you should keep trudging down the high street despite the fact that you might well save money if you stayed at home and clicked. Oh, wait.It turns out that you haven't been saving as much money as the internet had led you to believe. The latest Financial Times examination of Google Shopping – previously known as Froogle, possibly because it did actually help you save money in its original form – suggests that its mechanism essentially pushes up prices for consumers. This is because Google now allows merchants to bid for the chance to appear higher in search listings. As a retailer, once you've paid for that privilege, you may as well reimburse the costs by charging higher rates for your product. And that's exactly what the FT says has happened: based on their analysis, shoppers who buy from the Google Shopping listings pay more than they need to about 85% of the time.If you watched the BBC Panorama exposé on Amazon this week, you'll know why you should avoid Amazon: 11 hours spent trudging round depressing halogen warehouses didn't look much fun to me, and clearly didn't feel like it to the undercover journalist employed as a picker for the international supplier. There are some genuinely brilliant and accessible alternatives to online shopping, where you might even gain some actual human contact points by trading literary tastes with an assistant and browsing for a title, rather than being directed to the latest bestsellers by a website's algorithm. The Alliance of Radical Booksellers, for instance, is a collective comprising some of the most ethical stores in the country. Elsewhere, try to buy your Christmas dinner ingredients from greengrocers nearby that deal in seasonal food as much as possible. Avoid the distasteful fashion trend for real fur. Stay out of Topshop and its Arcadia cousins, however tempting their wares may be: remember the creative taxpaying of its billionaire CEO, Sir Philip Green. Save up for next year's big spend with a credit union. And pick up a copy of the Big Issue on your way home.Chances are that at least a small proportion of your yuletide celebrations will be unethical: the country of origin of the baubles might get forgotten, for instance, while you check whether the Tofurkey was made out of free range eggs. But there's no need to grow a halo this Christmas, you just have to open your eyes a bit. Once you realise that Google is playing you for a fool and realise the way Amazon is treating its staff, it becomes a lot easier to avoid them. Figures on convenience stores are already challenging the supermarket "big four", so it appears consumers have already begun to vote with their feet. If things continue as they are, the high street could experience a full-blown resurrection by Easter.