I like it when bumblebees go at it with courgette flowers. They come out dusted in brilliant yellow pollen, like a sherbet bomb all dazed and confused. Sometimes I think this is reason enough to grow courgettes and their siblings, summer squashes. That, and all the wonderful fruit that is a byproduct of that pollen love-in.This weekend is the perfect time to sow them if you haven’t already. Cucurbits, whether that’s cucumbers or courgettes, squash or pumpkins, resent cold, wet weather and are easy targets for slugs. If you have plants on the windowsill that can’t hold themselves upright, start again. Floppy seedlings will be slug fodder and nothing more.Plants sown in the next two weeks will catch up quickly with earlier sowings and crop just a beat behind. Because the harvest season is short, make a further sowing at the end of the month to create a little succession.Anyone who has suffered a courgette glut knows a healthy plant is prolific. If you keep on top of picking, you should get around 20 fruits per plant. Five plants is more than enough for a family of four.It can be pricey to buy five or six different varieties: ask around and see if you can swap seeds. Facebook often turns up someone who’s germinated the entire packet and is overrun.Courgettes germinate at about 16-20C and do so fast, regardless of whether you sow the seed on its edge or flat. Maintain the temperature at about 15C until you have the first adult leaves. These babies love to grow, so turn seedlings often to prevent lopsided, leggy growth. When you have two adult leaves, harden off outside and plant out when the third leaf is just appearing. Hardening off in a cold frame or under fleece will take about two weeks; by that time, any fear of frost should have passed.Courgette plants love to eat and drink, so start feeding from midsummer onwards, particularly if growing them in pots. It also worth mulching around plants to keep weeds down and water locked into the soil – grass clippings work well.If it is cold in late spring, you’ll find you get lots of male flowers that don’t produce fruit. Sometimes the first fruits are misshapen and the ends rot, which is due to poor pollination. As more female flowers appear, things will sort themselves out.Alys Fowler: growing sunflowers from seed There are many varieties to chose from: round, long, bent, pattypan, pale green, sunshine yellow and stripy. ‘Midnight’ and ‘Patio Star’ are both compact bush plants, ideal for containers and tiny gardens.Courgette ‘Tromboncino d’Albenga’ likes to climb and has attractive fruits; it’s great for arbours and trellis. ‘Eight Ball’ is a wonderful one for stuffing. ‘Nero di Milano’ makes a good, open bush plant and has early, dark green fruit. ‘Rugosa’ (from Seeds of Italy) and ‘Summer Crookneck’ (from The Real Seed Catalogue) are summer squash (essentially, they mature to have a harder skin), but, picked early, the wonderful, knobbly fruit have a great flavour and can be eaten like courgettes.