Volkswagen’s luxury flagship Audi has suspended two engineers after its larger diesel engines were found evading emissions limits in the US. VW and Audi notified US authorities last week that about 85,000 vehicles with 3.0 litre V6 diesel engines were fitted with emissions-control equipment that was not disclosed to US regulators, Audi chief executive Rupert Stadler said. The news widened the scandal at parent VW, which has led to the removal of its long-time chief executive and wiped more than €20bn off the group’s market value.South Korea orders Volkswagen to recall 125,522 cars over emissions scam  Audi is now investigating whether employees in technical development and other departments deliberately manipulated emission-control devices. It has suspended two engineers, Stadler told the Donaukurier regional newspaper, without giving any further details.The V6 diesel engine was designed and assembled by Audi at its factory in Neckarsulm, Germany, and widely used in premium models sold by the group’s VW, Audi and Porsche brands in model years 2009 through 2016, Audi said. The Audi suspensions take the number of officials confirmed to have been put on leave across the VW group after internal investigations to eight, including at least six senior individuals. Audi, which is based in Ingolstadt, Bavaria, has said it failed to notify authorities in the US of three so-called auxiliary emissions control devices (AECD) in luxury models, one of which is classified there as a banned “defeat device”. The admission from Audi, which contributes about 40% to VW group profit, is raising pressure on Stadler, a 25-year VW group veteran who has led Audi for nine years. Asked by Donaukurier about potential personal consequences, the 52-year-old Stadler said: “What’s at stake now is (to find out) the truth and I will not rest until everything is on the table.” A spokesman for Audi’s works council, which has about half the seats on the carmaker’s supervisory board, said the company’s labour boss would comment on the situation later on Thursday. Audi Chairman Berthold Huber “has expressed no criticism (of Stadler) whatsoever”, a VW spokesman said, citing a “continuous dialogue” between VW and the former IG Metall union chief. 