It was 1958, and I was a 30-year-old single mother with a design studio in Zurich. After seeing an exhibition of Le Corbusier’s paintings, drawings and sculptures at the Kunsthaus in 1957, I traded my beloved car, a Fiat Topolino, in exchange for my first work by Le Corbusier – a small collage. As the proud owner of this original, I imagined myself to be the richest woman in the world.Then, through a mutual friend, an occasion to meet Le Corbusier came up as he was looking for a buyer for the Badovici-Eileen Gray Villa, the residence next to his in France. I agreed to take on the real estate assignment so, with a phone call, a meeting was arranged and I was on a flight to Nice the next morning.It was very emotional for me: not only was I to meet Le Corbusier for the first time, but it was also the first time I travelled by plane. I met him in the Restaurant L’Etoile de Mer at Cap Martin, and yet it was as if we had known each other for a long time. He was dressed in his trademark dark suit, papillon (bow tie) and dark glasses. In that very first moment when we shook hands, the secret of the understanding that developed between was cemented. I told him I’d like to sell his furniture. He said, ‘But everybody finds it old fashioned’ During the seven years of our creative collaboration that followed, we didn’t need many words. The confidence we had in one another was strong. By the strength of the intensity of his handshake, he transmitted his energy to me, his will, his wish, his knowledge. At the wonderful meal we ate together, set against a magnificent view of the Mediterranean, I expressed my wish to manufacture and sell his furniture, which he had originally designed in 1928. He was a very modest man and responded to my praise in an enquiring and slightly mocking tone: “Do you really think [they are worth producing]? Everybody finds my furniture old fashioned.”Undeterred by his bashfulness I mentioned my desire to acquire one of his oil paintings, stating that I even preferred them to his architecture. Reflecting on my admission, he confided that he believed: “If one appreciates my architectural works, then their real value must be attributed to the paintings. However, people continually categorise them as bidet paintings!” He then asked me: “How much are you willing to pay for a painting?” I answered spontaneously but without hesitation: “Monsieur, I have 10,000 Swiss francs [£825 at the time] in the bank.” He was amazed by my reply and initially quite perplexed so he questioned me: “Do you really want to pay that much for it?”The world-renowned architect was an artist in the truest sense of the word who worked hard and strove to bring his visions to life with exceptional perseverance and persistence, yet he remained incredibly humble.Three oil paintings by Le Corbusier will be offered in Christie’s Impressionist & Modern Art Evening Sale in London on 28 February. For details, go christies.com/auctions