All the leaves are brown and the sky is grey as I leave dreary Britain for my date with celebrity destiny … in Los Angeles, California. I was heading for the Academy Awards, little knowing that the ceremony would be crowned with a moment of gorgeous and historic chaos, with Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway giving the best picture award to the wrong film and creating the biggest YouTube moment since Susan Boyle appeared on Britain’s Got Talent.But it wasn’t the fault of poor old Beatty and Dunaway, the presenters whose careers must now permanently include this embarrassing moment. It seems someone had somehow passed the envelope announcing Emma Stone’s best actress Oscar for La La Land into Beatty’s hand – and Beatty, after some understandable befuddlement, and equally understandable reluctance to stop the proceedings while he asked someone in charge what on earth was going on, just thought he and Dunaway had no choice but to assume that La La Land was the winner. That film’s entire team came triumphantly on and then had to be ignominiously herded off while Moonlight’s team straggled on for their anti-climactic and muddled moment.Everyone I spoke to afterwards had a shocked, dazed, almost PTSD-ish memory-fragmentation when it came to the moment of disaster. We had all zoned out a bit at the end of a long ceremony, but woke up with a start when La La Land producer Jordan Horowitz announced that it was a mistake, that Moonlight has won, and said what must for him have been sickening words: “This is not a joke.”Don't let that Oscars blunder overshadow Moonlight's monumental achievement After that brush with the cockup-iceberg, our awards-season flagship Titanic was to limp very sheepishly into port. But what a very exciting voyage!It was a hell of a way to “pop my Oscar cherry”, as another journalist put it, as we milled around aftwards, dazed and enthralled at the realisation that something extraordinary had happened at the Oscars.After growing up watching the Academy Awards on the BBC’s edited highlights and latterly years of watching them live overnight on television in the Guardian’s offices in north London, I was, for the first time, attending in person. After a professional lifetime slumped in dingy screening rooms wearing a fleece covered in Doritos crumbs, I was bathing in stardust.Every British writer over for the Oscars knows the drill: ironic bemusement mixed with squeaking excitement. I was overdoing the last bit, as I mentally prepared to step on to the red carpet, enter the pre-ceremony champagne area, witness the ceremony itself and then mingle with the A-listers at the parties afterwards, like one of the grinning poor relations in The Pickwick Papers.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Actor Emma Roberts on the Oscars red carpet. Photograph: Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesThe tension had been ratcheted up even before I had arrived. The call came through that my proposed cameo at the Vanity Fair party had been greenlit. I would be allowed to attend between 11pm and midnight, and was instructed to pick up my ticket the day before from the Montage hotel in Beverly Hills. “The Montage?” I said, dangerously tempted towards Brit drollery. “I suppose my time there will pass quickly in a series of short, varied, representative scenes with Bonnie Tyler’s Holding Out for a Hero playing in the background!” This was met in a silence chilled with liquid nitrogen.The flight over? Nick Moran. Michael Shannon. Everyone gawped. I was coolly reading Mike Davis’s classic study of Los Angeles: City of Quartz. But, of course, that catchy La La Land song City of Stars made the title impossible to read without mentally crooning like Ryan Gosling.For the first time in my life, I was to be staying in a motel, and I had Saturday to settle in. This was on North Cahuenga Boulevard, not far from the Dolby theatre, within sight of the Hollywood Hills and the Hollywood sign itself. It was more Lynch than Hitchcock. The toilet had a plastic “hygiene strip” across the bowl that you had to remove before use, like a TV cop brusquely pulling away crime-scene tape. The bed had a red padded headboard and a creepy picture of Clark Gable on the wall. At night, you could hear the guy in the room next door breathing in his sleep. Or perhaps it was Clark Gable breathing.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Oyelowo ‘took my phone from me and took the picture repeatedly until he was satisfied’. Photograph: Peter Bradsahw for the GuardianOn Sunday, the first shock for me was how early in the day the show begins. I had vaguely imagined my limo purring up at 8 in the evening. But oh no. The event starts at 5pm and my cab had me and my companion – LA actor and comic Sarah Coomes – there at about 3.15pm, in broad daylight and thin drizzle. The red carpet part of the proceedings was quite unlike similar extravaganzas at film festivals: you go through a covered walkway into the separate, enclosed red-carpeted area bounded on either side by bleachers, seated terraces filled with paying-public onlookers who are continuously screaming with excitement, as the stars parade forward in lanes, like livestock. The dinner-jacketed men and beautifully dressed women – few of whom seemed to be under 7ft tall – are lit with a fierce mix of daylight and arc lights and everything is hyperreal and dreamlike. Time seems to slow down. You have the urge to giggle. Selfies are taken by the big gold Oscar statues, but this is to control and manage your mounting hysteria. The atmosphere is unrestrainedly happy. A director came up to me and said that my bad review of a movie he had made with Arnold Schwarzenegger was absolutely correct and justified. I spluttered with self-deprecation.Once in the Dolby theatre itself, the business of drinking champagne and eating canapes begins and continues for two hours on four separate levels. Then you are shepherded into the auditorium, on the cutely paradoxical basis that the more important you are, the lower your level, with supercelebs right at the front. The show is ready to begin.Here is where I had my second big shock. Everyone I had ever met who had been to the Oscars had assured me that the theatre and the whole event was surprisingly tacky and naff, like going to a cinema in a shopping mall. I didn’t think that at all – certainly not about the Dolby, which, although over the top, is colossal and stunning and rather beautiful. You get no sense of its hugeness and shape from TV. And the stage itself is an extravagant oyster shape, like the Hollywood Bowl. Every surface has a diamantine glitter, an effect accentuated by the starlight glow of thousand of smartphones in the audience.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Vince Vaughan ‘grabbed my shoulder as if I was a minor character in Swingers’. Photograph: Peter Bradsahw for the GuardianOf course, the ceremony itself is very long, and it stops, disconcertingly, every 10 minutes or so for TV ad breaks. Down at ground level, where the superstars are seated in full camera view, no one is allowed to leave, and if they are, people have to take their seats so that there are no unsightly gaps. But up in the gods, where we were, it was perfectly cool to wander in and out, have a few more drinks at the bar, and vaguely watch the proceedings on TV. I did that once – but was genuinely keen to return and watch. I found the Oscars live absolutely riveting as I have never found them before. It was absolutely hilarious when Jimmy Kimmel staged a Michael McIntyre-style stunt whereby a tour group was fooled into thinking that they were just going to see an exhibition of Hollywood costumes – and found themselves blundering into the auditorium itself. (They were rather unfazed. Could they have guessed what was about to happen?)It was a bit disappointing that the political content of the show was so muted. Obviously, a big reception for Asghar Farhadi’s The Salesman, but it seemed that there was no great appetite for protest. But I absolutely choked up at the In Memoriam section. And the tiny envelope moment when the presenter says: “And the Oscar goes to ...” – well, for the first time in my life, that was genuinely tense and exciting. So maybe you really do have to be there.Finally it happened. Oscargate. Wrongbestfilmgate. OMG. WTAF. The wrong-recipient error is the absolutely worst case scenario for any awards ceremony. Presumably, some producers are getting their P45s. But for all the rest of us, it was a delicious moment of pure chaos. Something super special. Gentlemen in England now abed, or just watching it on TV, will think themselves accursed they weren’t there. Afterwards, Col Needham, the IMDb chief, said that, eerily, he had been having a conversation on this very subject with Shirley MacLaine, who had asked what would happen if a mistake was made. She was told that PwC, the auditors, would insist on an immediate public rectification, right there on stage. And so it came to pass. We were hugging ourselves with innocent glee.The parties began, first the official Governor’s Ball, in which I had been instructed to do something pioneered by my brilliant and fearless colleague Hadley Freeman: get selfies. I was cringingly nervous about this, and had even rehearsed some jokey, strained apologetic nonsense about how I was doing an ongoing digital situationist critique of narcissistic culture – by getting celebs to do selfies with me. I needn’t have bothered. Everyone obliged. Pharrell Williams leaned coolly in, hardly noticing my self-conscious gurning next to him. Vince Vaughn grabbed my shoulder as if I was a minor character in Swingers. Mark Rylance was a perfect gent, David Oyelowo took my phone from me and took the picture repeatedly until he was satisfied and Ava DuVernay was just brilliant. Selfies are now entirely accepted: what happened to the days when people would ask for autographs, with pen and paper, and sometimes special 8x6 photos kept for the purpose? All utterly vanished.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Peter’s selfie with Ava DuVernay. Photograph: Peter Bradsahw for the GuardianThen on to the Vanity Fair party, at the Wallis Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts on Santa Monica Boulevard. This really was intensely swish, with huge VF murals, and there were very famous people there, who incidentally disproved the theory that celebrities are short. They are very tall. These people seemed to be 1,000-strong basketball squad of pure showbusiness prestige. I waited with Jon Hamm at the bar, noticed Zachary Quinto and his partner approaching, and saw Sacha Baron Cohen showing pictures of his children to two very beautiful women. I decided to give the selfies a rest.Everybody told me that everyone in Los Angeles is working on a screenplay and letting on that I was a critic would induce them to start pitching their latest project. And it’s sort of true. Vic, my minicab driver on the way to the Vanity Fair party, turned out to be Vic Cohen, an actor, writer and comedian who is the subject of a documentary called Committed and very voluble on the subject. Good for him.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Moonlight stars say Oscars blunder ‘disrespectful to La La Land’It was wonderful – and exhausting. I have been in Los Angeles 48 hours and it seems much longer, though not in a bad way. It’s just that after the ceremony there is a comedown. It’s like the scene at the end of Pretty Woman where the street dweller starts shouting: “What’s your dream ... ?” and I flinch in a way that I am not supposed to at the guy’s endless, haranguing optimism, which has surely outstayed its welcome and is somehow oppressive given that he is still living on the street. After a while, you reach a saturation level of fabulousness. You can’t absorb all the hormone-enriched supercharged excitement of Hollywood fever. You need to decompress, go away to a dark room and lie down with a damp towel. Certainly, I did. While others were getting into their SUVs and heading for parties given by Harvey, Madonna, Elton etc, I was heading back to my motel with the padded red headboard and the creepy picture of Clark Gable.This year’s Oscars is over and all the overlooked films (American Honey, Love and Friendship, Paterson etc) will just have to find their way. I am back in London tomorrow and will need something to cleanse the palate after this orgy of Hollywood glamour, some cultural equivalent of a sorbet. Maybe a showing of Andy Warhol’s 321-minute film Sleep.