David Greig, the recently installed artistic director of Edinburgh’s venerable Royal Lyceum theatre, says there are a hundred reasons why he chose a 2,500-year-old play to be the opening production of his debut season. But those familiar with the funny, sexy, challenging work of the award-winning playwright may be surprised to learn that one of them is a millennia-old pipe called an aulos.Greig had already been in discussion with director Ramin Gray and composer John Browne, with whom he collaborated on the internationally acclaimed The Events, about the possibility of staging one of the world’s oldest plays, The Suppliant Women by ancient Greek tragedian Aeschylus.“I was going to do an adaption and, incredibly hubristically, I thought the point of doing an adaption was to improve, to fix problems, and make it work for an audience as if it was written yesterday. But what I realised quickly was that Ramin and John were interested in the archeology of the work, and were coming at it from another angle.”Running the Lyceum could be David Greig's greatest show yet Meanwhile, Browne had discovered a specialist musical archeologist who had reconstructed and learnt to play an aulos, the ancient Greek wind instrument, akin to bagpipes, that provided the usual accompaniment to theatrical performances of that time. “Ramin was saying, ‘This instrument has not been heard for millennia!’, and I’m smiling, but thinking, ‘I bet there’s a reason for that’. Then we heard [a recording] and it was genuinely beautiful.” “For me there was a flash that I should go in precisely the other direction: instead of making this ‘normal’ for our audience, to go back, so the audience think, ‘My God, this is 2,500 years old but it’s talking to me as directly as if it was written yesterday’.”The modern-day parallels of the story of 50 young women who flee forced marriage in Egypt to seek asylum in Greece are plain enough. But for Greig, the resonances of the piece extend beyond the immediately political. “When I got the job at the Lyceum, I needed an opening show, but also [something that marked] the unrolling of a whole bunch of things that I think about theatre. Music is at the heart of it, and political engagement, and it’s a play from the birth of democracy, and Edinburgh is the Athens of the north … it was the obvious choice.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Neve Macintosh and Rudi Dharmalingham in The Events, David Greig’s previous collaboration with Ramin Gray and John Browne. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianTalking alongside his collaborators on a breezy Edinburgh morning, just as rehearsals are beginning in earnest, it is clear that Greig also wanted to call on their triumvirate energy, previously used to great effect in The Events, about the aftermath of a gun massacre. “There’s something about the way we work as a group of three that’s more than rigorous, that’s about pushing as hard as you can possibly push. And for an opening show it would have a vulnerability to it. There’s no point doing an opening show that you know everyone’s going to like: it had to feel like a worthy risk.”Irish composer Browne chips in: “The common feature [of how we work together] is dramaturgical. The three of us have that drive, and here the story is the smallest part of this piece, while the context is massive. It’s a very simple story that can be told and absorbed in a single sentence, but thematically and politically it’s very complex.”Gray, currently the artistic director of Actors Touring Company, adds: “There are all sorts of assumptions people make because of the way the technology of theatre has evolved over the past 2,500 years, but [this work] is about poetry, music, dancing, philosophy, politics, ritual …”Drawing these strands together is a chorus of non-professional local young women, representing the suppliants of the title. In ancient Greece, the theatrical chorus was like a finishing school for young men, Gray explains. It was, says Browne, “on the cusp between a religious ceremony and public entertainment and political debate”.But in modern day Edinburgh, as well as Belfast and Newcastle, The Suppliant Women will also be performed by local choruses, the cities represented on stage by 50 volunteers, aged between 16 and 30, whose voices will carry the performance. “There are 55 pages of just chorus!” Gray exclaims, as the young women, who are learning their lines by rote around a piano rather than from a script, plead for sanctuary. “But we haven’t told them that yet …” he adds jauntily.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ramin Gray, centre, in rehearsals for The Suppliant Women. Photograph: Alan McCredieGreig’s version is written in rhythm, and Browne says that he has stuck as closely as possible to the inverse and anti-verse choral device used by Aeschylus. “With the chorus, its about getting dynamic through antithesis, for example between war and justice. We’ve just allowed 50 refugee women in, but the worry is that this may lead to war in our city. The debate at the heart of the play is the current debate.”Gray adds: “It can be helpful when you have a very contemporary and pressing issue to look at it through a 2,500-year-old lens. It enables you to look at it in a more abstract way.”Greig pre-empts the charge that his adaption has shoe-horned in its current politics: “There will be people who say, ‘Well they’ve made this all about asylum seekers, and that line about Syria has obviously been placed’, and the frustrating thing is that all that stuff is already there – it isn’t imposed by us.”Gray interjects with delight: “In the fourth line in Aeschylus, Syria is name-checked!”For Greig, the usefulness to a contemporary audience is obvious: “We’re not watching propaganda and we’re not watching op-ed pieces; we’re watching stories and performances that require us to engage with each other. This play is primal, it’s the very beginning of what drama is, it’s a play from a year before democracy was invented in Athens.” (The original text also contains the first ever recorded use of the word democracy, and a public vote – on whether the women should be allowed to stay – is a key plot point.)“To have theatre and democracy linked like that, I think is a really important and profound statement about what the role and purpose of theatre is.”The Suppliant Women, a co-production between Actors Touring Company and the Lyceum, is at Edinburgh Lyceum from 1-15 October; Belfast international arts festival, 21-22 October; and Northern Stage, Newcastle, 3-5 November.