It could be the mildest 22 December since records began, with forecasters saying the unsettled weather sweeping across Britain could last until Christmas Eve.The uncharacteristically mild temperature on this year’s winter solstice, the shortest day of the year, means the Greater London area is the most likely to beat the record winter warmth of 16.1C set at Hoylake, Merseyside, in 1910.Forecasters MeteoGroup recorded temperatures of 14.3C (58F) at Heathrow and 15C at London City airport before 8am on Tuesday morning. Melting ice rinks and giant sprouts: is warm weather ruining winter this year? A MeteoGroup spokeswoman said: “We’ve not got a great deal of rising of temperatures to do to match the record and I think we could see that matched today.”A Met Office forecaster said: “It’s going to be a bit of a push to break it, but it’s a bit finely balanced. We will see a few bright spells towards the south-east and if any brightness develops at the right point, there’s a chance we could get to 16C at least.”The Met Office forecaster added: “Generally speaking there’s been quite a bit of cloud, but if the sun peeps through the clouds in early afternoon, it could just push the temperature up to 16C or something like that.”Rain in the south-east will clear away at first on Tuesday evening, with a cooler night following for all. Clear periods will however be broken up by scattered heavy showers and gusty winds. Wednesday will see cool and windy weather, with much of the UK largely dry with sunny periods.Met Office (@metoffice)Today is the start of #Winter in the astronomical calendar and is marked by the #WinterSolstice pic.twitter.com/tV3BVdC79pDecember 22, 2015The outlook however is less sunny for the north, with a wet and windy start to be followed by showers moving in from the north-west. There are warnings for rain on Tuesday in south-west Scotland, north-west England and west Wales. Though rain will hit some areas, Scotland too could see higher-than-average temperatures. Aberdeen could hit 12 or 13C on Tuesday morning and then drop off, with the afternoon temperature across Scotland more likely to be around 8 or 9C. The Met Office forecaster said: “The two main features of the weather are the rain today and then on Wednesday night there’s quite a deep area of low pressure passing by to the north-west of Scotland, which could give some very strong winds on Wednesday night coming into Christmas Eve morning.” If there is to be a white christmas it is likeliest over the highest ground in Scotland. The forecaster said: “It could just be cooling off across the hills of Scotland at times, giving a bit of snow, but it will be the highest ground in Scotland, so if there’s a white Christmas anywhere it will just be the mountains of Scotland. No sign of any significant cold weather for some time yet.”Rain and gales are to clear on Christmas Eve, according to the Met Office, leaving a colder night and a bright start to Christmas Day for some. But rain and strong winds will arrive again, continuing through to Boxing Day.