How excited should we be about The Young Pope? Very, probably. Written and directed by Paolo Sorrentino, creator of The Great Beauty and Youth, all signs point to the series being a strikingly auteured vision that could have only been created at this specific moment in time. Then again, The Young Pope is also a programme in which Jude Law plays an ambitious, American, cigarette-smoking Pope. That’s all we have to go on. The finished result could be a rehash of every male antihero trope that’s come to represent the golden age of TV. Fortunately, a trailer has just emerged. Let’s take a look.The trailer opens with a shot of Lenny Belardo – aka Pius XIII, the first American Pope in history – opening his eyes in closeup, just like the shot of Jack Shepherd that opened Lost. From this we can learn that Lenny is ambitious but flawed, that he’s propelled by a dark secret that’s given him a misplaced hero complex, and that he might be an antihero of some description.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Now we get our first proper look at the Pope. Notice that he’s sitting in almost exactly the same pose as Don Draper in Mad Men’s iconic opening titles. From this we can learn that Lenny Belardo is powerful and ambitious, and that we shouldn’t discount the prospect of him being some sort of antihero.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Here’s Lenny escaping the torments of his life with a moment of underwater calm, just like Nicholas Brody did in that episode of Homeland. From this we can learn that Lenny Belardo is being dragged along by a system he’s unable to stop, and that it’s looking very likely that he’s an antihero.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Here’s Lenny in prayer. “I’m a contradiction,” he says out loud. “Like Mary, virgin and mother. Like man, good and evil.” He’s breaking the fourth wall here, directly addressing the audience like Frank Underwood in House of Cards. From this we can learn that Lenny Belardo is so troubled that he can only reveal his darkest thoughts to an unseen friend, and that you should immediately put money on him being an antihero.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Finally, here’s Lenny kneeling before a row of lorries. From this we can learn that Lenny Belardo is unafraid to prostrate himself before the wheels of industry, that his compulsion for power causes him to undertake many unethical compromises, and that it’d save us all a lot of time if he just had the word “Antihero” tattooed across his forehead.That, in short, is The Young Pope trailer; in less than a minute, Jude Law seems to embody every broken male antihero the golden age of TV has ever offered up. But we’ll see in October; I may be proved totally wrong. With Sorrentino at the helm, I probably am. The Young Pope will air on Sky Atlantic in October. 