In 18th century London and the first half of the 19th, debt and its effects ate at the soul of society, as they do now. The difference was that in those days, debt was always personal. Those who owed did not fear credit card demands or banks, but people, streets and areas they knew. “It impacted on personal space,” explains distinguished London historian Jerry White. “People were moving around London all the time to avoid their creditors – moving rooms, avoiding certain streets or areas.” And failure to avoid could be disastrous: for want of as little as a few shillings, you could be thrown into a death pit of a jail. The subject of White’s new book is London’s most notorious debtors’ prison, the Marshalsea in Southwark. Mansions of Misery, his biography of the institution, which stood on two different sites on what is now Borough High Street, begins by describing London’s vast landscape of debt and its ubiquity in everyday life. Fearful debtors were everywhere. So were places for locking them up – London had more jails than any other city in Europe. Those dodging incarceration up could take refuge in The Mint, an area near the Marshalsea, which enjoyed an anomalous legal status protecting them from arrest.The Mint took its name from a coin-making facility founded by Henry VIII. That irony may have seemed the more crushing given that the debt problem was worsened by an undersupply of ready cash. “There was a shortage of copper coin and silver throughout all of the 18th century, particularly at the beginning,” says White. “So bills tended to accumulate. If you were very poor, a bill of two shillings and sixpence, if you didn’t have the coppers to pay it, could become a big amount to find.”The Marshalsea, originally located by the present-day Mermaid Court, began as holding cells for the ancient Marshalsea Court, narrowly avoided being razed by the Great Fire of Southwark in 1676 and in 1727 was leased to one of its former turnkeys, William Acton, a local butcher who, until he was removed in 1730, ran it as a cruel and extortionate private enterprise. By that time, debtors, both women and men, formed the core clientele. In the Marshalsea, they ran up more debts, as they failed to pay their rent or lawyers’ fees. Prisoners were fleeced, starved and tortured with instruments of medieval vintage.There was, though, a physical class divide between those on “the common side” of the jail, who were crammed like sardines in filth, and those on the master’s side, whose existence was privileged by comparison. White devotes a chapter to the extraordinary prison diary of successful musician John Baptist Grano, a chancer and social climber who was detained at the Marhsalsea for 16 months. He wrote his journal every day, paying particular attention to the meals he ate, some of them lavish, while others starved to death next door – 300 of them in the space of three months in 1729. “Today, we’d call Grano a foodie,” White says.Grano had deals with Acton, which enabled him to give lessons and even leave the jail to visit bars and to perform. He got his own room, a derelict one he had done up by other prisoners - debtor craftsmen who sold him their skills as part of jail’s often desperate internal economy. “Grano had money, he just wouldn’t pay people,” White says. But his prison life was not all roasts and songs. There were rows and vendettas against him. He was a closet Roman Catholic. He lived in fear of banishment to the common side.White documents the Marshalsea being run by dual power structures: the official one and that devised by the prisoners. The latter was so established and overt that when inmates were marched down the road to the new Marshalsea on Christmas Eve 1811, they carried a rulebook with them. Prisoners called the jail a college. The rulebook was redrafted by a lawyer collegian and is now lodged in the national archives. Discipline was enforced by an executive committee. Offences including soiling toilet seats, urinating in the wrong parts of the outdoor area, stealing and violence, though committee sanctions could be violent too.One chair of the executive was the new Marhshalsea’s most famous prisoner, John Dickens, father of Charles, whose writings, notably Little Dorrit, are infused with sober insights gained from the incarceration of his dad. Dickens Snr was sent down thanks to the legal action of a Camden baker, to whom he owed £40. Still receiving his full salary from the Royal Navy Pay Office, he could have coughed up and been released, but, as White writes, this would have “put him at the mercy of a pack of others, eager for a bite at his person”. He got out thanks to the 1824 Insolvent Debtors Act. This basically enabled all his creditors to cut their losses by accepting a portion of his total assets.There are many other remarkable characters in White’s book. In 1840, optician Joshua Reeve Lowe seized and disarmed a would-be assassin of Queen Victoria. A year and a half later, he entered the Marshalsea having mistakenly believed his heroism would endear him to a more upmarket clientele. In 1742, Irish writer Laetitia Pilkington was arrested in Duke Street for owing her landlady rent, called a “Papist bitch” by the bailiffs who came for her, and was soon rehoused in what was named “the worst prison in England”. Prizefighter Bishop “The Bishop” Sharpe’s descent from glory took him there after his failure to adjust to a more mundane way of life after losing a 90-minute, 91-round bout to Alec Reid, the “Chelsea Snob”, in 1828. It is primarily through the stories of the prisoners that White skilfully and meticulously recounts the prison’s history. In doing so he shines a wider light on London in those times. “The debtor’s prison overshadowed the lives of working people and the middle classes in London,” he says. “What I think is so interesting is that the whole regime of capitalism thought it needed this draconian measure of arrest and imprisonment, sometimes for a long time, as a way of disciplining the whole world of credit. They thought that without it, the whole system of credit, trust and borrowing would collapse, and with it the value of money and trade.”Jailed debtors were casualties of those anxieties. All paid a heavy price, many of the poorest with their lives.Jerry White’s Mansions of Misery is published by The Bodley Head, price £20. A surviving wall of the “new” Marshalsea prison stands in Angel Place, SE1. 