You’ve overdone it, again; gorged yourself on titular girls and titanium men, left that set of Penguin classics to stand untouched on the shelf. The excuses are: there’s no time, you’re tired, you need to ”switch off” in the evening. It’s time to get serious in 2017! Cancel that gym membership, remove all trace of kale from the blender and make some new year reading resolutions instead.I did exactly this at the start of 2016, when I was asked about my favourite authors. I smugly reeled off a list of names, displaying my immaculate taste and erudition.“Where are the women?” asked my inquisitor. I was confused. “On your list,” she said. “Where are the women?”I laughed and nodded, but left in a fit of panic. I read women, didn’t I? What kind of Gay Talese-type man monster would I be if I didn’t? So I examined my bookshelves for sexism and the result was desultory – barely a woman in sight. I was only in love with men, uxoriously devoted to William Gass and Stanley Elkin, to the point where the likes of Angela Carter and Mary Gaitskill didn’t get a look in. Was it purely taste? Was the type of fiction I adored intrinsically male? It was time to make amends: 2016 was my year of reading women.I had just read an essay by the author Ben Marcus, who, while defending the pleasures of avant garde fiction from the middle-of-the-road scorn of Jonathan Franzen, referenced many female writers I didn’t know. As a result, I got hold of Kate Braverman’s Lithium for Medea, a forgotten classic that is raw and honest, and her icy prose was as tough and beautiful as anything I’d read. After that, I became obsessed by the complex, fabulist tales of Mary Caponegro; a student of John Hawkes and Robert Coover, she talks about the male domination of avant fiction and her “wish to feminise the legacy of her mentors”. Caponegro is an important masthead for bold, adventurous fiction, flying her flags within flags higher and more meta than most.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cool brilliance … Jenny Diski. Photograph: Photoshot/Getty ImagesI was on my way. Jenny Diski’s cool brilliance was revelatory, Kathryn Davis’s irrealism a joy. Through the brilliant publishing project Dorothy, I discovered Joanna Ruocco, whose remote, repeating style unsettled and thrilled in equal measure. By spring, I was joyfully tumbling down the rabbit hole and greedily grabbing all I could. I was staggered by Jane Bowles and Joy Williams, awed by Lynne Tillman and Lorrie Moore, blown sideways by ZZ Packer. When Flannery O’Connor got lost in the post, I took solace in Deborah Eisenberg instead. I could go on. I did go on. The cliche that women writers ignore grand themes in favour of lighter motifs is woefully fallacious. Williams’s The Quick and the Dead and Lydia Millet’s LA cycle of novels are ambitious works of moral philosophy, books that scorch the soul and leave you weak-limbed and thirsty. Likewise, I found no preoccupation with domesticity, another common charge. The characters I read were lost and isolated, detached from family, surviving – or not – in a wider socio-political world. I had found women writers I loved; life-changers. I am truly a hetero-reader at last, both shamed and enlightened. So take it from me, reading resolutions work. They’re worth doing. And now it’s your turn. Make this year a year to read more women or finish more giant-sized classics, or perhaps read the entire Booker winners list.What are your suggestions for reading resolutions? I’ve got mine. Just don’t ask me who my favourite BAME authors are yet, I might start to cry. Ask Ben Marcus instead.