Three weeks ago, it went into voluntary liquidation; a meeting of creditors was held last week. Visit its website – once a portal to the most exciting new comedy in the country – and you encounter a blank page. Knock at the door of its hip, still-new venue in King’s Cross, and you’ll get no answer. For any fan of 21st-century live comedy, it’s grim news: the most creative comedy producer in the UK, the Invisible Dot, is no more.In fact, two companies went into liquidation last month: the Dot (as it was widely known) was originally a producer, founded in 2009; the venue – formally a separate entity – opened later, in 2013. Initially it worked with a generation that included Jonny Sweet, proto-Inbetweeners Simon Bird and Joe Thomas, Tim Key, Tom Basden, Mark Watson and Nick Mohammed; with Key’s and Sweet’s shows, it hoovered up the two major comedy awards at its maiden Edinburgh fringe. Later, it cornered the market not only in innovative standup, distinctively promoted and produced (later acts included Liam Williams and his sketch troupe Sheeps, Claudia O’Doherty, Jamie and Natasia Demetriou), but also in eccentric, comedian-led theatre projects such as Basden’s play Party and his later Crocodile at the 2015 Manchester festival.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tim Key performing in 2013 at the Invisible Dot. Photograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianWhen the venue opened in 2013, the possibilities seemed limitless for the Dot and its supremo, Simon Pearce. But the writing’s been on the wall since this time last year, when that King’s Cross hub dramatically reduced the scope of its programming. At the time, Pearce spoke to me about the shock of switching from their old Camden Town offices – where they staged one work-in-progress show per week – to presenting 350 shows per year in the new venue. “It is difficult to be a creative producer and venue,” he said. “They are very different types of business – and that’s been the most challenging part of our growth.” Prospects looked gloomier when the Dot pitched up at this year’s fringe, unusually, with only three acts.So what went wrong? Pearce isn’t saying. I spoke to him after the news broke, but he preferred to stay off the record and tight-lipped. I’ve chatted to ex-employees of the Dot and to comics on their roster. One paraphrased a line Williams once used to open a gig at the venue: “Welcome to the Invisible Dot. I hope you’re comfy: the Dot spends more on its font that it does on its chairs.” The chic sleekness of the Dot brand was always assiduously cultivated, to the degree that some felt excluded or imposed-upon – as per Mohammed’s interview with me last year. “I have to be careful what I say,” he said, as we sat in the Dot’s venue, before expressing his slight unease with the company’s hyper-cool, affectless house style. Its founder, Simon Pearce, saw the Dot as a reaction to the commercialism and the industrial nature of comedy elsewhere It was argued that the Dot never fully migrated from Pearce’s idiosyncratic vision into a workable company. Pearce was wedded to the template laid down by Factory Records (and its venue, The Hacienda) and legendary maverick Bill Drummond’s KLF: he saw the Dot in oppositional terms, as a reaction against the commercialism and the industrial nature of comedy elsewhere. And – more artist than businessman – he lavished time on burnishing that reputation rather than, say, selling tickets.All of which worked, for a while – particularly when bankrolled by the Paul Hamlyn Foundation, as the Dot was in its early years. But it wasn’t an idea that could easily be sustained in an industry enjoying its biggest ever commercial boom. Another argument I’ve heard about the Dot’s collapse is that Pearce was running a subsidised venue model, but without subsidy. The company dedicated its resources to cultivating new talent, but when that talent was developed, it justifiably pursued the many more lucrative opportunities elsewhere. Which is fine if, as a venue, you’re funded to do that. But the Dot wasn’t, because comedy venues, unlike some theatres, aren’t.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   When its King’s Cross venue opened in 2013, the possibilities seemed limitless for the Invisible Dot. Photograph: Jeff Blackler/Rex/ShutterstockThe truth probably lies somewhere between all these theories. For now, it might look as if Pearce has the Factory Records-style ending he was heading towards all along: the legendary Manchester record label went bankrupt after 14 years in 1992. But this story resists such a neat ending: Pearce has already registered a new company: New Promotions was incorporated on 6 October, although I’m led to understand it’s not trading and there are no current plans for it to do so.So now, we wait to see who picks up the baton for innovative comedy, in an unsubsidised industry where prioritising innovation and artist development now looks harder than ever. Angel Comedy in Islington launches “London’s first community comedy club” later this month, with a bold prospectus to train new comics and take the art form into its neighbourhood. Maybe green shoots will sprout there?And presumably, Pearce will be back. I’d say hopefully, save that I know some feel ill-treated by what they see as mismanagement at the Dot. For the most part, though, news of the company’s demise was met with genuine sadness in comedy circles. Pearce inspires devotion from many who’ve worked with him, as a rare figure who encouraged creativity, artistic ambition and a rebellious spirit over and above fame and fortune, stadium gigs and panel shows. His seven-year adventure will live long in the memories of those of us who shared in it and stands as an inspiring example of how exciting comedy can be when the new and different takes precedence over the proven. It’s sad news that it’s gone, but at least the Dot took us on a hell of a ride.Three to seeRussell Brand      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Enlightened? Russell Brand. Photograph: Carl Court/Getty ImagesTicket-holders to Russell Brand’s recently announced tour are being invited to participate in the show. What does the messianic one have in store for us this time? The blurb tells us that Exposed “questions whether [Brand] really is spiritually enlightened or just having a mental breakdown. By the end of the show … you decide!”Nottingham Playhouse 6 November; The Hawth, Crawley, 7 November. Then touring.Catherine TateTate’s heyday may be sufficiently distant now that interviewers confuse her most famous character with Matt Lucas. But there’s enough love and happy memories out there to comfortably justify an arena tour. New sketches are promised, featuring Nan Taylor, Essex girl Sam, and Lauren “am I bovvered?” Cooper, among others.Anvil Basingstoke 2 November; Sheffield City Hall 3 November. Then touring.Randy Writes a NovelA surprise nominee for this year’s Edinburgh comedy award, Heath McIvor’s muppet standup show now hits London. At the fringe, I wasn’t wholly convinced by the show’s existential overreaching and uncertainty surrounding Randy’s identity as felt puppet or human-by-proxy. But it’s undeniably a distinctive hour, with loud, off-the-leash gags and eye-catching animation skills on show.Soho theatre, London, 7-19 November. 