Victoria’s Golden Plains festival celebrated its 10th anniversary in March. The line-up featured Sleater-Kinney, the Buzzcocks and Violent Femmes but it was Australian acts Royal Headache, No Zu, the Necks and Black Cab that thrust enthusiasm into ecstasy.After six years off, garage rockers Eddy Current Suppression Ring were especially transcendent – oh, the power and the glory! The night air in the amphitheatre was startled, then electric. Looking out at the heave of flesh and flash of sweat, singer Brendan Huntley seemed in a daze of disbelief too.It was a gig that united. For Australians left cold by sport, church, rallies or stadium shows, opportunities to be beamed-up on a collective high are limited. But it is therapeutic to be involuntarily ejected from whatever hand-picked small scene you’ve hunkered down in and surrender to something big. Festivals are music-lovers’ chance to do this but we need the festival band. Eddy Current Suppression Ring were that band. From the opening chords of Memory Lane they cannon-fired us into a place where – as strangers, 10,000-strong – we could reclaim a dirty word: pride. Sydney lockouts: seven creatives give their views – and none of them are good Royal Headache is a band that inspires pride, as well, at a time when the noose on the neck of live music in Sydney is jerked to suffocation point. The greatness of all 10 acts short-listed for the Australian Music prize this year made me proud too, as did Henry Rollins’ comments after his recent visit. “The number of excellent bands [in Australia] is more infestation than phenomenon,” he wrote. “They seem to be everywhere.”Everywhere they are. Infesting the cracks, crannies, beaches, bush and desert plains. Appearing on the surface of the music pool for as long or as loudly as their promo budget allows, becoming waterlogged by time and diminishing funds; see-sawing down into less visible water. Envisage this column as a leaf scoop extended over the pool to net the ones that would’ve got away. And if you like what you hear, please pay for it – provide some financial and emotional buoyancy to the music-makers. Also, let us know: what did we miss? Gentleforce – Refuge from the Great SadnessFeature track: You Hold My Hand Through the Gate<a href="http://gentleforce.bandcamp.com/album/refuge-from-the-great-sadness">Refuge from The Great Sadness by Gentleforce</a> Sydney solo artist Gentleforce (Eli Murray) makes music for the ages. I still have his meditative techno record from 2010, Sacred Spaces, on high rotation. Here, Murray layers textured sound, tape hiss and vocal clips from films over field recordings he gathered in Japan, Europe and country New South Wales. Cockatoos screech and swoop into low-end buzz and you marvel at how many ways music can sound quintessentially Australian. This record explores themes of depression, anxiety and exhaustion – with a purpose. “It was created out of a need for escapism,” Murray says. “It is designed to drown out fear.” The title, then, is literal. Fitting, because it is this openness that makes Murray’s songs operate as heart translations, beating with sentiments so graspable and uplifting he makes other music producers seem like impenetrable, chin-stroking wonks. The depth of emotion on Dissolve Into Fire, with its sunbeams of heat-rippled organ and tumbling piano, verges on unbearable. And when I saw, on Bandcamp, a $7 price tag on this album, I felt like crying.The Kill Devil Hills – In On Under Near WaterFeature track: Hydra <a href="http://thekilldevilhills.bandcamp.com/track/hydra">Hydra by The Kill Devil Hills</a>In the late 90s, the Kill Devil Hills singer and guitarist Brendon Humphries was in the Gutterville Splendour Six with Gareth Liddiard and Rui Pereira of the Drones. The Kill Devil Hills didn’t move “over east”, though, and you can’t walk 10 paces with Humphries in his hometown of Fremantle without a beery slap on the back or a gag about the last gig. The Kill Devil Hills were once pigeonholed as bushranger rock but the mandolins are long gone and, since forming in 2003, each record has out-scorched the last. Clocking an hour, In On Under Near Water is a brilliant showcase of what the Devils do best. From the redemptive round robins of Good Times to the idling frontier menace of The Nets, feedback leaping into flame like a match flicked on a petrol stain. No one wrings a ballad dry quite like Humphries, and his lyrics, always good, have slimmed into sleek, allusive poetry. Best of all? All the bad, bad things you want to do, incited by the sick stomp of Hydra or the rockabilly slurs of I am the Rut, I am the Wheel.No Zu – AfterlifeFeature track: Ui Yia Uia   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Deep in the throng of an early 90s Athens disco, men in puffy sleeves are playing sax. There are Latin American percussive jams, shouty female vocals a la the B-52’s or ESG and styles that swerve from acid house to Italo house. Mashed up, but spaced-out, No Zu are the fusion you’ve been craving since your crop top, hot pants and whistle were laid to rest.The “heat beat” of this visionary Melbourne eight-piece celebrates a bygone era of clubbing. Unlike a lot of referential music, No Zu are possessed by the past instead of scholars of it – so their dance music is heady and hedonistic, first, and clever, second. Somewhere in the euphoria they raise themes of multiculturalism, colonialism, Australiana and body image – but they don’t know where to put them. Are they pro? Anti? On the rabbit-proof-fence? No matter. Their show at Golden Plains was wild and woozy and the lyrics chanted by Becky Sui Zhen and Daphne Camf resonated with feminist ‘tude. “You follow, with your eyes / Don’t you follow, evil eye.”Scattered Order – Some Men Remember MusicFeature track: What’s that in Euros?   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest From 1979 until 1988 all releases from Sydney post industrialists Scattered Order were on vinyl. Then the world changed. “Electronic music became completely mainstream and CDs … virtually killed off vinyl record production,” lament the band. This is the first vinyl release from Scattered Order since ‘88 and it’s worth the wait. Now, as then, Scattered Order breathe in life and breathe out weird – a danceable version, perhaps, of the decades-long experimentalism of UK recluses Nurse With Wound.This record works best on immersion in its noise and ooze; letting it creep over you like flesh-eating fog. Amid the disorientation are moments of true beauty – as on I Remember Diamonds, where the Battlestar Galactica-esque Cylon sounds are backed by blossoming viola-like synth. Lo-fi samples – many from foreign TV networks – bubble forth in the brew, making the experience as visual as it is aural. So if you lie down to listen (highly recommended) close your eyes too. Then get up to goth-dance to the industrial beats of Sqitch.Francis Plagne – Funeral MutesFeature track: Hearing Every Drop   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The talent of Melbourne folk singer, guitarist and composer Francis Plagne was showcased last month in a humid Sydney lounge room. Rather than distract from his playing, the noise of trucks swishing by in the rain outside added to the ambience. This welcome interjection of everyday sound would’ve been easy to explain had Plagne been experimenting with musique concrète (which he does) but he wasn’t: he was performing soft, percussion-less renditions of songs from Funeral Mutes. And still, the truck noise found its rightful place. Plagne’s songs have a way of opening up space; of generating – instead of consuming – the quiet.His collaborators on Funeral Mutes are accomplished musicians including drummer Joe Talia – whose free jazz drum solo on Spirited Yolk is wonderful – and James Rushford. Plagne sings sans effects with the meticulous delicacy of that other rare Melbourne folk player, Paddy Mann (Grand Salvo). The eccentricity of Canterbury folk is an influence but Plagne’s style – simple on the surface and micro-cosmic beneath – is all his own. Tralala Blip – Oceans of LoveFeature track: Wax FigurineUnsound Adelaide review – breaking ground with unorthodox live sounds <a href="http://tenthcourt.bandcamp.com/album/oceans-of-love">Oceans Of Love by Tralala Blip</a>This cassette from Lismore electronic group Tralala Blip was released the day they opened Unsound festival in Adelaide. Its songs partially recapture the jubilation that flowed from stage to audience within the gig’s first few minutes. Tralala Blip did not – as others might – artfully conceal their excitement to be there. They were absorbed in the gear they were using to concoct their unique sound but utterly in the moment too; one member doing point-and-spin dance moves that saw ear-to-ear grins all round.Formed in 2007 by Randolf Reimann, Tralala Blip is five musicians with and without disabilities. Once of Sydney metal band Massappeal, Reimann describes the group’s uniting force as “raw self expression”, similar to early punk and post-punk gigs. All members sing or contribute spoken word, and while their voices are heavily treated with delay or pitch shifters, they are not made uniform, giving their records a wide spectrum of moods. On the claustrophobic Wax Figurine, Phoebe Rose’s vocals hover eerily over a ragged, loping crunch while the aptly-titled Oceans of Love expands airily – so light and contented its only flaw is ending too soon. Luke Daniel Peacock – We’ve Come a Long Way DarlingFeature track: Born Into a Battle<a href="http://lukedanielpeacock.bandcamp.com/album/weve-come-a-long-way-darling">We&#39;ve Come A Long Way Darling by Luke Daniel Peacock</a>In 2014, Brisbane-based First Nations musician Luke Daniel Peacock did us the service of unearthing The Loner, the 1973 album of Bidjigal man and country singer, Vic Simms, and re-animating it as a covers record. Peacock plays keys with Brisbane group, Halfway, too, but he’s too good to stay in anyone’s shadow as his debut here proves.  This country rock record was recorded fast, with friends including Jhindu Lawrie of the Medics, but its songs have simmered in Peacock’s head for years. The opening track, Dreambox, is Springsteen from its husky voice to its dusty boots but when it’s this well executed, that’s hard to resent. The wounded epic, Born Into a Battle, packs Peacock’s signature punch – veiled but hard-hitting: “I was born into a battle / I don’t need your push and shove”. Throughout, the production is full and the guitars are rich and intricate. It’s the kind of record that would make Tamworth country music festival sway and sing along but – with the right cast of players – could be revelatory as arena rock too.Purple Pilgrims – Eternal DelightFeature track: Forever   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest When the Christchurch earthquake levelled their home, sisters Valentine and Clementine Adams fled to China where they’d lived as children, making beautiful noise that found form as diaphanous dream-pop, which they played on tours with admirers such as Ariel Pink and Gary War. Returning to record their debut in a shed in rural New Zealand, the resulting LP could’ve come direct from golden era 4AD Records when the Cocteau Twins still roamed.There are vintage organs and some gestural percussion but this is very much a choral record – less noir than never-endingly twilight. On a first listen, a flurry of adjectives flow: ghostly, hazy, ethereal, mystical, angelic, spectral, sensual. A quick poke through the press materials reveals everyone has said the same. A victory for Purple Pilgrims in crafting a record so steeped in a specific mood that readings of it are firmly reined in. And yes, the Adams sisters are New Zealanders (from time to time, this column will also feature artists from across the Pacific).Miazma – NorthFeature track: North   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Miazma are a metal band from Alice Springs who’ve twice won the “heavy” category in the Northern Territory Song of the Year award. Capitalising on the tyranny of distance, Miazma say the desolation of Alice Springs has given them “a wasteland sense of identity” – a claim so metal it comes with devil horns already half-sprouted.Their collision of thrash, technical and death metal is not new (think Gojira) but metal’s funny like that – in the right hands, there’s a lot to love in its showy cliches, especially in songs as entertainingly episodic as The Defected Era. The band’s vocals duel between death growls (that you can actually understand) and hoarse screeches. Add some blast beats, tempo changes, chugging guitars and an ambient lull or two and you’ve got metal to drive to. Which is lucky, given Miazma have clocked 30,000km touring thus far and say they’ll drive all night to play one show to a crowd of rabid headbangers.