On Friday, the third winner of the Wainwright prize for nature writing was announced. The prize has mirrored the growth of a particular phenomenon over the last few years: the rise of books about our relationship with nature. Year by year we have better understood that nature writing, far from being an escape from reality, is an ever more pressing commentary on the state of our country and our planet, the politics and policies that shape public debate about nature, and the questions we need to confront.But it’s also deeply personal. Of this year’s six shortlisted books, five were memoirs of various kinds, with nature offering a sort of redemptive journey. Last year’s H Is for Hawk was the archetype. This year we had: Rob Cowen’s Common Ground, the discovery of his local “edgeland” as paternity approached; The Outrun by Amy Liptrot, with its raw and personal story of her battle with drugs and alcohol; Mike McCarthy’s The Moth Snowstorm describing how his mother’s mental illness triggered his lifelong passion for nature; Katharine Norbury’s The Fish Ladder, in which her difficult experiences are redeemed through her exploration of rivers and their sources; and James Rebanks’ warm, passionate The Shepherd’s Life which reminds us how nature and humans are – in his case at least – hefted to their place. Even Robert Macfarlane’s wonderful Landmarks, while not consciously a memoir, draws heavily on his experience of nature, people and place in his call to protect the vocabulary and rich linguistic inheritance whose origin lies in our relationship with nature.Our winner, the product of intense debate, was the book over which we agonised the most, because of its unsettling and sometimes shocking content. Was it even, we asked, a nature book at all? But it is. Liptrot’s remarkable, revelatory story, set in London’s underbelly and Orkney’s wild, windy and remote landscapes, shows how she discovers herself and her route to freedom by immersing herself in the world of corncrakes and sea bird monitoring. Liptrot did not seek nature, but nature sought her, and her spare, lyrical prose is both powerful and tender.Books such as The Outrun reflect a vital need we all have to observe, connect with and respect nature. This is not a balm, or a superficial response to the uncertainty in the world around us, but the ultimate source of our ability to heal ourselves and reconnect with our future.