The poet Robert Frost said there are two kinds of teachers: “The kind that fill you with so much quail shot that you can’t move, and the kind that just gives you a little prod behind and you jump to the skies.” By all accounts, Larry Sultan was the second kind. An accomplished photographer with works in the permanent collections of museums like the Tate Modern, the Whitney and the Guggenheim, he began a 20-year teaching career in 1989 at California College for the Arts in San Francisco, mentoring young hopefuls while observing in his own work the absurdity, pathos and alienation of middle-class suburbia.His work has been collated in Larry Sultan: Here and Home, which is wrapping up a national tour at San Francisco’s Moma through 23 July. Also included is his collaboration with photographer Mike Mandel, Evidence, as well as proto-street art billboards from the beginning of his career, and his final series, Homeland, unfinished at the time of his death in 2009. “It’s all about vernacular ideas and extracting that to make something personal and meaningful,” explains curator Sandra Phillips.Pictures from Home by Larry Sultan review – when Mom and Dad lived the dream Sultan grew up in the 50s and 60s in the San Fernando valley, just over the hill from Hollywood. Car culture was cruising into the national fabric, the aerospace industry was taking off and suburbia was starting to sprawl. “Where we came from there was no history to our part of the world,” Mandel says. “A generation before us there was almost nothing in the valley. We saw all the development, all shopping malls, the cars and freeway. That was our backdrop.” When Mandel met Sultan in the 70s while studying at Art Institute of San Francisco, conceptual photography was blossoming in Los Angeles with people such as Ed Ruscha, Robert Heinecken, William Wegman and, in other media, Marina Abramović and Chris Burden. “It was a world away from the sensibility of the valley,” Mandel says. “There was a pretentiousness from the history of the beat generation that congregated around North Beach where the school was. That was not our thing.” Their thing was billboards. Included in the show is a piece entitled Oranges on Fire, one of 15 original billboards the pair created and installed in over 90 locations throughout the state. It depicted two bare arms against a navy blue background holding a handful of oranges with flames and the title printed above. “It signified the idea that California had transformed from an agricultural world to an entertainment world, that was the message of the billboard,” Mandel explains. “It was a quickly processed image. You’d see it, you’d read the word and then you’re on your way. You’re driving and you didn’t have time to take in the information. You process it, but you don’t know what that means. That’s what it was about, to remove you from your trance out of ordinary life for a moment.” Like today’s street art, Oranges on Fire bypasses compulsory art world machinery –galleries, museums and auction houses – and places that work in direct interaction with the public. For Sultan and Mandel, it made them wonder who their audience was. “You’re in a precious world, the art world, where you’re communicating ideas that are only part of the academic discourse. And we felt really liberated by the idea of making this work in public.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mike Mandel, Untitled, 1971. Photograph: SFMOMAWhen the two set out to make Evidence, an NEA grant proved valuable as a government seal of approval that opened the doors of research archives at organizations such as the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Bechtel Corporation, Lockheed Aircraft and others. “There’s a lot of fragmentation of peoples’ bodies, clinical measuring of things, landscapes, a lot of strange ways of using the landscape as places of experimentation,” says Mandel of the 1977 collection of photos culled from archives. “The Evidence photographs suggest things they’re not really about. We were able to suggest things cause we put them on facing pages for context, so photos complement or comment on the one before. A lot of our relationships are patterned after Ralph Gibson’s understanding of formal relationships. The real message of evidence is that it’s a poetic recognition of these losses of human sensitivity in service to technological progress.”Having settled in San Francisco, Sultan made sporadic trips home to see his parents, Irving and Jean. They became the subject of 1992’s Pictures from Home, which was an attempt to measure life as it is versus how it was dreamed by juxtaposing their likenesses with stills lifted from home movies. “It has more to do with love than with sociology,” Sultan wrote about the series. “It’s very personal, almost embarrassingly personal,” Phillips says. “He’s extending this with the personal relationships to himself, his relationship to his dad, which was very complicated.”His father, Irving Sultan, represented an emotional quagmire for the artist who recorded the former vice-president of the Schick Safety Razor Company grappling with being forced into early retirement after 20 years with the company. “All I know is that when you photograph me I feel everything leave me,” Irving tells his son in accompanying text. “The blood drains from my face, my eyelids droop, my thoughts disappear.” Sultan’s final, unfinished collection, Homeland, featured immigrant day laborers looking lost on the edges of suburban neighborhoods. Sultan hired the men and directed them in mundane tasks such as stringing lights, carrying food to a potluck, or watching a ballgame through a chain-link fence, “routines and rituals related to place and domesticity, alluding to the poignancy of displacement and the longing for home”, is how he described it.“It’s a question asking: what is homeland? What does that mean? Whose home is it, and what is that?” Phillips says of Sultan’s final series before his death in 2009. “I think he was very satisfied with the pictures. There are more in that group than are in the show.” With its focus on outsiders in peripheral and in-between spaces, Homeland seems metaphorically fitting for an artist approaching the end of his life. Diagnosed with sarcoma in August of that year, he died four months later on 13 December.Beginning in 1989, Sultan taught at California College for the Arts in San Francisco for 20 years. Over 400 people attended his memorial service, many of them students. “How can we, or I, account for his influence?” asked former pupil, Jon Rubin, who read the eulogy. “What a remarkable and fortunate group of people we are.” “I saw Larry when he was dying,” Mandel recalls. “I got to give him one last hug and kind of reprimand him for going too early. It was so great to be able to work with somebody who you trust so implicitly. He was definitely one of a kind.”