I should have picked Batman. Or Superman. Or the X-Men.Pretty much any other superhero would have been cooler than the Phantom. In fact, I’m not even sure that “superhero” is the correct label, given his lack of super powers. All he had was a wolf, a horse and a skull ring which he punched his enemies with.Still, that was enough for me. Like so many Australians, I was introduced to the Phantom by accident, when one of the comics was stuffed into a Royal Melbourne showbag as part of a shady backroom deal with Wizz Fizz and Bertie Beetle. But unlike so many Australians, I actually read the comic and became hooked. I joined the Official Phantom Fan Club, I purchased my metal Phantom rings and spent every weekend scouring comic shops from Frankston to Fitzroy looking for my next hit of purple. If you think dating is hard, try doing it as a female comedian | Nikki Britton Because, as I swiftly learned, the Phantom was as elusive in the real world as he was in the comics. He lived in the darkest corners of pop culture; shops only stocked Phantom comics to avoid complaints from the old men who almost exclusively purchased them. Yet here I was, 12 years old, voraciously hunting down obscure back issues and securing any bit of merchandise I could get my hands on. (One of my prized possessions is an empty trading card box from Mornington Newsagency, with a handwritten note on the back – “To be saved for Sam McMillan.”) To be a Phantom fan was to be a scavenger and the thrill of the chase was all part of the fun.In some ways, the Phantom was born an underdog. First published in 1936, he was the world’s first costumed comic hero – then Batman came along three years later, stole a lot of the themes (secret cave, daytime identity), and the rest is comic-book history.Looking back, I wonder if this is in fact what drew me to him. After all, as the weird, skinny nerd, I knew what it was to be an outsider. Perhaps having my very own hero, ignored as he was by the rest of my peers, gave me my own power of sorts. I didn’t have to share the Phantom with anyone; he was mine and mine alone. Well, I can tell myself that. But in truth I was desperate for validation – for me, and for the Phantom. So when I saw my school gardener wearing a Phantom T-shirt one sunny afternoon I practically broke down in tears of joy.This chance encounter set off a chain of events that led to me meeting my wife and ended with a federal police officer searching my attic – a story I’m telling on stage every night as part of my new comedy show.As I expected, it was both fun and confronting revisiting my old school diaries in preparation for it. But it also led to a completely unexpected development. Melbourne comedy festival: top picks from Arj Barker, Hannah Gadsby and Zoë Coombs Marr Seventeen years since I last opened a Phantom comic, I’ve found myself dipping back into them. Well, actually diving head first. I’ve subscribed to the comic again. I’m doing Phantom jigsaw puzzles with my daughter. I’m dropping into comic shops and heading straight for the darkest corner. Yes, I know he’s not the best drawn, best written or most profitable comic-book character. And yes, I have legitimate concerns about the whole white-man-living-in-a-jungle-overseeing-native-pygmies premise. But I didn’t care about that when I was 12; I was too busy hanging out in the jungle, fighting injustice wherever it was found. Sure, it’d probably be more thrilling hanging out in Gotham City, but that wasn’t the path for me. As the Old Jungle Saying goes: “You don’t find the Phantom; he finds you.”• Sammy J: Hero Complex is at Brisbane comedy festival 23-26 March; Melbourne comedy festival 30 March-23 April; Sydney comedy festival on 12-13 May; and Perth comedy festival 18-21 May