 Dinner parties have always been an integral part of my life. My parents, Bangkok-based expats, had them every week. In those days companies gave you huge entertaining budgets, so the sky was the limit. Their parties fascinated me. And, in an effort to uncover their allure, I’d sit on the stairs peeking through the slats in the teak partition and listen to the laughter and the stories. I’d watch the ladies in their finery and smell the smoke from their Sobranie Cocktails. Oh, the glamour! I’d watch the ladies in their finery and smell the smoke from their Sobranie Cocktails. Oh, the glamour! Alas, my attempted research into the Secret Life of Grown-Ups came to a disastrous end when, wet and warm from the bath, I slipped and tumbled down the stairs, my towel abandoned behind me, and ended up a hot, pink, embarrassed naked bundle at the revellers’ feet. It’s an act I’ve endeavoured never to repeat.But then again, I guess it depends on the dinner party…I never set out to work in food. Rather, it happened by accident, and I blame it almost entirely on dinner. In fact, when I think about it, I blame almost every job I ever had on dinner, which is probably why my résumé, such as it is, is one of meandering disconnects instead of something conceived with a plan. The only job I ever had that was not somehow instigated at the dinner table was singing at a Chelsea bar for tips.But, while stage fright meant that I felt like Daffy Duck realising the microphone was, in fact, lit dynamite, it did lead to my meeting models who convinced me (over dinner) that I’d make a good agent and set about making the introductions. (In other career swerves, a dinner in Los Angeles, hosted by a new pal, led to my first proper job in the movies; and a dinner I cooked prompted a photographer friend to ask me to cater a fashion shoot and thus to food writing.)Despite my naked tumble, the idea remained lodged in my psyche: grown-ups had dinners. So it stood to reason that, in my attempts to pretend to be a grown-up, I would go on to host dinner parties at any opportunity. Any excuse to gather people round my table or, in the case of my first studio flat, around trays on the floor. Or, actually, just the floor.For what does furniture matter? It’s not the most important thing at a dinner party. And neither, in fact, is the food. Having people to dinner shouldn’t be about slaving away for the better part of a day – in the right company, cold pizza out of a box will suffice, washed down with Big Bertha bottles of cheap wine. Because a good dinner is not about the food, it’s about the people. It’s about the laughs had, the stories told, the secrets spilled like red wine on the carpet.Of course, you have to cast it right. My worst evening ever involved my inviting two friends who I had forgotten were not just ex-lovers, but ones who had each accused the other of giving them chlamydia. People say sharing food is an act of love. I think it is the basic unit of hospitality People say that the sharing of food is an act of love. I think of it more as the basic unit of hospitality, akin to giving water to a stranger who has just stumbled out of the desert. It creates a space in which love may grow. It promotes conversations in a space that requires one to listen and to be listened to, and that in turn leads to intimacies and reciprocities. By dining together, we invite each other to tell our stories and our truths, and we realise that the dinner party isn’t about being a grown-up at all. It’s actually just about being human.Here is my recipe for a failsafe starter that is guaranteed to get your dinner party off on the right foot…Salmon sashimi with Thai salsa verde and dill      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Japanese-Thai melding: sashimi with Thai salsa verde and dill. Photograph: Julia Platt LeonardI could have gone for something Thai-Talian, a mash-up that’s hugely popular these days. But this Japanese-Thai melding is so zingy and exciting I can’t resist it. When you make this, make sure your salmon is spankingly fresh, sushi-grade fish. And don’t make the sauce too far ahead – this whole dish relies on being made as close to eating as possible.Serves 4 as a starterFor the sauce:coriander a large bunch, leaves only, finely choppedgarlic 3 cloves, peeled and finely choppednam pla (fish sauce) 2 tbsp lime juice 4 tbsp sugar 1 tsp green bird’s eye chillies 4, choppedcoriander roots 2 For the fish:raw salmon 250g , sliced thinly garlic 3-4 cloves , peeled and sliced paper-thin (a slice per slice of salmon)dill fresh, enough to put a sprig on each slice of salmonFirst make the dipping sauce. Begin by placing all the ingredients in a blender (I use a small herb chopper – the blades are just the right size) and whizz until you have a fairly smooth paste. Put this into a dish and set aside covered with clingfilm.Place the salmon slices on a platter and top each slice with a thin sliver of garlic and a small sprig of the fresh dill.Serve immediately with the sauce on the side. You should eat the salmon with a jot of sauce on top of it.Kay Plunkett-Hogge’s Adventures of a Terribly Greedy Girl is published by Mitchell Beazley at £12.99 on 9 February. To order a copy for £11.04, go to bookshop.theguardian.comThis article was amended on 1 February 2017 to correct the photographer credit for the salmon sashimi recipe