Apple’s iOS 10 will begin hitting iPhones, iPads and iPod touches on Tuesday, and it’s the biggest overhaul it has had in years. Here are 10 things that have changed.1. Messages      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   iOS 10 Messages pushes iMessages in the direction of Facebook Messenger. Photograph: AppleMove over Snapchat and Facebook Messenger, Apple’s built-in Messages are now fun. You can send stickers, “Tapback” reactions, transitions (think along the the lines of magic ink) - animations, rich links, larger emojis and best of all, “emojification” which looks at what you’ve written and allows you to tap on words to substitute for emojis.You can also draw or write on the screen and use third-party apps directly within Messages. It’s like Facebook Messenger but with end-to-end encryption.2. Notifications      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   iOS 10 gives notifications a much-needed overhaul. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe biggest visual change to iOS 10 is the new rich notifications and quick reply features that have made them much more useful. You no longer have to open the app to view videos, photos and reply. All you have to do is tap on the notification to launch the app or force press to popup a preview.You can also force press on the clear button in the notification shade to clear all notifications, which, frankly, should have been there from the beginning. Clearing them individually still requires a swipe and a tap on the clear button, but you can delete emails straight from the expanded notification, so that’s progress. 3. LockscreenAlong with notifications, the lockscreen has been made more useful. The widgets from the “today” pull-down can now be viewed with a swipe right on the lockscreen. The same bunch of widgets is available on a swipe right on the home screen, where Siri’s app suggestions used to be, with Siri’s suggestions moving to a pull down on the home screen.You can also now set your phone to light up when you lift it. The raise to wake makes accessing the widgets and notifications easier without accidentally unlocking your phone with a home button press.4. Delete stocks (and other Apple apps)You can now “delete” Stocks and most other Apple apps. It’s not truly gone, but it is hidden and won’t appear on your home screen or launch when something tries to activate it.Stocks: your days are numbered.5. Control Centre      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Control Centre is now spread over two panes. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianNow there are two panes to the Control Centre. The first shows the same quick controls as before, apart from music, which has been moved to a second pane you have to swipe over to. The music pane shows the app that’s playing something, playback controls, volume and a drop-down to select the output device, say, if you have a new set of Bluetooth headphones connected.Whichever pane you used last reappears the next time you swipe up to activate Control Centre.6. More 3D Touch      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Force pressing on folders now pops up the app that’s currently demanding your attention. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianMore of Apple’s apps have become 3D-touch enabled, while the whole system has more gestures for the pressure-sensitive screens introduced with the iPhone 6S. Force pressing on the Calendar app icon, for instance, pops up the calendar widget.Force pressing on a folder with apps with notifications in them now pops up a list of the apps for quick access to the one that’s demanding your attention. Force pressing the bottom row of Control Centre icons also pops up some quick settings such as the intensity of the flash light, but not for the top row for things like available Wi-Fi networks or Bluetooth devices.7. Apple Photos      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   iOS 10 Photos adds a bit of automated smarts into the mix, with face recognition and similar common features. Photograph: AppleApple’s Photos now has many of the same features of rivals such as Google Photos. Face, scene and object recognition is built in, as well as automatic smart grouping for location, topics, trips, people and other activities. All together its called Memories, but while Google Photos and others require photos to be sent off for analysis, Apple has managed it on the device. The success of such intelligent photo analysis remains to be seen.8. Apple Maps      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Apple Maps is steadily improving with useful public transport and search functions, but is still some way behind fan-favourites Citymapper and Google Maps. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianApple Maps continues the long, hard slog to catch up to Google Maps. Now it notifies of traffic and offers faster routes, pops up suggestions for nearby places.It also looks cleaner and puts search front-and-centre, with quick route selection, which is easy to use, particularly for places with public transport. It may not be enough to attract die-hard Google Maps or Citymapper users, but it’s certainly improving.9. Apple Music      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Apple Music is now more usable and easy to navigate. Photograph: AppleApple Music has been described as difficult to use and unintuitive. For iOS 10, Apple has taken a step in the right direction.The music stored in the library is now a lot easier to get to, editing it is simple and viewing downloaded-only music is now just a single tap on Downloaded Music, not buried in a menu.Users have more control over what does and doesn’t get added to their music library when adding playlists and what gets synced and downloaded between devices. There’s also lyrics now for a bit of impromptu karaoke.10. Siri      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Get me the hell out of here, Siri. Photograph: AppleSiri can now be plugged into almost any app. It’s open for developers to build in not only the talking aspects of Siri, but the machine intelligence behind it. Siri will be able to handle more and more tasks from different apps and services, which will be particularly useful for voice control of appliances under HomeKit – there’s a whole new Home app – or sending messages from third-party apps.Siri is also now baked into the QuickType keyboard for more intelligent suggestions and contextual input, such as mentioning meetings in chat linked to the Calendar app.iOS 10 will be available on 13 September for the iPhone 5 and newer, iPad 4 or iPad mini 2 and newer and the sixth generation iPod touch.Apple reveals waterproof iPhone 7 with new camera ... and no headphone jackHow waterproof are the iPhone 7, Samsung Galaxy S7 and smartwatches?Want to listen to an iPhone 7 and charge it simultaneously? That’ll be £35