Mystery of the Man on the Moor 10pm, Channel 4On 11 December 2015, the body of a tall, grey-haired man was discovered on Saddleworth Moor, Greater Manchester. He carried neither phone nor wallet, passport nor driving licence. He had strychnine, “the Agatha Christie drug”, in his system. So who was the man the police dubbed “Neil Dovestone”? It took a year for the police to identify him. This moving documentary follows the painstaking investigation. Jonathan Wright The Real Marigold Hotel 9pm, BBC1It’s the last week for our elderly celebs in India, and some of them are heading north from Kerala to the former hill stations of Ooty and Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. Dennis Taylor visits the colonial Ooty Club, where the game of snooker was invented, while Sheila Ferguson views a £1m penthouse and even snags herself a date with a local businessman. “Every day, I see something new and miraculous in India,” says Lionel Blair. Ben ArnoldIncredible Medicine: Dr Weston’s Casebook 9pm, BBC2This programme sets itself a tricky balancing act: a serious study of the body – fronted by a surgeon, no less – focusing on people with unusual abilities or disabilities. The challenge is ably met, however, properly respecting its subjects while exploring what their various curses and blessings can teach us. Among those featured: a runner with near limitless endurance and a man who can sing two notes at once. Andrew Mueller The Royal House of Windsor 9pm, Channel 4The ogling fixation on our royal family is particularly intense currently, indulged further by this series, which this week examines Prince Charles’s fraught love life. Charles was taken under the wing of Lord Mountbatten, who arranged for him to meet the exiled Edward VIII to learn of the folly of an unsuitable marriage. However, this did not stop his eye from roving wistfully, until his attention was forcibly turned towards Lady Diana Spencer. David Stubbs Pedalling Dreams: The Raleigh Story 9pm, BBC4Many Britons can date their childhood by the suffix their subconscious applies to the word “Raleigh”, be it Roadster, Chopper or Burner. The fortunes of the Nottingham-based company intersect the spokes of British society like playing cards, the brand considered a Kitemark of quality. But following the rise of the affordable motor car, it took the Chopper to put the brakes on a downward sales curve. Mark Gibbings-JonesUsed Car Wars 8pm, DaveRather than attempt to pull the wool over your eyes like many a reality series, Used Car Wars is not so much observed as performed. New to the forecourt? In Derby, two shrewdly self-publicising rival dealerships prone to pranks attempt to sell two nominated cars in a week – and the biggest profit wins. Most interesting offer tonight is a low-mileage 2001 Renault Clio. It’s bought by a collector (“Only 468 in this colour”). He tows it away to “put in the unit”. John Robinson Midnight Sun 10pm, Sky AtlanticA Franco-Swedish drama with black wit and lugubrious lyricism offsetting the tropes of the whodunnit. An imaginative killer is, as the fantastic opening shot announces, at large near a mining town in Arctic northern Sweden. The victim is French, so an angsty Parisian cop arrives to partner the local detectives. They’ll uncover something awful but the drama’s in no rush, sketching sun-scorched landscapes and quirky jokes on its way to the next surprise. Jack Seale Film choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A beautiful, bitter journey … Ida.Ida (Pawel Pawlikowski, 2013) 11.15pm, Film4In early 1960s Poland, novice nun Anna (the suitably beatific Agata Trzebuchowska) is sent to contact her only known relative before taking her final vows. Her Aunt Wanda (Agata Kulesza), a boozy magistrate, reveals that Anna is Jewish and her real name is Ida; together the pair set off to find out what became of her parents after the war. Shot in what feels like 60s monochrome, this is a beautiful, bitter journey into a family’s hidden past and a nation’s dark history, antisemitism and all.Cruel Intentions (Roger Kumble, 1999) 12.50am, Sony Movie ChannelSarah Michelle Gellar, AKA Buffy the Vampire Slayer, turns virginity slayer in this snappy teeny updating of Les Liaisons Dangereuses. Her evil queen of the Manhattan preppies, Kathryn Merteuil, plots with Sebastian Valmont (Ryan Phillippe, whose pouting impersonation of John Malkovich is a hoot) the seduction of untouched Miss Peaches-and-Double-Cream Reese Witherspoon, the motive being pure mischief.Live sportHorse Racing: Cheltenham festival 1pm, ITV. Coverage of the second day of the event featuring the Queen Mother Champion Chase.Champions League Football: Monaco v Manchester City 7pm, BT Sport 2. A remarkable first leg leaves City defending a 5-3 lead.Test Cricket: India v Australia 3.50am, Sky Sports 2. The opening day of the third Test in Ranchi.