Dear ReaderYou are wanted. You are necessary. You are loved.This is the message I have been writing to readers of All The Bright Places since the book’s release in January of 2015. Since then, I’ve been contacted by thousands of teens who feel misunderstood or alone. During one particular day in the fall of last year, I wrote that message 141 times.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Here’s the beautiful cover of my new book Holding Up The Universe, which comes out this October.Holding Up the Universe is about seeing and being seen. Like All The Bright Places, this new novel is a personal story. It comes from my own loss and fear and pain, and it comes from real people who are dear to me. It comes from my 12 and 13-year-old self, who struggled with her weight and the bullying that came with it. From the loss of my dad, which happened only months after the loss of my boyfriend, when I shut down completely and couldn’t leave the house because the world was too scary. From having to go back out into that world again and figure out my place in it. And most recently, it comes from the loss of my mom, who was my sun, and from trying not to worry — every day — that I will die unexpectedly, without warning, the way she did.Jennifer Niven's top 10 teen books to save your life Additionally, the book comes from my 16-year-old cousin, who has had to learn to recognize the people in his life, not by faces, but by the important things like “how nice they are and how many freckles they have.” But the story really began with that reader interaction. I wrote this book for Christine in the United States, for Jayvee in the Philippines, for Steysha in Ukraine, for Paolo in Brazil, for Steph in the UK, for Shubham in India, and for all the others like them. These vibrant, smart, giant-hearted teens who need and deserve to be seen, and who need to know they are wanted. They are necessary. They are loved. Jennifer Niven: Life is too short to be closed off to possibility LoveJennifer xxAnd here… mega drum roll… for your eyes only… is an extract of the first two chapters of Jennifer Niven’s new book Holding Up The Universe. The book isn’t out until October 2016 so we are really privileged to have this extract. Readers, we think you’re going to like it: You can pre-order Jennifer Niven’s Holding Up The Universe here. 