Root vegetables are cheap and abundant in winter, but they’re often underrated and, as a result, underused. They are the less showy cousins of our summery veg stars, full of fibre and very versatile. This week, I’ve been cooking with parsnips, which are one of my favourite parts of Christmas lunch: caramelised, chewy, soft and sweet after a good roasting nestled in among the potatoes. But they’re good for everyday cooking, too: bake them in cream for a gratin, and serve them with something appley – their perfect match. Or grate them raw and use in a salad or in a gloriously moist sponge cake with an indecently good burnt butter icing.Parsnip gratin with apple allioliThe apple brings a hint of sweetness to this rich and velvety allioli, which melts all over the piping-hot, creamy gratin. Serves six.750g parsnips, peeled1 garlic clove, peeled and halved15g butter125ml double cream125ml creme fraiche200ml whole milk6 sprigs thyme, leaves pickedSalt and freshly ground black pepper75g ground almonds1-2 tbsp extra-virgin olive (or rapeseed) oil, to drizzleFor the apple allioli2 apples, peeled, cored and cut into chunks2 garlic cloves, peeled and roughly chopped3 tbsp cider vinegar200ml mild olive oilHeat the oven to 200C/390F/gas mark 6. Thinly slice two-thirds of the peeled parsnip (use a mandoline, if you have one) and coarsely grate the rest. Rub both cut sides of the garlic around a medium-sized baking dish, then smear it all over with the butter. Arrange the parsnip slices in rows over the base of the dish, overlapping slightly. Once you’ve used up all the slices, scatter the grated parsnip on top.In a bowl, whisk the cream, creme fraiche, milk and thyme leaves, then season with a teaspoon of salt and plenty of freshly ground black pepper. Pour this over the parsnips, making sure they’re just submerged, then sprinkle the ground almonds all over the top. Drizzle with oil, cover the dish with foil and roast for 15 minutes. Remove the foil, lower the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4 and cook another half-hour, until the cream has been absorbed, the top is golden and the parsnips are tender.While the parsnips are roasting, make the allioli. Put the apple chunks in a small pan, cover with water and cook on a medium heat for about eight minutes, until the fruit is soft. Drain, then transfer to a food processor with the garlic and vinegar, and whizz to a puree. With the motor running, start adding the oil a drop at a time, until you’ve added about a third, then increase your speed of pouring, first to a trickle and then to a slow, steady stream, until you have used up all the oil. Season generously to taste and serve in a bowl alongside the gratin.Parsnip cake with brown butter icing      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Thomasina Miers’ parsnip cake with brown butter icing. Photograph: Louise Hagger for the Guardian. Food styling: Emily Kydd. Prop styling: Jennifer KayThe burnt butter in the icing gives it a salty, nutty richness that is a lovely counterbalance to the sweet sponge. Serves 10.250g unsalted butter, softened250g caster sugar4 eggs275g parsnips, peeled and finely grated 1 apple, peeled and finely grated250g white spelt flour, sifted2 heaped tsp baking powder1 tsp ground mixed spice1 tsp saltFor the icing250g unsalted butterJuice of ½ lemon250g icing sugar50ml milk6 tbsp maple syrup50g roast hazelnuts, roughly choppedHeat the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4, and butter and line a 23cm cake tin.In a food processor or mixer, beat the butter and sugar until pale and light. Beat in the eggs one at a time, then fold in the parsnips and apple, followed by the flour, baking powder, mixed spice and salt. Pour into the tin and bake in the middle of the oven for 40-45 minutes, until golden and a skewer comes out clean.Meanwhile, make the icing. Melt the butter in a light-coloured saucepan (so you can see the base and keep track of it changing colour) on a medium heat. Cook, swirling the pan now and then, for eight to 14 minutes (the timing will depend on the size of the pan) and watching it like a hawk after about five minutes. When the butter begins to foam up, turn from golden to toast-brown and smell a bit nutty, take the pan off the heat and squeeze in the lemon to stop it cooking further (it’ll bubble up a little, so take care). Pour into a bowl to cool, then chill until solid.The weekend cook: Thomasina Miers’ recipes for warming winter vegetable soups With an electric whisk, beat the solid butter until fluffy and pale, then incorporate the icing sugar and milk bit by bit, alternating the two.When the cake is completely cool, cut it in half through the middle and drizzle the cut sides with two tablespoons each of maple syrup. Spread half the icing over the bottom half of the cake and top with the other half of cake. Spread the remaining the icing on top, then drizzle with the remaining two tablespoons of syrup. Before serving, scatter over the hazelnuts. This cake stays moist for longer than the average sponge, but it’s still best eaten within a few days.And for the rest of the week…Leftover gratin is easily reheated, but it’s also good cold from the fridge. The allioli is delicious with crisp chicken bits, and also adds a lovely, garlicky sweetness to a dressing for a bitter chicory salad (thin it with vinegar and olive oil). If you have excess parsnips, cut them into paper-thin slices and toss them into a winter salad – with watercress, shallots and wafer-thin slices of apple, for example. And leftover burnt butter is delicious tossed through steamed spinach.