In an isolationist United States, panic stricken by the onset of the second world war, the aviator Charles Lindbergh defeats the incumbent Franklin D Roosevelt by a landslide in the presidential election of 1940 and forges a pact with Hitler. An intrepid bystander forestalls the John F Kennedy assassination and, on returning to the US in 2011, discovers that his hero not only won a second term but nuked Hanoi and presided over Maine’s secession to Canada. Meanwhile, four centuries earlier, Mary Queen of Scots, having executed her queenly cousin Elizabeth I, finds herself at the head of a Catholic England …And so, non- or ahistorically on. The counter-factual or “alternative history” novel is as old as Louis Geoffroy’s Histoire de la Monarchie Universelle (1836) – this celebrates Napoleon’s little-known 1811 triumph over the Russian hordes and his 1814 invasion of England – or possibly even older. The examples quoted above (respectively, Philip Roth’s The Plot Against America, Stephen King’s 11/22/63 and John Banville’s The Infinities) are sufficient to distinguish it from its distant cousin, the dystopia. In dystopias, it can be argued, the future goes wrong. In counter-factuals, time does something even more alluring: it slips, to run subjunctively and enticingly out of kilter.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Intrepid bystander … James Franco in 11/22/63 Photograph: PR Company HandoutCritics sometimes have their doubts about counter-factuals, deploring the (allegedly) profitless speculation while noting that the detail and nuance thrown up by a novel like Kingsley Amis’s The Alteration, in which the Reformation never happens, are a useful reminder that history nearly always tends to be examined from the angle of the victor. They are also keen on complaining that alternative history’s sinewy trails have a habit of returning to a single source. Certainly, Len Deighton’s SS-GB (1978), whose TV serialisation begins on 19 February, was the outlier for myriad reimaginings of the second world war in which Britain sues for peace, Nazi jackboots tramp down Whitehall and – a chilling little flourish from Kingsley Amis’s story “1941/A” – Goebbels gives his name to an Oxford history chair.Second world war counter-factuals tend to fall into two categories: novels that speculate on what might have happened had the US not come into the war or been neutralised early on, and those focusing on the aftermath of a Nazi Anschluss. The second group includes Robert Harris’s Fatherland (1992) – which my RAF-veteran father reckoned the most plausible what-if he had ever read – and CJ Sansom’s Dominion (2012; Britain sues for peace after Dunkirk and Churchill goes on to lead a resistance movement from the hills). Hitler has a subgenre to himself, including Beryl Bainbridge’s Young Adolf (1978), in which the Führer’s avatar wanders around Liverpool, and George Steiner’s The Portage to San Cristobal of AH (1981), where the 92-year-old survivor of the Berlin bunker is still going strong in South America.Arresting as all these alternative worlds are, there is a suspicion that the counter-factual sometimes works better in humbler, less grandiose or at any rate slightly quirkier settings. Melvyn Bragg’s Autumn Manoeuvres (1978) is a fascinating what-if from the 1978 general election that Labour prime minister James Callaghan decided not to call, which ends with both Callaghan and Bragg’s Cumbrian Labour MP winning a small majority. Brian Aldiss’s Brothers of the Head (1977) refashions the music business of the early 1970s courtesy of conjoined twins with a third dormant head whom the pop svengalis transform into a band called the Bang Bangs. In The Wolves of Willoughby Chase a channel tunnel has allowed packs of wolves from Europe to prowl the Yorkshire moors In children’s literature, there is Joan Aiken’s wonderful The Wolves of Willoughby Chase (1962), set in a 19th-century England where the Stuarts are still on the throne and a channel tunnel linking Dover and Calais has allowed packs of wolves from continental Europe to prowl the Yorkshire moors and menace the passing trains. And here, in a well-nigh Dickensian tale of lost children and evil governesses, lies another difference between the counter-factual and the dystopian. In the latter anything can happen; in the former what ensues is all the more disturbing for the outward familiarity of the landscape in which it takes place.Where does the genre go from here? Hardcore fans sometimes suggest there ought to be a moratorium on Nazi flags hanging over Buckingham Palace or Hitler peering out of the Downing Street window. One fruitful line of inquiry might be the international figure denied their place in world history by some grotesque stroke of fate and being compelled to shift their talents and personalities to a smaller stage. There is, for example, an excellent novel to be written about a Mrs Thatcher forced to take over the running of her father’s grocery shop, or a Napoleon working as a civil servant in the Lot.• SS-GB starts on BBC1 on 19 February at 9pm. To order a copy of SS-GB for £7.64 (RRP £8.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.