Televison in 2016 witnessed a full-scale rise of the machines. From sitcoms to serious drama, technology colonised our screens, reflecting everything from our unease with automation to our poisonous relationship with social media. Not even children’s telly was exempt: a cheerful game show called Airmaggedon tasked kids with steering unmanned drones around an obstacle course – perfect preparation for a future career spent remotely bombing some distant Middle Eastern country.Airmageddon aside, no show better illustrated tech’s troubling potential than Westworld. A remake of a 1973 movie in which where robot cowboys cause havoc in a theme park sounds like something that shouldn’t get past the commissioning stage, but creators Jonathan Nolan and Lisa Joy retrofitted that pulpy premise to create a thoughtful, moving and chilling drama. In this Westworld, the robots – known as hosts – are artificially intelligent recreations of mankind, designed to be seduced or shot at by the park’s human guests. More problematically, these bots are fitted with “reveries”, tiny flickers of memory from their past lives, which, as the series progresses, cause them to attain a dangerous level of consciousness.As Westworld’s hosts wrestled both with their own sentience and the rampant cruelty of their anthropoid overlords, the viewer slowly realised that they were siding not with man but with machine. We ached when Evan Rachel Wood’s kindly cowgirl-bot Dolores suffered from flashes of past trauma at the hands of the loathesome park guest the Man in Black, and whooped when Thandie Newton’s brothel madam Maeve led a full-scale robot rebellion that left piles of bloodied humans in its wake.The temptation with this sort of forward-looking sci-fi is to reach for a weighty allegory. Were the synths-in-servitude of Channel 4’s sci-fi soap Humans a reflection of our attitudes to migrant workers? Perhaps, but the stories in Humans and Westworld could also be taken literally. In October, the New Yorker’s Nathan Heller wrote a much-discussed piece wondering whether machines should be afforded the same intrinsic rights as animals, due to their growing self-awareness. It might not seem it when you’re shouting at Amazon’s automated voice service Alexa for ordering underpants instead of milk, but as artificial intelligence improves, our relationships with robots become ever more complex. The dilemmas faced in Westworld and Humans are beginning to feel less and less fanciful.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Silicon Valley proved impressively and uncomfortably prescientTech moves at a rapid clip these days, and for shows that keep pace with it, the storytelling potential is enormous. The HBO comedy Silicon Valley seemed unerringly prophetic this year, as its real-life namesake contended with complaints over Facebook and Twitter and the moral dubiousness of tech-industry “thought leaders” such as the Trump-supporting, Gawker-suing Peter Thiel. Even more impressively prescient was a marketing campaign for the show which, months before most of us had heard of “fake news”, was seeding false stories about goings on in its fictional world in Google’s search results.The trippy hacker thriller Mr Robot also mirrored real-life happenings. Just as the Dark Army, a group of hackers-for-hire aligned with the Chinese government, were sowing discord in the show’s universe, news was breaking that Russia-enabled hackers were leaking the private emails of high-ranking officials in the US Democratic party.In its depictions of paranoiac coders trying to bring down capitalism from their bedrooms, Mr Robot was the TV show that best summed up the feverish nature of the present day. It also offered up the year’s single most chilling depiction of technology run amok, in a scene where one character’s “smart home” was turned against them by hackers: lights flicked on and off at random, booming classical music blared periodically from the stereo system, and the remote-controlled central heating blew hot and cold. It felt like something out of Black Mirror – surely the highest praise you can offer a piece of dystopian sci-fi these days.Of course, we were treated to some actual Black Mirror this year, as Charlie Brooker’s dark anthology series moved to the suitably forward-facing setting of Netflix. Yet while there was much to admire about this season’s six new stories, there was also a sense that the real world had managed to outpace the show’s twisted tech fantasies. The imagined realm of the opening episode, Nosedive, where people’s social status is determined by star ratings, forcing everyone to exist in a bubble of forced pleasantness, looks positively utopian when compared to the antisemitism-spewing frog avatars of real social media.Instead, Black Mirror’s best episode was one that skipped the doom-laden vision of the future, and instead offered up some optimism. San Junipero tells the bittersweet story of two young women who fall for each other in a neon-flecked California party town in 1987. Of course, there’s more than meets the eye: this sepia-tinged world is actually a virtual reality version of the afterlife, a heaven for people to be uploaded to when they die. At a time when technology seemed to be bringing out the worst in us and reality was looking less and less appealing, here was a welcome dose of escapism, a place where we could don our aviator shades and dance the night away.