A couple of experiences with BBC radio last week gave me a bleak impression of the current state of UK politics around research and technology. On Wednesday, I was invited to appear on Radio 4’s Moral Maze. Recent calls by the Science Council for greater responsibility by scientists were framed as some kind of extremist effort to “choke off” science. The focus for the debate was that science is inherently morally and politically neutral – and so, effectively separate from democracy.I pointed out it is simply a reality that science is steered by social and political forces. I mentioned the military, as the largest single area for public investment in research. I referred to the general bias towards reductionist kinds of science yielding intellectual property. This profoundly shapes research in health and agriculture. These are moral and social issues deep inside science. I argued that denial of these ethical and political dimensions, leaves science vulnerable to whatever happen to be the strongest interests in any given field. Surely science is better steered in open and democratic ways, rather than covertly or unaccountably? Yet the reaction to this reasoned defence of pluralism, was that “people like you” are simply out to “choke off” “whatever you don’t approve of”. It seems that democracy itself is seen as the threat.This sinister implication chimed curiously with the second episode. This time, I was a listener to Radio 4’s Desert Island Discs – featuring the distinguished nuclear engineer and successful high-level lobbyist: Dame Sue Ion.Dame Sue is a great choice. The BBC should do all it can to remedy the marginal profile and abysmally poor gender balance within UK engineering. Nor is there any problem or surprise in engineers being strongly partisan about their favoured technologies. Passionate and pugnacious, Dame Sue was rightly introduced as an “evangelist” for nuclear power. Good luck to her! But what is going on when someone is introduced as an “evangelist” for their own technology, but then turned to as an arbiter of what the interviewer calls “stark scientific facts” about this same technology, in order to correct criticisms that are dismissed merely as “peoples’ prejudices”? This contradictory conjunction of professed evangelism and attributed disinterestedness is odd indeed. Would the BBC so easily grant this double accolade to an advocate of renewable energy…or non-GM farming? It seems only incumbent forms of science are afforded this privilege.The queries here go beyond the BBC. Fair coverage of energy issues can be rebalanced over a range of programmes. But what was the decision process by which a passionate nuclear evangelist was chosen for a flagship biographical programme specifically for the week of the fifth anniversary of Fukushima? The result seemed less a celebration of a personal life, and more a political rebuttal on a sensitive issue. And the manifest bias did not stop there. Dame Sue was asked in this supposedly biographical programme, how to correct mistaken criticisms of her evangelised technology. The cue was met with alacrity: enthusiastically denigrating alternatives. Questioning whether wind would be viable on her desert island, Dame Sue asserted emphatically “the facts” that “you can’t have all the electricity you need in the UK, by only having renewables.”Here, partisanship crosses a line – especially when presented as so authoritative. Pros and cons of nuclear and renewables can be viewed in various ways. But decades of academic, industry and government analysis are very clear. It is plain wrong to assert that UK renewable energy does not even offer a possible alternative. If so wished, a fully renewable UK energy future is entirely viable.Of course, such a transition would not be easy. There’s plenty of scope for legitimate debate over what is desirable, let alone best. But what jars is when this kind of airtime is used with such contrived timing, to deny even the possibility of choice. In similar emergent ways, both BBC programmes this week reflected a strongly anti-democratic bias in discussion of science and technology.Similar syndromes are not absent elsewhere. But it does seem the UK is peculiarly susceptible. We need only look to a country as self-confident in science and engineering as Germany, for instance, to see how things could be different. There seems much less of a problem there, in contemplating alternative technological trajectories in areas like GM or nuclear power, without allowing incumbent interests such totalitarian opportunities to deny that science encompasses social choices. It is clear how democracy suffers from this kind of pathology. But it is ironic that science itself is also under threat. And particular national vulnerabilities to entrenchment by obsolete vested interests, may be part of the problem for UK engineering. In the end, authoritarian dragooning of “science as doctrine”, seriously undermines the aspirations of “science as process”. In reality, the robustness equally of research, innovation and democracy rest on similar foundations of openness, scepticism, challenge and egalitarianism. It is the intensity and frequency with which these qualities are compromised in current UK debates on science and technology that deserves to be identified as sinister. 