At my local tech group, where you can usually count the women on one hand, the men are envious. There are tons of meetup groups and free courses for women, but as one guy said to me recently. “Where’s the meetup group for the ‘shy bearded men who code’?”He has a point. As a woman starting a career in tech, I’ve had free conference tickets and scholarships for online training. And once I got started, I discovered that the tech community was not as bad as I had expected. Yes, there is a diversity problem, we do desperately need more women and discrimination does exist. But I have not found it to be the hostile environment I’d imagined from the media coverage. I’ve joined meetup groups formed to inspire women to excel in the tech sector, where I’ve been able to learn new topics in a relaxed and friendly environment. I’ve even benefited from the Google Campus for Mums and Dads’ Startup programme, a series of nine, baby-friendly training sessions designed to help entrepreneurial parents grow their ideas.  The barriers to entry are relatively low. There’s a multitude of online educational resources - many of which are free. Through the programme, I received training and mentoring from field experts covering topics ranging from business planning and UX design to raising startup funding. I constantly hear people saying it’s hard for women to get on in tech, but compared to my previous roles within the design and advertising industry where sexism was rife - and, alarmingly, not just limited to my male bosses - I’ve never had it so good.The barriers to entry are relatively low. There’s a multitude of online educational resources - many of which are free. No previous experience is required and you don’t need a degree in computer science. In fact, you don’t need to have a technical background at all - just a curious mind and a willingness to learn. But if it’s so easy to become a woman in tech, why aren’t there more of us? I believe it’s down to a lack of role models that we can identify with. I’m 47. Can anyone show me any older women in tech just starting out, juggling school runs and clubs, with a mountain of ironing and a hoover screaming to be emptied? I come from a generation of women who didn’t even get to do computing at school. I was denied the chance because I “was already committed to too many other options”. My request to switch computing in place of another subject was refused. I don’t recall any of the boys being told the same. With no computer science degree and no tech industry experience, I doubted myself for a long time. Today, I often feel like a kid in a sweet shop. What do I want to start learning today: HTML, Ruby on Rails or JavaScript? UX Design? Or how about Data Analysis? The best thing is I can do it remotely, I can balance being a mum with my career. It’s also allowed me to combine work with topics I care about. I’m currently working on an app to solve my personal problem of trying to eat out with multiple food intolerances.You can get started in your spare time from home and fit studying around your day job. The best part is that there’s no age restriction; I launched myself in the tech industry in my mid-forties with relative ease. I started building websites for friends and family, and then found new clients by going to local small business networking events. The tech industry thrives on collaboration. I’ve found male colleagues genuinely supportive, encouraging and a pleasure to work with. The tech sector is exciting and fun to be part of. It encourages open sharing and the discussion of ideas for the benefit of everyone. Being a woman in tech has allowed me to carve a second career, work from home and still be a mum to my two teenage boys. I’ve started my own business as a freelance web designer, and ventured into the world of tech startup. I still want to be a mum. Children grow up so quickly and I don’t want to miss those precious moments. But I’m also me, and I don’t want to stop challenging myself either. Becoming a woman in tech means having my cake and eating it.Nathalie is a web designer, founder of SheCodes web design and co-founder of TreatOut.comTalk to us on Twitter via @GdnWomenLeadersand sign up to become a member of the Women in Leadership network and receive our newsletter.