Gary Barlow is set to visit a galaxy far, far away, with the singer announcing that he will appear in forthcoming Star Wars sequel The Last Jedi.In an interview on ITV’s Lorraine, the Take That member confirmed his involvement in the film – also referred to as Episode VIII – but said he would not be playing a stormtrooper, as had previously been suggested.Last year, the Sun reported that Barlow had secretly filmed a cameo at London’s Pinewood Studios, where much of The Last Jedi was filmed. At the time, a spokesman for Barlow refused to comment on the report, but the singer has now confirmed the news. “I’m not a stormtrooper, but I am in it,” he told Lorraine presenter Ross King.“Now I’ve said that, I’ll probably be out,” he added. “I think the Star Wars people are so strict about what information [is divulged]. So me saying that, I’ve probably just done myself out of a role.” Despite Barlow’s fears, Star Wars producer Lucasfilm confirmed his involvement in the film to Lorraine’s showbiz reporter Dan Wootton.Star Wars: The Last Jedi - Luke's first words revealed to Disney shareholders Barlow is not the only unlikely figure set to make an appearance in The Last Jedi. In 2016, it was reported that princes William and Harry had filmed a scene as stormtroopers while visiting Pinewood Studios. “The rebel characters are in a lift with Benicio del Toro’s character when a group of stormtroopers enter – two of whom are William and Harry,” a source told the Mail on Sunday. Taboo actor Tom Hardy will also reportedly appear as a stormtrooper, and Gareth Edwards, who directed recent Star Wars spin-off Rogue One, has been given an unspecified cameo role.The franchise’s previous instalment, The Force Awakens, also featured several famous names making surprise appearances. James Bond actor Daniel Craig is said to have appeared in an uncredited role as a stormtrooper who falls victim to a Jedi mind trick performed by Daisy Ridley’s character Rey, though Craig himself denied the reports. The Force Awakens composer Michael Giacchino and Radiohead producer Nigel Godrich also donned white stormtrooper helmets for brief credited roles in the film, while actor Warwick Davis, whose first film role was as an ewok in Return of the Jedi, made a cameo appearance as another ewok character. Davis has confirmed that he will also appear in the Last Jedi.The second film in the Star Wars sequel trilogy, the Last Jedi will be released on 15 December. It will be followed by an as-yet untitled film in 2019, while a spin-off about the young Han Solo will be released in May 2018.