Fracking will involve a) industrialising the countryside, b) the risk of various forms of pollution to air, water and the natural environment, c) an excuse for a delay in the decarbonisation of electricity. It might, possibly, provide a) a secure source of energy for a generation, b) tax revenues, c) a lower-carbon source of energy than coal to ease the passage to power generated entirely by renewables.Opinion is already hardening around the extremes. In the north-west of England, where Cuadrilla announced two new fracking sites yesterday, test drilling has been going on for years; some actual fracking licences have been granted, and the anti-fracking campaign is now well rooted. In the home counties, where rolling green acres and leafy villages sit on top of thousands of square miles of shale gas, there is a cordial alliance developing between the travelling green campaigners and the settled house-and-garden owners who don't want trucks on their lanes and flares lighting up the night sky.The frackers' friends face Herculean labours. A partnership between the oil companies with their questionable record on environmental protection and a Conservative government that talks dismissively of "green crap" and promises the fracking companies the most generous tax regime ever tends to undermine its own credibility. When baseless claims are made about shale gas delivering the kind of low-cost energy bonus the US is experiencing – it won't because, unlike the US, British gas prices are locked into a Europe-wide system – and communities are offered bribes to let fracking take place, the developers could be forgiven for wishing their cheerleaders would pipe down.If it wants popular buy-in, the government would do better to emphasise the rigour of the regulatory regime rather than holding out the offer of easy terms to the developers and a new play area for the community. For their part, the fracking companies' case would be more persuasive if they meticulously observed the terms of their licences instead of illicitly extending testing and marching on to private property.Reconciling the two extremes in this debate is like the old oil and water thing. They won't mix. But, as all negotiators know, it's always worth seeking out areas where agreement might be possible. Try this: which would cost more: a) achieving effective, if not total, decarbonisation of electricity supply by 2030 as most experts agree is necessary; or b) developing fracking (at the moment a resource whose viability is unconfirmed) and continuing to rely on gas. There isn't a right answer because there are too many variables. Levels of investment in wind and solar power, and falling costs as technology improves have to be set against the rise in the price of gas that the department for energy and climate change anticipates. Last year, an IPPR report tried to do the sums and suggested that there would be only a small extra cost for going green. But some Tories suggest shale gas can be an alternative to decarbonisation. That could dry up investment in renewables and the sums would add up differently.But here's what could be the decider, a move that could overcome the get-rich-quick advocacy of the government and the fear of pillage for private gain of people whose lives will be directly affected. If fracking, in a properly regulated environment, could really offer a reliable and secure lower carbon option then the whole country should share the benefit. And not just for this generation in terms of jobs and security, but for generations to come. We need a sovereign wealth fund that would be built on the revenues from the nation's last great natural resource. Mere hypothecation, scoff politicians, rejecting the idea again in parliament yesterday. But hypothecation with a purpose, looking after the country's long-term interests, building up a reserve that can, in line with strict rules (Norway's cap on annual spending of its vast fund is just 4% a year) provide an insurance for everyone in an uncertain future.• This article was amended on 5 February 2014, clarifying parliament's position. It now says: 'Mere hypothecation, scoff politicians, rejecting the idea again in parliament yesterday.'