I have to be in two places for my last meal, magically transported between them. I’d like to begin it at the Dragon Well Manor restaurant in Hangzhou, in China, at the end of the Longjing tea growing area. It is an oasis of calm, an enchanted garden surrounded by tea hills and greenery. In a traditional Chinese garden, the effect is romantically a bit wild – water lilies on the ponds, osmanthus trees, lush vegetation, the sounds of insects and birds. It’s a place that sums up the beauty of south China and classical Chinese cuisine.Going there feels like a dream. You enter a moon gate and walk along a path through the garden. There are several paved terraces, outside traditional buildings, overlooking the gardens. I’d like to be drinking Dragon Well tea, on a terrace, nibbling fruits and nuts, chatting to my friends.The food is extraordinary there. There’s a profound respect for the seasons, and for the comfort of mind and body. All these values that we think of as quite modern, are actually very old traditional Chinese values.I’ve spent much of my life infatuated with Sichuanese food, which is such a rollercoaster ride, but for my last supper I’d want delicacy and peacefulness and balance.China’s best-kept food secret, revealed by Fuchsia Dunlop We’d start with freshly stone-ground soy milk with savoury seasonings: dried shrimp, pickled vegetables, spring onion and soy sauce. Very refreshing and beautiful. Then, the most incredible duck soup imaginable. Some of the wonderful vegetables that are very particular to China. Fresh bamboo shoots, very fresh little greens, such as pak choi and stem lettuce. A wild mandarin fish, cooked Hangzhou-style in a ginger sweet-and-sour sauce. And then dong po pork, made with old breed, free-range pork, slow-cooked and meltingly soft. That with white rice is just perfect.Then, I’d be miraculously transported to my parents’ garden in Oxford. For family gatherings, we each cook a course. I would ask my mother to make a blood orange tart from the Chez Panisse Desserts cookbook, served with a sweet Hungarian wine. The one thing that westerners beat the Chinese at are puddings – cream, chocolate, milk and butter make for a range of sweet things you don’t get there. That tart is like a classic French dessert tart with an edge of lyrical beauty about it. Pastry with caramel, blood orange segments and a scattering of pistachio on top.My father would have made one of his fantastical architectural cakes. He’s always been into Meccano, and he brings that same sense to his baking. Towers of chocolate cake with pastry architectural details around them. The adventure is more in the form – there’s an abstract, crazy beauty to them, like something from outer space.Fuchsia Dunlop is a food writer. Her new cookbook, Land of Fish and Rice: Recipes from the Culinary Heart of China (Bloomsbury) is out on 28 July