Everything you need to know about tea in 2016 can be summed up by the fact that Tetley now sells something called Super Fruits Boost. The last five years have seen such an explosion in the popularity of green and fruit teas that even a company advertised by a cartoon cast of flat-capped, 1950s northerners is now compelled to flog such exotica. However, despite the fact that sales of ordinary teabags are falling, the vast majority of us still start our day with the invigorating, tannic wake-up call of an English breakfast-style tea. Analyst Mintel reports that 70% of all teabags sold in Britain are black, everyday blends. That is a lot of straight-up, no-nonsense brewing.But do any of the supermarket own-brand teas rival the big names? And not just the relatively meek top-sellers such as PG Tips and Tetley, but heavy-hitters such as Yorkshire Tea or Clipper’s organic bags (80 teabags, £2.60; 9/10)? The latter, in particular, is a rich, bright, unapologetically complex brew. It is a tea whose natural sweetness shines through, but which nonetheless packs a mighty tannic, mineral punch. I put all teas to the test by pouring 280ml boiling water over each bag and steeping for three minutes. I added 20ml of milk. No sugar, thanks.Waitrose, English breakfast, 100 teabags, £2.80      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Waitrose tea, bag just added. Photograph: Jill Mead for the GuardianAs late as the Edwardian era, tea was still sold as a medicinal beverage. For instance, the Co-op’s 99 blend was originally known as Prescription Tea. Is Waitrose’s English breakfast a throwback? It certainly tastes like something you might offer as a gentle restorative to a fragile flower who, having collapsed on a chaise longue, is incapable of stomaching anything stronger. It is warm and wet, sweet and weak-willed. If you concentrate, you can detect a little tannic character in its depths but, essentially, it tastes of very little.3/10Asda, Chosen by You, 80 teabags, £1Picture the scene: you are making a brew. Fishing it out, you accidentally split the teabag. But, sod it, you’re late. It’ll do. You drink it down to the last mouthfuls which, because the dregs are now full of loose tea, have a curiously tart and overtly tannic, inelegantly raw flavour. It is not appalling, but it is certainly a bit rough. You chuck the last of your mug down the sink. Or at Asda, by the taste of it, you use that split-bag scenario as the main flavour inspiration for this curious tea blend.5/10Marks & Spencer, Luxury Gold, 80 teabags, £2.30      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   M&S tea after a short steep. Photograph: Jill Mead for the GuardianThe hype about Luxury Gold’s provenance falls flat at the first Google (Typhoo also harvests only the superior “top two leaves and a bud” for its teas, and they are hardly stunners). Nonetheless, this tea shines in the cup. It is strong, well-rounded and unusually fragrant, too. Without being too OTT for the English breakfast crew, it is heady with perfumed, Earl Grey-ish notes that dovetail neatly with its baseline bitterness. That back-end oomph is less pronounced than in Clipper’s organic tea, but this is an excellent everyday brew.8/10Morrisons, English breakfast, 100 teabags, £2Disappointingly, this is the only tea of the eight that is not Fairtrade or part of a competing ethical trading scheme. Because, in all other respects, it is top-notch char. Upfront, its flavours are notably fresh, juicy and zesty. This is a tea that gets your saliva glands going before bottoming out into an array of interesting, acerbic oxidised compounds. It doesn’t quite have the smooth, muscular power of Clipper’s teabags, but it is a lively blend that delivers a great thwack of bitterness which lingers satisfyingly. A first-rate thirst-quencher.7.5/10Sainsbury’s, Taste the Difference English breakfast, 80 teabags, £1.90      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sainsbury’s tea after one minute. Photograph: Jill Mead for the GuardianLike a promising young boxer, this tea makes all the right moves but ultimately fails to land a killer blow. It bobs and weaves, feints and jabs: lightly perfumed notes; a fresh, vibrant brightness, reminiscent of loose-leaf tea; a certain malty richness – but it lacks that back-end tannic crunch, that knockout follow-through, that would give it an irresistible heft. It is all sweetness and intriguing display, before the flavours slink away like an agile ballet dancer. It lacks that final burst of bruising power.6.5/10Tesco, Finest English breakfast, 100 teabags, £2.39You know that person at work who dutifully fulfils their contractual obligations without offering a scintilla more in terms of effort or inspiration? They would love this similarly box-ticking Tesco tea. There is a certain citrusy brightness to it, a gritty depth, but it takes place in a narrow spectrum of flavour. It is rudimentary. It lacks any real expression or full-bodied richness. Its earthy tannins taste tired and dusty, like the bottom of a loose-leaf caddy. It is, ultimately, insipid. A brew you would tolerate rather than celebrate.4/10Co-op, Loved By Us 99 blend, 80 teabags, £1      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Co-op tea after two minutes. Photograph: Jill Mead for the GuardianThe Co-op makes great play of this historic tea’s (barely discernible) reddish-brown colour. Luckily, its flavour is genuinely distinctive. A Co-op staple since the 1930s, 99 is rich and malty with a residual bone-dry earthiness, around which light, sweet flavours flash vivaciously. Those flavours are not as developed as in the best everyday teas, but this is a solid brew, great value and a tea which goes beyond the basic demands of its Fairtrade certification – for instance, the Co-op helped 15,000 Kenyan farmers organise as a co-operative.7/10Aldi, Diplomat English breakfast, 50 teabags, 99pDiplomat is one of the few teas in this test that has a ready and appealing aroma, but it fails to deliver on that early olfactory promise. Like Asda’s tea, it has a rawness to it, a slightly peculiar, almost metallic sharpness of the kind you get from an accidental mouthful of loose leaves or by leaving the bag in the cup to stew for too long. It is not a terrible flavour, but overall, this English breakfast lacks the smoothly rounded edges, the briskness and the sophistication of the best teas in this sample.5/10