I can’t tell the difference between Amber the bartender and Jami the bartender. They probably don’t look that much alike – maybe not even at all – and except for the common job and the same sort of name, I shouldn’t confuse them. At least not any more than I do the rest of the women of The Bachelor. But yes, it is difficult to keep all of them straight, because they all look like reality TV stars, which is just an update on the Stepford Wife of yore. This season, they all have gone in for ombre hair like it was going out of style, which, of course, it is, soon if not already.And they all say the same things. They say things that they could not possibly mean, but that they think they should say. It is not an effort to be polite. It is actually this weird attempt to sound aware and open together and graceful, which is ridiculous because really? “I’m scared of getting hurt and I tend to protect myself,” announces Lauren B, the stewardess from Marina Del Rey, before departing on a yellow one-prop plane for a date with Ben. For all the money in the world, you will never convince me she is a flight attendant, and that is that.“But I do genuinely trust Ben at this point,” Lauren B adds. “At this point” is after a few brief conversations, during which they have realized they are hot for each other. Perhaps what Lauren B believes is genuine trust is nothing more than infatuation. Funny how that works. So maybe Lauren B is not that scared of getting hurt and doesn’t tend to protect herself at all. That’s what I think. Since we see her five minutes later in a hot tub, making out with Ben, that is the obvious conclusion. Lauren B tells Ben that the reason she has not been snapped up by someone else is that she is soooooo picky. Most of us have heard that one before. But Ben will believe anything. Next thing you know he is on a date with Jubilee, the former soldier, who is nothing like Lauren B, but she too just delivers lines. While Jubilee and Ben are having dinner, she actually tells him that she has “many layers” and that people find her “mysterious”. Except that no one would ever serve up anything so trite to a woman he was meaning to flatter, the stuff Jubilee was saying about herself should of course only ever come from someone else. But we can forgive Jubilee, because they are just words. She is 24 and she thinks this is what sounds good. She goes on to explain her difficult past as an orphan from Haiti, and about how hard it is to be adopted. And here I was thinking the hard part was being a soldier in a war zone! Silly me. The dopey thing about announcing that you are mysterious and multiply layered – and really, who isn’t? – is that some people are just holding a card upside down, and as soon as they turn it over: solved. It was the seven of spades or the queen of hearts all along. And some people are rivers, some people run deep: they are abiding mysteries. That has nothing to do with your twisted childhood, which is yet another two of diamonds. You become an adult when you realize that your wretched past does not make you who you are. Not at all.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I was thinking that Jubilee was a good thing for The Bachelor. When she got out of the Bachelor Mansion for her date, she took a look at the helicopter Ben brought to fetch her in, and asked if anyone else wanted to go instead. The other women in the house thought Jubilee was being ungrateful. The Bachelor is a sensitive scene, it ought to have one of those signs barring all humor from the set – and here Jubilee was making light of (omg!) alone time with bachelor Ben. The women really turned on Jubilee, who happens to be African American, and I am convinced their reaction was racist. This behavior continued when she returned from her date with a rose. They were convinced Jubilee was going to mistreat Ben and get sent home, so they were stunned when it was otherwise. It was ugly, and on MLK Day as it happened. At the end of the episode, Jami the bartender was sent home. Perhaps I am beginning to tell people apart. 