Nigel Slater’s herbed salmonThe quickest of spring suppers. I keep the heat fairly low when cooking the salmon, so the crust doesn’t overcook.Serves 2tarragon a couple of heaped tbsp, choppedparsley 3 heaped tbsp, choppedbasil a couple of heaped tbsp, choppedolive oil 3 tbsp, plus a little for cookinglime 1 large, juice and grated zestsalmon 2 large filletslimes and a little salad to serveMix the herbs, olive oil and the juice and zest of the lime together in a shallow bowl. Slide in the pieces of salmon and roll them in the herbs and oil. Leave in a cool place for a couple of hours.Cook the salmon in a little oil in a shallow, non-stick pan over a low to moderate heat for 4-5 minutes, covered with a lid. Watch carefully to check the heat isn’t so high that the herb crust burns. Serve with salad and fresh limes to squeeze over.From Kitchen Diaries II by Nigel Slater (Fourth Estate, £30). Click here to buy a copy for £24Angela Hartnett’s crab linguine      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Martin Poole for Observer Food MonthlyYou’ll need the freshest crab meat for this. If you’re feeling brave, buy a live crab and cook it yourself, or get it precooked from your fishmonger. Add it near the end to avoid overcooking.Serves 4dried linguine 320golive oil 2 tbspgarlic 1 clove, finely choppedspring onions 4, finely choppedfresh red chilli ½ tsp, finely choppedpicked fresh white crab meat 300gdry white wine 25mlfresh flat leaf parsley 1 tbsp, choppedsalt and freshly ground black pepperBring a large pan of salted water to the boil and cook the linguine for 7-8 minutes, or according to packet instructions, until al dente.Meanwhile, heat the olive oil in a large, deep frying pan and add the garlic, spring onions and chilli. Fry lightly without colouring for 1 minute. Stir in the crab meat and heat through for another minute. Add the wine to the pan and allow to bubble and reduce completely.Drain the linguine and add to the crab mixture. Stir in the parsley and toss everything together to coat evenly. Season to taste and serve immediately.From Angela Hartnett’s Cucina: Three Generations of Italian Family Cooking (Ebury Press, £25). Click here to buy a copy for £20Yotam Ottolenghi and Sami Tamimi’s braised eggs with lamb, tahini and sumac       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Jonathan LovekinThis concoction is Jerusalem fusion food at its very best. It incorporates traditional elements that are purely Palestinian with ingredients characteristic of various Jewish cuisines, and puts them all together in a completely non-traditional way. It was inspired by a very young classic, Hamshukah, signature dish at Machneyuda, the market restaurant that currently serves the most innovative food in town.Jews arriving from Yemen in the first part of the 20th century are responsible for zhoug, the Israeli national chilli paste. It is a wonderful condiment that is believed to have health benefits for the immune system and the stomach. You can spoon it over anything that requires an additional kick.Serves 4For the zhoug (makes about 150ml)coriander 35g (leaves and stems), roughly choppedflat-leaf parsley 10g (leaves and stems), roughly choppedhot green chillies 2, roughly choppedground cumin ½ tspground cardamom ¼ tspground cloves ¼ tspcaster sugar ¼ tspsalt ¼ tspgarlic 1 clove, crushedolive oil 2 tbspwater 2 tbspFor the braised eggsolive oil 1 tbsponion 1 large, finely chopped (200g in total)garlic 6 cloves, sliced thinlyminced lamb 300gsumac 2 tsp, plus extra to finishground cumin 1 tspsalt and black pepperunsalted pistachios 50g, toasted and crushedpine nuts 50g, toastedharissa paste 2 tsppreserved lemon 1 tbsp finely choppedcherry tomatoes 200gchicken stock 120mleggs 4 mediumcoriander leaves 5g picked, or 1 tbsp zhoug (see above)For the yogurt sauceGreek yogurt 100gtahini paste 25glemon juice 2 tbspwater 1 tbspTo make the zhoug, place all of the ingredients in a small food processor bowl. Blitz in a few pulses to get a coarse paste; make sure not to overmix. Store in a sterilised sealed jar in the fridge for up to 3 weeks.For the braised eggs, heat up the olive oil in a medium, heavy-based frying pan for which you have a tight-fitting lid. Add the onion and garlic and sauté on a medium-high heat for 6 minutes to soften and colour a bit. Add the minced lamb and brown well, 5-6 minutes, on a high heat. Season with the sumac, cumin, ¾ teaspoon of salt and some black pepper and cook for another minute. Off the heat, stir in the nuts, harissa and preserved lemon and set aside.While the onion is cooking, heat up a separate small cast-iron or other heavy pan. Once piping hot, add the cherry tomatoes and char on a high heat for 4-6 minutes, tossing the pan occasionally, until slightly blackened on the outside. Set aside.Prepare the yogurt sauce by simply whisking together all the ingredients with a pinch of salt. It needs to be thick and rich, but you may need to add a splash of water if it is stiff.You can leave the meat, tomatoes and sauce at this stage for up to an hour. When you are ready to serve, reheat the meat, add the chicken stock and bring to the boil. Make 4 small wells in the mix and break an egg into each. Cover the pan with a lid and cook the eggs on a low heat for 3 minutes. Place the tomatoes on top, avoiding the yolks, cover again and cook for 5 minutes, until the egg whites are cooked but the yolks are still runny.Remove from the heat and dot with dollops of yogurt sauce, sprinkle with sumac and finish with picked coriander or zhoug. Serve at once.From Jerusalem by Yotam Ottolenghi and Sami Tamimi (Ebury Press, £27). Click here to buy a copy for £21.60Nieves Barragán Mohacho’s white asparagus with romesco sauce      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Martin Poole for Observer Food MonthlyThe Spanish have an affinity with white asparagus spears that we in the UK have not quite caught on to. Cooked from fresh and handled correctly, they are every bit as worthy as their green cousins, and what better way to serve them than with a truly Catalan romesco sauce. Romesco sauce is extremely versatile and can accompany fish, meat and vegetable dishes. It comes from Catalunya, and there are many different recipes and variations – this just happens to be ours – but all are based on chillies, peppers, nuts, garlic, tomato and sherry vinegar. Romesco keeps well in the fridge.Serves 4 as a tapaflaked almonds 60gwhite a sparagus spears 600gromesco sauce ½ quantity (see below)extra virgin olive oilMaldon sea salt and freshly ground black pepperFor the romesco sauce (makes about 650ml)dried red chilli 1, soaked in warm water for 2 hoursdried choricero peppers 4, soaked in warm water for 2 hoursplum tomatoes 5olive oil 100ml, plus 3 tbspMaldon sea salt and freshly ground black peppergarlic 1 whole head, halved horizontallyblanched almonds 100ggood-quality white bread 1 slice, about 2cm thicksherry vinegar 50mlTo make the romesco sauce, heat the oven to 180C/gas mark 4. Drain the soaked chilli and choricero peppers, then remove the seeds and set aside.Put the tomatoes into a roasting dish. Drizzle them with a tablespoon of olive oil and season with salt and pepper. Wrap the two halves of the garlic head in tin foil and add to the roasting dish. Roast in the oven for 20 minutes. When cool enough, pop the garlic cloves out of their skins and set aside.Meanwhile, in a separate smaller roasting dish, toast the almonds in the same oven for 2-3 minutes until lightly browned. Be careful – they burn fast!Heat 2 tablespoons of olive oil in a small frying pan and fry the bread on both sides until golden brown.Put the chilli, choriceros, roasted tomatoes, garlic, toasted almonds, bread and sherry vinegar into a blender or food processor. Add 100ml of olive oil and blitz until smooth. Season with plenty of salt and pepper and keep in the fridge until needed.For the asparagus, preheat the oven to 180C/gas 4. Put the almonds on a baking tray and toast them in the oven for 2 minutes, until lightly browned. Peel the asparagus very carefully with a vegetable peeler, removing all the skin. Trim the stalks about 1cm from the bottom.Bring a large pan of salted water to the boil. Add the asparagus, reduce to a simmer and cook for 20-30 minutes, until the asparagus is very tender and soft to the touch. Remove it with a slotted spoon and plunge it into iced water. Drain well and leave to dry on a clean tea towel.You can serve the asparagus either cold or gently browned in a frying pan with a little olive oil. Whichever way you choose, season it with a little salt and pepper and plenty of romesco sauce, sprinkling over the toasted almonds and a little extra virgin olive oil.From Barrafina by Sam and Eddie Hart and Nieves Barragán Mohacho (Penguin, £25). Click here to buy a copy for £20Shaun Kelly’s braised rabbit with radishes and mustard      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Fredrika StjarneThe mustard appears in two forms. One is sharp dijon mustard stirred into the delicious braising liquid along with cream just before serving. The other is the pop and brine of homemade pickled mustard seeds spooned on the rabbit. Start this recipe a day before you plan to serve it; as the rabbit must be brined (otherwise it tends to be dry) and the mustard seeds pickled overnight.Serves 4water 750mlsea saltrabbit legs 4 whole , or skin-on whole chicken legsfreshly ground pepperpickle juice 125ml, from a jar of picklesyellow mustard seeds 2 tbspextra virgin olive oil 2 tbspshallots 4 small, peeledrabbit or chicken stock 500mlthyme 2 sprigsdouble cream 2 tbspdijon mustard 1 tbspspring onions 4round red radishes 12, with greens attached, washed well to remove any gritlemon juice to servefleur de sel and freshly ground pepper to serveIn a medium saucepan, combine 250ml water and 2 tablespoons plus 1 teaspoon salt and simmer, swirling the pan to dissolve the salt. Remove the pan from the heat, stir in the remaining 500ml water, and let the brine cool to room temperature, stirring occasionally. In a large resealable plastic bag, combine the rabbit legs with the brine and a generous pinch of pepper. Seal the bag, pressing out any air, and refrigerate overnight.In a small jar, combine the pickle juice and mustard seeds. Seal and refrigerate overnight. Drain before using.Heat the oven to 220C/gas mark 7. In a large ovenproof skillet, heat the oil until shimmering. Drain the rabbit and pat dry. Add the rabbit and shallots to the skillet and cook over medium-high heat, turning once, until nicely browned, 5-8 minutes. Add the stock and thyme and bring to a simmer. Transfer the skillet to the oven and braise the rabbit, uncovered, until cooked through, about 30-35 minutes. Transfer the rabbit and shallots to a platter; discard the thyme. Whisk the cream and mustard into the cooking liquid in the skillet.Meanwhile, in a large steamer, cook the spring onions, covered, for 3 minutes. Add the radishes with their greens and cook until still bright red and crisp-tender, about 2 minutes.Spoon the sauce into shallow bowls. Add the rabbit, shallots, radishes and spring onions. Season the radishes with lemon juice, fleur de sel and pepper. Garnish the rabbit with the pickled mustard seeds and serve.From Bistronomy: Recipes from the Best New Paris Bistros by Jane Sigal (Rizzoli Publications, £25). Click here to buy a copy for £20