Margot I used to ask the kids, “who makes the best tomato pasta?” When Hector was very young he would always say “Grandma”, and I was so proud that he had such discerning tastebuds. But then I asked whose pasta was next and the answer was “Dad”. But that’s what happens when you ask these questions – you might not like the answerThe first pasta that Fergus ever cooked for me was spaghetti with cabbage and truffle oil. I had just finished my shift at The Eagle in Farringdon, where we first met, and when he cooked it I knew I was going to fall in love with him. That is the power of pasta So simple and beautiful. You just need to cook your pasta properly, and have good cabbage.Cooking a plate of pasta has so many subtle differences that it is sometimes hard to put your finger on what makes one pasta dish better than another. Fergus cooks hundreds of pastas all the time, but our all-time family favourite is with tomato sauce. Our children are half made up of tomato pasta.The ingredients are always in the cupboard, and it’s so soothing. We don’t eat so much of it now that the children are older, but that means I look forward to it more. It’s a brilliant dish that can feed hundreds of people and in a pretty glamorous way when done well (just look at the River Cafe).Each of us has a slightly different approach to the tomato pasta. Elizabeth, Fergus’s mother, always follows the recipe to the letter. She has an elegant touch with most of the things she does and it seems to come out in her cooking; a plate of pasta expresses this natural style. Fergus is of course a very instinctive cook, which means that he makes a beautiful plate of pasta quite effortlessly.The tomato sauce that I make is definitely a riff on those by Fergus and Elizabeth, but with my own touch. I used to work for an Italian chef, Madeleina Benino, who was ginger like me, and when I cook pasta I remember her. She used butter, as Elizabeth does, but she put hers in at the end. I do the same, and I suspect that Fergus rather disapproves of my butter use, although he denies it. He also always says I cook the onions too long, that I am trying too hard. Then there was my Italian friend Marianna, who showed me the subtlety of just showing the garlic to the oil rather than my approach of garlic to tomato, which might have tended towards the heavy-handed. Overall I would say that it’s about focus, about seeing the whole dish in your mind, about letting the cooking absorb. Don’t do two things at once, and make sure you give it time.The joys of dried pasta can sometimes be underrated, but a good brand is essential. There’s pasta and there’s pasta. The Cipriani brand is divine, but perhaps too thin and delicate for tomato pasta.Sometimes we’ve dreamed about having an Italian restaurant, when we’re having late-night dreams of restaurants that might have been ...Fergus For my tomato pasta you chop a couple of red onions and some garlic, and add quite a lot of olive oil. I don’t dice the onions; I never dice vegetables. They should be chopped thin but still retain their essential nature. It is important to let the natural curve come through, otherwise you’ve removed it from what it is. Margot cooks the onion to colour it then puts in the tomato, but I put the onion in afterwards, so that you still have that important ngah! which says what it is. One should strive for a sauce that is lovely, yummy, soothing … full of whoopee. If our kids are half pasta, Margot tells me that I’m made up almost entirely of pasta. My other position is a creamy sauce, with peas, bacon, oil, cream and butter. Slippery and rich.If you watch Giorgio Locatelli make pasta, and copy what he does, you’ll still not be able to make it the same. That instinct comes from years of practice and generations of Italian mothers ... My sauce is based loosely on my mother’s, but it’s based more on necessity, from when I was first living on my own, in the little flat on London’s Judd Street where I cooked that early cabbage and truffle oil pasta for Margot. Onion, garlic, tinned tomato and a little water to rinse out the tin, then cooked right down so that you have a delicious sauce. It relies on the length of cooking. It’s exhilarating!We used to cook it daily – and still never tire of it. When the kids got older, Hector started to make it for himself and his friends every day, like I did when I was his age.Elizabeth In their earlier years, Fergus and his sister Annabel were brought up on fish fingers. I remember Fergus saying “Mum, are you sure that this is absolutely cooked?” and pushing the crumb aside to reveal a slab of ice. Our lives changed when Barbara, an Italian architecture student, came to stay with us when she was 19. She brought Marcella Hazan into our lives and our table was never the same again. We always had Heinz pasta, and the idea that pasta didn’t come in a tin was a revelation. I sometimes think that this is as near to Heinz as you can get – but much smarter, of course.I used to take Fergus to Lina Stores deli in Soho, they made a great fuss of him. We used to stock up on tinned tomatoes, olive oil and spaghetti to go up to Scotland on holiday. When you have a house full of kids, what better dish to have after you’ve struggled home from the beach, tired and sunburned?Every time I make the tomato pasta, I refer to Marcella’s recipe, even though I’ve made it hundreds of times before. It’s simply a couple of cans of plum tomatoes, one onion – peeled and halved – and a third of a block of butter, cooked together on a low heat for at least 45 minutes. Remove the onion and season before serving. My best friend told me the other day, apropos of my following a knitting pattern, “You’re a tram, Elizabeth. You like to run along the tracks”. I know she meant it kindly, but I felt some indignation. It’s amazing how well tomato and butter go together (just think, until a few years ago no tomato in this country had ever seen olive oil – olive oil was just something you put in your ears). I don’t know why Marcella Hazan didn’t get a damehood.Hector I’ve never even tried to make tomato pasta my Grandma’s way. It’s a special, untouchable thing. I feel that if I tried, I wouldn’t be able to, even if I followed the exact recipe. It would still probably taste different. Hers is always the same, every time, whereas my dad makes stuff up – every time! He’s always sticking chard in there … and that’s fine, he’s just more freestyle. But I’m afraid it doesn’t belong in the special bracket.The tomato pasta that I cook is based on necessity, like Dad’s, but at its core it’s the one that Mum taught me, sweating the onions down until they’re golden brown. I like to put pancetta in there too. Dad always uses olive oil, and I think one of the reason that Grandma’s tomato pasta is so delicious must be because of the quantity of butter. Also, everyone feels that there’s something special about their grandmother’s food!• Interviews by Kitty Cooper• Fergus Henderson is chef patron of St John restaurants, and Margot Henderson is chef patron of Rochelle Canteen