Six months ago, I went to a quiet pub to write a goodbye letter to my uterus. The eve of a hysterectomy is a momentous occasion that deserves some form of ceremony. I sat and tapped my pen to the familiar sensation of a fist yanking my intestines out through my vagina.I have endometriosis; when tissue similar to the lining of the uterus (the endometrium) is found outside the uterus, most commonly in the pelvic cavity, causing pain and inflammation. Two previous surgeries, where one ovary was removed and the other cut in half to free it from a cyst, hadn’t been enough to take the pain away.My only option to get my life back, as far as I could see, was to remove the source of the pain: my uterus. Of course this was also the organ that could one day give me children. A hysterectomy is not a cure for endometriosis – but if the surgeon can remove all the endometriosis at the same time as they remove the womb, the hope is that it won’t grow back. It was a risk I was willing to take.Our male leaders are out of control. Step forward the sensible women | Suzanne Moore I wrote about the little boy I dreamed of sometimes, who walked away from me in criticism, and wondered if he was some maternal premonition of the child I was losing or a symbol of the guilt; maybe a product of the judgment – because people did judge me for choosing to have a hysterectomy at the relatively young age of 32. Not everyone. The family and friends who applauded my decision were the ones who took the calls when I was doubled over in pain, crying in a work toilet. Those who judged knew me only superficially. “But you’re a woman. It’s your womb!” my relatives in Russia gasped in horror no matter how explicitly my pain was described to them. Their logic was self-evident: a woman and womb went hand in hand. And I wasn’t convinced they were wrong. Even my gynaecologist had warned I might grieve the loss of womanhood afterwards. Rationally, it seemed nonsensical; I didn’t want my own children and it was just an organ. But surely not every intricacy of our biology can be consciously understood. What if my womb held an evolutionary code that made me a woman? What if it was the source of my feminine powers? But then there were the facts.I was first alerted to the existence of my uterus at the age of 12 when I discovered my period at a friend’s family gathering and was congratulated by her aunts and uncles for “finally becoming a woman”. Since then, this supposed sacred organ made itself known to me in horrifying ways.For at least two weeks every month, I was disabled by the bleeding, the nausea and, my god, the knife-like, searing pain! I accepted it because I believed it was par for the course. I was a woman, after all.Decades later, when a grapefruit-sized cyst swallowed up my right ovary, I discovered none of it was normal. And though they removed the growth, and the ovary with it, the pain stayed. It no longer took up two weeks of the month; it was now my life. Then a second surgery. And no change. Was I being true to my womanhood by accepting this?On the day of the hysterectomy, my mum and close friend sat with me in the surgical waiting room. They assured me I’d be the same person when I woke up on the other side; just with less pain. When I saw my surgeon’s slippers shuffling towards us across the glittering tiles, all my instincts told me to run.Only logic and the brave faces of my support team helped me glide with him into the surreal white landscape of the operating theatre. And when I woke up, my first thought was, “Am I any different?”After six months, I’m much the same. The pain isn’t always there, and when it is – because there’s still some endometriosis they couldn’t get to – it’s bearable. But some things have changed. When a friend told me she was pregnant, I cried. This was unexpected, I never gushed at pregnancy announcements before.'I'm not a hypochondriac. I have a disease. All these things that are wrong with me are real, they are endometriosis' But this time I was overwhelmed with happiness. She had been trying for a while and had surgery to clear up her own endometriosis. And it worked. My tears were of relief, but also awe. If my experience, as well as that of countless others, has taught me anything, it’s not so easy for a woman to fulfil her supposed biological role.So much can go wrong and so much often does. And I was proud of her resilience. Just like I’m proud of the women who give up trying and adopt a child, or a dog, or decide to be happy not having children at all. And like I’m proud of many friends for whom having children is not a priority, despite their healthy wombs. And like I’m proud of myself for having made the decision to no longer be a slave to my malfunctioning reproductive system and reclaim my body. If there’s anything embedded in a woman’s DNA, it’s a strength that has evolved through the pain of periods and childbirth and malfunctioning reproductive systems that don’t always give many what they want and that torture others who never asked for it. It’s that innate strength that I feel gave me the power to make the decision I did. I feel that strength even more now and I know that my absent womb can’t be the source of it. 