Over the years, I’ve managed to compile a list of warning signs; a series of questions that alert me to bad films. Questions like: “Does this film have a vague one-word title that bears no relation to the plot and could conceivably be used in any genre whatsoever?” and “Is this film about a woman who becomes pathologically violent over the love of a man?” and “Does this film star Katherine Heigl?”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Reader, I just watched the trailer to a new film called Unforgettable. The answer to all three questions is yes. Strap yourself in.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Warner BrosLet’s begin with the three-second pre-roll, the “Don’t Skip This” highlights package designed specifically for YouTube adverts. Here’s everything contained within the first three seconds of the Unforgettable trailer:* A closeup of Katherine Heigl looking sinister!* A closeup of Rosario Dawson looking sinister!* A sex scene!* The implication that Katherine Heigl is somehow watching the sex scene, and it’s making her sad!* Katherine Heigl slashing at Rosario Dawson with a kitchen knife, then throwing her against a wall while making a high-pitched Howard Dean “YAR” noise!* The slogan “WHEN LOVE ENDS, MADNESS BEGINS”!* A huge Inception parp noise and seven apocalyptic drumbeats!      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Warner BrosOK, now the actual story. Katherine Heigl’s husband has left her, and moved on to Rosario Dawson. But it’s OK, because Heigl and Dawson are both still friends, as evidenced by this scene where they sit in a weirdly echoey cocktail bar and repeat snippets of ham-fistedly edited dialogue back and forwards with each other.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Warner BrosRosario Dawson: a character studyYou can see why Heigl’s husband fell for Rosario Dawson. As the trailer proves, she’s beautiful, easy to lift and able to wave at children in a deeply unconventional way, which is obviously something that all kids think is ace. Additionally, her favourite hobby is looking at crockery, which makes her relatable. Truly she is every man’s dream.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Warner BrosKatherine Heigl: a character studyNot like that bitch Katherine Heigl. Look at her. She’s the sort of idiot who puts makeup on really slowly and masturbates at things. If that wasn’t bad enough, she drinks wine and vapes. But worst of all, her favourite hobby is looking at cutlery, which is a crap hobby that only dangerous weirdos and bad idiots like. Ugh. I hate her.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Warner BrosThat guy they’re fighting over: a character studyOK, this is trickier. He doesn’t really wear nice clothes, and his haircut isn’t very good, and he’s only slightly taller than a child, and for the entire duration of the trailer he doesn’t say or do a single interesting thing, and he may as well be carved out of butter for all the purpose he actually serves. Still, women like that sort of thing, right?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Warner BrosBack to the plot. Katherine Heigl is sad that Rosario Dawson has taken her place. But fortunately for her, Rosario Dawson was once violently attacked in the past. This means that Heigl can create a fake Rosario Dawson Facebook account, use it to contact her attacker, tell him Rosario Dawson’s address, then sit back to vape and masturbate to her heart’s desire, content in the knowledge that she put in a good day of being one-dimensionally evil. NOTE: I had to watch the trailer six times to figure this out.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Warner BrosThen everything goes blurry. I’m adding this screenshot just to prove that this was deliberate on the part of the film-makers, just in case you think that watching this unforgivably shoddy trailer has caused your retinas to detach or anything.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Warner BrosFinally, Rosario Dawson smashes Katherine Heigl’s face into a wall. If that’s what it takes for me to forget that I ever wasted an hour of my life watching and writing about this absurd mess of a trailer, please can I be next in line?