I am in the park with my friend Sarah. I first met Sarah because we both have daughters who were born as a result of donor conception. Now my daughter, Hope, often plays with Sarah’s daughter, Molly. As we watch them on the climbing frame, Sarah says: “So what do you reckon? Are you going to look for Hope’s diblings?”I have no idea what Sarah is talking about. She explains that diblings are donor siblings – children who are biologically related through donated eggs or sperm. Now, through the Donor Sibling Registry, you can locate diblings online. Sarah has met the mother of one of Molly’s diblings. The meeting was a success. As Molly is an only child, and Sarah a single mother, more “family” feels safer.I am less sure. We have always been entirely open with Hope, who is now five, about her origins but, as a consequence, she already has more family than anyone needs. She was a donor and a surrogate baby. So there’s my family, my husband’s family, our egg donor, our surrogate. Do we need diblings as well? The word may be new to me but I have always known that our egg donor, who lives in Iowa, has donated eggs to more than one other family.I ask my husband what he thinks. “When Hope is older, she can find those children if she wants,” he says. “Why would we meet a bunch of people in the midwest to whom we have no real connection?” He is right but I am curious. We all enjoy those endless nature-nurture debates, those games of genetic snap. (“Amazing, you’ve both got the same long ear lobes.”)“No real connection.” That phrase knocks around in my head. When our surrogate was pregnant with Hope, I thought about and researched the genetic connection. It wasn’t the science that interested me but genetics as we live it. What soon became clear is that genetics matters less than what we think about genetics. As a writer, I immediately saw it as narrative.I am useless at maths because my mother is useless at maths. We use statements such as these as markers, as guides, as a means to navigate through the confusion of life. But confirmation bias is king in the land of lived genetics. What we are generally doing is searching for evidence to support a story we have already decided to tell.I am useless at maths because my mother is useless at maths. Genetics might be the explanation, but this aversion might also be explained by environmental factors. Or it may be nothing more than coincidence. After all, that statement may be accurate but I have neglected to note that in physical appearance, and in just about every other way, my mother and I are entirely different.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alice Jolly and Hope at home in Gloucestershire. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianThe fact that lived genetics is nothing more than narrative does not mean it has no importance. For those who cannot tell part of their story, life can be hard. I have a friend who was adopted and has spent years in therapy because “the first few pages of the book of my life are missing”. We made sure that Hope will be able to meet her donor, in an effort to ensure that, although the pages might be puzzling, they will all be there.You could say that, as I myself am not donor-conceived, I can’t understand these questions. But genetics does not guarantee simplicity or similarity. In my family, I was always the cuckoo in the nest. Much as I love them, my family has always been a bunch of people to whom I have no real connection. Although I am generally quite happy, I have never known what it means to feel at home.When I was a child that troubled me. I fantasised that I was adopted, needing something to explain why the pieces of the jigsaw didn’t fit. In my late teens, I explored Buddhism, but found the idea that the self might not exist too nihilistic to accept. During my 20s, I travelled the world, always waiting for the moment when I would finally turn a corner and think: “Oh, this is it. Home.” But whether I was near or far, the moment never came.'I think of my egg donor every day' Eventually (after further difficulties) I fell into the hands of the shrinks. They always seemed to want me to “know myself” or to reach “self-acceptance”. Now I wonder why I accepted that idea so readily. It may have been partly because the vast majority of the novels I was reading were stories about a character who explores their family history and, as a result, lives more fully in the present. This has been such a prevailing narrative over the last 30 years – in fiction and in life – that it too often goes unchallenged.Overall, all the shrink-driven “self discovery” that I did was intellectually interesting, but increasingly the “search for the true self” felt like digging further and further into a bottomless pit. “Self-acceptance” also seemed questionable. Those words always make me think of an elderly uncle who everyone finds difficult. He meets any suggestion for a new approach with the words: “I am who I am.” Sometimes “self-acceptance” is just an excuse for failing to experiment and change.Strangely, it was a big house move that fixed my problem. After getting married, we lived for 16 years in Brussels. I was urban and European. That was an identity that I had built for myself. Brussels never felt like home, but it was an exile I enjoyed.Then we packed up and moved to rural Gloucestershire. How would I ever adapt? Answer – put on a pair of wellies and speak to people in English. Problem sorted. It turned out that adapting to a new life was not difficult but worryingly easy. How could I be two such different people? Might I actually be hundreds of others as well? Obviously, yes. There was never any need to find the missing piece of the jigsaw. In fact, there wasn’t a jigsaw.I realised that because I don’t feel at home anywhere, then I am at home everywhere. I don’t know why I was surprised. The words of Walt Whitman are stuck on my office wall. “We contain multitudes.” I had thought of that as a writerly aspiration. Now I welcomed it as a daily reality. Nihilism turned into liberation. We are nothing more than what we decide to be on any given day. It turns out that the Buddhists were right all along.Just at the time, it also happened that I had a conversation with an elderly friend of my mum’s. That friend was in her 80s and has a 40-year-old son who was adopted. Her son had never asked anything about the adoption but my mum’s elderly friend had come to a decision that she should give him the paperwork. But her son said: “Mum, you are the only mum I have ever known. I don’t want to know about anyone else.” Then he chucked the papers on the fire. As a writer, I was horrified. That fascinating story, gone up in smoke. But I was also troubled – and impressed. The son’s decision seemed so profoundly unfashionable – and yet possibly right.In the years to come, will Hope be troubled by her origins? Or might she simply chuck the paperwork on the fire? We shall see. But what I would like to say to her is: “You are whoever you want to be. You don’t have to be limited by me, or your father, or your donor, or by that tribe of long-ear-lobe diblings in the midwest. You can take what you want from all of those people and dismiss what you want as well.”Easy, of course, to suppose that this is a subject of interest only to middle-class women who have genetically exotic children or people who have time to sit around asking: “Who am I?” But it goes so much wider; right to the heart of so much of the confusion that currently surrounds us. Our whole nation is riven now by (often toxic) debates about “who we really are”.All of this is a dead end. We are never just one thing or another. We need to resist such reductive thinking. Theresa May dismissed the “citizens of nowhere” but the response to her comments suggests that many people suspect that identity is not much more than a number of half-truths we have told ourselves. The unpleasant fact is that an obsession with identity is, finally, self-indulgent. When I look back on my younger self, I feel embarrassed by the fact that my own life seemed so important to me.It is never a good idea to drive using only the rear-view mirror. Markers and guides can be useful but they should not deter us from stepping off the path. It may not quite be true that we can wake up on any day and become new people. But we could try to live as though it is. Focusing on identity can limit and constrain. Who cares what we are? Is it not more interesting to consider what we might become?• Dead Babies and Seaside Towns by Alice Jolly (Unbound, £14.99). To order a copy for £12.74, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call the Guardian Bookshop on 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.