It’s almost a year since Sarah Maltby, sat comfortably at home on her sofa in the sleepy days after Christmas, got a phone call to warn her that the Vikings of Jorvik were up to their waists in water.“The first I knew of it was a call from the staff on duty saying the centre was open, there were visitors inside, but water was starting to pour in and what should they do,” the director of attractions for York Archaeological Trust said. “There was only one answer. Get the visitors out and close immediately.”Jorvik, the unique visitor attraction under the streets of York and built on an archaeology site that revealed the real everyday lives of its Viking residents, has been closed ever since. It has only just announced a reopening date in April 2017.Most of York has almost forgotten the devastating floods of December 2015. Much of the city, including the area around the minster, was on higher ground, and bars and shops stayed open. Closer to the river, people were being rescued by boat from first floor windows.For those directly affected the impact was shattering and long lasting. Some of the staff at Jorvik and the Archaeological Trust are only just getting back into their homes. Jorvik lost the income from the 400,000 visitors who come from all over the world each year, adding up to 18 million over the 32 years since it opened.No one was hurt, and thanks to staff on their Christmas break wading back through the floodwaters to help, every original artefact from the 1976 excavation in Coppergate which uncovered the buried world was rescued - including the many shoes and the single sock, some of the best preserved knives from anywhere in the Viking world, combs and jewellery, carpenter’s tools and the only Viking panpipes ever found, the famous helmet - Anglo Saxon and already an antique when the Vikings came - and a silver dirham coin from Samarkand.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   One of the original figurines from when the attraction opened in 1984. Photograph: Nils Jorgensen/Rex FeaturesBy the time all the objects were laid out in the offices upstairs, the electricity had failed and the reconstructed Viking streets and houses, water lapping through their windows and doors, were in pitch darkness. The mobile phone signal disintegrated. Hundreds of miles away, back in his parents’ house, marketing officer Paul Whiting set about rebuilding the crashed website to announce the disaster.A handful of the human and animal figures valued at up to £40,000 each survived, including a raven sitting on a fence, and a glum-faced man whose eyes now seem to catch viewers accusingly. “He is quite unnerving if you’re down here at night,” David Jennings, the chief executive of the trust, said.Maltby said there was never any question about whether to rebuild. They were covered by insurance, and they could use the staff and the material which had been saved to mount touring exhibitions and installations at other sites in the city, including the neighbouring church, the museum and the minster, and a special display when the Theatre Royal reopened after a major rebuild.The most radical decision was to rebuild a renewed and expanded version of essentially the same attraction which opened in 1984, where visitors sit in mechanical cars and are carried through the recreated streets peopled with models built with obsessive attention to detail. The formula was widely copied in the 1980s and 90s, but most of the imitators, including The Tales of Robin Hood in Nottingham and The Oxford Story - where visitors rode on wooden desks - have now closed.“We still had the ride itself, which survived in remarkably good shape because the mechanism was hung from the ceiling,” Maltby said. “And people really loved it. We now have visitors who came when we opened and have since brought their children and grandchildren, and I think they’d be desperately disappointed if we got rid of it.”This time, at a cost of around £5m, slightly more than half covered by insurance, the story will be a little darker and more nuanced. There will be a death bed scene, a slaughter house and among the people discussing the latest goods landed on the wharf, a slave trader.The visitors who arrive each day from all over the world to discover that Jorvik is closed will now find prominent notices promising that the Vikings will be back on 8 April, complete with crowing cocks and crying babies, smells of woodsmoke and stew pots, rotting fish and dung heaps.