All black cabs in London will be required to take credit cards and contactless payments from October, Transport for London has announced, as the taxi trade seeks to keep up with the technological challenge from Uber, the ride-hailing app.The minimum fare of £2.40 will rise across the board by 20p to cover the costs of using the new technology. Credit card companies have agreed to cut the costs of accepting cards and other contactless methods, such as smartphone, carried by cabbies. Fees will fall below 3% of the transaction compared with a current rate that can be as high as 10%.Cheap cab ride? You must have missed Uber’s true cost | Evgeny Morozov Groups representing taxi drivers said the decision by TfL, which regulates public transport in the capital, would benefit both drivers and customers. The move by TfL’s board followed a consultation in which 86% of respondents backed the move.“Every black cab taking cards is fantastic news for London. In future, when you hail a cab you can be sure that you can pay the way you like – card, contactless or cash. That is without doubt better for our customers and for drivers who will benefit from extra work,” said Steve McNamara, general secretary of the Licensed Taxi Drivers Association.Boris Johnson, the mayor of London, said: “It’s great news that with a quick swipe of a card, millions of passengers will be able to pay for their journeys in London’s iconic black cabs. It’s an essential part of modern life and it’ll make paying for your journey swifter and simpler than ever before.”The move towards mandatory card payments in black cabs comes at a time when London’s 22,500 cabbies are battling the challenge from Uber, the US company estimated to be worth $40bn, which has revolutionised the taxi business in cities around the world.London's black-cab drivers: 'Four cabbies pay more tax than Uber' London’s black-cab operators are fighting back with smartphone apps of their own such as Hailo and Gett. Gett offers discounts on the metered fare for journeys of six miles or more and those made in off-peak hours. Hailo allows Londoners to get a taxi through their smartphone.Remo Gerber, chief executive of Gett UK, said: “This is another strong sign of how the London black cab trade is embracing the future; not only have cabbies embraced apps, but everyone is behind making card payments universally accepted and by that making all journeys easier for Londoners.” In the latest twist in their rivalry with Uber, London’s cabbies are considering court action to try to revoke Uber’s licence to operate in the city, citing the fact that the firm pays no corporation tax in the UK. Last month TfL decided against implementing proposals that would have hit Uber’s service, including forcing operators to provide booking confirmation details to the passenger at least five minutes before a journey starts. 