There are many reasons to recommend Hell or High Water (StudioCanal, 15) at this or any time of year, but in the dank, shivery no-man’s-land of early January, the sheer, sticky heat of David Mackenzie’s western-infused heist thriller makes it a positive shot in the arm. The still, steaming mugginess of a west Texas afternoon veritably wafts off the screen; cars skid and characters lope across the burnt landscape at a kind of urgent half-speed, which does nothing to diminish the copper-wire tension and conductivity of Taylor Sheridan’s nifty script.Scotsman Mackenzie, having truly found form with his rough-and-tumble prison drama Starred Up, now taps into a vein of terse, elemental, morally mousetrapped American storytelling practised by everyone from Steinbeck to the Coen brothers. There’s nothing twisty or unfamiliar in this curt, classical tale of two brothers – one bad, one a shade better – systematically raiding banks across the state to save the family farm, however effectively it rattles along on its own sense of danger.But execution is all here, from the hungry, rumbling performances of Jeff Bridges, Ben Foster and a never better Chris Pine to the literate regional sting of Sheridan’s dialogue and the gliding, no-nonsense shooting of that cornbread locale. Sometimes it’s good to know exactly what you’re getting.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Emma Suárez in the ‘gloriously scored melodrama’ of Julieta.And then, of course, it more often isn’t, which brings us to Pedro Almodóvar’s Julieta (Pathé, 15), an entirely lovely surprise in disguise. It has all the outward trappings, the poster-paint colouring and the open, fragrant feminine sympathies that we eagerly expect from Spain’s most singular modern auteur. But unpeel its exquisite tissue-paper wrapping and this split-level character study is an Almodóvar film that moves and feels like no other.Yes, there’s something of the gutsy, deep-seated melancholy of 2002’s Talk to Her here, and it’s certainly his greatest work since that career high. But there’s a pensive reserve inherited from the quiet, finely muscled short stories of Alice Munro, the director’s unexpected selection of literary source. Yet Munro and Almodóvar share a mutual, athletic flexibility with narrative space and time. The director’s most ingenious conceit is to stage its nonlinear portrait of a life unravelled by guilt as a kind of thespian duet.Pedro Almodóvar: ‘Nobody sings. There’s no humour. I just wanted restraint’ Adriana Ugarte and Emma Suárez’s respectively spiky and sorrowful performances as younger and older incarnations of the eponymous Julieta are placed in loving, alternating dialogue with each other, each Julieta, somehow, a corrective and a cautionary tale to the other. Almodóvar’s chosen key can only go so low, however: this is still lush, sangria-shaded, gloriously scored melodrama. It’s the fine, fluttering pauses and reversals that catch you off guard.Also back on song, albeit not wholly in tune, is Spike Lee, who finally feels intellectually and stylistically replenished in Chi-Raq (Signature, 15), a grinding, bristling, unwieldy locomotive of a film that has a torrent of things to say, sing and even shout about. Resourcefully relocating Aristophanes’s Lysistrata to the ragged ganglands of Chicago, the film could feel academic in its articulation of modern American racial friction and urban class warfare through its classical prism. Yet it expresses itself entirely, even exhaustingly, from the gut throughout. If it all palls a bit toward the close, it’s not because the film runs out of steam. If anything, its steam runs out of script.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Marpessa Dawn, centre, as Eurydice in the ‘throbbing, glittering’ Black Orpheus. Photograph: Allstar/Cinetext/Lopert PicturesChi-Raq has an ideal, and ideally timed, double-bill partner in the week’s best rerelease: the Criterion Collection’s gorgeous clean-up of Marcel Camus’s 1959 Palme d’Or winner Black Orpheus (Criterion, 12), a throbbing, glittering reworking of Orpheus and Eurydice set to the bossa nova beat of then-contemporary Rio de Janeiro in carnival heat. Unlike Chi-Raq, the film’s cultural conflicts and resonances work without rhetoric, reliant entirely on sensual excess to transport the viewer’s sensibilities. Its immersive, spinning-top swirl has barely dated a day.Belgian realist Joachim Lafosse’s sternly compassionate view of the human condition is at its most clear-eyed in After Love (Curzon Artificial Eye, 12), a scenes-from-a-marriage breakdown in which well-worn relationship crisis points regain a bracing, shocking snap from the simple, practical frankness of the writing and performances. Bérénice Bejo, in particular, redeems a patchy run of recent work with her piercing, tacitly raging turn as a woman battling her husband on every conceivable point of contention. I wish Equity (Sony, 15) seethed a little more. Meera Menon’s conscientious financial-crisis thriller boasts a killer hook – placing women in the big boardroom chairs for a pointed feminist riposte to a spate of boorish Wall Street dramas – and a flinty lead in Anna Gunn, but there’s a glazed, tentative hollowness to its depiction of an already glib environment.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘An indelible final impression’: Miss Sharon Jones!Finally, extending Netflix’s notable January run of new additions, veteran documentarian Barbara Kopple’s Miss Sharon Jones! is a lovely, nick-of-time screen valentine to the vibrant, brass-lunged and newly late soul dynamo, one of the saddest and most premature losses from 2016’s grim plundering of the musical firmament. As Kopple directly addresses Jones’s long-term illness, there’s a rain cloud of regret already hanging over this intimate tribute, but those vital, jumping performance sequences blast it away. Backed by her brilliant band, the Dap-Kings, she rocks the microphone like one who knows she has a limited time to make an indelible final impression. All of last year’s major casualties deserved a farewell such as this.