Two unusual novels received mixed reviews this month. A Line Made by Walking, by Sara Baume, is about a young woman recovering from a breakdown in her grandmother’s house. It is “as tender and luminous as her debut”, Spill Simmer Falter Wither, according to Eithne Farry in the Mail on Sunday. For Sally Bailey in the Times, “Baume is a writer interested in loneliness and emotional retreat… [her] novel requires some deep breaths from its reader. It takes a while before you grasp quite what you’ve got yourself into – that is, an intimate relationship with a creative depressive. This is partly because Baume’s novel remains so plotless, as plotless as depression itself … ” Which is not necessarily depressing, as Katherine A Powers explained in the Irish Times. “Baume is a master at breathing the past into domestic spaces, of showing the presence of goneness … a virtuoso of metaphoric description ... The imaginative richness and limberness of her descriptions, their power to immerse the reader in Frankie’s senses, emotions, and place on earth, is where this novel truly excels.” A minor quibble was that “the art commentary seems mere academic gadgetry”.In Jonathan Lethem’s The Blot, a backgammon hustler with a terminal brain tumour endures a gruesome operation. Scotland on Sunday’s Stuart Kelly counts himself as a fan, calling Lethem “required reading”. “[He] can fire out ideas and images like no one else, but that would mean little except for the glorious timbre of the prose itself … Elegance of word and thought still needs heart and purpose. In all its pyrotechnics, Lethem never loses humanity.” But for Daniel Swift in the Spectator, “all [the] metaphors and symbols threaded throughout – for sight and blindness, risk, dice and games – culminate in a novel which is slightly contrived”. The Daily Mail’s John Harding found that it “zips along at a cracking pace – which is perhaps contributory factor in why it never really engages the reader’s emotions”. And in the Observer, Lionel Shriver declared it a mixed bag: “engaging, entertaining and sharp for its first two-thirds. Then it goes to hell … Lethem is a flashy stylist, and his prose is a pleasure. So try reading to about page 175, then put The Blot down while you’re still having a good time.”The human brain is also a subject of Sean Carroll’s The Big Picture, which explores nothing less than the nature of the universe and our place in it. It was picked as a winner by both Brian Cox in the Mail on Sunday (“It’s fascinating to see a real working physicist thinking these things through and trying to come to a conclusion”) and Steven Pinker in the Observer (“Carroll, a philosophically sophisticated physicist, discusses consciousness without gimmicks, and deftly shows how current physics is so solid that it rules out ESP for ever.”) In Science magazine, Barry Loewer described how “[it] sets out to show how various phenomena, including thought, choice, consciousness, and value, hang together with the scientific account of reality that has been developed in physics in the past 100 years. He attempts to do all this without relying on specialised jargon from philosophy and physics and succeeds spectacularly in achieving both aims.” The Financial Times’s Clive Cookson was irritated by the poorly linked chapters, but overall called it “an extraordinarily ambitious synthesis of science and philosophy” with “a lively and sympathetic author”.