Because I studied the piano and had talent, the adults in my life directed my attention to Philippa Schuyler, a young mixed race (which in those days meant Negro) pianist. She’d started composing at the age of three and performing with orchestras at eight – she was clearly beyond my ken. I was truly good, but her achievements deflated me. I always knew I lacked the necessary incandescence. I knew what was required to be a serious classical pianist. I also knew something about the social and psychological work required of young Philippa. She was supposed to be exceptional, prodigious and a reproof to all who belittled her racial heritage. She was supposed to convert them from scornful disbelievers to fervent admirers.My parents always told my sister and me that if we wanted to we could be doctors and lawyers, like my father and his brothers, like some of their women friends. Denise and I had art in our sights though. She was the designated dancer in the family, and nothing thrilled her (or me) more than the ballerina figures of Maria and Marjorie Tallchief; more than Moira Shearer vaulting to greatness and plunging to death in The Red Shoes; more than the imperilled London ballet school of the valiant Madame Holbein in Rumer Godden’s A Candle for St Jude.As the middle and late years of childhood approached I realised that I must seek my own imaginative destiny and join it to certain practicalities. Musical theatre? I knew every song of every show Mary Martin was in, from South Pacific to Peter Pan. New stars, new toasts of Broadway emerged each season; I studied their charisma avidly. None of them was black. Oh, but there was cabaret … If one was elegant and charismatic like Lena Horne or Eartha Kitt; if one went to Europe like Josephine Baker (after finishing college, of course). I had excellent pitch, but my voice was ordinary and I feared I could never acquire the allure of these women. Maybe I could be a nightclub pianist revered for her classical training, like Hazel Scott?It was simpler in the 1950s for an ambitious girl to dream of being an artist than a doctor, lawyer or scholar. Women were rewarded for “creativity” (up to a point). And the performing arts displayed an intriguing blend of craft, discipline and charismatic excess (the lives of Isadora Duncan and Judy Garland); self-sacrifice (you gave all for your art); and triumphant selfishness (everyone around you gave their all for you and your art).But I became a writer. Several elementary school teachers had described me as a “future authoress or poetess”. Mother took me to meet Chicago’s leading black librarian, who published a poem of mine in the magazine she edited for Negro children.From Jane Austen to Katherine Mansfield, from Little Women to Rebecca, the libraries of girls like me were filled with women writers. (The official readings of our schools were not.) Christina Rossetti, Sara Teasdale and Elinor Wylie were in every poetry anthology I had as a child. My mother had even bought me Bronzeville Boys and Girls, the work of the Negro “poetess” Gwendolyn Brooks.Nevertheless, from the start of my writing life I was anxious about fully expressing my thoughts and feelings in words. This had something to do with my quest to be a perfect girl and a perfect Negro. Parents, teachers and schoolmates were my audience: if I alienated them I would jeopardise my place in the world; risk being disgraced and cast out. The women artists I paid such rapt attention to had to please – thrill, seduce, beguile. Even the ones who started out as controversial rebels (Martha Graham, Maria Callas, Billie Holiday) triumphed by commanding throngs of worshippers.I was nearing the end of childhood when I started to pay real attention to jazz singers. Women excelled as jazz singers; they surpassed most of the men. Black women excelled as jazz singers; they surpassed most of the whites. Jazz singers like Ella Fitzgerald and Sarah Vaughan weren’t beauties, so they didn’t trail clouds of grandiloquent myth, the kind that daunted even as it thrilled you.Like dancers with choreography or actors with scripts, jazz singers could take material that was known, even loved, then risk interpreting and revising it. They could conceal even as they revealed themselves. Inflection, timing and tonality were their language, at least as much as words. And it was their voices that mattered most, not the fears or fantasies their bodies might arouse.The voice was the source of their power, their alchemy their art. In this, I began to sense – oh blessed intimation – they were like writers.• Negroland by Margo Jefferson is published by Granta.