Have you ever seen a truly wild river, without human management, settlements or dams? Well, your chances are decreasing. Concern over fossil fuel use is leading to a huge rise in hydroelectric projects. China is building hundreds of dams, some on Asia’s last wild rivers: the Salween (called the Nu in China) and the Brahmaputra (Yarlung Tsangpo in Tibet).Europe is also in the grip of a dam bonanza. According to the NGO Riverwatch, more than 570 sizeable dam projects are being planned in the Balkans alone. This is particularly controversial as many of Europe’s untouched rivers are in this area, which is home to an estimated 40% of the continent’s snails and mussels, plus 69 endemic fish species, among them the huchen – a rare Danube salmon. Even a small country like Macedonia has more than 400 proposed hydro projects.  There are 33 hydro electric projects planned for the Vjosa river, Albania. Photograph: AlamyFor years, there was a consensus that dam building was a flawed practice. Huge projects in the 1950s and 1960s were found by a World Bank report to have underproduced electricity and mainly benefited mining corporations. The effects were almost all bad: species extinction; angry, displaced people; and lost cultural heritage.But dam building is back in fashion. In Romania, campaigners are fighting to protect the Raul Alb, one of the country’s few untouched rivers. It is 22km long, but its influence and importance are massive.Romanian biologist Calin Dejeu says: “The Raul Alb is unbelievably wild, with old forest around it and no roads. A dam will utterly change that.” Like many others, this project has slipped through without much protest, partly because it is so remote and unknown.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The 1,749-mile Salween is one of the world’s longest undammed rivers Photograph: Robert Nickelsberg/Getty ImageSlovenia’s Sava river is much longer at 990km, with several settlements, but 11 proposed dams threaten a huchen hotspot. This issue has fuelled a campaign, Save the Blue Heart of Europe. There are plans for 33 hydro projects on Albania’s Vjosa river, which will thwart local hopes of a wild river national park to attract tourists. In Turkey, the Ilisu dam is planned on the Tigris. Britain pulled out of funding, but the Turkish government has pressed on, despite strong opposition from the estimated 78,000 affected residents. One casualty would be the ancient Kurdish city of Hasankeyf.The World Bank, dissuaded from providing dam finance for a few years, is now back. Proposed contenders are the Inga 3 on the Congo, the biggest hydro project in African history, and other giant structures on the Zambezi. They all aim to sell electricity to mining firms and South African consumers.Back in eastern Europe, the projects threaten to spoil wilderness areas, which will never recover and will never have a chance to realise any tourism potential. “It’s a critical moment,” says Dejeu. “The valley is guarded, mafia-style, by the owner of the company and ‘volunteers’, with clubs and dogs. I’ve filed a legal protest about the illegal deforestation, which has started, but the authorities are doing nothing.”