You don’t have to be a luddite to be worried about the effect technology is going to have on employment. When asked: ‘What do you think is the biggest threat to job security in Australia?’ in an Essential poll last month, 18% of those surveyed said it was the impact of technological change, while 31% said there was more to fear from free-trade deals that allow foreign workers into the labour market.Combined, it means almost half of Australians fear technology or foreigners are a threat to their jobs. This leads to some fundamental questions about the impact the fourth industrial revolution is going to have on migration and refugees. If jobs now routinely done by migrants (such as cleaning, fast food and other low-skilled, low-paid work) are increasingly automated, does it mean countries take fewer migrants? Does it mean they will only want well-educated migrants? And does this have implications for how refugees are valued by the wider community? Pamela Curr, of the Asylum Seekers Resource Centre, says refugees have often filled jobs in rural areas. “Most particularly during the mining boom, young Australian men would much rather go to the mines where they could earn $100,000 a year plus, than go out and work in the agricultural field. So for instance, in meat processing, chicken processing and a lot of the heavy agricultural work in isolated locations, they were desperate for workers,” she says.Curr says Hazaras, who mainly come from central Afghanistan and have a background in agriculture, regularly filled regional jobs, often in very isolated locations, after coming out of immigration detention in Australia.Why teaching graduates to be flexible is more important than worrying about jobs that don't yet exist But those isolated locations have just become a little less isolated. As of 29 September, farmers are allowed to fly 25kg drones over their property without an unmanned aircraft operator’s certificate. “That’s a drone that can take a pretty good payload, could carry a fair bit of chemical around for crop-spraying, [and] could easily carry cameras and other gear to do visual inspections,” said Peter Gibson of the Civil Aviation Safety Authority. Not every job taken over by drones will be one previously done by a migrant, of course, and Sydney-based migration agent John McQuaid says Australia is looking at technology and innovation as a positive. “The government looks at what ideas can be turned into employment opportunities for Australians. What they are seeing is that the innovations area [such as new business startups, entrepreneurs and research] is providing jobs at a rate four or five times above almost any other start-up type businesses,” he said. The federal government’s National Innovation and Science Agenda website says it “is helping innovators to get funding to back their ideas and have a go”. As part of its “global innovation strategy”, which started in July 2016, the government is investing $36m​ over four years to improve Australia’s international science, research and innovation collaboration. One of the strategy’s aims is “to build strong regional linkages in the Asia-Pacific”.African migrants in Australia report worst discrimination, diversity study reveals Dr Anna Boucher of the University of Sydney is a migration specialist – she co-founded the migration studies unit at the London School of Economics – and says technology will not lead to a drop in immigration. “Australia has, as a percentage of population, one of the highest rates of immigration in the developed, western world … and I don’t see that changing any time soon,” she said. “If you look at all the predictions on immigration that have come through the [Australian government’s] intergenerational reports over the last 10 to 15 years, they have all been downwardly conservative, so what actually happened has been much greater than what has been predicted.“If we look at what’s happened with automation already over the last, say, 20 years, and what’s happened with immigration, there doesn’t seem to be an inverse relationship. Not all of this can be controlled by government. If people want to migrate, they figure out ways to migrate. They’ll work through the channels that exist, and if they can’t then they’ll work through illegal channels to migrate.”Jiyoung Song, director of migration and border policy at the Lowy Institute, says economic migrants normally fill gaps in the labour market, rather than replace people. “There will still be the need of skilled migrants who will work across different national boundaries. The future of work is already having an impact on our lives.” She says advances in technology means national borders are increasingly no barrier to jobs – for instance, there is no reason a computer coder in India can’t do work for companies in Australia, the US or anywhere.With robots, is a life without work one we'd want to live? While well-educated migrants are very much in global demand, people with fewer skills will still also be needed, Song says. “Those with the wanted knowledge and skill sets are likely to have greater mobility than those without. However, countries need both skilled and low-skilled migrants to fill the jobs the locals can’t do or don’t want to do, in other words, either the most cutting-edge jobs or the most unwanted jobs in domestic markets.”She says advances in technology are unlikely to affect how refugees are valued. “Refugees are accepted for humanitarian grounds, not economic demand ... However, in recent years and at the UN summit [in September], legal and complementary pathways were suggested as alternative ways to protect the rights of refugees and asylum seekers.“What this means is that governments are considering the option to offer various other ways to settle temporarily and permanently for refugees and asylum seekers who have skills they want. This is a progressive solution not many governments are buying into at the moment, but it is the only viable way to solve the current refugee crisis,” said Song.Matching refugees’ skills to jobs in their new country benefits both the individual and the host nation. In Berlin, Syrian refugee and developer Hussein Shaker, who struggled to find work using his IT skills due to his lack of German, co-founded MigrantHire. He soon found that tech companies in the city were so desperate for developers they didn’t care whether employees could speak German. It was their knowledge of ones and zeroes that mattered most.Such innovation is happening locally too, with the Red Cross partnering with tech communities in Sydney and Melbourne for “Techfugees hackathons” to find new ways that can help refugee families settle into Australian life. Techfugees looks to address some of the issues faced by refugees and asylum seekers by connecting developers, designers, entrepreneurs and startups with non-profit and community organisations.Vicki Mau, manager of migration support programs at Red Cross, says the ideas that have come out of Techfugees, such as an app to help connect migrants with interpreters and another to help link individuals to friends, mentors, services and employment, have been very innovative. “These are great for Red Cross and invaluable for participants, such as refugees and asylum seekers looking for work and mentors,” she said.