The Walking Dead's Robert Kirkman sets out to fix TV For decades, if you wanted to be a successful comics writer or artist, you ended up working for either DC or Marvel. With luck, you got to create bestselling monthly stories featuring headline heroes such as Batman or the X-Men. But even if your cool Spider-Man art ended up on a million T-shirts, you were basically taking a flat rate to babysit intellectual property. In 1992, seven popular artists announced they were guillotining all ties with both Marvel and DC to set up their own rival company: Image, a comics publisher where writers and artists would own all the rights to their work.A quarter of a century later, Image hasn’t just survived, it has thrived. As well as being the home of The Walking Dead comic, the cornerstone of Robert Kirkman’s unstoppable zombie empire, the company publishes critically acclaimed original series such as Saga, Sex Criminals, The Wicked + The Divine and Southern Bastards. To mark 25 years of industry disruption, 1 February was declared Image Comics Day, with selected new issues available for just 25c and some wicked novelty covers harking back to the extreme style of the 1990s, a time when antiheroes apparently couldn’t stop gritting their teeth or waving samurai swords.But Image is also looking forward. This month features the launch of The Old Guard, a new high-concept action-conspiracy comic from veteran writer Greg Rucka and Argentine artist Leandro Fernández. A grumpy band of ancient unkillable warriors now operate as a fussily independent 21st-century special ops unit, led by formidable warrior woman Andromache of Scythia (or “Andy” for short). It’s the immortal ennui of Highlander with added Heckler & Koch automatic weapons; a tough, hard-boiled tale rendered remarkable by Fernández’s fluid art and unexpectedly vivid colours from Daniela Miwa. Like Image itself, The Old Guard feels as if it is in it for the long haul.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   2000AD’s 40th anniversary special. Photograph: 2000AD ComicsFuture Shock! The Story of 2000AD review – classic comic in the frame When Image president Todd McFarlane was opening the company’s birthday mail, hopefully there was a card from 2000AD featuring Judge Dredd staring down the sights of his Lawgiver pistol and growling “many happy returns, whippersnappers”. Last September, the cult UK weekly reached its 2,000th issue – or prog, in the parlance – but this month it has been pulling out all the drokks to celebrate an even bigger milestone. The first issue of 2000AD was published on 26 February 1977, cost 8p and featured a cover-mounted space spinner.There’s no free frisbee with this month’s 2000AD 40th Anniversary Special but it does collect six new stories featuring long-standing 2000AD favourites – including Dredd, rock-hard Celtic barbarian Sláine and alterna-future Russian playboy Nikolai Dante – from some of the magazine’s most revered creators. The fourth wall in 2000AD has always been a little shaky thanks to editor Tharg the Mighty’s habit of addressing the reader directly. As well as the typically hard-bitten, mordantly witty main strips, the anniversary special contains various celebratory one-page goofs, including Dredd himself shutting down the mag’s birthday bash because he does not approve of the “seditious freak-out weirdo trashzine”. In a global comics market that can seem dominated by US publishers, the continued success of the uniquely eccentric 2000AD is a heartening counterpoint, and it remains an essential proving ground for new UK-based (and, increasingly, international) talent. Not bad for a weirdo trashzine.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Sorrowful Putto of Prague. Photograph: James Stafford/Sorrowful Snows PublishingIf four decades sounds like a long time for Judge Dredd to patrol Mega-City One, imagine being stuck in the same place for 400 years. Xavier AKA The Sorrowful Putto Of Prague may look like the sort of cherubic winged statue you expect to be peeing into a fountain but he is, in fact, an ancient soul, a wistful drinker and dreamer who has found himself protector of the great city of Prague for more than four centuries, almost by default. Like Hellboy, another stony demon-hunter who likes a smoke, Xavier battles dread supernatural threats by cleverly applying arcane knowledge or simply bashing their heads in. This atmospheric webcomic steeped in Czech history and folklore is, perhaps surprisingly, written by a Brit (James Stafford) collaborating with artists AJ Bernardo, Raluca Moldovan, Josel Nicolas and Lenka Šimečková. A hit in its adopted homeland, The Sorrowful Putto Of Prague is about to be collected and expanded into a Czech-language print edition but the English version is available to read, in full, on the Putto’s website, where you can also enjoy some suitably melancholy music written specifically for the strip by Roger O’Donnell of the Cure.