Bringing bright, beautiful finds home from your travels can be tricky (and many an object loses its charm somewhere between marketplace and baggage reclaim). But Tamsin and Duncan Flower have partnered vibrant north African weaves with vintage furniture and pale walls to create a home that works for family life – their son, seven, and daughter, two – but still keeps its well-travelled character. “Moroccan rugs fill the house,” Tamsin says. “They instantly change the mood of a room.”The house, in Dollis Hill, north-west London, needed a lot of work, including replacing a makeshift kitchen extension with a corrugated plastic roof. “I could live with everything else, but that had to go,” she says. A large roof-light and bifold doors now make the north-west-facing kitchen-diner as light as possible. No-nonsense Ikea kitchen units were finished with bespoke wooden worktops by a local carpenter, and slick handles from Franchi. The pair also reinstated fireplaces (ripped out in the 1960s) and sanded the floorboards. “When we bought the house, there were shagpile carpets in every room,” Tamsin says, “but the upside was that they had kept the boards well protected.”She has centred each room around vintage Moroccan rugs, which she first came across in the coastal city of Essaouira 12 years ago, where she met Duncan while working on a film, she as a costume assistant, he as a location manager. “I was invited to a party at an incredibly cool, creative riad decorated with beautiful mosaics, fabrics and art, and Duncan was staying there,” she says. “It was a very romantic place.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sanded floorboards and Moroccan rag rugs… Photograph: Birgitta Wolfgang Drejer/Sisters AgencyShe has been importing Moroccan rugs ever since: Boucherouite rag rugs in oranges and pinks, geometric Boujad weaves and monochrome Beni Ouarain rugs. “Motifs and techniques are passed down through families, so a rug can usually be traced to a particular village,” says Tamsin, who has since teamed up with her friend Emma Wilson, who owns the riad, to run beldirugs.com.The intense, Moorish colours animate quiet mid-century furniture by Eames, Ernest Race and Alfred Cox. It’s a period that has always appealed to Tamsin: “The pieces have such grace and poise, but never feel too serious.” And yet her home never feels “Moroccan-themed”: the rugs, along with holiday buys from markets all over Europe, are drawn together in an uncontrived way. “I could never decorate a house in one particular look,” she says. “It’s about keeping a sense of balance, with pieces that talk about the life you’ve led and the places that have stayed with you.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Birgitta Wolfgang Drejer/Sisters AgencyHouse rulesBest find A Guzzini-style floor lamp (it hangs over the leather sofa). I found it in a skip in Primrose Hill.Can’t resist Vintage ceramics. You can still find beautiful, cheap pieces in Belgian and French markets.Favourite spot Our bedroom: it’s light and peaceful and has a beautiful tree outside the window.Career highlight Dressing George Clooney for Gravity: like I was going to turn that one down.If I had an extra hour in the day… I’d get up early and rummage through skips. It’s amazing what people throw out.