I was born just months before women got the vote in America, in 1920. I’m 96 years old now. On Tuesday I was so excited to vote for Hillary Clinton. Just the idea that a woman was running for the highest position in the land overwhelmed me.When I cast my vote I had a good feeling about it – a very, very good feeling. I felt that my voice was being heard, and that I was finally able to vote for one of us. Yesterday I went to bed feeling really hopeful. Today I got up in the morning and I turned on the TV and I saw Donald Trump’s smiling face and I knew we’d lost. When I saw his face I recalled how I had felt in the beginning, when I heard he was running. I thought it was a joke.I thought Hillary would win. Everyone I talked to thought Hillary would win. It’s a mystery. I don’t know what happened. I really, really don’t.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I’ve always been a feminist – not realising exactly what a feminist was.’ Photograph: Arwa Mahdawi for the GuardianI feel disappointed and I feel really let down, actually: let down by the voters, let down by America. Even physically I feel let down. It’s a bad day. Hillary’s defeat feels almost personal. I just don’t feel like doing anything today. I’m not a happy camper. But there’s nothing we can do about it, except have another Hillary come on the horizon.I still feel very proud to be American, of course. But we have to see what Trump’s going to do with America. It’s scary. I have a feeling Hillary might run again but talking to several people, including my daughter, they say no. And of course everybody is giving me condolences because I was running around supporting Hillary as much as I could. I tried to get the Asian vote in my building with the help of my neighbour, Mr Chen. I sat in the building lobby with a placard of Hillary. I tried to voice my opinion when people said they weren’t going to vote. Hillary sent me a beautiful letter in last night’s mail thanking me. I think she saw me on the website iwaited96years.com. My eyes are bad so I couldn’t read it, of course, but I had someone read it for me.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I feel that a woman will eventually be president.’ Photograph: HandoutI’ve always been a feminist – not realising exactly what a feminist was, exactly, but knowing that I was one. I had to fight my way through a family of five boys. I was the only girl. I was born in Russia and my family emigrated to America when I was a child.I’ve always had to fight to progress; I grew up with that feeling, that you have to fight to progress. Whenever someone would say something bad about a woman, I didn’t let it pass. I wouldn’t let it pass. I taught my children to be feminists, to treat people equally, no matter if they were a man or a woman or black or white.Right now this is all very fresh. I have to actually adjust to the fact that Trump is president. I’m disappointed, but I don’t think Hillary’s loss has set back women’s rights. A lady president won’t happen in my lifetime, but I’m still hopeful.I certainly hope that my daughter, granddaughter and great granddaughters won’t give up. I feel that a woman will eventually be president. I feel it. I feel that my great-granddaughter could still be president one day. If Hillary’s just opened the door just a tiny, tiny bit, then someone’s going to go through it eventually.