This year’s Glastonbury, I assumed beforehand, would have little to distinguish it. If anything, it looked like it would be remarkable for being so unremarkable. After a run of a fair few years in which the festival hosted attention-grabbing, controversy-courting and genuinely exciting performers – respectively, the Rolling Stones, Kanye West and Dolly Parton – this year’s headliners were such an uninspired selection, they looked as if they had been chosen by an algorithm created by Q magazine.You don’t have to be a muso snob to feel less than excited about the prospect of standing in mud on a Friday night to watch Muse – AKA Queen without the sense of humour – let alone Coldplay, who have headlined Glastonbury so many times now they probably have a room on permanent hold at Babington House, the nearby Soho House-owned hotel. As for Adele, well. No one would ever doubt her talent, but it was hard to imagine how on earth a singer in a long black dress standing still would work on the Pyramid stage, a venue that lives and dies by spectacle, as Kanye West learned to his cost last year, and he at least moved around occasionally. The truth is, with both Rihanna and Beyoncé touring Britain, it seemed as though the most talked-about performances would be happening off-site.Coldplay headline Sunday at Glastonbury 2016 – review But I was wrong. You see, I had stupidly overlooked the main show in town and how it would affect the festival, for this year’s headliner was undoubtedly Brexit. There was something genuinely odd about being at a festival that was at least founded on principles such as generosity, a welcoming spirit and broadmindedness, while a referendum was won by voters who were persuaded by panic, prejudice, misinformation and outright lies, fed to them by politicians so blinded by their own personal ambition they didn’t see the fire with which they were playing. It was quite something watching the phone reception in our campsite dwindle then disappear on Friday morning as people woke up, reached for their mobiles and then lay in their sleeping bags for the next two hours, reading the news, instead of logging off to continue their weekend away in the Somerset meadows.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I didn’t encounter a single person who voted leave.’ Photograph: Stoyan Nenov/ReutersBy the time I finally got up to trudge to the showers, the only conversations I overheard were gloomy, weepy ones about Brexit. People talk about the London bubble with good reason, and a sizeable amount of that bubble makes up Glastonbury’s campers. But in truth, the area around the festival had voted to remain and, while a festival such as this does have a self-selecting audience, the sense of discombobulation was compounded by the fact that, for the whole weekend, I didn’t encounter a single person who voted leave. Even the three older stewards I spoke to with excellently thick West Country accents said that while they had “concerns about immigration”, these were far outweighed by their hatred for Nigel Farage and Boris Johnson. Never had Glastonbury felt more detached from the real world, but this time not in a cheering way.I hadn’t been to Glastonbury for seven years, and I’d been looking forward to coming back. The festival has always felt special to me, something more than the various identikit ones I’ve been to since around Britain, with their stalls of greasy food and Camden Market bongs. But as I hiked my way through the suitably grey and miserable morning rain on Friday, past the sludgy main stages and the beered-up, lads-on-the-lash crowds, I felt, quite frankly, pissed off. Just as I was beginning to realise I had badly underestimated Britain, thinking it was only in my other home country, the US, where so many voters could be persuaded by anti-intellectual political campaigns based on scapegoating and misdirected anger, I was starting to suspect I had overestimated Glastonbury. Yes, it was founded on hippy ideals. But given that it now hosts a restaurant that serves £20 lobster benedict for breakfast in one of its various VIP sections while everyone else has to pitch tents in the mud, it felt as if maybe it had been a victim of its own success – just as modern British politicians became so dazzled by money that they forgot about the country’s welfare state ideals, to everyone’s cost now.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hadley at Glastonbury: ‘What makes a festival feel special is not the acts but the experience.’ Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianBut, good Lord, home was going to be depressing enough; I might as well try to enjoy the escape while I could. So I marched up to what I remembered as being my favourite parts, up in the hills and away from the melee. Whereas Nigel Farage pitches a gin-sipping old duffer’s fantasy of Britain based on Spitfires and sovereignty, Glastonbury’s is like that of a whacked-out, dreamy hippy, with its recreation of bucolic bliss. So the area named Arcadia seemed a good place to start, but it turned out to be a muddy pitch filled with unhappy-looking people in windswept tents. “That fucker Boris,” was the first thing I heard as I walked in. Et in Arcadia ego, indeed. So I carried on up towards the Green Fields, just catching the end of Skepta, proving that, despite what too many people have intimated to the contrary in the past, Glastonbury is not just about tedious guitar rock. As I walked in, the sun finally broke through, illuminating the stalls where people were learning how to carve spoons and throw axes. By far the happiest people I’d seen so far at the festival were sitting in a stone circle being taught how to play the drums by a cheerful bunch of half-dressed men.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Did Brexit put a downer on Glastonbury? Reaction from festival-goersIt’s easy to mock hippy-lite posturing at festivals, particularly ones that cost almost £230 a ticket. Especially now, given that so many other festivals have adopted it and it has become as watered-down and meaningless as a so-called bohemian collection from River Island. But Glastonbury has a genuine connection to that milieu, that charmingly loopy, mystical flower-child mentality you still find in pockets of the West Country, and there is no doubt that the people at Glastonbury who provide this experience to campers are truly part of that world, as opposed to being middle-class metropolitan types who quit banking to become nutritionists and yoga coaches. Too few festivals give you a real sense of the location and its history, so you might as well be standing in any overcrowded tent anywhere, whether you’re in Scotland or Gloucestershire. Glastonbury and Port Eliot in Cornwall are the only ones I’ve been to that appreciate that what makes a festival feel special is not the acts but the experience. I had forgotten about that in all my whingeing about Coldplay.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sunset at the Healing Field. Photograph: Jacqueline Jones-Thomas/GuardianWitness I walked down towards the Healing Field and, as I sat on a stone-carved chair, eating a slice of freshly baked golden drizzle cake, looking out over the Somerset green hills while a pair of little girls were being taught how to make floral headdresses by an elderly woman from Frome, I felt a lot more positive about Glastonbury, and a little more about England. Despite its undoubted gentrification, thanks precisely to people exactly like me (middle-class Londoners who prefer prosecco to cider), Glastonbury is still uniquely special. As my colleague John Harris has been writing throughout the referendum, to really understand the country you need to get the hell out of London. To grasp the appeal of this festival, you have to make the effort to get out of the hideously overcrowded main area. By the evening, as I was watching Ronnie Spector sing Be My Baby with one of ZZ Top and his beard on guitar as the sun set behind them, Brexit felt blissfully, if briefly, far away.Some people vented their frustration about the referendum through the typically Glastonbury-ish medium of half-arsed but heartfelt art. From the Green Fields I walked towards Shangri-La, hoping to see the festival’s first women-only space (called, what else, Sisterhood), but I was cheerfully told that no one had turned up to open it that day and no, no one knew if anyone would. So instead, I went to a van selling grilled cheese sandwiches. “Fromage not Farrage [sic]” read the sign in the window and, suitably reassured, I bought one. I found a bench and ate it beneath a poster featuring an image of Boris Johnson alongside arguably factual phrases such as “Stupid Arse” and “Can Just Fuck Off”.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The anti-Ukip cheese truck. Photograph: Hadley Freeman for the GuardianBy now, it was mid-afternoon, people’s cheeks were pinking from the sun and the cider, and the mood was lifting. While I still overheard plenty of people talking about the referendum, there were at least as many usual Glastonbury conversations (people either laughing about how mashed they got the night before or shouting in their phones looking for their friends).Another thing Glastonbury has always done so well is to provide immersive experiences, which is not so easy to do on a giant farm filled with stinking portable loos. Perhaps it was because the headliners were all so drearily familiar, perhaps it was that many people felt in desperate need of escape from the news, but these more niche acts felt far more loved and oversubscribed than plenty of big names. The sweetly self-described “homo disco” NYC Downlow does this better than anyone. It is undoubtedly the most extraordinarily designed place at the festival, and that is quite an achievement, given that at Glastonbury you can stumble upon an enormous lagoon bar behind a waterfall in one of its smaller areas, there almost as an afterthought. Now designed to look like an apocalyptic New York City, it includes one building that resembles an old downtown meat factory with a gay club and bathhouse inside.I went for the first time on Thursday night, and it was so rammed it took about an hour to get in. Once I miraculously managed that, I found myself in a grimy gay club, the kind I used to go to 15 years ago in Vauxhall with friends and assumed had long disappeared. Yet here was one now, filled with drag queens and men with stick-on and real moustaches, and it was only when I looked at the floor and saw the mud and the wellies that I could believe I really was in a field in Somerset. On the Friday night, the only excited chat I heard around the festival was not about that night’s headliners Muse, but Hot Chip’s tribute to Prince at NYC Downlow. Rather sweetly, this, Glastonbury’s first LGBT dedicated space, designed specifically to celebrate otherness, is very much on its way to becoming one of its most beloved institutions.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jonny Woo on stage at NYC Downlow. Photograph: Gary Calton for the ObserverIt was tempting to lose faith with the country this weekend. It has long been easy to lose faith with festivals. But Glastonbury, as big and unwieldy and flawed as in many ways it might be, is still one of the best places to restore your faith in both. By Saturday night, I looked terrible but felt better. As the rain briefly cleared (again), I skipped Adele to watch an older but, to my mind, far more youthful group, New Order. As they finished with Temptation and Love Will Tear Us Apart, not even the foot of sticky mud could stop people leaping about ecstatically, if a little perilously. Then my colleagues told me Adele had been great, too, proving again that cynicism is pointless at Glastonbury.When I first read the news on Friday, I felt in such a funk that I thought maybe I should just leave. Who cared about a stupid music event when the country looked as though it was falling apart? But then, soothed by a bunch of Somerset hippies, I got over myself and I made a different choice: for the second time in 72 hours, I chose to remain. At least my option won out this time.