The Dumping Ground5pm, CBBCBased on Jacqueline Wilson’s bestseller, The Story Of Tracy Beaker was a mainstay of early 00s CBBC that tackled difficult issues with warmth and mischief. There have since been a handful of spinoffs, including this Bafta-winning series, now on its fourth run. Like the original, it focuses on the ups and downs of life in a children’s home, and features Nick Sharatt’s illustrations. Those raised on Beaker might deem it sacrilege, but it will engage and educate its target audience of six- to 12-year-olds. Hannah J DaviesPerfect Pianists at the BBC8pm, BBC4Pianist and broadcaster David Owen Norris trawls Auntie’s archives to present a quietly eccentric look at classic performances from famed ivory strokers. These include Vladimir Horowitz, in 1982, tucking in his little fingers as he plays (“What a sports scientist would make of it, I can’t imagine”); Myra Hess rolling out a lovely little Jesu, Joy Of Man’s Desiring in 1954; and, from 1973, Joy Of Sex-lookalike Radu Lupu (“on his trademark kitchen chair”) forgoing tie and tails for a tasty bit of Grieg. Ali CatterallShetland9pm, BBC1Jimmy Perez (Douglas Henshall) continues, ruggedly, to investigate. In this season finale, he is still trying to make sense of two murders – and get to the bottom of the many-layered cover-ups that link old school villain McCall, his advisor Sarwar and Phyllis Brennan. The case has stirred unpleasant memories for Tosh, and as she attempts to process the sexual assault she endured by seeking the advice of friends, Jimmy faces evidence that his relationship with Asha may also be tainted by corruption. John RobinsonLand Of Hope and Glory – British Country Life9pm, BBC2This series looks at modern rural life and its dwindling population through the prism of its magazine of record, Country Life. What purports to be an examination of tensions between city and country soon descends into an excuse to quietly mock the monocultural denizens of England’s green and pleasant plains, eccentric and genially oblivious to the privilege of their lives. Tonight, a local lovely poses for the magazine’s frontispiece, Country Life’s longstanding, genteel equivalent to Page 3. David StubbsMr Selfridge9pm, ITVDespite glossy aesthetics, the writers of ITV’s period-ish drama have long prioritised dry dialogue about stock levels over juicier plotlines. Sadly, this penultimate episode is no exception, with things only ramping up in the final five minutes. While the retail magnate is busy preparing anniversary celebrations, there’s trouble afoot at his other business. How long will it be before he gets wind of the chaos? (Clue: a bit too long). Meanwhile, Josie unwittingly forces the newly orphaned Grove children to suppress their grief. HJDThe Blacklist9pm, Sky LivingA very satisfying episode tonight, with poor Elizabeth, helpless in custody, about to be bumped off by the evil cabal. James Spader’s Red, however, doesn’t let a trifle like this ruffle his permanent air of unperturbed amusement. He summons the task force one by one and hatches a plot to foil the shadowy, insider villains, which involves both creating a false floor on a building and, in an a particularly wild flight of fantasy, the prospect of an American being prosecuted for war crimes in the Hague. DSComedy Playhouse: Broken Biscuits10.35pm, BBC1The second of the new Comedy Playhouse season is written by The Royle Family’s Craig Cash and Phil Mealey. Five seemingly disparate groups of people discuss their lives to camera, including Brenda and Roger, who run the “Brenroger” B&B, elderly couple Milton and Pearl, fixated with their smoke alarm, and brothers Martin and Tom. It’s Alan Bennett with more swearing and a decent cast (Timothy West, Alison Steadman), but ultimately not quite as touching, clever or as funny as it thinks it is. Ben ArnoldFilm choiceCaddyshack (Harold Ramis, 1980) 9pm, DaveTasteless and raucously funny National Lampoon-style attack on the golf club establishment: this is slam-it-up-the-fairway humour, with Chevy Chase as the resident pro, Rodney Dangerfield hilarious as an excruciatingly vulgar new member, and Bill Murray almost on a par as the loopy groundsman. Paul HowlettComing To America (John Landis, 1988) 1.20am, Channel 4Landis revisits the role-swap territory of Trading Places with some success, drawing a beaming comic performance from Eddie Murphy. He plays wealthy Prince Akeem of Zamunda, rebelling against king James Earl Jones’s plans for an arranged marriage by going incognito in New York with trusty manservant Arsenio Hall to find a bride who’s not only after his money. PHToday’s best live sportDavis Cup Tennis: Great Britain v Japan The opening day of the World Cup match from Birmingham. 1pm, BBC2World Championship Cycling Day three from the Lea Valley VeloPark in east London. 7pm, BBC2Championship Football: Middlesbrough v Wolverhampton Wanderers Can Boro keep up their promotion push? 7pm, Sky Sports 1Super League: Leeds Rhinos v Huddersfield Giants Rugby league from Headingley. 7.30pm, Sky Sports 2