My obituary was published when I was 24. It’s a complicated thing to be dead when you’re still very much alive and eager to make a name for yourself. It said I was dead on IMDB, a site that was new when I first died in 1999 – a time when people still believed everything on the internet was true. It was the marketing department that killed me. The folks at the now-defunct Artisan Pictures bought an odd little midnight offering at Sundance that year called The Blair Witch Project, about three film students who go into the woods to make a documentary about said witch and are never heard from again. I was the girl. The girl from The Blair Witch Project. The first line of my obituary.Being dead and alive at the same time has its advantages. I watched a significant time in my life unfurl without me. Who gets to do that? On a brutally hot July day, the 1984 Toyota Celica I bought with my temping pay when I moved to LA overheated (again), only this time it happened under a billboard with my face on it. I sat there, under my enormous face, waiting for the car to cool down, thinking: “Surely this will work out?” When I arrived home that day I did an interview that I’d surreptitiously arranged with my hometown paper, the Philadelphia Inquirer, and shared this story, laughing: “I’m like the poorest new famous person in America!”Bad omens: Blair Witch and the trouble with the horror franchise revival As soon as it ran, I got a call. “You can’t say things like that,” said the marketing department.“But it’s true!” I said.“We need you not to say things like that.”I wanted to say, “Well, are you sending me money?” But I was a 24-year-old actor so I said sorry. The next week I received a fruit basket. The crap kind with pears and water crackers and mostly packaging.As ticket sales began to level off and there was a boost to be gained from the late surprise of: JK! They’re alive! Joshua [Leonard], Mike [Williams] and I were allowed a resurrection. When the time came for us to finally show our faces, the number one question people asked was: “Were you really scared?” If we were not really dead, it was important that we were really scared. People love the safety of horror movies, the controlled anxiety. But this one was supposed to be different. This one was supposed to be real. Williams, Leonard and I did such a convincing job with our acting, improvising, and shooting that the movie went on to make about $250m at the box office – from a budget of around $75,000.Making the movie was (except for the wet days) a joy. It was as scrappy and punk rock an affair as movie-making could be. The producers skulked about in camouflage with boom boxes blasting children’s voices, they bound blood and teeth in twigs, hung stickmen, dropped notes with the next essential conflict they wanted from us in a milk crate marked with a bicycle flag so we could find it. We went to Denny’s on Halloween after we wrapped and ate in the company of pirates and cats and sexy witches – the only witches seen during the production. The next year, people were dressed as us.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A promotional ‘missing’ poster used to coincide with the US release of The Blair Witch Project in 1999. Photograph: William Thomas Cain/Getty ImagesIt was the collaborative spirit of production that made my death feel especially violent. It’s a strange thing to get no credit where credit is deeply due. By strange I mean shitty. We were supposed to be really scared, so we weren’t actors (all of us are formally trained). We improvised all dialogue from an outline, but we weren’t writers. We shot it and independently provided the impetus for many of the scenes you see in the film, but we were not directors. While this work became record-breakingly profitable, what we were was dead.The upside of dying early is an early rebirth. I scrapped my LA life in 2007 and moved to a small town in the Sierra Nevada foothills, where people know exactly where they know me from. I was stagnating and I wanted to grow. Being literal-minded, I grew medical marijuana while I figured out what came next. What came next was a return to writing and my memoir of a year growing weed, Growgirl, came out in 2012. Last year I co-created an independent pilot called The High Country, a comedy about the underworld of cannabis growing in northern California, (which is way more interesting than Hollywood). I had remade myself. So imagine my surprise when I heard about this new Blair Witch. Dead again, after all.On learning of the sequel, I did what any sensible woman would do and drank very nice bourbon in a very nice bathtub while bawling my eyes out. Nothing I do will ever surpass what I did at 24. My name and face are for ever going to be someone else’s intellectual property. My snot-flooded portrait was back. It’s all anyone wanted to talk to me about. I bawled more. Refilled the bath. Stared at the wall.Blair Witch review – found-footage sequel brings horror of deja-vu Then Lionsgate called. The company that originally bought The Blair Witch Project was purchased by Lionsgate and they’re the ones behind this new sequel. They asked what they could do to show me how much they appreciated my work in the original. They made sure my last name wasn’t used anywhere. In their press materials, their protagonist goes in search of his “sister” but they don’t use my name. For all the talk of Hollywood being populated with jerks and sharks, these guys were actually being considerate and were genuinely concerned that this would not be any more disruptive to my life than was inevitable.Sure, it helps them that I can say with total sincerity that I hope you’ll go see this movie. It helps me too. It feels good to be proud of the work I did back then. It feels good to see it endure. It feels good to be acknowledged for my role in something that became such an indelible part of our culture. The Lionsgate folks made it seem so easy, because doing the right thing usually is. The wrong thing announces itself with an anxious clench. The right thing, the kind thing, has big soft life in it.I can’t wait to watch those new Blair Witch kids die this weekend. I hope they’re up for a lively ride.