A few years ago now (actually longer than I’d like to admit!), I was just starting high school. I was so excited, having always been a very happy geek who loved to learn and read, and was overjoyed when I was put in the same class as my best friend. Yeah, I thought, high school is going to be awesome - like the books I read but actually real!Which fictional school do you belong in? - quiz It wasn’t. I’ve always had this mysterious neurological condition that has relapsed numerous times over my life. But when I started high school, it relapsed worse than ever. And I ended up in a wheelchair, in pain, and unable to go to school. I don’t think I was ever depressed, but I definitely felt like my whole life - everything I’d ever wanted - was slipping away from me, out of reach…I’d always loved books and fantasy (reading Harry Potter aged seven made me think I was a witch: alas, I may have been wrong…), but after that they became everything to me - a way to just escape it all. And this is why I turned to fantasy - why I continue to read and love fantasy. Because nothing is more different than my world, than me, than an awesome world with magic and an awesome butt-kicking protagonist.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Me and Lucy Saxon - I’m a half-hearted Deathly Hallows, she’s an amazing Draco Malfoy - at YALC 2015! Photograph: Megan QuibellI know lots of people like contemporary books - one of my best blogging friends has been trying (and failing - sorry!) to get me to read more contemps for years. But, you see, the thing is, I live in the real world. I look out the window and see cars, people walking to college, dogs and cats – and often rain, because c’mon, this is England. I may not know everything about our world, but I do know it – I do live in it.And when I read, I just… I don’t want to read about it! I know the stresses of being a teenager in this world, of feeling shy and awkward and perhaps a little weird. I know how much exams suck and how utterly embarrassing it is when you say something stupid in front of a lot of people. I know what it’s like to crush hard on someone and what it’s like to hate everything in this world, to want to change it all.Fantasy… fantasy is the ultimate escape. It is a way of living a life you could never even have imagined, a way to be so much more than this world can allow. How else can you be a faerie queen one day and a witch the next? How else can you fly, shoot flames from your hands and turn people into toads? How else can you be a superhero or a demigod or have a dragon (by the way, if anyone can answer that last question for me, I’ll love ya forever - I want a dragon so badly)?   Toothless - my fantasy pet. Photograph: c.20thC.Fox/Everett/REXFantasy rules all because it is all - it is anything and everything you can imagine. There are literally no limits. Sure, I know people like real life books because they teach us all about real life issues. And to this I say: have you ever read a fantasy book? Hidden beneath the magic, there are always real life issues. Whether it’s the difficulties of being gay in rather a homophobic situation, such as in Cassandra Clare’s The Mortal Instruments series, or dealing with racism and prejudices, like in The Summoner series by Taran Matharu. Just because the situation is fantastical and the world includes dragons doesn’t mean that the issues are suddenly foreign. They’re the same problems reimagined, sometimes heightened - but always always there.Reading has, over the years, kept me sane. It gave me my blog, all my chances here and some brilliant friends. But fantasy… it has given me my imagination, it has calmed me down when I’m scared or stressed out or nervous and it has given me the ability to look out my window at the cars and rain and people and think, What if… And everyone, everywhere should be able to do that. Like I said before, there are no limits - none but your imagination. And that… that is why I love fantasy so very, very much.Women in fantasy – the children's books podcast But I’ve talked enough. It’s time to leave you with the ultimate wisdom from the most amazing teacher I’ve ever had, Professor Albus Dumbledore:“Of course it is happening inside your head, Harry, but why on earth should that mean that it is not real?”   The amazing Albus Dumbledore - best teacher ever. Photograph: Warner Bros PicturesFantasy can be real and it can make real life much much easier. You only have to sit down, open your book and believe.Why do you love the fantasy books genre? Please share your reasons by email childrens.books@theguardian.com or on Twitter @GdnChildrensBks and we’ll add them to this blog!Come and join us (@GdnChildrensBks) live on Twitter on Sunday 28 Feb 5-6pm using #gdnteenfantasy when we’ll be discussing all things fantasy with Samantha Shannon @say_shannon, Alwyn Hamilton @AlwynFJH, Zoe Marriott @ZMarriott, Lucy Saxon @Lucy_Saxon, Sally Green @Sa11eGreen, Taran Matharu @TaranMatharu1 and Victoria Aveyard @VictoriaAveyard.