Action epic Mad Max: Fury Road and Oscar-tipped drama Room have been named the best-reviewed films of 2015 by the critical aggregator site Rotten Tomatoes.Golden Globes 2016: 10 things we learned George Miller’s long-awaited return to the dusty dystopian Aussie badlands, which also won the prize for best-reviewed science-fiction movie, was named the top film on wide release after scoring a 97% “fresh” rating on the site. Room, Lenny Abrahamson’s drama about a mother and son living in extreme circumstances , was named the best-reviewed movie on limited release, after scoring 98% from critics. Its star, Brie Larson, picked up the best actress in a drama prize at the Golden Globes on 10 January.Pixar’s Inside Out and the period tale Brooklyn, starring Saoirse Ronan, also scored 98%. Rotten Tomatoes noted that fewer critics had posted reviews for these film, and therefore placed them lower in the rankings for its annual Golden Tomato awards than Fury Road according to an “adjusted” measurement.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The cast of Mad Max: Fury Road talk to Catherine ShoardCannes prize-winner Timbuktu got an impressive 99%, but also dropped down on the list due to fewer reviews; it took the best foreign language movie garland. Abderrahmane Sissako’s film about life under Islamist occupation on the edge of the Sahara desert in Mali was submitted for last year’s Oscars.Golden Globes 2016: just rewards for The Revenant – and an incredible coup for The Martian Fury Road, the first new Mad Max movie since Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome, in 1985, is widely expected to challenge at the Oscars in February, although mostly in technical categories. The film’s surest bet of taking home one of the major prizes appears to be in the best film category, where it is expected to be nominated. Miller’s movie went home empty-handed at the Golden Globes, which does not honour technical accomplishments, despite nods for best drama film and best director. Inside Out was named the best-reviewed animated film of 2015. Pixar’s colourful tale of turmoil in the mind of a troubled 12-year-old girl is also expected to challenge for the equivalent Oscar.It Follows (with a 97% rating on Rotten Tomatoes) got best horror movie, while Brooklyn was named the site’s best drama and Amy (96%) got best documentary. Carol (94%) was named best-reviewed romance, while Mission: Impossible Rogue Nation (93%) was the site’s best-reviewed action movie.