According to the satirist TC Boyle, writing and nature saved his life. “I was the hippie’s hippie and immoral to boot, and never gave a thought about putting a needle in my arm,” the 67-year-old says of his wild years in New York, during the late 60s and early 70s.“I was a youth, I didn’t care, I was experimenting with everything in life. I was angry and disturbed and banging my head against the wall to find out what it’s all about. I turned 25, realized what I could do and wanted to do, and I pursued it fanatically ever since.” The Terranauts by TC Boyle review – ‘an ark to save humanity’ What he ended up pursuing was writing. Boyle is now one of America’s most prolific writers, one the Paris Review once referred to as “the maximalist novelist”. The author of enduring Americana like The Harder They Come and The Tortilla Curtain lives up to this reputation in conversation. In person he’s energetic and flamboyant, with a penchant for driving yet meandering conversation. The Terranauts, his 26th book, fictionalizes a notable 90s Arizona experiment. Eight scientists, coined the Terranauts, lived under glass in E2, a model of a possible off-Earth colony. Their closed, three-acre compound encompassed five biomes – rainforest, savanna, desert, ocean and marsh – to sustain them over two years. Following on from the likes of A Friend of the Earth and Tooth and Claw, The Terranauts addresses environmental challenges. Sitting in his Frank Lloyd Wright-designed home in Montecito in southern California, he’s fired up about the state of the nation.He is not exactly optimistic about the future. “I think it’s going to turn out like The Road within 50 years. We’ll eat everything left to eat and then we’ll eat each other,” he says. He takes a spoonful of his lunchtime cereal. “War and climate change and some microbe will decimate us and we’ll go back to The Road or The Road Warrior or some scenario like this and maybe build another civilization again. Where I’m living and talking to you from, the capitalist system is built on infinite product and infinite consumers and it’s a finite world.”Donald Trump, Boyle says, is the supreme symbol of everything wrong with the US. “This monster clown in the orange makeup has somehow embarrassed and humiliated America. He will soon disappear back into reality TV where he belongs.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   TC Boyle at his home in Montecito. Photograph: Ricardo DeAratanha/LA Times via Getty ImagesBoyle believes Trump reflects the sad state of the Republican party. “Let’s not forget the great President Bush who actually paid scientists to give us false science on climate change. We could have been 10 years ahead of the loop.” America has amnesia about George W Bush, Boyle adds. “The worst American president by far. He destroyed the world, he gave us the recession, he put us a trillion dollars in debt, he created Isis. It’s like we’re living in Orwell’s 1984, actual history and actual facts don’t matter in the slightest bit.”The wild west of my dreams: California’s Sequoia national forest Boyle says that being among nature, especially the sequoias, is essential for him to write. “Listening to a creek, observing the sky and feeling the pulse of something greater than our own little ego-obsessed daily lives. It is so vitally important for us animals to be a part of the larger ecosphere, the one we live in. Rather than simply always be attached to our mechanical gadgets and sitting indoors in an artificial environment.” It’s like we’re living in Orwell’s 1984, actual history and actual facts don’t matter in the slightest bit. The Terranauts has a connection with The Inner Circle, his novel about controversial Indiana sexologist Alfred Kinsey, and Drop City, his Alaskan commune satire. “I’m quite fascinated by this idea of a small community, especially of a guru telling you what to do and how that might sort itself out. I like to say that it’s a damn good thing we’ve created virtual reality because the actual reality is pretty well gone.”For his part, Boyle could never live on a commune unless he was running the show. “I like to control what I’m doing as best I can, in this chaotic world. Such a situation would never work for me. Unless I were the dictator of the place, and I would never want to have that role.”Despite his large output, Boyle still has plenty of ideas. His publisher has accepted another collection of short stories, called The Loopbox. His favorite, Why Are We Not Managed?, about the new CRISPR technology, will run soon in The New Yorker. He’s still got a sense of urgency about his work and quotes Philip Roth’s “I’m like a doctor and it’s an emergency room. And I’m the emergency” line, laughing: “I love that quote, absolutely love it. And I would subscribe to that as a way of talking about the urgency and the need to create art.”