The People v OJ Simpson: American Crime Story9pm, BBC2Episode two of Glee man Ryan Murphy’s juiced-up recreation of the already fairly sensational story of OJ Simpson’s trial two decades ago. With murder charges finally filed, Simpson (Cuba Gooding Jr) goes on the run, holding a gun to his own head while linebacker buddy Al Cowlings (Malcolm-Jamal Warner) negotiates LA freeways in a Ford Bronco. It’s the chase that was watched live by 95 million viewers in the US, intercut with behind-the-scenes politicking. Surprisingly gripping. Graeme VirtueGirls10.45pm, Sky AtlanticFive seasons in, Lena Dunham’s sitcom is less zeitgeisty upstart than comic elder statesman, though as last season’s revelation about Hannah’s father proved, it still has the capacity to jolt. This opener sees Marnie prepare for her wedding to Desi, while a disconsolate Ray watches on. It’s a rare opportunity for all the eponymous Girls to appear in the same place, as Shoshanna returns from Japan and Hannah rocks up with boyfriend Fran in tow. Gwilym MumfordFresh Meat10pm, Channel 4It has been more than four years since the gang enrolled at Manchester Medlock University, and with graduation looming it’s almost time for the student sitcom’s japes and dramas to come to an end. As with their other hit series, Peep Show, Jesse Armstrong and Sam Bain seem determined not to let this one bow out quietly, though: the fourth and final series kicks off with Vod trying out a risky moneymaking scheme and resident rah JP getting a lesson in nepotism from older brother Tomothy. Hannah Jane DaviesMoving On2.15pm, BBC1Jimmy McGovern’s Moving On returns for a seventh series, continuing all week and kicking off with Taxi for Linda. Julie Hesmondhalgh is the titular Linda, handling the radios at the nowt-more-northern cab firm Kwiker Kabs. John Thomson is her sadsack boss Frank, in love with her but unable to explain his feelings. When wideboy Terry (Shane Richie) turns up and sweeps Linda off her feet, Frank is devastated, but soon discovers Terry has ulterior motives. Well-meaning but wafer-thin daytime fare. Ben ArnoldRoyal Navy School9pm, Channel 4As we were tipped off, right from the beginning of this cracking little series, some of these HMS Raleigh recruits, for whatever reason, aren’t going to make it. Last week, Dackombe had to make a choice between staying with his pregnant girlfriend or sailing off to sea. This week, 17-year-old Dunbar is hauled before the commander after taking a prank too far. Fortunately, the Royal Navy no longer deals with insubordination via the cat o’nine tails – but is Dunbar’s future in the balance? Ali CatterallThe Renaissance Unchained9pm, BBC4Second instalment of Waldemar Januszczak’s engaging and gently revisionist retelling of the Renaissance. This episode takes issue with the conventional wisdom that seeks to portray the artistic flowering as a manifestation of a new age of secular, rational enlightenment. As Januszczak demonstrates, this is largely wishful thinking. Many of the period’s greatest glories, by Giotto, Michelangelo and others, were depictions of the divine, and however lurid they may have been, they were essentially reverent. Andrew MuellerGrace Dent on Romance9pm, WSurveying the world of Tinder and elaborate flashmob proposals, Grace Dent has reached a bleak conclusion: “Technology is killing romance.” The case seems to be closed when Dent and her partner upload their details to a dating site to discover they’re a zero percent match. Of course things aren’t really that simple, as Dent discovers when she investigates new social mores around finding a partner. Entertaining, if unnerving, particularly when Dent meets a computer expert who profiles her via information she has shared online. Jonathan WrightFilm choiceThis Is 40 (Judd Apatow, 2012) 9pm, Film4Apatow’s sort-of-sequel picks up on the story of Pete and Debbie (Paul Rudd and Leslie Mann), a secondary couple in Knocked Up, now nearing the big 4-0. Endless problems are heaping stress on their relationship: struggling businesses; trouble with their dads (Albert Brooks, John Lithgow) and with their eldest daughter, who is being bullied on Facebook. It’s perceptive and, yes, pretty funny. Paul HowlettThe Jerk (Carl Reiner, 1979) 1.05am, ITV4Steve Martin’s first starring role. He also wrote the script, a lively satire on a poor boy making it rich, then poor again. His Navin Johnson grows up on a plantation and, shocked to learn he is the adopted son of his black parents, sets off to make it in the world. Paul HowlettToday’s best live sportATP Tennis: Dubai Tennis Championships First round of the event. 10am, Sky Sports 3FA Cup Football: Shrewsbury Town v Man Utd The first competitive meeting between the clubs. 7.15pm, BT Sport 2League One Football: Southend United v Burton Albion Two promotion-chasing sides face off at Roots Hall. 7.30pm, Sky Sports 1, 5Test Cricket: New Zealand v Australia Fourth day of the second Test. 9.30pm, Sky Sports 2