Maverick on SandraWhat were you hoping for?Not having been on a date for 18 years, I just wanted not to make a fool of myself.First impressions?Gorgeous. I was so nervous.What did you talk about?Family, friends, politics, art, travel. I had a brief glimpse into an interesting life lived.Any awkward moments?No, Sandra made me relaxed.Good table manners?Excellent – a pleasure to share a good meal with.Best thing about Sandra?Her charm, wit, honesty, her fantastic, mysterious eyes and her smile.Would you introduce her to your friends? Only if she wanted that.Describe Sandra in three wordsPassionate, eccentric and full of love.What do you think she made of you?She thinks I’m the oddest man she’s ever met (which I like).Did you go on somewhere?I walked her to the bus stop so she could get back to her houseboat.And... did you kiss?On the cheek. It was nice.If you could change one thing about the evening, what would it be?Nothing. It was what it was, and what it was was great.Marks out of 10?10.Would you meet again?We talked about going to see Anomalisa but not calling it a date. I suspect I’m not quite what Sandra is looking for, and that’s cool. If she becomes a friend, I can’t ask for more.Sandra on MaverickWhat were you hoping for?Nice food and a spark.First impressions?Big, friendly Stavros with a perm, a yellow suede jacket and a moustache.What did you talk about?Gambling, documentaries, our children, canals, moustaches.Any awkward moments?He took a bite out of the sugar decoration on my cocktail, but it wasn’t really awkward.Good table manners?Excellent.Best thing about Maverick?His bouncy hair and personality.Would you introduce him to your friends?Yes, he’d get on with anyone.Describe Maverick in three wordsEccentric, talkative, intelligent.What do you think he made of you?Quirky, intelligent, beautiful, nice, a good mum (his words!).Did you go on somewhere?He walked me to my bus stop.Blind date: ‘I could have gone easier on the booze’ And...did you kiss?It was a great evening, but there was the walrus moustache…If you could change one thing about the evening, what would it be?Nothing. Or maybe I should have braved the moustache?Marks out of 10?9.Would you meet again?I hope so, but just as friends.• Maverick and Sandra ate at Galley, London N1.Fancy a blind date? Email blind.date@theguardian.com. For a free three-day trial of Soulmates, go to soulmates.theguardian.com.