Thursday 16 JuneThe overnight appearance of brightly coloured “Store Closing” and “Everything Must Go” signs has sent the shoppers of Tunbridge Wells into a frenzy. I’ve been allocated the job of keeping order in the bedding department but it’s proving impracticable. Pillowcases are ripped from their packaging, examined and then discarded in crumpled heaps. Duvet covers are perused and then dumped among piles of cushions.“Excuse me. Do you have these in a white double, fitted?” asks a customer, pointing at a grey, king-sized, flat sheet.“No, I’m afraid that’s all we have,” I say, attempting a friendly smile, which I realise probably looks more like a grimace.“Oh. Are you sure? There’s none out back?”Sir Philip Green's reputation ripped apart in damning report on BHS demise (For a second I wonder whether or not to explain that we keep our stock in the bowels of the building, which can be reached only when our ancient and decrepit elevators are working.)“I’m afraid not, no. The storeroom is practically empty. Sorry,” I reply, trying to soften the grimace. And failing.In the 30 seconds that it has taken me to disappoint her, someone has scattered a dozen garish floral-print bedding sets. I return them to their plastic stand, where they remain for two minutes before being ransacked once again.It’s officially the beginning of the end of BHS, and it’s not a pretty sight.Friday 17 JuneThe store is much busier than it was a few months go, but the initial buzz that followed BHS falling into administration in April has died down. It’s possible that shoppers have realised that, regardless of the signs hanging from the ceiling and the posters in the windows, everything still costs exactly what it did just under a month ago.I spend a mind-numbingly dull shift folding towels to help maintain the illusion that the place is still a fully functioning department store, rather than a shambolic jumble sale. While there appears to be an abundance of goods, many of our popular lines are almost sold out and the gaps are filled with items of dubious appeal that have been languishing unsold elsewhere in the building for months or even years. Damaged items have started appearing on the shelves, as well as other interesting storeroom discoveries, such as toilet brushes without brushes, handles or lids. These have not proved a big seller.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The vultures have been out in force ... nothing left to sell at a north London store. Photograph: Bryan RobertsI’m able to visit the stockroom, one of the malfunctioning lifts having been fixed. There are bits and pieces of kitchenware and numerous bath mats, but mostly empty shelves and stacks of promotional signs, announcing reductions of progressively higher percentages. I wonder what we’ll have left to sell by the time we finally break out the “80% off” ones.Saturday 18 JuneI am one of the few members of staff not required to work weekend shifts. However, I message a friend and colleague in the evening, curious to know whether there will be anything left for me to do when I return on Monday. She replies that the vultures, as she calls the hordes who have flocked to the store since everything went belly up, have once again been out in force and that the bedding department has been picked clean.She also informs me that a friend will be going on maternity leave at the end of the week. A wave of sadness sweeps over me, realising that what should have been the start of a temporary absence of 10 to 12 months is now to be a final farewell. With a heavy heart, I spend the rest of the evening online, shopping for a leaving gift and card.Sunday 19 JuneI begin to contemplate my uncertain future and wonder whether the exceptionally disagreeable fellow that I dealt with eight years ago at the jobcentre still works there and how many hoops you have to jump through these days to get jobseeker’s allowance. My colleagues and I have had to learn to live with months of constant gnawing uncertainty. First we were assured that myriad “white knight” bidders were eager to save our jobs. As the weeks passed and deadlines were moved back again and again, it began to seem less and less likely. Throughout this process, it almost felt like a conscious effort was being made to keep us shopfloor workers out of the loop. I started to suspect that our fate had been decided and the constant hints that a buyer may have been found were nothing more than a charade designed to keep our spirits up. When we were eventually told that no such saviour had been found, there was, in some ways, a sense of relief. At least we could start to formulate plans.Monday 20 JuneMy mood is not improved by an article claiming that BHS’s former owner Philip Green has just taken delivery of a £46m private jet while he awaits his new £100m superyacht. I try to remind myself that money doesn’t buy you happiness (although his millions would certainly take the sting out of being on the brink of joblessness).An excited manager informs me that we’ve taken delivery of more stock. However, these three pallets (a fraction of our old daily deliveries) make little impression on the dwindling homeware department. A large wall that was once home to storage jars, tea towels and oven gloves is now taken up with rows of oversized kitchen rolls from the small food store that we were once promised would help turn our fortunes around.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘My mood isn’t improved as I read that Philip Green has taken delivery of a £46m private jet’ ... Green at a fashion show. Photograph: David M Benett/Getty Images for TopshopI spend part of the afternoon working alongside the visual merchandiser, a woman in her mid-20s who was once charged with making sure the products were displayed in the most attractive way possible. During the early stages of administration, while she was still doing her utmost to keep the store at its best, I dubbed her “the turd polisher”. Since liquidation was announced, her meticulous approach has become impossible to maintain.I ask if it’s OK to mix some muted pastel bedding sets with psychedelic ones, knowing she would have once considered this a heinous crime. “Yeah, just chuck it anywhere,” she replies with a shrug.Somehow her resignation is at once hilarious and heartbreaking.Tuesday 21 JuneThe question I keep hearing is: “So when are you actually closing?” Mostly it’s asked by savvy shoppers hoping to work out when we’ll be making all the serious reductions. A few people, however, seem genuinely bothered by the prospect of losing a store they have been visiting their entire lives. Unfortunately I have no answer for them. We’ve simply been told that our services will be required for as long as the store remains open.As we are leaving at the end of our shift, we are handed a letter from the administrators, dated 14 June (news really does travel slowly down the chain of command) telling us that they “envisage that the store will cease trading at some time in the next 12 weeks”.As if that uncertainty wasn’t bad enough, an article has appeared online claiming that there’s a chance that up to 80 stores might still be “saved” by Mike Ashley of Sports Direct fame/infamy. God help us all if that turns out to be true. I can’t help but wonder why BHS seems to be so irresistible to all these overfed, self-serving clowns. First Green, then Dominic Chappell and now, perhaps, this rambling bullyboy? What kind of terrible crimes could BHS staff have committed in their previous lives to deserve that?Wednesday 22 JuneThere are moments, towards the end of the afternoon, when you would be forgiven for thinking the store had already closed down. There’s barely a customer, and staff members stand around making chitchat. No one seems in the slightest bit interested in keeping this dying show on the road today. If there were an equivalent of Dignitas for department stores, I think we would have all been prepared to make the call today.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I can’t help but wonder why BHS seems so irresistible to all these overfed, self-serving clowns’ ... Dominic Chappell being questioned by MPs. Photograph:PA WireThursday 23 JuneStaff are wilting in the heat. More stock has been delivered: microfleece throws, which arrive already marked down at 50%. Supplies of our most popular all-season items, such as pillows, towels and bed sheets remain unreplenished. A new sign has appeared in the shop’s window declaring “new stock in store”. Presumably this is an attempt to entice back those people who visited earlier in the week and weren’t tempted by the brushless toilet brushes.On the bright side, nothing more has been heard regarding Mike Ashley’s attempt to “save” us.Friday 24 JuneIt’s the day of the EU referendum result. No one discusses it and I have long since learned not to engage in political conversations at BHS. It seems that this should be a time for celebrating the friendships we’ve formed and remembering the good times, rather than highlighting our differences.Monday 27 JuneIn the evening, many staff attend a recruitment event arranged by Sainsbury’s. The evening turns out to be an uniformative Power Point presentation with uninspiring talks from managers, culminating in us being handed a piece of paper with the url for the Sainsbury’s jobs website.Tuesday 28 JuneThere has still been no official word on when the store is shutting down. The homeware department now has enough beach towels to cover a medium-sized coastal resort, but little else. A few bags of cushions arrive. In a corner of the basement, I discover a stack of posters. On a black background in a bold white font are single numbers, counting down from 9 to 2. Next to those is a pile of signs that read “Last Day Today!”There’s an overwhelmingly depressing atmosphere. Those colleagues who have reasoned that their redundancy pay won’t be worth hanging around for have left already. The general consensus among the staff is that the store will be closed by the end of July. It’s going to be a long month.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The homeware department now has enough beach towels to cover a medium-size coastal resort.’ Photograph: AlamyWednesday 29 JuneEverything in the lighting department is now for sale at 50% of its actual original value. I spend four hours alone in the menswear department, unpacking boxes of garish shorts and placing them on hangers. It is a new low point.Since the company collapsed, the administrators have cut day-to-day running costs by, among other things, no longer paying the royalty fees required to play music over the shop speakers. The deafening silence somehow makes what is already a fairly depressing atmosphere considerably worse. It was previously possible to gauge, to some extent, the financial health of BHS through the music that was played in its stores. When I first started in late 2007, it was a mix of contemporary chart stuff along with golden oldies. Shortly before the first wave of rumours began circulating that Green was looking to offload the company, the playlist switched to almost entirely forgotten 80s pop songs (Howard Jones, anyone?). This continued until Chappell took over. The big-name chart songs returned to the playlist for a while, only to be replaced shortly before we went into administration with amateurish atrocities performed by people who I would imagine describe themselves as “semi-professional musicians”.Now, in the silence, I listen to customers moan that they can’t find anything they want to buy or that everything’s overpriced, while in the same breath saying how sad they are that we’re closing down.Thursday 30 JuneHaving been interviewed for a job at the new Wilko store that is due to open practically on BHS’s doorstep next month, I am told, by a slightly dishevelled old man with a frayed tie, that they will not be offering me the post as I didn’t provide sufficiently detailed or enthusiastic answers to such inquiries as: “Tell me about a time you really went above and beyond the call of duty to offer excellent customer service.”Friday 1 JulyI’m increasingly finding myself with nothing to do in the afternoon. At a loose end, I volunteer to help the food store manager, on the grounds that his is the only department receiving stock on a daily basis. I ask him how long it will be until the shelves are empty and he replies that they almost certainly never will be. Green’s BHS Food project has been far from a great success. There are, I’m told, a great many items throughout the store that have been on the shelves ever since it opened, shortly after Chappell’s motley crew took over at the helm of the sinking ship.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Shopping at the BHS Kensington branch in 1978. Photograph: Evening Standard/Hulton Archive/Getty ImagesOur branch is next to a Marks & Spencer, with both a Tesco Metro and a Poundland a minute away. Quite why anyone ever believed that people would abandon those to shop a limited range of budget food in what was once the bathroom accessories section of BHS is anyone’s guess.I recall the evening just over a year ago when we were required to attend a presentation that served both as an introduction to Chappell’s Retail Acquisitions company and a reassurance that, despite BHS having just been sold for £1, these new food stores would ensure a bright future. I never could quite work out if the people making the speeches believed what they were saying any more than I did.Monday 4 JulyOnly today has the chaos really hit with full impact. It feels like someone took the whole place apart and then made a half-arsed attempt to reassemble it from memory before giving up entirely. The bathroom accessories section has been filled with women’s shoes. The second floor, where the women’s shoes would normally be, has a lone pair of mannequin legs, pallets loaded with unused shelves and a magazine stand – it is to become a giant salesroom for all the fittings that could feasibly find a buyer.To add to the already slightly surreal spectacle, the store manager is in jeans and T-shirt, prying fixtures off the wall with a crowbar.Once home, I watch Chappell’s interview on Newsnight, in which he claims that the £2.6m he pocketed while driving BHS into the dirt was a “drip [sic] in the ocean” in terms of what was needed to turn the company around. By my reckoning, it’s a “drip” that would take a shopfloor worker, on a full-time contract, approximately 160 years to earn, if they were willing to put in overtime. He also says that the impending unemployment of 11,000 staff is playing heavy on his mind. My heart bleeds for him.Wednesday 6 JulyWord comes down from High Command that, contrary to everything that’s been said and done so far, under no circumstances should the contents of the first floor be moved to the ground floor. Word among the staff is that someone may have suddenly remembered that the restaurant up there is reliant on customers being in the vicinity. The upshot is that the store is now still trading over two floors, with randomly placed women’s wear in the homeware department.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It’s hard to walk away from this experience with anything other than a total distrust of big business’ ... Philip Green giving evidence to the Commons business select committee. Photograph: AFP/Getty ImagesThursday 7 JulyThe arrival of more stock is greeted by groans from staff. Finding the motivation to unbox it isn’t easy. It’s been a little over a month since we learned that we would all be out of a job, but we’re forced to soldier on at minimum wage to sort out the mess left behind by the greed of others. The only people smiling are those due to start new jobs at Wilko next week.Wednesday 20 JulyMorale among the staff has reached an all-time low, as we toil through the heatwave. A display wall, now devoid of product and shelving, leads me to reminisce about the day last summer when I was asked to abandon my normal duties and assist a good friend of mine in hanging the rolls of brick-patterned wallpaper that now cover it. Neither of us had hung wallpaper in our lives, and the project soon descended into a messy farce. She and I ended up laughing so hard that I was almost sick. We got that wallpaper up though, and actually did a very fine job of it. There’s never been a shortage of laughter among the staff, and I’ve worked alongside some great people I otherwise would never have met. It’s those memories I’ll be taking with me when they finally lock the doors.Boredom, scavenging and stifling heat: the final days of BHS Monday 25 JulyThe publication today of a scathing report into the collapse of the company by a Commons select committee doesn’t do much to raise anyone’s spirits. Sadly, a disapproving tut at those whose greed has caused our predicament does nothing to remedy the problems we all face. For those of us still working in the stores, the recent announcement that all BHS branches will cease trading by 20 August is weighing even more heavily on our minds.Even now, with increasingly empty shelves and the shop fixtures themselves up for sale, we are struggling to fully come to terms with the fact that in just four weeks we will all be going our separate ways. The coming months will undoubtedly be a challenging time. Perhaps, for some, the ordeal may turn out to be a blessing in disguise. It’s still hard to walk away from this experience with anything other than a deep sense of pessimism and a total distrust of big business.This article was amended on Tuesday 30 August to feature the name of the writer. It was originally published anonymously.