Intimations – Alexandra KleemanLast year’s You Too Can Have A Body Like Mine established Kleeman as a millennial novelist to watch and earned her comparisons to Thomas Pynchon. She’s a patient, lyrical chronicler of young urban people and this new collection of 12 short stories sees her take on all stages of human life in her unique style.From Ali to Zadie: the best books of autumn 2016 Commonwealth – Ann PatchettPatchett, best known as the writer of Bel Canto, has not published a novel since 2011’s State of Wonder. Commonwealth is another of her multilayered narratives, which follows two families – over the course of a few decades – that are united by a single moment of infidelity.   Substitute: Going to School with a Thousand Kids, by Nicholson Baker.Substitute: Going to School With a Thousand Kids – Nicholson BakerBaker is the sort of writer who can make the preparation of a bowl of Cheerios an intricate and fascinating enterprise. Generally he works in fiction, but Substitute is a memoir of his month spent teaching kids in Maine as a substitute in elementary and high schools. This is not investigative journalism per se, but Baker delivers an analysis of American schools that is entirely his own.Here I Am – Jonathan Safran FoerThe author of Everything Is Illuminated and Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close delivers a doorstopper of a third novel that catches a Jewish American family in a moment of personal and geopolitical, crisis. It reportedly took him 10 years to write and moves between action in Israel and the US as the personal and political collide.Moonglow – Michael Chabon      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michael Chabon. Photograph: Ulf Andersen/Getty ImagesAllegedly based on a story Chabon’s own grandfather told on his deathbed, Moonglow begins with Alger Hiss in the aftermath of the Red Scare and takes us through his grandfather’s life right back to his death. It is told as a kind of fictionalized speculative memoir, with the main character referred to by the narrator as simply “my grandfather”.Darling Days – iO Tillett WrightCurrently a co-host of MTV’s Suspect, Wright rose to prominence writing a column for the New York Times’s T Magazine online. Wright prefers to eschew the gender binary, using male pronouns where necessary but otherwise subscribing to no gender. Darling Days is his first book, chronicling Wright’s life among downtown artists and misfits.Blood at the Root: A Racial Cleansing in America –Patrick PhillipsIn 1912 a girl was murdered in Forsyth, Georgia. Three black men were accused of the crime, though they did not stand any sort of fair trial: all three were dead within a day. The looting and burning of black homes and farms that followed was, in effect, a “racial cleansing”. Phillips traces the history of the event in vivid detail.Nicotine – Nell ZinkZink lives in Europe, but this new book is set in New Jersey. Again Zink’s ferocious intelligence and sense of humor are on display here, setting smart but professionally and personally unsatisfied Penny Baker on a collision course with the squatters who live on a property she’s inherited. They are the ones who christen the property Nicotine.  Nicotine by Nell Zink.Shirley Jackson: A Rather Haunted Life – Ruth FranklinOnce considered just another horror writer, Jackson’s reputation as a novelist in America has been uneven. In a new biography, Franklin traces Jackson’s loneliness and marginalization as a woman married to a fierce critic – Stanley Edgar Hyman – who was as much a hindrance to her work as he was a support.The Red Car – Marcy DermanskyIt’s difficult to classify Dermansky’s work. The elements of the plot always suggest a thriller, but – as in her celebrated last outing Bad Marie – Dermansky wants to unsettle rather than horrify you. In The Red Car, a young woman in Queens receives the titular vehicle as her inheritance from an old boss and has to set off on a trip to San Francisco to recover it.The Angel of History – Rabih AlameddineAlameddine’s follow-up to An Unnecessary Woman follows Jacob, a gay Yemeni American poet who lost a lover and many friends during the Aids crisis and who was brought up in a Cairo brothel. The action is set in a hospital waiting room and there’s a purgatorial element at play as Satan and Death appear before him to rake over his life.Today Will Be Different – Maria SempleSemple’s Where’d You Go, Bernadette, was a breakout hit of 2013: funny, fresh and unpretentious, even though its main character was a very precocious young girl. Today Will Be Different is a bit different. Middle-aged Eleanor is looking to change her life in Amazon-drone-dwelling Seattle, with most of the action taking place over the course of one day, but there’s a graphic novel inserted into the book. The Mothers – Brit BennettBennett’s debut starts with an abortion, then weaves from that premise the fates of three friends in southern California. Narrated in part by a chorus of “Mothers”, the book is written in arrestingly direct and clean prose. This is Bennett’s first novel, though she is also known for her online essays.  A Gambler’s Anatomy by Jonathan Lethem.A Gambler’s Anatomy – Jonathan LethemThe game in question in Jonathan Lethem’s 10th novel is backgammon. Bruno Alexander is a world-class player who travels around winning money off marks, but he’s also suffering from a brain tumor, oh, and he’s telepathic. Alongside Zink, Lethem’s the best absurdist working in American writing right now and this book promises to be a customary wild ride.My Own Words – Ruth Bader GinsburgThe memoir of the supreme court justice who became an unlikely meme in the last three years perhaps needs no recommendation. But those curious about how a young woman from Brooklyn made her way past innumerable sexist naysayers are in for a treat. Much recommended as a Christmas gift for smart, ambitious nieces. And nephews, too.