They say if you love something let it go. If it comes back, it was meant for you. If it doesn’t, at least it will make a good story. While true love is beautiful, there is something undeniably compelling about doomed love. What is it about heartbreak that draws us in? Is it the rawness? Is it the search for something that is not idealised, but real? Even when we know a story is going to end tragically, we can’t seem to look away. As readers, are we engaging with the rise or the fall? Or is it the entire visceral experience, tragedy and all?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Catherine Doyle: ‘doomed love is compelling’. Here follows a list of my favourite doomed romances in YA [MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS]:   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 1. Tris and Tobias in Divergent by Veronica RothThere’s nothing quite so frightening as investing in a series with first-person point-of-view narration, only to have it abruptly switch to a different narrator right at the end of the final novel. That’s when you know something bad’s about to happen. The beginning of Tris and Tobias’ love story was the stuff YA dreams are made of. Both a little damaged, but loyal and brave, their union was inevitable. Their separation? Perhaps, this was too. After a long and arduous fight for justice in her world, Tris ends up sacrificing herself for what she believes to be the right reason: to save everyone she loves. The final novel ends two years after Tris’ death when Tobias is still mourning her. “A fire that burns that bright is not meant to last,” he says. The 10 best Hunger Games quotes that show Katniss's strength 2. Katniss and Gale in The Hunger Games by Suzanne CollinsThis is a controversial choice, but you can’t root for Katniss and Peeta without also understanding the dissolution of the love (and more importantly, all the potential) she had with her best friend Gale, aka Hot Hemsworth. Perhaps Katniss and Gale would have ended up together had she not been reaped, had she not had to kill a bunch of other people and dismantle her entire problematic society from within. People change, especially teenagers. They drift apart, and the woman that Katniss became was no longer suited to the man that Gale grew into. In the end, Peeta is more than a worthy choice – kind and loyal, and true, but a part of me will always mourn Revolutionary Gale, just a little, every now and then. Jennifer Niven's top 10 teen books to save your life 3. Violet Markey and Theodore Finch in All the Bright Places by Jennifer NivenBy page three, you know this book is going to punch you in the heart. Don’t fight it. Just lay back and let it happen. Violet and Finch first meet on top of the Bell Tower at school, a not-so-subtle foreshadowing of how precarious their relationship turns out to be. Violet is still mourning the death of her sister, and Finch is suffering from severe bipolar depression. In each other, they find solace. Niven writes love in a way that reaches out of the pages and pulls you in. Unfortunately, you’re still there when heartbreak hits. It inches towards you, slowly, slowly, until you’ve cried yourself into severe dehydration without even realising it. The greatest John Green quotes ever 4. Augustus Waters and Hazel Grace Lancaster from The Fault in Our Stars by John GreenIf you want to feel every emotion on the human spectrum all within the space of a few hours, then I urge you to read this book. John Green will play your heartstrings like a guitar and fill your head with a book of quotes about love, life and loss. Augustus meets Hazel in a cancer support group, and what follows is a short-lived romance bursting with all-consuming love. This is modern tragedy at its best: gut-wrenching, soul-destroying perfection. Here is a love that lasts only fleetingly in the lives of these young protagonists but is potent enough to make it feel like infinity. In the words of Augustus Waters: “Oh, I wouldn’t mind Hazel Grace. It would be a privilege to my heart broken by you.” And it’s our privilege to watch.5. Twylla and Lief in The Sin Eater’s Daughter by Melinda SalisburyI have it on very good authority that Melinda Salisbury likes to make her readers suffer. She is, after all, a Slytherin. Oh, how I suffered for this ill-fated love. Twylla is Daunen-embodied, the daughter of the gods, a girl who can kill anyone with a single touch. She spends her days holed up in the castle at Lormere, sheltered from the outside world and bound to a life she does not want. Enter a charming and compelling new guard, Lief: a regular medieval stud with a wide smile and an enticing sense of mischievousness. All of a sudden, Twylla’s life is ignited by love, by excitement, by possibility, and as the reader, you are willing it to go well. You are dying for her to capture some small kernel of joy for herself. But alas, no, it is not to be. Betrayal hurtles towards her like a battering ram, and the axe of doom descends on this once wonderful love in a thrilling climax. And just like Twylla, you are left reeling. The Next Together by Lauren James – review 6. Matthew and Katherine in The Next Together by Lauren JamesThis is a reincarnation romance novel about a couple who are destined to meet again and again in different lives only to be torn apart each time. It’s epic love and doomed romance all rolled into one. The protagonists are different in every era, but one thing remains constant: their perfectness for one another. But fate is not on their side… or is it? This book will wear your fingernails down as you flip through the pages desperately hoping that that the Crimean-war-era Matthew and Katherine (Mattherine, as I call them) or the Carlisle versions, or the near-future scientists ones, or… well, you get the idea, will be the ones that make it work against the odds. Like Matthew and Katherine, your heart will break over and over again, until the reason for their repeated ill-fated couplings is finally revealed. Maggie Stiefvater: I steal a real human heart for each of my characters 7. Blue and Gansey in The Raven Cycle by Maggie StievfaterThis is perhaps the most unnerving tragedy in YA, because although the final book has yet to be released, we all know the romance between the protagonists, Blue and Gansey, is doomed. How do we know that? Because Maggie Stievfater told us, right at the beginning of book one. One of the first things the reader learns is that Blue and Gansey are going to kiss, and that Gansey is going to die afterwards. There follows two more powerhouse books complete with thrilling twists and turns, impressive emotional depth and several almost-kisses. As a reader, you are conflicted. You want the kiss – the moment of completion for these characters who are so clearly in love, but you definitely don’t want the death that will follow directly after. Snape is voted favourite Harry Potter character 8. Snape and Lily in JK Rowling’s Harry Potter seriesAn unconventional choice, perhaps, but you cannot deny that this is a tragedy, and the most compelling of doomed romances, probably because the romance didn’t actually happen, yet the associated unrequited feelings steered a large chunk of the storyline to its conclusion. It’s easy to break down, really. Snape loved Lily, Lily loved James, Lily and James had Harry, Snape mercilessly bullied Harry because Harry reminded him of James, and in a move worthy of the ultimate redemption, Snape sacrificed himself to save Harry and, actually, the world. All because he so loved the boy’s mother, even after all these years. Always. Fangirling: teen megafan interviews Leigh Bardugo and Sarah J Maas 9. Celaena and Chaol from the Throne of Glass series by Sarah J MaasFor the first three books, it was all going so well. Calaena meets Chaol when he is Captain of the Guard at the palace and she is the King’s assassin. Sparks fly, flirtation ensues, and the romance explodes from the pages and sweeps the reader right up inside it. Then for complicated, highly exciting plot reasons, Calaena has to travel to another land, where her true soulmate, Rowan, happens to be waiting for her. And Chaol? The swoon-worthy, fantasy-inducing, leading man from the initial books fades into the shadows and drifts towards the scrap-heap of YA love where other fan favourites, like Gale aka Hot Hemsworth and shirtless Jacob Black are there to welcome him. 10. Romeo and Juliet By William ShakespeareFive hundred years ago, William Shakespeare gifted the world with the poster boy and girl for doomed romance, and after all this time, they stand unchallenged at the forefront of tragedy. It’s a tale we all know well. Boy and girl meet, boy and girl fall madly in love, boy and girl are torn apart by their feuding families, boy and girl kill themselves in a horrible, tragic theme that continues to pervade modern literature. It’s a masterpiece. A heartbreaking masterpiece.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Catherine Doyle is the author of Inferno (Blood for Blood Series: Book 2), published by Chicken House. Buy Inferno at the Guardian bookshop. Follow her on twitter @doyle_cat