In the early 1980s, I was travelling in Afghanistan with the mujahideen, the rebels who were fighting the Russians with the only weapons they had: AK47 rifles and a few rocket launchers. They were tremendously dramatic looking and made for fantastic photographs.Nobody was getting into the country at the time, but a reporter and I went to Peshawar on the Pakistan border where some mujahideen agreed to take us in. We travelled in an old ambulance with me sitting in the back wearing a burqa, hunching down pretending to be a woman.Once we’d passed the border, we set off on foot. This was the first time journalists had travelled with the mujahideen, and it was the most physically demanding thing I’d ever done. We’d get up around 4am and walk until midday, rest a couple of hours in the heat, then walk for another four hours. We were there for six weeks and I lost two stone.We never stayed in the same place longer than two nights because the Afghans feared being discovered by the Russians. This was taken at one of the safe houses where we rested. There was no electricity and it was pitch dark, so I made a tripod with stones, opened the shutter, then went into each room one by one and set off a flash. I had no idea if it had worked until I got back home and developed the film.On this trip, I had a run-in with the son of the mujahideen leader after he shot this beautiful white bird just for fun. We got into an argument and he challenged me to target a small rock. He said if he hit it, he would kill me. And if I hit it, I could kill him. I’ve never carried a gun – I don’t believe journalists should – but I was so angry I accepted the challenge and borrowed a soldier’s Kalashnikov. He aimed and missed. Then I aimed, trying to remember everything I had picked up about shooting. Luck was with me. I hit the rock. There was dead silence. I turned to the young lad and said: “Where would you like to die?” It was extremely tense. Then – suddenly – everyone realised I was joking and laughed.I got my big break at the Daily Express. The competition there was steep: they had 64 staff photographers and 14 freelancers, of which I was the lowliest. But I’d learned a trick: to keep my vaccinations topped up. When the famine started in East Pakistan – now Bangladesh – I was the only photographer whose cholera jab was up to date. It was shocking seeing so many dead and dying, especially children. I just photographed everything and ended up a runner-up in the World Press photo contest. I’d proved myself and started to get the big foreign assignments. I was in Uganda during Idi Amin’s coup.I’ve had a wonderful career and I’m proud of my work, but I love music too. I sing in a choir. I think I’d give it all up to be able to play classical piano like my wife.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   John Downing. Photograph: Anita D'AttellisJohn Downing’s CVBorn: Llanelli, Wales, 1940.Training: Apprenticeship on the Daily Mail at 15. Influences: W Eugene Smith, David Douglas Duncan, Don McCullin. High point: “First time I won photographer of the year.”Low point: “Can’t think of one. I’m an optimist.”Top tip: “Shoot it on the way out – it may not be there on the way back.”