Born in Australia, Hewitt, 35, began playing tennis in his early teens; aged 20, he became the youngest male player to be ranked world No 1. He won the US Open in 2001, Wimbledon in 2002 and helped Australia to Davis Cup victories in 1999 and 2003. He retired earlier this year, and is commentating on Wimbledon for the BBC. He is married to the actor Bec Hewitt, has three children and lives in Melbourne.When were you happiest? When my kids were born.What is your greatest fear? Death.What is your earliest memory? Going to my dad’s football matches – he played Australian rules professionally - around the corner from where we lived in Adelaide.Which living person do you most admire, and why? Greg Norman, for the way he handles winning and losing.What is the trait you most deplore in yourself? As a tennis player you have to be selfish; it all stops with you.What is the trait you most deplore in others? Being too arrogant.What was your most embarrassing moment? During the Wimbledon final in 2002 when a streaker came on to the court. I didn’t know what the hell was going on.Aside from a property, what’s the most expensive thing you’ve bought? A black Ferrari 360 Spider in 2004. Too much!What would your super power be? Being able to knock down walls.What or who is the greatest love of your life? My wife. We met at a charity tennis day, then didn’t speak for five years as we were both in other relationships.What do you most dislike about your appearance? I am just over 5ft 11in. Anything over 6ft would be handy.If you could bring something extinct back to life, what would you choose? Dinosaurs.What is your most unappealing habit? My kids have a go at me for chewing with my mouth open.Which words do you most overuse? “Come on!”What is top of your bucket list? I would love to play in an Australian rules grand final.What is your guiltiest pleasure? Starbucks Frappuccino.Who would you invite to your dream dinner party? Muhammad Ali.What is the worst job you’ve done? I was fortunate to be a tennis player from such a young age, so just cleaning my room as a teenager, or doing the dishes.If you could go back in time, where would you go? Centre court, Wimbledon, 2002, picking up the trophy. It’s like an out-of-body experience and you don’t have enough time to take it in.Vinnie Jones: ‘My favourite smell? Flowers’ When did you last cry, and why? My kids wrote a song for me, recorded it on to a CD and it was played before my last Australian Open. I had no idea until I heard it live on TV.What single thing would improve the quality of your life? To move like I did in my early 20s. I’ve had knee and hip surgery, and my toe joint fused since.What keeps you awake at night? My wife cleaning.How would you like to be remembered? As someone who got the absolute most out of themselves.What is the most important lesson life has taught you? Don’t take anything for granted.