If you’re not scrubbed up on “femejism” or proudly exhibiting “lady wood” in the following months, then you might as well be living in 1916. While expanding the boundaries of gender within music is far from revolutionary – Little Richard wore makeup and flamboyant costumes in the much more conservative 1950s – the tail end of the year sees a flurry of artists skewering old-fashioned archetypes.From Beyoncé’s journey into female fury and forgiveness on Lemonade to Frank Ocean’s introverted portrayal of queerness and masculinity on Blonde, artists are rejecting submissive forms of femininity and renouncing toxic masculinity. Mykki Blanco is tired of the media saying he's 'a drag queen, a transvestite, a homosexual rapper, or a transsexual' The latter battle is played out to a soundtrack of alt-R&B by artist Tom Krell, who goes by the stage name How to Dress Well. On one of the standout tracks of his fourth LP Care, released this month, he sings: “I don’t wanna act like a man.” The track What’s Up? addresses the atmosphere of aggressive hyper-masculinity he was raised in and still feels oppressed by: he describes “a joyless man” who “has got to go. Or at least learn how to love and care.” He’s not out to demonise men unable to express their sensitivity, but offer encouragement instead. Although, given he’s a lo-fi blog pop pioneer beloved of Pitchfork, it’s unlikely he’s preaching to the steroidal neanderthals the message is intended for.After a string of genre-polarising mixtapes, autumn also sees the hotly anticipated debut from Mykki Blanco. The artist’s identity has often been at the forefront of critical coverage, rather than the stark, theatrical music he creates. Partial to provocation – specifically surrounding media assumptions about him “as a drag queen, or a transvestite, as a homosexual rapper, a transsexual or an HIV positive pop star” – Blanco’s powerful pop-rap is about both “feminine empowerment” and the discovery of one’s “second soul”. There is no singular identity at its core, more an atmosphere of confrontation and questioning.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘No such thing as gender’ … the cover of Young Thug’s No, My Name Is Jeffery. Photograph: Garfield Larmond JrRap revolutionary Young Thug is also no stranger to confounding gender expectations. In a YouTube video advert for Calvin Klein’s autumn campaign, the Atlantan makes his attitude towards the sexes explicit. “In my world it don’t matter: you could be a gangster with a dress, you could be a gangster with baggy pants,” he says while dressed in nothing but a regal diamond necklace. “I feel there’s no such thing as gender.” It’s a concept he brings to life on the cover of his latest mixtape, No, My Name Is Jeffery. He is photographed in an elegant couture garment lifted from Italian designer Alessandro Trincone’s Annodami collection – whose style is said to be “rigorously gender-free”. The image has triggered extreme reactions: Dazed and Confused made hefty comparisons to the rapper and David Bowie, while Instagram comments are an inevitable mess of homophobic slurs.Sweden’s Tove Lo is also about to unleash the follow-up to her platinum-selling debut album Queen of the Clouds. The title Lady Wood, a phrase that refers to “a female hard-on”, perfectly sums up the LP’s spirit: it’s full of songs about being brash, brave and outlandish – challenging the idea of women being softer and more submissive. On the opposite end of the avant garde spectrum, the ghostly sounds of Jenny Hval take a more mythical, mysterious approach. On her new album Blood Bitch, themes include “blood that is shed naturally … menstruation. The white and red toilet roll chain which ties together the virgins, the whores, the mothers, the witches, the dreamers and the lovers”. Its lyrics are not imbued with pain and horror but lust, desire, longing and passion. Dolly Parton’s PMS Blues this is not.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Potent … Deap VallyMeanwhile, Angel Olsen, who recently expressed her disdain for publications that treat her like an ethereal woodland elf, is about to put out a stomping 60s rock’n’roll record full of lovestruck fury – a highlight of which is Shut Up Kiss Me. Although she insists that the album, My Woman, is not explicitly about gender identity, it is full of anger and frustration (“I dare you to understand what makes me a woman!”). It also provides a contrast to the passive love songs featured on last autumn’s big heartache album, Honeymoon, by Lana Del Rey. Olsen might not get the guy, but she certainly won’t be lounging around in a pair of fluffy kitten heels until he changes his mind.It would be remiss to neglect Laura Marling’s new podcast series, Reversal of the Muse, essential listening for anyone bored by the male-centric, behind-the-scenes documentation of the music industry. Likewise, the particularly potent release, later this month, by rock duo Deap Vally. Its title – Femejism – either merits an entire dissertation, or a momentary laugh. Who knows. This autumn, everything’s open to interpretation.