What? Morphy Richards’ Spiralizer Express is a motorised veg slicer. Ingredients impaled on a plunger are fed through a slit-bladed conical funnel, collecting in a receptacle below.Why?It’s time for Spiralizer 2: Electric Boogaloo.Well?I write about kitchen gadgets, which means that, against my will, I have a lot of conversations about spiralizers. Other subjects that usually arise include eggs, Brexit, and how I knew about the party at all, as I wasn’t technically invited. Anyway, I hate spiralizers, in the way Buzz Aldrin doesn’t want to talk about the moon. Spiralizers are the totem gadget of low-GI Janes and Joes who shun carbs and reward themselves with apples, like show ponies pulling off a perfect piaffe.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rhik depresses some courgettes. Photograph: Martin Godwin for the GuardianLuckily, the spiralizers I have tried all involved manual labour, so I was able to dismiss them out of hand, literally. Some were lethal hand-cranked guillotines; others were pencil sharpeners for carrots. But say an ambivalent hello to a new generation of electric spiralizers. (Morphy Richards claims its model is the first of its kind, though Kenwood actually got in earlier with its in June, and stole a march. It’s a bit like the US-Soviet Space Race, but pointless.)The Express is essentially a one-function food processor, with a taller chute. Yet I’m horrified by how easy it is to use. A switch trips the revolving, hidden blade. Gravity helps guide the veg to an aesthetic death, streamers of beet purling tub-ward, like blood in water. I depress a courgette, dribble oil, and create a healthy dish in seconds. Manual models often leave sizeable, unspiralized vegetable stumps. Not so here – after the action, one is left holding an acceptably small knob – which is a good thing.Instagrammable (ugh) salads of carrot and cucumber twirls are conjured in moments. Cherished ideas of who I am, and what I like, fall away. Am I now the kind of wholesome dullard who tells strangers, “Paleo saved my life”, and wears a Fitbit? No. They may take my carbs, but I will never prance the piaffe. Get away from me. But stay close. I hate you; I love you.Redeeming features?As easy as stealing strawberry laces from a baby, and replacing them with raw beetroot spaghetti.Counter, drawer, back of the cupboard?On the counter. Counting down the days to an identity crisis. 4/5