Women often have complicated feelings about hen parties. Modern feminism fights on many fronts, some more serious than others: consent, online abuse, equal pay, Kim Kardashian v Taylor Swift. But the hen party straddles the line between the serious and the (seemingly) frivolous. On the one hand, it suggests questions about a woman’s place in the outdated rituals of courtship – has she really done everything “right” if she doesn’t have a weekend of contrived abandon before settling down? On the other, someone is waving a penis straw and grinding up against a bouncer. It is hard to know what to think.From strip clubs to sports halls: the reinvention of pole dancing Part of the problem is that hen dos seem to turn modern, liberal women into monsters. Women in their 20s and 30s, most of whom have been having sex, capably, for more than a decade, become squeamish and giggly, talking crudely about appendages. Women who would normally rail against sexual objectification start squeezing the buttocks of spry young strippers. Those who might usually be happiest wearing stylish, muted tones suddenly insist on contrived, kaleidoscopic themes. “Stars and stripes and polka dots,” read the email to one friend from a maid of honour this week.“We hired two naked butlers,” admits Haxie Meyers-Belkin, 26, who went to the hen do of a close university friend earlier this year. “This was a bunch of highly educated, capable women squealing at the tired, predictable, rehearsed innuendo spouted by these two young men.”So far, so tacky. But it’s all fun and games, and objecting too much can feel po-faced. Indeed, Meyers-Belkin rejects the idea that there is much to intellectualise. “Really, it was such fun. It was obviously ridiculous: the bride’s mum got a lap dance. It’s about girls being silly, and not much else.”And it is. All the performative sexuality and exuberance is intended as a celebration of female friendship, an opportunity for female bonding and nights that end in deep, meaningful chats over large amounts of wine. It is almost a rite of passage: it is easy to parody because the expected roles and behaviour are so established.On the other hand, gendered celebrations feel regressive. Granted, that applies to stag dos, too, but historic gender imbalances add an extra dimension. “It used to be a send-off into married life, which meant a sex life,” says Kate Leaver, 28. “But now that couples generally have sex before marriage, it doesn’t have to be an initiation ceremony for virgins.”“Sometimes, I find the whole celebration about becoming a wife a bit hard to swallow,” agrees Ella Lewis, 28. “It just seems to me like they’re celebrating losing a bit of their identity and individuality. Which seems really outdated.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It becomes a bunch of highly educated, capable women squealing at tired, predictable, rehearsed innuendo.’ Photograph: Cultura/REX/ShutterstockThe hen do demands that women sequester themselves away for a night, or even a whole weekend. Being separated, by mandate, from “the men” is also strange: some of these women are probably total strangers, whereas close male friends are excluded simply on the grounds of gender.One of the reasons why hen dos can feel so uncomfortable is that you are not slurping out of willy straws with your best friends: you are often doing it with a group of girls whom you don’t really know (sometimes the girlfriends of your friends, or distant family members) – and one of them is uploading pictures of it all to Facebook.“Because of hen parties, I’ve had to do a shot of tequila off a topless man’s torso in front of my sister, my sister-in-law and my stepmother,” says Leaver. And the parties are expensive: one friend is spending almost £500 on a hen do in Amsterdam. She doesn’t even have her own room.Marriage is also shifting, which makes hens seem all the more outdated. How do gay couples approach heterosexual rituals such as hens and stags? “Weddings and hen dos have been among the most rigidly heteronormative experiences of my life,” agrees Alice Shepherd, 30. “I find it really funny how in the cold light of day, I would be kind of appalled at the idea of buying any kind of penis-related novelty item, yet when you are organising or attending a hen do, it is an incredibly difficult thing to avoid. One of the main photos I have from my friend’s hen do is of me and another bridesmaid brandishing penis straws and lollies at each other. We are both lesbians.”Mums behaving badly: films take aim at the myth of the perfect parent There are many complicated reasons for the resurgence in modern feminism. Traditions such as hen parties, that play so heavily to gendered type, seem like exactly the sort of thing this new movement hopes to overwrite. But can, and should, modern feminists seek to reshape the ritual?“In the past five years, hen parties have had a bit of a facelift,” says Beth Nicholas, a founder of Betty’s Birds, which organises hen dos. “We’ve started having girly weekends away with our friends, instead of one night of hectic drinking, with feather boas, willy straws and L-plates. Mostly, [women] are celebrating marriage and friendships with weekends in the countryside or visiting popular hen-party cities, such as Bath or Bristol.”But it doesn’t feel as if what Nicholas is describing qualifies as much of a shift. It still insists on a divide between men and women. Weekends in the countryside with the girls are simply a PG version of the raunchy, naughty hen do. Many modern women would usually still roll their eyes at the idea of afternoon tea at a country hotel. Again, it suggests that the hen party encourages a strange identity crisis: women default either to ladette traditions, or to typically “girly” activities because they are not really sure what the alternative is.So what could it be? The only genuinely revolutionary shift that Nicholas describes is in the increase in the number of “sten” parties she caters for: stag and hen parties combined. One friend called her version a “shag” do: she took a mixed group of friends to an Airbnb, and they spent the weekend getting drunk on their own terms and playing hide and seek in the huge grounds. Another did away with her hen night altogether, and waited, instead, until after her wedding in Italy, when a mixed group of friends stayed on in a big house for a holiday.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Women default either to ladette traditions, or to typically “girly” activities because they are not really sure what the alternative is.’ Photograph: AlamyA real change would be welcome. Every stage seems to bring out the worst stereotypes about women: the passive-aggressive email chains before the event, the competitiveness to show you are closest to the bride; outdoing nominal friends to give the better present. Remember the Kristen Wiig film Bridesmaids? It’s funny because it is a (barely) exaggerated version of all these impulses.Penis straws and strippers make it feel as if you are trying to match lad culture play for play. L-plates are brash and silly, but the metaphor riffs ultimately on the idea of inexperience (which is a little sinister). On the other hand, afternoon tea is a reversion to a genteel, sanitised and antiquated version of femininity. Why not just go to the pub or throw a boozy dinner? Think about how you would usually celebrate: birthday parties don’t inspire a dizzy, frenzied identity crisis. They rarely cause arguments between friends and strangers. You can keep it all-female if you want, but refusing some of the traditions in favour of forging your own might also put an end to some of those unpleasant behaviours, like snarky emails and WhatsApp chains.The term 'crazy' shouldn't be thrown around lightly – ask any woman Ultimately, though, of the two schools of hen do tradition, penis paraphernalia may well be more progressive. Feminism is ultimately about equality, and playing at a version of lad culture means well (even if the Facebook photos are pretty embarrassing). In their 2008 paper, Hen Parties: Bonding or Brawling?, academics Adam Eldridge and Marion Roberts explore the hen party as a “site of transgression, empowerment and female bonding, and … a unique opportunity to explore women’s shifting attitudes to late-night culture.” Perhaps mimicking the boys is, in fact, perfectly in line with modern feminism.And maybe we would be losing something if it all changed. A hen do is a rare occasion when women hang out with other women, which is not by definition regressive. Enjoying female company doesn’t mean you are defaulting to an outdated, gendered version of friendship. Spending time with a large group of women – friends or otherwise – obviously doesn’t mean you aren’t a feminist.Perhaps, then, hen dos are a neat metaphor for the identity crisis of the modern woman: we are more sure of ourselves, but old-school ceremonies and expectations can still throw us off our game. Are we Madonnas having petits fours, or whores waving straws? It seems we can’t be both – and aren’t sure if we want to be either.• This article was amended on 9 August 2016 to remove material originally included because of a misunderstanding.