The actor Stephanie Beacham has revealed that she was raped at the start of her career in the 1970s.In a frank interview, the British star, 69, who played Sable Colby in Dynasty in the late 1980s, said that keeping silent about the assault had damaged relationships and “screwed up” her life.The impact of the attack caused her to end a relationship that could have resulted in marriage, Beacham told the Sunday Telegraph, but she also said she believed that on some occasions sexual assault could be the fault of the victim. She said the attack was not perpetrated by a fellow actor.Beacham starred in The Nightcomers with Marlon Brando in 1971 and the Dynasty spinoff The Colbys.Discussing how, early in her career, she had learned how to avoid being inappropriately touched and carried a £5 note sewn into her coat as “getaway money”, she said: “I can remember avoiding rape several times and a couple of times not.”After being questioned further about the date, Beacham added: “No, I will, for my own brain, be more specific and say once, and it was the very early 70s. And that is fact.”She refused to name her attacker, but said he was not a “theatrical person”.She said that on some occasions a sexual assault could be the fault of the victim. “I’m getting terribly interested in looking back and now, with all the talk in the news about child abuse, I’m thinking, are we going too far? Isn’t it interesting how the victim thinks that it’s their fault? I’m old enough to think that maybe, sometimes, it is.”However, she denied that in her case it was her fault. “I don’t think I’m politically correct enough for modern times. I just knew that, at a certain point, I had to leave [a party] otherwise I would get into trouble and it would be my fault, not because I had asked for it, but there was almost a feeling that if you aroused a man it would be your fault: ‘I saw her dancing, she looked like she was asking for it.’ Of course she wasn’t!”In 1973, Beacham married the actor and writer John McEnery, with whom she had two daughters, but they divorced six years later.Last year, she announced her engagement to Bernie Greenwood and recently starred with Alison Steadman in the BBC sitcom Boomers.Asked if the assault had affected her own relationships, she said: “Yeah, absolutely. I didn’t know that that’s what was causing it at the time. But absolutely. It caused me to break off a long-term relationship that probably should have been my marriage, because I couldn’t admit to it, I felt it was my fault. No, it screwed up my life, definitely.”Beacham’s first screen role was in the BBC series The Queen’s Traitor in 1967, in which she played Mary, Queen of Scots. After decades of working in the US, she returned to the UK in 2003 to take a role in the ITV prison drama Bad Girls. Among subsequent roles, she appeared in Coronation Street for five months in 2009.In January 2010, Beacham entered Channel 4’s seventh and final series of Celebrity Big Brother as a housemate. She was the only woman to make it to the final and finished in fifth place.Beacham is among a number of female celebrities who have discussed their experiences of sexual assault. Madonna, Oprah Winfrey, the actor Gabrielle Union, Lady Gaga and Tori Amos have all revealed they are survivors of rape or sexual assault.