There’s a thick and slightly battered volume on my bookshelf, with a line drawing of a man in a deerstalker hat. The book, The Complete Sherlock Holmes, has an inscription on the cover page. It reads: “To Meg, who has made and will make great fantasies of her own. Love, your father.” The date he has written is that of my 12th birthday.Until recently, those fantasies were just that. They clogged my hard drive with manuscripts that will never (and don’t deserve to) see daylight. And they ultimately receded under the onslaught of daily life.And then, in late 2014, a sheaf of papers was tossed to me over my parents’ dining room table and the fantasies came galloping back.“I’ve started writing about a gentleman convict detective who wins his freedom by solving a murder and has to go from one penal station to the next solving crimes to keep it,” he said. “It’s not really my thing, though, and I have too much else to do. Why don’t you have a crack?”Napoleon’s Last Island by Tom Keneally review – Australia's link to an exiled emperor That conversation led, ultimately, to The Soldier’s Curse, the first book of the Monsarrat series (the second is with the publisher and Tom wants to do 12 in all), following the adventures of the gentleman convict Hugh Monsarrat and his closest (and more intelligent) friend, the illiterate housekeeper Hannah Mulrooney.And getting the story on to the page was an adventure in itself.Initially, we planned to write alternating chapters, perhaps weaving in and out between two distinct voices.But when I started trying to inject my own voice into the 30,000 words Tom had written, I seized up. What gave me the right, I thought, to change the words of a man with dozens of books, a Booker prize and a few Miles Franklin awards in his back pocket?And, because I was tentative, so were the resulting chapters. They had Tom’s strong and recognisable voice, with the faint hum of another consciousness running underneath them.So, at the suggestion of our agent, we decided to experiment. I would start from scratch using the characters Tom had created and write the first few drafts, with Tom coming in on the rewrites.And that, as it turned out, was just as consultative as writing together would have been. He was the recipient of daily emails and phone calls. “What kind of shoes would Monsarrat have worn?” “Should we put Hannah in the frame for the murder?” “Diamond (a character who was initially a little more benign than he became by the final draft) is turning into a psychopath. Are you comfortable with that?”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Meg and Thomas Keneally on the day they finished the manuscript of The Soldier’s Curse.The guts of the plot, though, came together during countless bushwalks around North Head, as we stomped our way down towards Manly deciding who would live and who would die, who would fall and who would be redeemed. And they were refined by similar treks along the viciously beautiful coastline of Port Macquarie where the book is set, as we made a nuisance of ourselves with the local historical society.For me to be able to drive the story myself, to excavate it with the safety net of advice from a master (who I felt free to exploit, as his name was going to be on the cover), was miraculous.And something odd started to happen, an experience I’ve since been told is reasonably common. The characters started operating on their own, directing events, treading paths I hadn’t consciously sent them down. They invented themselves, telling me what their role in the story was and insisting I had to get their scene written before the next cup of coffee. While this was, of course, all coming from my subconscious and from the many conversations with Tom, these people who never existed seemed to me more real, and more independent, than many in the corporeal world.The rewriting process was a gift, a personal masterclass. You can always pick someone who is completely in command of their skill by how effortless they make it look. Tom can add layers of nuance and meaning with a few slashes of the pen. He would deftly transform a personality quirk into a psychological indicator of a dark past, or raise a minor character from a bit player to a reflector of the broader themes of the book. “It doesn’t take much,” he would say, but to me it seemed divinely inspired. There were no pyrotechnics, no screaming matches, no flung pages or slammed doors  We get asked, from time to time, whether we argued during the process, and people seem a little sceptical when we say we didn’t. It certainly helps that we have similar temperaments and personalities, and get along extremely well. There were some minor, genial arm-wrestles over relatively inconsequential points and, given Tom’s vastly superior experience, he had, and deserves, the casting vote. But there were no pyrotechnics, no screaming matches, no flung pages or slammed doors.Tom has been writing since before I was born and, while I have always been around it, I have never been inside it with him. It happened behind his study door and was a country only he could visit.Monsarrat and Mulrooney, wrapped in their green cover, now sit beside Sherlock on my shelf. And while Conan Doyle’s work is among the best birthday presents I’ve ever received, the ability to be inside the process with a man who encouraged my fantasies as a child, and enabled them as an adult, has been by far the most valuable gift he could have given. • Book one of the Monsarrat series by Meg and Thomas Keneally is called The Soldier’s Curse. It is out now through Penguin Random House