In January we released our documentary Radical Brownies, following the creation of a youth group for eight- to 12-year-old girls of colour in the US – the Radical Monarchs.  A social justice-oriented alternative to the Girl Scouts, the Monarchs earn badges – but not for sewing or selling cookies. Instead their badges are for units on issues such as Black Lives Matter, radical beauty, being an LGBTQ ally and environmental justice.From providing education about menstruation to opposing gender inequality and offering volunteering opportunities, here are some of the stories our readers around the world told us about groups that empower them.Hockey Club: ‘Life’s going to knock our girls down over and over. We want them to get back up every time’ Head coach and co-founder of Rose City hockey club in the Portland and Vancouver area Rosemary King says ice hockey teaches girls life lessons they can take away with them once they leave the rink. “On the ice, we set high standards for playing hard but fair, pushing yourself but helping your teammate, and striving to be stronger, faster, and more skilled each practice. Off the ice, we encourage players to take care of one another, listen to each other and thank their parents for the chance to play sports.“The first thing we teach players is how to get up when you fall down: get to table top, bend one knee, lean into that leg, use your muscles to stand up on your skates. Life’s going to knock our hockey girls down over and over. We want them to get back up every time.”Ava Gillespie, 11, joined because she did not want to play hockey with the boys anymore. “I love Rose City and my coaches. They make hockey fun and I learn a lot from them. “Playing with other girls allows me to have the same opportunities as others on the team. Playing on a boys team, in my experience, got too rough and I did not have many chances to touch the puck. On the girls team we look to each other to help one another and include each player when we’re on the ice. “As a young woman, being on this team helps with building up my confidence by giving me a positive experience. It also gives me something to feel good about in my circle of friends (boys and girls) because they are always impressed that someone as small as me plays a tough and physically challenging sport. If it wasn’t for Rose City I wouldn’t have this chance.”Mia Fendick, 11, joined after asking for an ice-skating birthday party and really enjoying it. “My dad told me that he used to play hockey on a frozen pond as a kid. “This experience has been really amazing to me because this was my first chance to play on an all-girls team. I used to play on a co-ed soccer team. It was OK playing with boys, I was not afraid but they were annoying because some of them would not pass the ball. Playing with just girls makes me feel special and stronger. “I think it is important to empower young women because girls can do just as much as boys. Just because you are a boy does not mean you should get more opportunities.” Free to Run: ‘It gave me the chance to experience running without barriers’   Kubra.Kubra, 26, is one of many young women who have found confidence through the work of Free to Run. Established to help women and girls who have been affected by conflict or have left their homes and now live as refugees, the charity uses running and outdoor adventures to empower and support them. Kubra heads up one of Free to Run’s running teams and recently raced in the Marathon of Afghanistan. “I found my passion for running when I helped film some runners who were preparing for the Gobi March. I was inspired by their hard work and have found running a marathon or ultramarathon helps me get to know myself better, to be more confident, and to feel nature, which belongs to everybody in society.“As a woman in my home country I never had the chance to run outside, on the roads, or anywhere. But Free to Run gave me the chance to experience running without barriers. Running helps me to do what I want to do and this means a lot to me. The work I do is important, as I want to open these same roads to my daughters, granddaughters and so many other women out there who want to run like any other individual insociety. When I run I feel freeBinti: ‘It has become easy for me to educate girls and boys about menstruation. Everywhere I go I #smashshame’  Jaipreet Kaur.“Some people believe that there is no shame around periods in the UK,” says Manjit Gill, chief executive and founder of Binti. “Some of those who move here from south Asia bring the taboos of their countries with them. We have heard from girls who miss their sister’s wedding because they cannot participate in a religious ceremony while menstruating, or from others who are not allowed to cook or sit with the rest of the family.”Binti aims to educate girls about menstruation and teach them that it is not something to be ashamed of. “We try to promote menstrual dignity here and across the world, as well as providing sanitary protection to those who need it.” Since 27-year-old Londoner Jaipreet Kaur’s involvement, she has realised the importance of properly educating young girls about menstruation. “We need to make sure that women are empowered and comfortable with talking about it in all situations. It’s also made me more comfortable talking about it with people I know – especially men. It’s really important that both women and men work together to stop this.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nomcebo Mkhali.For 42-year-old Nomcebo Mkhali from Swaziland, Binti has changed her life completely. “When I look back to where I was and where I am now, it’s unbelievable. Binti has made a huge impact in my life as well as to many others in trying to promote menstrual dignity and access to sanitary protection. Yes, some still view menstruation as a taboo but to those that Binti has reached its a whole new world. “It has become easy for me to educate girls and boys about menstruation whether at schools, at home, or at community events. Everywhere I go I #smashshame. Today I stand tall that I bleed and am normal and healthy because of the help I received from Binti.”Us Programme: ‘I realised I could be a positive and strong young woman’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mabinty Taylor-Kamara.Founded last year by 20-year-old Victoria Azubuike from Islington, north London, the Us Programme aims to help inspire and educate young women from disadvantaged backgrounds. Growing up on an estate, Azubuike wanted to show young girls that where you start in life should never affect where you end up. “We understand that part of becoming an individual who can make a positive impact is to learn from those who are already succeeding at doing so, as well as by seeking out available opportunities. We help young women do this by offering self development, continuous support to ambitious female students and special access to a network of successful women in industry dedicated to sharing their knowledge and willing to helping them on their journey.” Mabinty Taylor-Kamara, 17, from London heard about the programme through a friend who saw a flyer for one of their events on Twitter. “I didn’t think very much about it but it seemed like it would be interesting so I went along to the event. “Hearing young women talk about their achievements in life whilst all still in their 20s and 30s honestly motivated me to do so much more with myself. They talked about their flaws, struggles, and their good moments. All of this was really inspiring as it reminded me that I can – and will – prosper in my career and studies as well as be a positive and strong young woman. Discovering this woman I wanted to be is what made me actually join the programme.“Since joining I have received advice, tips, and practical guidance. As a young woman being encouraged by another young woman only a few years older than me (who has also had a similar life to mine) is really inspiring. All the advice has been personal and relatable and it’s shown me that I can do anything that I put my mind to. “I believe that this work is so important for young girls as this can be the difference between feeling like a mediocre young woman and being a great one. Hearing the success stories of and receiving advice from other women like yourself is useful in learning what you need to do, as well as motivating you to do it. The work of the US programme is amazing and I definitely think it will grow and grow.”Girls’ Brigade Scotland: ‘We’ve challenged patriarchal traditions with our girls taking the lead’  Emma.As a girl growing up in the Girls’ Brigade, Emma from Glasgow learned that with hard work, dedication and perseverance she could achieve any goal she set herself. “Meanwhile, in school during PE lessons the boys played football and the girls did dancing. However, on a Wednesday night at Girls’ Brigade we played football and we danced – there was nothing that was off limits to us. I am now a commissioned officer and lead other girls and young women. We’ve updated our badge work and cover topics like feminism, the ethics behind where our food, clothes and make up come from, science experiments, team games like hockey, basketball, football and rounders, and so much more.“The local community is hugely supportive of what we do. We’ve challenged patriarchal traditions with our girls taking the lead as the driving force behind those changes and the response has been amazing, particularly from the older generation. Very recently, the community played a huge part in helping our girls raise over £1,000 to help those less fortunate than them have the opportunity to take a Duke of Edinburgh’s Award.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Members of Girls’ Brigade Scotland at the Women’s March in Edinburgh.Mollie, 19, from Aberdeen said: “As cliched as it sounds, Girls’ Brigade means the world to me. It is so much more than a club – it’s almost like a second family. I have been a part of the Girls’ Brigade for 16 years and am now an officer within my company. Becoming an officer was very important to me as it was my way of giving back to my local community and to inspire other young girls. “I have made so many great memories with some amazing people and I would not swap them for the world. My captain is such an inspirational woman; she is always there supporting us through the good times and the bad times. Girls’ Brigade has allowed my to develop my self-confidence and do things I would have never considered before.”This article was amended on 13 February 2016 to correct the spelling of Mia Fendick’s name in the picture caption. 