I have many happy memories of my 2012 road trip through the American south-west, which took in everything from fog and enchiladas in San Francisco’s Mission district to the Prada art installation in Marfa, Texas. But one unexpected highlight was the pecan orchards. “Orchard” probably isn’t the right word, though, for those rows of dusty deciduous giants that can stand 40m tall and 2m wide – not quite the diminutive Mediterranean almond trees I’m used to. It seems fitting that so large a tree should bear so rich a fruit – I got a headache when doing this test just from tasting too many pecans in one go. That kind of opulence needs tempering. The south-western method is to douse them in sugar and more sugar, which obviously works in a good pecan pie, but your recipes have brought to my attention other, subtler tools.The winning recipe: Malted pecan pancakesFor as long as I’ve been making drop scones, I’ve stuck to a Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall recipe from 2006, but ColonialCravings’ fluffy pancakes have decidedly shaken things up. The plain and wholewheat flour combo, the pecans and the malt conspire to create a depth of flavour that usually only comes from the topping. And they are lighter in texture than should be possible for something fried in butter.Makes 8-10150g self-raising flour40g wholewheat flour1 tbsp baking powder200ml milk2 eggs30g butter, melted3 tbsp malt extract60g pecans, finely choppedA pinch of saltReaders’ recipe swap: Kale | Dale Berning Sawa 1 Whisk together the flours and baking powder in a large mixing bowl. In a separate jug, whisk together the milk, eggs, butter and malt extract until well combined.2 Make a well in the centre of the dry ingredients and pour in about a third of the wet mixture. Mix this together, working from the centre outwards, incorporating a little of the dry mixture at a time. Repeat this with the rest of the wet mixture until everything is blended together into a thick, smooth batter. Fold the chopped pecans into the batter.3 Lightly grease a large frying pan and put it over a medium heat. Pour some batter into the pan to create your pancakes, however big or small you like them, and cook for a couple of minutes before flipping them over and cooking them on the other side. Serve hot with butter and a drizzle of maple syrup.Pecan and fennel seed butter biscuitsIt was detoutcoeurLimousin pairing her pecans with fennel seeds that attracted me, and I was not disappointed. The aromatic seeds lift the nuts out of their buttery richness, and that sprinkling of salt highlights their caramel flavour.Makes 15-25100g pecans, finely chopped100g plain white flour90g butter, at room temperature90g sugar2 tsp fennel seedsA pinch of salt1 Heat the oven to 160C/325F/gas mark 3 and line a couple of baking trays with greaseproof paper.2 Put all the ingredients into a food processor and mix until the dough comes together into a ball. Or mix with a wooden spoon – it just takes longer.3 Roll heaped teaspoonfuls of the mixture into balls and put on to the baking trays 6-7cm apart. Bake for 10-12 minutes or until they flatten out, start to bubble and go golden brown around the edges. Don’t worry if they seem soft – they will continue to cook and firm up after you take them out of the oven.4 Wait for the biscuits to cool on the trays for 10-15 minutes before carefully putting them on a wire rack to cool completely.Potato soup with pecan and rocket pestoBobby Ananta, what a pesto! It’s a good job the recipe makes more than you need for the soup – I ate a fair few spoonfuls straight out of the tub. The soup is every bit as impressive, and shows that pecans aren’t only for sticky sweet dishes: they work just as well with salt and spice.Serves 4-6500g potatoes, cut into 2cm cubes3 banana shallots, finely chopped1 tbsp rapeseed oil1 tbsp butter400ml whole milk100ml double cream500ml vegetable stock50g toasted pecans, to serveA handful of rocket, to serve For the pesto60g pecans, toasted2 garlic cloves80g rocket100ml rapeseed oil40g parmesan cheese, grated¼ tsp chilli flakes1 Indonesian long pepper, grated (optional but highly recommended)50ml olive oilJuice of ½ lemonSalt and black pepper, to taste1 To make the pesto, blitz the pecans, garlic, rocket and rapeseed oil in a food processor, then add the parmesan, chilli, long pepper and olive oil. Season, process to a smooth paste and stir in the lemon juice.2 In a large pan over a medium heat, boil the potatoes for 20 minutes. Set aside. Fry the shallots with rapeseed oil and butter over a low heat until soft and slightly caramelised.3 Add the cooked potato, milk, cream and stock, and simmer for 10 minutes. Add half of the pesto (store the rest in a glass jar in the fridge for up to a week). Stir well and process with a hand blender until smooth. Season to taste.4 Serve with toasted pecans and rocket leaves on top.Spiced pecansBuilding on the spiced theme that Bobby’s pesto hinted at, Chipepo’s snack is definitive proof that hot, sweet and spicy is an excellent way to go with a bag of pecans. I love how straightforwardly this recipe gets you there.Makes 500g 1 tbsp melted salted butter1 tbsp maple syrup1 tbsp sriracha sauce500g pecans1 Heat the oven to 150C/300F/gas mark 2.2 Mix the butter, maple syrup and sriracha together.3 Spread the pecans out on a baking tray in a single layer. Drizzle over the sauce and if necessary stir so all the nuts are coated.4 Bake for about 30 minutes. As the nuts cook, you’ll need to stir to stop them sticking to each other. Let them cool and crisp, then store in a sealed container.Rhubarb pecan crumbleMy friend’s vegan father turned 75 on Saturday, so I was happy to have an appropriate dessert at the ready. As it turns out, The Whole Ingredient, you made everyone – vegan or otherwise – very happy. Where almonds alone might have kept it a little dry, the pecans lent this crumble a moist, rich bite. The dates match the nuts in toffee tones and the whole works beautifully with a fruit mixture judiciously spiced and left unsweetened.Serves 6-8For the filling400g fresh rhubarb4 medjool dates (or 8 smaller dates)150g blueberries (raspberries or blackberries work too)150ml water1 tsp cinnamon1 tsp ground ginger For the topping100g pecans, roughly chopped100g rolled oats50g oat flour (or blitz 50g of oats in a food processor)50g ground almonds2 tbsp coconut sugar2 tbsp coconut oil, melted1 tsp cinnamonA pinch of salt1 Heat the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4. Slice the rhubarb into 1cm-long pieces. Finely chop the dates. Combine these with the rest of the filling ingredients and spread out in a baking dish or tin.2 Combine all the topping ingredients in a bowl and mix well. Spread on top of the fruit filling.3 Cook for about 1 hour, and serve with vegan ice-cream or cream.Take part in our next theme, DRINKS NIBBLES! Three easy ways:Upload: theguardian.com/witness;email: recipes@theguardian.com;Instagram: @guardian_cookby noon on Wednesday 30 Nov. Selected recipes will appear in Cook and online on 10 December.