Sarah and Charles have got another child on the way. They need a house in Brighton with enough space to accommodate their new addition, close to local schools and with a study so they can work from home, too. Phil Spencer and Kirstie Allsopp think they’ve found it. “It’s a bright, three-storey mid-terrace with lots of character,” says Phil, showing them around enthusiastically. Charles isn’t that impressed. “The downside is the garden,” he shrugs. “It’s overlooked.”Two years after Charles and Sarah turned their noses up, I bought that bright, three-storey mid-terrace with lots of character. Now, though, barely a day passes where I don’t wonder what Phil and Kirstie might have got up to in my box room (or my overlooked garden, for that matter). That’s not because it plays on my mind (much) but merely the fact that living here is a permanent and all too painful reminder that Location Location Location is still on the box. Kirstie and Phil have blood on their hands for the credit crunch First aired in 2000, the premise of Location Location Location was simple enough; take two clueless couples and help them find the home of their dreams because they’re singularly incapable of doing so. Initially, viewers warmed to Kirstie’s unashamedly mumsy presenting style and Phil’s wide range of overcoats as they haggled hard on behalf of their couples, usually in a pub. But it was the chemistry. Oh, the chemistry. For years we’ve wondered whether the pair’s tit-for-tat taunts were merely masking a couple that couldn’t keep their hands off each other when the cameras weren’t rolling. It’s like Torvill and Dean. You spend an eternity wondering whether they’ve actually, you know, done it, even though the idea of them actually doing it is something you don’t even want to contemplate anyway.But Channel 4 got greedy. First they doubled show’s length from 30 minutes to 60 minutes. Then came a spillage, a slick even, of spin-offs. There was Relocation Relocation, wherein couples bought one house in the city and one in the countryside and, later, Vacation Vacation Vacation wherein we got to watch two television personalities enjoying what the British call ‘holidays’. When the former was put on hold and the latter cancelled, both in 2011, it seemed as though Allsopp and Spencer’s days were numbered.But no. The shows kept coming: Kirstie’s Handmade Britain, Kirstie and Phil’s Perfect Christmas, Kirstie and Phil’s Love It or List It, Kirstie’s Fill Your House for Free, Phil Spencer: Secret Agent and Secret Agent Down Under. Worse still was Location Revisited, a flimsy, cynical excuse for a show which, essentially, was just showing an old episode and then tagging on an extra 10 minutes or so on the end so that Phil and Kirstie could call round on the couple to see how they’ve settled in their new house and maybe check they’re still together. Executives refer to it as brand extension. Others might call it overkill.Overlooking the fact that Kirstie and Phil were probably responsible for the UK property boom (and therefore have blood on their fingers for the ensuing credit crunch that engulfed the planet), they’re also to blame for the slew of property shows that fill every waking hour of the viewing schedule. Channel 4 alone has 12 property shows on its current roster with plans for more, too. Soon, there won’t be a house, flat, shed or shack in this once proud nation that hasn’t had a property show camera crew traipsing around it.It’ll be Phil Spencer’s Dream Hutches next, you watch.