Today is 29 February, so it is Bachelor’s Day: the one day every four years where women are encouraged to ask men to marry them. Aside from the newspaper stunts every leap year, there don’t seem to be many actual instances of this happening in popular culture. It is the case in literature, too: it is simply rare to find women in books proposing marriage any day of the year.There are a few: Catherine Arrowpoint in George Eliot’s Daniel Deronda says the decisive word to her beau, Herr Klesmer: “Why should I not marry the man who loves me, if I love him?” To her the effort was something like the leap from the deck into the lifeboat. Polly in Nancy Mitford’s Love in a Cold Climate asks Boy to marry her – “I always knew that I should have to do the proposing, and I did” ­– but the less said about that marriage the better (never mind women proposing to men, who thinks marrying their lechy uncle is a great idea?).Leap year proposals: how I proposed to my boyfriend Even if they don’t do the proposing, there is a consistent thread of strong women pushing to make their intentions clear in life and literature. In the Old Testament, a widow and her mother-­in-­law conspire to put the younger woman in the way of Boaz, who will marry her and assure their future. Many of Shakespeare’s heroines could be quite fearless in pursuit of love – Juliet, Viola in Twelfth Night, and Rosalind in As You Like It all find their husbands without waiting around to be chosen.The Wife of Bath in Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales is forward and flirtatious and openly picks out her fifth husband at the funeral of the fourth (“As help me God, I was a lusty one”). Tatiana writes an honest letter to Pushkin’s snottish Eugene Onegin: he is not receptive to her declaration of love, but you have to admire her chutzpah for making it. Flora in Stella Gibbons’s Cold Comfort Farm realises who she wants and summons him, while Rose in Dodie Smith’s I Capture the Castle has no difficulty pushing Simon to propose, even if she doesn’t marry him in the end.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Left to right, Polly (Megan Dodds) and Fanny (Rosamund Pike) in the BBC TV adaptation of Love in A Cold Climate. Photograph: Joss Barratt/BBC ONEAnne Elliot in Jane Austen’s Persuasion is particularly crafty: despite being persuaded out of marriage by an older friend, her passionate speech at the end, delivered with a raised voice to let the gent concerned know she is keen, is a genius way of keeping her feminine delicacy while putting her balls on the line. Austen originally had her express her feelings in a letter but changed her mind, and gave Anne her brave words at the end so she could make her position clear to her long­time love.While untraditional in many other ways, Jane Eyre accepts a very traditional first proposal by Mr Rochester in Charlotte Brontë’s novel: but by the end Jane makes all the moves, saying plainly that she had “made my proposal [of moving in with him] from the idea that he wished and would ask me to be his wife”.The question not to pop this Christmas: 'Can I marry your daughter?' | Rhiannon Lucy Cosslett You might expect that as the world loosened up in the 60s and 70s there would be more occurrences of women proposing in fiction, but that didn’t happen. Young people had other choices now – premarital sex, de facto living arrangements – and marriage became less of an end in itself. Writers like Margaret Drabble, Iris Murdoch and AS Byatt wrote about women who wanted more out of life: love and marriage had their place, but so did careers, knowledge and children. Angela Carter’s fiction was full of women who were constrained by their time and position, but found a way to do what they wanted; again, marriage wasn’t high on that list. Helen Fielding’s iconic noughties heroine Bridget Jones couldn’t be more different from Carter’s defiantly unconventional heroines, with her determination to settle down and longing for a partner, but she remained a woman who acted, who sought a future for herself that was her own. You can actually imagine Bridget proposing marriage to Darcy – but probably by mistake and definitely at the wrong moment.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Emily Blunt in the film adaptation of The Girl on the Train, due out later this year.More recently, the latest craze for toxic marriage thrillers show some less admirable women manipulating their way through relationships – the Gone Girls, the Girls on Trains. (Harriet Lane’s Alys, Always is a particularly good example.) For better or worse: not all these women are right, or lucky, or well­-intentioned, but at least they are shown as having power and self-determination, challenging the old literary cliche of a high-pitched simpering: “Oh but Lord Insert-name-here, this is so sudden!”But there must be many more examples of women’s proposals and indirect proposals in books – add your favourite ones in the comments.