Once the toast of occupied Paris, and one of France’s top recording stars, Léo Marjane, who has died aged 104, in later life became a noted breeder of Percheron horses. Between 1937 and 1944, her warm, strong, vibrant contralto dominated the French airwaves, while beneath an aureole of flaming red hair, her cross, sexy face, palms characteristically pressed to the cheeks, graced the music hall and cabaret stage. “If you like Léo Marjane, you need to have your head examined,” Marlene Dietrich told her friend David Bret; but for many years millions disagreed.Marjane was born Thérèse Maria Léonie Gendebien in Boulogne and, abandoning early ambitions to be an acrobat, began singing publicly as a child. In her teens, her prematurely mature voice won her a talent contest in Marseille. With her first husband, the singer Raymond Gérard, she moved to Paris. There, appearing at the Shéhérazade cabaret, she was spotted by Jean Bérard of Pathé Columbia, and in 1937 cut her first hit record, under the name Léo Marjane. La Chapelle au Clair de Lune was an inspired and incandescent version of the banal In the Chapel in the Moonlight, a song popularised in Britain by Gracie Fields.Marjane’s pure, innocently sensual delivery, so intimate that the microphone caught the breath on her lips, made her version an immediate classic and established the trademarks of her future recordings: the adaptation and redefinition of American standards, delivered with impeccable diction and an intuitive sense of style and natural drama, her voice catching and breaking in moments of emotion; notes unexpectedly and unusually stressed. In this, Marjane followed the tradition of the chanteuses réalistes – realist singers – such as Fréhel and Damia. Her own contribution to French popular music was to develop and integrate the American influence and style of the late 1930s.Marjane’s accompanist in all her recordings up to the fall of France in 1940 was the gifted bandleader Wal-Berg (aka Voldemar Rosenberg), who had worked in Berlin with the young Dietrich. The sophistication and originality of Wal-Berg’s arrangements were much missed after he was obliged to go into hiding, to be replaced by Raymond Legrand. Wal-Berg and Marjane followed La Chapelle au Clair de Lune with a string of hits (including the huge seller En Septembre Sous la Pluie – September in the Rain) which brought Marjane immediate success both in Europe and on tour in the US and Canada, where she achieved enormous popularity with her recital of familiar songs in an excitingly exotic format.She inaugurated the war effort with an idiosyncratic version of It’s a Long Way to Tipperary. Her last big success – in 1943 – was L’Ame au Diable (“I’ve sold my soul to the devil. I made a pact and now I have everything I want.”) She had fallen in with the Nazi hierarchy who crowded into her Paris cabaret, L’Ecrin, in the early hours after her spectaculars at the ABC and the Casino de Paris music halls, alternately titillated and scandalised by her performances of such dangerous and ambiguous material as the Yiddish hit Bei Mir Bist Du Schön, and the degenerate, but glorious, Divine Beguine (Begin the Beguine).She also – and this was held against her until the end – sang on Radio Paris, the official broadcasting station of the occupiers. Presumably unconsciously, Marjane’s material often provided echoes of her own life. In 1940 Edith Piaf’s friend the songwriter Bruno Coquatrix had provided her with an invocation to her guardian angel – Mon Ange. In the following year, her greatest success, Seule Ce Soir (Alone Tonight), became one of the unofficial anthems of the occupation.As with so many of her contemporaries, Marjane’s dealings with the invaders remained confused and ambiguous. At her inevitable postwar trial, her former chauffeur accused her of presiding at SS orgies, a charge he subsequently retracted. Simultaneously, undercover British agents who had worked as waiters at L’Ecrin testified to her more résistante activities. Marjane was acquitted, the judge merely regretting the large numbers of Germans habitually to be seen at L’Ecrin. “I’m shortsighted,” replied the defendant.She took herself off again to the US and starred in a series of television shows. Her comeback in Paris at the Etoile in 1949, for which she was billed simply as Marjane, was, however, a disaster and ended her stage career for good. A sceptical and hostile audience, still resentful of her popularity with the Nazis, was conclusively alienated by her Americanised appearance: the slinky, feline look had metamorphosed into a corn-fed wholesomeness strangely at odds with her repertoire and reputation.Despite this debacle, Marjane continued with her recording career. The transatlantic numbers were now Doris Day hits and no longer a novelty, but Charles Trenet, Gilbert Bécaud and Charles Aznavour composed new material; the voice was stronger, more adventurous, better than ever; and she seems to have had hopes of challenging Piaf’s supremacy. But no one wanted to know. She was a dated and embarrassing relic of the black years.Her second marriage was to Baron Charles de Ladoucette, and she retired to their country home in Barbizon to raise horses. She had appeared in a few films during the war, and as a farewell the director Jean Renoir, an admirer, gave her a spot in Elena et Les Hommes (Elena and Her Men, 1956).Marjane’s recordings were eventually rereleased on cassette and CD, and reveal an exceptional talent, equal and superior to that of many of her more revered contemporaries. Her immensely sophisticated and disillusioned version of Over the Rainbow, for instance, reveals insights of which Judy Garland never dreamed, and makes one speculate on the path Marjane’s life might have taken had it been MGM rather than Pathé that had picked her out of the chorus line in the 1930s.Charles died in 2007; she is survived by their son, Philippe.• Léo Marjane, singer, born 26 August 1912; died 18 December 2016