“I’m Alice Paul, and I’m back to haunt you because you’ve done nothing to pass the equal rights amendment.”These words were uttered to me in 2009 by an actor in full early 20th century suffrage costume at the Smithsonian Institute in Washington DC. I was stunned. Americans didn’t have sex equality in their constitution? How did I miss that? I was educated, graduated Yale – in fact, I was at the Smithsonian to screen my film about the first US congresswoman Jeannette Rankin (A Single Woman).Could it really be true, I wondered? I decided to take a closer look at the status of women in the United States and the myriad of issues that affected them. With the help of my mother and husband, as well as executive producer Patricia Arquette, co-writer Gini Sikes and participating experts such as journalist Gloria Steinem and congresswoman Carolyn Maloney, I crossed the nation and spoke to hundreds of women. Activists and housewives, survivors of domestic violence, sex trafficking or rape; victims of corporate discrimination from vice presidents to minimum wage workers.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest My documentary Equal Means Equal, which was released on Tuesday, is the fruit of this work. The film is a comprehensive argument for finally giving American women what everybody thinks they already have, a basic principle that the United States exports all over the rest of the world: equal rights for women. When our constitution was written in 1787, women had no rights whatsoever. We were chattel – owned first by our fathers and then our husbands. In fact, the legal model of wives was used as the basis for the legal model of slaves. In 1920, women achieved the right to vote. Absolutely nothing has changed in our constitution since then to provide women with additional rights. This fact contradicts the ubiquitous rhetoric of American female “empowerment” and the general consensus that women today can be/do/have whatever they want. We can have it all! We can be president! We can swipe right on Tinder!      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Executive producer Patricia Arquette and Judd Nelson at a screening of Equal Means Equal. Photograph: Todd Williamson/Getty ImagesThe reality is that women in the US are in perilous waters. Three women a day die at the hands of their intimate partners; only 3% of rapists will ever see a day in prison; in Los Angeles County last year, the pay for Latina women dropped to 44 cents on the white male dollar; 13-year-old victims of human trafficking are criminalized while their 47-year-old male johns get a ticket and a slap on the wrist; pregnant women are routinely fired for needing an extra bathroom break. The list goes on. Phyllis Schlafly obituary In Equal Means Equal you see how all of these seemingly disparate issues connect and how dealing with solving extremely practical questions are completely skirted by both government and business and placed squarely on women’s shoulders to figure out and bear.The social environment in which our foundational document was written was greatly different than it is today. As the late dean of our supreme court, Antonin Scalia said himself: “The constitution does not require discrimination on the basis of sex. The only question is whether it prohibits it. It doesn’t. Nobody ever thought that was what it meant. Nobody ever voted for that.”In one statement, Scalia unwittingly swept away over 200 years of obfuscation and sleight of hand. The equal protection clause of the 14th amendment won’t do. Title IX and Title VII are not enough. The Pregnancy Discrimination Act and the Violence Against Women Act and any other act, law or statute will not suffice. Why? Because those are ephemeral things, at the mercy of fickle states and changing political tides. You have only to look at the Lily Ledbetter debacle to see how easy it is to subvert the law if your intentions are not pure. The only thing that will suffice, is to include us in the constitution. It is the guarantee from one generation to the next that our rights cannot simply be abrogated at the whims of others or the fashion of the times. The time is now for women to use their voices and demand their due. We must seize the moment without equivocation. Without apology. With full knowledge that not only is this the right thing to do, it is what must be done.  “Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex,” the equal rights Amendment (ERA) says.  America stands at the precipice. Our systems are outdated and failing In 1982, despite enjoying the support of Presidents Nixon, Ford, and Carter, after being signed by both the House and Senate, as well as the president, and after decades of mimeographing, phone-treeing, protesting, marching, rallying, and mobilizing around ERA, tens of millions of American women were devastated when it fell three states short of ratification.The reasons given? Toilets, women in the military and gay rights. The real reason? Money: it would mean companies could no longer get away with paying women up to 40% less than men. America stands at the precipice. Our systems are outdated and failing. The rumblings can be heard from all quarters – the Occupy movement, Black Lives Matter – we are all part of the same rubric, the same growing resentment that comes from too much pressure being placed on the population in a disgraceful attempt to squeeze ever more profits out of our lives and labor. Something has to give.If we want change, we must stop gaslighting this generation. No matter how uncomfortable, we must inform them that our society has always seen women as less, treated them with less respect and dignity and exploited them and their bodies for profit at every turn. And it will always be that way unless we rise up and do something about it. Unless we transform the status quo of the nation. The Equal Rights Amendment is a matter of principle. It is who we say we are as a nation. It is the right thing to do and it needs to be done now. The fact that the death of Phyllis Schlafly coincides with the release of my documentary is fitting. What Schlafly represented and the ignorance she spread around the ERA must die with her as well.We owe this those who came before us, fought for decades and won us the vote. We owe this to our mothers and sisters who spent the 1960s and 70s protesting, marching and fighting. We owe this to the girls here and those not yet born. And most importantly, we owe this to ourselves. Because the bottom line is that until we, as women, truly value ourselves, individually and collectively, no one will ever value us. 