Born in Hertfordshire, Una Stubbs, 78, went to dance school at 14 and became a chorus girl at 16. In 1963, she starred with Cliff Richard in the film Summer Holiday; she was later cast in Till Death Us Do Part and Worzel Gummidge. Currently, she plays Mrs Hudson in Sherlock. Her new film, Golden Years, is released on 29 April. She is twice divorced and lives in London. When were you happiest?When I am painting.What is your greatest fear?Losing a child.What is your earliest memory?Scraping the paint off my cot with my new teeth.Which living person do you most admire, and why?My best friend, the choreographer Dougie Squires. Somebody once said his heart is like a hotel with hundreds of doors for everybody.What is the trait you most deplore in yourself?The constant anxiety.What is the trait you most deplore in others?Cruelty.What was your most embarrassing moment?Farting at a posh supper party with friends. There was a pause, then we all squealed with laughter.Property aside, what’s the most expensive thing you’ve bought?Margaret Howell clothing.What is your guiltiest pleasure?Refusing to go out on Saturdays so I can stay in and watch reality TV.What is the worst thing anyone’s ever said to you?“It’s not working, is it?” (about a relationship).What do you most dislike about your appearance?Gravity.If you could bring something extinct back to life, what would you choose?My father, who died 10 years ago.Which book changed your life?Crime And Punishment. I haven’t been educated really, and never imagined I’d read books like that. I read it 20 years ago and found it easy, so I thought, “I’m not so thick, after all.”What was the best kiss of your life?A sudden kiss from a grandchild.Which living person do you most despise?Tony Blair.Who would you invite to your dream dinner party?Van Gogh, to tell him what his paintings are going for now.Which words or phrases do you most overuse?“Sorry.”What has been your biggest disappointment?Never learning another language.If you could go back in time, where would you go? A walk around the streets of Dickensian London.How do you relax?A matinee at my local cinema.What is the closest you’ve come to death?Falling asleep at the wheel 35 years ago and ending up facing oncoming traffic in the fast lane. A lorry driver parked across the road, lifted me out, gave me a hug, moved my car and disappeared. I’d like to say thank you.Q&A: David Haye, boxer: ‘My guiltiest pleasure? Crisps, late at night’ What single thing would improve the quality of your life?A little balcony.What do you consider your greatest achievement?Bringing up my three sons.What song would you like played at your funeral?Moon River.What is the most important lesson life has taught you?Try to be kind.