R. Crumb, LondonSerena Williams’s serving arm stretches so far behind her that she’s close to patting her own behind with her racket. The pose also means that the tennis player’s chest is thrust forward. If this image – drawn by R. Crumb in 2002 and pictured here – feels overtly sexualised, then that’s because it is: his portraits of star sportswomen are lessons in objectification. Nor is anything less to be expected from the seasoned underground comix artist: he is way into his half-century preoccupation with sex, drugs and scatology. We should not let Crumb – or the viewer – off the hook by veiling this in irony, though. In another work, a female bodybuilder – all bulging thighs and rounded posterior – is described in a handwritten caption as “an inspiring vision to the artist”. Crumb is sincere in his ardour, knowing in his politics.David Zwirner, W1, Fri to 2 JunOBInto Boundless Space I Leap, CambridgeHis innovations included the unification of electromagnetic and light waves – the basis for a dizzying array of innovations – but Scottish scientist James Clerk Maxwell was also known to communicate his ideas through poetry and painting. “Into boundless space I leap” is one of his lines, and it provides the context for the artworks on show at this new research centre bearing his name. These include Rana Begum’s sculpture, Gustav Metzger’s fusion of physics and art, and the work of Laura Buckley, who perhaps owes the most to Maxwell’s breakthroughs. Without them, her large, abstract prints – created using a digital scanner – would not have been possible.University of Cambridge: Maxwell Centre, Sat to 2 JulOBDan Flavin, BirminghamYou might assume that Dan Flavin’s postwar light sculptures would look dated or, at best, quaint by now. While his abstract expressionist contemporaries were throwing both their paint and their weight around, Flavin was concerned with what he called “blank magic”, the almost numinous aura of entirely non-representational elements. His work suggests there might be something archetypal about the precise composition of primal geometries that works directly on our senses. Strips of cool white or glowing fluorescent lights are stacked vertically and horizontally to illuminate walls and corners, and that’s about all there is to it. Yet they still hold their own as works of considerable presence and subtle wit. The title of this enchanting exhibition is It Is What It Is And It Ain’t Nothing Else. Ikon Gallery, Wed to 26 JunRCConceptual Art In Britain 1964-1979, LondonMuch of the British conceptual art of the period this exhibition surveys has not aged all that well. In breaking the mould of what art could be and freeing the artist from the straightjacket of aestheticism – a radical undertaking at the time – these artists can come across as self-indulgent after all these years. Michael Craig-Martin’s An Oak Tree for example – a glass of water on a shelf, which the artist explains in an accompanying text he has transformed into a tree – now seems a little gimmicky. Dig a little deeper, however, as the curators have done here, and for every self-referential piece there is one that deals with a demanding social issue. These include Possession, Victor Burgin’s poster work on income inequality, and Post-Partum Document, Mary Kelly’s staggering visual diary of motherhood. Tate Britain, SW1, Tue to 29 AugOBSharon Hayes, LondonWhat do we gain when we engage in protest? This question is key to the work of Baltimore-born multimedia artist Sharon Hayes. In 2008, for example, the artist staged a series of performances at sites associated with free speech. There, she held up banners reproduced from archive documentation of past demonstrations, from “Who Approved the War In Vietnam?” to “Ratify The ERA Now!” – the rallying cry of those in favour of equal rights for women. While the artist is undoubtedly interested in the aims of social movements themselves, what comes to the fore is a quasi-sociological study into the dynamic of the protest group, the means by which a collection of individuals unite to espouse a common belief and the adverse effect this might have on individual expression. For this exhibition the artist has spent time in queer and feminist archives and – alongside a new six-monitor video work – will build an installation of hoardings and banners mimicking those encountered in the course of her research.Studio Voltaire, SW4, Fri to 5 JunOBKevin Harman, EdinburghKevin Harman has got himself involved with windows before. In 2009, when he decided to put a scaffolding pole through the window of Edinburgh’s Collective Gallery, the gallery took the up and coming artist to court. The window in question, along with related legal papers, is on display as an introduction to this latest exhibition. Always one for making do with found materials – usually filched from skips – Harman makes novel use here of large-scale double-glazing units. These he simply prises apart, fills with poured and dripped household paint, and reassembles across the gallery walls. As windows that you look at rather than through, these organic abstractions inescapably evoke the dream spaces of magic-lantern slides and stained-glass windows.Ingleby Gallery, to 6 May RCDouble Act: Art And Comedy, LiverpoolMaurice Doherty’s neon sign proclaiming “I Slept With The Curator To Get This Show” might gain an extra turn of wit when we learn that the work was especially commissioned for this willfully daft two-part exhibition. Curated by Common Culture, a collaborative artists’ group of refreshingly irreverent ingenuity, the show features 16 artists with a comic worldview ranging from slapstick to satire. Liverpool’s Bluecoat presents British art tricksters such as Sarah Lucas and Peter Finnemore, while the second part at the MAC in Belfast (6 May to 31 Jul) features disruptive international figures including Paul McCarthy and Erwin Wurm.The Bluecoat, Sat to 19 Jun OBThis article was amended on 11 April 2016 to correct Dan Flavin’s name.