Not much love may have been lost between the creators of the Great British Bake Off and the BBC but, as sure as eggs is eggs, their seven-year relationship cracked apart over cash. Love Productions have denied the suggestion that it moved the baking competition from the BBC to Channel 4 for “the biggest cheque”, but few industry insiders and analysts believe that any other reason was as important after news of the £25m deal emerged on Monday evening.Viewers will notice the consequences next series, and not just with the advertising breaks. The decision by Mel Giedroyc and Sue Perkins to walk away from the programme questions Channel 4’s negotiating nous.Although the deal had been negotiated separately from new contracts for its stars, it was to the BBC that the two women in particular felt they owed loyalty, despite making their names on Channel 4. The programme’s judges, Mary Berry and Paul Hollywood, were keeping their counsel on Tuesday night but they are expected to demand dramatically higher fees if they do agree to continue on the show for another three years.Bake Off is the BBC – and Britain – at its best | Letters This may not matter to Love Productions, but nevertheless the BBC’s loss of Bake Off could come to be seen as the moment when television in the UK became fully commercial: a moment when an independent production sector largely owned by huge multinational companies exerted its right to sell programmes started on the publicly funded BBC to the highest bidder.The Great British Bake Off disaster: why the BBC got burned It was not always like this: a series of former BBC executives such as Lorraine Heggessey took to the corporation’s airwaves to explain that, not that long ago, independent production companies were so grateful for the BBC’s backing and viewing figures that when it came to renegotiations they would very rarely sever links entirely. BBC negotiators, understood to include commercial director Bal Samra and deputy director general Anne Bulford, did not truly believe that a programme so British and so “quintessentially BBC” would be lost over a few million pounds. But the “considerable distance” between the two sides amounted to about £10m with the BBC’s final offer adding up to about £15m.In an internal email to staff, Love suggested Channel 4 would provide a better long-term home as the BBC was “not able to provide the necessary comfort for the future protection of such a distinctive and much-loved television series”. But questions remain whether Love has been shortsighted; had the show remained on the BBC, nobody would be asking questions about its longevity.Whatever the long-term future, a generous three-year deal for its most valuable asset would help Love meet any likely “earn out” targets from its 70% sale to Sky in 2014. Such purchases typically offer a payout after five years based on average of profits made in the previous three years. With Love’s new deal for Bake Off at £25m a year for one show, this should certainly help the company reach the maximum possible payout in 2019.What else worked in Channel 4’s favour? Love Productions founders, Richard McKerrow and Anna Beattie, started their careers there and the former’s relationship with the far more bureaucratic BBC is also said to have been worse than with the more commercial Channel 4. Known for successful food programmes – from Jamie Oliver to the Hemsley sisters – McKerrow himself worked with Gordon Ramsey and Nigel Slater while there.Channel 4 is also less nervous than the BBC about associated deals and is able to consider product placement, sponsorship deals and even ad revenue shares in a way the BBC is not. The BBC’s misguided announcement about the removal of recipes from its website could not have helped, despite being quickly overturned. One former BBC executive believes the failure to clinch a deal could relate to the corporation’s historic failure to appreciate popular entertainment rather than more high-end offerings such as drama and news. “No one is sitting around watching Huw Edwards’ greatest hits, but people are still buying boxed sets of Only Fools and Horses.”Such a view was underlined perhaps when the BBC itself described the £25m-a-year figure as “equivalent to several high-quality BBC1 dramas”.Negotiations between the BBC and Love went on for more than a year, with the corporation genuinely feeling that the production company owed it some loyalty after starting the programme on BBC2 and helping it become the most-watched programme of 2015. One senior BBC insider said Love had “behaved really badly ... unforgivably so ... And is this what Channel 4 is for?”The BBC’s new charter deal will mean that all future content is expected to be opened up to competition from independent producers as well as the newly created BBC Studios. The loss of Bake Off underlines how important owning the intellectual property rights to hit shows has become as the BBC spins off its own in-house production arm – unless the BBC can persuade all four stars to somehow stick around. 