Police in Lancashire have had to apologise after using too many puns in an appeal for information about the theft of eggs from a chicken sanctuary.The appeal, which included the word “eggstraordinary” and a promise to “scramble the troops”, offended the owner of Hedwig’s House chicken sanctuary in Hest Bank, a coastal village near Morecambe.Tina Wilkinson told local paper the Visitor she felt police had not taken the crime seriously after they posted the appeal on the Morecambe area Facebook page, along with a CCTV image of the egg thief, who struck on Saturday.The post said: “We are asking for assistance with an eggtraordinary crime! We need to identify the chap in the picture who we need to speak to regarding the theft of eggs. We have scrambled the troops to try our best to detect this crime!! We can’t be having people ducking justice and this is the kind of crime that offenders need to shell out at court when they get fined! All joking aside if you know this guy let us know on 101 or 01524 596986 and quote crime ref WB1602616. The theft of eggs occurred at 11:30 on 02/04/16 at Hest Bank Morecambe. Thank you yolks.......sorry I mean folks !!”Wilkinson told the Visitor: “I feel like they made me a laughing stock and they never mentioned the sanctuary in their post. After the post went up, people were saying that even the police thought I was a joke. I was very upset and felt like giving up the charity.”She added: “I probably will carry on with the charity but I will have to see how the fundraising goes. The chickens, ducks, and turkeys have saved me, as much as I save them.”On Wednesday, Insp Kirstie Banks-Lyon apologised, writing on Facebook: “Yesterday Morecambe area police posted a CCTV still of a suspect we would like to speak to in relation to the theft of some eggs.“It has now been brought to our attention that the humour used in this post has not been interpreted by all with the original intention in mind, which was to try and identify the offender, and we would like to apologise for any offence that this has caused.“Although some may question the value of the theft, all money raised from the sale of eggs is used to raise much-needed funds for the sanctuary. Eight boxes of eggs need to be sold to buy one bag of food. This is before any other costs are met. Meeting these costs is a serious business, and we have spoken to the victim and apologised in person for portraying this in a lighthearted manner.” Police have yet to trace the thief and have asked the public to call 101 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111 if they have any information.