Marcella Backland (Anna Friel) lies bruised and distraught in a bathtub, her face caked gratuitously in blood. Why she’s in a such a bad way is unclear, but we do know that, shortly before her soak, she paid a visit to the mistress of her estranged husband. We also know, from the fact that she hurled said husband, Jason, down the stairs a few weeks ago, that she’s prone to violence. Backland says she couldn’t remember that incident, and you suspect she might not recall this one either, but it stands to reason that something unpleasant has gone down and the finger’s pointing firmly at her. The twist? Backland is the person who’d usually be investigating this kind of domestic disturbance. A recent returnee to the Metropolitan police’s murder squad in London after a career break, she is, as the promo blurb for ITV’s new detective drama puts it, both “detective”, “witness” and “suspect”. Very suspect, in fact.It’s safe to say that Marcella is different from the cosy detective dramas the channel is known for. We’re a long way from Grantchester, Toto. Instead, Marcella sits closer to the clean lines, fragmented storytelling and tortured protagonists of the Scandi-crime genre, which shouldn’t come as too much of a surprise given that it has been created by Hans Rosenfeldt, Jürgen Klopp lookalike and creator of The Bridge.Comparisons with that “saga” (geddit!) are almost impossible to avoid, and it must be said that, while these are early days for Marcella, it’s a long way off the quality of Rosenfeldt’s earlier work. This was an uneven hour of television, struggling under the weight of its multi-stranded storyline – I don’t know about anyone else but I’m already entirely uninterested by the secondary plot involving Marcella’s husband’s construction company – and featuring clunky dialogue and characterisation. There’s also a lot that feels overly familiar: Marcella butting heads with her hard-nosed commanding officer, a serial killer with a unique calling card, the living room wall covered in news clippings and pictures of possible leads. At a time where Line Of Duty manages to produce utterly gripping drama that’s almost entirely based in procedure rather than personality, the “lone-wolf cop called back for one last investigation” trope feels more than a little dated.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Friel’s performance teeters permanently on the brink of ridiculousness. Photograph: ITV PLCSo why, seconds after this first episode finished, did I want to launch into the next? Much of it has to do with Friel, who manages to imbue that old dual personality cliche (hyper-competent cop, complete mess at home) with a sense of scratchy, intense vulnerability. It’s a performance that teeters permanently on the brink of ridiculousness – within minutes she’s bashing in her husband’s car with a golf club, for crying out loud – but one that never quite topples over. I’m looking forward to seeing more of it over the next eight weeks.Detective. Witness. Suspect.So what do we know about our maverick detective? Marcella left the Met’s murder squad in 2005 to raise her family. That this break came around the time the case of the Grove Park killer went cold seems more than a little coincidental. The fact that, 11 years later, when the serial killings start up again and the Met come knocking, Marcella is able to recall with alarming clarity the details of the original murders, suggests both an uncanny gift for retaining detail and that this is a case she’s been unable to shake. Marcella has some teething troubles on her return to the force. The main one is that the rest of her team seem to intensely dislike her, in particular her direct superior DI Rav Sangha. Only her previous boss, DCI Laura Porter, seems to actually think Marcella’s worth persisting with, suggesting to Rav that he give her “a long leash”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Marcella’s soon-to-be-ex-husband Jason Summers (Nicholas Pinnock), who got hurled down the stairs by her a few weeks ago.Meanwhile, Marcella’s family life is nothing short of a disaster. Her husband is leaving her after a 15-year marriage and she’s visibly struggling to cope: as well as the instances with the golf clubs and the flight of stairs, we get numerous verbal references to how painful her breakup has been. “Maybe it’s the worst thing that ever happened to her”, she says when a friend of one of the Grove Park victims mentions that she was constantly referencing her divorce. It’s hard not to be disappointed that at the heart of Marcella’s dysfunctionality is something as prosaic as heartbreak over a man. Far more intriguing are the blackouts that affect Marcella during those two climactic moments: the attack on Jason and the incident with the woman Jason seems to be having an affair with, Grace Gordon. What’s Marcella’s problem?Also under suspicion …Rather than a police procedural, Marcella looks – like Broadchurch before it – to be focused on a single case: the Grove Park killer, whose chosen method of murder is to bind the victim’s wrists together, tape a plastic bag over their head and let them slowly asphyxiate. Also of note is that the killer likes to take trophies from the scene of the crime.At the moment there are two suspects for this sadistic spree, both of them wronguns. Marcella’s preferred suspect, Peter Cullen, has an alibi, but one that crumbles under interrogation: he was in prison at the time of the latest killing, but it was an open prison where he was allowed out on day release, working in a bakery as part of the prison’s placement scheme. Not only that, but he was originally in prison for manslaughter having done in his wife. He also seems to have a creepy relationship with a young woman at the bakery, who he promises he can “help a lot more”. Oh, and then there was that moment at the end of this week’s episode where he responded to another inmate’s homophobic slurs by attacking him in a fashion almost identical to the Grove Park killer’s modus operandi. That last detail, though, felt way too obvious a red herring for me.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The creepy culprit … Peter Cullen (Ian Puleston-Davies) with Maddy Stevenson (Laura Carmichael). Photograph: ITV PLCThe preferred suspect for the rest of Marcella’s team, meanwhile, is Clive Bonn, head of the imaginatively titled Bonn Electronics, who lives in Rome. Bonn was dating one of the original 2005 victims, and, while he has an alibi for those deaths, much is made of the fact that the killings stopped at the same time he moved to Rome. What’s more, one of the present-day victims, Carol Fincher, worked for Bonn’s company, was pictured with him at a work night out, and was later laid off by Bonn. Bonn claims he didn’t know Fincher, and that she was one of 50 people he let go – but we later see him deleting Fincher’s contact details from his internet dating profile, despite him being married.Before the end of the episode we witness another murder, and this time the victim is – curveball! – male. We watch the man (unknown, as far as I can tell, to the viewer) die slowly, agonisingly of asphyxiation, as the killer – his face obscured – slips off his watch. Probably best to keep an eye out for a gold Rolex in future episodes.Goings on elsewhereRunning parallel to this grimy police procedural business is what feels like a completely different show: a soapy family drama involving the Gibson family, owners of DTG Construction, the company Jason works for. Gibson matriarch and DTG CEO Sylvie is trying to push through a development in Lambeth, but faces opposition from her feckless stepson Henry, who is against the development on environmental grounds. Supporting Henry in this battle is Grace, Sylvie’s daughter, the aforementioned mistress of Jason, and the person Marcella confronted shortly before her breakdown in the tub. How central this internecine family squabbling is to Marcella’s main storyline remains to be seen, but at the moment it feels an unnecessary distraction.Even more tangential to the main plot is a storyline involving Cara, a webcam girl who robs from the people she meets on a casual dating app (again with the internet dating!). While Cara might take her clothes off online, she’s certifiably not a prostitute, as shown by the almighty kicking she gives a young man who propositions her in the street. All very entertaining, but we could have done with a bit more of a sense of what Cara has to do with the main storyline. Is she going to be roped into the Grove Park storyline? Or does she have something to do with the Gibson family? An estranged daughter perhaps?Notes and observationsI enjoyed Marcella and Mullan’s stand-off, probably the most intense scene in a bakery since Christopher had a set-to over over some Neapolitan loaves in the Sopranos. Good news for non-British viewers hoping to catch the show: Netflix have picked up the worldwide rights. Rosenfeldt isn’t the only Scandi-crime figure to make the jump to British TV: Birger Larsen, director of the Killing, was involved in Murder over on BBC2.The Guardian’s John Plunkett interviewed Friel and Rosenfeldt about the show. Apparently, things are going to get a lot more grisly, especially for a four-legged character ...