The Moorside, a drama billed by the BBC as the untold story behind the Shannon Matthews mystery, has its detractors, not least Shannon’s grandparents. They feel that, to a young woman who has been voluntarily under the care of a local authority since 2008, who has quite literally lost her identity and is having to navigate her teenage years with a false one, this raking over of the coals – her deliberate kidnapping by her mother and a male accomplice, in the hope of tabloid reward money – might have a deleterious effect.The first episode aired on Tuesday night. The producers, I’m sure, would argue that their consciences were clear. They showed a community that was, in the words of the local reverend, Kathy Robertson (speaking on the Today programme), “quite resilient, quite compassionate, coming together to help someone that was in need”. The film had nuance, opening not with the flinty-faced conspirators, but with the bitterly comic indignities of finding oneself in a parenting class, presented at the end with a certificate to prove that one’s conduct in one’s own intimate relationships met the standards of some strangers.All the characters, including Karen Matthews, are more sympathetically drawn than they were in the printed media at the time. In 2008, columnists asserted wild causations that culminated in Melanie Phillips blaming Shannon’s kidnapping on the introduction of child benefit in the 1970s (children equalled money; more children equalled more money, motherhood in the benefit classes – never mind for the moment that, at this point, everyone got child benefit – was shot through with greed, therefore it was only to be expected that mothers would kidnap their children and hide them under beds). As for Shannon’s right to grow into herself without the spectre of this bizarre and painful event haunting her from without as well as from within, what’s that, set against the right of millions to be mildly diverted by the dramatic reconstruction?They’re always really nice, TV people: they think the newspapers are the bad guys, while dramas and documentaries exist to give balance. They’re right, in a way: it is functionally impossible, if you engage seriously and creatively with any community, to paint a portrait as improbably two-dimensional, as baroquely unpleasant, as eerily dehumanised as anything the Daily Mail could come up with on any given Tuesday. I interviewed the series producer of Benefits Street, Kieran Smith, and he remarked: “There is a hysteria, in some sections of society, about anyone who is a benefit claimant. One of our aims in making the series was actually to redress that, for it not to be about people on benefits all being scroungers.” The excesses of poverty-stigma are so intense that even to say “not everyone on benefits is on the take” has become an act of decency. There was a time when a story that started “there was once a poor family … ” conjured up people who were hard-working, who were battling the odds, who deserved better. But now, it seems, the onus is on those who find themselves in poverty to prove that underneath it all they are normal human beings.The Moorside review – Sheridan Smith finds a new way into the familiar, awful Shannon Matthews story There are benefits dramas, benefits documentaries and benefits freak shows, of course: Channel 4 gives us what you might call the reversal of expectation, the one in which some people wash their kids’ faces and don’t smoke. Channel 5 is obsessed with the recipients of social security – churning out On Benefits, On the Sick, Britain’s Most Shameless Mum, with format spin-offs such as The Great British Benefits Handout, where you give a family all their benefits for the year, and then invite the viewer to laugh as they blow it on champagne. Naturally, in poverty porn as in regular porn, debasement comes in degrees.Yet I wonder what it all means for those whose incomes, for one reason or another, must be supplemented by the state, that their value to the culture is roughly that of wildlife: some programmes are classier and more respectful than others; some are more brazen (Rachel Johnson, trying to live on benefits for Famous, Rich and Hungry, described herself as being on a “poverty safari”); some outright invite us to see poor people as a separate species, with values, attachments, priorities and flaws that we, the legitimate, could never understand. But all of them invite us to make qualitative judgments, judgments that would sound nonsensical applied to another group, even with substantially more grounds (are all aristocrats lazy? Do all middle-class people have stinky fridges?).It is a culture in which, to be in receipt of state money (pensions excepted) is to be slightly less than an individual, slightly less than trustworthy, slightly less than upstanding, slightly less than a citizen. It is this, rather than a housing shortage or a low-wage crisis, that has generated the hatred of immigration that is most intense in deprived communities. When your own citizenship is pegged to your economic productivity, when your culture despises your kind while warmly embracing any given stranger who, by reason of their stage of life, can work longer hours, what sound and self-respecting response is there besides, “wait a second … I thought we were supposed to be countrymen? I thought we had our destiny yoked to the same mast?”New media gets all the credit for the creation of fervid rightwing attitudes yet it’s the old media doing all the work. Create all the online echo chambers you like, where people with false names can advocate euthanasia for those of cleft palate, it doesn’t amount to a hill of hate against the mountain of mutual suspicion created by the mainstream fixation with the underclass at their very worst. Where are the Boys from the Blackstuffs, the “warm, humorous but ultimately tragic look[s] at the way economics affect ordinary people” (as the BFI described the show)? Where is the curiosity, the assumption of shared values, the voice that says: “I wonder if we could tell a more original story if we moved away from the scumbags-do-outrageous-things format?”We are currently being asked to accept, apparently without irony, that health tourists travel to the UK with the precise intention of having a heart attack. It sounds tangential, but it’s indicative of where attitudes are heading, and they’re moving fast. Everybody needs to think harder about what they’re peddling.