Inspiration lurks in the strangest places. Just ask New York duo Chairlift, who owe much of their new record to the sight of a gorilla-chested Sean Connery leaping around an Irish hillside in a red mankini. This was the scene that played out night after night in the duo’s South Williamsburg studio as they made their third album Moth while watching the grizzled Scot’s obscure 1974 caper Zardoz, found in a petrol station bargain bin, in which the former James Bond is chased by warring survivors and savages in a colourful, post-apocalypse world.Ramona Lisa: Arcadia review – beguiling side-project from Chairlift singer Chairlift can’t stop giggling about it. “It has the most stunning visuals, but the whole thing is falling apart,” says singer Caroline Polachek. “Patrick put a sticker on the remote control that said ‘Zardoz controller’ because that was all we ever watched on it. We must have played it on silent 500 times while making this record.” Listen to Moth with the film, she jokes, and “it probably matches shot for shot” – a nod to the Pink Floyd album that, according to stoner legend, syncs perfectly with The Wizard Of Oz.“Our own R&B-pop Dark Side Of The Moon?” quips Patrick Wimberly, Chairlift’s quieter, quirkier other half. “It might be!” Polachek replies.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest They continue like this for our entire interview, an endearing brother-and-sister-like back and forth that recalls Wayne and Garth from Wayne’s World if they’d been Urban Outfitted art students instead of metal slackers. Picking over vegan sushi in London, Polachek has plaited her hair similarly to Connery’s character, while Wimberly is wrapped in a denim jacket, bleary-eyed from staying up all night watching NFL.Chairlift: Something – review Perhaps there’s a greater reason why they were so drawn to Zardoz beyond its psychedelic trippiness. The film was Connery’s attempt to break type and not be defined by a mass-market smash. That’s something Chairlift have in common, too. The band formed in Colorado in 2005, then a trio completed by vocalist Caroline Polachek’s ex-boyfriend Aaron Pfenning, with the aim of making “background music for haunted houses”, full of avant-garde loops and “fright noises”. By 2009, though, they had become the reluctant poster kids for a popular wave of twee indie thanks to a ubiquitous Apple iPod Nano advert, which featured the cutesy bounce of their breakout song Bruises.Bruises flung Chairlift into the US and UK charts and their 2008 debut album Does You Inspire You was then rereleased on a major label. As they gazed out on billboards in oversized sweaters and faded denims, it was easy to dismiss them as just a fashion band with great cheekbones. But their new-found recognition was a misleading calling card for what the band was about. Elsewhere on Does You Inspire You lay moments of French disco (Le Flying Saucer Hat) or woozy 1980s electro worship (Planet Health). “I don’t like the idea that an artist has a responsibility to repeat themselves, like that song made you happy so we have to make you copies,” sighs Polachek.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: David LeveneSo Chairlift set about outrunning Bruises’ shadow. In the five years that followed, Polachek and Wimberly parted ways with Pfenning and released 2012’s Something, digging deeper into their 80s pop obsession with added shadowiness and gothic murder ballads. Then came – to the surprise of everyone, including Chairlift themselves – a collaboration with Beyoncé. The pair dusted her 2013 self-titled LP with atmospheric haze on the track No Angel, joining fellow Brooklyners Dev Hynes, Dirty Projectors and Grizzly Bear in an elite bracket of Knowles dynasty-approved underground artists blurring the borders between the mainstream and its fringes.New music: Chairlift – Amanaemonesia Working with a megastar confirmed that, even as indie artists, Chairlift could sneak a seat at pop’s top table. “The experience of having something we wrote on Beyoncé’s record was one of our boundaries being teared down,” agrees Wimberly (who is also currently working on Solange Knowles’s album). “Just because people call us indie musicians doesn’t mean that’s our potential.” Polachek says that their infiltration into Beyoncé’s camp made “us realise how porous and freaky pop music is. It’s not glamorous. It’s people sweating over MIDI controllers, not getting sleep, making something asymmetrical and weird that somehow ends on the radio.”In the two years since Beyoncé, they’ve experimented with new kinds of their own freaky, porous music, culminating in Moth. The album is indebted to and inspired by New York and soaks up the myriad influences that come from living in a modern multicultural city. Its lead single Ch-Ching is perhaps the best example of how they tie unusual sounds – oriental bells, 1970s saxophone – and the more familiar slink of R&B hooks and smoky synths into elegant knots. It was also accompanied by a striking video incorporating Jamaican dancehall choreography and Japanese costume design against the gritty backdrop of a New York industrial estate: a global-looking video for a global-sounding song.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: David LeveneEastern influences are notable all over the record, from Polymorphing, an ode to Tokyo pop-funker Tatsuro Yamashita, to Ottawa To Osaka, which features a spoken-word section in Japanese between lyrics about a “marmalade sky” and sliding strings. Were they nervous about dipping into other cultures’ artistic traditions for their own?“It’s a bit tricky making music and being on the internet in an age of conversation about cultural appropriation, when New York is such a stew of different backgrounds,” says Polachek, her tone suddenly turning serious. “But that is the reality of life around us. As an artist you just have to decide what your relationship with something is and be honest with where your inspiration’s coming from.” For Polachek, her attempt to criss-cross cultures is less of a homage and more about “being a student”. This might sound a little pseudy, but on Moth it rings sincere.Their sound may be increasingly international, but Chairlift know the best songs begin at home. Take Crying In Public, which nails the pressure of urban living with a lyric about breaking down on the Metro. “It’s a feeling many people who live in cities experience,” says Polachek. “When you’re completely consumed by bullshit anxieties, and someone who loves you calls you out in the most sweet and forgiving way and suddenly you’re hit with this thunderbolt of perspective.”Speaking of thunderbolts of perspective, there was a moment recently that reminded Polachek of how surreal her life is now, in the hinterland between indie and pop where Chairlift now operate. “I sorta crashed Taylor Swift’s birthday party last winter with Beyoncé,” she laughs. “We danced in the corner while Jay Z DJed Nirvana off an iPod.” Given the chance, though, the pair insist they’d rather be in their studio, no doubt in front of their beloved Zardoz. “Seriously, Connery looks like such a badass in it,” grins Wimberly, describing the former 007’s character – a man making it in a world where he doesn’t belong. You once could say the same of Chairlift and their accidental breach of the mainstream. But now they’re acting well at home.Moth is out on 22 January on Columbia Records      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: David Levene