Millennials are less likely to be having sex than young adults were 30 years ago, according to a survey of almost 27,000 people.The research, conducted in the US, found that the percentage of young adults aged between 20 and 24 who reported having no sexual partner after the age of 18 increased from 6% among those born in the 1960s, to 15% of young adults born in the 1990s. Large number of young people experience sex problems, study finds Ryne Sherman at Florida Atlantic University, who is a co-author of the research, said it goes against popular notions that the internet has made casual sexual encounters more common.“You would expect, based on the popular notion that with apps such as Tinder, it’s a group that is looking for hook-ups and not long-term relationships,” said Sherman. “[But] what we are seeing is this group is less likely to hook-up, so to speak, than previous generations.”Published in the journal Archives of Sexual Behaviour by researchers from three US universities, the study involved the analysis of data collected through the nationwide General Social Survey that has asked US adults about their sexual behaviour almost every year since 1989. The results reveal that young adults aged between 20 and 24 and born in the 1990s were more than twice as likely to report that they had had no sexual partners since the age of 18 than young adults of the same age born in the 1960s. Just over 15% of the 90s-born group reported that they had not had sex since they turned 18, compared to almost 12% of those born in the 1970s or 1980s. For those born in the 60s the figure was just over 6%.The authors say the trend is primarily due to a so-called cohort effect, meaning that sexual behaviour appears to have changed between generations. Further analysis, taking into account the age of the participants, year of the survey, and looking at all participants older than 18, provided further insights, with a shift towards increasing abstinence seen among all adults since the 1960s. The shift was greater for white individuals, those who had not gone to university, and those who attended religious services. The trend was also greater for women than for men: the authors found that 2.3% of women born in the 1960s are sexually inactive, compared to 5.4% of those born in the 1990s. That, the authors suggest, could in part be down to a rise in so-called virginity pledges as well as concerns about social stigma. “Americans are now strikingly more accepting of premarital sex, but more of those born in the 1990s in particular are nevertheless foregoing sex during young adulthood,” the authors note. “The new sexual revolution has apparently left behind a larger segment of the generation than first thought.”While Sherman pointed out that it is possible that individuals may have had sex before 18, but then remained abstinent after, he believes there could be a simpler interpretation. “What it probably means is there are more young people who are virgins than young people who were virgins in the past,” he said.While the study itself did not examine why young people today are more abstinent than in the past, the authors suggest the trend could be down to myriad factors. Among them, they propose that young people are living at home for longer, potentially stifling their sex life, while a rise in video games, online services for TV shows and movies such as Netflix, as well as the internet in general could be offering them an alternative way to spend time. What’s more, it is possible that hook-ups might involve modes of behaviour other than sex itself, while easy access to pornography could also be playing a role. “Access to pornography may be able to relieve sex drive,” said Sherman.But another factor, says Sherman, could be that the way in which people interpret questions asked in the survey has changed. “Young people in the 1950s, when they were asked if you had a sexual partner, [might] say ‘oh oral sex, that counts’, whereas young people today might say ‘oh no that doesn’t count because I didn’t actually have sexual intercourse’,” he said. Debra Hauser, president of the US non-profit organisation Advocates for Youth said: “It is fantastic that young people have the opportunity to make informed personal decisions about their sexual health an well-being. This slight decline in sexual activity among young adults is accompanied by information from other studies that more young people also report their first sex being wanted sex.” Cath Mercer of University College, London, lead analyst for the National Survey of Sexual Attitudes and Lifestyles, said similar data for Britain was still under analysis, but other trends hint at changing attitudes.Millennials don’t have sex? Of course we don’t | Daisy Buchanan  “In Britain we have seen a decline in the age at first sex between those born in the 1950s and 1990s but around one in five 16-24 year olds don’t report a sexual partner, challenging the stereotype that all young people are sexually active and from a young age,” she said. “It’s also worth noting that young people may be more comfortable reporting sexual inactivity and inexperience than older generations.” Clare Murphy, director of external affairs at the British Pregnancy Advisory Service, described the research as “fascinating,” adding that it highlighted the disconnect between the sexualised nature of society and the reality of people’s lives. “ In the UK, teenage pregnancy has declined dramatically in recent years – and this may well be the consequence of reduced sexual activity, as well as better education in sexual health and access to contraceptive services,” she said, adding that the cost of housing and drop in alcohol consumption among younger age groups could also be at play. “The trends identified in this study may well be mirrored in the UK, and more research in this area would help us better understand changing patterns of behaviour among young adults,” she said.