In her new book, Anka Muhlstein includes a quote that could annihilate her whole project in a puff of ink and paint. It’s from the art criticism of Guy de Maupassant: “Is it enough to see a locomotive in action to know everything an engineer knows? Well, critics think they know well enough because they have seen a lot of trains go past, trains or paintings if you will.”Emile Zola – on the run in Upper Norwood A lot of paintings go past in The Pen and the Brush, a study of French novelists who wrote about art throughout the 19th century. As Maupassant points out, writing about painting can be a thankless task if you are not a painter yourself, even if you are Balzac, Zola or Proust.Muhlstein is not a painter. She is, however, a Goncourt prize-winning biographer and the author of recent volumes on two of those giants, Balzac and Proust. She knows how writers work. Her new book is endlessly enjoyable, not least for the way it sends the reader scurrying to his own shelves – or Google Images – to gaze at the paintings discussed.“In the 19th century there was this sort of common subject and interests that linked writers and painters so intimately,” she says, parrying Maupassant. “I don’t see it nowadays. Very often the most interesting texts on painting now are texts by painters.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anka Muhlstein. ‘My advantage is I’m not an academic. I’m used to speaking about Proust to people who haven’t read Proust.’ Photograph: Bettina StraussA reading list based on Muhlstein’s book would be extensive: to take only the major works, The Unknown Masterpiece by Balzac, The Masterpiece by Zola, À Rebours by Huysmans, pretty much all of À la recherche du temps perdu by Proust. For committed readers, there is also Zola’s seminal art criticism, formed by close friendships with Cézanne and Manet and vital to the shaping of his fiction.“Balzac is interesting because he wrote more about painters than about painting,” Muhlstein continues, “but Zola did really write about painting and the effect on the way he wrote was so strong.“For Zola, the importance of light is amazing. I don’t know of any other writer who always takes pains to tell you where the light is coming from when he describes something, whatever is seen. You perhaps don’t notice it when you read it first – when I started rereading with that in mind, I did. At first you’re carried away by the story, he’s a real storyteller.”So is Muhlstein. Our interview, over coffee at the office of her publisher, is a pleasure. Maupassant, she says, made “a very strong statement. It takes a certain courage to practically insult critics and the public.” Once again, she laughs.It may take a certain courage to offer the 21st-century reading public a compact cultural history of 19th-century France, seen through its major writers and painters and the currents which washed and swirled between them. This is not mainstream.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Marcel Proust. Photograph: Roger Viollet/Getty ImagesMuhlstein, however, is a confident guide. Born in Paris in 1935, now married to the novelist Louis Begley and a resident in Manhattan and Long Island, she won her Goncourt prize for biography in 1996 and has twice been honoured by the Académie Française. Writing The Pen and the Brush was a return to source material: she reread of all the texts, she says, intensely aware that “culture evolves”.“I’m not sure that even a French public now would know all these novels the way I do,” she says. “I have a few tests, nieces, daughters in law, ‘Have you read this, have you read that,’ and very often it’s no, so I know you really have to keep in mind for whom you’re writing. “But my advantage is I’m not an academic. I’m used to speaking about Proust to people who haven’t read Proust. That’s very built inside me.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Honore de Balzac. Photograph: Corbis/Getty ImagesHence the course she is currently teaching, Proust I, at the Center for Fiction. Proust, she says, is “the one I’m most immersed in … Proust in a way is the richest because every time you reread him you discover things you had not paid attention to.“What I found fascinating was that though he was not interested at all in painters of his time, and famously said he didn’t understand anything about cubism, in his style you can see he has a sort of cubist eye, the way that he describes things from different points of view simultaneously.“A friend said he had a ‘multifaceted eye like a fly’, and it’s an amazing quote, and in a way that’s how Picasso looked at things, the profile and the face and the front and the back.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Portrait of Emile Zola, by Edouard Manet. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoAccordingly, Muhlstein seeks to address each side of her central question: how, and why, did 19th-century French writers write about painting? There is Balzac’s attempt to capture every aspect of The Human Comedy. There is Zola’s deep immersion in the art world, the beautiful painterly realism of his style, his rejection by the arbiters of taste. There is Maupassant’s sardonic wit, Huysmans’ retreat from the world, the restless eye of Proust. Each case study has plenty to say to the reader of today.It could be that to read The Pen and the Brush in 2017 is to temporarily shut one’s self away from troubling reality, a little like Des Esseintes in his study or Proust in his cork-lined bedroom. If so, so be it. There are worse places to lose an hour.As to the fundamental question raised by her subjects and her study of them, the glorious unknowability of great painting to those who do not paint, Muhlstein seems, finally, to concede the point. “Maupassant,” she says, “thought that painting was more advanced than literature because in painting there are so many nuances. “In language you don’t have 50 words for pink.”The Pen and the Brush: How Passion for Art Shaped Nineteenth-Century French Novels, is published in the US by Other Press.