 We are doing a project on fish in our nursery school and I wondered if you can recommend any really great books starring fish? While some love fish, many children and some adults are spooked by them, which makes it a good idea to find some entertaining and reassuring stories about them. Whether we really know anything about how they feel or think doesn’t matter when it comes to inventing characters for them, in fact that’s part of the fun. Anything goes!A fish, like any other living creature (as well as any character than an author cares to create) can be a hero or heroine in a story. And they can have adventures. The limitation is that they have to stay in water, which means that the extent of their activity is a bit restricted. However, the difference between a pond, a river, a lake or the whole wide sea is huge – and each can provide an interesting setting and a range of enemies suitable for a fishy adventure. But fish can be fun in stories even when they are not adventurous. Although not the absolute star of the story, one of the most engaging fish is the goldfish in Dr Seuss’s classic The Cat in the Hat. From the first “bump” as the Cat in the Hat makes his momentous appearance in the house, the goldfish is alert to the danger. “But our fish said, ‘No! No! Make that cat go away! Tell that Cat in the Hat You do NOT want to play. He should not be here. He should not be about. He should not be here when your mother is out!”’ And he adds a moralising and sensibly cautious note. But no one listens to the fish and soon his worst fears are borne out, as he is swept up as part of the cat’s first juggling act – with near disastrous results. Endlessly harping on at the wrongness of the Cat’s behaviour, the goldfish is an entertaining – and reassuring – commentator as he voices the alarm that some children will share at the intrusion and anarchy caused by the notorious Cat in the Hat. The Little Black Fish and other stories: Iranian illustrated children's books – in pictures In One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Blue Fish, Dr Seuss has created a cast of fish of all kinds. In his typically entertaining rhyming text, Dr Seuss gives each fish their own character. Apart from the fish of the title, there are black fish, old, fish, and new fish. And they can have all kinds of distinguishing features first in terms of ownership - “This one has a little star/ This one has a little car” – and then in characteristics “Some are sad, some are glad, and some are very, very bad.”In Julia Donaldson and Axel Scheffler’s Tiddler, the little fishy hero is not exactly bad but, as the subtitle The Storytelling Fish reveals, he does have the bad habit of telling exceptionally tall stories. Tiddler may be the smallest fish but he is never going to stop him seeing himself as the star of some very big adventures. Arriving late for school every day he comes up with some inventive excuses including meeting a mermaid with a treasure chest, being captured by a squid and going flying with a ray fish. Children love his tall stories and the repeated refrains of “Oh, no, he didn’t” and “Oh, yes, he did”. And they’ll love the gruffalo fish hidden in the story. Like Tiddler, Swimmy, the eponymous hero of Leo Leonni’s Swimmy is also a small fish. And he is clever, too, which enables him to come up with a plan to save all his friends. All the fish are red except for Swimmy who is “as black as a mussel shell”. When a great big fish swallows up all the red fish, Swimmy is left alone in the world. Bravely, he sets out to explore and soon he is wondering at the glories of the sea bed, including the sea anemones like pink palm trees. When Swimmy finds a new shoal of red fish just like his old friends, he finds they are too scared to go out to play. Swimmy trains them to swim in formation so that they look like one big fish! Now they are safe anywhere they want to go. There’s magic in the fishy world of John Bush and Korky Paul’s The Fish that Could Wish. What fun the fish who can wish has making his wishes and getting what he wants. He wishes for a castle, a car, a horse and Spanish guitar. But, after a time, the fish wishes for something completely different; he wishes is could just be a normal fish. It may not have been a wise wish as, from that moment on, the fish is just a normal fish. But maybe he then had a happier life? There is a stern core of morality in Marcus Pfister’s stunning picture book The Rainbow Fish. The rainbow fish has scales that are all colours of the rainbow and he has silvery sparkly scales as well. Everyone knows he is “the most beautiful fish in the entire ocean”. But the rainbow fish is too proud of his beauty to play and too mean to share his beautiful scales when he is asked to. Soon, no fish will have anything to do with him and the rainbow fish becomes the loneliest fish in the ocean. Without anyone to admire his glorious colours they seem pointless. The rainbow fish has to learn how to behave better to fit in with everyone else around him. It seems fish, like people, can have characters and personalities and they can learn to be better!For fishy facts, Think of an Eel by Karen Wallace is a gorgeous non-fiction title from Walker Books’ read and Wonder series. Lastly don’t miss Jon Klassen’s wonderful This Is Not My Hat, which explores fishy revenge, it’s a very dark tale which children love, and won the Kate Greenaway medal in 2014. See our gallery exploring more here. If you have great fishy book recommendations let us know on Twitter @GdnChildrensBks or by emailing childrens.books@theguardian.com and we’ll add your ideas to this blog. You can use the same email address to ASK the Book Doctor a books related question.Zoe Toft (@playbythebook)Another fab fish book! Just joyous! https://t.co/59VpLR7qE7 @GdnChildrensBks pic.twitter.com/uMGaelEWBpJanuary 18, 2016Ilana, via emailI wanted to point out that Leo Lionni’s brilliant Fish is Fish isn’t there! He’s amazing (to remember if anyone asks about birds or mice too, of course!)Backyard Larder (@BackyardLarder)@GuardianBooks @GdnChildrensBks We had enormous fun with Donald and the Singing Fish (no words) https://t.co/cb4E6L47FqJanuary 18, 2016Lorraine Inglis (@LorraineInglisD)@playbythebook @GdnChildrensBks how about 'A Fishy Tail' written by @BarbaraSpencerO & designed by me! pic.twitter.com/jtZyIsSzcKJanuary 18, 2016