“I was talking to one of my strangers about how I hadn’t met any weirdos yet, and she leaned forward and went ‘My coat is made of human hair’. And I thought ‘Yes! Brilliant!’.”Michael Chapman is the man who met 100 strangers off the internet and lived to tell the tale. The British photographer has spent the last year snapping volunteers sourced through social network Twitter, for a project called We Met as Strangers that he has published online.The project’s rules: they had to be genuine strangers who he’d never met before in person; they had to volunteer rather than be asked to take part; they would choose the location for their shoot; and Chapman wouldn’t tell them how to pose.“I’d go for a coffee with them first just for safety: when you’re meeting someone offline you want to meet them somewhere public. Not in their plastic-sheeted room,” laughs Chapman, who admits that some elements of the project may sound risky.“One person chose a graveyard as their location to be photographed, and another of my strangers picked me up from the station, took me to his house and then drove me to the middle of a wood to photograph him,” he says.“I knew somebody that knew him in real life, so I knew that it was fine. I still think I would have done it if not, but I probably would have asked for his numberplate in advance …”We Met As Strangers started in late 2014 when Chapman posted a tweet looking for volunteers. He wanted to explore the fleeting connections that happen between strangers on Twitter, as well as finding out whether people’s online personas differed from how they were in the real world.“You might have a fun interaction with someone and then they disappear off again into the nether unless you follow them. It started me thinking what would happen if I met those people in real life: would they be exactly the same as their tweets?” he says.“Quite often with social media, I think people aren’t being themselves, or at least are thinking carefully about what they’re posting: showing the best bits like a highlights reel? So I decided to meet some people off Twitter, photograph them and see what happened.”At first only three people signed up, but soon Chapman had 10 strangers, then 30, then 50 and ultimately 100 – with 45 more on a waiting list as word spread about the project.  ‘All 100 people were lovely. Nobody was completely different to their Twitter persona’ Photograph: M J ChapmanThe process for each shoot was similar: an initial chat over coffee; photographs on location; then Chapman would edit 5-10 shots and send them to the subject who could veto any of them; before he picked the final photo to add to the project.“These weren’t people who were used to being photographed. While I might have a picture of them smiling with their teeth showing, they might hate their teeth, so that’s why I let them veto the photos,” he says.“A few people I photographed had body issues: they weren’t comfortable with the way they looked. When they said that to me, inside I was like ‘What the hell are you doing having your picture taken?!’ But digging a bit deeper, it transpired they were doing this as a step towards feeling a bit better about themselves. Almost therapeutic.”The shortest shoot was 20 minutes and the longest three hours, with locations ranging from the top of a Canary Wharf office tower to Chapman’s own back garden.The photographer says that reaction to the project has been very positive: the subjects would retweet their main photo and often share some of the unpicked ones online. He admits that he did receive some criticism on the lack of diversity within his subjects.“It was very representative of my Twitter demographic. To start with, it was all bearded gay men. Then I had a couple of ladies come in, which broadened it out a bit: I think because women felt more comfortable meeting somebody once they’d seen you’d met somebody that they’d met already,” says Chapman.“I did get quite a bit of criticism from people messaging me saying ‘It’s very white’. I was aware of those issues: I think it’s 70 men against 30 women, two of them are straight. But I didn’t want to start saying ‘I’m only going to sign up straight men or people with an ethnicity’ because that would go against the ethos of the project. I’d made myself that rule that I couldn’t ask people to take part: they had to volunteer.”In fact, the demographics of Chapman’s 100-person sample are interesting for that reason: an illustration of the “filter bubble” of his extended network on Twitter that reflects the fact that for many users, the demographics of the people they follow (and the people they follow) may be less diverse than they would like to think.“I class myself as not having any problem with women. I don’t consider myself a racist. I don’t have a problem with anyone really. But the side-effect of this project has been that I actually broadened my horizons: I started following loads more women on Twitter for example,” says Chapman.  ‘These weren’t people who were used to being photographed’ Photograph: M J Chapman“Quite a few people that I photographed have mental health issues, and following them has also really opened my eyes to this other side of Twitter, where people are using it to discuss these issues,” he adds.“I’d been just following people who tweeted things I found funny – ‘Oh, he tweets funny cat photos, I’ll follow him’. But you realise there’s this richness to following people who have a different life. As long as they’re not tweeting hateful things or retweeting Katie Hopkins articles ...”Chapman admits to being relieved that his previous, subconscious belief that “people off the internet were a bit weird” was disproved by the project, even if he was slightly disappointed too.“I was expecting to encounter a weirdo or somebody that I didn’t get on with, or who was quite aggressive. A small part of me was interested to see, if I’d met somebody like that, how that photo would have looked. Would it have stood out?” he says.“But all 100 people were lovely. Nobody was completely different to their persona on Twitter either: ‘I’d like you to photograph me in my Nazi dungeon…’ Although as I said, there was a tiny part of me that would have found that quite fascinating.”With the project now finished, Chapman is planning his next moves: He’s not planning to repeat the project in this form, but may in 2016 try a different theme while still sourcing the subjects via Twitter.He also wants to get as many of the first project’s 100 strangers together for a drink, having been delighted by the way they have shared and used their photos on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and even LinkedIn and Grindr. He hopes it’s a validation of the efforts he made to make the process unintimidating for his subjects.“For me, the paramount thing was making people feel comfortable,” he says. “Because if you distil it to its base level, I am a strange man off the internet asking to take their picture.”