In the days before live shows were observed on an iPad held aloft by the person two rows in front of you, gigs would often pass undocumented by a digital lens. A benefit for those witnessing the show first hand, perhaps, but not helpful when it comes to chronicling some of music history’s most pivotal performances. Now, Endeavour London, a publishing division of Getty Images, has teamed up with the live music subscription service Jukely to search for missing images of some of the most significant gigs. The campaign, launched earlier this month, calls on the public to scour attics, garages and boxes under the bed for photographs that can fill in the gaps. Do you have any sacred pictures of these lost concerts? Below are is Getty’s hit list.Nick Drake performing live – anywhere Drake’s severe stage fright and depression meant he failed to achieve commercial success during his tragically short life. He is thought to have given fewer than 20 live performances before dying from an overdose at the age of 26, and although it is known he played at venues such as the Roundhouse in London, Birmingham Town Hall and the Goodwill to All pub in Middlesex, there are no known photographs of these gigs.Pink Floyd at the 14 Hour Technicolour Dream in the Alexandra Palace, London, 29 April 1967 Despite having only released their debut single Arnold Layne a few months earlier, Pink Floyd headlined all-night fundraising concert for the International Times, following performances by Yoko Ono and Soft Machine. They played at about 5am after travelling from a gig in Holland. Photographs of the show have never been unearthed.Otis Redding at the Finsbury Park Astoria, London, 17 March 1967 Otis Redding played the Finsbury Park Astoria on the first night of the 17-date Stax/Volt revue in the UK. The tour coincided with the release of King & Queen, his album of duets with Carla Thomas, which was the final studio album he released before his death in a plane crash in December that year. Photographs of him playing in London that year do exist, but none from the Finsbury Park Astoria show have been confirmed.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Soul king … Otis Redding. Photograph: Gilles Pétard/RedfernsThe Who at the Marquee Club, London, 1965 Having only formed the year before and seen their popularity boosted by pirate radio stations, the Who played throughout their rise to fame in Soho’s Marquee Club in 1965. The band performed at the venue 21 times between the release of their first single, I Can’t Explain, in January and their debut album, My Generation, in December. Very few photos of them playing at the club have emerged, and none from 1965.The Tamla-Motown Revue tour of the UK, 1965 Uniting an almighty lineup of soul classics – the Supremes, Smokey Robinson and the Miracles, Stevie Wonder, Martha and the Vandellas and the Temptations – this show opened at Finsbury Park Astoria and played 21 venues over three weeks, including at the Liverpool Empire, the Wigan ABC and Glasgow Odeon, before the final date at Portsmouth Guildhall on 12 April. While there are press call shots of the artists, there are no archived images for any act other than the Supremes.Marc Bolan at the first Glastonbury festival, 1970 In 1970, Marc Bolan was just coming to public attention as the lead singer of T Rex. It was as a solo artist, however, that he replaced the Kinks last minute at the first Glastonbury festival (tickets cost £1 and included a pint of milk), because he happened to be travelling past Worthy Farm on his way to play Butlin’s in Minehead. Though there are photos of the festival, which was considerably smaller-in-scale than it is today, there are no known photographs of his set.Sex Pistols at Saint Martin’s School of Art, London, 6 November 1975  The Sex Pistols played one of the most infamous first gigs of Britain’s rock’n’roll elite, getting through only 20 minutes of their first public set before the plug was pulled by a member of Bazooka Joe, the band they were supporting, leading to an onstage altercation. According to reports, the set was cut short due to the fact that the crowd packed into the tiny gig space thought the Sex Pistols were “rubbish”. Many anniversary celebrations of this gig have occurred, but no known photographs of the original exist.Radiohead’s first gig at the Jericho Tavern, Oxford, 1986  In the early 80s, On a Friday – as Radiohead were known at the time – were familiar faces on the Oxford party scene, but they had yet to play in a conventional venue. Their public debut was in front of a small crowd at the Jericho Tavern. They would continue to gig at the Jericho, this eventually paying off by being discovered by producer Chris Hufford at a 1991 show there, leading them to record a demo and sign to EMI. Due to the fact that the first show was sparsely attended, a photo of the night has yet to surface.If you have found photographs of one of the events above, or have located other interesting images of the history of British live music, enter your submission at jukely.com.