Fans of Elena Ferrante will greet news that her Neapolitan novels are being made into a TV show with equal parts excitement and apprehension. Reassuringly, the people who adapted Roberto Saviano’s Gomorrah for TV are involved, as is the reclusive author herself. The four books will each become a series of eight episodes, and the show will be in Italian, with Italian actors – anything else would be wildly inauthentic. While we wait, here are some English-speaking fantasy casting suggestions (which might come in handy for the inevitable Hollywood remake). To keep this as spoiler-free as possible, the below focuses only on the first book, My Brilliant Friend.Lenù (Elena Greco)The narrator of the book, in all likelihood modelled on Ferrante herself, is a masterful literary creation. Full of contradictions – her self-doubt and arrogance are at constant war with each other – she perfectly captures the complexities of being a young woman. The actor who plays her needs to be pretty, serious and studious, with a facility for introspection: step forward, Carey Mulligan.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Austere beauty’: Stacy Martin would make a fine Lila. Photograph: Anthony Devlin/PALila (Raffaella Cerullo)This is the crucial casting decision on which everything else hangs. Lila (Lina to everyone else) is a razor-sharp girl whom Lenù idolises; their relationship over the decades is the heart of the story. Brunettes: Eva Green seems too mopey, Alicia Vikander too nice, Megan Fox too flashy. The solution? Young Winona Ryder lookalike Stacy Martin, with her thin and austere beauty and dramatic face angles. From her star-making turn in Lars von Trier’s Nymphomaniac, the French-English actor looks like she could embody Lila’s intense, no-bullshit attitude, effortless seduction powers, and, crucially, brains. You can just picture her doing Lila’s trademark “eye narrowing”.Maestra OlivieroThe girls’ primary school teacher notices Lila’s brilliance, but when her parents take her out of school she transfers her attentions to Lenù. Olivia Colman’s motherly-but-stern-when-needed demeanour would be perfect.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Eminently hateable’: Dave Franco could play Marcello. Photograph: Jim Smeal/BEI/ShutterstockMarcello SolaraFor this young, wealthy mafioso you’d need someone handsome (and knows it) and eminently hateable. This would have James Franco written all over it if he were a decade younger; thankfully his younger brother Dave Franco is also an actor, so he can step in.Stefano CarracciThe son of the terrifying Don Achille, “the ogre of fairytales”, Stefano takes over the family’s prosperous grocery store. He is serious-minded, rational and focused on his family’s wellbeing, yet there is an undercurrent of violence in the Carraccis’ history. Whiplash’s Miles Teller combines that air of solid reassurance with a hint of danger.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Possibly slightly smarmy’: Penn Badgley. Photograph: Billy Farrell Agency/Rex FeatuNino SarratoreCurly black hair, intellectual pretensions, possibly slightly smarmy: Gossip Girl’s Penn Badgley fits the bill for Nino, son of the duplicitous poet and railroad worker Donato Sarratore.