Sarah Biss 29, New Zealand, advertising account director      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sarah Biss. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the GuardianWhat are you wearing? The boots are Hunter, the dress is Topshop and the sunglasses are from Anthropologie. I’ve no idea how I’ve stayed clean. It might be a bit optimistic, but I’m going with it. For now.Did you vote? I’m from New Zealand so I couldn’t vote, but if I could have, I would have stayed in. Obviously. It won’t really affect me staying here, but I am very sad. And surprised. It feels like something that is dividing generations.Tom Horn27, London, ‘charity stuff’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tom Horn. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the GuardianWhat are you wearing? No, the silk jacket isn’t Gucci. I got it from Festival No 6. I cut the jeans off just before I got here. The necklace came from Egypt.Did you vote? I don’t want to talk about the vote! No, I didn’t vote. If I had, I would have voted in.Lara Swansbury32, London, learning and education at the Tower of London      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lara Swansbury. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the GuardianWhat are you wearing? The dress is from a vintage shop in Brighton and the swimsuit is TK Maxx. It’s actually fine with the loos, you just sort of yank it around. The bag is from TSPTR and the scarf is from Ghana – my auntie lives there.Did you vote? I voted remain. I woke up, looked at my phone and rang my dad. I feel really sad, really disappointed, but, you know, sometimes things have to get worse before they get better. There’s been a lot of lethargy among my peers and it’s good to realise sometimes things don’t go our way. And that you simply have to vote.Liam O’Connor59, Andorra, retired ski instructor      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Liam O’Connor. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the GuardianWhat are you wearing? This is a blizzard jacket I used to wear in the snow. Yes, it’s sort of like a dress, but I have clothes underneath. I’m on-trend? Ha!Did you vote? I actually voted out. I knew it would be close, so I stayed up to see what was happening. I’m pleased, yes.Matthew Ockan25, London, chemist      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Matthew Ockan. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the GuardianWhat are you wearing? I’m here because my friend’s getting married, hence the bowtie – it’s from Amazon. These are Dunlop wellies, not Hunter, the shorts are from H&M, the shirt is Zara and the sunglasses are Ray-Bans. Real ones.Did you vote? I voted remain. I found out [the result] because people were shouting about it in the tents around me. It feels like a horrible dream.Ree Murrell23, London, works for English Pen      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ree Murrell. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the GuardianWhat are you wearing? I first came to Glastonbury when I was 16 – I love it. I came prepared with my Hunter wellies – everything else is from Beyond Retro, and I think the top is a kid’s one from a charity shop. I found the scarf in a lady’s house. That sounds weirder than it is.Did you vote? I voted remain. Of course. My boyfriend woke me up at 9am with a cup of tea and I just started sobbing. I’ve met lots of people here who didn’t vote. Some because they couldn’t be bothered, some whose postal votes didn’t work out in time.Suhan Rajkumar23, London via Reading, lawyer      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Suhan Rajkumar. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the GuardianWhat are you wearing? The dungarees are borrowed. They’re from eBay. The T-shirt is American Apparel. The whole thing is perfect for the loos – they have a zip where I need one, and otherwise they just slip off.Did you vote? I voted remain. I stayed up for a bit and I really thought we’d done it. How do I feel now? I’m smiling, but really I’m shocked, devastated and scared.Gaz Mayall58, Manchester      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gaz Mayall. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the GuardianWhat are you wearing? I bought the jacket in Hollywood. These are circus trousers. The shirt is from a car boot sale and the tie is from a Glaswegian charity shop. The hat is from Nevada and the stick is made from a red deer antler. It’s very durable.Did you vote? Yes and I voted out. Why? I’m with the fishermen and the farmers. I’m staying in a little caravan which doesn’t look like much from the outside but is like Las Vegas inside. I found out [the result] at midday from listening to my wind-up radio. How do I feel today? A little smug, if I’m honest.Simon Panrucker30, Bristol, composer      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Simon Panrucker. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the GuardianWhat are you wearing? I’m wearing Dunlop wellies, DC shorts – no, I don’t skate – and an Adidas tracksuit top. I’m colour-blocking?Did you vote? Yes, I voted remain. I’m surprised and now just pretty bummed out. How can I not be?Coralie M22, London, English student      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Coralie M. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the GuardianWhat are you wearing? The boots are from DM, the socks are Claire’s Accessories and there’s a Lonsdale jacket. The bag is from Asos. Sportswear is good for the mud, but I wear it all the time.Did you vote? I’m not allowed to vote because I’m second-generation French – I have a French passport. I’m worried for so many reasons, but also my father lives in Italy so I worry how it will affect him. I’m angry because, if I could have voted, I would have voted in.Mae Fallis23, London via Devon, publishing      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mae Fallis. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the GuardianWhat are you wearing? I’m wearing DMs but they’re so muddy they look like wellies. The skirt is Adidas – I got them to tailor it shorter. The top is Versace from a car boot sale, and the Adidas bag is from eBay. This is my look back home, too. I’m actually working here, so I’ve no idea how I look clean.Did you vote? I’ve been here since Tuesday but don’t worry, I voted, I just did a postal vote. I voted remain. I’m just so sad. But I also think maybe this had to happen to wake people up. I just hope it works.