Ramen is the ultimate comfort food, but for something that seems so simple – it’s just broth, noodles and a few toppings, after all – it is quite involved. You could, of course, use ready-made noodles (many specialist Japanese and Asian food shops sell a wide range of both fresh and dried ramen noodles; failing that, use some thin Cantonese-style egg noodles, which you can get in any supermarket), though any self-respecting Japanese domestic cook will tell you that you can’t beat homemade (it’s no harder than fresh pasta). The broth is by far the most important element in any ramen: it’s what gives the dish its deep flavour. For today’s chicken ramen, for example, you make a simple stock, then concentrate it further. Don’t skip this second stage: it’s well worth the minimal extra effort, plus the smell of proper stock bubbling away in the kitchen beats a scented candle any day.Roast chicken ramenA great alternative to a Sunday roast. Don’t be put off by the long method: it is simple, if a bit time-consuming. Kansui is an agent that turns water alkaline, which, without going into too much science, is what gives Japanese noodles their characteristic elasticity, bite and golden hue. If you can’t find kansui, bake 20g sodium bicarbonate in a 200C oven for 45 minutes, until grainy (this turns it into sodium carbonate, a fine kansui substitute), and use 8g of that instead. The salt base is essentially the seasoning for the broth, and is best made at least a day in advance, to give the kombu a chance to work its umami magic. Serves four.For the noodles, to make 600g (or use ready-made)8g kansui (alkaline salts)8g sea salt175ml water500g strong flourFor the salt base1 tbsp sake1 tsp soy sauce1 5cm x 5cm sheet kombu (dried kelp)1 tsp mirin2 tsp rice vinegar25g sea salt75ml waterFor the broth2kg free-range chicken carcass (or wings and drumsticks)200g spring onions2 white onions, peeled and quartered200g fresh ginger, peeled and sliced thin 2 cloves garlic, peeled and sliced thin3 litres waterFor the toppings600g ramen noodles, homemade or readymade1 free-range chicken5g each salt and ground black pepper4 free-range eggs20ml rice vinegar1 litre water100g spring onions, trimmed, very finely shredded and washedStart with the noodles, though if you’re using ready-made, you can just bypass this bit. Stir the kansui and salt in the water, to dissolve. Put the flour in a food processor with the kneading blade attached, and turn on. Slowly add the kansui solution, and mix for eight minutes, until the dough has the texture of fairly dry crumble.Bring the dough into a ball, then divide into four. Working with one piece at a time, feed through a pasta machine, starting with the thickest setting and reducing the setting at each pass, until you have a 2mm-thick sheet. Pass through the thin spaghetti cutter on the machine and you will have perfect ramen noodles. Ideally, refrigerate them overnight: this helps to increase their elasticity. Put the salt base ingredients in a saucepan, slowly bring to a simmer, stirring to dissolve the salt, then turn off the heat and refrigerate, making sure the kombu is submerged.Put half the solid ingredients for the broth in a large pan, add all the water and bring to a very gentle simmer; do not let it boil. Cook for two hours, skimming off froth as it surfaces, then pass through a sieve. Return to the pan, add the remaining solids, return to a low simmer and cook for two hours more, skimming as required. Pass through a sieve, and you’ll now have a lovely, rich broth.Meanwhile, start on the toppings. Heat the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4. Season the chicken, roast in an oven tray for an hour or so, until cooked (pierce the thick part of the thigh with the tip of a sharp knife: if the juices run clear, it’s done), then rest for at least 20 minutes. Collect all the fat and juices from the tray.Poach the eggs in gently simmering water with the rice vinegar for three minutes, until the whites are set and the yolks nice and runny, then drain.Now you’re ready to serve: bear in mind that cooked noodles hate waiting around (the longer time passes, the less bite they will have), so you’ll have to be super-organised. Fill your largest pot with water and bring to a boil. Bring the broth back to a low simmer. Have ready four deep bowls, and pour a tablespoon of salt base into each. Carve the chicken into thin slices, ideally with some skin attached to each.If you’re using homemade noodles, set the timer to 40 seconds and drop half the noodles into the boiling water, so they separate; if you’re using readymade, cook them according to the packet instructions. Ladle 350ml of hot broth into two of the bowls. When the noodles are cooked, lift them out of the water with a fine sieve, shake dry and divide between the two bowls. Repeat with the remaining broth and noodles, then top each portion with a few slices of chicken, a poached egg and a scattering of spring onion. Drizzle a teaspoon of the reserved fat over each bowl and serve.Wild mushroom ramen      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ken Yamada’s wild mushroom ramen. Photograph: Louise Hagger for the Guardian. Food styling: Emily Kydd. Prop styling: Jennifer KayUsing the preceding recipe as a template, simply replace the chicken stock with a vegetable one and the chicken with fried mushrooms, and you’ll have yourself a glorious vegetarian ramen. Serves four.For the stock1 carrot, roughly chopped1 onion, peeled and roughly chopped1 stick celery, roughly chopped1 clove garlic, peeled and sliced thin100g fresh ginger, peeled and sliced thin120g spring onions100g shiitake (or portobello) mushrooms 3 litres waterFor the cooked topping400g mushrooms (shimeji, enoki, shiitake, king oyster and oyster, ideally)25g butterSalt and pepperThe weekend cook: Thomasina Miers’ recipes for plaice with potatoes, and chargrilled hispi cabbage Put the carrot, onion and celery in an oven tray and roast at 180C/350F/gas mark 4, until golden. Tip into a large pot, add all the other stock ingredients, bring to a low simmer, and leave to bubble gently, skimming occasionally, for two hours.Saute the mushrooms in butter, then season to taste.The rest of the process is exactly the same as for the chicken ramen – that is, salt base, broth, noodles, and the egg and spring onion topping.• Next week: Japanese salads and sides. Ken Yamada is executive chef/co-owner of Tonkotsu, Tsuru and Anzu.