A missing piece of a lost painting by René Magritte has been discovered in a British collection, three years after two more sections were found in the US and Sweden.The painting, called The Enchanted Pose, was exhibited in 1927 but then disappeared without trace. A black and white photo of it shows two almost identical female nudes side by side in a neoclassical style.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An x-ray of The Human Condition with outlines showing legs from The Enchanted Pose. Photograph: Norfolk Museums ServiceIt appears the Belgian artist, creator of some of the 20th century’s best-known images, cut up the 114cm by 162cm painting, perhaps because he needed canvases for a major exhibition in 1936. Only one section now remains missing.The lower right-hand quarter was found in Norwich Castle Museum & Art Gallery, it was announced on Thursday. It was hidden beneath another Magritte painting, The Human Condition, a painting-within-a-painting in which a painted mountain view on an easel blends almost seamlessly with a mountain view behind it. It is typical of Magritte’s enigmatic compositions that tease the eye and juxtapose unlikely objects, such as bowler hats and apples, in settings that play with the idea of reality and illusion.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Giorgia Bottinelli and Alice Tavares da Silva examine The Human Condition. Photograph: Norfolk Museums ServiceIn 2013, the Guardian reported that, to the excitement of art experts, x-rays and other imaging techniques had located two other sections of The Enchanted Pose beneath two other Magritte pictures.A head and torso were hidden under The Portrait, which depicts an eye on a slice of prosciutto, and feet were found beneath The Red Model, which portrays feet as surrealist boots. They hang in the Museum of Modern Art in New York (MoMA) and the Moderna Museet in Stockholm respectively.The Norwich painting is an oil on canvas measuring 54cm by 73cm. Each of the three over-painted pictures dates from 1935 and is roughly the same size.Magritte recalled in 1966 that the 1927 exhibition was his first to represent “truly … what I consider valuable … in my work”. It came shortly before the artist painted his famous pipe with the words “Ceci n’est pas une pipe” (This is not a pipe). The Enchanted Pose is reminiscent of Picasso’s nudes of the 1920s. Despite critical acclaim, it failed to sell and was returned to the artist after the exhibition.The Norwich Castle discovery came to light while Alice Tavares da Silva, a conservator who also works for the Hamilton Kerr Institute at the University of Cambridge, was studying the picture before its loan to the major Magritte retrospective at the Pompidou Centre in Paris, which opens this month.Once the picture’s frame had been removed, she noticed the edges had been painted over and round the stretcher in a way that was unrelated to the composition on the front. There were details, she later discovered, such as “a little bit of the blue sky”.Further research led her to a report by conservators at MoMA. The painting was then transferred to the Hamilton Kerr Institute to be x-rayed and studied further. The results confirmed initial suspicions. She describes the discovery as “hugely exciting”.The Human Condition was exhibited in London in 1936 as part of the International Surrealist Exhibition in Burlington Gardens. It was acquired in 1966 by Sir Robert Adeane, a passionate collector of contemporary art who had served as a trustee of the Tate. In 1995, as part of the acceptance in lieu scheme, The Human Condition was allocated to Norwich Castle.In a statement, Dr Giorgia Bottinelli, its curator of historic art, said: “All we need to discover now is where the fourth and final, upper-right hand quarter is. Then this exciting art world jigsaw puzzle will be complete.”