Lying in Sierra Leone's mineral-rich eastern belt, the Koidu Holdings diamond mine and others like it were once at the heart of the country's decade-long civil war. Six hours from the capital, Freetown, burned-out houses are testament to the conflict that coined the term "blood diamonds" as warring factions fought to control lucrative diamond fields.Now, the mine that served as a war chest for the rebels supplies the jeweller Tiffany's. It is at the heart of a remarkable turnaround that has lifted this nation of 5 million people to world-leading growth of 35% this year."When the mine began operating in 2002, there were still 16,000 peacekeepers in the country. From an investment perspective, it was, basically, how much money are you prepared to lose," said the Koidu Holdings chief executive, Jan Joubert, who persuaded investors to put down $16m (£10.4m) back then.Joubert, who came to Sierra Leone in 1995 with the now defunct South African mercenary outfit Executive Outcomes, said the company planned to raise $1bn on top of a $300m expansion programme, and boost production to about 500kg of gemstones annually.The government hopes the burgeoning success of wildcat explorers will pave the way for big multinationals with deep pockets, allowing Sierra Leone to haul itself into the ranks of middle-income countries such as South Africa or Mexico. "There is no doubt mining can transform Sierra Leone's fortunes," said the finance minister, Samura Kamara. "Mining is bringing in a one-off increase [in GDP] this year but we have also made tremendous progress in improving the atmosphere for investment generally, and we are seeing that trickle down."Other companies are pouring money into a sector once associated with drug-crazed warlords. The Aim-listed African Minerals claims that the world's biggest magnetite mining operation will earn the government $92bn in royalties over a decade or so. Meanwhile, London Mining, in which the commodities group Glencore has an "offtake", or supply agreement, plans to more than treble its iron ore yields within a decade.Signs of money flooding in on the back of the mining boom are evident. Where peacekeepers once stood guard on the outskirts of Freetown, tractors are clawing huge chunks of red earth to connect satellite towns to the capital, where Chinese companies are widening cramped colonial-era roads designed for horse-drawn carts. The country's white sand and rainforest-enclosed beaches remain largely empty amid a lack of tourism infrastructure, although the Hilton group plans to open a hotel here. And Sierra Leone has jumped 15 places to 141 in the World Bank's 2012 Doing Business rankings, ahead of its neighbours.But the government has to negotiate a fraught path. There is an immense skills gap after an entire generation was denied basic education during the war, and high expectations have strained mining companies' relationships with their hosts.Not for the first time, the police faced down a knot of protesters at the official opening of London Mining's Marampa mine in Lunsar in April. Wrapped in red bandages, the protesters heckled officials as they wooed visiting dignitaries, forcing President Ernest Bai Koroma to appeal to the crowd."There is too much talk from the president. Let him come work here every day for one week to see how it is," said one protester, Momo Kamara, who gave up sifting ankle-deep brown rivers for an elusive diamond in exchange for a $300-a-month salary with London Mining. "I could only find gold, but that was no use – it's for women to put food on the table or send one child to school," he said, adding that "a diamond or a bigger salary" was necessary for feeding his family of six.Other controversies have dogged the mining bonanza. Civil society groups have pressured the government into several successful contract renegotiations, including one that involved London Mining raising its tax payments to 25% from 6%. Critics worry underhand deals by lesser-known companies could deprive the country of millions in income.Still, across Africa, mineral-rich countries are pushing for tougher deals on mining concessions amid voracious demand led by China. The continent produces almost the entire global supply of cobalt, used in batteries and laptops, and a third of the US and China's mineral supplies.Guinea's president, Alpha Condé, recently overhauled mining laws to force companies to pay greater royalties. In Senegal, the former president Abdoulaye Wade championed the idea of a grouping of mineral-exporting countries based on the oil-exporting organisation, Opec. In neighbouring Niger, which supplies a tenth of the world's uranium, the government said it "cautiously welcomed" the idea of a pan-African body.But some think there are risks from resource-rich nationalism. "As an emerging economy we cannot afford to scare off investors," said Kamara.• This article was amended on 12 June 2012 to clarify the name of the Marampa mine and correct the month in which it was officially opened.