She attacked the food - cucumber salad and soupy rice with eggs - with gusto.Kitchen, Banana Yoshimoto---In 24 hours time, I will be submitting the first draft of my book to the publishers. In a purely practical sense, it’s occupied the last year of my life, but it’s been on my mind for a long time before that. In drawing together 100 recipes from over 80 books, I have discarded just as many, set aside for future posts here on the blog. I have sampled countless spoonfuls of the same few flavours of ice-cream, baked with endless variations of pastry and have chewed (quite literally) over oven times and temperatures for fish, pheasant, steak, and chicken. I have re-read the books – a welcome task early on in the process when it was a break from cooking, and a more difficult one as I turned my thoughts and energies to the words that will accompany the recipes.As well as a bit of all my favourite stories, my book has a fair bit of me in it too. Suddenly, it is heading off out into the world for others to read and to edit. It is a relief, in many ways, and terrifying in at least a dozen others. Mostly, I feel so extraordinarily lucky. A team of talented people will turn my electronic documents, and my brilliant friend Lean’s photographs, into a book. You will be able to read it in autumn 2017, almost a year to the day after I send my first draft off.In the meantime, I am going to figure out what to do next. There will be edits, of course, and plenty of time set aside to continue testing and re-testing the recipes, until I can make them in my sleep. And there will be time to start writing something new.But first, I am going to have a weekend off. On Saturday morning, I am going to lock away my laptop, make the first of many pots of tea, and attack the pile of books at the foot of my bed. The idea for my book came, after all, because I love to read. I love the smell of new books (and of old ones), the sound of crisp pages turning against soft cotton duvets, and the weight of a book in my hands. I love escaping into other worlds, coming to know characters as friends, and discovering something new about myself. If I can pull myself away from them, it will be to make this – the work of mere moments and only a handful of ingredients. It’s inauthentic, and lazy. I can’t wait.Okayu and CucumberServes 1IngredientsOkayu50g sushi rice 250ml stock (chicken, vegetable or dashi)1 eggCucumber Salad1 small cucumber 60ml rice wine vinegar 1tsp caster sugar 1/2tsp coarse sea salt 2tbsp toasted sesame seeds (I used half black sesame seeds)Soy sauce, to serveEquipment Small saucepan with a lidWooden spoon Vegetable peeler or mandolinKitchen towel Mixing bowl1. Wash the rice three times and then cover with water. Leave to soak for half an hour. Preheat your oven to 180C.2. Drain the rice then add it, and the stock, to a saucepan. Cover with a lid and place over a medium heat. Bring to the boil, then turn the heat right down and simmer gently for 25 minutes. Keep the lid on the whole time. Once 25 minutes have passed, turn off the heat and steam for five minutes. 3. Transfer the rice to a heatproof bowl, make a slight well in the rice and then crack the egg in. Bake for 10 minutes, until the white is cooked but the yolk is still runny.4. While the egg is cooking, slice the cucumbers thinly using a vegetable peeler or mandolin. Pat down with kitchen towel to remove some of their moisture. Combine the other salad ingredients (except the sesame seeds) in a bowl and swirl around so that the salt and sugar dissolve in the vinegar. Add the cucumber ribbons, toss, sprinkle with sesame seeds and serve immediately with the rice and egg, and some soy sauce, if you like.