This time of year, it’s as if darkness is stalking me. Like a predator in the long savannah grass, it lies in wait, unseen, then slowly creeps forward. I notice it gradually. The changes are incremental and steady. Then my anxiety begins to build. Finally, there is a dusky realisation, or maybe more of an acceptance of a cold unalterable fact: winter is coming.While it lasts, I try to live in denial of autumn. It’s a season which can be truly beautiful. There is a large field maple tree in my back garden, and it perfectly catches the evening light. When the angle of the sun dips, and the tree’s leaves turn a shade of burnt copper, it is stunning. Over in the vegetable patch there’s still much to harvest. There are red apples hanging low, ready to be picked. There are carrots that need lifting and cabbages to cut. And there is still colour. My roses have budded up and burst out in one final swan song of bloom. There are autumn days in garden where I am very happy. But as the weeks slip toward the new year, I become more and more apprehensive about the changing of the seasons.Where I live, in Scotland, the winters are dark and long. I find them very hard. I moved to Scotland eleven years ago, and I’ve never really gotten used to the bleak winter months. Apparently, I have a common complaint, which doctors now label as Sad (seasonal affective disorder). I’m pretty sure that emotional difficulty in the winter months has been a part of the human condition long before there was a name and definition to describe it. Like many people who struggle with the changing of the season, I begin to feel lethargic, at times irritable, and increasingly pessimistic. According the NHS, the lack of sunlight in winter affects my hypothalamus. This is a part of the brain which is connected to the production of both melatonin and serotonin, and helps to regulate our circadian rhythm. They say it’s a big part of which gives me those SAD feelings, and leaves me wondering at how an almond-sized piece of my brain can cause such changes in my personality.For me, however, the real killer is the lack of access to my garden. And it’s not the cold or the wet or the wind that really stops me form going out into the garden, it’s the darkness. During the winter, I wake up to a black window that looks out onto the black treetops against a black sky. I drive to work in what feels like the middle of the night. If the day is cloudy, then even the sun struggles to lift its tired head above the horizon. A grey light quickly gives way to dusk and then everything slips back again into darkness. I usually drive home under the artificial whiteness of streetlights and back to the blackness outside my windows. Days can often go by where I feel as if I’ve never properly seen my garden.Many people feel like their garden is their refuge, and I am no exception. My garden means many things to me. Often, it’s a place where I can be alone and contemplative, somewhere I can go to think. At other times, it’s a place where I can be with my children, happily playing with no particular timetable. Sometimes, it’s a place where I can be with friends and socialise and solve the word’s problems with a glass of red wine. It may be a cliche, but a garden is an extension of a home. In winter, I feel as if I lose some large and fabulous extension to my living space.I’m doing all I can to mitigate the oncoming storm. I’ve planted up pots of hardy pansies and put them around the front and back doors of the house. Any little shot of colour in the winter months is welcome. This year, I’ve tried to grow more hardy vegetables. I have winter lettuces and spring onions and brussels sprouts, all which will hopefully give me something to pick even in the coldest of conditions. Being able to harvest something, anything, in the winter brings a smile to my face and reminds me that there is still life in the garden.I also try and stay positive, and remind myself of the benefits of winter. For example, cold weather can help to kill off unwanted pests and diseases. Without a proper winter, aphids and cabbage flies can survive in greater numbers and are a bigger nuisance the next summer. Plunging temperatures also mean that bulbs lay dormant until their usual flowering period, when springtime pollinators are active. Finally, a good sub-zero blast helps to break up heavy clods of clay soil, if the ground has been turned and left exposed to the elements. In short, I know that winter is necessary for my garden to properly grow.All this, however, does nothing to alleviate the crushing darkness. No matter what I do, heading into winter always feels like preparing for a long journey on a turbulent sea. So I’ll do what I always do: batten down the hatches and hold on. I know that some days will be better than others. But on those really dark nights I can always cling to my collection of gardening books, thumb through seed catalogues, and dream of warmer days ahead.