“Toxic” is a potent word. It sounds like something dangerous dripping in a lab. By definition, to be toxic is to have the ability to cause harm, and it’s a term we often ascribe to human behaviour. We all have the ability to cause harm to each other; tangible and abstract, visible and invisible. But what makes a person toxic? A flesh-and-bones poison?We could say that it’s acts of abuse, bigotry, bitching, spitefulness, selfishness, lying, gaslighting or an absence of empathy: all types of behaviour that cause pain. More generally, a person’s apparent poisoning of “everything they touch” – their romantic relationships, friendships, work relationships – in a way they don’t seem to understand.The Archers domestic abuse is classic ‘gaslighting’ – very real, little understood | Jay Watts To consider someone to be toxic seems to imply there is some fundamental glitch in their emotional matrix, that in place of their heart is a lump of polonium. A common kneejerk reaction might be to think that, if someone feels the need to ask if they’re toxic, they probably are. But let’s not be so quick to judge.We’re consumed with the concept of human toxicity in today’s society: toxic relationships, toxic friendships, toxic masculinity, toxic bosses, toxic colleagues, toxic energy. But despite the proliferation of the word and the number of “tests” on the internet to tell you whether you are – or someone you know is – toxic, it’s worth considering the following.First: any “Answer these 10 questions to find out if you’re a toxic person!” quiz may claim to enlighten you – but “toxic” is neither a personality type or a diagnosis.And second: in order to understand and evaluate our own behaviour, it’s important to consider how we interpret the behaviour of others. So, if I am wondering whether I am a toxic person, I need to ask myself: “What does toxicity look like to me?”Making any interpretation of behaviour means, by virtue of being a human being with a wildly complex brain, automatically bringing ourselves into the equation. Our belief systems about what are and aren’t good ways to act are indiscernible, shape-shifting helixes informed by genetics and life experience. If a friend has done something that has upset me, that upset is as much about me as it is them. That isn’t to say my emotion is not real or valid, or that the person in question should take my hurt any less seriously. Rather, it is acknowledging that at the very heart of any matters psychological, we are dealing with perceptions. Two sets of values colliding.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Childhood experiences of distress and fear as a result of neglect or abuse are very common in people with personality disorders.’ Photograph: Dave Hunt/AAPOften, when hurt, we can assume people perceive things the way we do. Looking at the US election is a good example. People of a certain mindset – considering inhumane any person or system that favours the undermining of minorities to upgrade life for the majority – hope that others feel the same. Sometimes that hope gives way to assumption. So many assumed Donald Trump’s flagrant spectrum of discrimination would be a barrier to him ever becoming president. Is mocking disabled people at campaign rallies a toxic thing to do? Do not the allegations made by several women that Trump sexually assaulted them give the man even the vaguest whiff of toxicity? What about being racist? The answers will depend on who you ask and what their own belief system tells them is right and just. More than 59 million voters in the US didn’t seem to think so.In our day-to-day lives, how we attach meaning to others’ or our own behaviour can be explained by attribution theory. Broadly speaking, this aspect of social psychology suggests that the attributions we make about people’s behaviour can be classified as either internal or external.If I make an internal attribution, I believe that a person’s behaviour is down to their traits, intentions or abilities, without considering context. For example, if a driver cuts me up on my bike, I might think: “Ugh, selfish dick. What a terrible driver.” I might not consider why they cut me up. I’ve automatically gone to “selfish dick” zone, very quickly attributing someone’s behaviour in one space, at one time, to who they are fundamentally as a person.An external attribution means I understand a person’s behaviour to be a product of context, so, this driver may have had to swerve due to my own position on the road, or may not have had enough room to manoeuvre because of the position of other cars.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘If a driver cuts me up on my bike, I might automatically go to ‘selfish dick’ zone.’ Photograph: Wanda McCrae/AlamyIn psychoanalysis it is believed that, in order to deal with conflict, the ego has a range of defence mechanisms. These operate on an unconscious level and help us feel better about ourselves. One of those mechanisms is projection, which is when a person attributes their own thoughts and feelings on to others. For instance, you might have an anger management problem, but your superego tells you that kind of anger isn’t a good trait to have, and you “solve” the problem by believing that everyone around you is angry. As my dad used to say to me: “If you think everyone is an arsehole, it’s you that’s the arsehole.”By asking Google whether I am toxic, I am likely to be trying to make sense of a pattern of difficult interactions. Maybe I feel that everyone is angry or upset with me all the time. Maybe I have noticed that I argue with people a lot or can’t hold down a relationship with a partner. Maybe I’ve been told that I’m toxic. However, there is no rulebook for emotional behaviour. We can only judge our actions based on the impact they have on others.Our mental health affects how we think, perceive, feel or relate to others, and there are conditions that can have a significant impact on our ability to do that. Personality disorders are often characterised by a person’s odd, destructive behaviour that can be distressing and upsetting to those around them. It’s thought that one in 20 people in the UK has a personality disorder and there are several types, usually grouped into clusters.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘A common kneejerk reaction might be to think that, if someone feels the need to ask if they’re toxic, they probably are. But let’s not be so quick to judge.’ Photograph: Design Pics Inc/RexSomeone with borderline personality disorder may be emotionally unstable and have very intense, short-lived relationships. A person with antisocial personality disorder may bully others they see as vulnerable and show no remorse for their actions. Unfortunately, these conditions are not well understood, and are often misdiagnosed. In such cases, a person’s behaviour is liable to be misconstrued. Furthermore, childhood experiences of distress and fear as a result of neglect or abuse are very common in people with personality disorders. Most models of psychology will agree that negative behaviours are coming from a place of pain.There is much to consider when we try to pick apart “bad” human behaviour – including our own. When looking inwards, perhaps a better question to ask would be: “Am I aware?” Am I aware of how I make people feel? Am I aware of how I act?With awareness comes options. If my human connections are problematic, it would be an act of both self-kindness and selflessness to talk to someone to try to identify the patterns. In doing so, I may be able to work out ways that I can mend connections, or indeed start to make them.