A trip to the southern Lake District offers an exemplary lesson in the way that the co-operative model can embrace both multi-billion pound businesses and small – sometimes very small – trading ventures. Buy your supplies for a hike on the hills at the village co-op in Hawkshead and you will be supporting the Co-operative Group, one of the largest co-ops in the world. Buy your provisions in the co-op in the next-door village of Coniston and you are supporting a one-shop co-operative society operating entirely autonomously.The ability of the co-operative model to fit different business sizes and needs is, according to Gianluca Salvatori, one of its strengths. As chief executive of the European co-operative research institute Euricse, he leads the team which each year examines the trading performance of the co-operative sector worldwide and produces the World Co-operative Monitor."From what we have seen from empirical studies, they [co-operatives] seem to be really able to adapt to different contexts," he says. He warns, however, that the co-operative movement has to be prepared to move with the times and be alert for new business opportunities: "We mustn't just repeat the same recipes, the same models as in the past."More precisely, Salvatori talks about the possibilities for co-operatives in areas such as social care and personal services, healthcare, education and renewable energy generation – often areas of the economy which are being exited by public sector bodies under pressure to reduce public spending. Salvatori's own country, Italy, has seen considerable growth recently in what are known as social co-operatives, delivering services to groups such as the disabled and long-term unemployed. More broadly there is growing interest internationally in the so-called social and solidarity economy (SSE), of which co-operatives comprise a major part. SSE was the theme of the January European conference in Strasbourg, previously reported on in this forum.In Britain, the 'new ventures' panel established by Co-operatives UK suggested more than ten years ago that the movement should consider entering potentially promising sectors such as childcare, old people's homes provision and energy, areas where co-operative values could be directly relevant. Midcounties Co-operative has since successfully built up a chain of children's nurseries and launched the national energy supplier Co-operative Energy. It has withdrawn from an experiment in old people's care homes, however, on business grounds.Midcounties' ventures, and the parallel move by the Co-operative Group into legal services, are examples of established co-operatives moving into other sectors. If this can represent the fast track to growth, the more traditional co-operative approach adopts a steady-as-she-goes route of building a new venture through reinvesting profits. This has been the approach chosen by the telephone services provider Phone Co-operative. First established fifteen years ago, it has gradually built up to its present £10m turnover, last year making a record £414,000 profit for its 10,000+ members. The Phone Co-op's story shows that new consumer co-op businesses can both be got off the ground and also be successfully grown.Nevertheless the Phone Co-op remains a tiny operator in an industry dominated by giant non co-operative firms. Not every recent foray into new business sectors works out, either. The workers' co-operative Poptel, set up in 1983, was an innovative early IT and internet service provider with at its peak over fifty employees. However it found itself starved of the venture capital it needed to break through to the big time and was eventually forced to demutualise and, later, cease trading.If start-up capital for co-ops can these days be found with relative ease from specialist lenders such as Co-operative and Community Finance, there remains a potential issue facing established co-operatives hoping to scale up their operations once they have passed the test of the first few years. It's a challenge which Gianluca Salvatori understands very well: "At an early stage, co-operatives can find more difficulty than traditional companies in finding capital. It is difficult to find the equivalent of venture capital and other forms of capital like that, " he explains. But he argues that by contrast in the longer-term – freed of short-term shareholder concerns with returns – co-operatives can have more flexibility to reinvest in business development and growth.Perhaps we should not be surprised if, taking the global picture, the range of trading co-operative businesses shows much the same characteristics as conventional business. There are those co-ops which plod along from year to year with unspectacular growth, but there are also those co-operatives with entrepreneurial flair which produce strong performances for their members. The real opportunity for co-ops, according to Gianluca Salvatori, is to build successful businesses in new areas by emphasising their co-operative values – by aiming for both economic and social returns.For more news, opinions and ideas about the social enterprise sector, join our community