The day Doctor Who changed face – and transformed TV for ever What can you tell us about the Christmas special?It’s got a returning monster. It’s got Matt Lucas. It’s a sort of tribute to the Christopher Reeve’s Superman movies. It has the Doctor in an adventure with a superhero in New York. What more could you want for Christmas?What was it like working with Matt Lucas again?A great pleasure. He’s an absolutely delightful man; I loved working with him and he’s a great talent to have around. He’s sort of a developing character, so it’s different from the way it was in The Husbands Of River Song, and that’s very interesting to watch and see happening.He’s not the young action hero playing opposite the older Doctor, then?He can be quite action-packed. I’m not quite at the William Hartnell stage [the first Doctor, who, like Capaldi, played the role while in his late 50s]. I can still run around and chase after a Zygon when called upon to. It’s an action-packed show so we do have a lot of stuff to do. We both just have a more peculiar gait as we do it.Are you yourself a fan of superhero movies?No, I don’t really see that many. There seem to be so many that I can’t keep track, aren’t there hundreds of them? I wish they would start making films of The Beano and The Dandy, that might be easier for me.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  First look at the Doctor Who Christmas specialWho do you think the Doctor’s favourite superhero would be?He’d be a bit uptight about Doctor Strange. I think he’d be a little bit like: “Bitch stole my look.” I think he would like Wonder Woman, because Lynda Carter is so funny. And I think he’d like Adam West’s Batman. He’d find Adam West great company. You don’t film the episode in December. Do you have a trick for getting in the Christmas mood?You don’t have to do that. The curious thing is that it begins to work on you. If you are doing scenes in snow or with tinsel, it obviously triggers something. I immediately begin to get anxious about the presents that I haven’t bought. I feel Christmassy in a kind of “Oh no I haven’t done all the things I should have done” kind of a way.If little kids watch Doctor Who on Christmas Day, will there be tears? Or might it be too scary?There’s always a few tears with Doctor Who. But I think they’ll have more laughs. And lots of thrills. I think it has to be a little bit scary. The amazing thing about Doctor Who is the constituency of the audience: the age range that goes from tiny little kids to middle-aged men who should know better. You’ve got to entertain all of them. The Christmas special does that effectively – but being scary is part of that.Doctor Who's new companion Pearl Mackie: 'I have no time-travelling experience!' What can we expect from the new series of Doctor Who?It’s got the Doctor in it. And the Tardis flying through time and space. It’s got corridors, which we run down, with nasty surprises at the end of them. We’ve got all kinds of things: we’ve got Romans, we’ve got robots, we’ve got serpents.Do you feel your portrayal of the Doctor has shifted over the three series you’ve made?The danger of Doctor Who is that it becomes bland, that the character has to tick boxes, so I try to keep dragging him away from those boxes. The thing is he changes all the time. I think there was a definite move last season to sort of brighten him up. We had to, I think, to break from Matt Smith, who is wonderful and I love, we had to make the Doctor a little more difficult to grasp. Make him not as audience-friendly, as it were. Which, you know, I’m pretty good at. But it’s more complicated than that. He has to balance all of those things. You have to be able to play to the 7 year old watching, and to the 42 year old. So sometimes you have to be more comic perhaps than you normally would be comfortable with. But it’s important, because really it’s a children’s show that developed into something more complex, a bit more adult-orientated, but we have a duty to entertain the children to whom it was aimed in the first place.What would your Doctor want Father Christmas to leave him in his stocking?A fuzz pedal for his guitar. No. A wah-wah pedal. I think he’s been trying to make one for some time, because the Doctor would always rather make his own, but I think the technology of the wah-wah pedal has been eluding him.Doctor Who, Christmas Day, 5.45pm, BBC1      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Peter Capaldi and Matt Lucas in the Doctor Who Christmas special. Photograph: Simon Ridgway