It is around 4pm and a team of workers in a large warehouse behind a housing estate in Finsbury Park are just about to clock off. They have spent the day sorting and fixing a range of electrical items that have come through their doors: TVs, computers, DVD players.One of those ready to go home is 32-year-old James William Jarvis. He is based in the workshop as a volunteer once a week and has been turning up for the past year, collecting new items in the van.Jarvis is one of 32 volunteers on Islington's Bright Sparks project. Volunteers work alongside paid staff members, either in the workshop or as retail staff in the nearby shop.Bright Sparks repairs, refurbishes and sells on household electrical items and furniture. On average it collects 7.5 tons a month, around 680 items. They either take in things that people don't want any more or offer a repair service for those looking to get small items mended at little cost. Each month they receive on average of 17 items for repair and 158 donations.After Jarvis left prison he found it hard to get a job, but he moved to north London to turn his life around. Regular volunteering on site has given him valuable skills."I have reading and writing problems and I have learned how to do testing on computers. Every little helps somewhere along the line," he says. "When I walk through the door here I know straight away what I have to do."The Bright Sparks initiative started in 2010 with small scale domestic appliances like dryers; now it deals in larger items such as washing machines. It was initially completely funded by the council who contribute less as the income generated increases. The grant from the council for 2013-14 is £110,000 with an expectation of the project becoming financially self-sufficient within two to three years.The project manager and founder Diye Wariebi says that volunteers get a lot back. "They get retail and customer service experience, as well as cash handling and basic administration skills," he says. At the end of 2012-13 just under 10% of the project's 18 volunteers were in full-time employment or further education.Jarvis had been out of work for 10 years before Bright Sparks and now he hopes to one day get a permanent contract with the company.Bright Sparks started as part of Digibridge, a social enterprise set up to help improve people's lives through IT support.The council have been involved in spreading the word about the work of Bright Sparks though leafleting and social media. Wariebi says that there are also a lot of people telling friends and family that it is a good place to go to get a bargain.Their latest paid recruit previously worked as a volunteer for them. Siobhan Obliana, a full-time mother of five, began volunteering in December."I had been looking for a job for some time. It was a struggle and quite depressing," she says.Obliana says that she has gained in confidence since working at Bright Sparks and that the opportunities she has had are better than at other places she has worked where volunteering just meant making cups of tea."I got a new kind of respect for myself knowing I was more than just a mum and I could say I have been at work all day. This job gives me a chance to meet adults and not just answer the demands of my children," she says.Wariebi has met with some challenges setting up the shop, including the level of regulation around reuse. "You need loads of environment agency licenses, it is not too onerous but you have to do it. When we first started we didn't realise this as the project was evolving and expanding into more things and was no longer just a small organisation doing one thing. There were lots of things to take into consideration."Another important factor is finance. "You need investment too because some of our activities are not profitable. We repair a kettle that is normally not worth our while to repair, but it is great training to show someone how to do that," he says.However, he is ambitious for the project to expand and add value to what they are doing. "There are loads of opportunities. We would like to open up another shop in another part of the borough so people over there don't have to travel as far. We need to take it one step at a time."• Do you have a story to share for #ourday? On 17 October the Local Government Association will hold a one day Tweetathon to celebrate the work of councils. Email sarah.marsh@theguardian.comNot already a member? Join us now for more comment, analysis and the latest job opportunities in local government.