A good film production designer must be an architect, engineer, painter, decorator, draughtsman and visionary. Sir Ken Adam, who has died aged 95, was all of these and more. He had a knowledge of the arts in general, which he was able to use to recreate the scrupulously researched historical period of a movie, exemplified by his two Academy Awards for best art direction, both set in the 18th century: Stanley Kubrick’s Barry Lyndon (1975), inspired by the English landscape and portrait paintings of the period, and Nicholas Hytner’s The Madness of King George (1994).It was Adam’s designs for seven James Bond movies, however, that made him probably the only production designer whose name and work are widely known. He provided the visual template for the 007 franchise in Dr No (1962), the first in the enduring action-adventure series.“More and more, the Ian Fleming stories disappeared and the producers and the public seemed to rely more and more on the visual excitement of the film, meaning sets, locations, gadgets and everything else,” Adam explained. “I think the function of a film production designer is to create something which the audience has never seen.” Increasingly fantastical villains’ lairs, futuristic cars, weaponry and gadgets, products of Adam’s imagination, set the tone.Apart from his landmark sets, Adam was the inventor of Bond’s Aston Martin DB5 used in Goldfinger (1964), complete with a bullet-proof shield, Browning heavy machine guns, rams, tyre shredders, revolving number plates, smokescreen and oil slick projectors, a homing tracker, and an ejector seat, and he also dreamed up the submersible Lotus Esprit in The Spy Who Loved Me (1977). He must have identified with the eccentric inventor Caractacus Potts (Dick Van Dyke) for whom he designed the eponymous car in Chitty Chitty Bang Bang (1968), going beyond anything Fleming had imagined in his children’s story.In contrast, Adam articulated the darker side of a neurotic technological age in his design of the ominous circular War Room, central to Kubrick’s nightmarish vision of the inevitable heated ending of the cold war in Dr Strangelove (1964). The setting triggered the memorable quip from Peter Sellers as the US president: “Please, gentlemen, you can’t fight here, this is the War Room.”Adam was born Klaus Hugo Adam, in Berlin, to a Jewish family, the son of Fritz Adam, a former Prussian cavalryman who owned a high-fashion clothes shop. His mother, Lilli (nee Saalfeld), ran a boarding house. “My background as a boy growing up in Berlin with architects like Mies van der Rohe, Walter Gropius and Erich Mendelsohn obviously had some influence on me,” Adam recalled. “I was fascinated by shapes and light and shade and big surfaces from an early age.”While young Klaus was attending the Berlin French school, the Nazi party came to power, and the family fled to Britain in 1934, where 13-year-old Klaus went to St Paul’s school in London, then University College London. A meeting with Vincent Korda, the Hungarian-born art director, encouraged him to study at the Bartlett School of Architecture, with the intention of entering the film business, but the outbreak of the second world war interrupted his studies.Still a German citizen, Adam initially joined the Pioneer Corps, a British army engineering unit composed of Axis nationals. After eight months in the corps, where he designed bomb shelters, he applied to the Royal Air Force and became a fighter pilot. There was a risk that, being German, if he were captured, he would be executed for treason.Immediately after the war, he entered the film industry as a draughtsman, working his way up to assistant art director and then art director (uncredited) on Michael Todd’s spectacular all-star production of Around the World in Eighty Days (1956). Adam’s first credit as production designer was on Jacques Tourneur’s Night of the Demon (aka Curse of the Demon, 1957).After working on a few films produced by Albert “Cubby” Broccoli, notably The Trials of Oscar Wilde (1960), a period piece with Peter Finch in the title role, Adam was asked to design Dr No. “I said yes to Dr No, and thought I was prostituting myself,” Adam said. But it set him on a path of grandiose, stylised sets that put him in the line of great art directors such as Eugen Schüfftan (Metropolis), William Cameron Menzies (Gone with the Wind) and Hein Heckroth and Alfred Junge (Black Narcissus).One of the most effective sets in Dr No is the room where Professor Dent (Anthony Dawson) is interrogated and where he receives the tarantula that is meant to kill Bond (Sean Connery). “I think it is one of my favourite sets, because it is so simple and theatrical,” Adam said. “I think I had £450 left in the budget. So I really had to come up with something very quickly that was very easy to construct and at the same time create a very important effect.”At the other end of the financial spectrum were the realistic Fort Knox set in Goldfinger, and Spectre’s volcano base in You Only Live Twice (1967), which included a heliport and a monorail constructed at Pinewood Studios at a cost of $1m. Adam was also known for his tongue-in-cheek designs such as the tasteless art deco furniture and Tiffany lamps in the gaudy Slumber mortuary in Diamonds Are Forever (1971). Many years later, Adam was able to give full rein to his kitsch side in the black comedy Addams Family Values (1993), for which he was Oscar-nominated.The last Bond movie that Adam designed was Moonraker (1979), the centrepiece of which was an elaborate giant three-storey space station. He then moved over to more modest subjects, such as the two-hander Sleuth (1972). At 91 he told the journalist Todd Longwell, “I had a good time on the Bonds, but they were an enormous strain.” Of the increasing use of computer graphics by others he said: “It’s a very useful and wonderful tool, and it should be used as such, but it should not be used as a means to an end. If a whole film is done with digital effects, you know it’s artificial and you miss the reality of sets and locations.”His last film as production designer was particularly personal. It was István Szabó’s Taking Sides (2001), set during the denazification of postwar Germany.Adam, who was knighted in 2003, is survived by his wife, Maria Letitzia, whom he met working on location in Italy and married in 1952.• Ken Adam (Klaus Hugo Adam), production designer,born 5 February 1921; died 10 March 2016