How is it that a ton of old metal can make a grown man cry?This heavyweight bohemian is nearly 40, has four wheels and a fibreglass pop top. It’s my campervan, or to be precise it’s no longer my campervan as I have just sold it.Each morning, the first thing I see outside my window is this crazy orange character – a free spirit of the 70s that doesn’t say much, but speaks to me in code. We have a telepathic relationship. Just a glimpse at those long simple lines makes me smile and for 10 years it has been my constant, my reliable friend, a conduit for my hopes, my dreams and most importantly my symbol of dad-dom. And over time this van has made me feel better about myself.If I could, I would mate with such beauty – except he’s a boy and he’s called Dave.The thought of him leaving home has created a hole in my heart, which I know will be VW-shaped. God, I’m going to miss him.A decade ago, having just gone through divorce, I became obsessed with buying an old VW. It had to be the Type 2 and the more orange the better. That iconic shape was burned into my psyche ever since I bought a cheap split screen as a 20-year-old and drove through Europe for six months with my Australian girlfriend. Back then, Italy had the lira, Spain the peseta, and Greece the drachma. The trip felt terribly exotic.But I wanted more than to just recreate a sense of freedom and adventure, I also felt the need to provide something my kids would think of as uniquely “dad”. It had to encompass an experience they would enjoy, look forward to and participate in because they wanted to, not because they felt obliged.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gavan with his daughter, Holly, and Dave. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianHaving moved into a rather pokey and clinical flat, I couldn’t compete with the family home and, rightly or wrongly, felt I needed reasons for the children to want to be with me. Everything was smaller and darker where I lived, so what better way to make them think time spent with Dad was fun than by enjoying life under the stars?The VW campervan had all the required prerequisites. It was one of the few objects that spanned the generations. It was stylish, cool and came with a fridge, which at one stage was more than could said for my flat.It took months to find it. There were many fruitless journeys around the country, arriving a little too late for some, finding others held together by suspect welding and extra shiny ones with eye-watering price tags.And then Dave came into my life and my van-tastic romance started. Owned by a loving family who spent years on careful renovations and getting him roadworthy, they initially eyed me with suspicion. It was as if I was being interviewed for a job. Was I good enough to care for Dave? Would I bring him up right? As they parted with their beloved, I noticed a deep sense of regret, but he was mine now …After presenting Dave to the kids with the minimum of fuss (Oh yeah, Dad’s got a campervan, kids. Check me! Backflip!), I parked him outside and posed holding a large hippy flower. They looked quite proud.Over the years, we set off at dawn to all parts of the country: Devon and Cornwall with a surfboard; the New Forest with bikes, and Norfolk to strap on harnesses for Go Ape treetop adventures. And each time we’ve parked, within seconds we’ve flipped up the top, dragged out the small gas cooker, and started to sizzle sausages. It’s been a bonding experience, but without the major fuss of camping under canvas. Then, in the evening, we’ve sat together under the stars, looking at the moon, knowing we’ll get a fine night’s sleep even if it rains.I would drive Dave at a heady 57mph – not that he couldn’t go faster, it was just that I didn’t see the point. Dave was born in the slower, pre-internet era when having five gears was showing off. If Dave wanted to take his time, I may have been in the driving seat, but he was the cool dude calling the shots. The van was a symbol of what fatherhood represented to me. He was dependable, fun and always there Few drivers took exception to my slowness and occasionally I was known to put my foot down. When heading back from Cornwall, my son and I were flagged down by an unmarked police car. I gave my son a cheery thumbs up thinking Dave had actually managed to sneak past the speed limit. Instead, we were given a lecture as the back wheel of my bike was inhibiting a full view of the brake light.Back home, when my daughter was revising for exams, she’d sit in the van. I’d pop out every hour or so and there she was, on the main road, with her books spread over the van’s table. Dave had become her library and can take full credit for preparing a maths teacher of the future.The van was a symbol of what fatherhood represented to me. He was dependable, fun and always there. He looked slightly bulky and just chugged along at his own speed. (Although, like any dad, he’d still got enough in the tank to attract attention with his own special dance.) And of course, he gave the illusion of being so damn cool.For Christmas and birthdays they bought me model kits, VW miniatures, VW egg cups and salt and pepper shakers. Over the years, I became synonymous with my camper.But then the inevitable happened. The children grew up. My daughter left home and my son went off to university. They acquired boyfriends and girlfriends and my reason for having Dave started to fade. Suddenly, all the van things we did together were being relegated to the past. Would the kids really want their dad, a middle-aged geezer with a dodgy T-shirt, at Glastonbury?I secretly dreamed that one day I would again do the tour of Europe. But more sedately. Or, maybe the kids would implore me to take them to Cornwall for old times’ sake. And although I knew the truth, each time I tried to summon the courage to sell, I managed to find something else to do. I couldn’t bear to think of Dave’s smiley face no longer parked outside my door.So I hung on, and for two years the van’s remained part of the family, waiting for a trip further than the shops. He’s been underused and over-cleaned and has been taxed and insured purely as an emotional crutch. I could not part with him – it was like being told I could never tell bad dad jokes again.Then, of the blue, Dave’s previous owners contacted me. They inquired gently if he might one day want to return home. I wanted to scream: “But he is home! I’m the daddy! This is where he belongs.”His old family missed him so badly that their lives had never been the same since I bought him. He was just the pick-me-up they needed. I was so touched, I really had no option.The symmetry felt right and I realised I wouldn’t have to worry about him because he’d be back with another dad, doing all the things I once did. I was just passing on the mantle.I’m a little choked as I wave goodbye. Dave’s work is done.