Another celebrity endorsement for The X Factor’s Honey G, adding pace aplenty to the on-fire-truck-tyre-kicked-down-a-steep-hill-towards-a-school momentum of her career. This week it is the turn of 50 Cent, an actual rapper who has taken actual bullets to his actual body in the pursuit of his career, who said of G, a 35-year-old recruitment manager from Harrow: “I would like to see her go far.” Add that to the clipbook along with Snoop Dogg saying she is “real hip-hop talent” and John Legend diplomatically declaring her “entertaining”, and we are staring down the barrel of a legitimate musician endorsement hat-trick. Honey G, as she keeps telling us, is the real deal.It’s hard to know what to make of all this. The X Factor always has a novelty act – just like it always has a plain-faced Scottish boy, a girl who cries ugly when she goes through each week, a boyband that keeps River Island in business through bomber jacket expenses alone, and an exceptionally talented vocalist who, sadly, is over 25, so can’t win. But G has quietly become something More. She has appeared on Charlie Sloth’s Radio 1Xtra show, edging along a line of irony that is becoming ever more impossible to judge. She has quickly won over the vital “mums and nans” X Factor audience. She has held effortlessly on as three actual vocalists toppled and fell. And she has done it all while wearing a novelty pair of perma-shades, so nobody really knows what she looks like.This isn’t Wagner, and it’s not even Jedward: this is something else entirely. And it’s getting hard to know what is real any more: where does Honey G end and Anna Gilford begin? Does she even know?The only dull shadow over the moon of Honey G is the fact that nobody can quite decide if she is awful or not, or if the act is racist. In a nuanced essay for the Guardian, Lola Okolosie argued that G’s reductive caricature of rap culture is akin to modern blackface (we must again go to 50 Cent for the dissenting voice: “A middle-aged white woman rapping along to Dre and Tupac ain’t even close to being racist.”) Whispers abound that Honey G, a contestant who is surely fake and entered as a joke, might not be as “real” as she is making out.Honey G’s X Factor act isn’t funny. It’s modern-day blackface | Lola Okolosie Week three of the competition, and the whole exercise feels an awful lot like a prank that has got out of hand, but everyone is committed to it, so they just have to brave through to the bitter end of it.There is another notable public figure who has embarked on a high-stakes competition – possibly as a joke, but at least as an ego boost – doing the rounds. Someone who, no matter how much you stare at them, you can’t quite pin what they look like: what is their natural state, without the tan, without the hair combing? There is another person who, we can comfortably say, “keeps offending minorities while hamfistedly trying to reach out to minorities”. There is another person who has won over just the right numbers of a voting public to keep afloat in a race they are in no way qualified to be running in.Do you see where I am going with this? Honey G, X Factor novelty and the bizarre cultural touchstone we never knew we needed to bring 2016 to a close, is the British Donald Trump. That is the fact we all have to deal with now. And we can map out how G is going to fare in the competition based on how Trump does in the election:Option 1: Trump loses, gives some sort of disgraceful losing speech, yells so much his body turns around on the spot, gets into a helicopter and furiously shoots into the sky while unfurling a banner reading “HILLARY CROOKEDTON” and is last seen sprinting naked around his own golf course in Scotland. This is the option we can reasonably hope for, and see it easily mapped on to Honey G’s X Factor career: she will get cleanly voted out with about six weeks to go, yell “WEEZY” slightly too close to a microphone so much that Dermot O’Leary has to apologise for any viewers offended at home, then fade away into nothing again, recruiting anonymously against the dying of the sun.Option 2: Trump wins, flipping two majestic birds into the air as sparklers erupt around him, gets into a helicopter and furiously shoots into the sky while unfurling a banner reading “HILLARY CROOKEDTON”, gives every presidential press conference from the Apprentice US boardroom, and somehow drives America into the sea. And this is the one we have to fear, for how it will translate to Honey G – she walks stiff-legged to the X Factor win, her Gilford ego and G id fusing in one perfect moment of victory, and, long story short, this ends with Honey G having her hands on the nuclear code and doing a “When I say ‘bomb’, you say ‘Russia’” call-and-response to a rapt studio audience. This is the bad path.Trump and G are inextricably linked, now, because they are the same person spread across two mortal vessels. We must work together on this one. None of us can allow Option 2 to happen.