Whether for hitting 4bn daily views, or with accusations that they “lied and cheated” their way to that number, Facebook’s video offering has certainly been grabbing headlines lately. All the updates, debates and comparisons can, however, be a little overwhelming. What does it really mean for marketers and how can we maximise this opportunity?Facebook’s biggest change has been autoplay, the process by which videos automatically begin silently playing in your newsfeed. Much like the moving images in Harry Potter’s newspaper, this motion does bring the newsfeed to life, but it also slightly removes the user choice on whether they want it to play at all.Facebook counts a view when a video has been autoplaying for a mere three seconds on your screen, though in fairness three seconds can feel like an eternity when you’re scrolling through lots of updates. This timing is in fact in line with many industry standards, but it’s notably below YouTube’s definition, which is as much as 30 seconds (though can be shorter where the user has actively initiated the view).What's the key to a marketing hit: an original sound or the same old tune? The key thing for marketers is that three seconds of a video can still have a big impact on people and in fact Google has been making a similar point about the five seconds of its ads that aren’t skippable for years. This of course depends on what you creatively include in your first few seconds and what it communicates about your brand. The danger is when we try and simplify reporting by putting Facebook and YouTube video views next to one another and start making comparisons. Facebook views are largely akin to impressions, so are more comparable with that metric on YouTube, a number that can easily be 10 times higher than the actual displayed view count.This micro-level difference is reflected in the macro way that Facebook and YouTube describe their scale – view count for the former while watch time is the metric of choice for the latter. Not entirely coincidentally this reflects the strengths of the platforms, with Facebook arguably being better at getting some part of a video in front of a consumer, while YouTube remains a more likely platform for someone to sit back and watch the whole thing. This closely mirrors the user behaviour in the two sites, which differs between scrolling and social discovery and an active attempt to seek out video content.One thing that is clear is that the Facebook newsfeed is only going to become more video-heavy. It will increasingly become a rich marketing canvas where brands can engagingly reach millions of people. Given that it effectively costs the same for marketers to buy an impression of a video as a static image, they should start preparing for all, or at least much of, their Facebook content to be video, though perhaps not always in the traditional sense. Here are 10 key considerations for the platform:Think about subtly moving imagery and animation, as well as more traditional video.Capture attention in the “three-second audition” where your content first appears.Look for unobtrusive ways to include branding as early as possible.Use longer formats only if you have a genuine hook that will keep people interested.Remember your video will initially (and perhaps entirely) play with sound off.Ensure key imagery is still visible on mobile screens, which dominate views.Post video natively to Facebook, rather than embedding a clip from YouTube.Paid media is essential and will drive 95% plus of your reach.Consider clever targeting, sequencing and personalisation opportunities.Face the practicalities of video production, maximise TV shoots and remember that less can be more.To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox,sign up free for Media & Tech Network membership.All Guardian Media & Tech Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled “Brought to you by” – find out more here.