Children’s media and books are packed with gender stereotypes: princesses waiting for Prince Charming, fairies dressed in pink and sparkles and heroic characters that are almost invariably male. The list is long.We asked Guardian readers to share their recommendations for children’s books with empowering female leads. If you have any other suggestions, please share them in the comments below. We’ll highlight a selection of the best.Feodora in The Wolf Wilder by Katherine Rundell (recommended for ages 9-12)Feodora and her mother live in the snowy wilds of Russia and make up a strong, female unit, reintroducing previously domesticated wolves in to the wild. This is not a cutesy process, the wolves are never pets – Feo’s scratches are testament to that. What is startling is that Feo’s single mother is never portrayed as downtrodden, tired and trying to “get by” as so often literary single mothers are. Instead, she bravely and resolutely stands up to the hostility of the Russian army.– Mily, 39, London, trainee teacherCloudette by Tom Lichtenheld (recommended for ages 4 - 7)Cloudette is a small cloud who wants to be like the big clouds: making rainbows, giving kids a day off from school with a blizzard. She finds a way to contribute to her community, even though she’s little and inexperienced. The best scene is where she “lets it pour” and has finally found her purpose and a way to help others. She is joyful!I read this board book to my daughter. I have been seeking out infant books featuring strong girls for her since she was born. She loves this one and we read it all the time.– Megan, New YorkDaja Kisubo in the Circle of Magic series by Tamora Pierce (recommended for ages 9-11)Daja is a freshly orphaned young black girl from a seafaring caravan of traders. Cast out by her people for being bad luck after the deaths of her family, she is taken in by a temple where she lives with three other young people with troubled pasts. She has a strong sense of justice and hard work, and is always a champion for her friends. She apprentices to an older blacksmith, Frostpine, who teaches her skilled and magical metalwork, and eventually becomes a master of her craft. In later books, as she grows older, she also falls in love with a woman, and this is treated as perfectly normal. Having grown up with Daja, her friends and their adventures, this was absolutely wonderful and unprecedented for childrens’ series at the time.– Hannah Catterall, Oxfordshire, 26, editorial assistantSade Solaja in The Other Side of Truth by Beverly Naidoo (recommended for ages 8-12)Sade’s father is an outspoken journalist who criticises the corrupt Nigerian government and thereby endangers his family. After witnessing the murder of her mother by government officials, Sade is trafficked out of Nigeria to the UK with her younger brother. Alone in London, Sade has to be brave, resilient and strong as she navigates the asylum-seeking system. I read it with my year seven English class. They were gripped from the beginning. It gave them a very personal reaction to the plight of refugees, as it shows a very different, more sympathetic view than that portrayed in today’s media.– Kate Nolan, 31, Smethwick, West Midlands, teacher      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sophie, as depicted in Hayao Miyazaki’s adaptation of Howl’s Moving Castle. Photograph: BuenaVist/Everett/Rex FeaturesSophie Hatter in Howl’s Moving Castle by Diana Wynne Jones (recommended for ages 8-12)Sophie is cursed by the Witch of the Waste and turns into an old woman – which makes her pretty invincible. She finds a confidence in being old that helps her discover her own magical ability and be pretty bossy, mainly in a useful way...I think it’s really interesting how Diana uses Sophie’s experience of being old to help her show her strength and capabilities. When she seems to be playing expected female roles like sewing, she turns out to be subverting them, as she actually is very powerfully enchanting clothes and hats as she sews.– Mymble, 30s, Scotland, teacherSusan Ferris from The Halfmen of O by Maurice Gee (recommended for ages 15+)Susan has been marked from birth to bring together the two halves, Good and Evil and save the World of O from the evil HalfMen. She’s just a young girl but she bravely takes up the quest even though her male cousin thinks she’s deluded. She fights a sinister regime led by the Otis Claw and wins, and restores the halves to their rightful balance, bringing peace and unity to a troubled planet.It’s a great book and so well written. And it’s nice to see characters from my own country saving the world. It was read to me when I was at school and I bought my own copy. Now I recommend it to everyone. – Steph Matuku, 43, New Zealand, freelance writerPrincess Pearl in Zog by Julia Donaldson (recommended for ages 2-6)Princess Pearl wants to be a doctor. She isn’t content to sit around a castle, waiting to get married. So she trains herself, meets a dragon, tells off the dragon and her would-be suitor for fighting over her like she’s not an autonomous human being and hires them in her new flying doctors business venture. In the sequel, she’s even more clearly against being pigeonholed as a pretty princess stuck in a castle.I like that she doggedly pursues her interests and ambitions in the face of continued pressure to sit around and look pretty. Not only that, she makes the male characters around her rethink their assumptions. I like reading the story to my three-year-old son to encourage him to challenge gender assumptions, too.– Alexis, Carshalton Beeches, LawyerThirrin in The Cry of the Icemark by Stuart Hill (recommended for ages 12+)Thirrin Freer Strong-in-the-Arm Lindenshield, is a teenage warrior princess, and later queen. She is about about as far from a Disney stereotype as possible. She is incredibly skilled with all types of weapons, she fights on the frontline and is generally badass. She is also a three-dimensional character with flaws – her headstrong nature being one of them – and really grows throughout the trilogy.– Richard, 21, physics student, YorkSuper Red Riding Hood by Claudia Davila (recommended for ages 3-7)Red Riding Hood is a little girl who demands the wolf use his manners. I like it when she stands with hands on hips. I bought this for my daughter along with many others recommended on A Mighty Girl. She loves it - a scary bit, a funny bit, and a girl with no superpowers but just skills and bravery who wins the day.– Jackie, 40, Australia, writerLolly Salt from Siren Sisters by Dana Langer (recommended for ages 9-13)Lolly, the main character, is by turns nervous, brave, loving, jealous, confident and insecure. She feels real and well-developed. And the book features an entire quartet of sisters, a lovely female teacher, a surprising sea witch, and two well-developed mother figures. The book is full of complex girls, and it’s actually difficult to choose just one empowering character. I love all of the interactions between Lolly and her sisters. They care for and support one another in a really subtle but touching way. They also run their family’s diner, and they’re funny too! – Rachel Herman, reading specialistWhat do you think? Share your suggestions in the comments below, and we’ll highlight a selection of the best.