State schools are putting pressure on parents to buy their children iPads to use in lessons, as a result of a lack of proper government funding for technology equipment, headteachers have warned.The National Association of Head Teachers says inadequate government funding is forcing schools to call for parents to pay for their children’s equipment. An investigation by Education Guardian found at least 15 state schools were asking some parents to purchase an iPad for their child, while offering help to disadvantaged families. Charities estimate hundreds of schools are doing the same.One school, Manor Church of England academy in York, recently told parents [pdf]: “We would now like to include year 7 in the iPads for Learning initiative and therefore ask that you provide an iPad for your son/daughter.”Could Steiner schools have a point on children, tablets and tech? If parents participate in the school’s contribution scheme, an insured iPad with a case and a three-year warranty will cost between £414 and £468 in 36 monthly instalments, depending on the model. Alternatively, students may bring in iPads they already own. Hardship funds are available and children who receive free school meals get at least a 46% discount, while siblings get at least a 33% discount.The school’s director of finance, Simon Bryan-Smith, says it subsidises every iPad bought via the scheme. “It would be fantastic not to have to ask parents to contribute, but we have to work within a budget and school budgets are continually being hit,” he says.Even after parental contributions, Bryan-Smith estimates that the cost of the school’s subsidies and discounts – along with other costs, such as providing iPads for teachers – means it spends about £45,000 a year on iPads. He argues that schools that run iPad learning schemes should be given a larger IT budget. “At the moment, if parents don’t contribute, we can’t run the scheme.”Other schools agree. “We do not receive any government funding for … this, so we need to ask parents to … make a contribution towards the running costs,” Heathfield community college in East Sussex states on its website, adding that the school had committed significant funds to the scheme. “A new wireless network has been installed, online resources have been purchased or subscribed to, staff continue to undergo a full training programme. Heathfield is also committed to significantly subsidising the cost of the scheme year on year [but] we can only run this scheme if parents are prepared to contribute.”Conyers school in North Yorkshire states in its FAQs [pdf]: “Embedding technology in the classroom, alongside traditional learning, has been shown to enhance learning. iPads provide an opportunity for students to really extend and enrich their learning. Unfortunately, as a school, we cannot afford to buy this technology for everyone.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pupils at Ormskirk school using an iPads in their science lessons. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianAll of these schools, along with others whose policies we looked at in detail, offered financial assistance or even a free iPad to parents on low incomes. A small number also offered sibling discounts of between 25% and 100%.Although some schools will make exceptions, most parents will be expected to pay for their child’s device. Schools will usually allow parents to pay in instalments, but will automatically include “extras” such as a case, extended warranty, insurance and apps in the price, which can push up costs.At one school, parents who do not qualify for a discount are asked to pay £785 in 36 monthly instalments for a fully insured 64GB iPad Air 2. The same device, bought upfront without extras, would cost £429 direct from Apple. Another school asks some parents to contribute £990 over five years (in this case, a fully insured 64GB iPad Air 2 will be replaced, free of charge, with a newer model after three years).Both schools – and many others – allow children to bring in their own devices. But, because of the cost and problems involved in supporting multi-platform teaching on different tablets, several of the schools we looked at specify these must be iPads, even if the child owns a cheaper Android tablet. Some of these schools, such as Hove Park school in Brighton, describe themselves as “Apple schools”.If parents don’t participate in an iPad scheme, all the schools we looked at would offer to loan a school iPad in lessons (but not, usually, at home) – if there are enough. However, most schools emphasise to parents that the school needs their financial contributions to support the scheme.“As a matter of national policy, we must question the practice of asking parents to pay for iPads,” says Russell Hobby, general secretary of NAHT. “Not every family will be able to afford it, but some may feel obligated to do so. Where technology is required in support of learning, the government should fund it properly rather than forcing schools into such a position.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alex WoodAlex Wood, senior assistant headteacher at Ormskirk school in Lancashire, said the reason his school wanted children to have iPads was primarily an educational one. “When students have choice and control over how they work, can collaborate easily and receive good feedback, they are more likely to progress. With 1:1 iPad access, students can learn in ways that suit them, and our teachers can work more productively, providing increasingly personalised learning opportunities.”Faced with a lack of government support, some schools are turning to the Learning Foundation, a charity that aims to inspire learning through technology, to ensure their iPad schemes are affordable for all parents. The charity is working with 50 state schools on schemes that ask parents to make voluntary contributions to the charity, which will then fund the purchase of mobile computing devices such as iPads for all the pupils in a year group. The “suggested contribution” is typically £10 a month for three years, but there is no set minimum. No iPads will be purchased unless enough parents donate the funds to provide a device for each child in the year, regardless of how much that individual child’s parent has contributed.However, the charity estimates that hundreds of other schools are working with more commercial organisations. Our investigation suggests parents of children at these schools are typically asked to pay set prices for iPads.On social media, parents across the country report feeling under pressure from schools. One mother, who would give her name only as “Helen” to prevent her son’s school in the Midlands from identifying her, told the Guardian: “We couldn’t really say no, could we? I wasn’t going to allow my son to be the only one in the class who didn’t have an iPad and had to borrow one.”Even though she has four children, Helen’s household income of £40,000 meant she was not offered financial assistance, and had to spread her monthly iPad payments over three years to afford the device. She is now saving to buy iPads for her younger children outright when they start at the school. In total, the scheme will cost her more than £1,400 at current prices.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Russell Hobby Photograph: Martin Godwin for the Guardian“It’s a lot of money and I’d rather not have had to pay it, on principle. I can see the benefits and I can see how schools can’t afford to provide such things, but I’ll have to make cutbacks to afford all these iPads.” She resents the way the school introduced the scheme to parents in front of the children. “Of course, my son leaped up and down with excitement. It made me feel like I had to buy it.”Children’s charities criticised schools for adding to parents’ financial pressures. “If iPads are now considered essential school equipment – in the same way as textbooks were for previous generations – schools should provide them,” says Dame Hilary Blume, director of the Charities Advisory Trust.“State education must be free for all children,” says Jan Tallis, of School-Home Support, a charity helping disadvantaged children overcome educational barriers. “While technology can offer wonderful educational opportunities, it can’t come at the expense of parents who are unable to afford it.”The Department for Education refused to comment on the funding issues raised by the NAHT. However, it emphasised that schools cannot require a parent or pupil to pay for, or to have to supply, any equipment for the purposes of their education.“Schools may ask parents for voluntary contributions for the cost of equipment, but they must be clear in making such requests that any contributions or purchases are voluntary, and that children will not be treated any differently according to whether or not their parent has paid,” a spokesperson said. It advised parents to raise their concerns with the school and, if necessary, make a formal complaint.Students who use digital devices in class 'perform worse in exams' But are iPads even necessary?No – technology is nice to have but only when it is used with purpose, says Tom Bennett, director of researchED, which aims to improve understanding of educational researchTech can be great in the classroom, but schools are often seduced by the promise technology offers without considering if its use is warranted. One of the biggest problems is that the claims of tech enthusiasts are frequently unsubstantiated by the evidence; a recent report by the OECD pointed out that school systems that invest heavily in tech see no perceptible gains compared with those that do not.Another problem is that tech is frequently used in classrooms as a substitute for activities and strategies that have aims that can be achieved without it.For example, how often are students given an internet research task that could be as easily achieved by giving them targeted materials? Using tech to simply keep a room occupied is the opposite of teaching.Many teachers and school leaders believe the hype about tech adoption without simply asking: “What problem am I trying to solve with this strategy?” or “What do I want this to achieve?” It’s an expensive mistake to make in days of dwindling budgets.