We all know it’s bad to fat-shame women. But I’ve seen more and more articles fat-shaming men. That’s equality, right?The British tabloids, BritainWell, only if you think that the way to rectify overcooking your dinner one night is to burn down your entire kitchen the next. I can just about understand your stance here, but, personally, I’m of the school that two wrongs just make a bigger wrong.Let’s look at what is actually going on here. Call me a big ol’ cynic, but I’m not entirely convinced that writing 1,500 words about how paunchy some fiftysomething actor looks these days is really part of the fight for gender equality.For a long time, certain British tabloids have seemed a little confused about how the ageing process works. “Famous woman looks different than she did 40 years ago!” is a standard article for a slow news day. I suspect there is a blank template stored on a server at the Daily Mail so the reporters can simply fill in the blanks: “Former sex kittten [fill in name here], who once lived a fabulous life of glamour, was spotted this weekend in [put unglamorous location]. But not even her most dedicated fans, who once included Warren Beatty and Rod Stewart, would have recognised the fat and frumpy granny as the woman Terry Wogan once described as ‘the reason God invented bikinis’...” And so on.In the past fortnight, there have been lengthy articles about how Johnny Depp 2016 looks different to Johnny Depp 1996 and, on Friday, there was a piece of almost hysterical bitterness about how Hugh Grant, 55, looks – can you believe it? Can you? – like a 55-year-old man.Now, considering men have been ageing for a while now, I think we have to give the Mail the benefit of the doubt here and assume that, despite what these articles might suggest, the paper hasn’t just noticed this phenomenon. So, something else must be going on. With Depp, since this piece came out the day his divorce was announced, but before the domestic abuse allegations emerged (which Depp has denied), it felt more like a placeholder until they had actual dirt to throw at him. With Grant, however, given that he is a prominent critic of newspaper malpractice, it struck me more as yet another example of how the Mail uses body-shaming as a weapon against its enemies. Which then leads, of course, to the obvious conclusion that the Mail must see women as enemies, given how it body-shames them every single, blessed day.But that’s a subject for another day, given the scarcity of space here. So, let’s just say that calling famous men “paunchy” is not the feminist dream realised. Never mind about your “moobs”, Hugh – come sit by me and let’s burn our bras and certain newspapers.I keep seeing the name Poppy Delevingne in style magazines. Who is she, and does it matter that I don’t know?Donald, by email      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Who’s that girl? Poppy Delevingne at the Met Ball in New York last month. Photograph: Stephen Lovekin/Rex/ShutterstockI have pondered both of those matters myself, Donald, and at some length. Curiously, my research has only thrown up more questions. Google Delevingne’s name and you get with yet more puzzling names of people who apparently make up her all-important social circle. Mary Charteris? Immy Waterhouse? Are these actual people or characters from a Barbara Taylor Bradford novel? And why do fashion companies keep throwing random parties for them?After several months, possibly years, of investigation, I have concluded that they are all models/DJs/whatevers, and frequently from aristocratic backgrounds, which explains how they can live without, apparently, having actual jobs, unless they simply eat the free clothes Karl Lagerfeld gives them (Chanel has no calories – fact).I rather fancy these people were put on Earth purely to enrage good Guardian readers, what with all their pointless privilege and inability to imagine a life beyond SW3. But, as an American, I find them utterly fascinating. Watching them pretend to DJ at fashion shows is probably the closest I’ll come to stepping inside a biography about the Mitfords, because playing Beyoncé at a Pucci show is just the kind of thing Diana Guinness would be doing had she been born 100 years later. Conversely, these people also serve as a useful reminder not to romanticise aristos and muses from eras past, as people have a tendency to do, given that they were all as ridiculous as their modern-day counterparts. So, really, I see these young women as performing a social good, which is not something you can say often about a bunch of 25-year-olds Instagramming selfies at Coachella while showing off their Anya Hindmarch freebies.Post your questions to Hadley Freeman, Ask Hadley, The Guardian, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. Email ask.hadley@theguardian.com.