Increasing the UK’s breastfeeding rates could save the NHS £40m a year, a leading public health academic has claimed. According to recent figures, Britain has the lowest breastfeeding rate in the world.Low UK breastfeeding rates down to social pressures over routine and sleep Amy Brown, an associate professor in public health at Swansea University, says a growing number of British parents are choosing to feed their children with formula milk, despite the increased risk of gastroenteritis and respiratory illnesses. She plans to address the British Science Festival on the issue and to call for more funding and better support for new mothers.She said: “Breastfeeding should be normal behaviour. However, in this country it sparks high levels of debate in the press and online – much of which can be highly critical of breastfeeding or examples of when a mother has experienced a problem when feeding her child this way.“Despite the promotion that ‘breast is best’, we do not follow it up with actions to support new mothers. More people here believe that smacking is acceptable than believe that breastfeeding in public is OK. If we could raise breastfeeding rates by just two-thirds, we could save the NHS £40m a year as excess appointments for babies fed on formula milk, who are more prone to illness, would no longer be needed.”Earlier this year, figures published in the Lancet medical journal revealed that only one in every 200 British children – 0.5% – is breastfed until the age of 12 months. Brown said the figures were depressing and pointed to the 98% rate in Scandinavian countries and 27% in the US, where mothers can only get four weeks’ maternity leave before having to return to work.Babies breastfed within an hour of birth are less likely to die. Yet only 50% are | Frace Begin She said: “Is the reason for the low figures because of physical problems? No. There are only 2% of women in the UK who are unable to breastfeed because of a physical problem or because of medication that they are on. The situation has arisen because of society creating huge problems.”As well as “self-styled experts” promoting products that can damage breastfeeding, Brown argues that formula companies also use “clever tactics” in targeting mothers. She said: “Alongside this, new mothers face significant social pressure to ‘get their lives back’ quickly after having a baby – by socialising, getting back in their jeans and keeping their partner happy – which can make breastfeeding so overwhelming.“Despite more than 90% of mothers in the UK wanting to breastfeed, more than half [of babies] have had some formula by the end of their first week. Overall, the UK has the lowest breastfeeding rate in the world. Until we challenge attitudes and take better care of our new mothers and truly support them, we will not see rates rise.”Brown will examine the issue further in her upcoming book Breastfeeding Uncovered, which will be published in October. The British Science Festival is taking place in Swansea until 9 September.