I take three pink pills every morning, small ones, kept on my bedside table in a bright yellow box. Because they look so enticing and so sugary-sweet, I swallow them in full view of my son, part of our morning ritual before I drop him off at care. He knows that they are “Mummy medicine”, pills I need to keep me healthy, and that without them I feel very tired, and sometimes sad. At four years old, he has watched me swallow pills for half of his short life.We’ve talked about the fact this medicine is just for adults; he knows to keep his distance from anything in sealed-up foil. I am grateful that he accepts my need for medication as part of normal life; I am grateful for a chance to feel “normal”, insofar as antidepressants keep me on an even keel. Mostly I am grateful that his memories stretch back for so short a time, and that he’s never seen me deep in the grips of depression. I’ve had periods of depression on and off throughout my life, but after Owen was born, I sank swiftly and inexorably into a period of postnatal depression that nearly killed me. I’ve been writing about this time, and soon my first book will come out, a collection of essays about what this experience has been like. Ariel Levy, Krissy Kneen, Cat Marnell – literary highlights for Australia in March And while I feel as though I have always been open about my struggles with mental health, I’m taken aback by the number of people who have looked at me when I’ve told them about the book with faces full of self-reproach and pity, and said, “Oh my God, I’m so sorry. I didn’t know.” It’s hard, even now, not to hear this expression of sympathy as an accusation. It carries for me the shadow of a question I am still trying hard to answer. When somebody says, “I didn’t know” what I hear is, “Why didn’t you tell me?” and unlike the explanation you can give to a child, the answer isn’t simple, it isn’t neat, it isn’t pat.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Australian author Jessica Friedmann and her son. Photograph: Supplied by authorI didn’t tell you because at the time, I felt like I was at the bottom of a well. I didn’t tell you because the words, when I grasped for them, took shape and flew off, like a colony of startled bats. I didn’t tell you because you came to my house and told me jokes and settled in and snuggled the baby, and because for half an hour, while we gossiped, I felt like a woman again, Jessica, and not a mother-shaped void. I didn’t tell you because the walls were sometimes so close that I forgot that there was anything beyond them, and that anyone existed but my mother, my husband, my reflection, and my child. When you did send me a text message, though, I was so grateful to be reminded that I existed that I cried. I didn’t tell you because I didn’t think there was anything you could do. I didn’t think there was anything anybody could do. I didn’t tell you because I didn’t want you to worry about me. I didn’t tell you because I didn’t want to carry the weight of your concern. I felt so raw and so unshielded that any emotion, love or kindness or compassion, felt too impossibly painful to bear. One in seven women experiences postnatal mental illness every year in Australia, approximately 100,000 new parents. I imagine that their reasons for keeping silent are different, diffuse, but just as complex as mine. I know that shame prevents a lot of us from speaking up for help, the overwhelming stigma of what it means when you don’t love your child. Culture plays a part; patriarchy, too. I did tell my psychiatrist at the hospital, and my husband, in the end. I told them not in words but in mute, halting gestures. Because I had family and community support, the psychiatrist let me go home with a prescription folded tightly in my handbag. I was still suicidal, but Mother and Baby Units are in incredibly high demand, and wanting to hurt yourself is not uncommon. Of Victoria’s six MBUs, only three are publicly covered, and the waiting list is long. The others cost $1000-$2000 per night, with a waiting list that is only slightly shorter. It was easier – and necessary – to crawl into bed and try very hard not to think.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Things That Helped, a book on postpartum depression by Australian writer Jessica Friedmann, out through Scribe in April 2017 Photograph: Scribe publishingIn writing my book I’ve been trying to work out the reasons that we don’t talk about postnatal depression more broadly, as a medical crisis and a major feminist issue. One obvious issue is that it’s hard to advocate for yourself when you’re in the grips of a crisis. Recovery is a long process and it’s raw and bloody difficult. What we need, desperately, is radically increased institutional support. Suicide is the leading cause of maternal death in pregnancy and the first year of a child’s life; it absolutely need not be. Postnatal mental illness is not a new phenomenon, it is only a chronically ignored and underfunded one. We might not be able to speak, but that does not excuse the fact that the system is not set up to listen. What I try to say to people who express their sympathy now—whose shock and sadness don’t scour me anymore, but only cause a pang—is a version of what I tell my child in the morning. I’m OK, now, I’m taking medication, I am still sick and sad from time to time but it’s nothing really to worry about. Like nearly everyone whose motherhood is smudged by postnatal illness, I have been changed a little; but I am not so battered now, not so bruised. I know that not everybody who experiences postnatal mental illness will want to speak about it. Not everyone can. Most will recover, given time, and find joy and fresh love; this is what I wish for everyone, every parent. But there are women in our midst who are slipping away quietly, and I know because I was one of them. And now that I have my voice back, I’m not ready to stop talking. • Things That Helped by Jessica Friedmann is out now through Scribe.