The plastic bag levy will damage the environment unless the alternatives have impeccable environmental attributes – and most of them don’t (New plastic bag tax does not go far enough, say campaigners, 5 October).The exemptions alone will undermine most of the putative savings. Not only that, but, if we had a better waste-disposal system using efficient combined heat and power incinerators, we could capture the energy from the “borrowed oil” which plastic bags represent. Only 5% of crude oil is used to make all of the plastics we use, and plastic bags are only about 5% of that. A single car trip to the supermarket each week wastes more energy and creates more pollution than a dozen plastic bags.In any case, all the alternatives to plastic bags come with questions about their environmental impact. Making paper bags uses four times as much energy, creates 50 times more water pollution and 70% more air pollution than plastic bags. And they are rarely used more than once.Making long-lasting bags from cotton/jute and suchlike also comes with environmental penalties. Cotton isn’t the nice innocent “green” product that people think it is. Massive amounts of water and polluting pesticides are used growing cotton, while the energy used in making and shipping woven bags is also vastly higher.A report from the UK’s Environment Agency in 2011 concluded that a cotton bag would have to be reused 171 times to match the carbon dioxide pollution of a typical thin plastic bag used just once.Despite the Guardian’s “Keep it in the ground” campaign, the real problem is the wasteful use of oil in our cars, trucks, homes, offices and factories. That’s where 95% of the oil goes, and most of the resultant waste products are discharged right on the streets where we live.David ReedLondon• I’m all for supermarkets charging 5p per bag – it seems reasonable to me. One thing, though. Will the 5p bags be plain ones without any advertisements or logos on them? I always thought that the free advertising shops got was part of the free bag deal.From now on, I will expect to be offered plain bags at the checkout. Otherwise, I will need to charge for any plastic bag I pay for that has any advertising on it. I was thinking of charging a small amount, say 5p – it seems reasonable to me.Ken WardCrewe, Cheshire• In the north Pacific there is a gigantic whirlpool, twice the size of Texas (Excess baggage, G2, 1 October). It is a floating mass of our discarded plastic – The Great Pacific Garbage Patch. This raw, non-biodegradable image should cause us such pain that we will never ask for another plastic bag, or buy any non-essential product if it uses plastic in any shape or form. Enough is already too much.Jennifer LeachReading, Berkshire• “Excess baggage” reminds me of my visits to Rwanda. President Paul Kagame’s government banned non-degradable plastic bags in 2008. It isn’t just in the beautiful city of Kigali, with its manicured lawns and flower beds, that I found a complete absence of litter, but far out in “The land of a thousand hills” too, where a truly green and pleasant land is completely free of polyethylene grot.Frank PaiceNorwich• There are some, I fear, who will escape the 5p tax on plastic bags yet deserve to be charged. I live on a small council estate in the shires. About twice a month (24 times a year) charities deliver plastic bags within plastic bags asking for them to be filled with unwanted clothes. If unwanted clothes are not available, the charity asks that the bags-within-bags be placed outside the address for later collection, presumably for reuse. In five years of living here, none of those empty bags have ever been collected and are therefore disposed of by way of the council’s general rubbish collection.If a very generous calculation were to be attempted – 10m UK homes x 48 bags per annum – the calculator on my mobile phone suggests that the result is “out of range”. Will charities get away with it?Roger GoughStroud, Gloucestershire