Anatomy of a Song is a “jukebox oral history” of 45 iconic pop, rock and R&B hits - and a treasure trove of music trivia between hard covers. The book is an expansion of columns Marc Myers first wrote for the Wall Street Journal, each one taken from interviews with the writers, performers and producers of classics such as Light My Fire, My Girl, Please Mr Postman, London Calling and dozens more.These songs were the backbone of 60s youth culture, an era when friends still invited each other over to “stare at the speakers”, as Myers told me in an interview near his apartment on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. When he and his friends weren’t listening to the latest hits at home, they all had transistor radios with “flesh-colored ear-pieces” jammed into their ears.Booze, murder and D-I-V-O-R-C-E: Curly Putman's finest songs In 1968, Keith Richards told Myers that he realized that his generation was “bursting at the seams” and the one thing holding it together was that practically everyone under 30 was devoted to the music they listened to on the radio.“There was something religious to me about music,” Myers says.Myers was born in 1956 in upper Manhattan and She Loves You by the Beatles was the first 45 he ever bought at Kappy’s, his local record store. But he veered off into jazz at an early age. He blamed that on Billy Taylor, who came to his junior high school and gave out 45s of his infectious jazz instrumental, I Wish I Knew How It Would Feel to Be Free.Myers discovered that jazz also gave him something to talk about with the adults his artist-parents invited to boisterous parties, including notable musicians like Burl Ives and Pete Seeger. “I loved the Dave Clark Five and the Beatles,” he says. “But by 1968, once the drug culture deliberately started entering the album consciousness, I just had this aversion. I just loved everything so much, that the thought of having to take something that would enhance it just didn’t seem practical.” After all, he was only 12. So he turned from rock to jazz.His new book gave him a chance to go “back to finish what I had started as a kid. It’s almost as if I abandoned a family of music when I went to jazz and then came back to revisit what I loved.”Music was at the center of the lives of 70 million American baby boomers, partly because there were far fewer distractions in an era before smartphones and personal computers had been invented. “You heard it on the radio and you wanted to know more about it. So you went to the record store. You wanted to find out what your friends were listening to. There was more curiosity about it.”Did the music shape the culture or the culture shape the music?“It’s kind of a two-way street,” he says. “The culture changes but there are also external forces that changed the music. Over the course of five decades the music expressed the desires and anxieties of several generations. Wars, social upheaval, the civil rights movement, women’s liberation, drugs, poverty, suburbia and even immigration all had an influence on pop music and the development of its many sub genres.” At the same time, he said, “music gave voice to many of these movements, providing them with confidence and hope, helping them set goals, and intensifying their drive to achieve them. Music energizes change”.Myers’ curiosity spurred him to many hours of research before every interview, so that he could always go beyond what was already known about a particular song. In most cases he only had 20 minutes on the phone with each subject. “For me it’s not unlike defusing a bomb,” he said. “In other words, the little red digital ticker says 20 minutes and it starts ticking down. And I’ve got a very short period of time to warm them up, make them trust me, and then open up before either their patience wears out or they literally have to go because they’ve got obligations ... Three artists that stand out were Merle Haggard, Stevie Wonder and Joni Mitchell.” He describes each as “a wonderful storyteller with enormous passion”.“Stevie sang Love’s in Need of Love Today on the phone to me to illustrate a point. And Joni surfaced all of her feelings during my two hours at her home in 2014. Carey [an early Mitchell song inspired by the island of Crete] was a tender, personal story, and she let me inside.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Myers chose Dion’s Runaround Sue because he thinks Dion “is more significant than one realizes: he’s the first of the vulnerable male swaggerers – in almost every song he’s either jilted or he got double-timed, something happened to him”.And while every 50s pop music aficionado knows that Dion and Waylon Jennings were the two singers who did not get on the plane that crashed and killed Buddy Holly, Ritchie Valens and JP “The Big Bopper” Richardson, Myers found out exactly what it was that spooked Dion into staying off of that flight.“Dion’s parents fought bitterly when he was a kid over the $36 rent – ‘Why don’t you have the money? Why didn’t you pay it on time?’ was all he heard as a kid. And when Dion asked Buddy Holly how much a seat on the airplane was going to cost him, Holly replied: “$36.” The number shocked the singer from the Bronx, and he refused to pay it. “It was like the Queen of Diamonds in The Manchurian Candidate,” says Myers. “And Dion’s like, ‘Whoa!’“I told him, ‘Good thing it wasn’t $35 or $37 bucks!”What were the biggest surprises? “Even the most charismatic artists like Mick Jagger, Rod Stewart and Stevie Wonder experience loneliness and anxiety, which they use to write great songs; many hit songs were accidents or last-minute additions to albums; and every great song was influenced by several other great songs recorded years ago.”In the pre-digital age of analog recording, Myers discovered some remarkable examples of mechanical ingenuity. Two of my favorites: Kinks guitarist Dave Davies had just learned how to shave when he bought a new amp and decided to use a razor blade to slash the amp’s speaker cone (“When I plugged in the guitar, I was blown away by the raucous sound!”). And when the Doors were told to shorten the seven-minute version of Light My Fire for a single that would get more radio play, their producer Paul Rothchild “wrapped Scotch tape around the spindle holding the pickup reel, so the tape would turn a fraction faster. This made the pitch a little higher and brighter, and the song was more urgent”.Myers is particularly good on the competition within bands and between them to produce the best possible songs. “I guess the Beatles set sort of a Wizard of Oz level for everybody,” said Myers. “‘Wow, if we could go into Shea Stadium...’”Bob Dylan’s influence on the Beatles (and vice versa) is very well known, but until I read Myers’ book I never imagined Dylan’s “talk-singing” style had even influenced Motown classics. Legendary Motown songwriter Lamont Dozier told Myers that it did: “Dylan was the poet then ... a guy we looked up to.” So when the Four Tops recorded Reach Out, Dozier told lead vocalist Levi Stubbs to “shout-sing the lyrics–as a shout-out to Dylan”. That was the unlikely cross-pollination at the heart of so many of the classics which are so rightly celebrated in this splendid volume.