Nick Clegg's pop video just adds to a long list of campaign howlers Who knew that Nick Clegg would be the guy to shine a light on the latest viral video trend? Last month news broke that, as part of his general election campaign last year, Clegg – the ironed C&A Y-front of politics – had secretly recreated pop singer Carly Rae Jepsen’s video for I Really Like You, shot for shot. The original saw Tom Hanks miming amiably and fist-bumping strangers in Manhattan; this ersatz version had Clegg slopping out clammy high fives in Gravesend, while looking as if he might actually burst into tears because of what his life now is.But while Clegg’s attempt was a misfire and buried before the public could see it, this peculiar trend is taking off much better in the US. They’ve found popularity with chatshow host Jimmy Kimmel, who regularly apes pop promos with the likes of Paul Rudd and Jack Black. Now it’s even making its way into music.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In July, for her single Honey, US singer Charlene Kaye traced over the video for Weezer’s Undone: The Sweater Song. For LA production duo Classixx’s track with T-Pain, Just Let Go, they remade the Smiths’ Stop Me If You’ve Heard This One Before. Cue T-Pain donning NHS specs and biking around the streets, just as Morrissey did in 1987. Whether he “went method” and also became an uppity arse is unclear.Is this simply what happens, then, when you’re out of ideas? For many, the reason behind these shot-for-shot videos actually goes a bit deeper. Just Let Go director Daniel Pappas decided to mimic Mozzer due to T-Pain’s struggles with depression and the “shared sadness of Smiths fans”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Viral video: Pokémon Go, Justin Timberlake and Cumberbatch's Sherlock These videos use the mythos of one act to layer on extra context to another, but they can subvert it, too, as is the case with the new video for Hooking Up With Girls by alt-rockers It Was Romance, fronted by NYC comedian Lane Moore. They’ve recreated Fiona Apple’s 1996 vid Criminal, which addressed voyeurism and sexuality with a barely clothed Apple, but replaced men with women to reflect its focus on “hook-up culture, specifically for queer women”. Like Classixx, Moore wanted to make an emotional link between the inspiration and imitation. Apple’s video was “seedy, frustrating, confusing and overwhelming – all themes in my song” she says.Nostalgia has such a viral value it’s easy to be cynical about these videos, but they are far from parody: there’s meaning behind these replications, whether it’s fandom, shared feeling or, in Nick Clegg’s case, utter, bottomless desperation. Someone check he’s OK, yeah?It Was Romance’s self-titled album is out now