For over 50 years, the BBC has been a leader in wildlife programming: from Animal Magic to Life on Earth and more recently, Springwatch. Now, as part of its cost-cutting measures, the BBC executive board has announced that the BBC Wildlife Fund is to close. This will be a tragedy not just for the BBC and its award-winning Natural History Unit in Bristol but more importantly for wildlife conservation across the world.Yet as a legally separate charity, abolishing the fund will not save the BBC any money, so why do it? "The BBC has a clear commitment to a number of charities and we are proud of our achievements in support of the Wildlife Fund," said a BBC spokesperson. "However, as with the many difficult choices we currently face, we must focus our efforts in areas where we can have the most impact. We have therefore regrettably concluded that we can no longer support fundraising programming around our wildlife output but will instead focus our appeals around Children in Need, Comic and Sport Relief. We remain committed to working with the Wildlife Fund's Trustees to find other ways to support wildlife and conservation charities."The fund was set up in 2007 and has since raised nearly £3m, which has helped to support over 87 projects. Many of these involve globally endangered species ranging from the albatross to orangutans to the Ethiopian wolf. But the fund has also helped our beleaguered wildlife closer to home, recently announcing a project to radio track cuckoos, a British bird that is in serious decline.The decision to wind up the charity has been greeted with a chorus of criticism from many of the big conservation organisations. They have joined forces to launch an online petition urging the BBC's chairman, Lord Patten, to think again and save the charity. The petition has already attracted nearly 2,000 signatures in just a few days. Its supporters include Mark Avery, the former director of conservation at the RSPB, who said on his blog: "At a time when government has slashed funding for nature conservation this is a further blow to nature. I really admired the BBC when it started this fund and I would be very disappointed if it did go ahead and abolish it."Despite its popularity the fund is not beyond criticism, as it is, like the BBC itself, overly bureaucratic. And for a supposedly independent charity its board contains far too many BBC bigwigs. But the BBC's statement suggests the real reason for its demise lays in comparisons with other fundraising events such as Children in Need, Comic Relief and Sports Relief, all of which in the eyes of the BBC executive are easier to sell to the public and have a much higher profile. What they seem to forget is that all these events took many years to become established and were born in a very different political and economic climate.The fund's low profile can be laid directly at the door of the Orwellian BBC press office which seems to exert a complete stranglehold over the whole corporation. As a freelance journalist I made repeated requests over the past year to report on the funds work in the field but was continually denied access by the press office, leading me in the end to submit a freedom of information request. As I suspect other journalists were treated in a similar manner, the charity unsurprisingly received very little in the way of positive publicity.But these are minor criticisms against what the fund has achieved. It has shown the BBC's willingness to give something back to nature and been a vital source of funding at a time when government spending on the environment has dried up. Amy Coyte, its director, sums up its legacy when she says: "The BBC Wildlife Fund is proud to have raised millions of pounds and supported vital conservation work both in the UK and abroad, work which has clearly made a real difference to threatened wildlife".The only person who can now reprieve the fund is Patten, who was formerly an environment secretary under Margaret Thatcher. He then championed the controversial Environmental Protection Act 1990, a landmark piece of legislation steered through parliament against the free market instincts of the Tory party. But given the cut-throat climate at the BBC, will Patton once again have the political courage to go against his own executive board and save the fund?