Where should you go if you want to feel happier?Until recently, there’s been little data available to help you objectively answer that question. Surveys of subjective wellbeing tend to be infrequent, and their results often provide only a very general sense of location.Today, however, the world of street-scale happiness data is coming into its own thanks to the emergence of geotagged social media. Never before have we been so open and geographically specific about our feelings. When our musings enter the Twitterverse, their emotional content can be mapped and followed in real time.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A map of New York showing the happiest (greenest) and least happy (reddest) areas of the city.Check out the full map here. Photograph: Yaneer Bar-YamPatterns in what we share can offer insights into the local geography of happiness. For example, when researchers Yaneer Bar-Yam and Roozbeh Daneshvar – who generated the above map – considered hundreds of thousands of tweets at once, they found that public parks are fountains of happiness in New York City, and that sentiment generally deteriorates the further one travels from Times Square. So more greenery might help improve wellbeing.Meanwhile, the entrances to tunnels and bridges – like the Midtown Tunnel and the Brooklyn Bridge – are unsurprisingly epicenters of bad moods, renewing arguments that congestion problems need to be addressed.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A global map of happy and sad hotspots, as determined by Twitter.Check out the full interactive map here. Photograph: Yaneer Bar-YamRikers Island, where 85% of inmates are awaiting trial, emits especially unhappy tweets.The results also contain curiosities, such as the finding that the Palisades park in Brooklyn and the Weehawken Cemetery in New Jersey are much sadder than Brooklyn’s Holy Cross cemetery. And the data suggests a means of monitoring potential urban improvements, as in the case of Maspeth Creek, occasionally known as “shit creek” due to the untreated sewage that frequently flows into it. This waterway was once the site of an oil spill that left it with a 15-foot deep layer of chemicals that scientists termed “black mayonnaise”. Tweet maps show that people express unhappiness when they go there. The question is whether sentiment improves with attempts to clean and restore the area.Looking at a week of happiness data, the public mood in a workaholic metropolis is predictable. A tide of the blues spreads out from Manhattan at around 9am, presumably when people arrive at work. Afternoons bring a bit more joy than mornings, with a peak when schools close. New Yorkers are at their best at midnight, when they are probably a few glasses in. Then it’s downhill until sunrise.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest To harvest the data, Bar-Yam and Daneshvar trained a computer program to detect positive or negative sentiments by providing it with a sample of tweets containing emoticons.An alternative method measures the happiness of tweets based on the individual words that compose them. Workers at Amazon’s Mechanical Turk (a service that provides a large number of freelancers who can complete small, remote tasks) rated the positivity of the 10,000 most commonly used words in Google Books, the New York Times and other sources from 1 (saddest) to 9 (happiest).Peter Sheridan Dodds and his team at the University of Vermont then programmed a computer to apply these scores to geotagged tweets as they are published across the US, offering ongoing happiness assessments of states and cities.By this measure, Hawaii often scores as the happiest state, and Napa, California, as one of the happiest cities.Meanwhile Louisiana and Beaumont, Texas, typically come in last.Are gendered toys harming childhood development? The advantage of Dodd’s approach is that it offers a sense of what exactly is affecting people’s happiness in different places. Hawaiians, for example, happily tweet about beaches. Unhappy words correlate closely with obesity rates across the country – and “McDonalds” correlates more strongly than any other word with obesity (beating “wings” and “eat”).It seems that rather than heading out for a burger, a more effective pick-me-up would be staying in and watching Sex and the City. Dodds has also applied the word scores to movie scripts, and can tell you which of any two well-known movies has the more upbeat dialogue: Sex and the City beats all the competition.Perhaps all this seems like just a bit of fun. After all, it’s easy to argue that anonymous tweets don’t really help city planning because they over-represent the young, and that Twitter contains nothing more substantial than bubbles of temporary sentiment. But Dodds and his colleagues find that the happiness scores of the words in geotagged tweets do indeed correlate with more in-depth population surveys of subjective wellbeing.So, as you go about your day, go ahead and tweet your feelings to the world. Someone with the power to alleviate traffic jams, plant more trees on your block or stock your local library with old Sex and the City DVDs just might be listening. 