      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Maria FriedmanThis year is the 40th anniversary of the Olivier theatre awards, and tonight the BBC Concert Orchestra celebrates four decades of musical theatre in a one-off concert at London’s Royal Festival Hall. Stars including Michael Ball, Elaine Paige and Clive Rowe will be joining Maria Friedman to perform a selection of songs from some of the most celebrated musicals to have won – or been nominated for – the prestigious awards. The show’s director, and holder of a record six nominations in the Best Actress in a Musical category, Maria Friedman has picked her 10 favourite Olivier winners, and tells us why they are special to her. Dame Joan Plowright and Sir Laurence Olivier: Saturday, Sunday, Monday   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a trailer for the film version of Saturday, Sunday, MondayLaurence Olivier won the Society of London Theatre’s special award in 1979The awards were renamed in Lord Olivier’s honour in 1984, so it seems appropriate to start with one of my favourite of his performances. Olivier and his wife Dame Joan Plowright were electric in the National Theatre’s production of Saturday, Sunday, Monday. It was the first time my mother took the entire family to the theatre. I’ll never forget the smell of the big pot of ragu that was cooking on the stage. Afterwards we went out for spaghetti bolognaise – it remains my favourite dish.A Chorus Line   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The cast of A Chorus Line perform at the Olivier awardsThe original production won best new musical in 1976, the first year of the awardsA Chorus Line is one of the most dazzling productions to ever grace the West End. It is a story of artistic struggle which all performers can relate to, plus the ground-breaking staging and choreography make it unique and ever-relevant. Little did I know as an 18-year-old that 20 years later I would be performing What I Did for Love with its composer Marvin Hamlisch at the piano.Sweeney Todd   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Footage of Sweeney Todd’s original castThe original 1980 London production won best new musical in 1980, subsequent productions won best musical revival in 1994 and 2013This is the musical that changed my life and started a life-long love of the work of Stephen Sondheim. The 1980 production, which won Best New Musical, and the subsequent revivals are a testament to the power of his music and lyrics. With Sondheim, every note and every word matters. After the first ten minutes I felt like the production had projected me into space, it was an intense emotional reaction. At the time I looked up at the girl singing the top c and knew that I wanted to be her. Later I sang the role of Mrs. Lovett opposite Bryn Terfel. Mark Rylance: Twelfth Night    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a scene from Twelfth NightRylance’s performance in Tim Carroll’s all-male production of Twelfth Night was nominated for an award in 2003. Rylance has won the best actor Olivier twice, for Much Ado About Nothing (1994) and Jerusalem (2010) A two-time Olivier-award winner, Mark Rylance is one of the UK’s most versatile stage actors. From his invigorating performance in Jerusalem to his uproarious portrayal of Olivia in Twelfth Night, he has a remarkable gift for bringing the most complex characters to life.King Charles III   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a trailer for King Charles III on tourBest new play, 2015Mike Bartlett’s King Charles III was provocative, wickedly entertaining and superbly acted. The play twists from moving to outrageously funny. I enjoyed every minute of it. La Cage Aux Folles   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A Royal Variety Show snippet from La Cage Aux FollesBest musical revival, 2009Le Cage aux Folles was reborn in 2008, the production at the Playhouse theatre was joyous and packed a punch. This revival was full of pizzazz but it was also timely. I’ll never forget seeing my husband performing as the alternate Albin singing “I Am What I Am” . The song remains anthemic plea for tolerance and acceptance.Book of Mormon   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The cast of The Book of Mormon perform at the Olivier awardsRecipient of four awards in 2014, including best new musicalThe Book of Mormon is one of the best nights out in the West End. Subversive and sharply written, it’s a musical that never lets up. It is more of rock concert and it is amazing to see audiences let their hair down in a theatre.Merrily We Roll Along   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a trailer for Merrily We Roll AlongBest musical revival, 2014It was thrilling to be a part of this revival and to see the incredibly gifted cast triumph. The production received seven nominations in 2014.Eileen Atkins      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eileen Atkins in Honour, at the Cottesloe theatre, 2003. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianAtkins won best actress twice (for Honour in 2004 and The Unexpected Man in 1999)Dame Eileen Atkins is in a class of her own. To pick just one performance is an impossible task – she has risen to every role. Her Olivier award-winning performances in Honour, The Unexpected Man and Cymbeline were spellbinding. Judi Dench   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Judi Dench sings Send in the ClownsActress of the year in a revival for Macbeth, 1977; actress of the year in a new play for Pack of Lies, 1983; best actress for Antony and Cleopatra, 1987; best actress for Absolute Helland best actress in a musical for A Little Night Music, 1996Dame Judi Dench has had an unrivalled stage career. From Macbeth to A Little Night Music she has performed the most iconic roles, always with skill and elegance. Her rendition of Send in the Clowns in Sondheim’s A Little Night Music was devastatingly beautiful.Maria Friedman directs and stars in The Oliviers in Concert, alongside the BBC Concert Orchestra and conductor Keith Lockhart, at the Royal Festival Hall, on Monday 25 January. The concert will be broadcast live on BBC Radio 3 and will be available for 30 days via BBC iPlayer Radio.