Euan Ferguson on suffering a strokeOn the morning of Margaret Thatcher's funeral, I awoke a little broken. I didn't awake "to find myself" a little broken – that took two days, and several bouts of vicious denial, to realise. I just couldn't properly use my right arm.I put it down to having slept too heavily on the arm. Yet something was off. I seesaw-grunted out of bed at 8.30am and had a bird bath, soaping mainly the naughty bits, for I was in a hurry that Wednesday: it was the day I filed my Observer TV review. About 1,500 words to do by 2pm, two hours max for rethinks.I dressed, all the while a little conscious of how my hand wasn't still doing quite the things it wanted to do, particularly when it came to the zip and the shirt buttons – infuriating, and I left them half-done. I yawned, shook my head, still obviously just short of the first of the morning jags of coffee. That was when it became interesting.The arm, the hand, simply wouldn't make coffee. I actually giggled, albeit laconically. I went to fill, from the cold tap in the kitchen, the glass percolator, and my cuffs (now I come to think about it, they had been a real bugger) managed to catch two plates from the night before and send them, breaking, to the floor. I was rubber man, seven-leagues-boots boy: my right arm could, for all I knew, have managed to snag every twitch of crockery and jibble of condiment in sight other than the correct ones. I concentrated, with my left hand and some faint nagging worries, on getting java bubbling.I took the seven steps to the computer and powered up. That was pretty much when I realised that something was very wrong with me, though it took two whole days to acknowledge it. Alan Bennett on what the National Theatre means to him  Alan Bennett Photograph: Pål Hansen for the ObserverNobody would call the National Theatre a homely place but it has been my artistic home for 25 years and for that I count myself very lucky. I have met nothing but kindness and co-operation, not least, of course, from Nicholas Hytner but at every level. It has enabled me to go on working much longer than I could have imagined through turning up with a play every three or four years. I am happy not to have acquired any dignity in the process. When I came in for the first rehearsal of People someone at the stage door said: "Oh hello. Still hanging on then?"Rachel Cooke interviews Margaret Hodge  Margaret Hodge Photograph: Shamil Tanna for the Observer"I really don't think about my performance," she tells me in her grand office – two sofas, Pugin wallpaper, river views – at the Palace of Westminster. "It works best if I'm authentic." But then she adds: "We do think about the theatre, of course. We always work out what our first question will be, and what the key questions are after that."Her colleagues have been known to urge her to play things straight, but sometimes instinct gets the better of her all the same. When Matt Brittin, Google's boss in northern Europe, was recalled by the [public accounts] committee after being accused of misleading it over the company's tax affairs, one of Hodge's fellow members told her not to do anything over the top. "So I was completely calm right the way through. Only then, at the end, I was too tempted. I couldn't resist."It was at this point – by way of making reference to Google's "do no evil" company motto – that she famously told Brittin that his company did "do evil". She coughs. "I don't know what the other members felt about that. They're too kind. But that became the headline. A bit unfortunate."The voice is a touch sheepish, but the expression on her face is, it has to be said, gleeful.Hodge, it is clear, loves her job. She tells me with some pride that she is up every morning at six, and doesn't go to bed until midnight (and boy, she looks good on it, all shiny-eyed and perky, like a squirrel). And she is grateful for the distraction the huge workload provides too: her husband, Henry, a high court judge, died of leukaemia in 2009, and she misses him dreadfully. "I'm on my own," she says, in a flat voice. "If my husband were alive it would be a different kettle of fish."Jay Rayner on why he hates picnicsIt's impossible to look elegant while sitting on a sloping hillside or beach, especially at my age. Bits of me are always trying to make a bid for freedom. Sod muffin tops; I'm packing half the cake counter at Greggs. The kids are either punching each other or poking a dead, maggot-infested bird with a stick, and granny's going into advance stages of anaphylactic shock having been stung by the wasp that got bored of divebombing the last mulched-up strawberries that didn't fall out of the picnic bag when it opened accidentally. Gethin Chamberlain on India's child slave workersWhen the trafficker came knocking on the door of Elaina Kujar's hut on a tea plantation at the north-eastern end of Assam, she had just got back from school. Elaina was 14 and wanted to be a nurse. Instead, she was about to lose four years of her life as a child slave.She sits on a low chair inside the hut, playing with her long dark hair as she recalls how her owner would sit next to her watching porn in the living room of his Delhi house, while she waited to sleep on the floor. "Then he raped me," she says, looking down at her hands, then out of the door.Outside, the monsoon rain is falling on the tin roof and against the mud-rendered bamboo strip walls, on which her parents have pinned a church calendar bearing the slogan "The Lord is Good to All". Elaina was in that Delhi house for one reason: her parents, who picked Assam tea on an estate in Lakhimpur district, were paid so little they could not afford to keep her.There are thousands like her, taken to Delhi from the tea plantations in the north-east Indian state by a trafficker, sold to an agent for as little as £45, sold on again to an employer for up to £650, then kept as slaves, raped, abused. It is a 21st-century slave trade. There are thought to be 100,000 girls as young as 12 under lock and key in Delhi alone: others are sold on to the Middle East and some are even thought to have reached the UK.Every tea plantation pays the same wages. Every leaf of every box of Assam tea sold by Tetley and Lipton and Twinings and the supermarket own brands – Asda, Waitrose, Tesco, Sainsbury's and the rest – is picked by workers who earn a basic 12p an hour. Victoria Coren on Justin BieberJustin Bieber's problem is that he is a children's entertainer. That's a different job from "rock star". Justin Bieber is, at all times, wearing an implied fez covered in spangles. He might as well be called Mr Magic.When he goes on stage two hours late (as he did to much parental rage in London last week), it's like being two hours late to shout: "Who's the birthday girl?" and pretend that a felt monkey is too shy to emerge from a suitcase.It's no good being two hours late for a children's party. The window has closed. The kids have all drunk too much orange squash, run around screaming, had a wee on the floor, pushed a sausage into someone's eye, burst into tears and fallen asleep. Miranda Sawyer interviews Lady Gaga  Lady Gaga in London. Photograph: Rex FeaturesWe spoke for 40 minutes and, around halfway, she stopped completely, holding a pose for 30 seconds, saying absolutely nothing at all. The room, still full of people, froze with her. In the end, it was an encounter, not an interview. She controlled it all, and her mood – tired, overly intellectual; full of art, rather than pop – was what dominated. Despite this, I liked her. She was clever and thoughtful. She just wasn't at all like any of the interviews that I'd researched: she didn't gush, she was serious and still. "I might sound total shit," she said. Andrew Rawnsley on social mobilityChildren from disadvantaged backgrounds don't fall behind at school. They start behind. If birth is too often destiny, the best place to start tackling inequalities is the very earliest years of children's lives. It is no guarantee of closing the gap, but it can narrow it. There's an innovative American programme called Learning Dreams. Its insight is that the most effective way to encourage children to thrive in schools is to focus first on the parents. When parents are motivated to love learning as the route to attaining life goals, they are much more likely to pass that on to their children and inspire them to engage with education.Behind it all is a giant question about the economy. We've seen a dramatic polarisation between highly rewarding work for those with the right skills and connections and badly paid work and little chance of social advancement for those without. Whether we can re-energise social mobility depends hugely on how Britain is going to earn its living in the future and what sort of jobs we are going to create. Living standards are not just about the size of energy bills. That is a trivial, passing spat between politicians compared with the question that really matters. Britain and the US come bottom of the league table for social fluidity among developed nations. They are also the countries with the starkest inequalities.The best engine of social mobility is a high-value economy that creates many quality jobs across diverse sectors, spreading prosperity and opportunity more evenly. The alternative is the nightmarish future projected by the Milburn report: one in which even in economic recovery only the top slice of society prospers, the middle and bottom stagnate or fall even more behind and the rungs of the social ladder grow even further apart.David Simon on modern-day capitalismAmerica is a country that is now utterly divided when it comes to its society, its economy, its politics. There are definitely two Americas. I live in one, on one block in Baltimore that is part of the viable America, the America that is connected to its own economy, where there is a plausible future for the people born into it. About 20 blocks away is another America entirely. It's astonishing how little we have to do with each other and yet we are living in such proximity.There's no barbed wire around West Baltimore or around East Baltimore, around Pimlico, the areas in my city that have been utterly divorced from the American experience that I know. But there might as well be. We've somehow managed to march on to two separate futures and I think you're seeing this more and more in the west. I don't think it's unique to America. Lord Howe on Europe and the ToriesLast week has shown that the Conservative party's long, nervous breakdown over Europe continues, and what is essentially a Tory problem is now, once again, becoming a national problem. Serious mistakes have been made, but the situation is not irretrievable.In the complex and interdependent world we inhabit today, to walk away from the European Union into the unknown would be a very dangerous choice indeed. Suzanne Moore on how to be a good motherIf you want a life, make your children portable. Teach them to sit at tables in restaurants, sleep in airports, talk to strangers, pass out in buggies in pub gardens. Do not let them express their feelings at all times. This is manners. Please, thank you and knocking on a door before they go in will open doors for them for the rest of their lives.Put a lock on your bedroom door if you want sex. Ever again. Introduce them to new partners only if something going on is more than sex. Understand that however many times they have seen you naked and "putting blue worms up her bottom" – this news was given to the playgroup by my youngest; she meant tampons, before you call social services – understand you are essentially disgusting. Too late now, but I wish I had kept a little more mystery, so I now let them keep theirs.Education. You think your child is gifted? Amazing how all middle-class children are. If you think education is exams and networking with people exactly like you, please don't drone on to me about it. Education is about connecting ideas and people, in my book. As Tagore said: "Don't limit a child to your own learning, for he was born in another time." Mark Townsend on life in the Central African Republic  Families fleeing conflict arrive at a displaced persons camp in the Central African Republic. Photograph: Matthieu Alexandre/AFP/Getty ImagesIt was dusk when armed Seleka rebels dragged the teenager from the road leading north towards Kobe. They pulled her into the jungle and raped her for several hours. She was abandoned near Route Nationale 10 and, after stumbling into the town of Kaga-Bandoro, was taken to hospital. "There were five of them raping her until they tore her vagina. Her family paid the [hospital] expenses until she got well," said her friend, Lisa Moussa, 17.Moussa was more fortunate. As soon as she saw the rebels, she began running. They tried to kill her, shooting until she stumbled and fell. The gang caught her and frogmarched her to a police station and threatened to rape her until her father paid 6,000 Central African francs (£7.90) for her release.Moussa lives in the Camp Fleur district of Kaga-Bandoro, a town deep in the jungle of the CAR, which was tipped into anarchy when the Seleka rebels overthrew the government and seized power four months ago. The UN has declared the entire 4.6 million population to be victims and the country among its most dangerous destinations. Its refugee agency has called it the "most neglected crisis in the world". Médecins Sans Frontières warns that the country had been effectively "abandoned to its fate". Yvgeny Morozov on democracy in a digital ageI use Google products all the time. People who are building a service which I pay for with my privacy or money I'm quite OK with. But as time goes by they aspire to do many things that go beyond their business and their initial set of commercial concerns. We don't treat them with the level of criticism and scrutiny that they deserve; we assume they are in the business of information, which is a benign business and they are part of the enlightenment project.We tend not to think they have shareholders, commercial agendas and are run by people who might not have a very deep appreciation of the human condition and the world around us. I have a lot of respect for these people as engineers, but they are being asked to take on tasks that go far beyond engineering.Tasks that have to do with human and social engineering rather than technical engineering. Those are the kind of tasks I would prefer were taken on by human beings who are more well-rounded, who know about philosophy and ethics, and know something about things other than efficiency, because it will not end well. We did not elect them to help us solve our problems.Once Google is selected to run the infrastructure on which we are changing the world, Google will be there forever. Democratic accountability will not be prevalent. You cannot file a public information request about Google. We are abandoning all the checks and balances we have built to keep our public officials in check for these cleaner, neater, more efficient technological solutions. Imperfection might be the price for democracy. Catherine Deveney on Cardinal Keith O'BrienThree priests and one former priest in Scotland have reported the most senior Catholic clergyman in Britain, Cardinal Keith O'Brien, to the Vatican. The four, from the diocese of St Andrews and Edinburgh, have complained to nuncio Antonio Mennini, the Vatican's ambassador to Britain, and demanded O'Brien's immediate resignation. A spokesman for the cardinal said the claims were contested.Cardinal Keith O'Brien resigned as head of the Scottish Catholic church the next day. Barbara Ellen on Princess Kate's hairIt's as if a whole female body is so disturbing and overwhelming, it has to be criticised one bit at a time. Muffin tops, fat arses, double chins, no thigh gap, bulging hips, bingo wings, sagging knees, bushy brows, non-designer vaginas and, my personal favourite, overlong toes! These days, The Female Eunuch's cover would not feature a suit of the female torso, rather several chopped-up female body parts, resembling a serial killer's dumping ground. Now there's hair, preferably thinning in some devastating fashion. Does this matter, beyond celebrities? I'd say so. What happens to people in the public eye has a trickle-down effect until you come inevitably to a 14-year-old schoolgirl crying alone in her bedroom, wondering which part of her body to despise next, the result of a culture that encourages her to think of herself not as a whole person, but as a series of flesh-and-blood problem zones. Daniel Taylor on Sir Alex FergusonThe most innocuous remark can have Alex Ferguson empurpled, releasing everything two or three inches from his victim's face, but then the torrent will be done, he will be asking if there are any more questions and it's as if nothing has happened. It can be disconcerting, to say the least.Ferguson marched over to a reporter on one foreign excursion with Manchester United and, after the usual hot blast of invective, told him point-blank to find alternative arrangements to get back to England (he later relented, in fairness). As for the mother of all eruptions, that was probably the time he was asked about the FA charging Wayne Rooney for slapping Tal Ben Haim, then at Bolton Wanderers. Ferguson worked himself into such a state he ended up swinging his arm at the tape recorders on his desk and sent them flying into a wall 10 feet away. One belonging to his press officer smashed open, with batteries and various bits scattering across the floor. "Marvellous," he yelled. "You've got me to lose my temper." John Naughton on the 'free' services of internet giantsWhen the history of our time comes to be written, people will marvel at the way that billions of people were seduced into the kind of one-sided agreements they have struck with outfits such as Yahoo!, Google, Facebook, Microsoft and Apple. In the case of Facebook, the historical analogy that comes immediately to mind is sharecropping – the agricultural system in which a landowner allowed tenants to use his land in return for a share of the crops produced on it and which was once a staple of the southern states of the US. Its virtual equivalent is the Facebook system: a billion people till Master Zuckerberg's land, creating all the content that is then harvested by him and his advertiser buddies. The only difference is that on Facebook the sharecroppers don't get any share of the proceeds. They're just croppers.And here's the really weird bit: the croppers are absurdly pleased with their lot. They get to post photographs of themselves drunk, sober, recumbent and upside-down. They get to "like" their friends' jokes and status updates and to organise parties and social events without having to use obsolete media such as email. And in the process they "pay" for this entertainment with their privacy and their personal data, apparently without batting an eyelid. Like I said: weird. Abigail Haworth on Japan's new 'grass-eating men'  Young Japanese people in a Tokyo nightclub. Photograph: Eric RechsteinerSatoru Kishino, 31, belongs to a large tribe of men under 40 who are engaging in a kind of passive rebellion against traditional Japanese masculinity. Amid the recession and unsteady wages, men like Kishino feel that the pressure on them to be breadwinning economic warriors for a wife and family is unrealistic. They are rejecting the pursuit of both career and romantic success."It's too troublesome," says Kishino, when I ask why he's not interested in having a girlfriend. "I don't earn a huge salary to go on dates and I don't want the responsibility of a woman hoping it might lead to marriage."Japan's media, which has a name for every social kink, refers to men like Kishino as "herbivores" or soshoku danshi (literally, "grass-eating men"). Kishino says he doesn't mind the label because it's become so commonplace. He defines it as "a heterosexual man for whom relationships and sex are unimportant".This was 2013's most read Observer article on theguardian.com. Robin McKie on Golden RiceScientists say they have seen the future of genetically modified foods and have concluded that it is orange or, more precisely, golden. Next year, golden rice – normal rice that has been genetically modified to provide vitamin A to counter blindness and other diseases in children in the developing world – could be given to farmers in the Philippines for planting in paddy fields.Thirty years after scientists first revealed they had created the world's first GM crop, hopes that their potential to ease global malnutrition problems may be realised at last. Bangladesh and Indonesia have indicated they are ready to accept golden rice, and other nations, including India, have also said that they are considering planting it."Vitamin A deficiency is deadly," said Adrian Dubock, a member of the Golden Rice project. "It affects children's immune systems and kills around two million every year in developing countries. It is also a major cause of blindness in the third world. Boosting levels of vitamin A in rice provides a simple, straightforward way to put that right." Nigel Slater's diary of a working weekAbove anything in my working week, the trip to market, and to the Fern Verrow stall in Bermondsey in particular, is the bit I love. Despite our well-laid plans, shopping is really where it all starts. It has done so since that first week, 20 years ago, when, if I remember rightly, the recipes [for Slater's first Observer column] were roasted peppers and a damson compote.There are ingredients I must have, and others I'm hoping will be there. But there is also many an inspirational buy. The gold and ruby plums, the tiny fuzzy-skinned peaches, the extraordinary spotted trevise; all these will have a home either on the table or for the column. Often for both.It is here, among the new potatoes, flowering chives and courgettes and scarlet, tangerine and black-skinned tomatoes that everything can turn on a sixpence. Just as it can at the fishmonger or the butcher, the cheese shop or the greengrocer.Shopping lists are, to me, just wish lists: they are rarely adhered to, and I will often add a recipe simply because I have been tempted by a particular ingredient. I reserve the right to change my ideas on a whim. We deal with it. Robert McCrum interviews Andrew Marr"In hospital I remember thinking," Andrew Marr says, "that I have gobbled life too much. I have gone racing from one thing to the next and never enjoyed the moment. From now on," he concludes, with slightly grim relish, "I'm going to suck the juice out of life." Eva Wiseman meets Lily AllenA year ago, if you'd been walking down Harley Street late one morning, you would have seen Lily Allen leaving a plastic surgeon's office covered in the fine black lines of a steady-handed pen. It was two years after the Daily Mail ran a graph charting "the ups and downs of her ever-changing figure", one year since she'd publicly discussed her bulimia and the recent loss of her child, and months since she'd given birth to her first daughter. She was feeling fat.She had gone for a consultation about laser liposuction and, after advice from the surgeon, booked in for more – as well as her thighs, her arse, he recommended she reshape her ankles, her belly, her knees and her back. Except, four days before her operation, she found out she was pregnant again. And so – she's Lily Allen – she wrote a song.On a bright cold day on an industrial estate outside Wimbledon, near a dusty Chinese takeaway called the Charisma Café, a café that appears to have been built out of chips and irony, Lily Allen is standing on a sound stage, being a pop star again. Her new song booms through air fragrant with the fresh-paint smell of things going right. This is not just a pop song. This is a feminist text with a really catchy drum beat. This is not just a pop song. This is an open letter to the Mail Online, and this is a cackling wink at modern misogyny, at women's roles in 2013, at bloody Robin Thicke's Blurred Lines, even. While his video, for one of the biggest hits of the year, featured balloons that coyly spelled out "Robin Thicke has a big dick," her balloons say "Lily Allen has a baggy pussy."Could this be the first chart hit containing the word "objectifies"? It's good to have her back. Alex Renton on the basking shark's return to Britain  A basking shark feeding on plankton off the Cornwall coast. Photograph: Alex Mustard/naturepl.comThe basking sharks (or the cearban, the muldoan, hoe-mother, the brigdie… every Atlantic coast has its name for them) were back. They were late this year because the sea was colder than usual. They usually appear from May in the south-west, June in the Isle of Man and July in the Hebrides. But when they did turn up it was in great numbers. By August the sharks were swarming up the Scottish coast. Fishing boats and rigid inflatables reported near misses. On the Oban-to- Barra run, the Caledonian MacBrayne ferry had to keep a special lookout so the ship could avoid schools of giants cruising the seas at a sedate 3mph. The Shark Trust, which logs sightings, announced record-breaking numbers for Scotland.Basking sharks are Britain's elephants, our biggest animals. They are also our most mysterious. They arrive in herds and then all but disappear for decades.  Tim Adams interviews Julie BaileyRight from the start of the campaign in 2008, [whistleblower] Julie Bailey was getting anonymous hate mail. Mid-Staffordshire hospital is Stafford's biggest employer, and her exposure of its culture of neglect and harm was profoundly unpopular in some quarters. After the emergency department was closed at night pending review, she says, the abuse got worse. "I was getting cards saying, 'I hope you die in an ambulance on the way to hospital now you have closed this one' … I had my car tyres slashed, 'Bitch' written on my windows, and 'Shut your effing mouth'."Bailey, a mother of two who lives alone, was understandably worried for her safety. She finally decided to move out when her mother's grave was vandalised. "I would go up each Sunday to put fresh flowers out, and when I went up on a Tuesday to water them the flowers would be out and the vase smashed and the pieces stamped into the earth so I would have to dig them out," she says. She thought it might just be kids, but then she got another thank-you card, this one saying: "Isn't it about time you started looking after your mum's grave? Ha ha ha…" She says: "I don't really know how you deal with that."Carole Cadwalladr as a shift worker  Carole Cadwalladr outside the large Amazon distribution wharehouse Photograph: Stephen Shepherd for the ObserverRight now, in Swansea, four shifts will be working at least a 50-hour week, hand-picking and packing each item, or, as the Daily Mail put it in an article a few weeks ago, being "Amazon's elves" in the "21st-century Santa's grotto".If Santa had a track record in paying his temporary elves the minimum wage while pushing them to the limits of the EU working time directive, and sacking them if they take three sick breaks in any three-month period, this would be an apt comparison. It is probably reasonable to assume that tax avoidance is not "constitutionally" a part of the Santa business model, as Brad Stone, the author of a new book on Amazon, The Everything Store: Jeff Bezos and the Age of Amazon, tells me it is in Amazon's case. Neither does Santa attempt to bully his competitors, as Mark Constantine, the founder of Lush cosmetics, who last week took Amazon to the high court, accuses it of doing. Santa was not called before the Commons public accounts committee and called "immoral" by MPs. Ed Vulliamy interviews author Anabel HernándezNarcoland: The Mexican Drug Lords and their Godfathers is a book about, to use one of its author Anabel Hernández's best words, the "mafiocracy", rather than the mafia – about the mafia state. It is about how the old Guadalajara cartel of the 1980s was protected by the Mexican government just as its heir, Guzmán's Sinaloa syndicate, is now. It is about the rise of Genaro García Luna, whom Hernández accuses of being El Chapo's protector at the apex of government. "At first, I thought it would be difficult," she says. "I didn't think people would be ready to believe that the government is lying. That this war is all one big lie." Elizabeth Day on Moritz ErhardtMoritz was nearing the end of his seven-week placement. He had shown himself to be so capable that the bank he was working for was preparing to offer him a full-time job as a £45,000-a-year analyst after graduation.Keen to impress to the last, he worked three nights in a row. Over a 72-hour period, he got a taxi back from the office to his flat in Bethnal Green, east London, at around 5am each day. He would then shower briefly before returning to his desk.This exhausting ritual is known in banking circles as the "magic roundabout" – so called because the taxi driver will sometimes wait outside while an intern washes, puts on a fresh shirt and re-emerges blinking in the dawn light. On Thursday 15 August, Moritz was caught on CCTV entering the Claredale House block of student flats, rented to hundreds of City interns during the summer.He never came out.