One Child9pm, BBC2The conclusion of Guy Hibbert’s sprawling thriller. The plot thus far has followed Mei (Katie Leung), a young Chinese woman abandoned under the one-child policy and raised in Britain. Mei is contacted by her birth mother when the brother she never knew she had is on the hook for a murder he didn’t commit. What has ensued has been an intriguing, gruelling weaving of themes such as dislocation, corruption and loyalty. Tonight, the judge accuses Ajun of corrupting witnesses as Mei makes contact with the real killer. Andrew MuellerGrantchester9pm, ITVThe crime drama starring James Norton as sleuthing clergyman Sidney Chambers returns for a second series. In truth, the opener, which begins with Chambers being accused of sexual assault against a teenager, soon loses momentum and meanders to a conclusion. It’s a particular shame because the script deals with some still-pertinent issues. On the plus side, the performances, including a turn from Neil Morrissey as an anguished father, are strong, and the evocation of 1950s England and its hypocrisies is convincing. Jonathan WrightThe Prosecutors: Real Crime and Punishment9pm, BBC4Tonight, the Crown Prosecution Service deals with a murdered woman; a son who’s committed matricide, then attempted suicide; and a domestic abuse victim whose attacker remains to be charged more than a year on. If many scenarios appear open-and-shut, a strong case must nevertheless be built – which isn’t easy, particularly with one murderer claiming his victim deliberately fractured her own skull. As they say at the CPS: “The more you discuss it, the more complicated it gets.” Ali CatterallHow To Get Away with Murder9pm, UniversalShonda Rhimes’s legal thriller isn’t the kind of series you can comfortably dip in and out of. In fact, even if you’ve been keeping up with the Keating Five’s homicide-themed exploits thus far, you’ll probably still have to concentrate pretty hard to work out what’s real and what’s not as season two returns. Having been shot by former protege Wes, Annalise begins to hallucinate that a baby has been left in her care. But how are the lawyer’s visions connected to her current predicament? Absorbing, if unashamedly twisty. Hannah J DaviesInsane Pools: Off The Deep End9pm, Animal PlanetWhile “Insane Pools” might conjure up images of Littlewoods football pools rebranded for Slipknot fans, it actually follows landscaper extraordinaire Lucas Congdon as he transforms Stateside swimming pools in a manner not dissimilar to Changing Rooms. This second season of pool pimping promises more lavish builds than ever before, but if there’s anyone unlikely to generate sympathy in this era of austerity, it’s people whose pools aren’t quite as glamorous as they’d like. Hark! The world’s smallest violin. Mark Gibbings-JonesRaised By Wolves10pm, Channel 4Caz and Caitlin Moran’s excellent and highly quotable comedy returns to the Garry household for a second series, and 16-year-old Germaine (Helen Monks) is still banging on about her bodily functions to all and sundry. After mum Della (Rebekah Staton) switches off the wi-fi (“I’m not paying £29.99 a month to beam pixels through the friggin’ air”), the Garry children slope off to the library, where Germaine’s flirting practice leads to the unimaginable: an actual date. She preps for it by dousing her wrists in her own vaginal fluid. Rachel AroestiSecrets of the Sauna10.35pm, Channel 4What goes on in that building that looks like a disused nightclub, beneath the rainbow flag, behind the blacked-out windows? This doc has rare access to the inner workings of a gay sauna in Nottingham. It meets the clientele – teachers, plumbers, Tory councillors – and the staff who look after and, indeed, clean up after them. As well as letting inexperienced viewers see the sauna’s facilities, rules and rituals, the programme also gets to know the proprietors, Joe and John, who have been a couple for three decades. Jack SealeFilm choiceBridget Jones: The Edge Of Reason (Beeban Kidron, 2004) 7.05pm, Sky Movies Drama & RomanceHaving landed the Darcy (Colin Firth) of her dreams, the course of true love isn’t running too smoothly for Bridget. He’s still a bit of a prig, and that charming Daniel (Hugh Grant) is still oozing about... The Thailand shenanigans (she’s busted for drugs) are silly, but that down-to-earth Renée Zellweger charm sees this patchy sequel through. Paul HowlettDracula (Francis Ford Coppola, 1992) 11.05pm, Film4Made in the days when vampires were relatively rare sightings in the movies, Coppola reads the great gothic tale as a grand amour, Gary Oldman’s bereft Dracula existing in torment for centuries until, in London, he discovers the reincarnation of his love in Winona Ryder’s Elisabeta. Visually ravishing and full of succulent eroticism, it is powered by the intensity of Oldman’s beast. PHToday’s best live sportCross-Country Skiing The World Cup meeting in Montreal, Canada. 4.45pm, Eurosport 2Premier League Football: Liverpool v Manchester City Can City rescue their faltering title challenge? 7.15pm, BT Sport 1Cycling: Track World Championship Coverage of day one from Lee Valley VeloPark in London. 7.30pm, Eurosport 1Coppa Italia: Inter Milan v Juventus The semi-final second leg from the San Siro. 7.30pm, Sky Sports 1