Fireman Sam is the bane of her life and an east London grandmother is her hero. Dany Cotton has her own set of blue flashing lights for her car and a helmet with a gold-painted visor that would put Darth Vader to shame.Cotton is not, in her words, “a six foot two hairy-arsed man” but is the very proud new boss of London Fire Brigade, the first female commissioner of the service that she joined as a teenager.International Women's Day: tell us about a battle you've won | Sarah Marsh In her first newspaper interview since taking up the role earlier this year and before a conference next week at which she will talk about what it is like to be a woman in the service, Cotton is candid about being one of the few women in a male-dominated workforce.“One single thing that would help bring more women into the service? Stop saying ‘fireman’. How many people still use that?” she says. “It would make a real difference if people stopped. Why did they have to go for Fireman Sam? What’s wrong with Firefighter Sam? We have to change that perception of a six foot hairy-arsed bloke who can kick a door down.“Women make fantastic firefighters,” she says. “If all you want to do is leap on the big red shiny engine and be a hero then the fire service is probably not for you anyway.”At 47, Cotton now has 102 fire stations, 4,800 uniformed firefighters and 800 other staff under her command and is responsible for frontline response to emergencies in a city where 100,000 incidents had to be attended last year, from fires to flooding to major road and tram accidents, and where the terrorism threat is ranked as “severe”.“You can’t help but worry about terrorism but if you let that overwhelm you then you’d never come to work. If you didn’t let some things scare you a little, you’d become a bit blasé,” she says. “You join the service to save lives and you can’t do that from home.”This weekend Cotton is recruiting a new assistant commissioner, putting candidates through their paces at a training centre in Beckton, east of Stratford in east London.It is ability rather than qualifications that impresses her. “I hated education with a passion. My parents wanted me to go to university but that wasn’t for me. Then I saw an advert in the Croydon Advertiser and I cut it out – it said the fire service was especially welcoming recruits who were women or from black and ethnic minority backgrounds.”Her parents were horrified, thinking she would be bullied and broken in a macho environment. “I was 18 and had no concept that a woman couldn’t or shouldn’t do anything. I came from a family with strong matriarchs, an East End grandmother was one, and I simply had the view ‘Why can’t I?’”When Cotton left training college in 1988 she was the only one of the three women in her year to make it through the course and the 30th woman to have joined a 6,000-strong service. Within months she was at the Clapham rail disaster, where 35 people died.  Dany Cotton, top right, when she joined the London Fire Brigade in 1988. Photograph: London Fire Brigade“The first day I just thought ‘crikey’ – it was very, very macho. I had to prove myself twice over, four times over. Some of the blokes were quite hostile but it was a mix, some of them were fine,” she says. “The management was clearly under pressure to change the force but the people under them were definitely not prepared for change. The issue for some is that if a woman can do the job, then it isn’t the big hero job it was. It de-machos their role.”Many of those attitudes remain and Cotton believes fire brigades lag behind the police service in tackling sexism and opportunities for women. “It is definitely part of my role to change that. A lot of it is about understanding the role of a firefighter. Perhaps 70% of our work now is fire prevention, social engagement, communicating with different types of people in the community. Our stations are safe haven``s 24/7, if you’re a woman walking home alone, or a teenager running from a gang, then knock on your fire station door.“We are identifying people most at risk, getting smoke alarms in. The biggest tragedy in this day and age is that people are still dying because they haven’t got a smoke alarm. We will come round and fit you one, for free.”While house fires are in decline in the UK, as a result of better regulations over combustible furniture and less cigarette smoking, poverty and mental health remain major risk factors for deadly fires. “People with no money tend to huddle close to a fire or light a candle, or fry food because it’s cheap.“Hoarding is really on the rise and a big issue – not only are people hoarding combustible material but also they won’t be able to get out of a room easily, or a firefighter won’t be able to get in. It’s a very dangerous situation.”Firefighting is about ingenuity, not just strength. Women like me are an asset Despite her new rank, she still misses the red shiny engine. “I do miss being in the cab, although I never trained as a driver because I just didn’t want the hassle. A woman fire engine driver? Just non-stop criticism and comments and cracks about my reversing. It would be unbearable. No, it wasn’t worth it.”She continues: “I do still get abuse now. Mostly it’s comments from retired firefighters who think a woman can’t do the job, or that I only got the job because I’m a woman. It doesn’t occur to them that I might be the best person to do the job.”And for Cotton, doing her job does not mean being stuck behind a desk: “I still go out to fires – the last one was four weeks ago in Wembley. Although these days I don’t go in the cab but I can go in my own car kitted out with blue lights. At least there is no one to criticise my driving.”UP THE LADDER■ Dany Cotton, 47, was born in London.■ She joined the fire service as a teenager in 1988 and within months was on duty at the time of the Clapham rail disaster, where 35 people died.■ In 2010 she became deputy assistant commissioner of the London Fire Brigade, before being appointed assistant commissioner in 2012.■ In January this year, she became the first woman to lead the brigade when she was made commissioner. 