Last month, the Mexican tenor Javier Camarena caused a stir at New York’s Metropolitan opera house when he encored the second section of Ernesto’s aria Cercherò lontana terra during a performance of Donizetti’s Don Pasquale. Encores during a complete performance of an opera, as opposed to a recital, remain rare in most houses. But such was the excitement generated by Camarena’s singing, and in particular the electrifying top D flat with which he ended the aria, that he was allowed, during a Saturday matinée broadcast, to repeat it. It is not the first time it has happened: twice in 2014, he encored Ramiro’s showstopper from Rossini’s La Cenerentola. But he’s only the third tenor to be permitted to repeat arias at the Met since 1942, the other two being Luciano Pavarotti and Juan Diego Flórez.The UK has yet fully to get the measure of him, though you can hear him at this year’s Proms in Opera Rara’s performance of Rossini’s Semiramide, and next season at Covent Garden, when he makes his Royal Opera debut as Almaviva in The Barber of Seville. Last night, however, he appeared at the Wigmore Hall in one of the Rosenblatt recitals, the series that showcases singers, familiar or otherwise, in a repertory of their own choosing. It was quite an occasion, and one that proved Camarena’s growing reputation to be entirely justified.Unusually and strikingly, he chose to perform his big operatic showpieces in the first half. In the smallish space of the Wigmore Hall, his voice sounds big, the tone bronzed and clean: on this occasion, he was accompanied by pianist Ángel Rodríguez, though this is a voice you can imagine soaring over an orchestra with great ease. His technique is wonderfully secure. And those high notes ring out magnificently, and some seem to go on forever. An aria from Rossini’s Le Comte Ory was dispatched with beguiling elegance. When he turned to tragic Edgardo in Donizetti’s Lucia di Lammermoor, the tone darkened and he displayed an admirably restrained intensity. He closed the first half with Ah! Mes Amis from La Fille du Régiment, its notorious sequence of nine top Cs perfectly placed and effortlessly produced.Though thrilling high notes are integral to any tenor’s arsenal, they are not everything, and I found myself just as impressed with his soft singing. The first half contained Nadir’s aria Je crois entendre encore from Bizet’s The Pearl Fishers. It lies precariously high, but also needs to be sung quietly if it is to work, and the way Camarena allowed the line to hover was beautiful in the extreme.In some respects, the intimacy of Bizet’s aria prefaced the concert’s second half. The mood turned more subdued and personal. Songs – Italian, Spanish and Mexican – replaced arias. Camarena leaned against the piano, relaxed and beaming. Though the high notes continued to ring, his singing was deliberately less spectacular. A finely judged display of tone and line informed a sequence of Tosti’s settings of Gabriele D’Annunzio’s flowery poetry. Lara’s Veracruz was offered as a tribute to the Mexican state where he was born in 1976. At one point, he asked the audience to sing along, if they knew the song, which his compatriots, of whom there were many in the audience, did with gusto. Audiences love him, no question. So do we have a new star in our midst? Time alone, perhaps, will tell. “I have to really consider what is happening with the voice and which direction I’m taking,” Camarena recently told a US interviewer. But we are, I think, witnessing the emergence of a potentially remarkable tenor.Five more singers to hearErmonela Jaho – A singer of exceptional dramatic intensity, the Albanian soprano’s recent performances in Leoncavallo’s Zazà at the Barbican and Il Trittico at Covent Garden have already marked her out as a major interpreter of the verismo repertory.Ann Hallenberg – The Swedish mezzo-soprano has an exceptional technique that enables her to cover a wide repertory, though she’s particularly fine in Handel and Vivaldi.Charles Castronovo – An impeccable stylist, the American tenor can currently be heard as Edgardo in the Royal Opera’s controversial new production of Lucia di Lammermoor. He’s wonderful in Mozart.Xavier Sabata – One of today’s many fine countertenors, he’s a superbly accomplished artist whose range and repertory embraces both Baroque and contemporary work.Olga Peretyatko – Another singer who has yet to make her mark fully in the UK, the Russian coloratura soprano has a dazzling bel canto technique.