Fast and Furious 8    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  The Fate of the Furious trailer: The Rock, Vin Diesel and Charlize Theron star in new filmFast & Furious 8 trailer review: a reassuring, obscene platter of murder It’s not the telenova official title (The Fate of the Furious) that’s got us salivating. Nor the return of vested slapheads Vin Diesel and Dwayne Johnson. No: what makes this really exciting is the new additions to the metalhead crew. No 1: Charlize Theron, with dreadful hair. No 2: Helen Mirren, in an as yet unspecified role, but one that definitely will involve some driving (her condition for appearing). Diesel has a track record with grandes dames of the British screen (he and Judi Dench had red-hot chemistry in The Chronicles of Riddick) so we’re hoping for some proper fireworks come April. Goon 2   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Goon was a sweet, immensely violent hockey comedy starring American Pie’s Seann William Scott, Liev Schreiber in a rare funny turn, and its writer Jay Baruchel (best known as the skinny, hot one from Seth Rogen’s troupe). In its year of release, it topped the Canadian box office; it’s still the highest-grossing Canadian film in the UK ever. That a follow-up has been six years in the offing is sad, yes, but it makes us suspect this one could really be something special. Guardians of the Galaxy 2   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Pre-orders on Baby Groot dolls are already through the roof, and Marvel’s big comedy hit still has six months until release. But few relatively original properties garnered quite so much instant affection as ragtag superhero ensemble movie Guardians of the Galaxy in 2014. An antidote to po-faced space opera and over-mythologised teams of Earth-saving Lycra squads, that action comedy took $773m worldwide. Marvel will be hoping to hit the billion-dollar mark with Vol 2. Justice League   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Warner Bros’s most recent DC outing did not go smoothly. Reception of Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice was borderline catastrophic; but one sequence people did seem to like was the brief intros for other characters – such as Aquaman, the Flash and Cyborg – who’d doubtless get a little more airtime further down the line. And, come November, they will: Zack Snyder’s whopper of a flick sees those fellas teaming up with Ben Affleck’s Batman, plus freshly resurrected Superman, to “face the catastrophic threat of Steppenwolf and his army of Parademons”. Many people really, really, really need this one to succeed, so perhaps the stops will be well and truly pulled out. Kingsman: The Golden CircleForget the aforementioned Superman. Forget Peter Cushing. Surely the most surprising resurrection to be witnessed in the cinema over these 12 months is Colin Firth’s character in the Kingsman sequel. Many of us saw him comprehensively killed after laying dapper waste to a congregation in an American church. Yet returned he is for Matthew Vaughn’s sequel, and not just in flashback. All the old faithful are also present and correct; joining the throng this time are Channing Tatum, Julianne Moore, Jeff Bridges, Halle Berry, Vinnie Jones and Elton John.The Lego Batman MovieThe Lego Movie, Phil Lord and Christopher Miller’s 2014 block comedy, was one of the most unexpectedly refreshing and subversive films that year. So parents, children and non-parents alike will be rejoicing at the prospect of this follow-up, which sees the return of Will Arnett as the Caped Crusader, alongside what looks like a dream team of voice talent: Michael Cera as Robin, Ralph Fiennes as Alfred Pennyworth, Rosario Dawson as Batgirl and Jenny Slate as Harley Quinn. Logan It’s rare that a sequel declares itself to be the final instalment – and really means it. Just one reason to already love Hugh Jackman’s final hairy outing as Wolverine. Fancy another one? Jackman took a paycut to ensure the film could preserve its ooh-er R-rating. And one more? Few superhero movies have a plot summary quite as glum as: “A past-his-prime Logan undertakes a final adventure in the post-apocalyptic future.” Whoop! Sign me up! Thor 3: Ragnarok   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The teaser trailer for the latest Avengers spin-off has racked up nearly 18m views. One suggestion appetite is keen for another movie foregrounding the mallet-flinging sweetie played by Chris Hemsworth. Marketing has gone large on the Aussie hi-jinks of the homegrown star, as well as visiting cast members Tom Hiddleston and Idris Elba. The recruiting of Hunt for the Wilderpeople director Taika Waititi further whets anticipation this one will be big on the giggles, rather than the gung-ho stuff. World War Z 2 David Fincher takes the reins on this follow-up to the Brad Pitt zombie flick from 2013. Worryingly little is known about it, but given public hunger for the undead shows no sign of abating as The Walking Dead draws to a close, prognosis for this one remains healthy. 