Prior to Monday, the only jazz performers to win a Pulitzer prize for music (while still alive) were Wynton Marsalis and Ornette Coleman. A few other greats, such as Thelonious Monk, had been honored posthumously – but denied the increased standing and support that might have been valuable when they were still creating art. Now we can add a third name to this list: that of composer and multi-instrumentalist Henry Threadgill – a veteran of the Chicago collective the Association for the Advancement of Creative Musicians (or AACM), who is now based in New York.By giving their 2016 prize to Threadgill’s recent album for his band Zooid, titled In for a Penny, In for a Pound, the Pulitzer judges are recognizing not only one of last year’s standout recordings – the Guardian’s John Fordham praised its “surging energy” – but also the long career of a noted composer, saxophonist and flutist. This news follows trumpeter Wadada Leo Smith’s Pulitzer-finalist status in 2013 (for Ten Freedom Summers). Clearly, the Pulitzer prize has taken the steady critique of its past disinterest in musicians associated with jazz to heart – a criticism levied even by the 2003 award winner, John Adams. <a href="http://henrythreadgill.bandcamp.com/album/in-for-a-penny-in-for-a-pound">In for a Penny, In for a Pound by Henry Threadgill</a>But there is another aspect of Threadgill’s victory that is interesting in this context: specifically, the fact he has often resisted being classified exclusively as a jazz artist. When I first interviewed Threadgill in 2012, he told me he considered the word “jazz” as being not particularly helpful when it comes to his music. (And he also spoke of his admiration for Beyoncé, as well as the composer Elliott Carter.) Much of Threadgill’s music swings intensely and references the blues – including portions of his Pulitzer-winning set. Other of his recent compositions – such as several chamber pieces I have heard at Brooklyn’s Roulette, in recent seasons – do not.In citing the unique polyphonic language played by one of Threadgill’s late-period groups, Zooid, the Pulitzer committee seems intent on pointing out his compositional innovation – specifically, “a set of three note intervals assigned to each player that serves as the starting point for improvisation” – that creates the band’s unique sound. During a brief conversation over the phone, in the hours after his win was announced, I asked for his reactions to this award, and what it means for his preferred terminology, “creative music”. And since he’s already out with another record, for a new group (the two-piano Ensemble Double-Up), I asked what we can expect from him next. On the surprise – and his definition of classical musicI think that I’m fortunate … To my surprise, the Pulitzer people looked at my work! It’s always an honor when institutions and colleagues recognize your work. I mean, we keep on working regardless – but I think it’s important for an American institution like that to recognize people that are not just doing “classical music”. All music is classical music, you know. I don’t put up boundaries on music.On what it means for artists from his background to winWhen I was put into the Aaron Copland house, I was the first black composer – and jazz composer … I did a residency there, and they put a plaque on the wall: and it’s all classical composers that had had that honor, right? … And I think this is another example of when institutions and foundations and societies open up and look more broadly at [creative music] – rather than mainlining stuff on just one idea.A lot of times, the problem is people think that when you think a little bit broader, it says something negative about what you’ve already been supporting. It doesn’t. It just shows that the institution has got their eyes open … You could still support that, but the rest of humanity has a contribution to make! (Laughs.)On the influences that go into his current music:It’s informed by everything that I’ve learned in life. Of course I started out in an ethnic community, with the blues and church music and jazz. But that was just one place to start. You read fiction then you start reading nonfiction! You start reading biographies and scientific accounts. It doesn’t change where you came from. It just broadens it. That’s what we do, we keep building on the foundation where we come from. You don’t lose it, you just keep building on it.On the complexity of its structureIt is complex – but it doesn’t come across as complex. You might not even think that it’s as complex as it is. It seems to just come in like the fog in a way. It kind of goes around people – and it doesn’t disturb ’em the way, you know, a lot of music used to do. You know: “new avant garde, contemporary music is grating”. I think we’re past that now anyway … I think that’s been done. I think we’ve gotten used to the dissonant, so it’s not even dissonant any more. (Laughs.)It’s hard to describe what I’m doing in terms of the effect … I think the musicians and composers they pick up on the complexity of it because of their training and their discipline. But the average listener, I don’t think it registers with them that much.On what he’s up to nextI’m coming out with my idea of a large ensemble, which is like an orchestra or a big band or something like that. It’s called Fourteen or Fifteen-chestra Aggregation. And it consists of all of the groups I have together: Double-Up, Zooid with brass, and Zooid. So that’s what I’m working on, and I plan on touring that to four cities hopefully along with the new Double-Up piece for three pianos.On what his Pulitzer could mean for the school of ‘creative music’ pioneered by the AACMWell, you know – we have no control over anything but what we do. I just try to stay hopeful: I don’t want to get too pessimistic about anything. Hopefully like some type of enlightenment will come about. Which is better for everyone, for all of humanity. Any time we can understand a little bit more about culture, I think it makes us better as a group of people, and more civilized as a group of people.