We can’t pretend to be surprised at the rise of the Tangerine Mussolini. Over the last few years, the world has had a torrid love affair with fascism. In 2015, when more than a million humans fled poverty and war for Europe, Europeans fled to the far right. Elsewhere, Modi, Erdoğan and Putin puffed out their chests and appealed to primordial yearnings for Daddy. The provincial US media might paint Donald Trump as a new type of candidate, birthed by reality TV and social media, but one look at the global zeitgeist would fix their illusions. Tangerine Mussolini builds nothing himself. Not campaigns and not skyscrapers. He merely lends his face.“#DonaldTrump is America’s selfie,” tweeted the writer Tariq Touré on 10 March, the night Trump declared “Islam hates us” to CNN’s Anderson Cooper. Trump’s formula is old and simple: economic help for members of the in-group; violence (metaphorical or actual) for those outside. A mix of socialism and nationalism, if you will. For Trump’s supporters the impossibility of his claims doesn’t reveal ignorance – it shows he has Dominated Reality More than anything, Trump voters feel aggrieved. Some of the grievances are legitimate. Globalisation, backed by both democratic and republican elites, has decimated vast swaths of the US midwest – replacing family supporting factory jobs with precarious, humiliating work at Walmart. However, these legitimate fears coexist with talk-radio hallucinations. One Trump voter I met in Cleveland – a courteous, wholesome truck driver – told me that Democrats were mass importing undocumented Mexican immigrants to illegally vote. Another, a blonde woman selling Trump shirts, told me her husband feared for her safety at the Republican national convention, and demanded she carry a pistol and wear body armour. The fear isn’t helped by our global summer of violence. Mass shootings and suicide bombings flare up in Baghdad and Belgium, in Orlando and Istanbul, in Baton Rouge and Munich and Kabul. Some are Islamic State. Others are the work of broken, poisoned men. Each amplifies the next, spreading like a virus through the tendrils of world media. Each has one message: be afraid. When people are afraid, they cling to authority, and Trump is only too happy to provide. We will be great again, Tangerine Mussolini promises, once the scary brown outsiders are deported, and the minorities – uppity women and liberal fifth columnists – are beaten down. Trump takes Washington’s coded racism and writes it in neon. To his followers, this looks like strength.Tangerine Mussolini promises many things. He will bring back the factories. He will build a wall. He will force China to submit and take Isis’s oil after bombing the oil fields they occupy. All Trump-loving Americans will get free tickets to Ice Cream Mountain. He doesn’t give specifics on how he’ll accomplish these plans, but who cares? For Trump’s supporters, the impossibility of his claims doesn’t reveal a shameful ignorance of economics, geography or physics. It shows he has Dominated Reality.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Artist and writer Molly CrabappleTrump supporters confuse politics with BDSM and, despite his pouty little mouth and chubby little fingers, Trump is like their personal Christian Grey. His supporters use the aggressively sexual language of the sexually deprived. In New Hampshire, an anonymous 52-year-old woman screamed that Ted Cruz was a “pussy” and rhapsodised that Trump had “balls the size of watermelons”. On Reddit and Twitter, Trump supporters anoint insufficiently Trumpish Republicans “Cuckservative”. The word originated on the white supremacist internet: cuck, short for cuckold, is a genre of porn where the white husband watches his white wife have sex with black men.When Infowars blogged about my Twitter joke about Trump and assassination, my social media filled with misspelled fantasies about my eventual gang rape and murder at the hands of Isis Black Lives Matter protester Mexicans. I guess everyone needs a fetish.Trump accepted the Republican presidential nomination with one of the longest speeches in US history. Sure, it was a morass of racism, but it was also Trump’s wedding vow to the unseen, implicitly white Americans – the unemployed, the suffering, the forgotten. “I am your horse!” he bellowed, and he condemned every corporate shill, every establishment elite, every sellout of either party whose cool contemptuous gaze had ever looked down upon the heartland. He made his play for the Bernie Sanders supporters who felt disenfranchised by the Democratic national convention. He chanted “USA number one.” The delegates rose in 22 minutes of applause.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  ‘I am your voice’: Donald Trump accepts nomination – videoThe Republican establishment wept hot tears throughout Trump’s rise. Ohio governor John Kasich refused to speak at the convention, and Ted Cruz declined to endorse Trump, saying only that Republicans should “vote your conscience”. On the night Trump won the Indiana primary, Senator Lindsey Graham tweeted: “If we nominate Trump, we will get destroyed … and we will deserve it,” while, minutes after his acceptance speech, Meghan McCain wrote: “The party I was part of is dead.” There’s an uncomfortable joy in observing these Republican misfortunes, like watching the spoiled son of a weapons dealer get his face eaten by his pet chimp.The Istanbul bombing was an attack on the city’s cosmopolitan glory | Molly Crabapple Trump may not be able to cure the system’s rottenness, but he sure as hell can point to it. On Sunday, WikiLeaks dumped a vast quantity of hacked DNC emails, which showed that the supposedly neutral organisation was in the bag for Hillary all along. While WikiLeaks probably got the goods from Russian hackers, the emails cemented the image of corrupt Hillary, a woman so lacking in principle that her surrogates in the DNC contemplated using Bernie’s secular Judaism against him. The leaks forced DNC chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz to resign. Maybe the leaks just show dirty politics as usual, but we’re living at a moment when huge sections of society want to throw a molotov at the status quo. They don’t want the same lesser-of-two-evils bargain. Several Sanders supporters I know are voting for Trump and, despite his entreaties, I know many more who are staying home or voting Green. Yes, Trump was a lurid, fascist lunatic, one man told me on social media. But he wouldn’t let this scare him into voting for a Democrat he saw as a neoconservative. The Republican party would keep on trotting out lurid, fascist lunatics every election. If that’s all it took to get people like him to vote Democrat, Democrats would just keep drifting further to the right. If the choice was between a demagogue and a corporate puppet, people like him would opt out.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   No Rome will burn on my watch … Hillary ClintonSome feminists have argued that this was the way it had to be. Historically, the women who have been “the first” in deeply sexist societies, such as Margaret Thatcher in Britain and Indira Gandhi in India, have done it by being even more cutthroat than the men. Clinton is equal to almost any Washington man, in terms of both experience and lack of ethics, but the country judges her ambition far more harshly. While this makes her a victim of sexism, I care more about the victims of her policies, such as Berta Cáceres, the Honduran environmental activist murdered in March, most likely by the military dictatorship that Clinton supported.Pundits often say Clinton is “not likable”. While this reeks of misogyny, for many people it’s true. I’m voting for Clinton. I don’t like her, though she would have made a fine Republican candidate back when the party was sane. I don’t like how her campaign panders: one now-viral list touted reasons why Clinton was “just like your abuela”. I don’t like how she justified mass incarceration by smearing gangs of kids as “super-predators”, nor her cosiness with dictators and coups.I’d like Clinton more if she told the truth about herself: that she is a smart, amoral and competent steward of American empire, who understands material reality and the laws of physics. And that – although it is perhaps not the most exciting case one can make for a leader – this is more than you can say for her Republican opponent. I wonder if Clinton wishes she were running in a different country, one to which she could speak frankly. She’d look it in the eye, and say: “Yes, I believe in nothing. But I’m an intelligent adult. No Rome will burn on my watch. I’ll keep us on the slow decline to which you people are accustomed. I’ll make nothing better – but I won’t make things radically worse.” For too long, Americans have heard political involvement begins and ends at the ballot box Clinton, with all of her years of experience, is synonymous with the political machine that Trump and Sanders voters alike are rejecting. Sanders might have won over some of the voters attracted to Trump’s populism, but Clinton won’t. Instead, she attempts to target the more than 40% of the US electorate who don’t vote, and haul them out of their homes with fear. That, ostensibly, is the strategy of one recent piece of anti-Trump campaigning: a montage of his quotes, about building the wall, banning Muslims, punishing women for abortions. For Trump voters, it may as well be an advertisement. What has been the best thing about this terrible election so far? Ironically, it’s something spawned by Tangerine Mussolini himself. The anti-Trump protests started with single individuals. In November, there was Mercutio Southall Jr, the protester who was beaten by a mob of Trump supporters for daring to shout “black lives matter” at a rally. In January, a South Carolina rally for Trump threw out Rose Hamid for wearing a yellow star that read Muslim – a reference to the infamous badge Nazis forced on Jews.Who supports Donald Trump? The new Republican center of gravity Even though it was dangerous, this spirit of defiance grew. By March, thousands of protesters – black and Muslim, Mexican and leftist – forced Tangerine Mussolini to cancel his Chicago rally following violent scuffles. “One of the best days of my life. I’ll never forget tonight,” tweeted Mohannad Rachid, a young Syrian-American activist, who was in the stadium that night.The FBI visited Cleveland activists in the lead-up to the RNC, and the city shipped in tens of thousands of police. Unsurprisingly, the protests fizzled at the convention. At most, media outnumbered demonstrators three to one. Yet the anti-Trump protests showed a vital truth. Elections are important, this one more so than ever. The president can still destroy the world – but even the best president cannot save it. For too long, Americans have heard political involvement begins and ends at the ballot box. This is the discourse of disenfranchisement. To confine politics to elections means abandoning them to the powerful, leaving them unaccountable and cloistered in Washington.Real politics belong in the streets.