The image of Evan Spiegel’s supermodel fiance Miranda Kerr taking a selfie inevitably dominated the coverage of Snapchat’s initial public offering (IPO) at the New York Stock Exchange last week. But look beyond Kerr’s sleek shoulder-robing look and you will find Spiegel himself is a pretty snappy dresser. He and co-founder Bobby Murphy rang the bell in sharp suits, the kind ushers might wear at a wedding. Dressing up for your IPO makes a change from the Mark Zuckerberg-approved scruffiness – a sartorial humblebrag for billionaires – that has dominated Silicon Valley. But what tech-preneurs have worn to make bank is changing – here’s a look at how it has evolved over the years.Bill Gates  Bill Gates poses outdoors with Microsoft’s first laptop in 1986. Photograph: Joe McNally/Getty ImagesThe Microsoft billionaire is now as well-known for his beatific “I do philanthropy” smile as he is for his penchant for a V-neck worn over a button-down shirt, typically with chinos. The “financier on the weekend” look has been there since Microsoft went public in 1986.Steve Jobs      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Steve Jobs, remembered for his black poloneck and dad jeans. Photograph: Bloomberg via Getty ImagesFor Apple’s IPO in 1980, Steve Jobs had a Tom Selleck vibe – tache and a checked shirt. But it’s the black poloneck and dad jeans from the noughties that are iconic – and influential. Both are seen on twentysomethings in 2017 – accessorised with an iPhone, of course.Mark Zuckerberg      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mark Zuckerberg in his trademark hoody in 2012. Photograph: Eduardo Munoz/ReutersAt the start of 2016, Zuckerberg – a man with a net worth of £46.86bn – shared a snap of his closet. It contained multiple grey hoodies and T-shirts, Zuckerberg’s uniform. What did he wear for the Stock Exchange the day Facebook went public in 2012? A hoody and grey T-shirt, naturally.Jack Dorsey      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey at the company’s launch on the New York Stock Exchange, 2013. Photograph: Andrew Burton/Getty ImagesZuckerberg’s billionaire-in-hiding look wasn’t for Dorsey – a man who has dabbled in both tattoos and beards as sartorial statements. For Twitter’s IPO in 2013, he was yacht-ready with a shaved head and open-necked shirt. Makes sense – he’s now worth £1.14bn.Evan Spiegel      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Evan Spiegel (centre) on the day Snapchat launched on the New York Stock Exchange. Photograph: Justin Lane/EPASpiegel, inevitably, would want to one-up Dorsey. Hence the proper suit and tie, which is so smart and conservative that it would probably pass the Trump staff member dress code. Take note: this is what a man who made around £222m in a single day looks like in 2017.