“What’s it all about?” cried an anguished student when we were talking about Circa’s The Return at the Barbican recently – as if it was some kind of fiendish puzzle that must be solved. I’m afraid when talking about The Return I could give no right or wrong answers, even though I had seen it.My job as a theatre writer may come with a level of authority invested – as if I should have answers like tablets to hand down – but if I’m honest I often don’t know any more than anyone else in the audience. Sometimes a wordless show like The Return, which is very different in form to most theatre, presents particular difficulties for audiences and critics, when our theatre culture has traditionally been such a text-based one. Circa: The Return five-star review – 'I've seldom seen such grief on stage' Like every other member of the audience, all I can ever do is say what I think I saw (and there are nights when I imagine things that aren’t there at all and miss things that definitely are). I can just say what The Return meant to me, what it felt like for me to be there and the effect it had on me. I reckon that means watching a show with your heart and guts as much as your head, being attuned to its texture and tone, and taking the time to learn the vocabulary it is using. It’s liberating for a theatregoer not to worry too much whether you’ve worked out exactly what it’s about. If you want to solve something, buy a Rubik’s Cube, not a theatre ticket.Not knowing exactly what it’s about doesn’t mean your response is invalid. Last week, despite having no answers as to exactly what it was about or precisely what the artists intended, I wrote a five-star review for The Return. Over at Time Out, Andrzej Lukowski gave five stars to Caryl Churchill’s Escaped Alone at the Royal Court, while admitting that “deciphering the exact meaning behind a Caryl Churchill play feels like a fruitless task”. Instead he tells us, among other things, that “in one scene they simply sing the Crystals’ hit Da Doo Ron Ron, and it’s as lovely a thing as I can remember happening on a stage anywhere”. Similarly, the Observer’s Susannah Clapp vividly evokes Linda Bassett in Escaped Alone: “Apparently implacable, she always has wit tucked into the corner of her mouth like a sweet. Just look at her face break into beams at the word ‘biscuit’.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Linda Bassett as Mrs Jarrett in Escaped Alone by Caryl Churchill. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianHow much more immediate and revealing are both of those descriptions than trying to pin down exactly what Escaped Alone is about – as if the play is a test in which the author is deliberately trying to trip everyone up. (Churchill famously seldom gives interviews so there is no pre-publicity telling theatregoers what it all means in advance.) In Chris Goode’s recently published book The Forest and the Field,  he considers Susan Sontag’s essay Against Interpretation and argues that “content is wildly over-emphasised (because it can be traded for interpretation in the marketplace of saleable readings) and form [is] disastrously under-acknowledged” in our critical culture. I think that’s true and that in our desire to prove we’ve “got” a show by desperately trying to understand its content, we risk what Sontag called “a subtle or not so subtle philistinism”.