I had no intention of playing hard to get. That was the furthest thing from my mind when I said no to Mike, my best guy friend, the first time he asked me to go out on a date. The moment the word was out of my mouth I began to have second thoughts about my decision. I was a 66-year-old widow, sitting at a bar in an elegant hotel on a beautiful spring night, having a cocktail with a man I had known and trusted for four decades.Nothing should have been more exciting to hear than that question. And yet there was something about the very thought of attempting to change our relationship into a romance that terrified me.I met Mike on the first day I entered law school at the University of Virginia. I was a 22-year-old graduate of a woman’s college, suddenly landed on a campus with hundreds of male students, most of whom were my age – and single. Four of them surrounded me in the school cafeteria after our introductory classes, and Mike was the only one among them who was already married.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Linda, second left, and Mike, far right, with friends in their first year at law school, 1969.Our friendship was formed instantly and firmly. We studied together, partied together, read the same crime novels – he introduced me to Elmore Leonard and Carl Hiaasen – and we shared a passion for 40s film noir. We played the word game hangman in class most days – all with movie titles – which had a deleterious effect on my grades, but not Mike’s. We both moved to New York to practise law – Mike at a Wall Street firm and me as one of the United States’s first special victims’ prosecutors. Once I married, we enjoyed spending time as couples, whether dining and going to the theatre in Manhattan or travelling abroad.So what was the reason for my powerful reluctance to test the waters? To see if a romance with my best pal was in the stars? I’d had a great marriage and relished the idea of being a couple again with someone I loved. Mike’s long marriage had broken up four months before he asked me if I wanted to date. There were no legitimate obstacles in our way, but I spent a sleepless night imagining all sorts of reasons not to turn this inviting corner.The most obvious fear I had was that altering the nature of the relationship might bring the friendship to an end. That thought filled me with dread. Mike had been my confidante through most life crises, both professional and personal. I had leaned on him when trying high-profile murder cases, just as he had helped me through the periods of loss of my parents and my late husband.He was the kind of friend who was as solid as a rock – to me and to so many others – and I was terrifically apprehensive at the thought that something might compromise that foundation. The ease with which we had communicated – talking on the phone almost every day of our adult lives – argued in favour of the fact that we got along well. But for each “good” point I tallied, I immediately came up with an opposite consideration.As I tossed and turned that first night, I made columns of positive and negative factors to weigh up. What if our compatibility didn’t extend to a physical match? I was stuck on that one for hours.What if my grandsons didn’t approve of the idea of me dating? What if Mike’s kids objected? To add a layer of complexity to that last one, I threw in that I am actually the godmother of Mike’s son, which seemed to add a twist to the dynamics. The “nos” won the first round of my debate with myself.I knew that we would talk long before noon the next day, which was part of our routine. I didn’t have an answer ready for Mike, so I just avoided the subject all together in our conversation.I have a great posse of girlfriends and decided to bring some of them in on my dilemma. My dearest pal is my college roommate, who lives in Los Angeles and has known Mike since the time I met him. I told her I had a secret that she needed to keep – blood oath, as we always jokingly referred to our confidences – and that I wanted her advice on a matter of the heart.What could be better than dating your best friend, she replied without an ounce of hesitation? My second sounding board, a famous television presenter, was equally enthusiastic. She had been trying to fix me up with a prominent businessman and I had repeatedly declined because I just wasn’t emotionally ready to date. If you are even considering making this move, she argued, you must be ready. “Go for it,” was her enthusiastic response. My sleepless nights of worrying brought on dark circles under my eyes. And should I invest in new lingerie? Once I had decided to go out with Mike, there were the simple superficial concerns any woman might have. How could I possibly lose 10lb in the next week, before undressing in front of a man I adored for the first time? (Much later on, it made me smile when Mrs Hughes in the final season of Downton Abbey sent Mrs Padmore to ask Carson whether at this later stage in their lives he expected a “full” marriage. Déjà vu!)My sleepless nights of worrying about the decision to date Mike brought on the dark circles under my eyes. And should I invest in new lingerie? I credit my former roommate – married to a man she met when we were at college – for the wisest suggestion. She said that unlike being introduced to a woman for the first time at this age, Mike would always look at me and see the 22-year-old “girl” he’d become attached to all those years ago. I found a picture of us from that first autumn in 1969 – my brown hair, mini-skirt and youthful long legs alongside Mike in his bell-bottom jeans. It was a very comforting thought.For several months, we had been meeting for breakfast every week at a local coffee shop. I had never been to the hotel where he’d been living since his separation, and he had never been to my apartment. On a Monday morning about a week after Mike first broached the idea, I told him – over coffee and toast – that I was delighted to accept his offer of a date.Some of my friends were curious about whether sparks had ever flown between us throughout all the years together. But they had not. He was a newlywed when we met and I was awash in young gentleman scholars at a time when the law school gender split was pretty extreme.I was one of a dozen women in a class of 340 students and I think only a handful of them were married. I used to ask Mike to introduce me to guys he’d met, which he did several times – was he playing an adorable Cyrano for me? That idea never occurred to me. He has a great sense of humour and a razor-sharp edge, so whenever Mike criticised my hairstyle or nail varnish or clothing choice over the years, I never thought there was the slightest frisson or hint of sexual tension.I just thought it was his direct nature and cutting tongue, not a sort of flirtation. This feeling was new.We made a plan for dinner on Friday evening. I hadn’t been nervous about a first date in 30 years, but I was on pins and needles all day. He told his adult children that we had made a date, and they were most gracious about the idea. That helped.We picked a spectacular restaurant that both of us loved, although we had never been there together. I pampered myself at the hairdresser and nail salon, and actually bought a new dress for the occasion.I can’t really remember what it felt like when I was primping for my high school senior prom, but this time I had that tingling sensation that was reminiscent of my teenage emotions. I vowed to make one request for our date. Not only was Mike quick to send barbs my way – rarely compliments – he always called me by my last name, or sometimes the shortened version – Fairs – whenever he addressed me. Forty years of that! So I had added one condition for my date: I wanted him to address me as Linda.I wasn’t going to be courted by my surname – such an unromantic thought. He conceded that point.I took a cab to the restaurant and arrived a few minutes before Mike. The maître d’ gave us a quiet table in the corner – candlelit, of course – and when he took our cocktail order – Scotch for me, bourbon for Mike – we both asked for doubles.I was almost giddy with delight. For once, neither of us talked about work. The chatter and laughter came naturally, without any tension or hesitancy. There was an intimacy to the evening that was thoroughly charming. Once Mike reached his hand across the table and squeezed mine, I knew there was no safer place to be.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Happy together ... Linda and Mike, at Christmas 2014.We took a cab to my apartment and I said goodnight – with a kiss – in front of the doorman. I hadn’t counted on laughing when we first kissed each other, but that’s exactly what happened. It was a totally platonic smooch, but it was pregnant with the expectation of something less laughable to come.Game on, I thought. I felt so happy and uplifted that I couldn’t believe I’d had a moment of doubt.Things moved fast. There seemed to be nothing about our days and nights together that wasn’t interesting and fun. Beneath everything was that foundation of trust that had been built so very long ago. By summer, we were practically inseparable. We both take our work very seriously, just as we do our leisure time. By June we had been to Mike’s ranch in Montana, my farmhouse on Martha’s Vineyard, the remote, unpopulated Bahamian Exuma islands – and it was clear to us that the relationship worked well everywhere.One year later, we eloped and were married in our garden on Martha’s Vineyard – exactly 44 years to the day we met.There is an adage about hesitation that is often misquoted. The actual line comes from a 1712 play by Joseph Addison called Cato, A Tragedy and reads: “The woman who deliberates is lost.”Fortunately, my deliberation was short and Mike’s ardour, to my eternal delight, saved me from myself.• Devil’s Bridge by Linda Fairstein is published by Sphere, £8.99. To order a copy for £6.99, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99