Pregnancy tests become more affordable if bought in bulk online. And if you’re prepared to forfeit the plastic casing around the thin strip that actually does the business, they’re cheaper still (though there’s a much greater risk of peeing on your hand). I’m a bit of an expert, having taken more than 100 in the space of five weeks. I also know a bit about ultrasound scans. The NHS provides one at 12 and again at 20 weeks pregnant. I needed a bit more reassurance than that; at a cost of almost £2,000 over seven months.We are sold a rose-tinted view of impending motherhood, bombarded with images of women with neat little bumps, faces radiant with joy and excitement. The message is clear: enjoy this special time.For me, being pregnant was a feat of endurance, a white-knuckle ride. Over 39 weeks I was plunged into a dark tunnel. Unable to turn back or see the ground in front of me, even a single step forward seemed impossible.I have two children, but in my mind, I’ve only been pregnant once. Antenatal depression and anxiety robbed me of my first pregnancy. Five years on, their effects still ripple through family life.In early 2010, my partner and I learned we were expecting our first child. We’d begun making happy plans when the routine 12-week scan revealed that a “missed miscarriage” had taken place. The foetus had stopped developing but remained in the womb. I was heartbroken and took the loss personally. Not only had my body let us down, it had also been too stupid to realise.In hindsight, taking some time to grieve would have put things into perspective. One in four pregnancies end in miscarriage and, though upsetting, our experience was not unique. Instead, I was gripped by fear. I’d always considered motherhood my vocation. What if my body wasn’t up to the job?The desire to be pregnant again was all-consuming. To my surprise, I had a positive pregnancy test within six weeks. The day after finding out, however, I began to bleed. Not much, but enough to suspect another miscarriage and compound my fears. My GP explained that an early ultrasound could confirm or deny the pregnancy. Could I have one that day? “You’ll need to wait at least five weeks,” was the reply.  Rowan Martin while pregnant with her first daughter.Frustrated at being unable to do anything constructive, I stumbled across something compulsive instead. The pregnancy test had come from a pack of two. Using the one that remained felt like a way of regaining control. It came up positive, giving me a surge of hope. I began to take numerous tests each day, disposing of the packaging in secret. The anticipation of that pink line appearing in the positive window and the pay-off when it did became utterly addictive.By the time the ultrasound revealed that I was still pregnant, it was too late to relax and let nature take its course. The ground felt as though it could crumble beneath my feet at any moment; the belief that this baby was in danger was already carved in stone.I stopped taking the tests, but soon found other ways to take refuge from the anxieties that just wouldn’t go away. I began visiting a private clinic for so many 10-minute “reassurance” scans that I should have been offered a loyalty card. At a cost of £130 a visit, my new habit was financially crippling. But each scan was a temporary reprieve from the relentless fear that was beginning to rule my life. I also bought a heartbeat monitor. Locating and listening to the baby’s galloping heartbeat was gold dust – unquestionable proof of life.In the later months of the pregnancy, I became increasingly preoccupied with stillbirth. Having learned that a decrease in foetal activity might be cause for alarm, I began to monitor the baby’s movements obsessively. I started making emergency dashes to the hospital where they’d reassure me that everything was fine. Comments were made about raging hormones and trying to relax. I’d laugh it off, along with the staff, as first baby paranoia. A few hours later, at home, I’d be plunged back into despair.I couldn’t bear to look at or touch my bump, nor would I let my partner so much as rest his hand on it. I developed a phobia of other pregnant women (convinced that their babies were safe while mine was under constant threat) and found antenatal classes intolerable. Attempted visits to Mothercare ended in panic attacks and, on one occasion, vomiting in the car park. Discussing maternity leave, coming up with baby names, comparing prams online with my partner – all overwhelmed me with hopelessness. To protect myself, I’d zone out, going through the motions but feeling completely numb inside.Joy, fear and hating the word ‘bump’: nine things I learned about pregnancy Instead of preparing for the birth or pondering how I wanted to parent, I spent my spare time researching what might go wrong; from the odds of a Down’s syndrome diagnosis to survival rates for premature births. The endless worrying was a way of coping with the uncertainty of pregnancy, as I prepared myself for any and every outcome bar a positive one.I’ve always been a control freak and a perfectionist. Pregnancy felt like being in limbo. My increasing need to “check up” on the baby was a fruitless attempt to wrest back control of my body and mind. I didn’t trust mother nature to begin with. Now I saw evidence of her random cruelty everywhere. Late in the pregnancy I attended a funeral. The graveyard seemed riddled with tiny tombstones bearing the words “Born sleeping”. At a time when everyone kept talking about new life, all I could see was death.My daughter came hurtling into my life, a week before her due date, after an 18-hour labour that I remember only as a traumatic, terrifying blur. I was curled up sobbing on the sofa when my waters broke, wondering if I’d still want to live after the baby had died. Two days later, I left hospital with a very real, very tiny person in my arms. “Enjoy her,” the nurse who discharged us said. I was light years away from that. It took months for me to say her name out loud. To this day, I can list the songs I’d selected to play at her funeral.Nothing can really prepare you for motherhood, but my experiences during pregnancy left me scrambling to catch up so much lost ground that I’m not sure I’ll ever feel safe in the role. Looking back, the shock must have carried me through the first couple of weeks, before everything went black. The cost of a pregnancy spent in denial, divorced from reality, was spending 12 weeks in a psychiatric mother and baby unit. They called it postnatal depression. To me, it felt more like post-traumatic stress disorder.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rowan Martin with her daughter, April 2011Two years on, the events of my first pregnancy still felt too enormous to fully comprehend. My partner and I never really discussed having a second baby. Perhaps we knew that if we sat down to talk it through, the cons would overwhelm the pros in minutes. We had never wanted to have just one child and, despite the rocky start, our daughter brought us so much joy. We didn’t so much actively try for another baby as silently agree not to take precautions. Maybe it was a huge risk – but isn’t it for everyone? If we hadn’t been brave enough to try again, we’d never have had another wonderful daughter in late 2013.The two pregnancies were as different as night and day. I waited for the darkness to descend, but it never happened. Perhaps because I had a toddler that consumed every waking minute. Perhaps due to the support I received from the other mothers I’d met. Undoubtedly, motherhood, in all its gory glory, had challenged my inflexible, perfectionist nature. Yes, there were worries, but this time I accepted that I had little control over the outcome. In doing so, I was able to surrender and leave it all to a body that had already grown, given birth and breastfed a baby. A body I had finally learned to trust.I love my girls equally, but the relationship I have with my first is often more confusing and complicated than the simple but strong bond I share with her sister. Sometimes, watching her sleep or hugging her tight, I feel compelled to whisper “I’m so sorry.”I’ll always feel guilty for exposing her to so much stress and trauma in the womb, at a time when my only job was to keep her safe. I’ll always be hyper-vigilant when it comes to her mental health and will often need to remind myself that there’s no reason to give her special treatment or handle her with kid gloves.It wasn’t until I’d experienced a mentally healthy pregnancy, during which I’d been able to bond with the baby I carried, that I began to realise the full extent of what I’d lost the first time round. I try not to blame myself too much. As with all mental health conditions, “pulling myself together” or “snapping out of it” wasn’t an option. I’ve let go of as much anger and resentment as I can, but certain things (pregnant women, tiny baby clothes, other people’s ultrasound pictures) still make me feel cheated.I know I’m lucky. I have two healthy, hardy daughters. Despite the dark places my first pregnancy took our family to, my girls are the light of our lives. And an enduring baby shop phobia means we’ve saved thousands for the bright future I know is ahead of them both.