Did you know Parramatta means “place of many eels”? Or that Bondi is “the breaking wave”? A writer with Murri heritage who has grown up in Sydney, I am a little bashful to admit that until this past weekend I did not know the meaning behind the names of many well-known landmarks in the city I call home.This year’s Sydney festival introduces an Aboriginal language course series, Bayala (“speak”), which booked out completely within only four weeks of being announced: a confirmation of the growing interest in reawakening local languages. The Bayala series is part of an ongoing project for festival director Wesley Enoch, who has also commissioned one of its convenors, Aunty Jacinta Tobin from the Darug nation, and other language experts to write a song completely in language to be shared and sung as part of a mass choral performance at the WugulOra morning ceremony on 26 January. Why Sydney festival's wooing of the west points to the future of the arts Tobin and Gadigal man Joel Davison shared local knowledge, song and language at the drop-in language classes at New South Wales State Library, which, on the Saturday I attended, was packed with keen students. After going around the class, each of us explaining what we hoped to gain from the experience, it was clear the majority were locals, keen to kindle a sense of place and identity within our hometown.Learning to speak the language is really the best way to get to the heart of a culture. And as sounds carry vibrations, which are said to be healing to the land – a beautiful and intriguing concept shared by Tobin – what better way to understand Aboriginal culture but to continue these vibrations? Along with the aforementioned place names, also discussed were greetings, kinship, customs and cultural quirks. Though we covered only a small amount of material in the two-hour class, I felt a sense of grounding and a desire to learn more. It was a reminder of the power of language, and until we understand the culture and values that for thousands of years nurtured the land we now live on, we are not truly connected to or part of the place we call home, but merely tourists skimming the surface. As language gives us identity through sounds, performance can explore identity through physical representation. In Blood on the Dancefloor Narangga/Kaurna dancer and writer Jacob Boehme uses dance and physical theatre to explore personal identity. The audience is invited to journey intimately with Boehme as he tries to make sense of and reorient himself in a world newly shadowed by his HIV-positive diagnosis.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Blood on the Dancefloor: an honest conveyance of the realities of living with an illness that is sadly still stigmatised. Photograph: Prudence UptonUsing blood as a motif, with its ability to pass on genetics, memory and knowledge, Boehme examines the politics and intimacies of relationships as a black, gay, HIV-positive man, visiting the Sydney gay scene in the 80s with great humour and emotion: the anxieties and neuroses of new relationships, casual encounters, family. His father, for example, is a strong figure who has accepted his son’s sexuality but frets that he will end up alone and yearns for grandchildren, asking if he would consider having two identities: one as a gay man and the other as a husband who would eventually become a father himself.In his confusion, Boehme turns to his ancestors and culture for answers, and finds that the need to be connected and part of his community is the grace that can save a life. A brilliant, brave and honest conveyance of the realities of living with an illness that is sadly still stigmatised, Boehme felt compelled to create this piece to “create a space for our mob to have a voice in the dialogue around HIV”. The audience were clearly moved by his willingness to share his story unflinchingly: on opening night, Boehme received a standing ovation and whooping cheers.1967: Music in the Key of Yes review – an impassioned retrospective on Indigenous rights The festival’s exploration of identity reached its crescendo with 1967: Music in the Key of Yes. The concert celebrates 50 years since the 1967 referendum, in which Australians voted overwhelmingly in support of removing passages in the constitution that discriminated against Aboriginal people.Featuring a selection of songs written by black artists from the 60s onward, the set list speaks to the influence the American civil rights movement had on the psyche of Indigenous people, with the inclusion of artists such as Nina Simone (Feeling Good) and Sam Cooke (A Change Is Gonna Come), alongside anthems from Warumpi Band (Blackfella/Whitefella) and Yothu Yindi (Treaty).With performances by both established and emerging Indigenous artists, 1967: Music in the Key of Yes is purely a celebration of the milestone, without seeking to place a final meaning on the referendum vote. A sell-out event that was widely praised by the audience, the evening’s stand out for many was the stirring and evocative performance by Yolgnu artist, Yirrmal, whose soaring vocals in language let us all know that despite continued oppression, Indigenous culture is enduring, resilient and very much alive.Sydney festival revives the senses with a focus on immersive experiences Enoch’s Sydney festival programming is earthy, humorous and not shy of making a statement. It’s clear he wants Sydney to be culturally and artistically engaging, but not without first exploring the foundations and history that its identity rests on. And with a long way to go before equality and autonomy is realised for Indigenous people in Australia, it is heartening to see such a strong Indigenous-centred programming thread in this year’s festival – one that takes us beyond the alluring aesthetics of our harbour city to reconnect us with its history, and in turn connect us to ourselves and our community. • Sydney festival runs until 29 January