By the age of eight, I could pull a pint of bitter. I needed to stand on a chair and then to use all my weight, almost dangling from the pump in order to pull it down and release the deep amber liquid into the dimpled pint pot. Granny or Uncle Colin would be behind me, telling me to go steady and watch the head, catching the pump as it lurched back, putting a hand under the glass just in case. I was better at dropping lemon quarters in an inch of gin, its fierce juniper scent making my nose twitch. I was better still at impaling cocktail cherries on toothpicks for Babycham, or my own tame snowball, which I would drink sitting up at the bar with my brother, wreathed in cigarette smoke, legs swinging from the high stool in time to songs we didn’t really understand: “If you want my body, and you think I’m sexy, come on sugar let me know...”A good slice of my childhood was spent at my granny’s pub, The Gardeners Arms: a large, red-brick Robinson’s pub at the bottom of Durham street in Oldham, in Greater Manchester. For years it had been a troubled local, a succession of landlords who hadn’t settled in, giving the brewery a real headache, but then Alice came along. She was quite a woman, Alice Jones. At first glance she seemed delicate, dainty even, but she wasn’t. Born in Manchester, the youngest of five girls, Alice was brought up by her sisters after her father died from war injuries and her mother went back to work. She was strong and hardworking, with a capacity to clean, the likes of which I have never seen since. She had also spent her 20s working in the accounts office at Kellogg’s and reading books and papers. This combination of hardworking hands, a head for accounts and knowledge, along with creamy Lancome beauty and charm, made her quite the landlady. I remember her both in her housecoat buffing the brass tables and flushing out the pipes – good bitter comes from a clean cellar and clean pipes – then, later, when regulars had taken their place, coming down the stairs ready for the night. “You look a million dollars Al,” my grandpa Gerry would say, Bob Seger curling out of the juke box in agreement: “She was looking so right, in her diamonds and frills...”By the time we three grandkids arrived in the 1970s, you were safe in The Gardeners Arms, the convivial heart of that part of town. It was regulars only and everybody knew everyone’s name, game – darts, billiards, cribbage or chat – drink and business. Alice had also started serving food, her sister May at the stove. May was even smaller and tougher than Alice: I remember her frying, shouting at my uncle Frank or cracking her 30-a-day laugh. May’s specialty was “steak Canadian” – a strip of steak, flash fried with onions stuffed in large white rolls called oven-bottom cakes. There were also bacon or tongue sandwiches; and pies: meat and potato or cheese and onion – both served with peas. On Sunday, once the pub had closed after the lunch service and the last customers swayed away, bottles clinking in their pockets, we would push the brass tables together and lay for our Sunday lunch, a roast and all the trimmings on the side, a tangle of family relations, and as many coins as we wanted for the jukebox.Later, when she left the pub, Alice continued to make pie and peas. She was an inveterately particular and good pastry maker, and it is her voice, specific and firm, I hear when I make pastry: “You want cold hands. Run them under cold tap, then work quickly, rubbing until it looks like breadcrumbs, and use iced water.”Rachel Roddy’s recipes for three winter salads I miss her voice, with its soft Manchester lilt. It is the same lilt I hear and love in Simon Hopkinson’s writing: his stories and recipes from his Lancashire mum; familiar, and therefore comforting. His recipes are also full of common sense and good taste, so unbeatable. Today’s is his recipe.Cheese and onion pie is just that: cheese and onion – nothing more, nothing less. It is a straightforward, smashing pie, a soft filling encased in short, crumbling pastry, meaning you need to chase the last few crumbs amount the plate with a finger tip. I find all lard pastry a bit hard to handle, and so prefer half-lard, half-butter, which makes for a short, but manageable pastry. You start the white onions in butter then add a cup of water, which creates a steamy braise. Once all the water has been driven away by cooking, and the onions are soft, they are ready. The cheese should be Lancashire: its fluffy texture, creamy flavour and the fact that it melts, but doesn’t pull into strings, make it ideal. It is is near impossible to find Lancashire cheese in Rome, so I made do with a mix of young pecorino and caciocavallo, which worked well enough. Make sure you seal the edges of the pie well, pinching and pressing. After baking, let the pie rest before turning it out of the tin, otherwise you might have a mishap.Cheese and onion pie cries out for a dab of English mustard or piccalilli. I had neither. I am not sure what Auntie May would have said about the frilly-edged tin or pink radicchio – plenty I imagine. I wished for a pint of Robbies bitter with my slice, and to be transported, for a moment, to The Gardeners Arms, with everyone there; to put another coin in the jukebox baby, “cum on feel the noize, girls grab the boys, we get wild wild wild...”Simon Hopkinson’s cheese and onion pieServes 4-6250g self-raising flour60g cold butter, diced60g cold lard, dicedSalt2–3 tbsp iced water3 medium onions25g butter250-300g cheese, ideally Lancashire, but cheddar or young pecorino romano works tooBlack or white pepperMilk, for sealing and glazing 1 You will need a loose-bottomed tart tin, about 20cm wide x 4cm deep. Make the pastry by rubbing the fat into the flour with your fingertips, or pulsing with a food processor, until the mix resembles breadcrumbs. Add a pinch of salt and enough iced water – gradually and cautiously – to make a ball of dough, neither too sticky, nor too firm. Wrap the dough in clingfilm and chill for at least 30 minutes.2 Peel, half and slice the onion into half moons. In a frying pan, melt the butter over a low flame, then add the onions and a pinch of salt and cook, stirring for a few minutes. Add a small glass of water and then cook, stirring occasionally, for about 15 minutes until the water has been driven away and the onion is very soft. Remove from the heat and allow to cool. Grate the cheese.3 Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4. Roll out ⅔ of the pastry and use it to line the base and sides of the tin, so it overhangs slightly. Do not trim yet, but prick the base with a fork. Make a layer with half the onion, grind over a little black pepper, then make a layer using half the cheese. Repeat. Paint the edges of the dough with milk. Roll the remaining dough into a circle a little larger than the tin, lay it over the filling and then press it firmly into the edges. Trim the excess dough away. Make three short slashes in the middle of the pie to let steam escape. If you you like, use the non-blade side of a knife to make a faint lattice.4 Sit the pie on a preheated baking sheet and bake for 40-50 minutes, or until golden and the cheese is bubbling gently through the slashes. Allow the pie to sit for 30 minutes before turning it out.Rachel Roddy is a food writer based in Rome and the author of Five Quarters: Recipes and Notes from a Kitchen in Rome (Saltyard) and winner of the André Simon food book award @racheleats. Recipe from Simon Hopkinson’s book, The Good Cook – out now.Rachel will be back on Tuesday next week. 