The lawyer: ‘Helen’s barrister is not making a very good job of it’Rob Titchener is weeping in court. “I just wanted her to get better so we could be a family and she still did this to me. Why, Helen? All I ever did was love you. Was that so very wrong?” What a performance. Let’s hope the jury can see through it – or are Archers fans. If they have been listening to the Radio 4 drama over the past year, they will be well aware why Helen stabbed Rob one night at Blossom Hill cottage, leaving him close to death in a pool of his own blood on the kitchen floor. Ever since they got married last summer, Rob has been systematically abusing Helen psychologically, physically and sexually. But now she is the one up for attempted murder, and he is playing the victim.And on the performance so far of Helen’s barrister, Anna Tregorran, it is not looking good for her. “She’s not making a very good job of it,” says Jeannie Mackie, criminal barrister at Doughty Street Chambers. “I don’t know if [the writers] are making her deliberately bad and making her psychological state a subplot, or whether they haven’t written it in a way that is realistic, legally.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It’s not looking good for Helen’: Louiza Patikas, who plays Helen Titchener and Timothy Watson (Rob Titchener). Photograph: Pete Dadds/BBCThe cross-examination of Rob is Tregorran’s most important job. “By the end of it, the jury should be thinking: ‘We’re really not sure about this person, we don’t really believe him, he isn’t being truthful.’ But she hasn’t established any facts or any allegations against him.”Rob, who was severely injured but gradually recovered, limped into court using a walking stick, which was a surprise to Helen’s father and brother in the gallery. “One of the questions I would have asked would be: ‘When you do the coaching for the cricket team, do you use a stick? Or, ‘When you were interviewed for your new job, did you go in with a stick?’” says Mackie. That’s the sort of information Tregorran should have been furnished with, mainly by a solicitor, but she could have picked up snippets of information about him in Ambridge, where she is staying with her mother.“If Anna could have established early on that he was a liar about the degree of his incapacity, then that puts into doubt everything he says after that. This stick business was a complete gift for the defence, and she didn’t appear to notice.”To be fair, says Mackie, it doesn’t sound as if the cross-examination has finished (the trial lasts all week). There is an art to it – imagine cross-examination as if it’s a box. “One question builds one wall, the next builds another wall and, finally, you’ve got the person boxed in and there’s no way out.” She didn’t do any preparatory cross-examination, says Mackie, but just went straight in and told him he was a bully. “She didn’t really put any facts to him.” One of the awful things that happens to women who are victims of abuse is they blame themselves Tregorran has experience prosecuting abusive men, so “she knows what he’s like, she knows the type of man he is, she has professional and possibly personal experience of men of that character, but she doesn’t appear to have worked out the way of dealing with that kind of person. She let him rant on, when one of the main skills of the cross-examiner is to control a witness, so they don’t have the opportunity to rant on.”Helen hasn’t been the most cooperative client and hasn’t given her barrister a great deal to go on. This isn’t unusual in a case of abuse, says Mackie. “One of the awful things that happens to women who are victims of abuse is they blame themselves, and Rob and people like him play into that. Helen will be feeling very ashamed – of having been raped, of having being struck, of having been frightened. Those things are terribly difficult for anyone to admit to, particularly somebody who has had their confidence reduced. Rob has systematically dismantled her as an independent woman and she is finding it difficult to disclose everything she has to. Probably because she doesn’t believe it as well.”Renowned courtroom artist draws Helen Titchener’s trial for the Archers But her barrister should have, at an early stage, had a psychological assessment done for Helen. “There are psychologists who are very experienced in what we used to call battered women’s syndrome. Anna should have got some ammunition for herself so that then she could explain things.” In the prosecution’s opening statement, there was already mention of how Helen didn’t call an ambulance for her husband, and she will almost certainly be cross-examined “on the basis she was completely callous and intended him to die. A psychologist’s report could explain that was the normal reaction of a woman whose child had been threatened and her primary aim was to protect the child. But Anna hasn’t got the information.”How will the jury react over the course of the week? It’s impossible to say, says Mackie. “There is a theory that juries are harder on women, but I don’t think that’s right,” she says. “If Helen comes over as sympathetic and truthful … I don’t think juries get things wrong very often.” But a huge amount depends on her barrister’s performance. “If she carries on as she is, I’m frightened for Helen,” says Mackie. Most barristers would do a far better job, and it has been irritating to listen to it as a lawyer, but one of the most cathartic things, she says, “is shouting at the radio”. ESThe counsellor: ‘I wish they hadn’t made Helen stab Rob’Like everyone else I have been shouting at the radio. I think [the writers] have handled it very well, but I wish they hadn’t made Helen stab Rob, because incidences of female victims being violent are very rare. I have worked with thousands of women and there have only been a couple of times when one has hit back or thrown something. The plot started off extremely slowly, and coercive control does not start suddenly – it is a slow, drip effect, so subtle you can’t put your finger on what is happening. It’s only with hindsight you see what has been building.Rob charmed the people around Helen, and isolated her – making it seem that everything was down to Helen’s hormones and state of mind. There is often a wily manipulativeness at play – you see it with the way perpetrators interact with social services. They come across as perfect, concerned fathers and draw people in. Many women who come to our groups will say it is the only place they have been where “people have believed me, or didn’t think I was insane”.Helen began to believe Rob herself, which I absolutely see with survivors. The women talk about how they felt they were going mad, even after the abuser had gone. Many of the women who come to my group have escaped abuse years ago, but are still recovering because coercive control causes so much damage. Survivors have to rebuild the trust in themselves, and in their own minds. Self-blame and self-doubt is one of the hardest things to overcome. And a lack of trust in others can also take time to rebuild.The Archers storyline: Have you been affected by domestic violence? I often see cases where the children are either in the care of the abuser – as with Helen’s son Henry – or the abuser is allowed unsupervised contact. The victim often has to jump through hoops to prove she is protecting the children, while everyone seems to forget they are only at risk because the perpetrator is abusive. And the perpetrator can use the child contact time to ask: “What’s mummy doing?”, “Who’s mummy seeing?”Rob stopped Helen from driving, which I have also seen. Some women are stopped from working, or going to college. Others aren’t allowed to go to a doctor’s appointment alone. I used to do crisis work with women at high risk and sometimes it would be hard to speak to a victim because the abuser would always answer the phone, monitor their calls and check their texts.The storyline where Helen cooks Rob tuna, which he doesn’t like, chimes with the women I have seen. Some women would get into trouble for making tea incorrectly – the way the abuser liked it made would change every time they made it. The pettiness is a way of showing how he has complete control.One thing that frightened me was when Helen told Rob she wanted to leave. That is the most dangerous time for women, and when they are most likely to get killed. If I was working with a woman before she had left, I would make it clear that would not be safe or advisable thing to do. Women should wait until an abuser is out and, if possible, leave an emergency bag with someone safe.AT (as told to Homa Khaleeli)Anat Toffell is a group facilitator for Solace Women’s Aid, an independent charity working across London to provide life-saving support to more than 11,000 women and child survivors of domestic and sexual violence a year.The prison expert: ‘Helen will know that she is in a minority of women prisoners facing a long sentence’The Archers’ Helen Titchener should soon learn her fate. If the jury find her guilty of attempting to kill her husband, she will return to prison, and it is likely she would serve at least six years. Whatever happens, in one sense, she will have been lucky. The obvious site for her incarceration, HM Prison Eastwood Park, midway between Gloucester and Bristol, is in easy travelling distance of Ambridge. Most women sent to jail finish up many miles from friends and family. And Eastwood Park, where she will have been since her arrest, has a mother and baby unit, one of the six women’s jails in England to cater for women giving birth. (There are no women’s prisons in Wales.)Eastwood Park is high security, cellular accommodation, surrounded by high, razor-wire-topped fences. It holds up to 360 prisoners, on remand and convicted, some serving long sentences. Each room in its mother and baby unit is self-contained and left unlocked at night. There is a TV lounge with comfortable sofas, a nursery and a sand pit with tiny chairs and tables.Helen will probably know by now that she is in a minority of women in prison of women prisoners in facing a long sentence – around half serve less than three months. Around half, too, of female prisoners are serving time for theft. Less than 20% have committed violent offences.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Women in prison tend to look after each other better than their male counterparts. Photograph: Andrew Aitchison/Corbis via Getty ImagesAs well as the shock of incarceration, Helen will have faced an enormous culture change. Some 52% of women in prison reported having used heroin, crack or cocaine in the weeks before they entered custody (not much of that in Ambridge, I’d imagine).She will have found sympathy; women in jail tend to look after each other better than their male counterparts. And she is literate, so will have been in demand as a letter writer and form filler. Many women in prison are poorly educated. Foreign nationals, many not speaking English, account for some 12% of the female prison population, and represent 81 different nationalities. Again, a long way from life in Ambridge.Confinement apart, she may have chosen to keep herself busy. The prison offers a wide variety of educational and vocational courses, including cookery and salon services, along with drug and alcohol awareness. If she wanted to keep fit, she could have attended the gym or joined the “early morning walking club” – a first for prisons, as far as I know, although the rambling will certainly not have extended beyond the forbidding fences.Although women make up for around 5% of the prison population, they account for more than a quarter of all incidents of self-harm in jails. In the past year, 12 women prisoners have apparently taken their own lives in jails in England. If convicted, Helen will be allowed to keep her child with her until he is 18 months old – although they may be separated sooner, if it is thought the prison environment is damaging the child psychologically.If she is lucky, family members other than her abusive husband will then take care of her children while Helen carries on with her jail term. Of the two babies born in English prisons each week, many are taken into care, or placed in foster homes. Imagine the effect of that on the still-incarcerated mums. EA