Southeastern Algeria in the heart of the Sahara desertThe heat and lack of water render vast desert areas highly unwelcoming, making satellites the best way to observe and monitor these environments on a large scale.In the image above, a large area of rock, appearing purple, stretches across the right, with river erosion patterns testament to an earlier time when the area received more rainfall. Wind-shaped sand dunes are visible on the left.Satellites provide information on areas at risk of soil degradation, erosion and desertification. The data can also assist in the water management of inhabited arid regions, and can track and help predict the movement of dust storms.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: Kompsat-2/KARI/ESAEgmont National Park on New Zealand’s North IslandNational parks protect forested areas from human activities that cause land degradation and deforestation. The boundary between protected and non-protected areas is often very clear in satellite images – as we see here between the green, densely forested area and surrounding agricultural landscape.The land here was first formally protected in 1881, within a 9.6 km radius of the summit of Mount Taranaki, seen to the top right of the image.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: MODIS/Aqua/NASAWinter snows begin to paint the landscape of Asia Minor November snow blankets the peaks of the Caucasus mountains between the Black Sea (west) and Caspian Sea (east), and dusts the higher elevations in Turkey, Iran and Iraq. Near the center of the image are three lakes. The top of the ‘triangle’ of lakes is Sevan Lake, in Armenia, a large freshwater lake which sits at about 1,900m (6,200ft) above sea level and is ringed with fresh snow. To the southwest is Lake Van, Turkey. It is also a high mountain lake but it does not freeze in the cold winters, because it is saline. Greenish waters mark Lake Urmia in Iran. Just two decades ago Lake Urmia was the largest saltwater lake in the Middle East and was home to a wide variety of species, such as pelicans and flamingos. Today the lake has shrunk markedly, and is little more than large salt flat.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: OLI/Landsat-8/NASAShrinking Lake Ebinur, northwestern China near the border of KazakhstanThis image shows human impact on this Central Asian landscape. Lake Ebinur has shrunk by 50% since 1955. The lake’s saline water appears in light blue, while the dried lake bed, or playa, is white. The lake fluctuates from year to year due to natural variations in snowmelt and rainfall but human activity has played a key role in drawing down the lake over the past five decades, according to research published by scientists from the Chinese Academy of Sciences. Nearby Bole, a city of 425,000 people in the Boertala Valley, seen to the west of the lake, consumes significant amounts of water. Farmers in the valley (especially cotton farmers) also irrigate their crops with water that would otherwise go into the lake.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: MODIS/Aqua/NASAA storm off the coast of Libya in the Mediterranean SeaThis storm blew plumes of Saharan dust over the sea. Dust storms contribute to air pollution, reduce visibility, cause airport closures, and increase the risk of traffic accidents. They also can reduce soil fertility, damage crops, decrease the efficiency of solar devices, and damage telecommunications equipment.Dust also plays important roles in the global environment. It provides the ocean with minerals and nutrients that affect water chemistry and marine food webs. Dust aerosols also affect Earth’s radiative balance through the absorption and scattering of incoming sunlight and outgoing terrestrial radiation.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: OLI/Landsat-8/NASAThe peak of Amsterdam Island creates mountain wave cloudsAmsterdam Island pokes out from the southern Indian Ocean at a point between Africa, Australia, and Antarctica – more than 3,000km (2,000 miles) from any continent. It’s peak at 867 meters (2,844ft) is high enough to disrupt the clouds flowing around it producing a distinctive cloud pattern. The island creates wave motions in the air passing over it, much like the bow of a ship creates ripples as it cuts through water. The crests of these waves raised and cooled the air enough to form clouds, while the troughs remain too low and warm for cloud formation.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: ISS/NASAEl Paso and Ciudad Juárez sister cities on the Rio Grande The image shows the second largest metropolitan area (population 2.7 million people) on the Mexico/U.S. border. The centers of El Paso and Ciudad Juárez (image top right) lie close together on opposite sides of the Rio Grande, and large residential areas cover the arid slopes in the rest of the scene. The river crosses the entire image as a prominent line and acts as the international border. (Note that north is to the left in this image.)       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: ISS/NASA Photograph: ISS/NASAA burn scar from recent fires in AustraliaA sheet of white dune sand has been revealed after fires burned away the vegetation cover of desert scrub. The burn scars taper towards the north, indicating that winds from the south likely drove the fires away from start points on the agricultural fence line. For scale, the length of the fenceline is roughly 15km (9 miles).Burn scars are often the most arresting and dominant patterns visible from aircraft and spacecraft when flying over semi-arid regions. At least five fire episodes can be identified by their feather-like shapes in this image. Fires often start at or near rural, agricultural population centers.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: MODIS/Aqua/NASAVog from Cape Verde’s Pico do Fogo volcano Pico do Fogo volcano on Cape Verde’s Fogo island erupted on 23 November, sending out lava flows, heavy ash and gas plumes. By the following evening lava had overtaken the nearby National Park Headquarters, according to the Smithsonian’s Global Volcanism Program. New volcanic activity on 27 November, brought concerns that the nearby town of Portela may be entirely engulfed by lava. The approximately 1,000 residents were evacuated to safety.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: OLI/Landsat-8/NASALakes among the dunes of China’s Badain Jaran DesertDozens of lakes mingle with the tallest sand dunes in the world in this image of China’s Badain Jaran Desert. Researchers have long studied these features, yet mystery continues to enshroud them. What is the source of lake water? How do the megadunes develop and evolve?The Badain Jaran in the Alxa Desert region of Inner Mongolia gives rise to megadunes that tower between 200 to 300 meters (660 to 980ft) tall. The tallest, at 460 meters (1,500ft), is about the same height as New York’s Empire State Building. Scientists have recently combined Landsat images with gravity measurements of the hilly bedrock below to show that the dune’s height is influenced by local geology rather than wind conditions and sand characteristics, as previously thought.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: MODIS/Aqua/NASA‘Glacial flour’ dust blows over the Gulf of AlaskaWhen glaciers grind against underlying bedrock, they produce a silty powder with grains finer than sand. Geologists call it “glacial flour” or “rock flour.” This substance often finds its way into rivers and lakes, colouring the water brown, grey, or aqua. When water levels are low, the flour can dry out on riverbanks and deltas and become dust for winds to lift into the air.A satellite captured this image of northerly winds blowing dust from the Copper River Delta over the Gulf of Alaska. Dust events are most common in this area in the fall, when river and lake levels in south central Alaska are at their lowest.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credit: Landsat 8/USGS/ESA The Jordan Rift Valley in the Middle EastThe most prominent feature in this image is the Dead Sea: the lowest point on Earth’s surface, more than 420 m below sea level. The extremely high salinity means fish cannot live in this water body, although there are bacteria and fungi.With the Jordan River as its main source of water, the Dead Sea is an ‘endorheic’ basin, meaning that the water has no outflow. Nonetheless, the water level has been dropping, an effect of the diversion of incoming water from the river.The greenish rectangles just south of the Sea are a large complex of mineral evaporation ponds used to produce sodium chloride and other salts for the chemical industry and human and animal consumption. These ponds are separated from the northern part of the Dead Sea by what once was the Lisan Peninsula but lowering water levels have exposed the sea bed, dividing the two sections completely.In the lower-left corner of the image, we can clearly see the division between Israel and the Gaza Strip not only by the outline of the border, but in the difference in agricultural practices.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: MODIS/Aqua/NASA Photograph: NASASummer view of Antarctica’s Pine Island BayWinter has lifted from Antarctica’s Pine Island Bay, bathing the area in summer sun. As a result, overpassing satellites can once again acquire sunlit views of massive iceberg B31 as it drifts in the Amundsen Sea and measure it’s size and movement.In early November 2013, the giant iceberg separated from the front of Antarctica’s Pine Island Glacier and began to move across Pine Island Bay, a basin of the Amundsen Sea. Satellite images show B31 had moved west and its surface area has remained stable through the winter.