The track I’ll be opening my next DJ set with Joey Anderson: Above The Cherry Moon   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Beyond sublime, the strange serpentine bassline and vocals are captivating to me. The “astral plane” she describes is the one I want to live in through music.The track I always play to rescue a dancefloor Ital: Toxic Work Environment   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This track really works. It starts off very tender and hypnotic, gradually increasing intensity before the bottom drops out and the lush chords then twist into ugly formations, causing confusion and panic in the audience. But when it finds its form again, complete release takes over.The track that currently gets the most rewinds Paula Temple: Contact   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Pure Millsian madness in blinding definition. I’ve coveted this track for years. We had the pleasure of hosting Paula at Sustain-Release this past September and it blew us away.The track I’d play to show off my eclectic tastes Vril: Torus CXXVIII   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I love the triple hit in the beat, sort of submerged siren sounds and demon vocals taking it way over the top. One of those tracks that makes me giggle when I play it because it’s so nasty.The track i wish i’d never played Len Faki: BX 3   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I got all excited when I first heard this a few years ago and played it at a semi-attended party in Miami. And, oh my God… no. When the sirens hit, my face flushed with shame. The party was never going to reach a moment when this would be appropriate and I was the bozo playing bangers to an empty room. I can imagine the meme: “Goes to Berghain once.”The best track by my favourite new artist PLO Man: Type Damascus   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The way the parts tumble out really delivers. I love it when tracks feel like you’re inhabiting an almost physical space.The ideal festival track Goldie: Inner City Life   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I organised Sustain-Release with my partner Zara Wladawsky, and our first year was September 2014. I played on Saturday and ended my set with my all-time favourite. The sadness and elation when she sings “living free” sums up all the work, stress and expectation we had going into it, and finally feeling free like anything was possible.The track I’d play at my funeral The Other People Place: Sunrays   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Floating into the sunset.Aurora Halal plays Bloc, Butlins Minehead, Friday to 13 March