Man charged with murdering five cyclists after pickup hit riding group As someone who commutes by bicycle, I know all too well the ways some drivers wield their vehicles as weapons. That’s why I was not surprised when nine cyclists were struck by a truck this week as they were biking together in Kalamazoo, Michigan. Five of them died in the incident. The driver is charged with murder. Sadly, I’m not at all surprised.During my daily commute, I’m routinely flipped off and yelled at for minding my own business in the bike lane, trying to get to work like everyone else. Drivers get angry when they’re at a standstill and I pass them in the bike lane, as though the traffic is my fault. On narrow roads, cars lurk behind me, honking, revving the engine. Last week, I waited at an intersection with a cyclist who had two kids on a bike seat behind her. The kids waved at me, decked out in helmets with spaceships on them. When the light turned we proceeded up one of those narrow streets. I pinched as far right as possible to let a car pass. Given her load, the woman couldn’t move over far enough and the car pulled to within inches of her kids. The woman turned and raised her palm at the guy, shrugging as though to say hey, what do you want from me? urging him to back off. He laid on the horn and began swearing at her, tailing her until the next intersection where she stopped to collect herself. Being behind her on the road probably cost that man an extra 20 seconds. But I bet the woman thought about that driver for the rest of the evening. Maybe she considered whether it was safe to transport her kids that way. I ask myself that all the time – I rarely have less faith in people than I do when I’m on the road. A couple years ago, my boyfriend was biking ahead of me and in front of a car that couldn’t wait to get where it was going. The driver honked and swore and my boyfriend flipped him off as the driver turned away. Then we heard the screech of brakes as the car turned around and took off after my boyfriend, chasing him up a street and eventually getting out of the car, yelling, “what would you do if I had a gun?” I was behind the car, frantically making plans to sneak up behind the driver and hit him with my u-lock if necessary. I remember thinking that this was the night my boyfriend might die, and for what?Two weeks ago I sat on a jury in a case involving a cyclist who had been chased for blocks by the driver of a Jeep – a driver who had attempted a U-turn on a busy street and had nearly hit the cyclist. The cyclist yelled at him and the driver got angry, swerving into the oncoming traffic lane to catch up with the biker. Eyewitnesses called the cops, terrified. The driver cut the biker off at an intersection, got out of the car and approached him, fists raised. When it was clear that backing away wasn’t going to defuse the situation, the cyclist hit the driver with his helmet in self-defense. Cyclists can be awful – I readily admit that. They can speed through red lights, cut off cars and pedestrians, ride without helmets and lights, and act as though no laws apply to them. I understand the irritation. But what I don’t understand is why some drivers don’t seem to realize that bikers are humans too. That they’re vulnerable out there on wheels and a steel frame, that they’re no match for a 4,000-pound vehicle. The driver who gets somewhere a couple minutes later than planned will survive – the cyclist who makes that driver angry may not. I think about this every day as I bike through traffic. I think about what my mom said to me when I was learning to drive: “It’s not you I don’t trust – it’s everyone else on the road.” I think about how nice it would be to not feel that way, to wave and exchange smiles with drivers, to feel that we’re on the same side – on the side of humanity. 