Trust Me, I’m A Vet 8pm, BBC2Care of the dog: this new magazine show hosted by TV vets Steve Leonard and Judy Puddifoot digs deep into health issues affecting the UK’s 60m pooches, moggies and other animal companions. Deficiencies in the mineral content of pet food, useful dental hygiene tips and a new UV light to combat bone disease in reptiles are among the features great and small in the opening instalment, presented from London’s Royal Veterinary College. Graeme VirtueMadeleine McCann: 10 Years On 9pm, BBC1The disappearance of the British three-year-old from Portuguese holiday resort Praia da Luz in 2007 remains an unsolved crime. With little evidence, and with jurisdictional issues hindering the inquiry, the case remains tragically unclear; mystery sightings, even rumours of child slavery, are the nightmares haunting this middle-class town of tapas and tennis coaching. Reporter Richard Bilton, a veteran of the case, looks again at the evidence. John RobinsonSecond Chance Summer: Tuscany 9pm, BBC2It is the penultimate week of the gentle relocation challenge following a group of strangers trying rural Italian life for size. Highlights so far have been the blossoming friendships – and maybe even possible business partnerships – among the gang. This week they’re hosting their first major event in the form of an Italian wedding. Will they be able to meet the expectations of guests hoping for the genuine Tuscan experience? Hannah J DaviesConfessions of a Junior Doctor 9pm, Channel 4The NHS is by some estimates the world’s fifth-biggest employer; TV producers making films about it can’t be far behind. Even so, this is a compelling portrait of the NHS’s overworked and underslept junior doctors. This episode visits the paediatric department of Northampton General, and introduces third-year doctor Fahim, working night shifts in the neo-natal unit: as anyone other than Superman might, he wonders if he’s really up to it. Andrew MuellerBritain’s Nuclear Bomb: The Inside Story 9pm, BBC4Tone is crucial in documentaries like this: however monumental the scientific achievement, the creation of these weapons should probably be regarded as a mixed blessing at best. This film gets it just about right, exploring the geopolitical background and the moral quandaries but finding room for the odd wry anecdote, too – such as the time the plutonium core of Britain’s first nuke was left in a broken-down Vauxhall outside a London boozer. Phil HarrisonDawn of the Nazis 9pm, National GeographicThis one-off special is made up from restored and colourised archival footage, putting viewers eerily on to the streets of Europe in the 1930s. Seeing the nightmare unfold for the German people, now led by a maniac with world domination in his sights, makes this hour play out like a horror film. Nobel-winning intellectuals such as Einstein – not to mention, of course, half of the Jewish population – begin to flee the country in droves. Ben ArnoldMidnight Sun 10pm, Sky AtlanticThe final episode of a series whose gruesome despondency has always been compensated for by its visually luminous sumptuousness. Tonight, it’s a race to save Eddie’s intended victims, including Jenny Ann – who is about to give birth – from various watery graves, with the perpetrator himself in a pod with some of those against whom he has developed such a bitter grudge. Meanwhile, will Alain make good on his promise to help Jessika and Nadji? David StubbsFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Emma Watson(second left) in The Bling Ring. Photograph: Studiocanal/Sportsphoto Ltd/AllstarThe Bling Ring (Sofia Coppola, 2013), 1.55am, Channel 4The strange-but-true story of a bunch of spoilt LA teens who, in 2009, took to burgling the Hollywood mansions of celebrities including Paris Hilton – in whose home some scenes were shot. With Emma Watson as the leader of the bling ringers, it’s a highly sympathetic, pretty unquestioning portrait of youthful celebrity addiction. Paul HowlettLive sportTennis: The Estoril Open Coverage of the third day of the clay-court tournament at the Clube de Ténis do Estoril. 1pm, Eurosport 2.One-Day Cup Cricket: Hampshire v Middlesex Fifty-overs-a-side action from the Ageas Bowl, Southampton. 1.55pm, Sky Sports 2.Champions League Football: Monaco v Juventus The opening leg of the second semi-final at the Stade Louis II. 7pm, BT Sport 2.