A young father, Jonah, looks at his newborn baby. Fingers over 20 years apart in age come together. His wife, Amy, watches him, more than she looks at their child. Has she pleased him with this baby? Why is it that quite soon Jonah will tell his brother he’s sure Amy is going to leave him? There is an uncanny uneasiness in this happy moment. The fraught tone of an unusual film is being offered. Amy is hungry. Jonah says he will search in the night-time hospital for food. As he enquires, he finds a woman he has loved before, Erin. She is at the hospital for her mother who isn’t even 60 yet. Jonah wants to comfort her tears. She wonders what he is doing in the hospital. “My wife,” he begins, but he doesn’t tell her his whole story. She thinks the wife is ill and they are in each other’s arms in consolation. But their feeling is more than that: the new father will become Erin’s lover again. At the close of this film, his younger brother, Conrad (the apparent problem child), will tell their father: “Jonah – he’s not doing so well.” Louder Than Bombs is a picture about talk, among people who feel they can hardly communicate adequately. There is more talk than action, I admit it, and the time scheme is as slippery as memory or computer files. The film has what may be another drawback: it has no characters who are simply admirable, or not. Instead, it picks up on the temperature of most families: that you can neither disown nor trust these people you are related to – like you, they are souls alone reaching out for company. Family is not a natural given, or a simple, sweet grouping; it is the model of a mysterious but implacable unlikeness that we have a chance to transcend.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Mysterious but implacable’ … Isabelle Huppert with Jesse Eisenberg as her elder son, Jonah. Is that what has impeded this movie and its disconcerting grasp of uncomfortable truth? I’m not sure, but Joachim Trier’s film was overlooked at Cannes in 2015, and you hear it written off as a misstep in Trier’s career. What was this Norwegian director thinking of in going to America to make a film in the English language?Gabriel Byrne on romance, privacy and the end of the world  Not that anyone is obliged to accept Louder Than Bombs as merely an American picture. The parents in this story are Gene (Gabriel Byrne) and Isabelle Reed (Isabelle Huppert). Gene was an actor once: his sons find a clip of him, with Shelley Long – I think it’s Hello Again (1987). He gave that up and became a high-school teacher and an at-home parent as Isabelle travelled photographing war, famine and terror. We can judge that work by her grave photos and the rather obtrusive gloom of Huppert herself in the role – she is the film’s least shaded character, torn between her addiction to work and danger and her commitment to being at home with her family.  But she cheats: she yearns to take the pictures her afflicted and destroyed subjects would wish for in places four planes away, world trouble-spots; yet she talks of staying at home, for her family – and then going dead when she’s there. In her mass of unedited photos, Jonah finds a blurred face in a bedroom mirror, a sign that she was having an affair on location with another photographer, Richard (David Strathairn), who is now resolved to write about her. That infidelity hurts Jonah, yet it reminds him of himself. These loved ones are gathered together in inescapable mistrust. So Richard intends to honour Isabelle with an essay for the New York Times. His reasons for that are complex. Richard saw how in the gang of international photographers, time and again Isabelle got the right shot, and the best (or the most beautiful, the colour shot of desolation that could grace the front page of the Times). But as her secret lover, he wants that secret told. When his story appears in print, Jonah will notice: “He seems to know her very well.” Richard wants that in the open, and he warns Gene that he will disclose the fact that the depressed, addicted but withdrawn Isabelle killed herself back in America. She caused her fatal crash on the highway. (It’s not clear if others were hurt, too.) Gene dreads that, because Conrad doesn’t know about the suicide. And Conrad is having a hard time, living with Dad: he is lonely, awkward, brilliant in his imagination, drawn to a girl who is probably not right for him – and then troubled when he realises that Gene is having an affair with his English teacher, Hannah. Why not, Gene feels he is alone in the world – just like Conrad. And the father has been afraid to reveal the truth of the mother’s death to the son. Or to himself?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Afraid to reveal truth’ … Gabriel Byrne as Gene, with Devin Druid as younger son Conrad. Photograph: Allstar/Soda Pictures At under two hours, this is a packed family situation, but perhaps it reminds you of your own. Are there really any simple family networks, or is it more that in our need for other people we draw confusion in on ourselves the way insomniacs grab at the bedding? The more hopes and fears there are in a bed, the more clutching and anxiety. Perhaps Louder Than Bombs asks too much of cross-reference for audiences losing the habit of movie subtlety. So it’s worth adding that Joachim Trier (and his screenwriter Eskil Vogt) previously made Oslo, August 31st (2011), one of the finest films of recent years and another study of addiction and suicide struggling in the same head. That’s a significant credential. But sometimes if reputation looms large then it can weigh a project down.For example, Isabelle Huppert was natural casting in this role. She may be our greatest movie actress, and her authority, her history and her evolved middle-aged beauty bleed life into Isabelle. But she has been encouraged or permitted to be sombre to a point of solemnity. Huppert sometimes gazes into the camera with the despond of a St Cassandra, shouldering the troubles of the world she depicts. That’s fair enough, but sublime photographers can also be tricksters who woo their subjects; and they know it. Isabelle leads a duplicitous life, based on a dishonest bargain. To survive – with her family and in her professional world – she needs more flirtation, adrenaline and doubt. It’s hard to face Huppert’s humourless stare and believe in Isabelle’s instinct for a hundredth of a second. She is close to being a pain in the neck and an emotional tyrant. If she seemed more charismatic yet insecure then her warmth might expand and enrich the movie.This problem is the more pointed because the film’s handling of actors is so special. Strathairn delivers the compromises in Richard in a few shifty glances. Megan Ketch (Amy) and Rachel Brosnahan (Erin) are vivid as characters who have little screen time. Amy Ryan has an inward guilt as Hannah that is never erased in her pleasure with Gene. And Gabriel Byrne applies himself with customary diligence to what is the closest the film gets to a thankless part.But the pulse of the film is the brothers. Jonah is Jesse Eisenberg, an actor who becomes more appealing and interesting as he grows quieter. Jonah is his mother’s child, struggling with dishonesty and terrified of parenthood. When he discovers the imprint of Richard in his mother’s hotel room, Eisenberg’s face is a model for the novelistic depth movie acting can convey in 10 seconds, or less.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The pulse of the film’ … Jesse Eisenberg and Devin Druid as the troubled brothers in Louder Than Bombs, directed by Joachim Trier. Photograph: PR Then there is Devin Druid as Conrad. He is only 18 now and as Conrad he floats between 12 and 16. But he gives one of the best portraits of an intelligent, troubled youth I have ever seen, and his ability helps us know that Conrad the kid is in some ways the most mature member of this Reed family. He is far from a conventional American teen hero: Druid makes Conrad nerdy, insecure, hesitant, abrupt, un-grownup. But it’s intriguing to see young male actors not inclined to compete with superheroes. Druid is as rare and as interesting as another essentially unheroic young American actor – Dane DeHaan (Lawless; The Place Beyond the Pines; Kill Your Darlings). You should see Louder Than Bombs. You may not share my hesitation with Huppert – it’s always easy to be carried away by her. You may decide that the film is a touch too quiet and convoluted for its own good. You are going to be on your own. But I have seen this film a few times and I can’t get its family cluster out of my head – which probably means that it has revealed something I half knew already. Trier has been stronger or clearer before (Reprise and Oslo, August 31st), and he will be better yet, I think. He is a major director, a novelist on film. And consider this: a Norwegian went to America, and understood its disquiet better than most American directors. “Is it difficult for you to talk to me?” a father asks a son. What did we expect?Louder than Bombs is released in the UK on 22 April