The celebrations over the lie-in that comes with the turning back of the clocks this Sunday (at 2am, if you’re up, and in the UK) leave me cold. Blessed with children whose internal clocks obey no commands, even that one puny benefit is denied me. I wonder if gardeners feel the hour change more than most, being among the few that are still outside by choice after work anyway, many of us still making the most of the already waning daylight that is now about to be cruelly cut short by a full, brutal hour. Suddenly even that twilight gardening will be gone, and our tendency is to withdraw from the garden, pulling the curtains closed behind us.But just because plant life is going into hibernation, we don’t have to give up on our little patches. There are other reasons to be out in the garden in winter. I am currently crowdfunding to create a reinvention of the rural almanac, a book that will detail all the movements of the sun and the moon, the tides, and the sky, and tie them in to the seasonal food, celebrations and gardening. It is based upon the idea that there is always something to celebrate outdoors and in, every month, and despite my lost-hour-based sulking there is plenty that is special about the garden in winter after dark.Moon and stars      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Crater good: the best time to look at the moon is when it is half full. Photograph: Patrick Pleul/EPAAs the sun vanishes, the moon and stars appear. In summer it can be 10pm before the sky is dark enough to bother venturing outside to look for constellations, and children can go for months without really experiencing the dark, but now you can have a full evening’s sky watching and still get them into bed before Great Continental Railway Journeys. You can see an awful lot from your garden with a pair of binoculars or a simple birdwatching telescope. The best time to look at the moon through binoculars is not when it is full, but when it is half full, as the light of the sun casts shadows across it, throwing craters into relief. Try around November 8 for the best crater action. No need for even binoculars for the Orionids, which have already peaked but are still visible until November 7 as the earth passes through the trail of debris left by Halley’s comet. Wrap up warm, lie on your back on a blanket and locate Orion, which is where the shooting stars will appear to emerge from, hence the name.FireA dark cold night is an excuse for a bonfire, or just a gathering around a little fire pit, if you’re concerned about ruining your lawn. Toast marshmallows and drink buttered rum toddies: cream110g butter with 150g sugar, a teaspoon of cinnamon, half a teaspoon of nutmeg and a pinch of cloves, then put a spoonful of mixture into each glass, along with a shot of rum. Top with boiling water, stir well, and drink.Wildlife      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Keep an eye out for bats, like this common pipistrelle, in the garden at dusk. Photograph: AlamyNot everything is hibernating, and winter nights can be a wonderful time to spot wildlife in your garden, as long as you have wrapped up warm enough to sit still for a while. Regularly putting out food such as meat, and dog food and cat food can lure in larger mammals such as hedgehogs, foxes, badgers and even roe deer. I have a fox that regularly visits my garden, and the moments when he stands stock still and we lock eyes are electrifying. A small mammal feeding table stocked with peanuts and wild bird food may bring in wood mice, shrews and voles. Look out for bats, particularly at dusk, and although moth numbers have fallen since the end of summer there are still enough to make putting out a moth trap well worth while.Lia Leendertz’s crowdfunding for The New Almanac is under way at https://unbound.com/books/the-new-almanac. Guardian readers can get £5 off of any of the rewards by using the code guardian16.