What’s the name of this show? ContainmentWhen does it premiere? Tuesday 19 April at 9pm ET on the CW The CW, eh. Are there ghosts, vampires, or other monsters? No. How many shirtless guys are in the pilot? Zero. Then what’s the point of watching it? I asked myself the same question several times. If it’s not supernatural, what is this show about? A virus hits downtown Atlanta, so a neighborhood containing about 4,000 exposed people has to be cordoned off. Things quickly go from bad to worse.What are the symptoms? The usual coughing and sneezing, but then it quickly becomes bleeding from the nose and mouth and coughing up blood. Is it gross? Very, and we see a whole lot of it. How do you get it? Bodily fluids like saliva, blood and the rest. Where does the plague come from? Patient Zero is a guy who just arrived from Syria, so bioterrorism is suspected. However, it’s not explored that much.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest If the show isn’t about finding the source of the virus, what is going on? We follow the lives of people both inside and outside the “cordon”, as they call it. (The show is based on a Belgian show called Cordon.) There is Lex (David Gayasi), the head of the police in the section that is contained, but he’s actually outside the walls working with the Chief Lady in Charge of Awful Virus Thingies, Sabine (Claudia Black). His girlfriend Jana (Christian Moses) is stuck inside, as is his best friend and fellow officer Jake (Chris Wood). There’s also fifth-grade teacher Katie (Kristen Gutoskie) and a pregnant teenage girl, Teresa (Hanna Mangan-Lawrence). What do any of them do? That’s the oddest thing about Containment. It’s a show about an extremely urgent situation, but nothing really seems to happen. Katie is taking care of her kids, Jake is fretting about being stuck inside, Lex is trying to protect everyone and banging on tables saying things such as “Screw protocol!” but not really doing any screwing, of protocol or anything else. Jana works at a data retrieval firm that has sterile rooms because apparently that’s a thing. She’s just trying not to die and texting emojis to her boyfriend. Teresa talks to her other half on FaceTime because he’s trapped outside of the walls. There seems to be absolutely no point having her on the show. It’s pretty boring for a show with life-or-death stakes. Is it good? No, precisely for that reason. It’s essentially Under the Dome with the sniffles, where there is a group of people cut off from the outside world and they’re trying to figure out their new lives in a world with no law and order, not enough food and supplies, where people could die at any minute from a bio-engineered form of the super-flu. However everyone in the cordon is acting like it’s just a really bad Sunday where their brunch plans got interrupted and they’re not sure what to do instead. On Under the Dome the people inside were trying to figure out where the dome came from and how to get rid of it. Everyone in the cordon seems rather complacent about being trapped in this deadly petri dish. The government doesn’t seem to be investigating the Syrian connection. No one is racing for a cure, although they throw up a ton of shipping containers to serve as barriers faster than most people can bake a batch of oatmeal raisin cookies. This show, created for the US audience by The Vampire Diaries alumnus Julie Plec, seems to have its priorities all out of whack. There are compelling and frightening aspects of this scenario, but no one seems to be really cashing in on them. Does it have any redeeming features? The diversity of the cast should be commended. There are hardly any white men in the entire show and all of the positions of power are held either by women or people of color. It’s the sort of colorblind casting and writing of female characters as leaders that more shows should follow. Sadly, that revolution is wasted here on a show that is as staid and formulaic as anything else on the tube.Should I watch this show? No. Like a bad case of food poisoning, it should be over soon and you won’t even remember that it happened. 