The exam regulator, Ofqual, says too many schools have been asking for re-marks, so it has issued new guidance to exam boards on how to handle such requests. So what does this mean for schools, pupils and parents?How are re-marks changing?The guidance states that a board must only change a student’s final grade if the original examiner has “made an administrative error” or “failed to apply the mark scheme properly”. In other words, the grade will only change if there is a clear marking error rather than a difference of interpretation.“There is a common perception that there is always a single ‘right mark’ or a ‘wrong mark’ for some more extended answers,” Julie Swan, executive director for general qualifications said in May. “This is a misunderstanding. If the examiner who is re-marking the script does not agree with the exact mark given, but can see that it still represents a fair interpretation of the mark scheme, it should stand.”I want my child’s paper to be re-marked. Do I need to apply via their school?Yes. This year Ofqual said that exam boards could, if they wished, accept re-mark requests directly from students. However, exam boards have said they have no plans to do so yet, arguing that teachers should be involved in the decision. This means you will still need to request a re-mark via the school or exam centre. Some schools do allow parents to pay for a re-mark. Fees vary, but AQA, the largest of England’s exam boards, charges from £7.55 per unit for a clerical check at GCSE to £47.10 per component for a priority review at A-level. Generally fees aren’t payable if a review of marking results in a grade change, but keep in mind that marks can go down as well as up.I’m starting university this autumn. How long will I need to wait for a re-mark?A-level candidates who have a university place that depends on their result should ask their school to request a priority re-mark. These take up to 18 calendar days, compared with up to 30 days for a normal re-mark. Requests need to received by 26 August. Why are they cracking down on re-marks?Because the number of requests has gone up so much. In 2014 there were 48% more than the previous year, and individual inquiries about grades increased by a further 22% last year to more than half a million across GCSE, AS and A2. About 18% of these requests resulted in a change of grade. Ofqual is concerned that schools – which are under huge amounts of pressure to meet exam targets – have been requesting re-marks for any students who are close to a higher grade boundary. If a student is on a really high D grade – only a mark or two from a C – they will pay for their paper to be re-marked regardless of whether or not they think the D is the correct grade for that student. They have little to lose: the mark is unlikely to go down so much that it puts the student on an E, and they could get a slightly more generous marker who moves it up to a C. This is particularly the case in subjects with longer written answers such as English and the humanities.Ofqual says this puts unnecessary pressure on the system and undermines the marking process. In addition, some independent schools can afford to spend more on re-mark requests than state schools, and that isn’t fair. The clincher seems to be a study led by Amanda Spielman, the incoming Ofsted chief inspector, which found that examiners tend to more lenient when re-marking scripts after results day.Is it still worth getting a re-mark?If you genuinely believe that a paper has been marked incorrectly then yes, it probably is. But if a grade is on the cusp of the one above and you are wondering if it’s worth having a re-mark, it seems less likely this will yield results under the new rules.Why do teachers object to the changes?Many school leaders argue that marking is poor quality and say that the clampdown on re-marks will do nothing to remedy this problem. Philip Britton, head of Bolton School Boys’ Division, an independent school, said in a statement: “The quality of marking in exams is a huge issue for schools nationally.” He added that under the new system, “it will be more difficult to get marks changed when they are wrong and it does not deal with the problem that so many candidates need to appeal to get the mark they should have got in the first place”.Russell Hobby, general secretary of the National Association of Head Teachers, says that pupils’ hard work demands a system that gets the marks right first time. “The way to restore confidence in exam marking is to increase transparency and rigour – not to make the appeals harder,” he said. Follow us on Twitter via @GuardianTeach. Join the Guardian Teacher Network for lesson resources, comment and job opportunities, direct to your inbox.