The event that has helped shape my career in landscape design is fast approaching, yet I am blissfully relaxed about it. I have exhibited at Chelsea five times since leaving the military, most recently last year. My army friends call it gardening leave, which never fails to amuse them, but this year I really am taking a break.Reflecting on my lack of involvement this year emphasises the drama and adrenalin of exhibiting: when you are immersed in the micro detail and maelstrom of designing a garden at Chelsea, it contaminates your conscience, your sleep and your very soul to such an extent that you become immune to life beyond the Royal Hospital. So writing about it rather than building it, and observing the gardens rather than designing them, is wonderfully liberating.It may be a statement of the obvious but, for me, a Chelsea garden has to be a garden. I have to be able to see myself, or others in it, enjoying it. It should be easy to imagine the architecture of the home to which it belongs. If it is a garden of gimmicks, or it looks contrived, then the association with reality becomes more remote. Consequently, the best designs are those where you can picture yourself and your friends using the space and relaxing in it. You can almost hear someone shouting at the dog as it runs through the immaculate beds snapping stem after stem.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ulf Nordfjell’s 2007 show garden at RHS Chelsea, A Tribute to Linnaeus, won a gold medal but lost out on best in show to Sarah Eberle’s garden. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoBut then there is the other side to Chelsea – the joy of a designer having a completely blank canvas. It provides a chance to entertain ideas and concepts that would not ordinarily be considered. It is an exhibition after all, and so boundaries must be pushed. Take, for example, Sarah Eberle’s 600 Days with Bradstone show garden in 2007, an investigation into the psychological effects of long term stay in space. It was hugely ambitious in its concept and execution and as a consequence, seriously gutsy. The judging panel were spellbound and the ultimate award of best in show went to her. The judges were brave, and for that they should be applauded, but at the same time one feels for the charming and talented Ulf Nordfjell, also exhibiting that year with an exquisite and more conventional design, who may have felt displeased not to receive the top accolade.In today’s Chelsea flower show there is now so much pressure on the designer to return to the sponsor with a gold medal in hand that there is a danger of designs becoming risk-averse. Being hugely competitive, I wonder if my desire to win gold affected my design last year? Perhaps it did. But as long as I believe that a garden that my team and I have built, with great care and affection, works as a functional garden, I can probably live with that.My criteria for Chelsea success will not be for everyone. The show is branded as the finest in the world, and I genuinely believe it is, but it must continue to stretch design and embrace new materials, planting styles and trends. Almost all designers target gold, despite what they may say – and so too do their sponsors. But the show also thrives on an element of recklessness and therein lies the problem for the RHS. I think it fair to say that since Eberle’s garden in 2007, designers are less willing to gamble, and aside from a few high-profile PR stunts, the show gardens are becoming more muted. The percentage call is to play safe.When the garden is built and open to the public, I often stand outside the ropes with the sole intention of listening to the comments and feedback from unwitting bystanders. I’ve heard remarks ranging from ego-enhancing praise, to a woman (let’s call her Janet) saying that I must have been on acid when I designed it. I collected Janet and her friends and escorted them around the garden while they made apology after apology. I carefully explained the brief and the concept as I showed them around. Once their initial trepidation and intimidation subsided, (it can be offputting to be looked at by so many whilst walking around a garden), they seemed to enjoy the process. And this is the weird factor about the show – you can stand alongside a garden you adore, or in stark contrast loathe, yet as soon as you have had a chance to hear the brief and witness the garden from within, your views start to change – often beyond expectation. It is possible for a garden you detest to be unlocked and made clear. You can even find yourself becoming a passionate advocate for its design. Hence the judges’ positive reflection on Sarah Eberle’s garden – much to the bewilderment of the public.So, what will I be looking for on Tuesday? First and foremost, I hope to see stunning plants at the peak of their beauty. Chelsea never fails to deliver in this department. Next, planting combinations that inspire and stimulate thought for development in the real world. And finally, crisp and imaginative design. With luck, we will see something that has not been delivered before, despite the fact that the event returns in the same month, using the same-sized plots, year after year. The ultimate treat would be to see some gardens which display some recklessness and flair. So no small feat.• Marcus Barnett is a landscape and garden designer who has won three gold medals at RHS Chelsea. Follow all the Guardian’s Chelsea coverage here.