Alexandra Kleeman wants you to really think about your body and its every internal movement. “A massed wetness pressing in on itself, shapes thrust against each other with no sense of where they are,” she writes in the first pages of her debut novel, You Too Can Have a Body Like Mine. Are we all the same inside? Anything could be in there – and so it’s no surprise, she writes, that we care most for our surfaces: “They alone distinguish us from one another and are so fragile, the thickness of paper.” Such is just the beginning of an unsettling and vivid descent into everything we consume: from junk food, to makeup, to advertising. You Too Can Have a Body Like Mine follows a female protagonist, named simply A, and her increasing disconnect from herself and the nondescript American suburb around her. The reader follows her through empty malls, launderettes, deeply disturbing supermarket trips and – many times over – around the flat in which she watches TV commercials with her boyfriend, C, and conducts a needy relationship with her friend, B. Until the cult-like behaviour of her neighbours begins to attract her attention.Kleeman’s novel could be read as a critique of modern consumerism. It is anachronistic – there appears to be no internet in this apparently contemporary world, but everything is dominated by television – and absurd, too. A hilarious subplot sees middle-class men vanish abruptly from their homes, seized on and labelled “Disappearing Dad Disorder” by news anchors, only for them to reappear with amnesia later on. Literary Hub deemed the book part of a “new modernism” when it came out in the US in 2015, while the LA Review of Books lavished praise: “Kleeman’s dark manifestations of the worst consequences of brand loyalty and consumer habits have a more substantive interiority to them, a sense of gender and fear and emotion so often missing from the more detached and more overtly political works of canonical consumer critique.” Vogue called it “Fight Club for girls”.Sitting in a Hungarian cafe next to Columbia University, where Kleeman teaches creative writing, the ear-piercing sirens of New York fire trucks interrupt our conversation every five minutes. “This is like a place that everyone drives through on the way to wherever the disaster is,” she says matter-of-factly as we we sip coffee and eat the sort of cookies she loved as a kid in New Jersey.Her novel couldn’t be set in a more different place to where we are: You Too Can Have a Body Like Mine plays out in an unnervingly quiet, unnamed suburb. “In the suburbs, like where I grew up, there is this daily sense of your smallness, and your possible sameness. And the sameness is part of that American ideal – if suburbia was our dream of the perfect place for people to live in, it contradicts our idea of how one should be an individual.”But Kleeman’s book is not another novel about the suburbs. Instead, she says, it is about “just what it is inside ourselves that makes us lonely and to want another world, what that desire to escape into another world is; what our relationship is to these things that are part of our everyday life, that modulate our moods in ways that we don’t pay enough attention to.” So she masterfully and anatomises A’s needs and fears and her deep sense of alienation from those around her, all of whom seem to navigate the world in total apathy. One of the book’s most surprising elements is Kleeman’s ability to dissect everyday acts such as eating or the numbness of watching TV.“I guess what I wanted to do was create a model of the world that made visible some aspects that we encounter every day but have a catalyst to – like the act of eating an orange, for example. That’s something that we do not view as any type of ethical issue, right? But I think that zooming in on that, and thinking about what it is to consume part of another organism, or something that has the potential to be an organism itself, changes how tender or how vulnerable you feel that the world around you is.”She once conducted a study – of sorts – where she subjected herself to countless TV ads and monitored her reactions. “I turned the volume on for the commercials and I just watched them and let them affect me.” What was the result? “I think that they did make me more of a consumer … Somehow watching those ads did leave me with that idea that you could be extremely shiny and extremely bright.”Kleeman was born near Boulder, Colorado, the daughter of a Japanese literature teacher and a religious studies professor. “In Colorado, the land is beautiful and the sky is huge, and it makes you feel small … when I see people building these sprawling developments in that space I feel like it is an obvious psychological attempt to make themselves feel bigger in relation to what’s around them, to this huge country.” Colorado is home to multiple megachurches: gigantic houses of prayer that can accommodate thousands, along with banks, bookshops and even Starbucks. A uniquely American phenomenon, and one Kleeman finds “frightening and also majestic. Here is someone’s vision of a single building that can satisfy every need, from your basic physical needs to your most refined spiritual needs. And it’s true, it is pretty much every need. But it’s weird to feel someone else’s idea of yourself projected onto the space around you.” You Too Can Have a Body Like Mine plays on the comfort of the familiar, the unspoken rules we follow. “I really love writers who find strange, almost subconscious roads to my empathy machine,” she says, citing Samuel Beckett, Robert Coover and particularly Kōbō Abewho often left his characters unnamed: “Names have always been a funny thing for me. One of my earliest memories was my mother telling me: ‘Your father wouldn’t let me name you Sarah.’ So my name always had this temporary quality … Kobo Abe was the one who showed me that, yes, it’s possible to [take away characters’ names]. There’s nothing you have to do when you construct your characters, it’s a totally open field.”In the novel there is a cat cartoon called Kandy Kat, who pops up in TV commercials again and again. “I still see Kandy Kat, as I created him, as this creature that experiences pathos in a much deeper way than any of my people-people,” she says. The obvious comparison is Looney Tunes’s Wile E Coyote: “He’s essentially … unable to catch [the Road Runner]; he is completely made to fail, or the world has made him fail … it’s our own modern-day version of purgatory, or of Beckett’s existentially stripped-down damnedness.”This means raw: extreme dieting and the battle among fruitarians | Alexandra Kleeman There is a scene in the opening of the book where A peels an orange while staring at herself in the mirror. Does she continuously analyse her every internal process – and does she think she is she particularly attuned to doing so? “On a daily basis I encounter things that make me feel like being in the world is a very strange thing,” she says. “I feel like eating is this form of casual destruction that we participate in. We rarely think about what it means to destroy another thing and also to make it part of ourselves; it is like a strange openness that our bodies have to the world.” Despite this acute awareness of daily routines, Kleeman accepts daily existence, like the rest of us. “Sometimes you have to just go and put a scoop of tuna salad on bread and eat it, and get on with your life.”You Too Can Have a Body Like Mine is published by Fourth Estate, priced £12.99. It is available from the Guardian bookshop for £10.65.