In 2014, at the launch of the 20th London international festival of theatre (Lift), the festival’s director Mark Ball told me that the programme reflected his feeling that theatre was “a map of the world”. That’s true too of the 21st Lift lineup, which was launched this evening and includes a thrillingly eclectic range of work from 14 countries including a rare UK performance by the incomparable US drag artist Taylor Mac, who will be taking a subversive stroll through the great American songbook at Hackney Empire.There’s plenty to tempt including Lies Pauwels’s The Hamilton Complex at the Unicorn, which takes you inside the chaotic mind of 13 13-year-old girls, caught between childhood and the adult world, and Krzysztof Warlikowski’s Phaedra(s), in which Isabelle Huppert meets Greek tragedy via Sarah Kane at the Barbican.In Andrew Schneider’s Youarenowhere at Shoreditch Town Hall, a man from the future will appear with urgent news. Inne Goris and Dominique Pauwels use sound, music and movement to stage Alessandro Baricco’s novel Without Blood at The Place. The Australian Antony Hamilton shows what happens when humans meet robots in Meeting at Battersea Arts Centre.Over its long history Lift has been undeniably influential in opening the eyes of British theatre-makers to a very different kind of way to make and present theatre. I recall a long-ago conversation with a European director who said: “Of course, you British make drama; in Europe we make theatre.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Incomparable … drag artist Taylor Mac. Photograph: Al Pereira/WireImageThat may have been true then, but is much less the case now as the range of work produced by UK writers, directors, designers and theatre-makers has changed substantially. Lift has had a lot to do with that, and this year’s programme reflects that shift, with pieces including Clare Patey’s Empathy Museum, which allows you to literally walk a mile in someone else’s shoes while listening to their story through headphones. From Argentina comes Everything By My Side, which will take place beside the Thames and allow you to slip into a stranger’s bed and hear a tale from childhood. On the Move at the Royal Court will take you into backstage spaces for 10 intimate glimpses, from writers from the UK and Middle East, into the lives of some of the 50 million people forced to leave their homes across the world since the second world war. Greece’s Blitz Group will be turning The Pit into a ballroom for Late Night, where six performers dance a waltz as Europe crumbles around them.Mark Ball is increasingly presenting work that may have been made thousands of miles away but which holds a mirror up to the UK, and particularly to multicultural London. It’s work that fulfils the idea that it the most deeply local can also be the most universal.Australian circus company Circa are presenting Depart which will take place in Tower Hamlets cemetery park, offering up unexpected encounters down the shadowy pathways and by Victorian tombs, many belonging to migrants to London. In confronting the past it will stimulate us to consider the present.“A lot of the artists we are bringing this year are asking questions around how we should live, what is sustainable and what is just and unjust,” says Ball, who points to Constanza Macras’s Open for Everything at the Royal Court, which takes a journey through European Roma culture and communities, demonised in the media, to examine how survival is rooted in mutual co-operation and support. Or what might we learn from Toco Nikaido’s Miss Revolutionary Idol Beserker, at the Barbican, a riot of Japanese youth culture that will explode across the Pit stage in candy-coloured freneticism.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A riot of Japanese youth culture … Toco Nikaido’s Miss Revolutionary Idol Beserker at the Barbican. Photograph: Cyclone_A“Young people in Japan are living in an ossified society where capitalism is in deep crisis. So why are so many looking for cultural escapism rather than trying to start a revolution?” says Ball, “and what parallels are there with our own youth culture and the way it is so atomised?”Shows such as Lola Arias’s Minefield at the Royal Court, which brings together soldiers from Argentina and the UK who fought on opposing sides in the Falklands conflict in 1982, have an obvious connection across cultures. What about Neil Bartlett’s Stella at Hoxton Hall, a meditation on the true story of Ernest Boulton, one half of the Victorian cross-dressing duo Fanny and Stella? “Lift isn’t just about putting on theatre, it’s about creating a place and space to reflect, and transgender issues are very much in the news at the moment,” says Ball. “Stella allows us to consider ourselves and our attitudes, what has changed and what hasn’t.” Which is pretty much what Lift is about and why the biannual festival remains as relevant as ever.London international festival of theatre runs from 2 June to 2 July.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Unexpected encounters … Depart by Circa in Tower Hamlets cemetery park. Photograph: John Angerson