Earlier this month, Axel Scheffler warned us that the Gruffalo couldn’t have existed without the EU. Last week, we heard from authors including Kerry Hudson and Geoff Dyer about what leaving Europe might mean for the arts. “You’ll have this enormous drain on creative talent,” said Hudson.Being European: what does it mean? Now, independent publisher Dedalus Books is making its own small case for remaining in the EU, with its “Reading Europe” promotion, a selection of novels from EU countries intended to “let the reader know the literature, history and culture of each country better”. They are all from UK independent publishers, and all translated into English.There are names I know – Stefan Zweig from Austria, with Beware of Pity. Eça de Queirós from Portugal, with The Crime of Father Amaro. Diego Marani from Finland, with New Finnish Grammar. But there are also lots of names I don’t: Farewell, Cowboy by Olja Savičević, translated from Croatian by Celia Hawkesworth, about a character going back to her hometown on the Adriatic coast to unravel the mystery of her brother’s death. Apothecary Melchior and the Mystery of St Olaf’s Church by Indrek Hargla, translated from the Estonian by Adam Cullen and set in 15th-century Tallinn, “the last foothold before the east”.Dedalus publisher Eric Lane has worked to put the list together, asking publishers to suggest suitable titles with the main criterion that “they tell you something new or informative about a country”.“It was nice to discover books I’d never heard of,” says Lane. “I wanted the list to make a cultural case for Europe, without getting involved in what’s happening at the moment. It’s an opportunity to learn something about our neighbours, before we lose them.”There are 49 titles in total, from a fantastic list of publishers: And Other Stories, Arcadia, Atlas, Bitter Lemon, Comma, Dedalus, Faber & Faber, Garnett Press, Istros, Jantar, Marion Boyars, Norvik Press, Parthian, Peter Owen, Portobello and Pushkin.And the list itself is like a chocolate box of treasures waiting to be discovered. I’m particularly keen to check out Hungarian Miklós Bánffy’s Transylvanian Trilogy; Lane says Bánffy “is an author who should have the stature of Tolstoy”.Eagle-eyed Europhiles might spot that Cyprus, Malta and Ireland are missing from the list. The omission, says Lane, is “Because they are in the Commonwealth so we will remain linked to them whether or not we are in the EU, and Ireland is excluded because it’s geographically in the British Isles and our links to them will remain whatever happens.”He is planning a virtual literary festival to celebrate the writers, and is in talks with bookshops about running promotions over the months in the run up to the referendum. I hope it pans out, and in the meantime, perhaps we can help him out with something. Despite their best efforts, the publishers have not managed to find any book from Luxembourg translated into English – they’ve compensated by giving Belgium two extra titles. I was born in Luxembourg, but shamefully, I don’t think I’ve read anything by a Luxembourg writer. Any suggestions?The listAustria1. Beware of Pity by Stefan Zweig, translated by Anthea Bell (Pushkin) 2. Fräulein Else by Arthur Schnitzler, translated by FH Lyon (Pushkin)Belgium (From Flemish) 3. Christ’s Entry into Brussels by Dimitri Verhulst, translated by David Colmer (Portobello)4. Marcel by Erwin Mortier, translated by Ina Rilke (Pushkin) (From French) 5. Malpertuis by Jean Ray, translated by Iain White (Atlas) 6. Bruges-la-Morte by Georges Rodenbach, translated by Mike Mitchell (Dedalus) Bulgaria7. The Black Box by Alek Popov, translated by Daniella and Charles Edward Gill de Mayol de Lupe (Peter Owen) 8. Mission London by Alek Popov, translated by Daniella and Charles Edward Gill de Mayol de Lupe (Istros).Croatia9. Farewell, Cowboy by Olja Savičević, translated by Celia Hawkesworth (Istros)10. Our Man in Iraq by Robert Perišić, translated by Will Firth (Istros)Czech Republic 11. A Kingdom of Souls by Daniela Hodrová, translated by Elena Sokol and Véronique Firkusny (Jantar Publishers)12. Three Faces of an Angel by Jiří Pehe, translated by Gerald Turner (Jantar)Denmark 13. The God of Chance by Kirsten Thorup, translated by Janet Garton (Norvik Press) 14. Terminal Innocence by Klaus Rifbjerg, translated by Paul Larkin (Norvik Press) Estonia15. Apothecary Melchior and the Mystery of St Olaf’s Church by Indrek Hargla, translated by Adam Cullen (Peter Owen)16. The Same River by Jaan Kaplinski, translated by Susan Wilson (Peter Owen) Finland 17. New Finnish Grammar by Diego Marani, translated by Judith Landry (Dedalus)18. The Year of the Hare by Arto Paasilinna, translated by Herbert Lomas (Peter Owen)France 19. The Book of Nights by Sylvie Germain, translated by Christine Donougher (Dedalus) 20. Rough Trade by Dominique Manotti, translated by Margaret Crossland and Elfreda Powell (Arcadia)Germany 21. All the Lights by Clemens Meyer, translated by Katy Derbyshire (And Other Stories) 22. Simplicissimus by Johann Grimmelshausen, translated by Mike Mitchell (Dedalus) Greece 23. The History of a Vendetta by Yoryis Yatromanolakis, translated by Helen Cvanagh (Dedalus)24. Freedom or Death by Nikos Kazantzakis, translated by Jonathan Griffin (Faber)Hungary 25-27. The Transylvanian Trilogy by Miklós Bánffy, translated by Patrick Thursfield and Katalina Bánffy-Jelen (Arcadia); They Were Counted, They Were Found Wanting, They Were Divided28. Legacy by Iván Sándor, translated by Tim Wilkinson (Peter Owen) Italy 29. I Malavoglia (The House by the Medlar Tree) by Giovanni Verga, translated by Judith Landry (Dedalus)30. The Mussolini Canal by Antonio Pennacchi, translated by Judith Landry (Dedalus) Latvia31. Flesh-Coloured Dominoes by Zigmunds Skujiņš, translated by Kaija Straumanis (Arcadia)32. The Beauty of History by Viivi Luik, translated by Hildi Hawkins (Norvik Press)  Lithuania 33. The Dedalus Book of Lithuanian Literature edited by Almantas Samalavičius, translated by Jura Avizienis, Ada Mykole Valaitis and Jayde Will (Dedalus)Netherlands34. Eline Vere by Louis Couperus, translated by Ina Rilke (Pushkin)  35. The Twins by Tessa de Loo, translated by Ruth Levitt(Arcadia)  Poland 36. Entanglement by Zygmunt Miłoszewski, translated by Antonia Lloyd-Jones (Bitter Lemon)37. Cold Sea Stories by Paweł Huelle, translated by Antonia Lloyd-Jones (Comma)Portugal 38. The Crime of Father Amaro by Eça de Queirós, translated by Margaret Jull Costa (Dedalus)39. Now and at the Hour of our Death by Susana Moreira Marques, translated by Julia Sanches (And Other Stories)Romania40. Life Begins on Friday by Ioana Pârvulescu, translated by Alistair Ian Blyth (Istros)41. Diary of a Short-Sighted Adolescent by Mircea Eliade, translated by Christopher Moncrieff (Istros) Slovakia42. The House of the Deaf Man by Peter Krištúfek, translated by Julia and Peter Sherwood, (Parthian) 43. Rivers of Babylon by Peter Pišťanek, translated by Peter Petro (Garnett Press)Slovenia 44. Yugoslavia, My Fatherland by Goran Vojnović, translated by Noam Charney (Istros)45. My Father’s Dreams: A Tale of Innocence Abused, written and translated by Evald Flisar (Istros)Spain 46. The River by Rafael Sánchez Ferlosio, translated by Margarel Jull Costa (Dedalus)47. See How Much I Love You by Luis Leante, translated by Martin Schifino (Marion Boyars) Sweden   48. Clinch by Martin Holmén, translated by Henning Koch (Pushkin Vertigo)49. The Serious Game by Hjalmar Söderberg, translated by Eva Claeson (Marion Boyars)To buy any of these books from the Guardian bookshop at a reduced price, click here. 