Racist Britain: Dispatches8pm, Channel 4One particularly toxic side-effect of the EU referendum result has been a rise in racist attacks, the bigoted choosing to see the result as a political endorsement of their own prejudice. Of course, racism didn’t begin in this country on 23 June, but here Seyi Rhodes investigates verbal and physical attacks on Muslims in Britain, with phone footage providing the undeniable evidence that this is not simply something that happens somewhere else. John RobinsonTrainspotting Live8pm, BBC4In the slipstream of the revived Flying Scotsman comes Peter Snow, enthusing on the fly from Didcot Heritage Railway Centre. Surrounded by enthusiasts, Snow burrows down into the reasons for locomotives’ appeal, while monitoring the progress of Ian McMillan, who will write a new poem there and then. Reports are scheduled from Hannah Fry on the maths behind steam engines and Dick Strawbridge on freight trains. Continues tomorrow and Wednesday. Jack SealeExodus: Our Journey to Europe9pm, BBC2It is the most basic of journalistic techniques: tell a big story by telling a multitude of small ones. One reason that discussion of the refugee influx into Europe has become so debased is that the scale of the crisis is so daunting. Exodus depicts the reality up close, introducing individuals from the trudging columns – often via cameraphone footage they have been invited to shoot themselves. Necessary viewing, which continues tomorrow and Wednesday. Andrew MuellerOJ: Made in America9pm, BT Sport 1Another binge-worthy, long-form true-crime documentary series but, in contrast to Making a Murderer, we know where this one’s going from the start. Still, the wider resonances of the OJ Simpson case – encompassing race, celebrity and the flawed US legal system – mean that it’s still a touchstone tale of our times. Ezra Edelman’s forensic and even-handed epic – which continues all week – might just be the definitive telling of this extraordinary and tragic story. Phil HarrisonThe Question Jury4pm, Channel 4This new daily gameshow isolates seven strangers in a retro-styled jury room for a week. Their task? Fattening up a prize pot by collectively answering trivia questions via a Bakelite intercom. At day’s end, one juror gets a chance to win the cash, with their replacement reporting for duty the next morning. The tone of deliberations is more pub quiz than 12 Angry Men but witnessing the squad clash, bond and fume is surprisingly compelling. Graeme VirtueHorrible Histories: Staggering Storytellers Special5pm, CBBCFor Auntie’s #LovetoRead campaign, HH returns with a one-off special telling tales stretching back to the stone age when “CGI; cave-generated imagery” was all the rage. The jokes don’t get any less silly (and why would they?) as we’re treated to DH Lawrence naked, up a tree; George Eliot being manly; and a visit to William Caxton’s bookshop circa 1475: “Do you have any biographies? Thrillers? Teen vampire fiction?” Jonathan WrightThe Hairy Builder6.30pm, BBC2Mugging it up shamelessly for the cameras, Dave Myers of Hairy Bikers fame goes on site with construction firm William Anelay. Founded in 1747, the company specialises in restoration and conservation work, and the first project Myers visits is the Grade I-listed Mansion House in Doncaster, being spruced up at a cost of £300,000. It was, we learn, William Anelay’s first commission, built at a time when well-to-do travellers often stopped off at the town. Jonathan WrightFilm choiceDrag Me To Hell (Sam Raimi, 2009), 11.10pm, 5StarRaimi returns to his Evil Dead roots with this splendidly gory tale about a young LA banker (Alison Lohman) who is cursed by an old Gypsy woman (a rare, clunky bit of stereotyping in the movie) when she refuses a mortgage extension. Pursued frantically by a demon, showered in pestilential blood, vomit and bugs, she has three days before she is dragged to you-know-where. It’s deliriously gruesome fun. Paul HowlettCyrus (Jay Duplass, Mark Duplass, 2010), 2.05am, Film4There’s a pretty straightforward plot here, with John C Reilly as a lonely divorcee falling for sweet, warmhearted single mum Marisa Tomei. But her twentysomething son, Cyrus (Jonah Hill), who at first seems welcoming towards John, starts playing obnoxious tricks. What starts as a regular romcom is subverted into a study in social discomfort. Paul HowlettToday’s sportTennis: German Open Time waits for no man and neither does the ATP tour, which moves straight on from SW19 to Hamburg and the challenge shifts from grass to clay courts.  12 noon, Sky Sports 3Speedway: Coventry Bees v Kings Lynn Stars An Elite League contest from the Brandon Stadium.  7.30pm, Sky Sports 2Baseball: MLB All StarsFrom San Diego, a softball match between ex-players and celebs. 4am, ESPN