Kanye West’s art world aspirations are not new but his execution of them – as evidenced by the new video to his song Famous – are becoming more sophisticated.Based on a 2008 work by American realist painter Vincent Desiderio, the video features the rapper and wife Kim Kardashian lying naked on an extremely wide bed in a sweaty, post-coital sleep. They are in the middle of 10 more nude celebrities – Taylor Swift (who is dissed in the lyrics), Rihanna, Chris Brown, Ray J, West’s former girlfriend Amber Rose, his in-law Caitlyn Jenner, Donald Trump, Bill Cosby, George W Bush and Anna Wintour. Some, or perhaps all, are waxworks – the camera passes across their bodies, the quality of the film grainy, the soundtrack culminating in two minutes of cheering and heavy breathing.RAY MUÑOZ (@raymunoz94)Kanye took Vincent Desiderio's "Sleep" & brought it to life with a modern twist.. if that isn't genius idk what is. pic.twitter.com/bSDddfQFNoJune 25, 2016Whether Famous makes West an artist is as contentious as whether making a line of clothes means he should be regarded as a fashion designer. West has claimed that as well as Desiderio, the video was inspired by Matthew Barney – “my Jesus”. Barney is renowned for his sprawling, mythology-packed films, which also often make use of famous people – though those are willing participants, unlike the ones in depicted in Famous. Two years ago, West attended the New York premiere of Barney’s six-hour River of Fundament, a work inspired by Norman Mailer’s Ancient Evenings, and which includes several controversial set pieces, including the insertion of an eye into the anus of a pregnant woman. Famous does not include anything so transgressive, but its depiction of women like Swift naked, presumably without their consent (West defied them to sue, in a now-deleted tweet), has caused disquiet, though West claims that he took any overtly sexual shots out of the video. Lena Dunham condemns Kanye West's new music video Famous as 'sickening' Unconvinced, Lena Dunham said the video brought to mind Stanford University rapist Brock Turner, writing: “Now I have to see the prone, unconscious, waxy bodies of famous women, twisted like they’ve been drugged and chucked aside at a rager? ... Seeing a woman I love like Taylor Swift (f--- that one hurt to look at, I couldn’t look), a woman I admire like Rihanna or Anna, reduced to a pair of waxy breasts made by some special effects guy in the Valley, it makes me feel sad and unsafe and worried.”A curator with a New York gallery, who contacted the Guardian and was reluctant to be named, agrees with Dunham. “Kanye is using the body of Taylor Swift without asking her and putting her in this submissive position. Sure, he’s making a comment on television culture and appropriation, and he’s calling it art, but I don’t know if you can call something art just because it stirs up controversy.”Whether or not it works as art, Famous has reinforced West’s reputation as a skillful appropriator with a flare for controversy. “It’s a comment on fame,” he told Vanity Fair. He also claimed his life is “walking performance art”.Desiderio, the artist who inspired the video, gave the video his seal of approval. He told W magazine after being invited to see the video at its premiere in Los Angeles, that what Famous “demonstrated was the power of the artistic imagination to transcend categorical expectations”.While that clears the threshold of certain kind of artistic criticism, Desiderio went further, offering that the video demonstrates “the fluidity of the transfer of codes deeply embedded within the apparatus of our preferred mediums”.Meanwhile, cultural commentator Bob Lefsetz wrote over the weekend that Famous, “cut from the same cloth as Madonna’s Sex book”, just proves that video is bigger than ever. “That’s the appeal, it’ll bring so many looky-loos, but in this case you don’t have to buy it to see it, that’s so last century, it’s free for the taking on the internet. Because in today’s world you don’t charge for everything, you garner your audience and monetize later, like the tech companies.”But does that make it art? “This is a stunt. We won’t be talking about it next month, if we’re even discussing it next week. But that’s OK, Kanye will come up with something else.” As for content, Lefsetz adds, “when you marry boobies and fame you’ve hit the jackpot. All but the asexual want to see this clip at least once”.The last time a pop star of similar standing, Jay Z, aspired to create a performance art piece it ended in acrimony. In 2013, the rapper performed at New York City’s Pace gallery with artist Marina Abramović, playing his song Picasso Baby for six continuous hours. Years later, Abramović claimed the rapper didn’t live up to promises that were made in exchange for her involvement and said participants were “totally used”, and “came out with nothing”. She also described it as a one-way transaction. The Marina Abramović Institute later issued an apology to Jay Z.A curator involved with the Picasso Baby performance told the Guardian that Kanye and Jay Z’s art-music pieces have little in common. “Doing things just for the sake of shocking people doesn’t make it art. He’s trying very hard to create a controversy so people will talk about it.”Or perhaps as West and Jay Z put it in their own single, Niggas in Paris, using a sample from Will Farrell’s Blades of Glory: “I don’t even know what that means. No one knows what it means, but it’s provocative. No it’s not, it’s gross. Gets the people going.”