“I guess I’m emotionally complicated in the most simple terms,” says David Lang, Pulitzer prize-winning US composer, eyeing me with an expression that is simultaneously intense and placid. He’s explaining why his music has become such a favourite of choreographers and film-makers – particularly the Italian director Paolo Sorrentino, who has featured Lang scores in his recent films. In the latest, Youth, Lang was tasked with writing Simple Song #3, hit opus of Michael Caine’s ageing composer character. Basically, he had to write the ultimate tune: a melody so easy that beginners can play it, yet so beautiful that it moves everyone to laughter and to tears.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “I wrote that song many, many times,” the 59-year-old tells me. “I would send a demo to Paolo, and he would write back saying, ‘I’m crying a little; I need to cry a lot!’ He wanted to trigger a deeply complicated but very accessible emotional response, so I suppose that’s why he came to me.” At last the director replied with a one-line email: “Now I am crying a lot.” I would send a demo to Paolo [Sorrentino], and he would write back saying, 'I'm crying a little; I need to cry a lot' Lang is well-versed in the art of writing music whose very plainness is loaded up with meaning. Over his career, he has honed a signature sound that is spare and chiselled, especially when writing for voices. It’s a mix of minimalism, medievalism and sour-sweet pop harmonies. Maybe it could be called neo-plainchant, with repetition and clarity driving home the meaning of the text. I ask him why he is increasingly drawn to writing for voices, expecting an answer to do with purity or human frailty or general unadornedness. “Well, there is that, too,” he says. “I mean, the power of voices is that they are people, that there’s no instrument between them and us, that they’re just telling us something. It’s the closest thing to a memoir or personal statement that a musician can give. But to be honest, I’m not totally interested in voices by themselves. I’m not interested in all the splendid technical things they can do. Sure, they can produce lush, florid, wonderful sounds, and I’m in awe of that beauty, but text is the thing. That’s why my pieces end up being so pared-down.” Even the spaces that invariably hang around his ultra-lean melodies are saturated with meditative intent. To get a sense of it, listen to his Little Match Girl Passion – the piece that won him the Pulitzer in 2008.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Lang was born in Los Angeles, but co-founded an ensemble, Bang on a Can, that has defined an unequivocally New York contemporary music sound for the last three decades. Now he’s rooted in the city. “You can see what an old-fashioned Soho artist’s loft looks like,” he emails as we arrange this interview. “My wife and I feel like we are historic re-enactors!” He has a point. His home is on the top floor of a Greenwich Village apartment block with a graffitied street door and no light on the way up several flights of creaky wooden stairs. At the top, I’m greeted by a compact man wearing thick-rimmed round glasses and standing barefoot in a big family kitchen. Parakeets and a turtle in the living room provide the soundtrack to our conversation (parakeets more than turtle), and for breakfast Lang lays the table with bagels, cream cheese, smoked salmon and filter coffee.It all feels very, well, New York, and a long way from the first world war and the Battle of the Somme. But that’s what we’re here to discuss – or rather, a piece called Memorial Ground that Lang has written for amateur and professional choirs to commemorate the centenary of the Somme, which began with the bloodiest day in British military history. Co-commissioned by the East Neuk festival and UK-wide cultural programme 14-18 NOW, Memorial Ground will be premiered in a potato barn in rural Fife by 100 singers from local choirs, plus the Scottish Chamber Orchestra Chorus and the Theatre of Voices conducted by Paul Hillier. It will then be restaged by choirs across the UK, culminating in multiple performances around Remembrance Day weekend. The score for Memorial Ground is a loose thing. Lang has written a hymn that repeats over and over like a passacaglia. That’s the “ground” of the title, and in Fife it will be sung by the Theatre of Voices. “The power of repetition!” he exclaims. “Such deep part of ritual and prayer.” For a text, he simply asked the internet. “I typed in the sentence, ‘We must always remember those who … ’ and Google auto-completed it: ‘Those who went before us’; ‘those who sacrificed their lives’; ‘those who struggle every day’. I chose all of the suggestions that weren’t pornographic or about a particular culture, that didn’t say something bad about someone or advertise a particular product.” (Lang uses this kind of Google sourcing fairly often for his texts: “It’s super fun!”)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lang’s Crowd Out at its premiere at Birmingham’s Millennium Point. Photograph: Robert DayAs well as the hymn he wrote a collection of little tunes. “Vague things, just shapes, not full-blown melodies. Motivic scraps, like cries of London.” He put these tunes online and invited the public to come up with texts to match. Responses included names of fallen soldiers and snippets of letters or memoirs. These will form the solos of Memorial Ground. Each iteration of the piece will be unique: how many times the hymn repeats, the choreography of the how the various parts fit together – all that can shift to suit the performers and the space. “It’s made to feel churchy,” Lang explains. “A broad doorway that lots of people can come into. I didn’t want to make anything too hard, too high, too low. Even in the hymn there’s a tune that says, ‘Sing in whatever octave you can.’ The idea is that people should find it useful.” He says he loves using music to solve problems – how to suggest nostalgia in Youth; how to atone for poverty and injustice in Little Match Girl Passion. “And with Memorial Ground we have an event with both personal and communal injuries attached to it. The problem here is how the personal and communal can coexist in the music. I needed to construct a ritual that would accommodate both.” Memorial Ground is made to feel churchy. A broad doorway that lots of people can come into A classic daunting Lang commission: construct exactly the right music for collective remembrance. “Right,” he nods, but he doesn’t look daunted. “How to write something that seems ancient, like a kind of music whose origins we don’t question. Actually, these are exactly the kind of problems I really like trying to solve. You can do a lot of things in music that call attention to your own existence, your own skill as a composer. Flashy things, exciting things, grandiose things that show how great the moment is. Music that says: ‘Aren’t I clever for thinking of this?’ But being an adult composer has been about learning to get rid of all that.” Perhaps it makes sense that his music seems to be getting ever leaner, as if searching for some nugget, some essence. “I’ve been figuring out what’s on topic and what’s off topic. That’s the struggle I’ve been having for the past 20 years. That’s the struggle I’m still having.”• Memorial Ground premieres at East Neuk festival on 2 July, then tours. A developed version will be performed at the National Portrait Gallery, London (rooms 21-30) on 12 November. 