Briohny Doyle      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Police Force as a Corrupt Breeze by Shane Jesse Christmass; False Nostalgia by Aden RolfeShane Jesse Christmass’ novel, Police Force as a Corrupt Breeze, projects itself in neon across a slippery temporality. It’s a world where there are “portals to the afterlife opening in the Middle East”. The streets are littered with “Holograms of Lindsay Lohan’s autopsy. Pipettes of poisonous bacteria and Dilaterol” and there is “a beheading in times square, during the intermission of the Lion King”. It is wild, flickering prose, cutting easily between news feeds, gifs, 1970s sci-fi and cop movies.Aden Rolfe’s False Nostalgia defies expectations about what a book (particularly a first book) will be – it is a collection of poems – sometimes lyrical and sometimes straddling criticism and drama – complemented by essays, exploring memory and our very human ability to falsify it, alone or together, yearning for a past that never was.Neither Rolfe nor Christmass could have known how well-suited their texts – in which nothing can be certain, although everything is vivid and compelling and might (though equally might not) mean something – would correspond to 2016. This year the world has been a rapid fire of unbelievable image- and sound-bites, and false nostalgia has ruled supreme. Rolfe’s exploration of his title concept reads presciently in retrospect: “Practicing a memory can strengthen your belief in it”, he writes. “That’s how the fiction creeps in.”• Briohny Doyle is the author of The Island Will SinkAndy GriffithsTalking to My Country by Stan Grant; Everywhere I Look by Helen Garner; The Curious Story of Malcolm Turnbull: The Incredible Shrinking Man in the Top Hat by Andrew P StreetAnother great year for Australian books! An early highlight was Stan Grant’s extraordinary Talking to My Country, which, for anyone who cares about creating an Australia that includes the original inhabitants of the land is, like the cover declares, “the book that every Australian should read”. Taking as its starting point the shameful treatment of Adam Goodes, it is truly a book that will open your eyes to a history of Australia that has been whitewashed to the ongoing detriment of all us.Helen Garner’s Everywhere I Look is like having a backstage pass into the mind, notebooks and creative process of one of Australia’s very best writers.Hats off to Andrew P Street who manages to wring the humour from the tragic lack of true leadership that has plagued Australia in recent years in The Curious Story of Malcolm Turnbull: The Incredible Shrinking Man in the Top Hat (a fantastic follow up to last year’s equally funny tragi-comedy, The Short and Excruciatingly Embarrassing Reign of Captain Abbott).• Andy Griffiths is the author of The 78-Storey Treehouse, with Terry DentonJane Harper      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Fine by Michelle Wright; The Natural Way of Things by Charlotte WoodThere are very few books that capture so many sides of Australian life as Michelle Wright’s book, Fine. Her short stories based around a central theme offer something different every time. Fine is a beautiful collection of snatched glimpses that leaves me wishing for more.Charlotte Wood’s The Natural Way of Things still lingers with me months after reading. As disturbing as it is intriguing, it demands to be discussed and dissected in a bid to find answers for the questions it raises.Hannah KentThe Museum of Modern Love by Heather Rose; Skylarking by Kate Mildenhall; Dark Fires Shall Burn by Anna Westbrook; Fight Like a Girl by Clementine Ford      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest One of my stand-out Australian reads from 2016 was undoubtedly The Museum of Modern Love by Tasmanian-based author Heather Rose. Rose has taken Serbian artist Marina Abramovic’s well-known 2010 performance of The Artist is Present at MOMA and placed it at the heart of a novel about the strengths and frailties of human connection and love.Set over the 736 hours Abramovic spent sitting silently behind a table in the New York museum’s atrium, Rose explores the lives of the (fictional) characters who choose to sit opposite her, or who otherwise witness her performance, particularly that of Arky Levin, a composer whose wife is dying. Amidst these beautifully-drawn characters is Rose’s fictionalised representation of Abramovic herself, contemplating art and its role and significance in her life. It is a glorious novel, meditative and special in a way that defies easy articulation.This year was also very good for debut novels of Australian historical fiction. I particularly enjoyed Kate Mildenhall’s Skylarking and Anna Westbrook’s Dark Fires Shall Burn, both of which are based on true events. Mildenhall’s Skylarking is set in a small 1880s lighthouse community, following the intense friendship of two girls who live there, while Westbrook’s takes place amidst the madams and criminals of 1940s Sydney, and yet both are remarkable for the way in which these settings are rendered, each in extraordinarily vivid detail. I hope that both Mildenhall and Westbrook continue to write: each clearly has an abundance of talent.It is also worth mentioning that my current read is Clementine Ford’s Fight Like a Girl. While I’m normally reluctant to comment on anything I haven’t yet finished, I feel very confident in singing this title’s praises. Ford’s exploration of her experience “as a girl in this world” is wonderfully accessible, funny and personal. It is exactly the type of book I wish someone had put into my hands when I was fifteen and working out how to be: how to be a girl, how to be a woman, how to be a feminist, how to be heard. • Hannah Kent is the author of The Good People Melina Marchetta      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Reckoning by Magda SzubanskiMagda Szubanski’s memoir, Reckoning, appealed to the genre-loving reader in me. It felt as if I was watching hundreds of movies; wartime espionage, the migrant’s journey, the coming-of-age school saga, the uni student’s journey at the height of 1970’s feminism, and more. It was epic, but so uniquely Australian and despite our different upbringings, it felt personal. As if it was written specifically for that younger me who took forever to feel comfortable in her own skin, so she could take on the world. • Melina Marchetta is the author of Tell the Truth, Shame the Devil Martin McKenzie-Murray      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Everywhere I Look by Helen GarnerFor years, Garner has offered me a model for journalism: a careful observer, she also tells us how those observations change her as well as the subjects of her gaze. Garner reveals her nervous system – but also the dubious games and improvisations of journalism.Everywhere I Look is a collection of Garner’s essays and diary entries from the past 15 years. She writes on friendship, ageing, film and literature. In The Journey of the Stamp Animals, she writes of rediscovering a children’s book that – many years earlier – had seemed so stuffed with illicit magic. Now an adult, this long dreamt-of book in her hands again, she finds the pleasure of having her memory – so often fickle and corruptible – vindicated. The book is as she remembered. It’s a measure of Garner’s talent that this small, obscure triumph carries the feeling of profundity. • Martin McKenzie-Murray is the author of A Murder Without Motive: The Killing of Rebecca RyleDi Morrissey      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Position Doubtful by Kim Mahood Kim Mahood writes like the artist she is: with perception, not only of memories, as she explores the years since her wonderful Craft for a Dry Lake, but she also paints the remote desert country of her childhood to a truthful reality.For half of the year, she is based in familiar Tanami desert country, not far from the station where she grew up. She leaves her creative work and teaching in Canberra, to work in Mulan, a small Indigenous community in Western Australia, where she coordinates a large mapping project that records and unravels Aboriginal knowledge, together with the parallel work of visiting white academics, scientists, researchers and artists; a blending of knowledge, customs and cultures.Mahood’s observations of country are insightful. Her friendships, her heart and fine pen, are illuminating. Part memoir, part a need to remember women friends who have died, her clear-eyed understanding of the landscape and its people, is written with a raw honesty that marries the poet and the painter, and places us there, with her, to follow, learn and understand. A beautiful and valuable book. • Di Morrissey is the author of A Distant JourneyNiki Savva      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Paul Keating: The Big-Picture Leader by Troy BramstonAlthough I haven’t finished reading it yet (it is 700 pages and only just released) Bramston’s book is a comprehensive portrait of a compelling and complex personality. Paul Keating was many things. We loved him or hated him, or we loved him and hated him all at the same time. One thing he was not was boring.Keating says the qualities successful politicians most need are courage and imagination. It’s a timely reminder just what that combination can achieve. He also says – and it comes through vividly in Bramston’s book – that he has the crazy gene. Those characteristics helped make him impossible to ignore or forget, and Bramston deserves credit for bringing him to life again. • Niki Savva is the author of The Road to Ruin: How Tony Abbott and Peta Credlin Destroyed Their Own GovernmentGraeme Simsion      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Music and Freedom by Zoë Morrison; The Waiting Room and We’re All Going to Die by Leah Kaminsky; Our Tiny Useless Hearts by Toni Jordan; Dead in the Water by Tania Chandler; Dangerous to Know by Anne Buist; True Girt: The Unauthorised History of Australia by David Hunt Try Zoë Morrison’s elegantly written and sometimes harrowing debut, Music and Freedom, and Leah Kaminsky’s The Waiting Room – a “one day in the life” of a doctor during a terror alert in Israel, with echoes of the Holocaust. For the light relief you’ll need after those two, Toni Jordan is in that small group of novelists who can write smart, character- and situation-driven humour, which is to say laugh-out-loud comedy: take Our Tiny Useless Hearts to the beach.Fellow RMIT graduate Tania Chandler followed last year’s crime debut with Dead in the Water, and my partner Anne Buist backed up hers with Dangerous to Know – both sequels and both more assured than their well-received debuts.Non-fiction: laughs and a surprising amount of painless education from David Hunt’s True Girt. And Leah Kaminsky again: the wise, illuminating and possibly life-changing We’re All Going to Die. We are, so get reading while you can.• Graeme Simsion is the author of The Best of Adam SharpMaxine Beneba-Clarke      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Portable Curiosities by Julie Koh; Music and Freedom by Zoë Morrison; Of Ashes and Rivers that Run to the Sea by Marie MunkaraJulie Koh’s satirical short fiction collection Portable Curiosities is cutting-edge writing in many ways. Zoë Morrison’s prize-winning Music and Freedom is hauntingly dark, but exquisitely written; there are scenes from it that still won’t leave me. In Australian memoir, Marie Munkara’s Of Ashes and Rivers that Run to the Sea is that funny-sad hybrid that makes your heart sing and hurt at the same time.• Maxine Beneba-Clarke is the author of The Hate Race • This article was edited on 2 January 2017 to correct a link