In the white-stuccoed nave of St Martin-In-The-Fields, cloistered from the late afternoon traffic of Trafalgar Square, a choir is performing one of the canticles of Evensong. Their voices meld and magnify in mid-air. Across the church, heads bow and eyes close – except those of a dark-haired man in jeans and a black bomber jacket, who Instagrams the altar window, drums his fingers on a prayer book and, finally, grips the pew in front as if he’s bracing against a storm. His mind, he’ll later tell me, is “swimming on a whole bunch of powerful things”. Tim Hecker, it seems, just doesn’t do quiet contemplation.A Canadian electronic artist recently signed to indie label 4AD, Hecker is in the business of making experimental music for the unconverted. Love Streams, his new album of beat-free, long-form compositions, is complex, evocative, arrestingly beautiful and disquietingly intense. It’s also built around the pillaged scores of 15th-century sacred choral music – hence the Guide inviting him back to church for the first time since he was 14.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Brought up Catholic in suburban Vancouver, Hecker quit Christianity following a sermon about God disapproving of jeans. He didn’t quit the buildings, though. The LA and Montreal-based artist has recorded, gigged and photographed album covers in churches. He has used their pipe organs to power whole records (2011’s Ravedeath, 1972) and tantalised audiences by performing concealed within their spiral stairs. For recent shows, he has taken to lighting them up like La Monte Young’s Dream House and filling them with fog.Unsound Adelaide: Tim Hecker and Daniel Lopatin; Robin Fox; Raime; Trinity He has described himself, half-jokingly, as making “fake church music”. Today he prefers “pagan music that dances on the ashes of a burnt church”, or “an electronic version of the Nordic desecrations of Christian sites”. Once Evensong is over and we’ve re-entered 21st-century London, he tells me he is still drawn to the transcendental tropes in sacred music – “But in my work they’re then hammered, moulded, inverted, eviscerated, pushed into another realm.” Less Paradise Lost, more paradise pummelled.Having started out making glitch techno, Hecker threw out “calculated styles” with the turn of the millennium and committed instead to what he calls “weird music”. He saw Gerhard Richter’s squeegee paintings and thought, “Who makes the musical equivalent of this?” He finished a – brilliant, Google it – PhD on the cultural history of loud sound between 1880-1930 and fed the research into his live shows, using decibels alone to induce “some kind of secular God effect through sonic power” (a temporary dissolution of the self, that is, through sheer volume).       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tim Hecker performs at ATP Nightmare Before Christmas, December 2010. Photograph: Gary Wolstenholme/RedfernsHe wondered what the musical manifestation of fire might be. He has now made eight albums (among numerous other releases) over 15 years, whose governing creative principle is digitally pounding source material beyond recognition. No sentimental melodic counterweight. No familiar pattern of tension and release. It’s music that forces you to feel outside the box.His latest album, Love Streams, with its sea of austere electronics surprised by celestial ripples, wouldn’t have been possible without a piece of software called Melodyne, which can turn audio files into sheet music (and was also used to embroider the vocal arrangements for Björk’s Vulnicura). Melodyne can rescore existing music for any instrument, helping Hecker go “beyond sampling” to become more the sculptor and less the scavenger.He began work on Love Streams by illegally downloading a bunch of choral works by Josquin des Prez, a 15th- and 16th-century Franco-Flemish composer who left little of himself to history beyond graffitiing his name in the Sistine Chapel. Hecker turned these polyphonic templates into fresh scores, then gave them to the Icelandic Choir Ensemble at a recording session in Reykjavík, with instructions to “imagine you’re Chewbacca and you have a saxophone, and you just drunk 8,000 litres of codeine – now sing 10 times slower than that.” The aim was to drain their voices of any expression – “to become, like, dead, basically.” Some of the choir were hungover. Did that help? “I think so.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Emily BerlBy his own amused admittance, Hecker’s music straddles a strange schism between “minimal yoga compilations and the walk-on music for black metal bands”. The ultimate architectural manifestation of his music isn’t a church, he says. It’s more like The Hall Of Faces from Game Of Thrones season five. “The place where Arya washes dead people and gets caned by the assassin. It’s dark and infinite and has masks and creates diffusion. That seems like a good space.”At the same time, Hecker is perhaps the closest thing experimental music has to a breakout star. There have been high-profile support slots for post-rockers Sigur Rós and Godspeed You! Black Emperor, remixes for Mogwai and Philip Glass (the latter was shelved, but found online love in a leaked version), and an album collab with Daniel Lopatin, AKA Warp’s heir to Aphex Twin, Oneohtrix Point Never. After years on Chicago’s Kranky Records, in the company of cult drone and slowcore acts Stars Of The Lid and Low, Hecker is now labelmates with one of alternative music’s biggest recent crossover stories, Grimes.No Bieber? No problem! How Oneohtrix Point Never made a pop album without the pop stars “I’d be shocked if you told me 10 years ago that I could fill a 1,200-capacity church in London,” he says. “My music has disseminated in a way I would never have expected. It’s the rarest of stories – that I can make weird music, and make that my living. It’s hard to quantify these things but maybe the musical collective mind’s opening up.” He references Ryuichi Sakamoto’s multi-textured score for The Revenant, which layers acoustic and electronic sounds. Even in Hollywood, he feels, music is “going in interesting ways”.The studio is Hecker’s instrument. He acknowledges a big debt to ambient founding father Brian Eno, who once came to a gig of his at London’s St Giles-in-the-Fields. But that doesn’t mean you can charge Hecker with rescuing the ambient genre from new age associations or the funeral pyre of 90s rave.“I play with the idea of ambient music like I play with religious form,” he says. “Playing a piano chord and letting it echo for two minutes before you change key … that’s something I already went through. I need a little bit of threat, menace, confusion about what I’m making. I needed to get a bit more crazy.”Ambient music, Eno declared, “must be as ignorable as it is interesting”. Hecker’s just doesn’t work that way, and Love Streams is profoundly exciting. For Hecker, it’s all about escaping the creative bottleneck into which he sees electronic artists being steered. Yes, technology is cheap and entry-level accessible. Sure, it’s now possible to do pretty much anything with sound. Yet making genuinely “weird music” is getting trickier because the software has become so standardised.“There’s enough banal music out there, designed to sell product and give ideas of universal harmony and pedestrian vibes,” he says. “I don’t want to contribute to that. But it’s not easy. The software encourages you to make 4x4 rhythms, to use certain types of synth sounds, to repeat things. You take home your Apple Store computer with your Apple Store keyboard and you make music you’re told by Apple to make. Breaking out of that involves a lot of hard work.”So what was he thinking about, back in church? Lots of things, he says, but mainly “how arrogant modern music is. The power of polyphonic vocal in a reverberant space – it’s simple and transcendent. I found myself questioning my work. Like, in 2016, is music better than it was in 1547? Probably not, right?”Love Streams is released on 4AD on Friday