‘We live in such a throwaway culture, where everything from clothes to furniture is seen as short-term and disposable,” says Su Mason. “But living like that is anathema to me. It’s far more interesting to be surrounded by things that have been made with care, and have stories to tell.” Mason lives in a flat in a converted factory in east London but, in contrast to some slicker conversions, her home still has a working life. With two bedrooms, a small bathroom and a walk-in kitchen, the main living space doubles as a store room for rails of clothes and stacks of fabrics that she sells at markets and antiques fairs. It’s interesting to be surrounded by things that have been made with care, and have stories to tell Her stock includes monogrammed French linen sheets, women’s workwear from the Second World War and more frivolous finds, such as a 20s peach silk nightdress, a glittering Biba sheath and a dusty-hemmed Miss Havisham-esque embroidered gown.“I’m surrounded by the ‘stuff’ of life,” says Mason. “Many of these clothes were made for special occasions and then packed away in a trunk in an attic. They make you think about the story behind each piece – not only who wore it, but the seamstress who measured up, selected a particular silk thread and then stitched it by hand.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dog’s life: Su with her pug, Pepper. Photograph: Penny Wincer/ObserverMason also specialises in utility wear: women’s dungarees and thick overalls that, conversely, “would have been worn day-in, day-out, but women liked to patch with brighter scraps or embroider, to make them a bit prettier and more individual.”Mason moved into this rented flat in December 2013 and shares it for part of the week with her daughter Romilly, and Pepper, her pug. The building used to be a Clarks shoe factory and is close to what was once the heart of the East End rag trade. The flat’s industrial past shows in the exposed pipes, bare brick walls and high Crittall windows designed to let in lots of light to work by. The doorways are extra high and wide, so stock could be moved around easily. In Mason’s living room area, double doors open above the old loading yard, where goods were winched down. The doorways are extra high and wide, so stock could be moved around easily Mason and Romilly have decorated this flat in a style that suits its unvarnished appearance, with secondhand market finds and hand-me-down furniture. The big farmhouse table was passed on by a friend while other items were bought in markets here and in France, where Mason travels a lot to buy fabrics. The entomology (framed butterflies) and taxidermy are antique. “Romilly buys dilapidated collections and restores them and the boxes,” she says. Mason has made cushion covers from squares of vintage linen, toile and dyed cloth that are too small to sell, or too special to part with.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Old hang ups: some of Su’s vintage clothes. Photograph: Penny Wincer/ObserverShe has a stall under the canopy at London’s Portobello Road market and is a regular at antiques and vintage fairs. Her customers include fashion students and designers: “I’ve sourced workwear that has been a big inspiration for Margaret Howell’s designers,” she says. “And I’ve just got in some beautiful 50s ballet pumps with a neat shape that I think a shoe-designer friend will love.” Seamstresses for the theatre and TV also come to Mason for authentic clothes, plus era-accurate original buttons and thread, so that costumes look as authentic as possible.One room of the flat is full of haberdashery drawers, containing immaculate cards of pearl buttons, military epaulettes and spools of thread, many bought in French markets. “There’s something so lovely about their intactness, some with the price – a few sous – pencilled on the back,” she says.Sadly, Mason and her daughter will soon be on the move, as this former factory is being sold to developers. “A very familiar story around here, which is a great a shame, but we’ve had some good years,” she says. “I just hope the next owners love this setting as much as I do.”Su Mason is on Instagram as @sumasonlondon 