Coldplay and Beyoncé: skip the cultural appropriation for Super Bowl halftime | Anthea Butler Applause rang through the hangar-like exhibition space at a quarter past noon on Thursday when Chris Martin took the stage before a gallery of whirring camera shutters, popping flashbulbs and several hundred fawning journalists. “I feel like Donald Trump,” the Coldplay frontman quipped.The occasion was a press conference ahead of the English band’s half-time performance at Super Bowl 50 on Sunday night at Levi’s Stadium in nearby Santa Clara. No one expected Dylan at KQED but even by NFL standards it was an overblown and vapid affair, a showcase for entertainment journos mostly preselected by the league’s roving PR flaks to lob such confectionary queries as: “Are you Beyoncé stans?” or “Will Apple and Moses be watching?” or – the lone direct question to Martin’s band-mates Jonny Buckland, Guy Berryman and Will Champion – “How much does it drive you crazy that Chris gets all the attention?”How I came to terms with my Coldplay fandom To commemorate the Super Bowl’s golden anniversary, the NFL asked Coldplay and sixth-year half-time show director Hamish Hamilton for a performance that honors the past, present and future. To that end Martin, who seemed bemused by Thursday’s scene but never above it, said he and the band watched every previous half-time performance “many times” – though surely at least portions of Up With People’s four performances were skimmed over.“We decided we wanted to make it about togetherness, acceptance and the things we believe in. Then we called the right guests, so we know that we have great people joining us,” Martin said. Nods to the past will include cameos by erstwhile half-time show performers Beyoncé (confirmed) and Bruno Mars (widely reported), while a collab with the Youth Orchestra of Los Angeles will throw it forward.Coldplay: only the latest pop stars to misrepresent India as an exotic playground Champion said the 12-minute performance will also draw inspiration from Glastonbury, the festival Coldplay are widely expected to headline in June, which he described as “one of our favorite places to play in the world”.“It’s full of color and pageantry and it’s an amazing sort of spiritual home of music,” the drummer said. “We wanted to bring that vibe to the Super Bowl half-time show. We can’t compete in terms of amazing dance routines and all that, so we have to try and do what comes naturally to us, which is to try and provide a little fun and great atmosphere for people to come and be together.”When asked how the band would condense a career spanning 18 years and seven long-players into a 12-minute performance, Martin quipped: “We decided we’d play all our No 1s and work out how to fill the other 10 minutes.”Coldplay: how can something so banal be so powerful? | John Harris Once the province of college marching bands, Carol Channing and Chubby Checker, the half-time show underwent a paradigmatic shift in 1992 when Fox counter-programmed Super Bowl XXVI with a special live episode of In Living Color that included a countdown clock to cue channel-surfers to resumption of the game. That cost CBS an estimated 22 million viewers and led the NFL to reinvent the half-time show as a pop spectacular starting with Michael Jackson’s famous 1993 performance. The platform has since become a global marketing opportunity flanked by million-dollar advertisements that routinely draws more viewers than the game itself.“Everyone who does this show knows it’s the biggest honor and the biggest privilege so they put their life and soul into it,” Martin said. “I think we’re going to try and celebrate those and hopefully make a show as memorable as some of our favorites.”When asked who they were rooting for the band offered up a response as inoffensive as their oeuvre. “We think they’re all amazing,” the frontman said. “Anyone that can withstand that amount of pressure and physical endurance is great in our books.”