Ten young men sit with canvases and charcoal pencils, deep in concentration as they attempt to sketch the life model kneeling in front of them. Their pictures are bold, stark and wholly lacking in artistic merit. It’s an unusual stag party.The modern groom: a lesson in accessories But then stag parties are changing. Out are boozy nights filled with strip clubs and heaving bars, and in are activities such as life drawing workshops, treasure hunts, cookery classes and historical city tours. The traditional stag do could soon be a thing of the past.The groom-to-be at this particular party in a Norwich hotel is Paul Clifton, a 33-year-old insurance underwriter. “This is something of a new experience for me,” he says. “I am genuinely not very good. But I’m trying my best. I wanted to do something different, and I knew that with Paul as my best man, that’s what we would be doing.”His best man is Paul Lees, 31. “There’s a pressure these days to do something different and this is something unusual for a group of boys,” he says. “I wouldn’t say the traditional stag weekend boozing didn’t appeal at all but some of us are married with kids and it’s not really us.”The model, Esther Bunting, 39, posing nude, says she sits for many stag parties. “I’ve been a life model for many years but the stags have only started in the last few years and I really enjoy them.”It’s a big change. Britain’s largest stag celebrations company, Chilli Sauce, which sends hundreds of thousands of men on stag weekends each year, says that only 30% of its bookings now involve alcohol or strip clubs, down from 50% in 2011. And those that do involve drinking have changed.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A old-style stag night in Aberystwyth in 2011. Photograph: Alamy“Of the activities that are related to alcohol, pub crawls are still popular, but more in-depth activities, such as distillery tours or wine tasting, are appearing more and more,” says company spokeswoman Lauren Troughton. If the rate of decline continues, traditional stag parties could die out over the next few years.Behind the change are two substantial changes in society. The first is the increasing age of grooms – the average age for a man to get married for the first time is now 33, up from the mid-20s for their parents’ generation.The second factor is that, despite the headlines about binge-drinking, young people  drink less alcohol than previous generations. In the 25-44 age bracket, the number who are teetotal has increased from 15% in 2005 to 20% in 2013. So they and their friends don’t see getting falling-down drunk as the most fun they can have on their “last night of freedom”.Heating engineer Sam Hollies, 35, recently organised a wine tasting for his friend Chris’s stag do through wine company ThirtyFifty. “He didn’t want the boozy strip club scenario,” says Hollies. “He wanted a friendly and chilled-out time. I’ve been on a few stag dos – boozy ones in Newcastle and Magaluf, but people are a bit fed up now with the laddish culture of not so long ago. Guys in their 30s have been there and done that, so we want something more chilled.”Mike Wood, founder of stag events firm Freedom Ltd, says he is convinced that the new-look stag do is a reflection of the change in age of the typical groom- to-be over the past 20 years.“When we established the business in 1996 the average age of stags was about 27,” he says. “It’s now about 35 and those people are in the middle of their careers, maybe middle management. So the brief that we get is that they’re looking for memorable weekends and ‘please keep us out of the pubs’ and that’s led to a whole range of new activities.“Some try their hand at life drawing, or escape rooms [a game where participants have to solve puzzles to get out of a locked room] are very popular. And sightseeing tours combined with treasure hunts are a huge seller – they go to Barcelona or Berlin and learn a lot about the local history and culture by having to collect historical facts along the way.”Sam Canle, 28, who works in retail, has booked a treasure hunt around Brighton for his friend Matt’s stag weekend in August, organised by the Stag Company. “We wanted to avoid the stereotypical stag bar crawls and clubbing,” he says. “A treasure hunt just seemed a fun thing to do without drinking. People are leaving the stereotypical stag do behind.”