The Penny Arcade Expo (Pax) is one of the biggest gaming conventions in the world, bringing together classic consoles, the latest shooters, mobile games, PCs, Macs, tabletops – and the people who love them.For the latest event in Melbourne, Pax Australia, the biggest companies in the world – including Nintendo, Microsoft and Sony – came to show off their wares, but the most interesting stuff was relegated to one corner of the exhibition hall: Pax Rising, where independent developers let you play their latest games.Australia used to have several major international studios producing games but from 2008, several mainstays shut their doors – Sega, THQ and 2K among them – due to the global financial crisis and the rising Australian dollar.The best video games of 2016 so far What’s sprung out of this collapse is a series of small innovative Australian studios, most of them with between three and 30 employees. We’ve had smash hits such as Fruit Ninja, Crossy Road, Flight Control and Shooty Skies sell millions of copies around the world each year – but there are many more games that fail than succeed.Here’s our pick of the indie scene from Australia and beyond. Mini metroPlatform: Available now on iOS, Android, PC and MacDeveloped by: Dinosaur Polo Club, New Zealand      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mini Metro lets you create your own rail network, if that’s the sort of thing you’re into. Photograph: Dinosaur Polo ClubEver been stuck on a crowded train and thought, “I could design a better transport system”? Well now you have your chance. In this ever-growing transport network, you need to figure out the best combination of lines, carriages and tunnels to get your passengers to where they need to go in the most efficient way. The game is so intuitive it doesn’t even need instructions – and the soundtrack is fantastic.For fans of: Snake, Ticket to Ride, public transport maps, minimalist designA Township TalePlatform: Release date not announced yet on HTC Vive and Occulus RiftDeveloped by: Alta VR, Australia      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A Township Tale is a virtual reality game where you run a village with others. Photograph: AltaSydney-based game company Alta have made a social virtual reality game in which you run a village with others, taking turns mining, smithing, hunting and building. Every other VR game I saw at Pax was either about solving puzzles, shooting things or “on rails”, meaning it wouldn’t let you move around and explore. They’re all fun to play, but A Township Tale was unique. It was refreshing to play a game where you could just hang with friends, building things and soaking up the atmosphere. In the short demo I played I could see so many possibilities; I’m excited to see where they take this one.For fans of: Minecraft, cooperative social games, villagesOrwellPlatform: Available now on PCDeveloped by: Osmotic Studios, Germany      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cassandra Watergate was at the scene of the crime, has a police record, and in her private chats she talks about killing someone and stealing a credit card. Is she guilty? You decide. Photograph: SurpriseAttackThis German-made game is set in the near future where all of our movements are tracked online, we post publicly on social media, and the state monitors our conversations to decide what our secret intentions are. So, not too far in the future then.You’re tasked with snooping on potential terrorists after a bombing. You monitor their private conversations, look up their police records and use all the information at your disposal to decide if they should be prosecuted. Is the subject dangerous? Should they be locked away? Or are you making judgements without a full picture?For fans of: Papers Please, Paul Farrell, general feelings of paranoiaObjects in SpacePlatform: Available mid-2017 on PC and MacDeveloped By: Flat Earth Games, Australia   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I can’t see where the pirate is unless my ship is facing him. I fire my engine to hide in a nebula, but he sees me first and launches a missile – I’m hit! I run to the engine room to repair my reactor but it’s too late – a second missile disintegrates my ship, and my short spell as a captain is over. Objects in Space is an open world stealth space-trading game where you are captain and maintain your own starship, buying and selling merchandise and trying to stay a step ahead of pirates and other dangers in the galaxy. Flying this ship is not about fancy moves but strategy, timing and stealth. In one of the game’s best features, it lets you create your own way to control the ship. You don’t need to stick with just your keyboard and mouse; you can actually build your own controls with buttons, switches and dials. This makes the game much more immersive, and makes you feel like you really are in your own ship. It will be very interesting to see what customised interfaces the community creates.For fans of: Sitting patiently in the dark, U-571, building thingsDeath SquaredPlatform: Available Early 2017 on PC and XBox OneDeveloped By: SMG Studios, Australia      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Death Squared is a cooperative puzzle game you can play with friends or family around the TV. Photograph: SMGI had a short go of this one with a developer, but I got the most out of watching a family of four play together. They each controlled a square robot and had to solve puzzles by triggering switches, moving walls and carrying each other around the map. They died often but were ecstatic when they made it to the end of each level together.The whole game has been created to facilitate this kind of social experience in front of a TV, and I love that people of all ages are able to play together; it’s all about observation and teamwork, instead of doing things as fast as possible.For fans of: cooperative puzzle games, fun with the family, cubesAdventure PalsPlatform: Available early 2017 on PC, MAC and XBox OneDeveloped By: Massive Monster, Australia   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This cartoony game has you jumping from platform to platform, fighting monsters and throwing bombs. With your trusty giraffe by your side, you’re on a quest to save your dad from an evil scientist who wants to turn all old people into hot dogs. Adventure Pals draws a lot from cartoons such as Adventure Time or Spongebob Squarepants, but manages to pair that absurdist humour with a really fun gameplay experience. For instance: when you jump, you can hold the button to float downwards more slowly – a simple mechanism used in many of these types of games. But in Adventure Pals, the move is visualised by having the giraffe stick its head out of your backpack, rotating its tongue like a helicopter blade. It’s just a lot of fun to play!For fans of: Adventure Time, platformers, whimsyBurger UpPlatform: Any hard surfaceDeveloped By: Rule & Make Games, Australia      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   In Burger Up you need to build bigger burgers than your opponent. Photograph: Rule & Make GamesThis is a card game you play with two to four others. You’re competing by making burgers. Can you make the Queenslander by getting BBQ sauce, beetroot and fried egg? Or will you go for the Iron Giant, using three or more patties? Who will win the burger race?I have a confession to make: I’m an absolute strategy board game geek who can spend hours with friends managing campaigns across three different game boards at once. But my partner isn’t quite so inclined so I’m always on the look out for fun things that can bring us together at home or on a trip. This is the kind of fun that can bring a lot of different people around a table. Just in front of me at Pax was a couple in their 50s, who bought the game after trying it on the show floor. Plus: everyone likes burgers. For fans of: Card games, food, making yourself very hungryFramed 2Platform: Available early 2017 on iOS and PC. (Framed 1 is available on iOS, PC and Android)Developed by: Loveshack Entertainment, Australia      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It makes your brain work hard’: Framed 2. Photograph: LoveshackThis puzzle game lets you change what happens in the panels of a comic strip. When the story first plays out, you’re running from the cops – but you’re caught in each page. Can you rearrange the panels to solve the puzzle? What if you change which corridor you go down first? Or see if you can sneak behind the cops instead of running straight into them?Watching someone play the game, at first I thought they were just reading an animated comic – but when I realised what was happening all the gears in my brain turned at once. Playing it is a delight; it’s stylish, beautiful to watch once you arrange all the panels – and it makes your brain work hard.For fans of: Puzzle games, comics, noir and jazz