They may be seen more on YouTube than conventional television these days, but a presidential campaign advertisement can still scandalise, distill a message like little else, and even swing an election. Donald Trump’s latest, Dangerous, is already stoking outrage with its signature offensive of innuendo and untruth, but he’s hardly the first to court controversy. How do some of the most notorious campaign ads in history stack up against it?Dangerous (2016)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest An unusual candidate in every respect, Trump has long favoured Twitter and the use of his celebrity to leverage free TV coverage over traditional campaign ads. The latter tend to play like an intro to his benighted Celebrity Apprentice: stolid, explicit and exhausting. Dangerous lists the external threats to American security (the Middle East, North Korea and Islamic State but no Russia, naturally), then accuses Clinton of lacking fortitude with footage of her recent public faint and of her coughing. Having praised her as a “fighter” in Sunday’s TV debate, Trump neatly encapsulates his contradictory and very loud campaign. Daisy Girl (1964)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Girl counts petals picked from a flower. Nuclear countdown interrupts. The world ends. Without even naming his opponent, Lyndon B Johnson characterised Barry Goldwater as a loose cannon with views on nuclear weapons that would now be described as “intensely relaxed”, even “Trump-esque”. Only broadcast once but exhaustively analysed on the news, it brought political advertising into the modern age. As devastating a minute of television as has ever aired. Willie Horton (1988)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This ugly affair from George Bush Sr built on his equally infamous Revolving Door advert, alerting voters to a murderer who committed rape while on a weekend pass from prison in the state of his opponent Michael Dukakis, who advocated the rehabilitation of criminals. It laid waste to the Democrat’s law and order policies, but no less significant was its use of the dog whistle over the bullhorn when it came to racial politics: Horton was black, and his name was William, not Willie. Mirrors (2016)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Over plaintive piano and a slurry of Trump misogyny, a group of young girls comb their hair before a question is posed. “Is this the president we want for our daughters?” It may not be especially subtle or even very smart, but compared to Dangerous, Clinton’s ad is Bergman-esque – and its message impossible to deny. Convention (1968)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The ultimate bad trip from the year the hippy dream started to sour. Blaming the well-meaning but ineffectual Hubert Humphrey for countercultural chaos, Vietnam and nationwide poverty, Richard Nixon appealed successfully to his emerging “silent majority”. A sensory onslaught and a masterpiece of distortion, in every sense. Any Questions? (2004)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest As Dubya learned from his old man, sling enough mud and some of it will stick. Any Questions? wasn’t an official ad, but was tacitly endorsed by Bush and adopted the style of a stirring war homily (think Band of Brothers: the Documentary) as a group of Vietnam vets smeared John Kerry’s war record. It later transpired that none of them had served alongside him, and Bush was of course a draft dodger, but the damage was done.The Bear (1984)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In sharp contrast to the pro-Reagan hymn Prouder, Stronger, Better, this ingenious, insidious ad paired a pulsing soundtrack with sinister, ambiguous images of a grizzly wandering around the woods. The implicit Soviet imagery was clear enough, but it pressed home Reagan’s message of peace through strength without screaming about it. And the last line – “isn’t it smart to be as strong as the bear, if there is a bear?” – was a killer conversation-starter.South (1976)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest After the paranoid and unscrupulous Nixon era, Georgian peanut farmer Jimmy Carter cast himself carefully as a man of the people. From the banjo-picking soundtrack to the bucolic backdrop, this ad marked a refreshing return to straightforward, uncynical campaigning and demonstrated the enduring appeal of the outsider, distant from DC horse-trading. Gerald Ford never stood a chance.Ike for President (1952)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This Walt Disney-created effort pairs a catchy tune (“Hang out the banner, beat the drum, we’ll take Ike to Washington”) with irresistibly cute animation – an elephant banging a drum! Babies brandishing balloons! – to create a message so simple it’s virtually meaningless. There’s nothing dull like policy statements here, just feel-good fun to get voters whistling all the way to the ballot box, where they would vote Eisenhower in their droves.Kennedy for Me (1960)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In many ways a continuation of Ike-era innocence, Kennedy for Me allied childish illustrations with a hummable tune, slightly more pointed this time (“a president who’s seasoned through and through, but not so doggone seasoned that he won’t try something new”). This blast of irrepressible optimism buoyed JFK through choppy waters until his murder, which ensured a very different tone for 1964. The age of the attack ad had dawned and political campaigning changed forever.