We spend a fortune on vitamins and painkillers in the UK; about £362m on each a year. And a new report by industry analysts shows that, for the first time in a decade, sales of vitamins have risen above those of painkillers. Theories accounting for the growing demand for supplements include our hectic modern lifestyle, awareness of healthy living and an ageing population. This implies that we have no time to eat real food, think we need to boost vitamin intake to be healthy and that the elderly are suckers for products promising pain-free joints and eternal youth. But, even if we don’t believe all the marketing hype, are vitamin and mineral supplements good for us?Many of us will have lowish vitamin D levels after a long winter and the health implications are unclear. NHS Choices recommends that everyone over 65 and people who don’t get much sun take a small daily supplement. Pregnant women and people whose diet is very restricted (such as alcoholics and some vegans) need expert dietary advice. Some people can’t absorb vitamins from food because of gut surgery or damage from conditions such as Crohn’s disease. Vitamin deficiencies can result in serious health problems such as rickets (vitamin D), scurvy (vitamin C) or severe anaemia (B12 and folate). A simple blood test organised by your GP will diagnose most of these.If you’re well with no symptoms and a reasonable diet, it’s very unlikely that you’ve got a significant vitamin deficiency. The question is whether taking them will do you any harm. The small print on the tub tells you the recommended daily allowance of each active ingredient. If you stick to that, you should be OK. Vitamins B and C are water soluble, so any excess ends up in your urine. However, vitamins A, D, E and K are fat-soluble, so excess is stored in fat and levels can build up. High levels of vitamin A can be toxic.Do you take supplements?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Leah. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianLeah, 38, strength and conditioning coachOccasionally, if I’m ill, I take vitamin C, zinc and echinacea. I’m not sure whether it’s psychosomatic or whether it helps me.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Prem. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianPrem, 36, web editorI take iron supplements regularly – I’m vegan and it can be difficult to get iron. I also take B12 sometimes. I don’t take vitamins for colds, I just drink orange juice.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Valentina. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianValentina, 19, studentI was researching supplements, but I just decided to stick to fruit and veggies. I did a blood test after one year of being vegan and it was better than when I wasn’t.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Adam. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianAdam, 38, recruitment business ownerI don’t take vitamins regularly. I’ve probably tried vitamin C and Berrocca – it’s meant to be good for a hangover, but I’m not sure if it worked or not.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Steffen. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianSteffen, 35, project managerI’ve not tried many vitamins, just vitamin C. I caught a terrible cold and I thought it would help me to push my immune levels, but I didn’t feel much of a difference.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alvin. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianAlvin, 22, pharmacology studentI think it’s become a fashion trend to request checks for deficiencies. People from south Asian backgrounds tend to lack vitamin D, so I do try to take it often.Interviews by Ellie Violet Bramley and Wail Qasim