Born on Merseyside, Chisholm, 42, was a member of the Spice Girls. In 1998 she collaborated with Bryan Adams on the hit When You’re Gone, and in 2000 had a solo number one with I Turn To You. She made her acting debut in Blood Brothers in 2009 and was nominated for an Olivier award. Her seventh solo album, Version Of Me, is released later this month. She lives in London with her daughter.When were you happiest? Becoming a mum quashed so many demons within me, and gave me confidence and a sense of calm.What is your greatest fear? Losing people. It’s been a sad year: I lost two dear friends to cancer.What is your earliest memory?Aged three, in a cake shop, hearing Wuthering Heights on the radio.What is the trait you most deplore in yourself?That negative inner voice. Anybody who has suffered with depression knows it’s lurking.What is the trait you most deplore in others?People who revel in your misfortune.What was your most embarrassing moment?At a party in LA in 1999, a friend was lending me his car, so I leant over the person next to him and said, “Can I get the keys?” He pulled this funny face; the person sitting next to him was Madonna. I said, “Oh, sorry, I didn’t see you there.” She came back with, “Well, I am somewhat of a wallflower.”What is your most treasured possession?My bike. I’ve been doing triathlons for the past few years.What is your most unappealing habit?I crack my knuckles when I’m anxious.Property aside, what’s the most expensive thing you’ve bought? Holidays. In the Spice Girls, we found ourselves with quite a few quid, so it was lovely to hire a big house in the Caribbean and have friends and family over.Which book changed your life?The Dusty Springfield biography, Dancing With Demons. It opened my eyes to mental health problems and how hideous the tabloids can be.Is it better to give or to receive?Give. I start thinking about Christmas in September.What do you owe your parents?Determination and a strong work ethic. My mum, Joan, is a singer and she’s still out there in her 60s.To whom would you most like to say sorry, and why?The Spice Girls – Mel B, Geri and Emma – who wanted to mark our 20th anniversary, and the fans. It was not something I felt comfortable doing.What does love feel like?Safe, strong and smiley.Who would you invite to your dream dinner party?Just my best buds.Sadiq Khan: ‘Who’d play me in the film of my life? George Clooney’ What is the worst job you’ve done?Working in a chip shop when I was 16. I gave my friends massive portions, but the smell was gross.If you could go back in time, where would you go?Liverpool in the swinging 60s.What keeps you awake at night?My little girl. I often get visits just for a cuddle.What is the most important lesson life has taught you?To speak up. I spent my youth being frightened of confrontation, but I’ve realised that doesn’t serve you well.Tell us a jokeQ: Why did Adele cross the road? A: To say, “Hello from the other side.”