There’s been no end of speculation about the palaeolithic diet, and most of it is nonsense. There’s a simpler description of what our ancient ancestors were likely to have eaten than the precise diets on which various mountebanks insist: whatever they came across.This would have varied greatly from place to place and season to season. The remarkable saltmarsh excavations at Goldcliff on the Severn estuary provide us with a few glimpses of how the mesolithic hunter-gatherers who lived there some 8,000 years ago might have survived.The archaeologists found the bones of giant aurochs, red and roe deer, and wild boar, often charred and chipped by stone axes; a few otter and duck bones, scorched hazelnut, and cockle and crab shells. But overwhelmingly the remains are of fish: salmon, pouting, bass, mullet, flatfish and, above all, eels. A Y-shaped stick the archaeologists discovered might have been used to trap eels buried in the mud.Dolphin on Christmas menu for Cornwall's roadkill chef The evidence suggests that these people hunted and foraged on the marshes only periodically, mostly in the summer and early autumn. The archaeologists speculate that, as well as hunting fish and game, they would have eaten the roots and shoots of reeds, the sweet gum oozing from rushes, the seeds of grass and orache, bark bread from the birch trees, nuts, acorns, leaves and wild fruit.In late autumn they might have migrated to beaches where seals came out of the water to breed. In winter, they appear to have moved inland, hunting migratory birds in the upper estuary, and deer and aurochs in the mountains. What the remains can’t show us is the soft plant material and invertebrates without hard shells (insects, shrimps and the like) that the Goldcliff people might also have eaten in great quantities.Nor can such discoveries tell us how we should live today. Before farming began in Britain, according to a paper in the journal Mesolithic Miscellany, these islands appear to have supported a maximum of 5,000 people. Even so, they seem to have overhunted their prey, severely reducing the numbers of large animals.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest We choose to think of our ancestors as strapping hunters, doing daily battle with monstrous beasts. But they are just as likely to have been engaged in the murky business of scavenging. And now, in some quarters, the tradition is being revived. It’s been reported that a retired biologist, Arthur Boyt, will mark the festive season by eating a dolphin he found washed up on the beach. I applaud his attempt to eat only meat that has not been killed on his behalf. But even I have my limits, and dolphin transgresses them.For a start, it’s illegal to possess the body parts of an endangered species, even if you played no role in its death. And dolphins, at the top of the food chain, accumulate the heavy metals and other toxins we dump in the sea. In particular, mercury, which comes mostly from coal burning, concentrates in their tissues.But when he suggests eating badger (which is excellent if slowly casseroled), fox, rabbit and pheasant, I’m with him all the way. And squirrel – well, you probably know my views about that.So what carrion should you eat, and what should you avoid? Let me preface these remarks by asking you not to rely on my word alone. While I’ve eaten plenty of roadkill, and have never made myself ill, I’m no expert on food hygiene. These are the guidelines I use:Experience: I eat roadkill • No cats or dogs, largely on the grounds that it would upset their owners.• Nothing that has been so mangled that the abdominal cavity has burst, exposing the meat to the gut contents.• Nothing in which shattered fragments of bone might be buried in the flesh.• Nothing that doesn’t look and smell fresh. If it’s been lying on a hot road for more than a couple of hours, I wouldn’t touch it.• Just about everything that doesn’t fit into one of the categories above.These days there’s a fair bit of competition for roadkill. Pass a dead deer with the intention of picking it up on the way back and you’re likely to be disappointed. I’m pleased that people are becoming more adventurous, and that the threshold of disgust, set remarkably low in countries like ours, is perhaps beginning to rise. But go easy on the dolphin.