Blood is running down a guy’s arm. He shoves his way across the patio of the Airliner in Los Angeles, a soggy cocktail napkin blooming red under his nose, and bumps into a girl bending over the ledge with a cigarette dangling off her lip. Another girl hands out Jell-O shots to her friends. There are always too many people at Low End Theory, the weekly, world-renowned Wednesday night gathering where beat devotees come to bob their heads and get their minds blown by producers, DJs and rappers. But on this frigid, winter evening, the club is swollen more than normal, and with lots of newbies. They’re here to see one of their favorite house producers, Claude VonStroke.Claude VonStroke's favourite tracks There is only one problem. Claude VonStroke isn’t taking the stage; Barclay Crenshaw is. “I actually forgot to do the thing I was supposed to do in the beginning. I said I was gonna do hip-hop, but then I got really good at house,” says Crenshaw, the man behind the VonStroke moniker. Possessing a lovable teddy bear vibe, he sports a bushy beard and an infectious grin. Tonight, in honor of debuting the first hip-hop album he recorded, which is self-titled, he’s dressed in a custom-made, khaki safari-style short suit with Hunter S Thompson spectacles. “I’m definitely more nervous about this project because I’ve never done it before. But the first tapes I bought were rap tapes and when I started making music at 11, it was with two jamboxes – tape splicing, rapping, beatboxing.”Turning his back on house music even temporarily could be unwise. After all, that’s the genre Crenshaw built his small but admirable empire on. Starting with the launch of his Dirtybird label in 2005 and release of his debut Beware of the Bird a year later, he has now dropped two other full-length albums, played festivals all over the world (and, with Holy Ship, on water) and thrown his label’s own Campout Festival as well as BBQ parties that draw over 3,000 attendees. Last year, he won America’s Best DJ in a DJ Times annual poll, seeing off EDMers such as the Chainsmokers and Kaskade. “When [the Chainsmokers] come on the radio with my kids in the car, I turn it down and say, I won Best DJ over them,” he says, his eyes crinkling as he lets loose one of his frequent chuckles. “They can’t believe it. But [winning] was all due to my fans. They just crashed the poll.”  Of course he is nervous about alienating them. It is never bitterly cold in LA, but at the Griffith Observatory the night after Low End Theory, it’s so chilly that tourists are bundled up in scarves, mittens, hats, the works. Crenshaw is tired and in a sweatsuit after a long day – running a successful independent label while getting ready to leave on a new tour and juggling family duties is hard work – but the air, so crisp it almost snaps, is invigorating and the city is glittering like a jewelry box. It’s been years since he’s driven up to the Observatory, but the new album is inspired by astronomy, sort of: its launchpad is a tale of children being abducted by aliens.Crenshaw’s fascination with the supernatural (not to mention his suspicion that he was different) has deep roots. When he was 10, he and a friend latched on to the idea that they were from another planet.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Barclay Crenshaw. Photograph: Daniel PetersonGrowing up in Detroit, Crenshaw first bought a jambox and then saved up money from mowing lawns to purchase a sampler. There were no YouTube tutorials to teach him how to use it, but he dug in, obsessed. Eventually, his passion split, and he studied film at the University of Rochester. After graduating in the early 1990s, he drove straight to Los Angeles and got a job interning for a pre-Empire Lee Daniels. Working as a PA in the film industry, he always dipped back into music in his free time, but the problem was that he didn’t know what to do with his music once he made it. So he decided to film a documentary about famous DJs and learn by interviewing them. When he wrapped, he had no money for licensing music. Instead, he made music that approximated each DJ’s style, and that’s how he became a house music producer. Meanwhile, he’d met his wife, who had a stable job and offered him a deal: she would pay the rent and bills and give him a year to get his label and career off the ground. If he could accrue $50,000, he could DJ forever. If he couldn’t, he’d have to get a “real” job. “We stole mailing lists from everyone. We had interns go get jobs as interns just to get mailing lists! I hand-mailed vinyls to every DJ in the world. I don’t think I ever worked as hard as that,” he says, laughing. It paid off. Dirtybird and Claude VonStroke (a joke name dreamed up while he and some artist buds were “super high”) were born. Over the past couple years, however, the idea that something was missing gnawed at him. He began fiddling with hip-hop beats and employed a more collaborative process, recruiting live musicians, rappers such as the Underachievers and even his two kids. What resulted are songs that are funkier than the glitchy skitter of Claude VonStroke, and shorter – instead of 15 tracks in his 90-minute set, he’ll play 50. “It’s a little exploration,” he says. “It’s going back to the beginning.” Like with any expedition, there are inherent risks. At the Airliner the night before, a chant breaks out: “Bar-clay, Bar-clay!” Crenshaw is spinning a remix of Busta Rhymes’ Woo Hah!! (Got You All in Check) that sounds dunked underwater. He morphs into U Are In My System from the new project, a jangly little hip-hop jam featuring the Cool Kids that punches the speakers, hard. “That’s my fuckin’ dad!” squeals a kid in the front row. After his set, a girl and her friends push through the throng to ask him to take a photo for her 21st birthday. His face breaks into a smile. “I could be your dad,” he says, sounding amazed. They either don’t hear him or they don’t care.