It’s that time of year when Britain is besieged by little green veg. As any kitchen gardener who has ever tenderly bedded in a courgette plant, fondly envisaging a couple of gratins, will ruefully attest, they are more prolific than Barbara Cartland, and similarly long-lived. After a couple of weeks of courgettes with everything, even the most committed cucurbitophile might feel the romance turning sour.The solution? Well, you can turn them into chutney or pickle, of course, to keep your relationship alive even when the plants are finally exhausted. You can freak your kids out with a courgette cake. Or you can save yourself a lot of time and effort, and turn them into fritters – because it is scientifically impossible to tire of hot, crisp little cakes, fresh from the frying pan.While they might seem like the easiest thing in the world to put together, as a reader who put forward the idea in the first place has found, there’s an awful lot of sub-standard recipes out there that make a mockery of your homegrown bounty. Courgettes may be easy to grow, but they are not always that easy to cook.The courgettes      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Vefa Alexiadou’s fritters. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianOpinion is divided as to whether the courgettes should be salted to draw out their liquid before use: Janet MacDonald, author of the magnificently specific recipe book Pumpkins and Squashes (sadly the even more niche title Cooking with Courgettes, which I also have in my possession, is silent on the subject of fritters) expressly cautions against this step, on the basis that “your batter will get diluted before you’ve finished cooking”. BBC Good Food magazine, food writer Katy Salter and Greek cookery icon Vefa Alexiadou are of the same opinion. In the opposite camp, chef Bill Granger, Deb Perelman of the Smitten Kitchen blog, and Martha Rose Shulman of the New York Times all recommend not only salting the grated courgette, but squeezing out the liquid as vigorously as possible before use. Perelman writes: “You’ll be shocked (I was!) by the amount of liquid you’ll lose, but this is a good thing as it will save the fritters from sogginess.”While it’s certainly possible to make decent courgette fritters without this step, should you be in a tearing hurry, the extra liquid imparts a slightly sloppy quality that requires delicate handling in the pan, and makes them obstinately averse to crisping up. Wring them out, and you will have more solid foundations for your fritters, which means you can use more courgette and less batter – which has to be a good thing in a dish designed to make the most of them (and use them up). An initial salting, of course, helps to season this undeniably bland vegetable more effectively than doing so after cooking.Perelman also writes that she prefers to use a food processor rather than a grater on her courgettes: “I’m convinced it creates the coarsest and most rope-like strands and frankly, I like my fritters to look like mops.” Unless you’re making a lot, however, I find it creates too much washing up – and there’s something oddly satisfying about grating something as soft and obliging as a squash.The batter      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   BBC Good Food’s fritters. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianThe simplest recipes, from MacDonald and Granger, bind the courgette strands together with a mixture of flour and beaten egg. BBC Good Food makes a wetter, more pancake-like batter with milk as well as eggs, that gives a firm, almost frittata-like result – pleasant enough, but not as crisp as I would like.Alexiadou’s recipe comes from her book of vegan recipes, Sunny Mediterranean Cuisine, “inspired by the tradition of the Nistia – the Christian church fast”, and as such, uses water, rather than eggs, which would probably work better for a more stridently flavoured vegetable, but leaves testers reaching for the hot sauce here.Shulman substitutes flour for breadcrumbs to make what she describes as “a Greek version of latkes” – not bad if you also happen to have a heel in need of using up, but a bit soggy if not – and Salter swaps it for fine polenta in her book Dairy-Free Delicious, which, as she observes, not only makes them gluten-free, but adds “extra crunch”. They are indeed utterly delicious, though, for the gluten-tolerant among us, I think a mixture of flour and polenta would work even better; hers are quite delicate to manoeuvre, and not only does flour act as a more effective glue, but it will also make the cakes slightly softer inside, as a contrast to the crunchy outer layer.After eating their body weight in fritters, the panel concludes the best are those in which the stands of courgette are just held together with the bare minimum of batter – too much and they become doughy and heavy.Raising agent      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Katy Salter’s fritters Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianYou certainly don’t need a raising agent in a fritter – Shulman, Granger and MacDonald make perfectly good ones without any such thing, but as Perelman, who uses baking powder, enthuses: “You wouldn’t believe how amazing it makes them, how they just lift off the pan when they’re flipped.” It also gives them a fluffier texture.Interestingly, Alexiadou’s fritters are yeast-risen, like little green-flecked crumpets. They’re not fritters as I know them but, with a little fat in the batter, they could be a very tasty alternative.Flavourings      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Martha Rose Shulman’s fritters. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianBBC Good Food keeps its fritters plain, but courgettes are crying out for some help in the flavour department. Not too much, though – Granger and Shulman’s feta cheese, though it pairs well with the vegetable, is very much the dominant partner in the relationship, which seems a shame unless you’re actively trying to disguise their presence. The same goes for Alexiadou’s dill, Granger’s mint and parsley, and even the basil in MacDonald’s Italian-accented version – they’re lovely, and this is the kind of blank canvas of a dish that can take any of them, but if you want to taste the courgette go easy on the herbs. A similarly delicate hand is required on the spice rack: Salter uses smoked paprika, and Shulman cumin, but to my mind, the sweeter, gentler spice of MacDonald’s nutmeg is more complementary to the subtle, slightly creamy flavour of the courgette.For exactly the same reason, the greener, fresher flavour of spring onion is a better match for a summer squash than MacDonald’s more pungent shallot. Like Salter’s fresh chilli, I think it would be best saved for the accompanying dip, though, truth be told, I could, and do, eat these on their own, hot from the pan. After a week of wall-to-wall courgette, that’s quite some boast.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bill Granger’s fritters. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianPerfect courgette fritters(Makes 10)500g courgettes½ tsp sea salt40g plain flour½ tsp baking powder20g fine polenta or cornmeal4 spring onions, finely chopped2 eggs, beatenGrating of nutmegOptional: 15g fresh herbs, chopped (I like dill), and 100g crumbled fetaOil, to cookCoarsely grate the courgettes into a colander and toss with the salt. Leave to drain for between 30 minutes and an hour, and then squeeze out very thoroughly and put into a large mixing bowl.Mix the flour, polenta and baking powder together well, then stir into the courgettes, along with the spring onions, beaten eggs and a good grating of nutmeg (and the herbs or feta, if using). Season again lightly.Coat the base of a frying pan with a decent layer of oil and put on a medium-high heat. When hot, dollop spoonfuls of the batter around the base and flatten slightly. Cook for a couple of minutes until golden brown, then flip and repeat. Blot with kitchen towel and serve immediately, while hot.Are fritters the single most delicious way to deal with a glut in the garden, or do you have other, more exciting tricks up your sleeve for courgettes and other seasonal veg?