The race row that has seen the metal community turn on Phil Anselmo, the former frontman of Pantera, is rumbling on, and Anselmo has now offered to leave his current band, Down.Racism is Phil Anselmo's problem, not metal's Anselmo had concluded a gig in Los Angeles on 22 January by giving a straight-armed salute and shouting “White power”, which he initially claimed was a reference to the white wine being served backstage. As it became apparent that many of his metal contemporaries were publicly condemning him, he altered his tone.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Now he has issued his most contrite statement yet, saying on his website:  I am utterly responsible for the mistakes I have made, and can only give you my word to no longer do them in the present, through ACTION, not just mere words.My bandmates are now experiencing the consequences of my behavior, and I now publicly apologise to them as well. Never in my entire lifetime would I drag them down with me, and I’ve privately suggested to them that they move on without me.My biggest obstacle(s) are the over-indulging in the booze and blurting out spiteful, ignorant reductions of the human spirit itself. I will address these issues head-on.I’m repulsed by my own actions, and the self-loathing I’m going through right now is justified by the hurt I’ve caused.I realise we live in a society where apologies are NOT accepted easily, yet long for a day when they can be, but I also understand if I’m shunned till I hit the dirt.From the bottom of my heart, and with all sincerity, I once again am truly sorry for the pain I have caused.”His Down bandmate Pepper Keenan took to Facebook to address Anselmo’s actions. “I am saddened and confused by the behavior of Philip Anselmo last week. I do not condone what was gestured and said. This lapse in judgment of ‘making a joke’ was in terribly poor taste and unacceptable,” he wrote. “I won’t speak for Phil but I’ve known him most of my life and I know there is not hate in his heart, however I hope at this moment in time Phil will focus his energy on self-reflection and begin the process of regaining perspective, healing himself and those lives he has touched through music …“One of the responsibilities and joys, in my opinion, of being an artist or musician is having the ability to help make the world a better place. I accept Phil’s apology, and I believe he can.”However, Anselmo’s actions continue to have consequences. The FortaRock festival in the Netherlands has cancelled Down’s appearance, saying: “We want to make clear that there is no room for racism or fascism on FortaRock.” And a home-town concert in New Orleans has been cancelled by the organisers, who said: “We do not tolerate intolerant behaviour, and there is no room for that in our venue or our city.”