In honour of Valentine’s Day, a poll for the TV channel Drama has attempted to find the most romantic lines in film, drama or television. The winner is “My heart is, and always will be, yours,” from the 1995 screen adaptation of Jane Austen’s Sense and Sensibility, as uttered by Hugh Grant’s Edward Ferrars to Emma Thompson’s Elinor Dashwood. For what it’s worth, that doesn’t feature in my own personal top two romantic moments in film history.The first is from Brief Encounter. Alec, the doctor played by Trevor Howard, is earnestly telling Laura, played by Celia Johnson, about all the opportunities for research into pneumoconiosis: “In the hospital here, there are splendid opportunities for observing cures and making notes because of the coalmines.” “You suddenly look much younger,” says Laura. “Do I?” asks Alec. “Almost like a little boy.”The second-most romantic moment comes from Casablanca. Humphrey Bogart’s Rick asks Ingrid Bergman’s Ilsa what she was doing 10 years before, and she says: “I was having a brace put on my teeth. Where were you?” And after a superbly judged thoughtful pause, Bogart says: “Looking for a job.” – and in his laconic reticence it is a very real moment. She was a child and he was a young man, hardly more than a boy himself. Those two romantic moments are my favourites because they are not overtly about love, but are suffused with love, and about how love changes adults into something like children. It also occurs to me that they are both spoken by couples having an extramarital affair.Premier Lear news The incredible resurrection of Leicester The town of Leicester is having a bit of a moment, thanks to the skyrocketing success of its football club, Leicester City, favourites to win the Premier League for the first time. Pondering what other famous things Leicester has done, people come up with the fact that Gary Lineker was brought up there, and also David and Richard Attenborough; Richard III’s body was discovered under a car park there.Well, fine. But why, oh why, does no one talk more about Leicester’s most famous resident: King Lear? Or rather King Leir, the actual, original monarch himself, inspirer of Shakespeare, who ruled Britain in the eighth century BC and founded Leicester, endowing it with his name (according to legend) before going on to attempt to divide his kingdom among his daughters, leading to catastrophe and despair. Leicester is associated with the greatest tragedy in English literature and the most famous scream of existential anguish. Why are there not signs up all around town: “You are now entering King Lear country – Howl, howl, howl, howl”? I can’t imagine. King Lear also contains Shakespeare’s oddest insult: “You base football player.”The joy of cash      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Cash transactions are a way of doing respectable business in privacy.’ Photograph: Gary Roebuck/AlamyBig bucks: high denomination bank notes - in pictures Peter Sands, former chief executive of the Standard Chartered Bank, has demanded that the British government scrap the £50 note – that rarely seen and exotically coloured pinky-burgundy piece of paper – because it’s used by people up to no good: tax evaders and the like. But why is cash always being demonised in this way? I confess to a twinge of libertarianism here. Cash transactions are a way of doing respectable business in privacy – unlike debit card payments, which are liable to be snooped upon. And the cash customer is not responsible for the tradesperson’s tax arrangements. I think we should stick up for the exotic and richly textured 50 quid note. After all, the egregious tax avoiders, such as Google and Facebook, appear to be able to pull off schemes without the help of big-denomination banknotes.