Welcome to our space – open every Wednesday from 10am-2pm – for discussing the day’s top Opinion articles. We’d like to kick off today with two articles.The new politics isn’t just protest – it’s about change from the ground up | Hilary Wainwright We just launched Eve Livingston on how corporate feminism oppresses women. She said that she’s sure someone benefits from society’s focus on a few high-flyers beating their wings against the glass ceiling, but it’s not the vast majority of women.Read the article in full here. Evidence shows that an increase in women business leaders has little impact on anyone but the women leaders themselves. It’s a work promotion dressed up as a feminist campaign ... Inequality will never be addressed by individual women filling the moulds of the men before them. Feminism should challenge this at its roots, rather than simply change its figureheadsSo, what do you think? Does other women leading the way help? How can feminism challenge this? What are your experiences?Elsewhere, Hilary Wainwright, co-editor of Red Pepper, has written about how community-led initiatives supported by groups such as Momentum challenge rule from above, and help to pave the way for a Labour-led government.  Those who dismiss the grassroots movements that look to Jeremy Corbyn for a political voice as unable to go beyond protest seem unable to understand how much politics beyond the Westminster elite has changed – especially on the left. The thousands of Momentum supporters who are signing up to the World Transformed festival to coincide with the Labour conference in Liverpool are just the tip of the iceberg of an imaginative new politics.The initiatives of generations of women since the early 1970s exemplify the direction of this change and what it could mean in the future. To categorise decades of feminist activities simply as “protest” is to miss out entirely on how feminism has changed the lives of millions of women in the here and now. They have protested and made demands on government, for sure ... In other words, “new politics” is about a lot more than politics in its narrow party-political, parliamentary sense. It opens up a new relationship between electoral politics and the mutuality and solidarity in everyday life, in the community and the workplace. Corbyn has come to represent this opening up of politics in Britain. It is what he has been doing all his life, and this is what young people can sense. So, what do you think? Should Corbyn’s movement be taken seriously as a step to power for Labour? Has Corbyn come to represent an opening up of politics in Britain? Share your views in the comments.Finally, George Monbiot has said the only way to save life on Earth is by no fracking, drilling or digging. He argued that the Paris climate change agreement is worthless unless we stop developing all new fossil fuel reserves.No fracking, drilling or digging: it’s the only way to save life on Earth | George Monbiot Read the full article here. Their [governments] choices are as follows. First: a gradual, managed decline of existing production and its replacement with renewable energy and low-carbon infrastructure, which offer great potential for employment. Second: allowing fossil fuel production to continue at current rates for a while longer, followed by a sudden and severe termination of the sector, with dire consequences for both jobs and economies. Third: continuing to produce fossil fuels as we do today, followed by climate breakdown. Why is this a hard choice to make?What are your views on fracking? Is this a disaster waiting to happen? How do we exist without fossil fuels? How can we really tackle climate change? Share your views in the comments below.This page will be updated throughout the morning with new articles for discussion. Get involved below the line now.