Most of the time, you know exactly where you are with seasonal films. Go to see a Christmas movie and you can guarantee that, by the end of it, you will be suffocated in fake snow and sentimentality. Easter films, admittedly, are slightly more diffuse – they’ll either be insufferable cartoons about wisecracking rabbits or upsettingly grisly torture-porn flicks about the graphic crucifixion of a hippy – but you still broadly know what to expect. And then there’s Mother’s Day.Now, nobody takes their mum to the cinema on Mother’s Day. This is because your mum only wants to spend the day doing one of two things. If you’re an adult, she wants to spend some time with you for a change. And, if you’re a child, she wants to spend some time away from you for a change. A trip to the cinema occupies a weird “alone together” hinterland that satisfies neither of these urges.Which is probably for the best because, when it comes to films about mums, all bets are off. The world of cinema is littered with incredibly inappropriate mum films. If you really must watch a film with your mother this weekend, please don’t make it any of these:      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Austrian horror film Goodnight Mommy – in British cinemas just in time for Mother’s Day. Photograph: Films Distribution/Allstar/Films DistributionGoodnight Mommy (2014)There is, of course, a time and a place to watch an Austrian horror movie about a terrifyingly disfigured mother who eats cockroaches, even if it’s so drenched in constant unease that one reviewer called it “pure nightmare fuel”. However, that time and place probably isn’t this Sunday, because your mum probably just wants a box of Dairy Milk and some M&S flowers. However, the film is released in UK cinemas today.Moebius (2014)A woman catches her husband cheating on her and attempts to cut off his genitals. When that fails, she finds her son and cuts off his genitals instead. Then she eats them. This counts for roughly the first three minutes of Kim Ki-duk’s film, and things only get more upsetting from there. Just the fact that you’re still considering watching it with your mother absolutely makes you a terrible human being.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Faye Dunaway as Joan Crawford and Mara Hobel as her daughter Christina in Mommie Dearest. Photograph: Sportsphoto Ltd/AllstarMa Mère (2004)Remember when you were 14, and you were watching TV with your mum, and a sex scene unexpectedly came on, and the shame and embarrassment you both felt ended up causing all manner of long-lasting psychological scars? This film is pretty much one long sex scene, and it’s about a mother and her son, and watching it with your own mother absolutely isn’t worth the decades of therapy bills. Again, this one was actually released to coincide with Mother’s Day in the UK.Mommie Dearest (1981) Admittedly, unless your mum makes a habit of bursting into your bedroom late at night and screaming about the obscenity of wire coathangers, you’ll both probably feel better about your relationship after watching Joan Crawford biopic Mommie Dearest together. But you will still have to watch Mommie Dearest together, and life’s too short.Mother’s Day (1980)A needlessly grisly Texas Chainsaw Massacre knock-off, where a group of young girls are variously beaten, raped and murdered by a group of rednecks led by what Roger Ebert called “a demented old woman”. You could have just taken your mum to Beefeater, you idiot. You could have made her a card.I’m Not Jesus Mommy (2010)“Your worst sin was creating me,” a little boy cloned from the Turin Shroud tells his mother as a series of plagues sweep across the world. “God will never forgive you.” You’d assume that, if this kid really was Jesus, he’d be able to magic himself up some basic acting skills. But, no.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Watching We Need to Talk About Kevin, with Tilda Swinton, will just make you feel bad. Photograph: Nicole RivelliWe Need to Talk About Kevin (2011)This is what will happen if you watch We Need to Talk About Kevin with your mum: you’ll catch her nodding at the bit where Tilda Swinton pushes her pram out into the roadworks. Then, at the end, she’ll turn to you and say: “This is exactly why we never bought you an archery set,” and you’ll just feel really lousy about yourself.Mother, Jugs and Speed (1976)Now, this film has absolutely nothing to do with mothers. It’s a forgotten 1976 comedy about the complicated lives of three paramedics, named Mother, Jugs and Speed. So why shouldn’t you watch this with your mum on Sunday? Because the role of Mother happens to be played by Bill Cosby, so watching this will bum you out even more than the film about the woman who eats her son’s willy.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mother’s ruin: Jennifer Aniston and Kate Hudson in Mother’s Day. Photograph: Ron BatzdorffMother’s Day (2016)By some distance the least appealing film on the list, and it hasn’t even been released yet (it’s to tie in with Mother’s Day in the US, which comes two months after the UK version). Loved Garry Marshall’s Valentine’s Day and New Year’s Eve films? Want to watch another nightmarish sub-Love Actually portmanteau comedy about the frothy non-problems of several dozen rich white people? What if I told you that this one was all about the eternal magic of twinkle-eyed mothers? What if I told you that Jack Whitehall was in it? You still want to see it? I guarantee you were an accident.