When we were at school, we were told that disruptive behaviour was a bad thing. Instead, like Confucius, one had to aim for harmony. But now, everywhere I go, I hear about how entrepreneurs are planning to disrupt various industries. Disruption, it seems, is cool.Uber, for example, has successfully disrupted the taxi industry. The hotel industry has been disrupted by Airbnb. The handyman industry has been disrupted by TaskRabbit. The music industry has been disrupted by Apple and Spotify.Over a thousand Rio taxi drivers block main city route to protest Uber Amazon, as we all know, disrupted the publishing industry. Here was a nice old-fashioned business with quirky bookshops and some quaint ordering and distribution systems. The Amazonians, led by Jeff Bezos, disrupted all of that, with low prices and hyper-efficient service. The result was that the independent bookshops closed down and authors became poor. Then Amazon went on to disrupt the entire mail-order industry, and then the whole world.Journalism disrupted itself: the proprietors of the magazines and newspapers just slashed fees.Now the geeks are looking around for any old industry to disrupt. The laundry industry, I was told the other day, is going to be disrupted. I suppose that makes sense: launderettes look a little old school these days. The men’s tailoring industry has been disrupted already. And I met some earnest young geeks last week who said they were going to disrupt the live events industry by becoming the Uber of live events. The geeks are looking around for any old industry to disrupt. The laundry industry, I'm told, is next The trick, if you want to raise cash for your disruptive idea, seems to be take an industry – for example, handmade sweets, lawn mowers or carpentry – say you are going to disrupt it, and add that you are the Uber or Airbnb of it. Global domination awaits.This process of disruption is nothing new. In the old days, the illuminated manuscripts industry was disrupted by the printing press, and the illuminators complained bitterly. The monk industry was disrupted by the Reformation. Later, the weaving industry was disrupted by the spinning jenny (though now the fashion industry is being disrupted by a company that wants you to make your clothes at home, so we go full circle).The people who get disrupted always whinge, but the disruption seems to happen anyway. The question is whether these disruptions create more individual liberty, or simply lead to the creation of a handful of ruthless global monopolies, such as Amazon and Uber.I’ve been trying to think of how I could get in on the act and find an industry I could disrupt but, so far, I have drawn a blank. What about the tea towel industry? Those guys have become a bit smug lately. Shoes? The socks industry? The cakes industry? Or has that been disrupted already? Maybe we need a magazine called Disruption Today, which will track industries that have been disrupted, how the disruption is generally going for them, and suggest new as yet undisrupted areas of industry.Creative self-disruption (or how to adapt to rapid business change) I suppose you could argue that we at the Idler are disrupting the education industry, by putting courses and books in the hands of the people, but it doesn’t feel like disruption, more like creation.Upon reflection, I think it’s perhaps wise not to try to make a career of disruption, because he who disrupts may in turn be disrupted (please someone send me a good Latin translation of that aphorism).Instead, be creative. Make something unique. That way, you can stand up to the geeks and say with total confidence: “disrupt this, motherfucker!”