Mass surveillance ruled out as BBC iPlayer loophole closes Why has it been made compulsory made compulsory to for people to pay a TV licence if they watch BBC catchup content?The BBC claims it is facing a shortfall of around £150m this financial year due to more households than expected saying they do not have a TV and thus do not need a TV licence. Before 1 September, only people watching or recording live TV, on any device, had to pay for one.While the total number of TV-owning households is still rising, it is not doing so in line with increases in population, and that has thrown off the BBC’s calculations, leading to the shortfall.Why was a licence not needed for catch-up in the first place?The current legislation governing TV licences was originally part of the 2003 Communications Act; the iPlayer was not launched until 2007. In recent years more people have shifted to catch-up and online viewing, making rules written more than a decade ago even more outdated.While the average person in the UK still spends about 80% of their viewing time watching live or recorded TV, that figure is falling. Among younger generations the average is less than half that, and increasing numbers are not watching (or recording) live TV at all.How does a TV licence work if I’m watching iPlayer on my phone?This is where the rules get a little strange. Most of the time, if you are watching iPlayer on any portable device (a laptop, smartphone or tablet), no matter where you are, you need a license covering your permanent address.But if you plug in that device, then the home or other building you are plugging it into must be covered by a licence. This is most relevant for students living in halls: if they want to watch iPlayer on a device without plugging it in, then they would normally be covered by their parents’ licence. But as soon as they begin charging, they need a separate one covering their own room at university.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A screenshot of the new iPlayer licence prompt. Photograph: BBC iPlayer/PAHow can they tell if someone is watching iPlayer?There has been extensive and wild speculation about how the BBC intends to enforce the new rules. One article claimed that a fleet of BBC vans “will fan out across the country capturing information to ‘sniff out’ those who have not paid the licence fee” by monitoring traffic going over Wi-Fi networks.The BBC and TV Licensing have flat-out denied they plan to monitor Wi-Fi networks, or that they will carry out any mass surveillance. However, by refusing to reveal how they are going to catch people not paying their licence, both organisations have left room for further speculation and sensational stories about auntie spying on iPlayer users.The truth is likely to be far less interesting. The BBC has long had powers to carry out targeted surveillance on those it thinks are dodging the licence fee under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act, which is used by other organisations including the police. That means it’s far more likely to be someone with a set of binoculars peering in your window to catch you watching iPlayer (which is authorised through Ripa) than some high-tech solution for tapping into your internet connection (which isn’t authorised by anything).So will the new rules make a difference?The big question for the BBC is whether those people who were justifying not buying a TV licence because they didn’t watch any live content will now decide to pay up. As TV Licensing said on the day the new rules were introduced, they “expect that most people will simply obey the law”.Yet under the existing rules, many don’t, and in 2015 Ministry of Justice records show more than 166,000 people were issued with fines for TV licence evasion. Few of those fines will be the result of any kind of active surveillance – most of them go to people who have failed to give a convincing case for not needing a licence.However, the deliberate vagueness about the techniques they have used to catch some people is designed to make people decide it is not worth the risk.Why not just get people to put in their licence fee number to watch iPlayer?This is the most obvious solution. However, while the corporation is thinking about making the iPlayer sign-in only, there are no plans to link it to the licence fee or an address, which would make it relatively simple to work out who is watching without paying.One argument against linking the two is that it would move the BBC closer to an online subscription service similar to Netflix or Amazon, something critics of the licence fee support. But the BBC’s output is very different to online streaming services – the latter do not, for instance, include news bulletins – and such a move would make it more difficult to finance output such as radio and digital news, which don’t currently require a licence.iPlayer licence rules have changed – but there's one loophole left for students What will happen to the licence fee in the future?The BBC will have its royal charter renewed at the end of the year, and has agreed a funding deal with government stretching until 2020. This will see the licence fee increase with inflation, so the system looks stable for the foreseeable future.But the debate about the new rules has brought to the fore questions about a system of funding that was designed for a world where there was only one broadcaster.For instance, technically, someone watching ITV or Channel 4 on a TV still needs a licence, but that is not true if they watch on-demand services direct from either provider. And with more and more on-demand TV available, the number of people who can legitimately claim to not watch any BBC content is likely to grow.If it grows large enough, the BBC will have a hard time justifying the licence fee. It could either embrace a subscription model and risk losing its special status as a national broadcaster, or it could convince the government that it deserves a new model for funding that preserves its independence. Neither prospect will be particularly appealing to the corporation.This article was amended on 6 September 2016 to remove a reference to the BBC making a licence fee compulsory for iPlayer users. This was done under government legislation