Cinnamon is such a beauty of a spice that you don’t usually think of it taking a backseat in a dish: you want it up front – the swirl in your pastry, the flurry on your crepe, the quill in your vat of mulled wine. But, for all its star qualities, it can do wonders without drawing attention to itself – much like lemon. Your recipes proved that point. It brings depth to the pork, warmth to a curd, draws the pudding’s many ingredients together, lifts the cake. It isn’t the hero in any of these dishes, but each dish would be markedly duller without it.The winning recipe: Thai slow-cooked pork belly and eggs with cinnamonRachel Kelly’s kai po lo is the dish that most forcibly challenges my resolve to eat less meat. The flavours are maddeningly good, the meat melting and the spiced sauce a perfect dressing for a bowl of white rice. Replacing the pork with cubes of firm tofu will obviously remove the fat that makes the dish so rich, but the flavours will still be there. A slow-cooked wonder either way, to be sure.Food in books: cinnamon French toast from The Borrowers Serves 41kg pork belly, cut into 3-4cm chunks3 tbsp light soy sauce2 tbsp dark soy sauce1 cinnamon stick (about 6cm long)2 tsp ground cinnamon1 tbsp black peppercorns, crushed 1 tbsp vegetable oil6-8 garlic cloves, peeled and chopped5 cloves2 star anise4 coriander roots, crushed2 tsp light brown or palm sugar500ml chicken stock 400ml water (plus extra if necessary)4-8 hardboiled eggs, peeled1 Combine the soy sauces, cinnamon and peppercorns. Add the pork and stir well. Refrigerate for at least 2 hours (or overnight).2 Gently heat the oil in a large, lidded saucepan or wok. Fry the garlic for 2 minutes, or until beginning to colour.3 Drain the pork (reserving the marinade), then add to the pan and fry until lightly coloured. Add the marinade with the cloves, star anise, coriander roots and sugar. Stir well to combine.4 Add the chicken stock and enough water to cover the pork by about 2cm. Bring to the boil, then simmer (with the lid on) for about 1 hour. Add more stock or water, if needed.5 Add the hardboiled eggs. Continue to simmer for another 45 minutes.6 Remove the meat and eggs. Reduce the liquid until thickened, then return the meat and eggs to the pot. Serve with steamed rice or noodles.Orange and cinnamon curdLauren Kisby pairs this with blueberries on French toast. I tried it on toasted brioche, and quite a bit of it straight from the jar. Beautifully aromatic.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lauren Kisby’s cinnamon and orange curd. Photograph: Lauren Kisby/GuardianWitnessMakes 2 small jars200-250ml orange juice2 cinnamon sticks4 large eggsZest of 2 large oranges150g sugar100g butter, cut into small cubes1 Simmer the juice and cinnamon in a small saucepan for 20-30 minutes, until the juice is fragrant with cinnamon. Reserve the cinnamon sticks. Set the juice aside to cool. Measure the juice: top up with extra juice if needed.2 Whisk the juice and eggs well. Mix the zest through the sugar, then add to the egg and juice mixture and stir well.3 Put the mixture in a bain marie above a just-simmering pan of water. The temperature must be low to ensure the eggs don’t scramble.4 Add the butter. Whisk constantly for 15-20 minutes, or until the mixture is thick and creamy and coats the back of a wooden spoon. Decant into sterilised jars, placing one stick in each jar. Leave to cool and then store in the fridge.Noah’s puddingFadime Tiskaya’s Kurdish sweet is also known as eşûre – pronounced “ashura” – which comes from Hebrew and Arabic, meaning the 10th day, when Noah’s Ark came to rest on Mount Ararat (among other traditions).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fadime’s Eşûre (Ashura) or Noah’s pudding ‘is a bit like an eastern mince pie filling’ as one of the Cook staff remarked. Photograph: Fadime Tiskaya/GuardianWitnessMany cultures have different versions of this pudding throughout the Middle East. This is the Kurdish version of this dish, but there are as many versions of this ancient dish as there are regions, some limiting the number of ingredients to a symbolic 10, others including up to 40. The citrus peel and cinnamon make of this dried fruit, nut and pulse fest a Middle Eastern take on mincemeat.Serves 6-850g dry chickpeas (or 95g tinned)50g dry haricot beans (or 95g tinned)120g dehusked wheat or pearl barley1 cinnamon stick70g blanched almonds70g blanched hazelnuts70g walnuts, chopped60g sultanas60g dried apricots5 dried figs Juice and peel of 2 clementines100g grape molasses 150g sugar To garnishWalnuts, choppedDried apricots, choppedFigs, chopped1 Soak the chickpeas and beans in one pot and the barley in another, for at least 5-6 hours, preferably overnight.2 Put the beans and chickpeas in a large pan. Cover with water. Cook for 30 minutes or until almost soft.3 Add the barley and cinnamon. Cook for 10 minutes, or until the barley is almost soft. (Add more boiling water if needed.) Add the nuts, fruits, juice and peel. Cook for 10-15 minutes or until everything is soft and tender.4 Stir in the molasses and sugar. Cook for 10 minutes. Set aside to cool. Discard the cinnamon and peel, if you wish. Sprinkle with walnuts, apricot and figs. Serve at room temperature or chilled.Cinnamon apple tahini cakeA scented, vegan, bread-like cake from TheWholeIngredient that is a little dense when freshly baked – but that’s nothing that some CoYo can’t fix. And days-old slices, toasted till crisp and slathered with cashew nut butter, are perfect.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   TheWholeIngredient posted this pic of her cinnamon apple tahini cake with a cider toffee sauce. Photograph: TheWholeIngredient/GuardianWitnessServes 6-85 braeburn apples 1 tsp lemon juice1 tsp cinnamon For the cake170g wholemeal flour55g ground almonds50g walnuts, chopped4 medjool dates, pitted and chopped2 tsp cinnamon1 tsp ginger½ tsp nutmeg1 tsp baking powderA pinch of good salt4 tbsp tahini1 tbsp coconut oil90ml unsweetened soy milk1 Set the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4. Core and chop three apples. Cover with water and boil for 5-10 minutes until soft, then drain. Puree until soft.2 Core and dice 1 apple. Core and slice the last one, coating both with the lemon juice and cinnamon in a bowl.3 Sift the flour and stir in the rest of the dry ingredients. Rub in the tahini and oil using your fingers until crumbly. Mix in the apple puree, soy milk and chopped apple.4 Line a 18cm springform cake tin with parchment. Fill with the cake mix. Arrange the sliced apples on top.5 Cook for 50 minutes, or until a skewer comes out clean. If the top gets too brown, cover with parchment.• This article was amended on 14 November 2016. An earlier version said Fadime Tiskaya’s sweet – eşûre – was Turkish; it is a Kurdish name.