Be careful what you ask John Goodman, who stars in Kong: Skull Island. What started as an innocuous question at San Diego Comic-Con on Saturday, about reviving a classic movie franchise, was turned into an impressive comic riff about working with one of the biggest stars around.Game of Thrones cast pressed for season seven spoilers at Comic-Con event “You always had to call him Kong or Mr Kong. You couldn’t call him by his name, which is Leo,” a stone-faced Goodman recalled in a panel in Comic-Con’s voluminous Hall H. “But when the chips are down he’s a hell of a performer. He’s got the goods. He’s earned the right to be a little cranky. He was always 20 minutes late for make-up, but he was never drunk on set. “You’d hear stories about riding on the top of taxicabs or chartering boats and putting it on the company, but he turned out to be an OK guy. He won’t do press, though. He won’t ever do press.”The second half of the Warner Bros presentation, after more than an hour addressing movies based on comic books, opened with a panel on the reinvented King Kong franchise, featuring Goodman, the director Jordan Vogt-Roberts, Brie Larson and the belle of the Comic-Con ball, Tom Hiddleston, best known as Loki in the Marvel Comics movies.“Thank you, ma’am, for that,” Hiddleston said to an unseen audience member who yelled at him as he took the stage. “I love you, too.”The cast took a few quick questions, including one from a young woman who wanted to know what the actors did when they needed to unwind. Goodman’s deadpan won the day again. “I like to watch Roseanne and say the lines before the characters,” he said.Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eddie Redmayne hands out wands to the audience. Photograph: Chris Pizzello/Invision/APComic-Con International: costumed fans invade San Diego – in pictures The hall was impatient for the next film instalment in JK Rowling’s Harry Potter franchise, Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them. The director, David Yates, described a new monster able to grow to any size; the lead performer, Eddie Redmayne, ran up and down the aisles handing out wands to fans.Like a sportscaster, the panel host, Conan O’Brien, announced Redmayne’s movements throughout Hall H. Women in period dress carried huge handbags filled with the wands.“Eddie Redmayne has gone into the crowd and is handing out wands to everybody in the hall,” O’Brien riffed. “This is unprecedented.”The actor Alison Sudol said she was pleased the film had an American setting. “Imagine that you think that world is done and then you get to walk into it and it’s in 1926 in New York and it’s the American version,” she said.Ezra Miller, who also plays the Flash in the Warner Bros Justice League film, agreed: “It’s like getting your Hogwarts letter way late in the game.”The forum had one awkward moment. Asked about Colleen Atwood’s costumes by a man dressed as George III from the musical Hamilton, Dan Fogler headed for spoiler territory: “I remember looking around Macusa and there’s a scene… ” He was cut off by Yates.“A hole’s going to open up in the floor underneath you,” O’Brien warned.Other castmates pitched in with non-spoilerish memories. “She looks at you and knows your sizes immediately. It’s completely next level,” said Miller, of Atwood.“It’s like you’re a piece of meat,” joked Colin Farrell, who plays a wizard named Graves. “It’s not really about you, but you’re kind of OK with that.”