Inside the Factory 8pm, BBC2Brits get through more than two million tins of baked beans a day. This latest episode of Gregg Wallace and Cherry Healey’s series – exploring the process by which industrially produced food reaches our plates – tracks the undeniably spectacular techniques involved. It feels a little basic at times (“Beans begin life in a pod,” explains Wallace at one point) but some neat history segments – including the class trajectory of canned food – raise the tone. An amiable enough watch. Phil HarrisonAn Hour To Save Your Life9pm, BBC2Return of the series that illuminates what paramedics and doctors call “the golden hour” – the 60 minutes immediately following a major trauma in which responders must make literal life and death decisions. This episode focuses, with an intimacy that can make for difficult viewing, on a moped rider hit by a lorry, a police officer suffering a heart attack in a gym, and a bicycle accident in a dauntingly remote location. Andrew MuellerThe Job Interview 9pm, Channel 4More hopefuls consent to having their job interview experience played out in front of a national audience. God help them. This week, car hire firm Planet Leasing, located in Leigh-on-Sea, Essex, has a sales opening, with 52-year-old Mark and 40-year-old Tina vying for the post. Mark has applied for more than 800 jobs, while Tina is a cleaner hoping to make a career change. Meanwhile, in London, PR agency Whitehair Co, which specialises in fashion, is seeking a new press assistant. Ben ArnoldFirst Dates 10pm, Channel 4After a celebrity spinoff that followed the likes of Scarlett from Gogglebox and Esther Rantzen on their searches for love, there’s something comforting about returning to the original First Dates, where jittery strangers occasionally get a piece of spinach stuck in their teeth. As ever-optimistic maître d’ Fred welcomes back the Jane and John Does of the dating world, among potential lovebirds on view are podiatrist Felicity and city boy Jethro, and pensioners Dee and Joe. Hannah J DaviesBorderline 10pm, Channel 5The comedy mockumentary series about security staff at Northend airport continues. Tonight, Chief Inspector Linda is distracted by her husband’s recent career change, a Ukrainian lingerie entrepreneur is pulled in on a “random” check, while Andy’s attempt to bond with a lively hen party reveals her fun side, sort of. A bit more signposting of forthcoming jokes than you might expect, perhaps, but the decent performances generally win out. John RobinsonWasted 10pm, E4 With its bickering cast of self-sabotaging slackers framed by lickety-split editing and 8-bit sound effects, this West Country-set sitcom feels like a rural offshoot of Spaced, with the added attraction of Sean Bean sending up his Westeros hinterland as a grumpy spirit guide. As the gang’s sleepy village of Neston Berry gears up for its annual Berry Man revels, D&D doughboy Morpheus is unexpectedly tapped to be the star of the show. Graeme VirtueDice 10.10pm, Sky AtlanticAndrew Dice Clay first achieved fame as the most obnoxious of a new wave of non-PC standups in the 1980s. In this new, middling, vaguely Curb Your Enthusiasm-style sitcom, Clay is reimagined as an ageing comedian now on his financial uppers, saddled with a bad reputation but insisting he’s not such a bad guy in “reality”. In the first of this double bill, he is guest at a gay wedding; in the second he is shadowed by Adrien Brody, who wants to research him for a film role. David StubbsFilm choiceChef (Jon Favreau, 2014) 9pm, Film4Jon Favreau takes time off from his Iron Man directing duties to serve up this light culinary tale, and as director, writer and star takes on most of the kitchen tasks himself. He plays chef Carl Casper, who, bored with dishing up the same-old for restaurant boss Dustin Hoffman, quits to start selling tacos from a Twitter-promoted truck, reconnecting with his son and attracting Scarlett Johansson and Sofia Vergara in the process. Enjoy! Paul HowlettOlympic choiceDavid Florence won gold in canoe slalom’s C1 event at both the 2013 and 2015 world championships and, having celebrated his 34th birthday yesterday, today he could claim his first Olympic title (7.15pm, BBC1). Equestrian’s three-day eventing competition reaches its climax (2pm, BBC1), while Clare Balding takes charge as we focus on the women’s team gymnastics (8pm, BBC1) with Team GB hoping to be among the medals. Amy Walker