It was past one o’clock on the Monday morning of last year’s Glastonbury, around the time thoughts usually turn to proper beds, showers, and drinking anything other than warm cider. But the sweat-slicked crowd squeezed into the Rabbit Hole didn’t want any of that. They wanted to hear En Vogue’s Don’t Let Go collide with King Crimson’s 21st Century Schizoid Man. They wanted Destiny’s Child’s Bootylicious segueing into Rage Against the Machine’s Killing in the Name. They wanted, as their full-throated chant put it: “Charlotte! Charlotte! Charlotte fucking Church!” The former child soprano’s Late Night Pop Dungeon is a riotous set that sees her cover an eclectic mix of disco hits, rock anthems and cult pop curios and is responsible for the most Church-based excitement since Martin Luther nailed the ninety-five theses to a door in 1517.Charlotte Church: ‘I love reggae in the morning’ Church, who takes her show on the road this month, has achieved the unlikely feat of making covers bands cool. She has found an audience who are happy to prioritise fun over getting hung up about authenticity – and she isn’t alone. While acts only playing other people’s songs were once considered barely a rung up from karaoke – acceptable only at weddings and bar mitzvahs – now the lineups of places such as London’s Jazz Cafe are packed with acts such as the Abstract Orchestra playing the music of J Dilla, or Talking Heads reimagined by the London Astrobeat Orchestra.Covers bands can also provide an opportunity to hear music that wouldn’t otherwise be performed. Even before his death in January this year, it was unlikely that reclusive Nigerian synth pioneer William Onyeabor would ever rock up at the Barbican. Instead, David Byrne pulled together a tribute band featuring Damon Albarn, Hot Chip’s Alexis Taylor and Pat Mahoney from LCD Soundsystem to bring Onyeabor’s music to an audience who could never have seen him play.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest David Byrne performs William Onyeabor’s music at the Royal Festival Hall in 2015.Perhaps this is the morbid secret of the recent success of cover acts. For the past 60-odd years we’ve assumed that most of the people who wrote and performed our favourite songs were still out there playing them. The deaths of Bowie, Prince and Chuck Berry remind us of the great inevitable. One day, not long from now, expecting classic pop songs to be performed by the original artists will be as absurd as kicking up a fuss because Mozart isn’t on hand to conduct The Magic Flute. Yet, in hearing songs played live, there is a sort of immortality. Chuck Berry may be gone, but as long as there are covers bands, Johnny B Goode will live for ever.Charlotte Church’s Late Night Pop Dungeon is touring to 12 May