My kitchen is … light, airy and uncluttered. The kitchen itself is quite small, but it shares the space with our living and dining areas; I love that I am able to potter around in the kitchen while the kids run in and out. The kitchen overlooks the luscious, native bush that surrounds our home in New Zealand. It’s a 1950’s beach house.My favourite kitchen tool is … my cast-iron skillet. It may seem like a bit of an old-fashioned choice, but I believe this dependable cookware is definitely a must in any modern kitchen. Given plenty of love and care, cast iron can become a quiet treasure on your stovetop that will last a lifetime and help you to create many, delicious meals.My storecupboard staple is … organic eggs. The humble egg can make a nutritious breakfast, lunch or dinner. It’s not surprising that our family of five enjoy two or three dozen a week.When I’m starving I ... make a little feast of toasted sourdough topped with avocado, finely sliced shallots, a drizzle of white balsamic vinegar, extra virgin olive oil, chilli flakes, cracked pepper and a flick of flaky sea salt.My culinary inspiration is … Nigel Slater and his marvellous way with words. Behind his carefully considered instructions are beautiful references to real life in the kitchen, and his recipes are dependable and delicious. I also love Amber Rose, and her nourishing baking. The heroes of her recipes are based around seasonal fruits, ancient flours and simple, wholesome ingredients.Will Bowlby's kitchen: 'People are nervous about cooking for me’ | Kitchen encounters My best-kept kitchen secret is…. to slow down and relax. Spending time in the kitchen should not only be about the end result, but the small, gentle, joyous moments along the way. There’s a certain beauty to the rhythm of cooking. The gentle drum of a knife, slicing beetroot on an old wooden board, hot oil in the pan, sizzling and shimmering among fragrant herbs, onions and a little garlic. These are simple, beautiful moments, easily lost, but certainly not ordinary.When I’m invited to dinner I always take … a beautifully arranged cheese platter, one with varying textures, colours and flavours. Not only are tasting platters relatively simple to throw together, they can also be a conversation piece for your guests. Most will dig in with gusto, sharing opinions about which cheese they like, and those they don’t.Everything tastes better with… butter. Even the smallest addition has the ability to make a dish truly sing.When I go shopping I … visit the local farmers’ market. It’s become a weekend ritual that inspires meals for the week ahead. Each Saturday morning, we wake early and hop in the car with a large bag waiting to be filled with locally-grown produce and beautiful, bright flowers. I believe it’s important to be mindful of where our food comes from, whether it be a beetroot from the garden or a jar of honey from a local beekeeper. Knowing where ingredients originate helps me to connect with the story behind what I choose to feed my family.For dinner tonight … I am making a rustic pie with buttery sour-cream pastry, filled with cauliflower, herbed béchamel sauce and creamy havarti cheese.Eleanor Ozich is a food blogger at petite-kitchen.com and a cookbook author. Her third book, Sweet Delights, is out now. Eleanor will be taking over the Cook instagram account this weekend. Follow @guardian_cook for updates.