ParisEvening frocks reserve to themselves the privilege of making innovations which need have neither rhyme nor reason. In a night, almost, they may become long or short; their waists may shuttle; their backs may disappear; their fronts may suggest a sore throat. They may have a great deal of stuff or hardly any.One point which does stand out, however, among the evening dresses of the last five years is the extra garment - the coat which has made evenings tolerable to old ladies, the wrap or cape or scarf which has added interest to evening dress and qualified lowness in general.Lowness indeed has ceased to be the chief feature of the recent evening dress. The Irene Dana evening frock of chiffon with large red and yellow flowers has an almost Greek top, the long open sleeves suggesting capes or draperies. The fit of the hips keeps the key of the moment, as does the sudden rush of fullness from the knees. This dress is modelled more or less on the lines of the natural figure, from which this designer is clever enough not to depart. Thus it keeps the right proportions and looks natural as well as slim.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Journalist Katharine Whitehorn (right) tries on an evening gown in a London shop, 1956. Photograph: Bert Hardy/Picture Post/Hulton Archive/GettyLine in general has not altered much during recent months. Change has taken place rather in accessories. Innumerable evening frocks retain the proceed to play variations upon it. A sheath of black satin, for instance, which readies to the ground but has no train, has long tulle sleeves, starting almost from the shoulder straps. It is lent background by means of a narrow tulle cape, which hangs down, but not over the shoulders, almost to the ground.There is the sheath which is lent a tailor-made appearance by means of a seam all down the front, and with a bodice rising in two points, as it were, to meet shoulder straps which are not there. Instead, the bodice is supported by means of whalebone. These strapless or sleeveless dresses are by their nature generally sheaths. They allow sometimes of tulle scarves or capes, or little wings on the back.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Manchester Guardian, 11 June 1934. Photograph: the guardian for the GuardianRead article in full.