There are days when I imagine myself as a smallholder. In my mind, I own a farm with old, stone walls and a red tiled roof. Around my perfect little farm the countryside rolls away in hues of amber and green. Near the house there’s a walled vegetable garden with rich, weed-free soil. In this perfect dream it is always summer – the days are long and lush and last forever. Just thinking of it now makes me let out a wistful sigh.But I know that there’s one glaring problem with this mental picture: I’m delusional.I blame John Steinbeck for my delusions. This is because there’s a good chance that the seeds of this idyllic rural life were sown in my mind by the novel Of Mice and Men. Most of us have read about the two ranch hands, George Milton and Lennie Small, in secondary school. Steinbeck’s novel captivated me then and still captivates me now. In the book, the two men want nothing more than to own their own farm and to “live off the fatta the lan’”. Long before John Seymour baited the general public with the Shangri-La of self-sufficiency, George and Lennie were wandering around the fields of California looking for a place to call their own. For a long time, I’ve been wandering with them.Before anyone jumps to the obvious joke, yes I am probably more like Lennie then George. However, I am smart enough at least to know this: gardening is not farming. The quest for a visually appealing space has little to do with the need to produce food. The utilitarian needs of farmers are a long way away from the aesthetic desires of gardeners. Therefore I do what most gardeners do – I have a vegetable patch where I can grow a few things while safely relying on those who actually know what they’re doing; the farmers.This spring however, my inner Lennie got the better of me. I bought chickens. My purchase wasn’t just on a whim; I had a space at the end of my garden; I researched the cost and equipment necessary to keep three chickens; I learned about their needs and requirements and how to keep them healthy. Still, I felt apprehensive when we drove to a local farm and arrived back home with our three new hens. I wondered if I’d made the right decision.The first night I introduced the hens to their new home, I was nervous. We have foxes in our neighbourhood, and I was worried that they’d swarm on the coop in some kind of feeding frenzy the moment they smelt the birds. That first night I tiptoed, slippers wet from the lawn, several times back and forth to the henhouse to make sure the girls were okay. The next morning, when all three chickens emerged from their house alive, I was relieved. To top it all off, later that morning we had our first egg. My daughter was ecstatic. We took a picture (yes, of an egg). I felt as if my dream of owning a farm was just that little bit closer.That first week my wife joked that we should name the smallest chicken, who is all brown, Nugget. I laughed and suggested that the other two might be called Kiev and Tonight. As the days passed, and no new names were put forward, the joke stuck. We now have three chickens who go by the names of Tonight, Kiev, and Nugget. Luckily, my daughter is too young to understand the implications.So, what have I learned from my little smallholding? Chickens like to peck each other. It’s called feather pecking and it often a sign of boredom. I’ve tried putting treats and toys inside the run for entertainment; it didn’t work. One of my hens ended up with a completely featherless backside. My only choice was to isolate the offending chicken, which meant extending the run.Anti-peck sprays don’t work. I sprayed and, while it made my hands and shoes stink, it did little to stop the pecking.Fresh eggs taste amazing.Don’t let a chicken near newly sown vegetables. I turned my back one day for the briefest of moments, and my hens had completely mown down a bed of newly sprouted cabbages.Kids love chickens. My daughter loves to run out and collect the eggs at the end of the day and my son is fascinated by them.If you don’t clean out the coop at least once a week the smell becomes really unpleasant. I missed a week and the smell was pungent. In a small garden this could be a problem.Chickens are fast. The first time I let them out I had no idea how to get them back in the run. I succeeded in herding them into the run using, among other things, a hose, a bean pole, some netting, and a bed sheet. It took about an hour.At the end of a long day it is really satisfying to watch the hens peck about on the grass. They are curious animals and are quite funny.They can scratch. If you look at a hens feet you are reminded that they’re related to dinosaurs. Don’t let them get their claws into you.They love slugs and are good at cleaning the soil. If you don’t mind your herbaceous perennials getting knocked around a bit, hens are a good organic solution to pest control.After a summer with three chickens I suppose the obvious question is this: am I glad I did it? Am I glad I indulged my desire for a piece of country living? The answer is yes. I like strolling out in morning and letting the hens out and it’s still fun to go and collect the eggs for cooking. And yes, I like watching the hens wander around the garden. But no, I don’t have any plans yet to “live off the fatta the lan’”.