On Tuesday, the University of Edinburgh finally reached a decision on whether to remove its financial assets from fossil fuel companies. It was the wrong one. In a decision best described as cowardly, my university turned its back on the global fight against climate change, and on its own proud past of innovation and morality.Edinburgh never fails to trumpet its proud history of contribution to the world through intellectual titans such as David Hume. Sadly, it has chosen to ignore the moral aspect of fossil fuel divestment in its decision.With the third-largest university endowment fund in the UK, of £292m, the university could have led the way in the divestment fight; piling pressure on the likes of Oxford and Cambridge to follow suit. Instead it chose to shy away from responsibility; to pick pragmatism over morality and special interests over the future of the environment. As it is, the university has chosen to be a laggard rather than a leader.The decision was all the more disappointing because the mood music ahead of it had been more positive. On 10 May the university postponed its divestment decision. The Fossil Fuels Review Group, headed by senior vice-principal Prof Charlie Jeffery, along with the Central Management Group seemed to be on course to divesting only from coal and tar sands. This version of divestment-lite falls short of where many of us - students and faculty alike - had hoped they would end up. But Tuesday’s announcement falls short even of this weak target. The press release accompanying the decision noted two conditions for considering divestment from coal and tar sands:  when “realistic alternative sources of energy are available”  “if the companies involved are not investing in technologies that help address the effects of carbon emissions and climate change” These risibly malleable criteria for even the most basic form of divestment highlights what many of the Grassroots campaigners have feared. While keen to show they are listening, the University of Edinburgh appears to have shown little understanding of the urgency required in tackling climate change. Instead, it appears intent on pandering to the special interests of the fossil fuel companies linked with the School of Engineering.   Chasing funds has become an unfortunate part of modern academic institutions - Edinburgh is by no means the only guilty culprit - and has stymied the challenging of powerful interests for fear of financial retribution.  At the heart of the decision is a deeply contradictory message. The university is supposed to be preparing me for my future, but at the same time it is putting that future in jeopardy. The divestment movement is on the march, with the likes of the Guardian’s Keep it in the Ground Campaign and 350.org leading the way, armed with science and the moral high ground. The University of Edinburgh has made its decision and chosen to stand on what is sure to be the wrong side of history. It has passed up an opportunity to lead; to inspire its students; to show that ethics and morality play just as an important part in decision making as financial pragmatism. It has failed. Instead it shall be dragged to divest – by necessity rather than choice – the opportunity to be at the vanguard of change passed.