In recent weeks, a list of 26 celebrated London nightclubs that have closed their doors has circulated the internet and social media, to much wailing and gnashing of teeth. “Completely unacceptable,” thundered Metro.The list is actually slightly misleading. Some of the clubs on it closed decades ago – evidence not of a vast conspiracy to denude London of its edgy nightlife for the benefit of chain restaurants and luxury-flat developers, but of the fact that the natural, healthy state for dance music and club culture is constant forward motion: like the music and its audience, venues shift and change over time.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: UIG via Getty ImagesIndeed, perhaps the most striking thing about the list is that none of clubs on it attracted as much attention for their closure as Fabric has. The celebrated Clerkenwell venue Turnmills certainly went out with a suitably hedonistic bang when the lease on the building that housed it expired in 2008 – the final night of legendary Saturday gay club Trade went on until 6pm on Sunday evening – but there were no global campaigns to halt its closure, no angry articles in broadsheet newspapers; the London mayor was untroubled by pressing questions regarding his thoughts on the matter. Fabric’s closure has occasioned all these things and more, up to and including a website live-blogging the Islington Council review of its licence.Fabric: London nightclub to close permanently after licence is revoked That’s partly down to the sense that London’s club scene is in peril. If the list circulating on social media slightly overstates the case, then there’s still something hugely depressing about the photos you can find online of the former sites of so many celebrated clubs with something vastly less interesting in their place: derelict buildings, offices, a branch of Superdrug. “This isn’t really about drugs or door searches, [it’s] another step towards a city full of extortionate empty properties and privatised space,” as DJ, producer and boss of dance label Night Slugs Bok Bok put it.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Clubbers at DTPM at Fabric, London, UK, 2001. Photograph: PYMCA/UIG via Getty ImagesBut mostly it’s because it was Fabric. The sense of disbelief among DJs and clubbers that its licence has been revoked might have something to do with the fact that Fabric was a nightclub that thrived against the odds. It was a 2,500-capacity venue – with three areas, a state-of-the-art soundsystem and dancefloors equipped with “tactile transducers” that caused them to vibrate in time to the music – that opened in 1999, just before the clubbing bubble of the 1990s burst. While all around it, “superclubs” were being forced to scale down operations, Fabric built itself into a globally recognised brand, with two long-running series of mix CDs – the house/techno based Fabric and the more eclectic FabricLive – and a separate artist-led label, Houndstooth.“As an American in Kentucky, the Fabric [mix albums] were my window to the world,” tweeted US DJ The Black Madonna last night. It had faced closure before – in 2010, it went into administration after its owners got into financial difficulties with another venue, Matter, housed inside the O2 – but survived. Given the public outcry, the support of London’s mayor and the club’s offers to voluntarily trial sniffer dogs at the doors and even lower the BPM of music played on a Friday night, surely it would survive again?       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Soulwax. Fabric Nightclub, Farringdon, London. Photograph: PYMCA/UIG via Getty ImagesBut it hasn’t, which leaves a gaping hole in London nightlife. Fabric’s ethos frequently looked like a deliberate reaction to the depressing excesses of 90s superclubs. It succeeded because it put music first, rather than giving the impression that music was getting in the way of the more pressing business of flogging people branded clothing, exercise DVDs and hi-fi equipment. Its nights were never about attracting custom by way of the most glamorous superstar DJ names, but about booking DJs who were interesting, groundbreaking, ahead of the curve. That may be precisely the kind of policy that’s prevailed in umpteen smaller clubs, but Fabric proved it could work on a much larger scale: if 90s superclubs had showed a marked tendency to treat clubbers as if they were a boggle-eyed bovine mass, Fabric behaved as though they were discerning and knowledgeable. It was a smart move: playing there developed a prestige of its own, as did contributing to its mix CD series.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: PYMCA/UIG via Getty ImagesThe latter recordings were not attempts to cram in as many big tunes as possible, but to allow respected DJs to do exactly what they wanted, with frequently spectacular results. Some treated them less like compilations than solo albums: most famously, minimal techno pioneer Ricardo Villalobos filled his 2007 Fabric mix with entirely unreleased productions of his own; last year, Mumdance – another DJ who took to Twitter to express his dismay at the club’s closure in forthright terms – specially commissioned most of the contents of his FabricLive mix, painting a fascinating portrait of UK bass music.What happened to the great London nightclubs? You could tell how much impact and importance Fabric has had across the spectrum of dance music just from the array of artists and DJs lining up to pay tribute to the club – everyone from Katy B to Carl Craig, Holly Herndon to Hudson Mohawke. Among them, Jackmaster struck a hopeful note: “I guarantee everyone they’ll be back,” he wrote. You have to hope he’s right. Fabric was a club that worked for the right reasons: it never underestimated its audience and it never underestimated dance music. 