Robin Gill (Letters, 25 April) queries my comments about EU decision-making in relation to TTIP – the trade negotiations between the EU and the US. However, the European commission can only negotiate on the basis of the public mandate it has received from EU governments. TTIP can only enter into force if EU governments and the European parliament agree. Furthermore, the commission has given much evidence on its negotiations, including to the House of Lords – evidence that is publicly available. It cannot impose an agreement or bypass elected governments.Joyce QuinLabour, House of Lords• Nicky Morgan tells MPs she will “finish this job” (Council-run schools ‘beat academies in Ofsted inspections’, 26 April). Really? Such an undemocratic approach; such an autocratic and threatening tone; such unwillingness to listen… Let’s hope it doesn’t follow the same path as the job Jeremy Hunt is trying to finish!Liz MilesWelton, Northamptonshire• Theresa May says that Britain should withdraw from the European convention on human rights (Report, 26 April). What does she want to do that the ECHR forbids?Mary HaywardFareham, Hampshire• Patrick Baker (“A full page of puzzles and still no chess”, Letters, 23 April) should count himself lucky. At least he has chess on Saturday. We bridge players are now totally ignored. The Guardian is the only quality paper that no longer caters for us. Some unmentionables even have a daily column. All we seek is something weekly. Not so much to ask, is it?Ian PhillipsLondon• Nick Brannon’s sentiments (Letters, 23 April) are clearly shared by the team at SpaceX – the shipborne landing platform for the Falcon 9 rocket was named Just Read the Instructions, and its predecessor Of Course I Still Love You, both names taken from craft in Iain M Banks’s Culture series.Owen Sedgwick-JellManchester• Keith Flett (Letters, 26 April) misunderstands capitalism. His productivity would improve, to the benefit of us all, if he could say the same thing but with 5% fewer words, not 5% more.Nick MichaelsLondon • Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com