It’s unusual to have five Twitter accounts. Especially if you’ve been dead for 170 years. But my great-great-great grandmother, Fanny Mendelssohn, was an unusual woman, and even today she inspires extraordinary passions. In her lifetime, despite a crooked back and thick spectacles, she was adored for her musicality and warmth, but feared for her fierce intellect (so unfeminine!) and general intolerance of amateurism.Fanny was three years older than her brother Felix, and, until he was 20 and she 23, they were inseparable. They learned composition together, showed each other their work before anybody else, and only trusted each other’s opinions.But this equality couldn’t last. When Fanny was 14 she played, by heart, all of Bach’s Preludes and Fugues for her father’s birthday (that is a lot of music, but they were that sort of family). His response was, in effect: “Very nice, dear, but don’t forget you’re a girl, so you can forget about taking this stuff up publicly.”On 4 April 1829, Felix set off on a grand tour to hear, play and be inspired by all the music of Europe – and remember, the only way to hear music then was to be present when it was performed. Fanny stayed home, preparing to marry a man she hadn’t seen for seven years, the painter Wilhelm Hensel. As in a fairytale, Wilhelm, having fallen in love with Fanny, was sent away until he could prove himself able to keep a wife. And, as in a fairytale, this man, ridiculed by the Mendelssohns for his slow wits and inability to hold a tune, turned out to be the hero. He said he wouldn’t marry Fanny unless she carried on composing; and every morning of their marriage, before he went off to paint, he would put a piece of blank manuscript paper on her music stand and tell her he wanted to see it filled up when he returned.So, Fanny composed. She couldn’t help it. She was a creative artist like her brother, driven to write music, live and breathe it, and use it to express whatever happened to her. She wrote her own wedding music, the night before the ceremony, when Felix failed to deliver on his promise to do so. She nursed the family through a cholera epidemic, then wrote a Cholera Cantata when it was all over. Felix knew her music was good. In fact, he published some of her songs under his own name, which led to red faces in front of Queen Victoria when he asked her which of his songs she liked best and it turned out to be one of Fanny’s. But Felix wouldn’t give her his blessing to publish, and without it, she couldn’t nerve herself to do so. So for 15 years, she wrote music she knew she’d only ever hear in her own home. To other female composers, Felix was encouraging, getting them funding and even, in Clara Schumann’s case, conducting the premiere of her piano concerto. Yet he would not do the same for Fanny. Only in 1846 did she nerve herself to defy her brother and publish a collection of her songs. The piano trio, her masterpiece, also comes from this period. And then, the next year, she died quite suddenly, aged 41, of a stroke.Even now, only a tiny fraction of Fanny’s hundreds of compositions have ever been published or performed. The day the siblings parted, in 1829, she wrote in her journal: “I played my Easter Sonata.” This sonata, along with most of her music, was then forgotten. 140 years later, only a freak of fate brought this work back into the light.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Full of crossings out and annotations’ … a detail of the original manuscript of Fanny Mendelssohn’s Easter Sonata.For a woman of 22 to write a piano sonata less than a year after Beethoven died was a big deal. A sonata – a solo piano piece – may not sound like much of a challenge, but anybody who has heard what Beethoven did with them will understand why most other composers of the time sat on their hands for a decade. Not our Fanny, however. She turned to it, and wrote a massive, complex, energetic and adventurous piece.That it was a masterpiece was obvious to the collector and record producer Henri-Jacques Coudert, who found the manuscript in a Paris bookshop in 1970. That it was a hitherto unknown work by “F Mendelssohn” was even more exciting. He bought it and arranged for it to be recorded by pianist Eric Heidsieck, as a newly discovered work by Felix Mendelssohn.But in 2010, a young American musicologist, Angela Mace Christian, heard it, and recognised Fanny’s musical voice. Studying Fanny was pretty difficult as Rudolf Elvers, then in charge of the archives in Berlin that house Fanny’s papers, wouldn’t let anybody near them, dismissing her as “just a housewife”. But his successor was more open-minded, and Christian had seen, among Fanny’s other works, a bound volume with 30 pages missing. When she tracked down Coudert in Paris and persuaded him to show her the precious manuscript, he insisted it was by Felix and only copied out by Fanny. “It can’t be by Fanny,” he said – and still maintains. “It’s a masterpiece … very masculine. Very violent”. But Christian saw not only that it was full of crossings out and annotations (and so it couldn’t be a copy), but that the pages were numbered. And those numbers were the ones missing from the volume in Berlin.So finally, 189 years after she wrote it, the Easter Sonata is to be performed as Fanny’s work, and my patient, determined, dauntless forebear gets the re-evaluation she deserves. Meanwhile, the manuscript has vanished again into a private collection, and the mystery of Felix and Fanny’s relationship remains.• The UK premiere of Fanny Mendelssohn’s Easter Sonata will be broadcast on Radio 3, live from the Royal College of Music, London, at 1pm on 8 March, as part of the station’s International Women’s Day programming. • Sheila Hayman is a writer, film-maker and direct descendent of Fanny Mendelssohn.