When death was represented in the neolithic age, it took the form of vultures feasting on headless human corpses. It may be a mark of how far we have come as a species that it can now be represented by Helen Mirren in blue beret and feather boa giving Will Smith a pep talk on a park bench. This is how death manifests itself in Collateral Beauty, a sentimental feel-good drama that will be a grislier proposition to some viewers than any amount of corpse-munching vultures. Mirren provides counsel to a grieving Manhattan man whose life has been hit by tragedy. Her get-up is a cross between Willy Wonka and Roxy Music-era Brian Eno, but then a cowl-and-cape combo is a real mood killer, and who has room in New York to carry a scythe?Personifications of death in cinema have been predominantly menacing, from the Grim Reaper harvesting an entire dinner party’s worth of guests in Monty Python’s The Meaning of Life – pointing his bony finger at the iffy salmon mousse by way of explanation – to the shovel-faced, multi-eyed Angel of Death in Hellboy 2: The Golden Army and the scarlet-clad figure in The Masque of the Red Death.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Springy curls … Virginia Madsen in A Prairie Home Companion, 2006. Photograph: Picturehouse/Rex/ShutterstockMirren’s interpretation, though, is hardly the first radiant image of mortality to stalk the screen. A Grim Reaper figure mingles backstage at the recording of a radio show in Robert Altman’s final film, A Prairie Home Companion, though with the effervescent Virginia Madsen in the role, wearing springy vanilla curls and a crisp white mackintosh, the reaping was never going to be that grim. Death becomes her.In the 1962 Twilight Zone episode Nothing in the Dark, it falls to a 25-year-old Robert Redford to convince a terrified elderly woman that there is nothing to fear in crossing to the other side. “You see?” says Redford, glowing handsomely and gesturing to the woman’s dormant body as he leads her spirit away. “No shock. No engulfment. No tearing asunder. What you feared would come like an explosion is like a whisper. What you thought was the end is the beginning.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   I’ve come for your waffle-maker … Brad Pitt in Meet Joe Black, 1998. Photograph: Allstar/UniversalBrad Pitt serves a similarly anaesthetising function in Meet Joe Black, pitching up at the home of dying billionaire Anthony Hopkins to escort him to the afterlife. It’s all remarkably painless for Hopkins, though not for audiences, who may need to check their vital signs after enduring three hours of inspirational waffle just to see him stroll across a symbolic bridge. Death Takes a Holiday, the 1934 romantic comedy on which Meet Joe Black is based, got the job done in less than half that time and with a good deal more charm. It also inspired a killer sketch from the 1990s comedy show In Living Color, where Jim Carrey as the Grim Reaper is spotted by star-struck celebrity-spotters who ask him whether Lee Harvey Oswald really acted alone (“That’s for me to know and Oliver Stone to find out,” quips Death). They then implore him to bump someone off for their entertainment.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Enduring … Bengt Ekerot, left, and Max Von Sydow in The Seventh Seal, 1957. Photograph: Ullstein Bild/Getty ImagesCarrey’s white-powdered face and swishing black robes owe everything to the dominant image of Death – as played by Bengt Ekerot – in Bergman’s 1957 masterpiece The Seventh Seal, where Max Von Sydow is a knight playing chess against Death in an effort to delay his own demise. That enduring scene was spoofed gloriously in the 1991 comedy Bill & Ted’s Bogus Journey, in which Death, played by William Sadler with a strangulated eastern European accent, offers the deceased goofball heroes a chance to win back their lives through a game of their choosing — cue a joyful montage of Death being beaten at Battleship, Cluedo and Twister.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   … and being sent up in Bill & Ted’s Bogus Journey, 1991. Photograph: InterscopeSadler had originally tried out this version of Death on a short-lived 1985 sketch show, Assaulted Nuts, which brought together US comic actors with British talent such as Emma Thompson and Tim Brooke-Taylor. “I pulled this funny Czechoslovakian accent out of my butt,” he tells me. “It made the character sound so easily bruised. All you have to do is look at him sideways and he starts to unravel.” In the original sketch, he is disappointed to find that the woman he has come to collect isn’t perturbed in the least: “Aren’t you a-fred juss a leetle beet?” he asks plaintively.Both Christopher Lloyd and Christopher Walken had been considered for the part in Bill & Ted’s Bogus Journey — Walken would eventually get his chance to play Death in the Adam Sandler comedy Click — but Sadler thinks it was his accent that swung it. “I had this character right there in my pocket. He was silly, he was funny, he mangled the language and when he lost at games he became this petulant little boy. You see those cracks in him and he starts to lose all his authority.” Given freedom to ad lib, Sadler came up with the choice moment when Death spooks a smoker by telling him: “See you real soon.” The actor believes that personifying and ridiculing death is a natural way of coming to terms with it. “It makes it a little less scary. We’re all frightened of death and maybe we need to poke fun at it sometimes, to let the air out of that particular balloon.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Christopher Walken plays Morty in Click, 2006. Photograph: Sony/Columbia/Rex/ShutterstockIt’s a belief shared by Julian Richings, who played Death in five episodes of the hit TV series Supernatural. “To humanise death, to turn it into someone recognisable and even sympathetic, reduces its power,” he explains. Richings is first seen on Supernatural emerging from his 1959 Cadillac Eldorado (licence plate: BUH-BYE). We can’t help but warm to him from the moment he kills, with one casual flick of the wrist, a mobile-phone-user who bumps into him onto the pavement. But Death also turns out to be an urbane, chatty, fairly ordinary guy with a penchant for junk food and a nice line in understatement. “I always play against the power of Death,” says Richings. “I never have to show how tough I am. I play up the humorous and wistful qualities instead.All I have to play is my delight at eating this crappy food while everyone knows what I’m really there for.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Wistful … Julian Richings in Supernatural, 2011. Photograph: Everett/Rex/ShutterstockThere is a tradition of Death as an upper-class Englishman in films such as the 1939 weepie On Borrowed Time, with Cedric Hardwicke coming to claim the elderly Lionel Barrymore, and The Last Action Hero, where Ian McKellen explains he has no dominion over the movie tough-guy played by Arnold Schwarzenegger: “I don’t do fiction. Not my field.” Richings knows that his own British accent is a boost. “I grew up watching Hammer films so I feel very much in that Peter Cushing tradition.” He played Death again in the Canadian short film Dave vs Death, which borrows the chess-game conceit from The Seventh Seal. “When you look like I do — gaunt, craggy, let’s say ‘interesting’ — you do tend to fall into a certain category of roles,” he sighs.What these portrayals of death represent ultimately is our defiance in the face of oblivion. Stephen King once noted that Stanley Kubrick regarded horror as essentially reassuring: “He thought that any vein of the supernatural story, whether it is horrifying, or whether it is pleasant, is inherently optimistic because it points towards the possible survival of the spirit.” The same must be true whenever death is personified. The mere appearance of the Grim Reaper, whichever form it might take, is evidence that there is something on the other side: we wouldn’t need an escort if there were nowhere to be escorted to. Collateral Beauty proves that we aren’t quite ready to stop telling ourselves that story. There’s life in death yet.Collateral Beauty is released in the US on 16 December, in the UK on Boxing Day 