Prof Hiroshi Ishiguro – director, Intelligent Robotics Laboratory at Osaka University, Japan, and named one of the top 100 living geniuses by Synetics in 2007 – is a very busy man. So busy, he practically needs a clone to keep up with his work schedule, something many of us have wished for in our own lives.But Ishiguro created one – a near-perfect mechanical likeness of silicon skin, actuators, electronics and his own hair – which he operates remotely via the internet. It means Ishiguro can (almost) be in two places at once: he regularly sends his robot to give lectures at conferences around the world. “It’s very convenient,” he deadpans.The future of healthcare: AI, augmented reality and drug-delivering drones Of course, his robot can’t answer questions – he has to do that himself – but the lecture is automated. Although his robot remains seated, it speaks in his voice, and his likeness is readily accepted by others – more readily, in fact, than he can accept this simulacrum of himself.It is, he says, like having a twin brother, only odder. Looking at his android, he says, is more like seeing a photograph than his own mirror image. “That is a very strange feeling – I cannot accept the android face as my face. But other people, they completely accept the android face as my face.” Ishiguro, who will be in Melbourne next week for the Creative Innovation 2016 conference, specialises in the study of human-robot interaction, and human-like or social robots are the subject of his experiments which ask deep questions of humanity itself. In other words, by studying robots, we can learn more about ourselves.Social robots, like his own doppelganger, are likely to soon be integrated into both our home and working lives, something that has obvious implications for employment and social welfare. Reports say that within the next 10 to 20 years, up to 40% of the Australian workforce might be replaced by automation. That’s more than five million jobs. Androids could soon be employed as receptionists, tour guides, even surgeons.Despite their oddness, robots could have some advantages in roles normally performed by humans. For example, Ishiguro’s robots may be used to test for autism in children. “Human eye movement is very complicated,” he says. “Kids with autism cannot focus or gaze on the human’s eyes. But they can gaze on the android’s eyes. So this is another form of cognitive science, and maybe neuroscience.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Prof Hiroshi Ishiguro with Erica, his latest humanoid robot. Photograph: Justin McCurry for the GuardianSimilarly, experiments show the elderly – particularly those afflicted by dementia – may relate better to robots than to their human caregivers. The inbuilt paranoia of humans means we are hard-wired to danger: “Always, we think about [our] interlocuter’s deeper intentions,” Ishiguro says. Machines are simply easier to trust. I ask if a robotic caregiver might lack, well, a human touch. Ishiguro’s response (which may be somewhat compromised by language barriers and less than perfect phone reception) is unintentionally comical. “Human touch? What do you mean?”When rephrased – isn’t empathy the most difficult human emotion to replicate? – Ishiguro misinterprets it as a technological problem; in particular, the production of robust human-like skin. “People may expect to use the android for more than 10 years, but usually we need to replace our sort of skin made by silicon every three years. So I think that is kind of a bottleneck of android technologies.”Why your NHS surgeon could be a robot in the future But Ishiguro knows perfectly well that for robots to be accepted in human society, particularly in the workforce, we need to be able to get along with them. Empathise with them, even. And that means making them look and behave more like us.In the not too distant future, we may struggle to tell the difference. “Of course, we are improving the android technology every year and we are improving the materials and the facial expressions and features,” he says. He cites an experiment with an android receptionist used in a company in Japan.“Eighty per cent of people couldn’t [tell the difference], they just said hello to the android,” he says. “The other 20% of people, maybe they thought there was something wrong, maybe not human. But the technology can cheat 80% of people if the android behaves like a receptionist. A receptionist is quite simple.”Even emotions, he says, may not be so difficult to replicate eventually, even empathy. “It’s programmable, and the robot can imitate the human feelings. But feelings [are] deep questions for humans … We use so many ambiguous words for humans – consciousness, heart. In order to deeply understand what these words mean, we need a mirror to reflect humanity.”A mirror? Or perhaps the less appealing photographic image like his android clone? “I think it will be very confusing,” he admits.Prof Hiroshi Ishiguro will speak at Creative Innovation 2016, which will be in Melbourne from 7 to 9 November