In an age when many of us approach TV like obsessive music fans, for ever in search of the exotic via a new Netflix series or a niche Scandinoir, Dickensian is a reminder that homegrown shows can take risks in primetime.Indeed, I think the BBC drama is taking more risks than any other show on British TV at the moment. The reasons for this lie deep in its mongrel DNA. This is a smoggy, shadowy period drama paced like a soap opera. It is a bizarre mashup; characters from seven Dickens novels cross paths and live cheek by jowl. It is full of murder and misery and human trafficking – and it is on before the watershed.Dickensian refuses to settle for the comforting storylines of shows such as Cold Feet or Last Tango in Halifax, where family ties and friendship can overcome even the worst crises. When bad things happen here, there is a sense that the characters could easily fall through a trapdoor and never clamber back out.I thought I’d outgrown Dickens – but Dickensian made me think again | Stephen Moss Tony Jordan’s mishmash adaptation is something new (albeit built on something very old) – making it almost inevitable that it would divide audiences. You may have been spending happy half-hours hurling abuse at the dastardly Meriwether Compeyson (Tom Weston-Jones) or quietly mourning (minor Great Expectations spoiler) Amelia Havisham (Tuppence Middleton). Or you may have decided you don’t want any more, sir.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Amelia Havisham (Tuppence Middleton) with Arthur Havisham (Joseph Quinn) . Photograph: Liam Daniel/BBC/Red Planet Productions/Liam DanielGranted, there are moments when the pace slows and it is unclear why you are even being shown scenes at all. The sweetly played attraction between youngsters Nell (Imogen Faires) and Peter Cratchit (Brenock O’Connor), for instance, never seems to go anywhere. Then again, a surprise may lie ahead here, because one of the biggest risks Dickensian takes is to demand that you pay the utmost attention; any fleeting look could foretell a major moment. Considering that it is going out in the undemanding world of early-evening TV, this is brave. Dickensian: please, sir, can we have some more characters? If Dickensian’s worst of times come when it ambles, its best of times occur when Stephen Rea, as Inspector Bucket, is on screen. As he explains to Mr Venus (Omid Djalili), his is a new kind of job: he is a detective, here investigating the murder of Jacob Marley (Peter Firth). Bucket is sceptical without being a cynic, and ahead of his time in his methodology – a bit like Ripper Street’s Edmund Reid, but more shop-soiled and far less anguished. To put this in less luvvy terms: Bucket is a 19th-century Columbo. But it is not just as a whodunnit that Dickensian is edgy. In so many of its storylines, as in the novels, cash is king. Lots of people had a motive for killing Marley; he was a moneylender. Spoilt Arthur Havisham (Joseph Quinn) can’t bear to miss out on his inheritance. Good Bob Cratchit (Robert Wilfort) longs to help his family more. The financial problems of Edward Barbary (Adrian Rawlins) are pushing his daughter, Honoria (Sophie Rundle), towards a loveless match.In the neverending aftermath of the 2008 crash, where we worry about returning to Victorian levels of inequality, it is an apposite theme, giving contemporary resonance without ever forcing the point. Many of its crimes – people-trafficking and fraud – seem all too contemporary, too. Dickens’ venal London might not be as foreign a place as we imagine.I hope Dickensian gets recommissioned. Just think how it could grow: the leads could go to Paris on holiday and meet the cast of classic French novels. A Tale of Two Cities, anyone? 