Build a bunker with a vegetable plot on some high but sheltered ground and leave it to your grandchildren: dangerous levels of climate change now look all but inevitable.According to a report this week by the International Energy Agency, which isn't an especially alarmist body, the chances grow every day that the world will warm by more than 2C (4F), which scientists estimate is the limit beyond which change becomes chaotic and unknowable, and much more dangerous. To stay within that limit, the proportion of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere mustn't exceed 450ppm (parts per million). Its present level is 390ppm and last year, despite recession, more carbon dioxide from fossil fuels poured into the atmosphere than ever before. The world goes on gobbling up oil, coal and gas in increasing amounts and will continue to build power stations and steel mills that depend on their energy. "Fossil fuel lock-in" is the term, meaning an ongoing commitment to coal and oil that will be impossible to undo until long after 2020, which, according to climate science, is when carbon emissions need to start their decline.A two-faced attitude is common to almost all of us and finds its reflection in every government's policy. Earlier this year, for example, Alex Salmond was talking up Scotland as "the Saudi Arabia of renewables". And yet last month, when the UK government gave BP the go-ahead to drill off the Shetlands, his main concern wasn't ecological, but the likely division of tax revenues between Edinburgh and London. BP said oil exploitation in the North Sea and its Atlantic margins was rising again after a decade of decline; that production could last for at least another 30 years. For UK citizens, especially those who may become Scottish citizens, what's not to like? Scotland can at one and the same time be the metaphorical Saudi Arabia of renewables and a little version of the real Saudi Arabia of oil.Mongolia, meanwhile, is advertising itself as "the Saudi Arabia of coal". International mining companies have just started ripping into the world's largest deposits of coking coal, most of which will go to feed the steel mills of China. According to a report from Jonathan Watts in the Guardian, Mongolia stands on the brink "of one of the most dramatic transformations in human history", as the profits from this superabundance of coal propel a country of nomadic herders towards the living standards of the global middle class. Mongolia will triple the size of its economy within eight years. There are downsides: mega-mines located in the Gobi desert will increase water scarcity in an already arid zone; grasslands will parch under the clouds of dust thrown up by columns of lorries moving coal to the railheads; ways of life will be lost. But, from a Mongolian perspective, these are easy enough consequences to live with when set against the future prosperity of 2.6 million people.The truth everywhere seems to be that not a tonne of coal or a barrel of oil will be left in the ground if money can be made from extracting and burning it.It sounds – it is – careless and ugly, but the British economy had similar foundations. In 1913, the peak year of production, British miners dug 300m tonnes of coal, a third of which went in exports down dusty chutes at ports in south Wales, the Tyne and the Forth. This is nothing compared to, say, China's annual rate of extraction (3.16bn tonnes in 2010), but coal shaped British life just as profoundly as it is about to change Mongolia's. Apart from the energy that powered the first industrial nation, it produced brass bands, militant politics, male-voice choirs, giant vegetable contests, the hobby of pigeon-racing and, at least in Scotland, a sport called "quoits" where competitors threw iron rings into a distant puddle of clay. All of these were, to a greater or lesser extent, peculiar to the mining communities that grew up around pits, where people felt "different" because of how they earned their money, as well as where they lived.Many of my relatives worked in Fife's pits, though so far as I know, none of them worked down below long enough to consider themselves fully-fledged miners or adopt their social habits. Mining, however, was everywhere visible. In my teens, I could cycle off with a sketchbook in any direction and within a few miles come across a pithead winding-gear and a triangular waste heap, whose combination of straight lines and circles (the winding wheel) could be easily drawn. My parents knew them by their names – the Lindsay, the Aitken, the Peeweep – and talked of them as though they'd always been there. This feeling of permanence was bogus; the mines and the settlements they created in that part of Fife mainly dated from the turn of the century when the Fife coalfield had a sudden expansion, and by the 1970s nearly every pithead had gone. Extractive industries, by their nature, move on.What did coal leave behind? Renovated castles and country houses owned by landlords who got rich on extraction concessions. The long urban valleys of south Wales. Towns everywhere whose size and location – not to mention survival – seem inexplicable. And underground emotions, or the memory of emotions, that shoot to the surface when, to think of a recent example, three men die digging for coal in a hillside near Swansea.Often, nothing survives at all; it's hard to know which is better or worse. You would struggle to find the remains of Lassodie, the thriving and now vanished mining village where my grandparents lived in the 1890s. Glenbuck in Ayrshire has also disappeared, though the long-defunct Glenbuck Cherrypickers will endure in football history as the team that produced several distinguished players, including Bill Shankly. Sometimes the expunction is total. A few years ago, the writer Kathleen Jamie went up on the wet Ayrshire moorland to find where her ancestors had lived in the 1900s, a village called Darnconner that once contained nearly 400 people and a school, a church and a shop. She met a farmer who pointed out two shrubs on the moor: "That's it."To regret Darnconner's obliteration is impossible. It was remote, connected by a railway that carried nothing but coal, and equipped with only 11 latrines. Jamie quotes from a report of 1913: "None had a door, so owing to the want of privacy they cannot be used by females or grownup persons. The floors of the closets are littered with human excrement." We can also be sure that in the cramped, draughty miners' houses there would be middle-aged men already wheezing and coughing from lung disease.When people talk of coal mining's legacy, no memory of a prizewinning brass band can eclipse the fact that, at its worst, it ruined the bodies of so many men who actually dug the coal. Tomorrow's legacy will be different – more universal in its effect, less selective in its damage. Nothing, however, seems able to prevent mining companies scalping Appalachian mountaintops or blasting into the seams below the Gobi. We want power, we want growth. We shall go on taking coal from the earth.