What’s the name of this show? Party Over HereWhen does it premiere? You missed it. It was on Saturday at 11pm ET on Fox. But don’t worry, it will be back next week at the same time. What kind of show premieres late on a Saturday night? A sketch comedy show, of course. This is trying to replace Saturday Night Live? No, it’s on 30 minutes earlier and there are far too many women involved. So it’s like the female SNL? It is closer to Mad TV, since all of its scenes are taped.Who are the women on the show? Comedians Nicole Byer, Jessica McKenna and Alison Rich are the official Party Over Here crew. The show, however, was created and produced by The Lonely Island, the comedic band featuring Andy Samberg, Akiva Schaffer and Jorma Taccone, along with Fresh Off the Boat actor Paul Scheer. So Fox is trying to get some of that Inside Amy Schumer and Broad City heat? Possibly, but I don’t think one show featuring female comedians should lead to other shows featuring female comedians. I think they should have as many opportunities as men do. If this were a show featuring three dudes doing sketches, it wouldn’t even raise an eyebrow. This show was also created by men, so it already had a leg up. So, how is it? Well, here’s the thing. Because of the industry’s attitude of “We’ll only give women a chance when they can prove themselves”, I really, really want to like Party Over Here. I generally find female comedians funnier than male comedians, and I don’t want there to be a bad show featuring them to give networks a reason for not greenlighting more projects with funny humans that don’t have any Y chromosomes. The problem is, Party Over Here is not funny. Each scene has a surprising and fresh concept, but the jokes never seem complete. For instance, one features Belle from Beauty and the Beast telling her father she spent a lovely night with the Beast in the barn and made love. He tells her that the Beast doesn’t live in the barn, but the castle next to it. Yup, Belle had sex with a farm animal. That’s outrageous and comical, but it’s like the scene needs another kicker or some way to take it from “teeheehee” funny to legit “LOL” funny. That’s not to say everything needs to be amazing. SNL has one or two good moments per show, but Party Over Here doesn’t even have that. It’s like they didn’t quite know how to execute their great ideas. Maybe if the show had 10 more minutes in the oven it would be baked to perfection. Take the story about at suffragette who can’t vote because of a million little excuses that we all use all the time. I get the point (that we take the vote for granted) but it was too simple and too pat, without a great reversal at the end to really hit it home. I kept waiting for all the sketches to hit the bullseye and then they were just over – all promise and no reward. Were there any great sketches? The first of the night was the best. It was a critique of the way food is marketed to women, by making it look like they want to have sex with it. Making love to a cup of yogurt is inherently funny, especially when it helps you realize how ludicrous and ubiquitous that kind of advertising is. The women’s brief introductions of themselves, flavored like political ads, were humorous as well, especially when they told the live audience – yes, it is a little awkward with them sitting around a tiny stage – that their 15 white male co-stars couldn’t join them that evening. Should I watch this show? I want to tell you yes, just so that we won’t have to have another “Are women funny?” conversation. But right now, Party Over Here needs a bit of fine-tuning. Maybe in a couple of weeks? 