As has been much discussed, for the second year running the Oscars managed to nominate no black actors for best actor, best actress, best supporting actress or best supporting actor. Critics, using the #OscarsSoWhite hashtag, have suggested that repeatedly shutting black people out of the awards is effectively racist. British best actress nominee Charlotte Rampling, though, disagreed. On Friday she declared that the #OscarsSoWhite agitation is “racist to whites”. She added: “ One can never really know, but perhaps the black actors did not deserve to make the final list.”Rampling’s comments are based on the common idea that aesthetic awards are based on a straightforward meritocratic analysis. If black actors are not chosen by the Academy, then, by this logic, that must be because their acting didn’t measure up. Laurels should be given only on the basis of talent. “Why classify people?” Rampling insists. “ These days everyone is more or less accepted.” That “more or less” covers a lot of ground – but still, the thrust of the comments are clear. The Academy Awards are (more or less) a colour-blind meritocracy. Changing that would be wrong.But are the Academy Awards a colour-blind meritocracy? I would strongly argue that they aren’t. And in defence of that position, I’d point to the 1997 Oscars, which overlooked one of the greatest performances of the last 30 years: Pam Grier’s title role in Jackie Brown.Many fans were, justly, excited by Charlize Theron’s turn as a bad-ass feminist force in last year’s Mad Max: Fury Road (which has done gangbusters in the Oscar nominations). But Grier put her to shame. The role of Jackie Brown called for Grier to be tough and cool as hell – but it also demanded a multi-layered presentation of characters within characters. Jackie Brown is an airline steward with a criminal record, flying for a crappy little airline and doing illegal money-running on the side. When she’s nabbed by the police, she has to perform a complicated balancing act in an attempt to both stay out of jail and prevent her gunrunner boss, Ordell (Samuel Jackson), from killing her.Is this it? Pam Grier, blaxploitation star That means that over the course of the film, Jackie Brown is lying to everyone, all the time, and Grier sells it with dazzling bravado, style and intelligence. With the cops she’s desperate, confused and flirtatious – seducing them into believing she’s scared and ready to make a deal. With Ordell, she’s a tough-as-nails superbitch, showing no fear – shoving a pistol into his crotch one moment, chewing him out for failing to follow through on a scam the next, and then cheerfully chatting with him as a breathless co-conspirator. Heist films like the multiple-Oscar-winning American Hustle (2013) tend to falter because the protagonists don’t actually seem anywhere smart enough actually to fool anyone. But just looking at a single still from the film shows you that Grier, and Jackie Brown, have the personality and smarts to take all your money, and make you like it.Grier’s performance was dazzling, but the Academy didn’t care. Co-star Robert Forster was nominated for an award, as a kind of late capstone to a celebrated career. Grier was a veteran actor too when Jackie Brown came out, but her famous performances were in blaxploitation film – one of the few genres in which African Americans could find substantive roles in the 70s. Racism denied mainstream roles to black films, and racism also meant that blaxploitation films would be seen as déclassé and unimportant. Grier, for reasons that had everything to do with her blackness, wasn’t a Hollywood insider and so, unlike Forster, she didn’t get a nomination.Who did? Well, nominees for best actress for 1997 included Helena Bonham Carter, Judi Dench and Kate Winslet – all playing upper-class white women, rather than working-class African Americans, as it happens. The winner was Helen Hunt, for an utterly pedestrian performance as Carol Connelly, a waitress with a heart of gold in As Good as It Gets.Hunt does perfectly fine with a script that calls for standard issue spunkiness and weeping, though she can’t quite sell the clearly preposterous romance. But her Oscar win was really about being in the right kind of movie – one starring Jack Nicholson as a wounded misanthrope saved by love. Nicholson (who also won an Academy Award for his performance) plays Melvin Udall, a fantastically rich romance novelist who has some undefined form of OCD. The disorder is presented less as a mental illness than as a character defect. The chief sign of that defect? Melvin is cruelly prejudiced against minorities, especially gay people and black people. The Academy could have taken a long overdue opportunity to honor one of the great icons of African American film and, for that matter, American cinema. Instead, they chose to honor Hunt for a role in which she earnestly helps a racist find love and show that he’s not such a bad guy after all.It’s not every year that the Academy so flagrantly shows such a dramatic preference for mediocre stories about rich white racists. But still, the choice of Hunt over Brown is telling. Aesthetic judgments don’t occur in a vacuum. When Driving Miss Daisy won the 1989 best picture over Do the Right Thing, that wasn’t because Driving Miss Daisy is somehow objectively better than Do the Right Thing. It’s because the Academy finds certain stories more congenial, due to the content of the story and the connections of the participants. When only one black woman has ever won best actress in the entire history of the Oscars, that’s not because black women can’t act. It’s because black women are rarely given the chance to star in their own stories and when they are, as the snub of Grier shows, those stories aren’t seen as interesting, worthy or important.Cheryl Boone Isaacs, the African American president of the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences, has announced sweeping changes to increase the diversity of its membership, with the goal of doubling female and minority members by 2020. That’s vital because, contra Rampling, what art is valued depends a lot on who is doing the valuing, and the context in which that valuing occurs. And in the choices of the Academy, from Gone with the Wind to Do the Right Thing to Jackie Brown to Selma, who is white and who is not has mattered as much, or more, as who has made great art.