Every time the sun comes out, I convince myself it’s here to stay. I pack away my jumpers and shove them so far back in my wardrobe they get patted down by Narnian border patrol. And then what happens? Summer changes its mind about its early arrival, the sun goes off in a midsummer sulk and I sit shivering in my stupid, overly optimistic tank tops.Hence this week’s green gadget: the radiator booster. I hate turning on my heating in summer but if I need to, I want a low setting to be as effective as possible.So how does it work?The radiator booster is a long, light, rectangular piece of cheap-looking plastic that houses a small fan. The idea is to boost the efficiency of your radiator by dispersing the lovely warm air that gets trapped behind it. You plug the booster in and place it on top of your water-filled radiator. It sits there doing nothing for a while, with a red light to indicate “standby”. Now I don’t wish to be an eco worrier, but aren’t standby modes pointless? It’s basically using electricity to signify near-total inaction. It’s like ringing someone to tell them you don’t want to speak to them.Once the radiator itself reaches 30C, the light goes green, the fan turns on and sets about dispersing the trapped hot air, mixing hot and cold spots in the room. The claim is that it can raise the temperature of a room by 3C – which would save you an average of £140 a year. Since it shouldn’t cost more than 30p a year to run, it could in theory pay for itself within eight weeks – if it works.Online reviewers were mixed, tending towards the unimpressed: there were 30 one-star reviews, 17 two and three-star, 23 people gave it four stars and 22 gave it five.First, five stars from an Amazon reviewer who not only liked the product, but took the time to insult those who didn’t: “I've just bought my third radiator booster. My heating bills are now over £160 lower than before I used them! The fan makes a whirring noise a little like a computer hard disk, which although not silent, is soon absorbed in the general background noise and becomes unnoticeable. You'd have to be a little ‘precious’ to let such a small noise bother you."Also, not only do I give it an empirical thumbs up for the comfort and money saved, but as an absolutely independent viewpoint tested under controlled circumstances by a professional organisation ‘Which?’ recommend it, it makes you wonder about the scientific backgrounds of the people who pass a negative opinion on it.”A three-star review lamented its fragility: “I agree that it does work and definitely help warm a cold room quicker, but they don't last; each one made it through one winter only before giving up hence I cannot recommend them on the money-saving front.”Sadly, more one-star reviews were given than any other rating. One user seemed sad and genuinely let down, as if he’d been forced to put away his childhood dreams of a warm yet eco-friendly hallway: “I bought this radiator booster thinking it was going to blow hot air from the radiator around the hallway. I was very disappointed. It just hasn’t got the power to do that.” Another user seemed slightly more enraged: “What a complete and utter load of rubbish. Tried it in the kitchen which is very cold, still exactly the same. Only tried it once, needed a pair of earplugs.”My own verdict: the minus points• My dream was that this magical device could circulate whatever little heat my radiator was producing, meaning I could put it on a low setting and basically get the effect of a higher one. In fact, it doesn’t work at all until the radiator reaches 30C, meaning I had to turn the radiator up higher than I wanted in order to jolt the booster out of standby mode. In winter I’m sure I’ll be grateful for it, but in this seasonal purgatory, where summer has approached then bolted like some meteorological version of knock knock run, I may as well have kept the radiator on a lower setting and waited the extra 10 minutes.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Erica Buist hoping the radiator booster will warm her up. Photograph: Graham Turner• It looks a bit daft on my flat-top radiator. I must agree with the tester for Which? who said it looked “like I left something on the radiator by accident”. If you can tuck it behind your radiator it’s not too noticeable.• The other problem with balancing the booster on a flat-top radiator was that, as ever, my kitten took it to be a delightful game called “Knock the booster off the radiator then dash away as if it’s chasing me”. In a nation of animal lovers I imagine this is going to be a recurring problem.• The box had a product description in several languages – but the “Spanish” description wasn’t Spanish at all. It was poorly spelled English – “radaitor”. My Italian, Polish and Dutch friends confirmed the instructions in their languages were written at best bizarrely, and peppered with the odd English word.• The price. You’re exchanging in the region of £20-25 for what is essentially a piece of lightweight plastic and a tiny fan. You really have to believe it will work.And the plus points:• It did heat up the room quicker than usual (the usual being, on average, 35 minutes). By “the room” I mean my entire flat, which is a small warehouse box with a mezzanine bedroom. Within 10 minutes the “upstairs” was toasty warm whereas the downstairs remained chilly for another 10 or 15 minutes. For those who also live in warehouses with mezzanines, and can therefore get closer to the ceiling when they’re chilly, it’s a more useful piece of kit than if you live in a normal house or flat where you have to wait until the heat comes down to your level.• It has an internal thermostat and will switch on automatically whenever the radiator reaches 30C, which means in the winter months you can just plug it in and forget about it. • I’m amazed at the right royal fuss that was made about the noise of the fan by online reviewers. I can’t imagine a more innocuous whir. I could have whispered over it. It sounded like a plane flying over a town two postcodes away. • It’s made from recyclable plastic, so even if you decide to throw it out it won’t have to end up in a landfill.In summation:It worked for me, but one look at the reviews suggests results vary greatly from household to household. While I’m a fan of any invention that increases the efficiency of existing appliances, I wonder if my £25 might be better spent on a jumper. Interested in finding out more about how you can live better? Take a look at this month's Live Better Challenge here.The Live Better Challenge is funded by Unilever; its focus is sustainable living. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out more here.