The Colombian star J Balvin, it was suggested earlier this year by the Fader, is reggaeton’s answer to Kanye West or Drake. Someone sensitive, vulnerable – as well as suave and certain in his stardom. He’s certainly got the stardom bit nailed.José Álvaro Osorio Balvin is Latin America’s biggest emerging music star. Two years since he released Ay Vamos, the video has reached the 1bn views mark, the first Latin “urban” track to do so. His next big single, 2015’s Tokyo-by-night-evoking Ginza, stayed at the top of the US Latin charts for 22 weeks, broke into the main Billboard Hot 100 and went to No 1 in Spain and Italy. In the same year, he won the award for best urban song at the Latin Grammys. On Thursday night he will find out if he has won another – the best urban album award, for Energia.Now Balvin is edging on to the world stage. The 31-year-old’s crossover into non-Latin markets continued with his sixth album, Energia, released in June, which featured a collaboration with Pharrell Williams on the track Safari. Gone are reggaeton’s uniform snapbacks and showy bling; Balvin’s style has become more designer than gangsta, with his bleached hair, Saint Laurent clothes and – as he is keen to stress today in the same ultra-positive rhetoric he Snapchats – a keen focus on “vibes”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “Even though you don’t understand what we saying, you feel the vibe,” he says from the backseat of a car driving him to Miami airport, of why his music has gone global. “It’s about the vibes.” Language, he says, is no longer an issue when it comes to making good music. “Right now, we breaking those barriers. People are really feeling it and starting to ask: ‘Who is this guy and why does he sound so familiar?’” We came from a country with a lot of problems – Pablo Escobar and those things. We want to change the face of Colombia One reason he sounds familiar is because – just as artists this year such as Drake, Rihanna, Major Lazer and Justin Bieber have borrowed from reggaeton and dancehall – Balvin pinches from hip-hop and pop. He is reggaeton’s renaissance man, dragging the genre into the present. In some cases, he drops the reggaeton altogether, putting a contemporary twist on Latin music. The intro to his song Snapchat could as easily be Drake’s Hotline Bling sung in Spanish (it was produced by Fuego, who was responsible for the Spanish-language version of Hotline Bling); the acoustic ballad No Hay Título, a collaboration with songwriter Poo-Bear, evokes the latter’s most famous collaborator: Bieber.His determination to break into the US mainstream could by why Balvin sees musical cross-pollination as a positive, even as the likes of dancehall singer Sean Paul have called out such global stars for appropriating Caribbean music. “Right now, what Drake and Rihanna are doing, I’m so happy that they’re putting those beats [on their music]. They’re putting reggaeton on the map.” Nor is he concerned that his desire to tap different markets will end up watering down his reggaeton sound. “Music is for the world, it doesn’t belong to one guy. If you’re doing the right music, it doesn’t matter where you’re from.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Perhaps Balvin’s outlook is partly down to his roots in Medellín, Colombia. Reggaeton was a Panamian and Puerto Rican phenomenon in its mid-2000s peak. Medellín didn’t really have a reggaeton scene – and the sound had fallen out of favour – so Balvin helped to create one. He joined the production team Infinity Music – whose name is on Balvin’s tracks like a logo stamp – and hustled his way to a record deal with Capitol Latin in 2013. Medellín is now reggaeton’s most exciting hub, with artists moving there from Puerto Rico and new local stars such as Maluma and Reykon following Balvin’s lead.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Even though you don’t understand what we saying, you feel the vibe’ … J Balvin at O2 Shepherd’s Bush Empire in London. Photograph: C Brandon/Redferns“It was hard because people’s perception was that if you do reggaeton, you have to be from Puerto Rico or Panama,” Balvin says. “It was hard for us to change that perception and show the world that I, as Colombian, could do really good reggaeton. It really worked. It took me eight years but all the sacrifice was worth it.”Medellín’s musical style wasn’t the only point of difference from reggaeton’s first stars. Instead of commentaries on hood life, Balvin, a middle-class Colombian whose father was an economist, gets corny about the complexities of relationships. At first, he tells me, it’s “just being real” and how “if you do good things, good things happen to you and we put that energy in our music.” But he goes on to explain: “We came from a country that had a lot of problems, with Pablo Escobar and all those things. We want to change the face of Colombia. We’re the new generation that want to bring the positive to the world. We just wanna be positive.”His approach to his brand appears shrewd: he makes no bones about wanting to tap into what’s popular or offering his millions of social media followers moody selfie after moody selfie. But consider Latin music’s other male crossover stars and it’s easy to see why he wants to shake up their image.“Look at the pop Latino artists like Ricky Martin or, right now, Pitbull,” he says before trailing off. It’s true that neither of them, tight pants or not, were exactly flying the flag for cutting-edge culture. “I think we need more soldiers, more artists to represent our way of seeing things. And to show the world that as Latinos, we supercool.”He is annoyed that Latin artists aren’t seen as relevant as their US counterparts. “That perception has to change, but it takes time,” he says. He has already started to make headway, and his determination is sincere. Think what you will of the booking in the first place, but last year he cancelled a performance at Miss USA’s contest after Donald Trump, the brand’s owner, made hateful comments about Latin America and Mexico.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Balvin claims he won’t bend to the States. He wants to bring America to him and refuses, for now, to compromise the language of his vocals. He says he won’t be releasing a track sung in English anytime soon. “It’s not like we’re going to sound like pop music – we’re just getting bigger in the way that everyone wants to listen to our music,” he adds.And it’s true that more and more people do – last Sunday he even played his first UK headline show, in a country where reggaeton is certainly not the most familiar sound – and there is the small matter of a Bieber collaboration in the bag, which he says will get a release at some point. “I just want to show the world that reggaeton [can be] worldwide,” he says. “People thought that it was impossible, but I always had the feeling that we can make it, and we’re making it. I had a dream and I will keep pursuing that dream.” And for those who aren’t dreamers like Balvin – well, you can just catch the vibe.