Hi Yannis! How’s the gardening (1)?I did actually do a bit today. I’ve moved into a new place in Peckham and it’s a bit overgrown, so I’m hacking back nettles and getting ready to plan things. I have a little patch. I don’t need anything lavish.You must otherwise be getting used to big things, though, now that Foals have made the leap into arenas. Yeah. I don’t think we would have predicted it. We played Wembley last week. It was pretty surreal, but great.I think there’s a strange stigma about being popular enough to play those places, because it entails some sort of compromise, but I don’t feel like we’ve compromised. It didn’t feel antiseptic or sterile.Has your life changed in other ways, now that you’re well known? We used to get recognised outside the venue. Now we get recognised away from the venue. At the train station. By the conductor. But I haven’t bought a yacht yet or upgraded my nose.Have you got used to your every word being scrutinised? There was a bit of trouble a while back after you called some bands “whingers”(2) .I have become more guarded, especially on social media. There’s an echo-chamber, lynch-mob mentality to a lot of sites, but it’s frustrating because I look back at the 90s and the stuff the Gallaghers used to say …Noel’s still at it, to be fair (3). I didn’t see it as much of a go. He said some nice things about us that same week. We bumped into him at the Q awards and he said he’d seen us on Jools Holland, bought the record (4) and loved it. Any endorsement from Noel G is a good thing, I think.Do you think Noel and Kasabian slag off other bands to liven things up?Exactly, and they’re right to, because music has got so polished and careerist. Everyone’s watching their words and got to be fresh for the next TV opportunity the next day. It’s lost some of that wild west free-for-all. In Liverpool recently, you leaped off a balcony into the crowd. It’s good to keep things unpredictable. Onstage, I’m emboldened, whether it’s by booze or whatever. I’m out of my day-to-day mind and into the music. I want the show to go to a place where it’s ecstatic, untamed, feral energy, and you’re not going to get to that place by everything being choreographed, playing to click or using a computer. You need to lose control.You don’t walk around venues before, to get an idea of what might be safe? No. A lot of the time we don’t soundcheck, so the first time I see the stage is when we do the show. Give me some credit. I’m not going out there and going to stake it out with tape measures. But if the crowd don’t catch you, you’re in big trouble. I know, and I’m not as light as I used to be.Has anyone ever told you off for doing that kind of thing, or said, ‘You could have killed yourself’? Oh yeah. Mainly my mum. If my mum hears about something I get a text. Security guards have tried to stop me. I got into a scrap with one in New Zealand. He was holding me, trying to stop me jumping, which was a bit aggravating. I’m sure people come away with certain bruises, but that’s it.Might you eventually tire of such leaps, like Jimi Hendrix became fed up with audiences expecting him to set fire to his guitar?Probably. I don’t want it to be the defining thing of what I do. When I get older I’m not going to be doing that sort of thing. I’m not going to do it on the reformation tour. When Foals started, few singers had much facial hair. Now even footballers have hipster’s beards.Are you tempted to rebel and go clean-shaven?Yes, but I’m afraid of what’s underneath. I don’t have that Alamo lumberjack beard everyone has now, but I haven’t seen what’s underneath for a very long time. The thought terrifies me.Now you’ve turned 30, you’ve spent half your life in bands (5). I know. I don’t want anything to get staid, so I’d like to mix that up too. I’d like us to make an experimental polyphonic Greek noseflute record.Apart from gardening, what else do you like doing? DIY, books, telly, hanging out with my girlfriend and cat and going on the lash. I like watching boxing videos – Mike Tyson, Nigel Benn, Chris Eubank. I got really into watching them before shows.Have you boxed? I’ve got into fights. That doesn’t count does it? I’ve been thinking about doing some boxing, though, as a way of getting into shape. The years do take their toll.You’re hardly an old man, Yannis.No. I know, but there is an inbuilt time bomb I need to keep on top of. I wouldn’t get too heavily into boxing, like Mickey Rourke did. The boxing lesson I’d take from Mickey Rourke is everything in moderation.Last year you played secret shows at the Leeds/Reading festival. This year, you’re headlining (6). Have Foals got something special planned? I enjoyed that [secret] set because it was so stripped back. White T-shirt, daylight, no make up, no lasers, nothing. This year will be the opposite. I want it to be a visual spectacle, but we’re not going to do some cheesy collaboration with some other semi well-known guitar musician. So … more electricity. More power.If you’re thinking about leaping off that stage, it’s very high up.Thank you. I’ll try to remember that.Foot notes  (1) In 2010, Yannis said he was looking forward to being married, having kids and doing the garden. (He hasn’t yet ticked the other boxes.) (2) He responded to reports of mental health problems among musicians by saying, ‘There’s so many people who would kill to be doing what some of those whingers are doing.’ He later apologised. (3) In an Esquire interview, Gallagher said: ‘You’re not seriously telling me that people will still be listening to Foals in 12 years.’ (4) Foals’ fourth album What Went Down (2015). (5) Yannis formed his first band, the Edmund Fitzgerald, when he was 15, with future Foals drummer, Jack Bevan. (6) Foals co-headline Reading & Leeds festival, 26-28 August.