A red evening dress has beaten tough competition from some clams in the shape of penises to become the star of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge’s royal visit to Canada.The international attention focused on visits by the younger royals is disproportionate to the substance of the itinerary. Engagements for this trip have included watching a college volleyball match, sending a tweet by telegram, riding a train and sampling the aforementioned clams at a food festival. So it is inevitable that in the absence of moments of substance for the media to focus on, the royal wardrobe is called upon to do the heavy lifting, and imbue a succession of photocalls with a message.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Duchess of Cambridge in Preen. Photograph: FD/Francis Dias/NEWSPIX INTERNATI      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Duchess of Cambridge in Whitehorse, Canada. Photograph: Dominic Lipinski/PAFor many daytime engagements the Duchess has chosen to wear jeans, boots and knitwear, informal choices that emphasise her youth and modern outlook. This message has been underscored by a schedule weighted towards themes of family, young people and the environment. (The couple have visited a youth centre, and the Great Bear rainforest.) But the standout fashion moment came for one of the few formal occasions, with a red evening gown by London fashion week designers Preen by Thornton Bregazzi. The ballerina-length hem was elegant – dressier than knee-length, more fashion-forward than a gown – while a diamond maple leaf brooch, leant by the Queen, added a diplomatic twinkle.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Duchess of Cambridge in a trench coat while on the Canadian tour. Photograph: Jonathan Hayward/APThe Canada visit comes at a crucial moment for Britain’s international image. In the wake of Brexit, bonds with the commonwealth have taken on renewed significance. When the Duke and Duchess visited Australia and New Zealand two years ago, the toddler Prince George was dubbed “the Republican Slayer”, and credited with an upswing in support for the monarchy. The Canada trip is the first the Cambridges have made as a family of four, with both George and his younger sister Charlotte in tow, and it will be hoped that the photogenic family will shore up support for the future of the monarchy in Canada. Earlier this year, a Canadian poll reported that the Queen’s high approval ratings were not matched by those of Prince Charles – and that Charles’ rating lagged far below that of his elder son. The style stakes in Canada have been raised, too, by the high profile of photogenic prime minister Justin Trudeau.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Duchess of Cambridge in Alexander McQueen. Photograph: Tim Rooke/REX/ShutterstockThe intense preparation that goes into the Duchess’s wardrobe was illustrated by the red-and-white Alexander McQueen dress that she wore in Vancouver on the second day of their visit. Undoubtedly chosen to represent British fashion while honouring Canada’s national colours, it was a bespoke version of a dress from McQueen’s resort collection. In the dress made for the Duchess, the voluminous three-quarter length sleeves of the original were switched for long, shirt-style sleeves – more suitable for waving at crowds – and the tiered skirt lengthened from mid-thigh to just above the knee.