Jo Wood was born in Essex in 1955. On leaving school at 16, she became a model. She had her first son, Jamie, at 18 and met Rolling Stones guitarist Ronnie Wood in 1977. They had two children, Leah and Tyrone, and married in 1985. The family toured the world with the Stones but Ronnie left her in 2008 and they divorced in 2011. An environmental campaigner, Jo has a beauty line called Jo Wood Organics and is an interior designer. She has published a book about her life called Hey Jo: A Rock And Roll Fairytale.When were you happiest?The day after each of my children was born.What is your earliest memory?When I was I was four and met the Duke of Bedford. I said, "Hello, Queen."Which living person do you most admire, and why?Horst Rechelbacher, the founder of Aveda. His philosophy in organic living is right up my street.What is the trait you most deplore in yourself?Forgetfulness.What is the trait you most deplore in others?Abusing the planet for profit.What was your most embarrassing moment?Strippers at my 50th.Property aside, what's the most expensive thing you've bought?A Gypsy caravan for Ronnie.Where would you like to live?London and an island off the Kenyan coast.What would your super power be?The ability to change people's bad eating habits.What do you most dislike about your appearance?How, inevitably, I have to age.What is your most unappealing habit?Speeding.If you could bring something extinct back to life, what would you choose?Strains of coral to revive our seas.What is the worst thing anyone's said to you?When Craig Revel Horwood told me that I danced like a kangaroo on Strictly Come Dancing. I tried so hard!Is it better to give or to receive?Receive.What is your guiltiest pleasure?A pot full of caviar.To whom would you most like to say sorry and why?To my kids' nanny Jay, for not keeping in touch over the years.What or who is the greatest love of your life?Ronnie (so far).What does love feel like?I'll tell you when I find it again.Who would you invite to your dream dinner party?Marilyn Monroe, Brigitte Bardot, Errol Flynn, James Dean, Boris Johnson, Keith Richards, Prince Charles, Lee Mack, Marie Antoinette, Nefertiti.What is the worst job you've done?Looking after a drunk ex-husband.What has been your biggest disappointment?That my organic products aren't yet a global success.If you could edit your past, what would you change?Nothing.What do you consider your greatest achievement?Kids.How would you like to be remembered?As someone who loved life and help pioneer the organic movement.Tell us a joke. What have Viagra and Disney got in common? You wait two hours for a two-minute ride.• Follow Rosanna Greenstreet on Twitter.