Austrian director Philipp Preuss’s new stage adaptation of Albert Camus’ 1942 classic L’Étranger (The Stranger) takes place entirely inside a three-walled cage made of upright LED tubes: a static stage set that proves surprisingly adaptable. When the inscrutable protagonist Meursault attends his mother’s funeral, the light flickers, like a sunset filtered through trees. After his imprisonment for the murder of an Arab man in French Algiers, the white shards form the bars of his cell.Albert Camus will always be the outsider – and I'm proud of that, says the writer's daughter In the novel’s pivotal murder scene, as Meursault walks down the beach toward the scene of his crime, with “the cymbals of the sun clashing on my skull”, the stage manager whacks up the lights until the audience have to shield their eyes – not a bad metaphor for a text that, in spite of its widely agreed upon brilliance, many these days find hard to approach head on.France’s relationship with Camus’s first novel remains complicated. Edward Said said the book was “informed by an incapacitated colonial sensibility”. Recently theatre-makers have found it easier to access the material in a roundabout way, via Algerian writer Kamel Daoud’s The Meursault Investigation, a feted production of which is currently at Munich’s Kammerspiele theatre.Preuss’s production, at Berlin’s Schaubühne, has more hope in the enduring relevance of Camus’s absurdist tale. “Existentialism has become a visual cliche – chain-smoking gloomsters wearing black polo necks,” the director says. “But there’s something very contemporary about Camus’s rejection of ideology. Ironically in France, because of the political associations The Stranger attracted after the 1961 Paris massacre [the bloody crackdown by French police on an Algerian anti-war protest], the text that first tried to articulate a post-ideological age was one that struggled to do so.”Current political debate in Germany may be enough to top up the 90-minute play’s pertinency, the director suggests. “What interests me is what otherness or strangeness means in our society. Do people from the Arab world have to remain strangers in order to turn us into who we are? In contemporary German-language theatre, the instinct is to bring refugees on to the stage, and while I don’t believe that instinct is wrong as such, I do wonder if it is a way to ensure their otherness, as ‘the refugees’.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Existentialism has become a visual cliche’ … Philipp Preuss. Photograph: Schaubühne Theatre/Volker HeroldTheatres in Hamburg, Mannheim and Hanover have, since the start of Europe’s refugee crisis, hosted performances that involved asylum-seekers telling their stories on stage. Nobel prize winner Elfriede Jelinek’s play Die Schutzbefohlenen (The Supplicants), which premiered at Vienna’s Burgtheater in March 2015, featured a Greek chorus made up of refugees who had arrived in Europe at Lampedusa.Preuss’s interpretation tries to locate Camus’s stranger not on the margins of society but at the centre of the self. Meursault is played by three actors in grey linen suits, Bernardo Arias Porras, Iris Becher and Felix Römer, who share his lines – a nod to the novelist’s gnomic remark that there were really three Meursaults, “two men (including myself) and a woman”.The three remain the only actors on the stage throughout, morphing also into Meursault’s dead mother, his lover, his victim, his lawyer, his judge and a dog snoozing in the sunshine. A smoke machine impersonates a cigarette, water in plastic bottles denotes the sea, red wine or the blood gushing out of a dead man’s bullet wounds.The text’s original chronology is cut up and repackaged. “Mother died today. Maybe yesterday; I can’t be sure,” one of the most enigmatic opening lines in 20th-century fiction, is now slipped in a quarter of the way through. The play opens instead with Meursault explaining his lawyer’s defence strategy, which each actor then gets a go at ripping to pieces in a soliloquy, stating simply that the victim was not shot in self-defence, but with five intentional bullets: “Short raps on the door of misfortune.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Three Meursaults … l to r, Felix Römer, Bernardo Arias Porras and Iris Becher in The Stranger. Photograph: Thomas AurinIn Camus’s novel, what bewilders and eventually scandalises the courtroom is Meursault’s calmness in reaction to his mother’s death and his own pending fate. In Preuss’s production, that eerie torpor gives way to a nervous skittishness, which feels like it has less to do with design than with the default mode of contemporary German theatre.Trapped in their static LED cage, Preuss’s three Meursaults have to work hard to landscape the text with their voices, with Meursault announcing his decision to “open his heart to the benign indifference of the universe” by screaming at the visiting priest at the top of his lungs. It may be fitting that in our post-factual age, Camus’s post-ideological alienation announces itself with rage rather than quiet dispassion. But as the stranger’s detachment becomes the standard mode, it also loses its enigma.The Stranger (Der Fremde) is in rep at the Schaubühne, Berlin, until 8 January.