Maryam Golding rarely gets her three eldest sons together round the dinner table at her small west London flat. Her boys have extraordinary reasons to be busy. The last time the whole family was crowded into the living room, her middle son was celebrating winning the Sword of Honour at Sandhurst, his younger brother was between performances with the Royal Ballet and his older brother, an artist, was back from a sell-out residency in Dubai.Raised in a Tottenham council house, all troublemakers at school, the three have gone on to penetrate some of the world’s most prestigious institutions: Solomon, 22, is the first black British male dancer in the Royal Ballet, Kidane, 24, rose through basic army training to graduate with the top prize at the Royal Military Academy in April and Amartey, 27, has the patronage of the Dubai royal family.The brothers credit their mother with bringing them up to believe that the world was theirs for the taking. “I never felt that being disadvantaged was how I was defined,” Solomon says. “We are fiercely proud – we didn’t feel like these institutions were worlds away. No one should have to stay in their lane or accept their lot. We travelled, we heard stories of such rich experiences and history.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Maryam Golding.Maryam is an African historian, social worker and practising Rastafarian (as well as the three brothers she also has a daughter and another son still at home). It was her passion for art and dance that inspired Amartey and Solomon and her iron discipline that convinced Kidane the army could never be tougher than home.“He said the woman sergeant-major wasn’t as scary as me,” says Maryam. Kidane rolls his eyes. “She wasn’t a sergeant-major. She was a bombardier. Yeah, it’s true though.”Though other newspapers have told the story of her sons, Maryam has stayed out of the limelight until now and contacted the Guardian. She says she has decided to speak out because she feels part of their story has been overlooked – how mixed-race, working-class young men like them are so often discriminated against and demonised. This is not the simple story of bad boys being made good by the discipline of the army or a dance company.“We raised them conscious of their identities,” she says. “We spoke about Ethiopia’s history as an independent kingdom which had never been colonised. They loved The Three Musketeers so we spoke about how Alexandre Dumas was mixed race. You drop it in – you don’t sit them down and explain it. Each of my children has taken it to different paths.”Born in south London and expelled twice from convent schools, Maryam spent her 20s as a community worker, working with women and girls in Tottenham, north London. When the funding was cut, she went to the School of Oriental and African Studies (Soas) to study African history.Her father had served in the Royal Artillery during the second world war and later ran a newspaper in Ethiopia, where he had an audience with Haile Selassie. The emperor made a lasting impression on him, something Maryam absorbed; and she in turn was determined to bring up her children with an understanding of their heritage as mixed-race British children. When you’re mixed race, to know the black culture and history you have inside of you is really important and really richKidane Cousland On the walls and shelves of the family home, as well as Amartey’s prints and photographs of Solomon in his leotard, are treasures from their travels to Jamaica and their years in Ghana. “When you’re mixed race, living in London – and you do have to face a lot of prejudice – to know the black culture and history you have inside of you is also really important and really rich, it allows you to develop a strong identity,” says Kidane.Despite their rich cultural life, the family often had very little. “It was secondhand market clothes. I used to make them African outfits with knitted hats,” says Maryam. All three boys were exceptionally close to her Jamaican husband, Ras I Golding. Though their biological father was Ghanaian, Golding is the man they consider their dad and also the father of their two youngest siblings. All have taken his surname except Kidane, who uses Maryam’s maiden name, Cousland. Golding died in 2009 and all three boys cite him as a major influence on their chosen paths.When the children were young, the family moved to Jamaica and later Ghana, where Amartey and Kidane say they experienced a different kind of racism. “In Ghana, they would call us white. And you realise you’re not black or white – you just have to roll with it. From a young age, you realise people try to put you in boxes and we don’t fit. So we made our own boxes.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kidane Cousland was awarded the Sword of Honour at the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst in April 2016. Photograph: Cpl Jamie Dudding/ArmyBack in the UK, it was tough for the family who spent time living in a bug-infested bed and breakfast, while the three boys struggled in mainstream education. Amartey moved away from the family to the YMCA in Cambridge and later went to art school – Central Saint Martins in London – and Solomon joined the Royal Ballet School.Kidane was 16 and in the marine cadets, about to resit his GCSEs, when he joined the army. “At school, I wasn’t the best at anything,” he says. “I found the knack to soldiering was being prepared to work harder than anyone else. Work harder, endure more cold or crawl into the nastiest smelling bush to hide, that would be success. And I was always prepared to go through more agony than anyone else. If that doesn’t mean that it’s a calling or a passion, I don’t know what is,” he says.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Solomon Golding rehearsing with the Royal Ballet. Photograph: Royal Opera House“I knew that I didn’t have the academic background to be an officer – I was heavily dyslexic. So I thought, I’ll join and get commissioned from the ranks, like Sharpe. I watched a lot of Sharpe.”Though very much now a model soldier, a sharp dresser with closely cropped hair, a stark contrast to three of his siblings’ and mother’s Rastafarian dreads, Kidane says he has not compromised the values he was brought up with. “I think it has been about wanting to succeed on my own terms. I have been vegetarian my entire career, even though people expressed concern about that, through arduous physical training courses, commando training, in a six-month-tour of Afghanistan, not just keeping up but being better.”For his mother, to watch him be admitted and then excel at the Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst has been “bittersweet, if I’m honest”, Maryam admits. “I’m still conflicted. I was worried, of course, when he went into the officer training. Discrimination in that class structure can be more insidious because it’s not, ‘I’m going to smash your face in.’ But at the ball, he couldn’t move for people shaking his hand. And I do think it is worthwhile for people to have him as a role model.”Solomon found ballet school difficult at first. Aged 10, he had been attending classes for a little over six months when his teacher called round to the house to tell him to apply for the school. Before that, his dancing had been limited to teaching his school friends Spice Girl routines in the playground.Once he started classes as a beginner, Solomon says he always felt something was holding him back. “I didn’t feel racism per se, but I felt like an outsider because I was so new to ballet. I didn’t know the history of ballet, of composers, of choreographers. It’s weird to think that there were 11-year-olds established in the ballet world, but there were.“I didn’t have the first clue and they made me feel like I didn’t want or care about it enough because I didn’t know these things. I was coming top three in my class and not being cast in the front. Then I was the only one in the year who got into the Royal Ballet.”The establishment awaits the three brothers now, with Kidane an army officer, Solomon starring in A Winter’s Tale at the Royal Opera House, and Amartey back from his time as an artist-in-residence for Sheikha Lateefa bint Maktoum of Dubai, after numerous sell-out exhibitions, and his next project set to be an artistic collaboration with Solomon. “Dubai has a huge art market, loads of galleries, but no one there is actually making art,” he says. “The residency gave me creative space to develop. Now I have the freedom to do exhibitions I really care about.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Morning of the Sacrifice by Amartey Golding. Photograph: Amartey GoldingRecent weeks have been a whirlwind for the family since they stood at Sandhurst’s Old College Square, watching Kidane receive one of the British military’s highest honours, ahead of all the Oxbridge graduates, and the full story of the family’s impressive achievements began to trickle out. “We’ve always been extraordinary,” Amartey laughed. “We’ve always said that. And this is just the beginning. In this small family, we all keep each other balanced, keep everything in perspective.”For Maryam, the successes of her children are important not just for the family, but for the path she feels they are forging for others. “My husband always said he didn’t want the kids to just do well, he wanted them to break down barriers. And they are.”