I had just read a very long book and my brain ached and I wasn’t feeling very inspired to pick up another book until I found a book that I had seen all over the internet with good reviews beaming. It wasn’t very long, the words were relatively big – the perfect book to bring me back into reading after the onslaught I had just received.Patrick Ness’ A Monster Calls is the story of a young boy who is coping with the diagnosis of his mother’s cancer. And yes, a monster does call. Before I had even begun to immerse myself in the book, I was intrigued by the author’s note that humbly told of the novel’s beginning. The author wrote that the initial idea had stemmed from that of Siobhan Dowd and that he only knew her as an author, only through her books. I found this strangely endearing to hear – as if we, the readers, were starting from the same page as the author, which was comforting. Sadly, Siobhan Dowd died of cancer before she could write the book that Patrick Ness has finished and this feels as though it is very applicable to the story which follows. Although there may be an ending, there is always a seed of an idea which someone can nurture and grow into a tall tree. You’ll see what I mean when you read the book. A certain rawness was projected throughout the book, it didn’t seem stand offish, it didn’t seem showy at all and that was what I loved. Although the main concept is fantastical, as this is a fantasy novel, the nakedness of the surrounding world made it seem cohesive as an idea. The brutality of some scenes totally shatters the illusion of a weak boy but i had never though of Conor as a weak character. From the first chapter in which he wakes up and gets ready for school, making breakfast as his Mum stays asleep, it became apparent that he might be the strongest of all the characters. That his resilience was persistent. Although this was the work of two authors, it had been skilfully brought together to create an idea that seemed to mesh. I found that what made this book special was the relationships that Ness had displayed so beautifully within the book that is quite short and has quite a big font. Conor, the protagonist in the novel, is a thirteen-year-old, ordinary boy who is having to deal with extraordinary problems within his life. He receives assistance from his grandma and his father and another strange character that came knocking on his bedroom window one night but I found that he seemed to be alone. Conor singularly seems to be coping with his grief and this may seem to be an accurate representation of what grieving is like. How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? Although it seemed that many things were lost within the novel, I also felt that many were gained. So, yes, it is a little book but it also contains a punch that will last with you until you pick it up again to reread your favourite parts. I guarantee you will have some!Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!