The cycling commentator David Duffield, who has died aged 84, spanned many fields in his chosen sport: as tricycle record-breaker, small-wheel cycle trailblazer, race announcer and marketing man. He was best known, however, as the voice of cycling on British satellite television for more than 20 years.A distinctive figure thanks to his lanky build and enthusiastic mannerisms, he commentated on the international cycling calendar for Eurosport until he was well into his 70s, sometimes solo, sometimes accompanied by a retired star such as Sean Kelly or Stephen Roche. The hours of coverage called for considerable reserves of stamina, while the lack of action during most of the broadcasts required an ability to adlib at length.He achieved this partly with the help of a personal card-index system, but mainly through a process of free association: the cycle race, its characters and its surroundings served as a point of departure for digressions into anecdote, frequently personal – his pet rabbit, the wine he had drunk for dinner the previous evening or his prostate treatment in hospital. Duffield had immense technical knowledge of cycling minutiae, but eschewed talking about such details to avoid putting off the uninitiated: his imaginary target audience was, apparently, a “widow at home”, whom he nicknamed Pearl. Dramatic sprint finishes would be prefaced with a warning to send the elderly or nervous out of the room.For the viewer Duffield was either a surreal entertainer or a constant irritant. He inspired at least one devoted fan site, We Love David Duffield, and drew the attention of the Guardian’s former sport TV critic Martin Kelner, who wrote: “Forget the riders, what is David Duffield on?” Duffield, he wrote, had been covering bike racing since the birth of the Eurosport channel, and “expects any day now to complete his first sentence”.Underneath the buffoonery, Duffield loved cycling with the eternal passion of the amateur, so much so that in 2000, when Chris Boardman concluded his career with an hour record (the distance cycled in one hour) set under new rules, Duffield made a point of walking out of his commentary box as the start gun fired to express his disapproval at the way the rules had been changed.Duffield was born in Wolverhampton into a family of four children; his mother was a nurse, his father an architect. After beginning working life at White Advertising in Birmingham, he was conscripted – rising to the rank of sergeant in the army – but more importantly was introduced to cycling by a fellow soldier. In the late 1950s he specialised in the arcane field of tricycle racing, setting records for 100 miles and the Land’s End to John O’Groats distance, the latter in a time of three days, 12 hours and 15 minutes. Simultaneously he worked as a marketing man in the then buoyant British cycle industry, helping to publicise the radical small-wheeled Moulton bike, one of the defining designs of the 60s.To prove that Moultons could be as fast as conventional large-wheel machines, he set a Cardiff to London record in 1962, at a time of six hours 42 minutes for the 162 miles. The connection with the company lasted the rest of his life. Duffield also worked in marketing for Raleigh – where he was involved in setting up the powerful TI-Raleigh professional team – and for Halfords, where he helped to supply the 65 bikes used in the nude photoshoot for the poster that accompanied the classic Queen single Bicycle Race in 1978.He began working as a race announcer in 1967 at the Skol Six, a six-day track event held at the Empire Pool, Wembley, when the regular “speaker” fell sick and he was asked to pick up the microphone in his stead. He ended up working as an announcer at major events such as the round Britain Milk Race, sometimes forming a double act with the multiple world champion Hugh Porter.The pair would introduce the riders at the start and keep crowds informed as the race unfolded – at the Milk Race from a car along the route – before “talking in” the finish. Duffield brought a showman’s touch to the role, sporting loud bow ties and a straw hat. His talents and eccentricity took him to Eurosport at the satellite station’s inception in 1989, and he finally left the commentary box in 2010.He is survived by his wife, Jackie, and by his brother, Eddie.• David Duffield, sports commentator, born 20 May 1931; died 21 February 2016