From the multiple repetitive gags about kicking Colossus in his metal crotch, to the jokes about getting shot in one’s instantly regenerating asshole, to the hoary wink-wink about Batman and Robin being gay, Deadpool assures you, over and over, that the people watching aren’t supposed to be children. “He insists on being a child,” Colossus says of the titular star towards the beginning of Deadpool. It’s a striking line, given the fact that the film has been much marketed and discussed as a superhero film for adults; it’s already as famous for its R rating (and record-breaking box office run) as for anything that happens in the movie itself.Deadpool: ‘I don’t think my mom is going to be able to watch it’ And yet, there’s Colossus, saying that the main character isn’t an adult. What age group is supposed to be the target audience here, anyway?That’s a longstanding question for the superhero genre. Today superhero films are often aimed at grown-ups, and that trend looks likely to become even more entrenched with the success of Deadpool. The next Wolverine film has been given an R rating, and it was recently announced that the Batman v Superman film would have an R-rated DVD director’s cut. But historically, superheroes have been perceived as for kids, being billed as “adolescent power fantasies”.The idea that adults could respectably enjoy tales of spandex-clad do-gooders hitting each other has been a long time coming. Alan Moore and David Gibbons’ 1987 Watchmen was a breakthrough moment and, like Deadpool, dealt with adult themes, including sex, violence and homosexuality. Watchmen approached those issues in a more (though not entirely) serious vein, but the subtext worked in a similar way. A world in which Nite Owl needs to worry about how to take his suit off to go to the bathroom is an adult world, as is one in which Deadpool dates a sex worker or gets cancer. Bam, pow: comics aren’t just for kids any more.Comics fans hate that tag line. But the funny thing is, the “Bam! Pow!” was popularized by the 1960s Batman TV show, which was adamantly not (just) for kids. Adam West Batman didn’t say “shit”, of course. On the contrary, the adult part of the TV series was that he so flagrantly, joyously, nudgingly did not say “shit”. Instead Robin declared: “Holy Long John Silver!” Meanwhile Batman drank cool, refreshing milk; the supervillains used knock-out gas so no one really got hurt; and slinky female villains threw themselves at the bat bulge only to be stoically rebuffed.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Oh, and in an episode featuring Liberace, Bruce and Dick literally rush into a burning closet. The show was high, conscious camp, and while the winking was in part a gay goof, it was also a developmental one. Batman was an adult’s view of a kids’ view of adult heroes, who were super square, always prepared, and always whip out the clearly labeled can of Shark Repellant Bat Spray in the nick of time. Those adult authority figures are both good and good at everything: a fantasy for a kid, and a joke for the adults who know it isn’t true. Superhero stories, then, have long been obsessed with that odd, transformative space between being a child, filled with wonder and imagination, and being an adult, filled with power. Disfigured heroes like Deadpool help people like me fight prejudice In CC Beck and Otto Binder’s Shazam! (a whimsical series which adults have critically validated) the young newsboy Billy Batson enters an abandoned subway tunnel and emerges not just with mystical powers and a cape, but with the body of a fully grown man. Captain Marvel took the Superman archetype and cleverly exposed its inner workings. Clark Kent, Bruce Wayne, Peter Parker: they’re all kids, dreaming of the time when they’ll be able to lift amazing weights, drive in cool cars, ride on space kangaroos and engage in awesome surf battles.Or alternately, maybe Clark and Bruce and Peter are the boring, staid adults, wearing suits and going off to their mundane jobs but dreaming of that childhood where they wore their underwear on the outside and had loopy dreams of saving the world from evil monkey masterminds. Superhero stories are (most of the time) written by adults, after all. Which means they’re very often a conversation between grown-ups and kids about what it means to be one, or the other, or both.Deadpool’s constant cursing and R rating suggest it’s not part of that conversation, or doesn’t want to be. But it can’t seem to help itself. The film’s forced wisecracking and self-aware fourth-wall chatter to the audience papers over a slew of not-particularly-self-aware anxieties: about commitment, about ageing, about death, about power. Under that expressionless mask, Deadpool vacillates neurotically. Does Wade want to grow up and be a superman? Or does he want go grow young, back out of his wrinkles and never die?You can slap an R rating on your film, but the child still haunts the superman, as dream and dreamer. It’s a genre that will never grow up, because it’s about what it means to want to be, and not to be, grown.