It’s January 2005 and the lift doors open for the very first time in the Dragons’ Den. In walks Graham Whitby, managing director of Baby Dream Machine Ltd. He wants a £150,000 investment in his automated pram-rocking machine but, in a performance to rival Joe Beazley’s traumatic turn with Cheeky Monkey on Knowing Me Knowing You, Graham fluffs his lines, time after time. He leaves with nothing. Fast-forward 12 years and the good news is that Graham has gone on to make a success of his business. The bad news is that Dragons’ Den is still on TV.Based on Japanese show Money Tigers, Dragons’ Den invited entrepreneurs to pitch to/beg for investment from people who were considerably richer than them, invariably at the risk of personal humiliation. It boasted a five-strong panel of business types – telecommunications giant Peter Jones, one-time ice-cream man Duncan Bannatyne, Rachel Elnaugh of Red Letter Days, computer whizz Doug Richard and YO Sushi!’s Simon Woodroffe – who crunched the numbers before making supplicants an offer (unlikely) or declaring themselves “out” (almost inevitable). At times, it was must-see TV. Informative on one hand and watch-through-your-fingers funny on the other, it was inspirational, albeit in a “Well, if they can get £50k for ice-cream for dogs, so can I” kind of way.Airing on BBC2, Dragons’ Den hit its straps by series seven and, although it never moved to BBC1, it was pulling in more than 4 million viewers and so remained one of the jewels in the channel’s crown. That success was thanks largely to the classic seasons five to eight lineup of Jones, Bannatyne, Theo Paphitis, Deborah Meaden and James Caan. Tough, impenetrable, uncompromising: they were like George Graham’s Arsenal defence, only stingier. Household names such as Reggae Reggae Sauce were born on their watch, while others such as the Tangle Teezer hairbrush slipped through the Dragons’ sausage fingers. All anybody wanted to see were the stinkers, though. Remember the Goodbye Mr Pet burial pack that put the fun back in funeral? Or necklaces for singletons?It all changed in 2011 when Caan was replaced with Hilary Devey, or “Yoko” as I prefer to call her. With a fortune pocketed from pallets, the First Lady of Freight brought something new and different to the Den, in much the same way that Cruella de Vil brought something new and different to the fashion world. Her arrival ushered in an era where superciliousness became the Dragons’ default setting. She even pushed Bannatyne along to the wilderness of the fifth seat. Mind you, her shoulder pads were huge.There has been a raft of changes in the other chairs, too. And while the show has survived personnel upheaval, what it can’t survive, surely, is the strictest test of all; time. Dragons’ Den has long since become a predictable parody of itself, with each episode a carbon copy of the last.Of course, in an ideal world, free from commercial concerns, there would be a clinic, probably in Switzerland, where those TV formats in terminal decline could be taken and given the dignified ending they may or may not deserve. In the absence of such a place, however, it’s probably best that the show just takes a minute to go to the back of the Den and have a word with itself. As for me, I’m out.