Last year it was poor old Grace of Monaco and Tim Burton’s Big Eyes that failed to live up to lofty expectations. Following this year’s Oscar nominations, we now know of a whole new set of Oscar-tipped films that are destined to be mainly enjoyed on planes.Oscar nominations 2016: The Revenant leads field, Mad Max in second place The curse of the Oscarbait – AKA the films that studios pitched directly at academy voters – has struck some fresh victims, leaving them all dressed up with nowhere to go. Because they haven’t been invited.Our Brand is Crisis   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Our Brand is Crisis.Sandra Bullock’s first role since Gravity seemed destined to bring her yet more awards glory. While director David Gordon Green is hardly known as an Oscar favourite – his movies have veered from lo-fi (George Washington) to lowbrow (Pineapple Express) – the film still looked like a winner. Based on an award-winning political documentary of the same name, and produced by the Argo team of George Clooney and Grant Heslov, it still somehow fizzled. It was launched at the Toronto film festival to underwhelmed reviews and was one of the year’s biggest box-office flops in the US, making just $7m from a $28m budget.Freeheld      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Freeheld. Photograph: Phil Caruso/APJulianne Moore’s best actress win for the sensitively handled Alzheimer’s drama Still Alice had some predicting another win for her role in this polemic. It seemed like a safe bet, with Moore playing a gay police officer diagnosed with terminal cancer, and fighting for her partner’s rights to her pension. But a glitzy Toronto premiere couldn’t mask the stink that came from a shoddily made and disappointingly performed turkey, that was ridiculed for perpetuating stereotypes, as well as making an interesting story seem incredibly dull. The Program   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Program.From the standard set of year-end biopics, Stephen Frears’s take on the disgraced cyclist Lance Armstrong seemed like one of the most intriguing. A fascinating central figure of murky morals and an up-to-date story anchored by what appeared to be a well-judged performance by Ben Foster made it appear to be a surefire awards contender. But while the reviews were solid, they were rarely glowing, and the film was lost within the conversation. Despite an international release, the film hasn’t even been shared with US audiences yet.Oscar nominations 2016: the snubs, surprises and sure things – in pictures Suffragette   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Suffragette.When #FilmHerStory started trending, it shone a light on the disappointing lack of female-fronted biopics. Important women from history have been given short shrift on the big screen, but it seemed as if this British drama would take an important step in the right direction. But, despite the performances from Carey Mulligan and Oscar-magnet Meryl Streep, the film was met with a shrug. Earnest to a fault and failing to ignite passions as a film about the suffragette movement really should, it’s been notably absent during awards season.Truth      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Truth.For a short while, it appeared as if Cate Blanchett would be competing against herself at this year’s Oscars, with roles in both Todd Haynes’s acclaimed romance Carol and this fact-based journalism thriller. With Blanchett playing CBS producer Mary Mapes opposite Robert Redford as news anchor Dan Rather, the film seemed like an easy win. But a bag of mixed reviews and non-existent box office returns have led it to fall by the wayside. Now, Blanchett has to compete with actors other than herself.Demolition      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Demolition.Director Jean-Marc Vallée has a strong track record at the Oscars, with Dallas Buyers Club and Wild scoring wins and nominations for the actors involved. But any hopes that Jake Gyllenhaal and Naomi Watts had of being recognised for their work in comedy-drama Demolition were dashed by a script best described as “Zach Braff-lite”. Even distributor Fox Searchlight seemed to recognise it wouldn’t work with voters. Despite opening last September’s Toronto film festival, it won’t hit cinemas until April.Concussion      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Concussion.After a string of bad choices threatened his status as a box-office golden boy, Will Smith opted for something less grandiose in the NFL-baiting drama Concussion. And while the film has made headlines, it failed to be the career-saving critical hit he so desperately needed. Middling box office and hammy elements have turned an intriguing proposition into a frustrating non-starter.