The private islandIf you’re struggling to get a mortgage, paying exorbitant rental prices, or simply in need of a getaway, why not follow in Richard Branson’s shoes and buy a private island instead? For as little as £100,000 (less than many central London car parking spaces), you could be the owner of a little island in Ireland, or even Fiji.“We had a young couple in their 30s come to us who were renting an apartment,” says Chris Krolow, CEO of Private Islands Inc, “and, instead of buying a place on the mainland, they bought an island on Georgian Bay in Lake Huron, Canada, with beautiful views for £265,000 (CAD$500,000) and built a place of their own.”A simple internet search for reasonably priced private islands can produce a few surprises. There’s everything from Inishbigger off the west coast of Ireland for £60,000, which will give you 13 acres of grazing land and peat, to an island off the coast of Sweden for £80,000 that comes with two separate houses, or even co-ownership of an island in the Bahamas with state-of-the-art facilities for £317,000 – less than the average cost of a property in the south-east of England.So the ultimate dream can become a reality. Indeed, a growing number of people are buying islands as trophies. “They don’t even visit the island, they just have a picture of it on their office wall or at home to present to friends/colleagues, knowing all the time that if they get stressed or depressed they can simply retreat there for peace and quiet,” says Farhad Vladi, president of Vladi Private Islands.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The quickest route is to buy a freehold island, but these are often more expensive.’ Photograph: privateislandsonline.comBut for those actually looking to live on their island, there are a lot of factors to consider, especially where and why you want to buy, what planning permission is available, travel logistics, management fees and whether the secluded life is really for you.“We get a lot of crazy people calling us. [That] goes hand in hand with buying islands,” says Krolow.“We try to gauge how serious they are by their answers to our questions. First off, which regions they are interested in. If they haven’t got a clue, then usually they haven’t got a clue. If it’s the whole world with a budget of £300,000, it’s going to take about two weeks of my time, and that will probably cost about £10,000 alone.”For those who are serious, they need to be aware the process can be costly and time-consuming before the island is ready for habitation. The quickest route is to buy a freehold island, but these are often more expensive, costing anywhere between £1m and £300m, unless you’re willing to buy in a less glamorous location. “There are beautiful islands in places like Sweden, Scotland and Canada with small properties already in place,” says Vladi.The alternative is shared ownership or leasehold in slightly more glamorous places such as Fiji, but the problem is you don’t own the island outright, the ownership can be cancelled and, unlike freehold, the longer you own a leasehold, the less valuable the island becomes.“In Belize, you can buy an island under the category of ‘right of possession’, which is good in that you can build on it and don’t pay any taxes,” says Krolow, “but if you have any disputes, squatters or troubling neighbours then it can be problematic.“Most people who take the step of buying an island already know they want to buy one, it’s just a case of where and how.”The yacht      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We get a variety of people on our yachts, from sailors keen to try before they buy to first-timers who are like: ‘Blimey, can I really do this?’’ Photograph: Getty ImagesOver the coming months, the media will be saturated with images of A-listers such as Leonardo DiCaprio and Lewis Hamilton sunning themselves on superyachts in stylish locations. You can do the same for as little as £50 a night.An Airbnb-style site, bedsonboard.com, offers guests the chance to stay onboard luxury yachts and be waited on hand and foot by a professional crew. There are hundreds to choose from all over the world, including the Southern Cross in Barcelona, which was built for the royal family and has since been owned by major celebrities. Yours for £90 a person.The process is straightforward: once customers register, they can make bookings after specifying their dates, the number of people and payment method. The owners then have 48 hours to accept or reject requests.The only drawback is you won’t be sailing (or motoring) off into the sunset as the yachts are moored at all times during your stay. They’re basically like floating hotels, but with the cachet of being able to stroll around the deck like you own the vessel.“We get a variety of people calling up to stay on our yachts, from experienced sailors keen to try before they buy to first-timers who are like: ‘Blimey, can I really do this?’” says Tim Ludlow, co-founder of Beds on Board. “We’ve been doing this for a year, and now have a variety of vessels to offer, including a 120ft towboat on the Mississippi river.”Sun, sea and silver service: what’s it like crewing on a superyacht? Beds on Board is not alone in the static yacht accommodation market, though. There are other specialists, such as staticboatholidays.com, and even the likes of Airbnb and Trip Advisor advertise moored vessel accommodation. Plus, for those who wish to push the boat out and actually charter, there are inexpensive options, including sites such as clickandboat.com offering everything from speedboats to barges.The private jet      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The captain won’t fly until you and your fellow travellers are ready.’ Photograph: Privatefly/Courtesy of CessnaWhy spend hours parking your car miles from the main terminal, queuing to drop off your luggage and buying an oversized Toblerone in duty free, when you and friends can be driven directly to the steps of your own private jet and fly off to Paris for as little as £100?Hard to believe, but this scenario is possible thanks to peer-to-peer site privatefly.com – you just need to be a little flexible with your dates and timings.“We provide access to [anything] from small four-seater propeller planes to converted Boeing 737 business jets complete with state rooms, showers, bars and all sorts,” explains PrivateFly’s CEO, Adam Twidell, a former RAF pilot.The booking process works much the same way as it does for a normal airline. You put a request in for a location, date and time and you receive about 10 different aircraft options back. Costs vary depending on the length of the flight and the size of the aircraft you book.To get the cheapest seats, customers need to book on an empty leg. This is when someone has already booked to fly from, say, Nice to London Luton in the morning, and the plane then needs to reposition back to Nice in the afternoon, so PrivateFly will try to sell tickets for that journey. Prices can be as much as 80% cheaper than a normal private flight.“This is ideal for a group of friends who are flexible on locations and can pack their bags and be ready to go. It’s the element of surprise that really appeals,” says Twidell. “The obvious problem is the original customer could delay or even cancel their flight at any time, which would prevent you from flying.”But possibly the biggest draw of private-jet flying is the ease of travel and service. Customers flying from Luton, for example, would go to the separate private terminal (FBO – Fixed Base Operations) where, if they are regulars, they would head straight to the jet, or, if first-timers, would have lunch with the captain first in the lounge, and then be airborne less than five minutes later.“The captain won’t fly until you and your fellow travellers are ready,” says Twidell.Just be warned that if you fly on one of the smaller jets there’s limited space. On the Cessna Citation Mustang, for example, if you’re desperate to go, the only toilet is a spare seat known as an “emergency potty” between the passengers and the pilot, with a curtain you pull across for privacy.As with the superyachts, there are a few other private jet providers out there offering discounted flights, including new outfit StrataJet, which has access to 500 private jets.The luxury hotelThe market for luxury accommodation is bigger than ever and hotels are bending over backwards with lower prices and additional perks. The Four Seasons in Florence, for example, offers guests exclusive meals on the Ponte Vecchio, while a major hotel in Amsterdam provides guided tours of the city with a descendent of Van Gogh. Both of these stays cost from £150 a night.“There are ways to secure a quality stay without paying full whack,” says James Lohan, founder of luxury boutique hotels website Mr & Mrs Smith. “Signing up to a travel club will often mean access to exclusive deals; private-sale sites can be a great source, but look carefully before you buy – don’t be blinded by offers that chain you to travelling in the middle of the night.”Lohan also points out that, if you can, travel in a shoulder (off-peak) season. Ideally, fly midweek rather than on Friday night, and – if you don’t have children – outside of school holidays; your journey will be quieter and better value. Country-house hotels often have lower rates on weeknights.Furthermore, for long-haul trips, it pays to do your homework. In Mauritius, for example, you will see February billed as “rainy season”, but it can rain for less than an hour a day: totally manageable, especially when you see the price difference with peak season.“Hotels that require an extra leg to get to often have lower rates than those close to an airport with direct flights. If you consider a short drive through unfamiliar countryside, or a ferry ride in Greece past stunning islands, as part of the holiday you’re on to a winner,” says Lohan.