In the post-Fifty Shades era, having once hooked up with a dominatrix while you were a single man about town should hardly count as a news story. But we live in censorious times. Our government underfunds sex education while clamping down on porn access, bans the depiction of acts of female pleasure without giving any justification for doing so, and now launches consultations worrying about the amount of anal sex people are having.In this age of neo-puritanism, it figures that a senior Tory minister who once found himself dating a sex worker before he took up a position working on regulation of the press (the very press likely to pounce on such a story as an “exclusive”) might start to panic when the story finally came to light.But being scared for your own reputation shouldn’t be reason enough for you to sully somebody else’s. By stating over and over again that he had not known his former lover was a sex worker, and that he had ended the relationship immediately upon finding out, Whittingdale has thrown her to the red-top wolves, making sure to thoroughly shame her in the process. Unfortunately, Whittingdale seems blind to the fact that it’s not only his former partner he’s distanced himself from, it’s his own spine as well.Ignore ministers’ sex lives – focus on their incompetence | Simon Jenkins Here’s the thing about sex workers (and I write as a former one): they are humans, often attractive emotionally and spiritually, as well as physically, with opinions and values, interests and hobbies. When not at work, they’re just as likely to enjoy walking the dogs or cuddling up on the couch in loungewear (possibly more likely: dolling oneself up for a living is exhausting) as demanding you get yourselves to a pay-by-the-hour dungeon. And they are also just as likely to crave companionship and love, and liable to look for those things on a dating site as those that put out for free. And why shouldn’t they?Given that Whittingdale and his ex dated for six months, it is entirely plausible that he had genuine feelings for her, as evidenced by the hot-ticket events to which he took her. Perhaps he was using her, or they were using each other, but it sounds like a real relationship that probably had more than a smattering of feelings attached to it.Of course, if he were under the impression they were in a monogamous relationship, and his ex hid her line of work from him, Whittingdale might have felt a justifiable sense of betrayal. But the fact that Whittingdale was so quick to drop her when the tabloid press revealed her identity to him, and is now so keen to stress that immediacy in his defence, doesn’t come across as the reaction of a hurt yet honourable man.As for the debate asking whether Whittingdale had a right to privacy, I’d say he did – but as there are two reputations at stake here, so did his lover.Now newspapers give the John Whittingdale non-story top billing As this case so perfectly demonstrates, the stigma attached to sex work remains fierce, and the repercussions for being outed seriously grave. Regardless of how one advertises, nearly all sex workers use pseudonyms: shaded or blurred face and body shots, second mobile phones and separate work premises. And they do it because every part of society, from doctors to the police to the blood banks, judges sex workers.Incidentally, I once went on a date with a Tory MP, years after I’d retired from my work as a dominatrix. He – so I thought – had sweetly asked me to tea. Only “tea” turned out to be a euphemism. The sex wasn’t particularly memorable, but I will never forget one little exchange. “I need a date for the Buckingham Palace garden party,” he said. “But of course I couldn’t take you.” That was the first and last time I ever went near an MP.Leveson hoped to halt the press from shredding reputations, as it has done in the past. But perhaps if Whittingdale had simply had the balls to say: “I dated a sex worker – so what?”, this story of by what, and by whom, they had been squeezed wouldn’t be a story at all.