Brett Anderson is a rock star again. At 48, he finds that term “a bit superficial”, but he looks startling: he has turned up to our interview as if he is about to take to the stage – at first I think his shirt is unbuttoned nearly to the navel. In fact, a rogue button has come undone halfway down and he keeps sliding a hand over the gap, as if to conceal it; that only draws my attention to it, and I end up spending the whole conversation trying not to stare at his chest.Anderson had a few years of not being a rock star, after Suede split in 2003 – he made three solo records, an album with his former bandmate Bernard Butler as the Tears, and had to get used to being someone other than Brett Anderson out of Suede. “I suppose it did take a while,” he says. “It really taught me to stand on my own two feet, which I needed, having been in a successful band since my 20s. You just don’t grow up because everything’s done for you. Being away from Suede was really important to me personally.” But then Suede reformed in 2010, initially for a one-off gig, and have barely looked back since. The excellent album Bloodsports came out in 2013, and a new one, Night Thoughts, follows later this month.Suede – See their new video for Pale Snow Was Anderson astonished by the fervour that greeted Suede’s return? “I wouldn’t say astonished. I was extremely pleased that it seemed to land that well – when we split, we weren’t particularly mourned.”Bassist Mat Osman, to whom I speak a few days later, had been worried that Suede would be returning to a shrug of apathy. “We’d completely dropped off the radar. There was never any mention of us in the press, on TV, on the radio.” Instead, he found people coming out of the woodwork, and not just the fans who had embraced The Drowners or We Are the Pigs, 20 or so years ago. “When we play now there’s a Red Sea divide between a terrifyingly young first 20 rows, then a gap, then people who look like us. The 30-year-olds are the missing generation.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Everyone who has ever read a rock memoir or watched a documentary about a band knows there is really only one narrative: band forms, band members are thrilled by their own brilliance and the world’s reaction, band members become successful and get blase, band members get fed up of each other, get addicted to drink or drugs, make worse and worse records, split. Suede were no different. Reuniting, though, gave them a chance to revisit all the thrills of the first part of the narrative without having to face the pressures that make the second part inevitable.“That’s why this reunion has been successful,” Anderson says. “It’s been so much about righting lots of wrongs for us. It’s about looking at what we did and trying to rewrite history. You realise what an incredibly privileged position you’re in, because you don’t realise that at first – being in a band becomes real life and you don’t realise how precious it is. You think it’s always going to be the same. You think that creative energy is always going to be there. It’s not always that easy, and there are relationships that are really precious that I regret having let fall apart. You can do it better the second time.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Baring it all … Anderson in 1993. Photograph: Richard Young/REX/ShutterstockHow precious those early times are to musicians becomes vividly apparent a few days later. In the wake of David Bowie’s death, I call Suede’s original guitarist, Butler – who left in fairly bloody fashion during the making of their second album, Dog Man Star – to ask about his favourite Bowie song, and he tells me about the “golden moment” of him and Anderson, in the summer of 1991, plotting Suede and listening to Bowie’s Quicksand over and over again. He sounds like someone remembering their first serious girlfriend years later, a reminiscence that is unexpectedly moving.Anderson’s and Butler’s working relationship – singer and guitarist in competition to be more flamboyant than the other – defined the early years of Suede, before Butler left in 1994. But the group continued for another nine years after that, with a whole lot more friendships at stake. “It’s interesting what being in bands long term does to your relationships,” Anderson says. “Once you’re past the initial point where you’re fighting all the time because you’re young and you’re off your head, because there’s loads of drugs and money around – that maelstrom period – you don’t have the same kind of relationships. Me and Mat used to be very close friends, used to hang out a lot together. We’ve been in a band such a long time and spent so much downtime with each other that we don’t need to hang out any more. I’m glad we all get on now and we can tolerate each other.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Suede in 1994, left to right, Anderson, Simon Gilbert, Osman and Butler. Photograph: Gered Mankowitz/Redferns“Most comeback records are awful – it’s almost an iron rule,” Osman says. “Sometimes I look at reformed bands and wonder why the records are no good, and realise it’s because they can’t stand to be in the same room together.”Suede’s initial burst of fame in the early 90s was based on what one might call “the Suede universe”, in which stomping, glammy guitars were accompanied by lyrics about bad sex, bad drugs, tower blocks and alienation – “In your council home he jumped on your bones / Now you’re taking it time after time,” from their third single, Animal Nitrate, pretty much nailed the aesthetic. Anderson says he no longer recognises the person who wrote those songs, but recognises the strength of them, and is happy to sing them live. I mention the Who playing My Generation every show, despite the sneers about them not dying before they got old, and Anderson leaps in: “Yeah, and you hear that song and it never sounds tired, does it? It sounds so alive. When we do So Young, it’s a similar thing – I never feel as though it’s ironic. I hate irony in music, I really do. I absolutely hate it. Music is more important than that.”The problem with reuniting well into middle age was that Suede were a band of youth; even if the group wanted to avoid nostalgia by making new music, they couldn’t very well write more songs about bad sex, bad drugs, tower blocks and alienation – Anderson talks of finding “an incredibly fine balance between sounding like yourself but not being a self parody” – and so they needed to find some new voice. On Night Thoughts, then, Anderson tackles parenthood – he has a three year-old son and an 11-year-old stepson – on songs that seem riddled with fear.Anderson ponders for a moment. “Fear’s exactly the word. A lot of it is the fear that is imbued in parenthood. Before you become a parent, you think of all those cliches about how it’s going to change your life, and of course those things are absolutely true. But not for one second did I think about that absolute fear, that terrifying pit-in-the-stomach fear of losing your kids.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest If that all sounds a bit soft, then there’s a spikiness in the way Anderson talks about what he didn’t want to be doing. “I wanted to capture some of the neurosis of being a parent and it not be this” – he adopts an ingratiating, unctuous voice – “‘Aren’t I a great dad! Look at me with my kids!’ that I read so much from people in the public eye who are desperate to come across as great parents.”“I’m always interested in when lyricists grow up, in the ones who can do it and the ones who can’t,” Osman says. “I was terrified when Brett told me it was going to be about family – but the way he’s captured the terror and paranoia of family life is amazing.”Anderson remains convinced that the key thing about Suede is that they’re outsiders. I’m not so sure: they reformed to play that staple of the rock aristocracy, the Teenage Cancer Trust benefit; when they were promoting Bloodsports, they were interviewed on BBC Breakfast rather than edgy late-night programmes; and they are a band who – and you never would have said this in 1993 – convey a certain dignity. Though Anderson reckons they’re still a divisive group, they seem to me to be regarded with incredible fondness, a reminder of a time when bands weren’t focus-grouped into blandness before their first single.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Current lineup of Suede. Photograph: Steve GullickMaybe Anderson’s need to feel prickled comes from his sense that Suede is the other part of his life now, not the real part. “I’m a full-time father,” he says. “This feels like I’m putting on clothes – the other thing feels like the real thing.” But the moment he starts to sing, the character Brett Anderson out of Suede takes him over, and he chooses to become something remarkable. “If you’re standing on a stage, you’re presenting yourself as different from the audience. It’s an extraordinary thing, and I think you should be extraordinary if you step on stage.”You should be a rock star, in other words. “Well, it’s something everybody should try once in their life.”Night Thoughts is released on Rhino on 22 January. Brett Anderson, Mat Osman and director Roger Sargent discuss the film of Night Thoughts with Michael Hann at the Barbican Cinema on 20 January membership.theguardian.com/events 