Unreported World7.30pm, Channel 4Like many nations, Kenya has a problem with doping in sport. But the home of distance running is also in its own kind of trouble, as Ade Adepitan reports in this instalment of the superb foreign-correspondent documentary strand. Despite several ultimatums from the World Anti-Doping Agency, and the government promising to legislate conclusively on the issue next month, allegations of malpractice and corruption continue. Jack SealeRick Stein’s Long Weekends9pm, BBC2In the latest of his culinary sojourns, the king of seafood heads off north towards the Arctic Circle to take in the food scene in the Icelandic capital of Reykjavík. He’s aiming to create the perfect winter break, and it doesn’t really get a great deal more wintery than this. He tries out the ultimate in free-range lamb, raised on the fjords. Then it’s baking a rye bread loaf using volcanic sand, a langoustine soup, and his search for the perfect cod. Ben ArnoldThe Secret9pm, ITVFirst episode of a gripping four-parter based on an appalling real-life crime from the 90s. James Nesbitt is creepy dentist Colin Howell and Genevieve O’Reilly is Hazel Buchanan, the teacher he falls for at their Baptist church in Coleraine. The consequences of their subsequent affair snowball into something quite devastating, sending shockwaves far into their futures. Despite his unsettling wig, Nesbitt inhabits his character with total commitment. Unswitchoffable. Julia RaesideTrailblazers Of9pm, Sky ArtsFormer Slade frontman Noddy Holder narrates this 20-part look at the key moments and movers and shakers in a raft of musical genres from punk to metal and acid house. The series features rare archive footage and observations from stars, fans, producers, journos and DJs, none of which will be at all cliched, received or predictable. This week, Holder – a trailblazer of shouting – investigates the origins of disco, that glittering, bell-bottomed child of funk and soul. Ali CatterallBoomers9.30pm, BBC1Last in the series of Richard Pinto’s amiably silly sitcom about sixtysomethings – and in June Whitfield’s case, ninetysomethings – resolutely failing to behave like old folks. Tonight, Joan (Whitfield) appears to have landed herself a 70-year-old toy boy, Roy. Joyce and Maureen are convinced that he’s after her money but it turns out to be more complex than that. Good to see Paula Wilcox back on screen, so underused since Man About The House. David StubbsTwo Doors Down10pm, BBC2The sitcom about Scottish suburbia continues. The plot (Eric moves a bed into the garage; Sophie won’t name her baby’s father) is undistinguished, but makes for some strong character comedy. Colin and Cathy are a strangely believable couple, with all the idiosyncratic loyalty that that implies. When Eric sees the funny side of Cath’s therapy, Colin does not – though he’s not serious for long. “Women are easily distracted,” he explains to Eric. “Is that a dartboard?” John RobinsonHeartbeat10pm, TLC Obamacare is admirable, but when will the US healthcare system stop employing maverick medics? TV’s latest stethoscope-swinging renegade is Dr Alex Panttiere (Melissa George), a cardiothoracic surgeon who can unflinchingly fashion medical equipment from in-flight paraphernalia. All the regular boxes are firmly ticked – chaotic home life, major nemesis, troublesome kids. Nevermind a heartbeat: it’s so generic it barely registers a murmur. Mark Gibbings-JonesFilm choiceThe Way Way Back (9pm, Film4) A teenager dealing with the aftermath of his parents’ divorce finds freedom in friendships made at a kitschy theme park. Well-observed summer-holiday comedy. Paul HowlettMr Nice (Bernard Rose, 2010, 12.40am, Channel 4)Adapted from the autobiography of Howard Marks, this is a light-hearted, Bernard Rose-tinted portrait of the world’s once most famous drug trafficker. It follows his career from the Welsh valleys to Oxford University, hash smoker to 70s drug baron, dealing with the IRA, MI6 and the mafia along the way. Marks is played with guilt-free charm by Rhys Ifans. PHLive sportWorld Championship Snooker Coverage of the first semi-final. 10am, BBC2Rugby Union: Sale Sharks v Gloucester Top-flight action. 7pm, BT Sport 1Championship Football: Birmingham City v Middlesbrough Boro push for promotion. 7pm, Sky Sports 1Women’s Super League Football: Sunderland v Manchester City Early pace-setters City head to the north-east. 7.15pm, BT Sport 2