It was 20 years ago today, or almost today, that Oasis played their climactic concert at Knebworth, which means they are now safely in the category of history and are entitled to the full retrospective treatment, as in What’s The Story? The Story Of Oasis, which is available live in the middle of the night (Weekdays, 2am, 6 Music) and then at your convenience on the iPlayer. You can extend the reverse time travel into a party game by subtracting a further 20 years from 1996 and seeing how pop music looked from there. Elton John was only just on the point of coming out as bisexual, for a start.In the first of a new series of Johnnie Walker’s Long-Players (Wednesday, 10pm, Radio 2) the host and I, his honoured guest, indulge in an unashamed orgy of nostalgia over our two chosen classics from the mid-60s, the Beatles’ A Hard Day’s Night and the Byrds’ Mr Tambourine Man, two records without which nobody would be perched on a stool in a Radio 1 studio today cradling an acoustic guitar and looking wistful.What’s The Point Of Golf? (Wednesday, 9am, Radio 4), asks Quentin Letts in the first of a new series that questions the point of British obsessions and institutions. The peg is the sport’s inclusion in the Olympics for the first time. Given the absence of so many of the world’s biggest players from Rio, one is tempted to say that for the people at the top of the game the actual point is money and when it’s not there they tend not to be either.The Olympics gets under way on 5 Live at 6am on Saturday. Later in the morning we have the sitting-down sports at which the UK traditionally excels, cycling and rowing at the fore. This is interrupted by a special Olympic Fighting Talk (Saturday, 11am, 5 Live). Josh Widdicombe hosts, and the guests are Gail Emms, Paul Sinha and Rick Edwards. One suspects that there may be some banter about drugs and politics.The streaming service Spotify is starting to get into programming that could be considered more like radio. The first interview in their new Secret Genius slot is 70s producer-writer Nicky Chinn, who helpfully explains the difference between a song that makes money and a song that really makes money and explains why they always let the likes of the Sweet and Mud “have the B-side”. Spotify hasn’t yet ironed out the abrupt junctions between spoken and musical streams – you’ll find Secret Genius by searching under Spotify Originals.The book of the week is Flâneuse: Women Who Walk The Cities (Weekdays, 9.45am, Radio 4) in which author Lauren Elkin strolls great cities, thinking about distinguished women who did the same. First, she describes how the pavements of Paris and New York are different. Later in the week she follows in the footprints of Virginia Woolf, Sophie Calle and George Sand.