I’m lucky. I’ve twice spent the night with Peter Brook. The first time was in July 1985 when, along with a thousand others, I sat in a quarry 14km outside Avignon, to watch the French-language premiere of his nine-hour, dusk-to-dawn production of the Sanskrit epic the Mahabharata. The second time was in August 1987 when I saw the show’s English-language version in a boathouse on the edge of Zurich’s lake. James Joyce once said Zurich’s weather was “as uncertain as a baby’s bottom”. But I’ve never forgotten how Brook timed the production so precisely that, at its climax, the back wall of the boathouse disappeared to show the rising sun glimmering on the water. Even nature seemed to be directed by Peter Brook.Still centre stage at 90: Peter Brook, human earthquake of modern theatre These memories come flooding back because Brook, along with co-director Marie-Hélène Estienne and dramatist Jean-Claude Carrière, has revisited the Mahabharata to create a new piece, Battlefield, coming to the Young Vic in London. The original production was a three-part epic dealing with a dynastic battle for power between the related clans of the Pandavas and their cousins, the Kauravas. The new piece is a 90-minute, four-character play dealing with a single episode from the Mahabharata: one in which a victorious king, racked by guilt over the carnage he has caused, seeks to make peace with his former enemy. It is clear that Brook has chosen to tell this particular story because of its contemporary resonance. Brook is not a man to dwell on the past: he once told me with horror of a West End producer who wanted him to re-stage his famous 1970 A Midsummer Night’s Dream.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Peter Brook, left, and Jean-Claude Carrière at the Bouffes du Nord in 1987. Photograph: Julio Donoso/Sygma/CorbisIf Brook is going back to the Mahabharata, I suspect it is because the original production had much to teach us. No one would expect Brook, at 90, to come up with a monumental piece of narrative theatre. But, for all its vast scale, the original production was striking for its use of evocative magic. I remember a shower of white arrows criss-crossing in the night air, a single chariot wheel propelled across the stage to evoke the tumult of battle and Brook’s reliance on the basic elements of earth, fire and water. Archive theatre review: Krishna comes to the city of the popes The Mahabharata was an epic that eschewed Spielbergian realism to appeal to our imaginations. It was also full of contradictions. On one level, it was the story of rival factions unleashing death and destroying the universe that was their inheritance: the Pandava king had a memorable speech foreseeing the countryside turned into a desert, the waters sucked up by the sky and the scalded earth turned to dead ash. But the image of destruction was followed by a vision of paradisal harmony in which the whole cast sat on blankets to share a humble feast while music played in the background. It was that tension between political despair and affirmation of life that made the original Mahabharata emotionally moving, as well as technically brilliant. It will be fascinating to see whether Battlefield, created in even darker times, can retain that same element of residual hope. • Battlefield is at the Young Vic, London, 3-27 February. Box office: 020-7922 2922.