It was a quiet Tuesday evening last month, around 10.30pm, and I was sitting watching TV at my mother’s house. I had driven across the States from Oregon to New York and was back from college for the summer. I checked the Pokémon Go app on my phone and a creature showed up. It was a Lapras: an unusual one that I hadn’t encountered before.When I was about 12, I got the original Pokémon Yellow game on my Gameboy. My friends and I used to play it on the bus on our way to school.It was a big part of my life, so I was excited about Pokémon Go: it’s a big development in location-based and mobile gaming. I downloaded the app, and when my mother and I went on a road trip to a family get-together, I spent a lot of the journey getting to know the game.For a lot of people around my age (I’m 28) it reminds us of our childhood. Plus there’s the cool stuff, such as the characters you’re looking to catch being brought into the real world, and outdoor elements: to collect the water-type creatures you have to be by water, and you’ll find rock types near mountains. There’s the social experience, too, of meeting other players who are out looking for the same creatures.Four days after I’d got the game, I saw the Lapras was close. It’s a water-type creature, so I assumed it must be down by the nearby lake. I jumped into my younger brother’s car (I’d been helping him do it up to sell it) and drove a few minutes to get there. The game shows approximately how far away a creature is and I was trying to narrow down its location. I walked around in the dark with my phone, trying to figure out where it was. I got back in the car, still searching. As I drove through a residential neighbourhood, the app buzzed with a notification. I reached across to unlock my phone on the passenger seat. I looked over for a second, which is when I hit a tree.I don’t remember the impact; I can’t recall how fast I was going and I’m not sure if I was knocked unconscious. I remember seeing that the air bags had deployed, noticing the car had stopped and realising my right leg was trapped. I didn’t feel any pain. A woman approached the car; my memory is patchy, but I think she said something to me before calling for the emergency services. I realised pretty quickly that I’d screwed up.Experience: I was stung by one of the deadliest creatures on Earth I broke both my ankles and I suffered a deep laceration on my elbow and knee as well as cuts and bruises. I’ve got a brace on my left leg and a cast on my right; that ankle needed surgery and now has a metal plate and four screws. My phone was unrecoverable, from where the tree forced the engine through the dashboard into the interior of the car. The bonnet of the car was embedded in the tree. The whole thing had to be pulled off and scrapped.It was only when I saw the photos that I realised how badly the car was messed up. My mother put them on Facebook the next day, and wrote a post, warning people not to play the game while driving. It had more than 100,000 shares. There were nice responses, saying they were glad it wasn’t any worse. Others were less pleasant, like “I wish he’d hit the tree harder”. It didn’t bother me – it’s what you expect from the internet, but my mother was upset.It’s been embarrassing. I did something that I shouldn’t have been doing and I definitely know better now. The funny thing is, I don’t answer phone calls or check texts when I drive. But I put my usual caution aside and it didn’t turn out well. I’m glad I didn’t hurt anyone else. I feel lucky it wasn’t worse.The police gave me a couple of tickets – for use of an electronic device while driving, and failure to stay within my lane. I feel bad for destroying my brother’s car and plan to pay him back. I don’t blame the game for what I did; I admit I screwed up.I didn’t catch the Lapras. I’ve got a new phone now and I downloaded the game again. But it’s going slowly. I’m not quite as mobile as I was.• As told to Candice PiresDo you have an experience to share? Email experience@theguardian.com