Lancashire county council has once again deferred its decision on whether to approve the UK’s first full scale fracking.A decision will now be taken on Monday on whether to allow fracking for shale gas on a site at Preston New Road near Little Plumpton on the Fylde Coast.Lancashire has been at the forefront of the UK’s nascent shale gas industry, an issue that has divided opinion in the county. Last week the council’s planning officers recommended the energy company Cuadrilla be granted permission drill at four exploration wells on the site, subject to a number of conditions being met, such as hours of working, control of noise and highway matters. A separate application would be required if Cuadrilla wishes to progress to commercial fracking. But after a tense and often baffling day in county hall in Preston on Wednesday, councillors agreed – to loud boos and heckles – to defer a decision on the application until Monday.Earlier in the day it had appeared the panel was minded to reject the proposal, prompting cries of jubilation among 100 or so protesters gathered outside. The development control committee’s deputy chairman, councillor Kevin Ellard (Labour), had argued the application did not meet various local planning guidelines, such as visual impact and landscape. “We owe it to ourselves and to future generations to get it right now. We can not afford to gamble with the environment,” he told the packed chamber.Then in a dramatic twist, “secret” legal advice was given to the councillors, apparently warning that there were no legal grounds for such a rejection. As a result, the councillors said they needed to seek further legal advice to see if the grounds for refusal were valid.Paul Hayhurst, an independent councillor, said: “The fact is that members of the committee have been given legal advice that have tied their hands and it has been a waste of time us being here the last few days. I think that the legal advice must be shown to the public.” This is the third time the decision has been deferred, prompting many present to mutter that the proceedings had been farcical.Afterwards, some protesters in the council chamber staged a brief sit-in following the decision to adjourn, with some shouting at the chair Munsif Dad to express their dismay.Outside, Natalie Bennett, leader of the Green party, said the councillors were in a near impossible position: “If you listen to the strain in the councillors’ voices here, it’s obvious to feel the huge amount of pressure they’re under. They’re being told if you make a decision against Cuadrilla it could be really expensive for the council. When David Cameron talks about localism I’d ask him to think about the way rules allow local councillors to make the decisions they want to make and their voters want to make. There clearly is a huge issue here,” she said.Barbara Richardson, chair of the Roseacre Awareness Group, which opposes a second application by Cuadrilla to frack for shale gas at Roseacre Wood, ten miles inland from Blackpool, said she did not understand what was going on.“One word to describe today is confusing,” she said. “I’m not clear what’s going on. It’s not been very transparent and the public should be aware of what’s going on.”Planning officials recommended the Roseacre application be turned down because of the increase in traffic which would result in “an unacceptable impact” on rural roads and reduce road safety. Councillors are still due to decide on that case by the end of the week.Francis Egan, Cuadrilla’s chief executive, said: “As with all planning applications there is a procedure and process which is ongoing and as the applicant we await a final determination.”Fracking was suspended in the UK in 2011 following minor earthquakes in Blackpool where Cuadrilla previously drilled, with the suspension only lifted at the end of 2012. 