The summer went by in a blur, as I zipped up and down the country for weddings and family dos, juggling shifts on the labour ward and worrying about that medical exam I should be revising for. Now, autumn has us firmly in its hold and I’m desperately craving a night in – curled up on the sofa with a giant bowl of popcorn and a decent film. I have pretty varied tastes: obscure Korean horrors, explosion-filled Hollywood blockbusters, heartfelt romcoms or low-budget indie classics – any of those would be fine. The one rule is that it can’t be anything I’m supposed to enjoy on an ironic level: the 105 minutes I spent watching Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter will for ever haunt me.Movie night is all about cosying up on the sofa and munching on comfort food. It’s not the healthiest menu but put those pitchforks away, clean-eaters! After a month of drinking spinach smoothies on a well-intentioned health kick, I’ve earned a night off. Besides, I make no apologies for fried chicken, surely one of the pinnacles of modern civilisation. As most of my nights out tend to end with me sitting on the sofa eating some variation of this crisp deliciousness, it makes a pretty natural choice for a planned night in.And, of course, no home cinema experience would be complete without a giant bowl of popcorn. Homemade popcorn always seemed to add an air of authenticity to movie nights when I was a kid. Despite the fact that popcorn has the most obscene markup of any food, I’ve never been to the cinema without buying a box. I always used to feel awkward when asked to choose between salted or sweet (“A bit of both please, but not in layers, it needs to be mixed together. If that’s not too much trouble”). My recipe for butterscotch popcorn has both, so no need to choose. Trust me: for that Korean-horror-indie-romcom-blockbuster, there is no more perfect accompaniment.Spicy fried chicken(Serves 4)For the marinade:500g natural yoghurt3 tbsp milkPinch of salt8 pieces chicken, on the bone, skin onFor the coating:200g plain flour1 tsp baking powder1 tsp sea salt1 tsp ground black pepper1 tsp ground all-spice1 tsp cayenne pepper1 tsp table salt2 tsp onion powderTo fry:500ml vegetable oilThe night before, mix together the yoghurt, milk and salt and place in a bowl with the chicken pieces. Cover with clingfilm and refrigerate.Thirty minutes before you want to cook, remove the chicken pieces from the yoghurt and put on a plate.Mix together all the ingredients for the coating in a large bowl.Pour the oil in a pan and heat to about 160C/320F.Take a piece of chicken, cover it well in the flour mix and shake off any excess, then carefully place it in the hot oil. Fry in batches and don’t overcrowd the pan or the oil will cool down.Using tongs, turn the pieces over a few times during cooking until browned – about 8-10 minutes.Place the pieces on a tray in the oven at 200C/350F/gas mark 4 for about 10-15 minutes, until cooked through.Garlicky potato wedgesThis is my easy go-to that perfectly accompanies the chicken.(Serves 4)5 cloves garlic5 tbsp vegetable oil700g potatoes½ tsp saltCrush the garlic cloves and gently warm with the vegetable oil in a large saucepan.Cut each potato into thin wedges (eight long pieces a spud) and coat with the garlic oil.Transfer to a tray and sprinkle with salt.Bake at 220C/425F/gas mark 7 until golden brown – about 40 minutes.Cola sauceAs the only “cooking” here involves boiling some cola, it’s not the most laborious recipe, but it is delicious. Also, the lime is the greenest thing you’ll be consuming in the entire meal.(Serves 4)2 cans of coke2 limes, juiced4 tsp soy sauce½-1 tsp English mustard, depending on your tasteHeat the coke in a saucepan on medium until greatly reduced in volume and just starting to thicken.Remove from the heat and stir in the lime, soy and mustard.Butterscotch popcornAs much as I love homemade popcorn, I always ended up with burnt bits on the bottom of the pan until a friend showed me this method.(Serves 4)120g caster sugar¼ tsp table salt1 tbsp golden syrup or runny honey, to help prevent the caramel crystallising (optional)3 tbsp vegetable oil120g corn50g unsalted butterPour the sugar, salt and syrup (if using) into a small saucepan with just enough boiling water to dissolve it, and place on a medium-high heat.In a separate large lidded pan, pour in the oil on a medium-high heat, along with five of the corn kernels.Once the kernels have all popped, add the remaining corn and, with the lid firmly held in place on the pan, give it a quick swirl to ensure the all the kernels are coated in the oil. Return to the heat.Once the corn starts popping, leave the lid slightly ajar to let the steam escape.Once the caramel has turned a deep amber colour, drop in the butter and bring it back to bubbling, giving the pan a few swirls to mix.Pour the butterscotch over the popcorn and, using long serving spoons, turn the popcorn over until it is evenly coated. You’ll need to work quickly as the butterscotch will quickly harden as it cools.