The news that Richard Dawkins' Oxford neighbour has tried to scare away pigeons for defecating on his fleet of classic cars will come as no surprise to those of us who follow the fortunes of Britain's garden birds.Earlier this year two Wiltshire pensioners were given asbos for continuing to feed pigeons, whose presence causes more neighbourhood disputes than any other bird.Nor should we be surprised that, as a biologist, Dawkins defends the pigeons' right to poo. After all, as he points out, our garden birds are part of our national heritage, and well worth preserving rather than chasing away.This dispute raises wider questions about our attitudes not just towards pigeons, but to all the birds that visit our gardens. For even among bird-lovers, there is a clear differentiation between friends and enemies, or, if you prefer, heroes and villains.When it comes to friends, the robin is always top of the league table. This charming little bird is a symbol of the enduring friendship between humans and the bird world – an emissary from the wild come to fill our hearts with joy.What a pity, then, that the robin is in reality the most vicious, violent and thuggish of all garden birds. If there were asbos for birds themselves, then every robin in Britain would have one. The males in particular will not allow any rivals into their territory, and will fight intruders, sometimes to the death.Our national inability to judge the robin's true character is reflected in our prejudice towards the behaviour of other garden birds. This particularly applies to the twin rivals for Britain's most hated bird: the magpie and the sparrowhawk.I blame the way in which TV makeover programmes have encouraged us to think of our garden as somehow an extension to our home - a kind of outdoor room. Logically, then, when a predatory bird like the sparrowhawk simply follows its instincts and seizes a blue tit from the seed feeder, it is as if someone has committed murder on our living-room carpet.Yet sparrowhawks have to eat and feed their young, just like blue tits. No one condemns the latter for "murdering" thousands of moth caterpillars every breeding season. Likewise, although we are quick to condemn the showy magpie, I haven't heard any calls to cull the great-spotted woodpecker, which is equally adept at plundering the nests of songbirds.Ultimately, the way we treat our garden birds as some kind of soap opera to keep us entertained is not a very sensible way to view the natural world. Instead they are simply doing what all wild creatures do: taking advantage of us in order to survive. And if that means pooing on a few Maseratis, I'm on the side of the pigeons.• Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree