My father, who is now 94, was an actor. The prime thing he taught us as children was to walk through the world with our eyes open. I don’t remember him telling me, I just remember knowing. So as soon as I wake, I look and I think. Sometimes at night I think, too – and that is usually a bad thing. Dragged thoughts from half-shut eyes are diabolic or diminished creatures – growling with anxiety or, in the morning, punier than you imagined them to be. A dear friend Nicholas Egon gave me my waking view; a painting of the tree outside his London home. Nicholas is a fine artist, traveller and raconteur – so with the cherry blossom come his stories of rattling around the Middle East as a war artist, or living in a tent on Magdalen college cricket pitch after the second world war because he couldn’t afford the college bills. The painting reminds me to be in two times at once.My best writing day starts with coffee from our local Cypriot cafe and a newspaper from the Tamil corner shop – they always ask what I’m up to, and why I haven’t brushed my hair – then a short, sharp walk. I think as I go. Humans have long been migrants. Physiologically we are nomads and the brain responds to walking – I solve all kinds of problems, personal and historical on the move. So that’s a good day. A more typical day starts with a 5.30am dash to finish off a script or emails before breakfast for children, random house guests, tortoises, rabbits, a cat. Then frustrating attempts to stop the cat editing the touchscreen with her tail.I cannot write about the past unless I go where history happened. Some make very good armchair historians, I’m not one of them. If you’re going to inhabit someone else’s world, the very least you can do is to spend a little time in it. So my words almost always start al fresco as impressions and ideas that are then set down in notebooks. I have scores and scores of these notebooks in my study. The journals have become little archaeological fragments in their own right – crunching with the mud of Göbekli Tepe in Turkey or coffee splashes from Egypt or grass seed from the Steppes. For 30 years I’ve travelled to historically plangent places to write: documentaries followed later as another way to communicate that privileged, exhilarating experience.This peripatetic existence means that next to my children and my health, those notebooks are the most precious thing I own. I’ve only ever lost one. A wonderful woman tracked me down by Sherlocking together the clues on the pages and the book was returned unharmed. She got the most expensive bottle of wine I’ve ever bought. I have an illogical fear of being separated from those notebooks. They are somehow proof that I’m alive.My second writing shift starts after dark. When the children were young it was the way I could get in a 12-hour day: 6am to 2pm (cycle home, spend a few hours dressed as a wasp or Viking – the things that being a parent requires), then back at my desk 9pm to 1am. I’d like to think they didn’t notice I was absent in my head, working, but they called my Helen of Troy “that treacherous book”. The perfidy of writing is ingrained. Studying the Spartans for years has given me a fascination with the elevation of denial and so I have a natural inclination to make things harder than strictly necessary. I tend not to read general works on the period I’m studying until about two thirds of the way through writing any new history. I want to come to the evidence/archive/archaeology fresh. But then I’ll discover that the genius original thought I’d imagined I’d had has been had before. So I have to start from scratch to give the reader something new.My guilty pleasure at the end of the day is an old thesaurus. I know that can lead to overwriting, but if words such as lambent, pyretic and boscy exist, how sad they should stay recondite. These word-ideas move a narrative sideways as well as forwards – a trick perfected by Homer, whose wisdom-bright metaphors transport us from blasted battlefields to the tenderness of a nursing mother. I sleep with a replica early Greek tablet and a digital tablet on the shelf by my bed. If one, 2,800 years ago, created the common reader, wouldn’t it be splendid if the other could nurture the common thinker?• Istanbul: A Tale of Three Cities by Bettany Hughes is published by Weidenfeld & Nicolson. To order a copy for £19.99 (RRP £25) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.