Lupita Nyong’o is, rumour suggests, a nightmare. Difficult. Cold. Prone to making heavy demands. She also quite famously won an Oscar for her first film straight out of Yale School of Drama, just three years ago. So, you might expect a degree of monstrous entitlement, but the buzz spreading through the London film festival seems exaggerated, even by industry standards. Chatshow clips – Jimmy Kimmel and The Ellen Show, old episodes of Conan O’Brien and Letterman – offer no evidence of brattiness.12 Years a Slave – review | Peter Bradshaw “I don’t feel a need to be anyone but myself,” she says of her reputation. The actor, who was born in Mexico and brought up in Kenya, is perched like a doll on the edge of a sofa when we meet: buttoned up in a full-sleeved and collared A-line Pucci dress that fans out across the seat, her legs crossed, hands folded on knees.I ask if there is a gulf between the public and private Lupita. She suppresses a small laugh. “I codeshift between my mother and father, let alone the industry and my home life. So, yeah, I think we naturally codeshift and that’s something I can’t deny I do, but the version of me … ” She finishes by waving at herself and tilting her head as if to say, “Yes, this is me” and “No, it’s not a grand act.”Her new film, Disney’s Queen of Katwe, is billed as her first “proper” role since 12 Years a Slave, though Nyong’o has been in a Star Wars film and The Jungle Book along the way. Queen of Katwe is a true story, directed by Mira Nair (Salaam Bombay, Monsoon Wedding, The Namesake) and based on the life of unlikely teenage chess champion Phiona Mutesi, from the Ugandan slums of Kampala.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nyong’o in Queen of Katwe. Photograph: Everett/Rex/Shutterstock“Mira Nair and I have known each other for a very long time,” says Nyong’o. “I once worked as an intern for her, and our families are friends, but she emailed me to say she had the role written for me and would I please say yes to doing it? Less than 10 pages into reading the script, I sent an email: ‘I must make this film.’”Nyong’o plays Harriet, a widowed mother of five, whose naggy, protective survival instinct has no truck with the do-gooding help – coach Robert Katende (David Oyelowo) – promising to change the lives of Phiona and her family. Harriet’s life is hard but it’s hers, thanks very much. Still, ‘Katwe is a feelgood triumph for the sporting underdog. “It’s an uplifting African story and we could do with more of those.”In the crassest terms, think Cool Runnings meets Slumdog Millionaire, but with a lot of dramatic set pieces over chess boards. Stephen Colbert declared it his “favourite movie of the year so far” and said it made him weep, the New York Times reviewed it as irresistible, and Rolling Stone claimed it “hits you like a shot to the heart”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Lupita Nyong’o in the trailer for Disney’s Queen of KatweA harassed matriarch is not an obvious choice for Nyong’o, whose decisions have been deliberate and few, post-Oscars. She narrows her eyes.“The biggest gift or award the Academy has given me is choice. I am in a position where I don’t have to take on roles out of desperation or to help pay my bills.” Nyong’o’s voice hovers between mannered plumminess and international school student. “I can choose the projects I can say something with. It’s not something I take for granted.”It is not, I realise, that Nyong’o is haughty, more that she is atypical of her peers; she isn’t on a charm offensive, just businesslike: articulate and smart, clipped and polite. Does she worry about blowback for not conforming to expectation? Her first role post-Steve McQueen’s 12 Years a Slave, after all, was a play written by a university friend about the Liberian war.“I don’t have that rulebook. So I have no idea. That’s honestly my answer. Art is political in whatever way you slice it,” she says, matter-of-factly. “It’s not something I shy away from. I grew up in a political family so it’s an environment I recognise.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest She frequently calls out Hollywood’s tendency to mark her as its proof of doing the race stuff right, but making her the exception and not a norm. This month, for the third time in as many years, she appeared on the front of the US edition of Vogue, which ran the coverline: “I want to create opportunities for people of color.” It’s not the sexiest way to sell a fashion glossy, but Nyong’o is unapologetic.“Films inspire people to feel differently. A lot more can be done. We can be more empathetic when we realise how much more alike we are than how different we are.”Does she feel a burden, as a black actor, to keep talking about the “issues”?“But you see, I don’t like to fight the reality. The reason it is so acute is because of the stage we are at. When we are talking about inclusion in entertainment, it’s because entertainment isn’t inclusive and, until such a time as that becomes the norm, then this work has to be done.”It is almost a betrayal to her generation that Nyong’o never utters a single “like”, “uhm”, abbreviation or hesitation. “I feel an impetus to say something because this is a conversation that very directly affects me, and my career, and my role in the world. But I don’t belabour it.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nyong’o in 12 Years a Slave. Photograph: FoxSearch/Everett/RexWe, she says grandly, vaguely indicating us both, “need people like Tendo Nagenda [the Disney executive behind Queen of Katwe] in positions of power who see the world in a more prismatic way to make the changes we desire.”The platform on which to speak out is one she won alongside her Academy gong as best supporting actress in 2014. It “stands out as the moment that changed my life,” she says. For better or worse? “Ah. Just change in all ways, it’s the before-and-after moment.” In the six-month run-up to the event, Nyong’o is said to have walked 66 red carpets; the elegant embodiment of style and grace, uniformly written up as fierce and flawless.“It was actually quite scary and discombobulating,” she says slowly, loosening up her shoulders. Her relationship with celebrity felt confusing. “To have lots of men running towards me with cameras, to look back to see what they were running after, and –” she stops to laugh – “it was me? It was very jarring. The one thing that made it all manageable was my intimate relationships because they have been constant. My mother still calls me to ask whether I’ve had my breakfast and that doesn’t change because I won an Oscar.”Nyong’o is now 33. She and her younger brother (who photobombed that Oscar selfie, still the most shared image in history, and whom she called “my best friend” in her acceptance speech) seemed to take it all in their stride: meeting Beyoncé “in the Boom Boom Room”, namechecked by Jay Z on We Made It, dinner with the Obamas, that sort of thing.How differently might she have coped if she had been in her early 20s? She lets out a big sigh and rolls back on the sofa. “Oh, God, I don’t even want to know. I still have friends who tease me about the same things they used to tease me about before. I am eternally grateful for that, this happened at a time when I knew who my day ones were.”Nyong’o comes from a lifetime of privilege, and there has always been public interest in her family back in Kenya. She was born in Mexico because her parents were political exiles; her father is now a senator and secretary general of the Kenyan opposition party Orange Democratic Movement, and her mother worked as an editor and is now managing director of the Africa Cancer Foundation.“My confidence comes from my upbringing,” Nyong’o says. “My parents took time to instil a lot of values – patience, striving for excellence, not to compromise. Playing Harriet definitely taught me to appreciate the role a mother plays – that is a no-joke role. I spent a lot of time apologising to my mother for the unnecessary heartache I put her through.”Such as?She cringes and her voice becomes softer with embarrassment. “I mean, kids are so entitled. So selfish! When you realise motherhood is a part of yourself running amok in the world, and you cannot help but worry your heart … ” She takes a sip of water and swerves from confessing any stories about rebelling. Instead, she talks about her mother’s determination to make her feel beautiful when, during her adolescence, her self-loathing had made her begin “to enjoy the seduction of inadequacy”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Maz Kanata character in Star Wars, played by Nyong’o. Photograph: PR company handoutIt is difficult to imagine now; Nyong’o, who looks as if she could have been sculpted by Rodin and has a lucrative contract as the face of Lancôme, knows her worth. But it echoes her speech about beauty, almost three years ago, at a Black Women in Hollywood luncheon, when she talked about a letter she had received from a girl who was desperate to use skin-lightening cream until Nyong’o “appeared on the world map”.Nyong’o revealed that she prayed daily to God to lighten her skin and would dismiss her mother’s advice that “beauty does not feed you; you can’t eat it”, until the model Alek Wek inadvertently taught her: “Beauty was not a thing I could acquire or consume; it was something that I just had to be.”It is why being ubiquitous – on screen or on magazine covers – matters to her, to help other girls feel validated. “I live in America and I am directly affected by the political situation,” she explains. Has she ever been invited to work with any activist movement?“I don’t imagine I’m not involved in [Black Lives Matter] – I have a younger brother living in America, too, so obviously I’m affected. Obviously, I take these things personally. And I know what’s coming,” she sing-songs and rolls her eyes. “Don’t ask me about Trump.”• Queen of Katwe is released in the UK on 21 October.