MondayThe Offbeat festival starts at the Old Fire Station, Oxford: it lives up to its name with work from lots of emerging talent and sneak previews of Edinburgh-bound shows including Katie Bonna’s All the Things I Lied About and Sh!t Theatre’s housing crisis two-hander, Letters to Windsor House. Emma Rice’s The Flying Lovers of Vitebsk is worth your time and money at the Sam Wanamaker at the Globe, London. Slung Low are curating the Fairy Portal Camp all week in Avonbank Gardens, Stratford-upon-Avon. Working with Rash Dash and the School of the Night there will be free activities, performances and silent disco fairy raves culminating on Saturday night, when they will attempt to open the portal between this world and the fairy world. Robert Icke and Duncan Macmillan’s terrific take on Orwell’s Nineteen Eighty-Four is back in the West End at the Playhouse. This week is your last chance to see Bird at the Royal Exchange Studio, Manchester.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Slung Low’s Fairy Portal Camp in Stratford-upon-Avon. Photograph: RSCTuesdayCan I Start Again Please, Sue MacLaine’s story of trauma and how words fail, is at the North Wall, Oxford tonight and Arc in Stockton tomorrow. Daniel Kitson’s brilliant Polyphony is at the Tobacco Factory, Bristol. Teenage dads and unplanned parenthood are the subject of Pulling Out, which is at the Bike Shed, Exeter – it’s the latest show from Documental Theatre, whose Score was very nice. The BE festival begins at Birmingham Rep tonight, featuring groundbreaking new theatre from across Europe.Wednesday      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Miss Revolutionary Idol Berserker at the Barbican, London. Photograph: Cyclone_AEastern Angles’ family summer show is Arthur Ransome’s We Didn’t Mean to Go to Sea at Hush House in Woodbridge, Suffolk. Travelling Light’s Into the West stops off at the Theatre Royal, Bury St Edmunds. Stephen Unwin directs Samuel West as the irresponsible, self-obsessed charmer Garry Essendine in Noël Coward’s Present Laughter at the Theatre Royal, Bath. Japanese subculture is live on stage in Miss Revolutionary Idol Berserker, part of London international festival of theatre (Lift) from tonight in the Pit at the Barbican. Also starting tonight at the Barbican, in the main house, is Malthouse Theatre’s The Shadow King, which transposes King Lear to the Australian outback. The possibilities of theatre are explored in the Rada festival, which begins today in London and which, in the past, has thrown up interesting shows of all kinds. Kate O’Donnell looks back on being transgender in the 1970s in Big Girl’s Blouse at Soho theatre, London. Florian Zeller’s The Truth transfers to Wyndham’s theatre for an 11-week run. Melanie Wilson reimagines the operatic form in Opera for the Unknown Woman at the Lawrence Batley, Huddersfield, as part of the Yorkshire festival, which also has lots of street theatre over the next few days.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Opera for the Unknown Woman. Photograph: Karen RobinsonThursdayBrian Friel’s extraordinary Faith Healer is revived at the Donmar, London, with Ron Cook, Gina McKee and Stephen Dillane. Rosemary Lee and Simon Whitehead collaborate on Calling Tree in Bruce Castle Park, Tottenham, north London, as part of Lift. The Hijinx Unity festival begins in Cardiff, featuring inclusive and disability performance from around the world. It’s the last date on the tour for Daniel Bye’s Going Viral, which is at the Square Chapel, Halifax. Rebecca Lenkiewicz’s new version of the Tempest premieres at the Royal and Derngate, Northampton.Friday and the weekendCuttin’ It, Charlene James’s terrific look at the illegal practice of FGM in the UK, arrives at the Royal Court, London, after its Young Vic run. It will make you angry and make you weep. Contractions, Mike Bartlett’s darkly comic story of office life and management intrusions, gets its regional premiere at Sheffield Crucible. The Greenwich and Docklands festival begins today and continues over the weekend and into next week. There are lots of great events, including Greenwich Fair, and everything is free. Starting tonight at Bush Hall on Uxbridge Road, west London, is a co-production between the Bush and Headlong of Melissa Bubnic’s Boys Will Be Boys about women working in the male-dominated worlds of high finance.