The relationship that changed me was the relationship that made me – a common enough paradox.Between the ages of 11 and 14, I had an English teacher whom, for everybody’s sake, I will call Mr B. During those crucial years, he dominated my intellectual development, and today he is the little man in my head. Mr B taught he how to read and how to write. He was the man who taught me how to do the things that have become myself. He distorted me into the person I am.  I suppose a school in suburban Edmonton, Alberta, in western Canada in the 1980s, is as good a place as any to encounter a presiding spirit. The location could not have been less remarkable. The school itself, set down on an enormous field overlooking a freeway, looked like an abandoned strip mall with only one door. It was a private school in the sense that my parents paid for me to attend but it should by no means be confused with British private schools. We wore uniforms, but mainly because it was cheaper for our parents. It possessed the opposite of glamour. The school was a stark somewhat Calvinist throwback, with an educational philosophy that can be summed up as “it was better the way it was.” We did logarithms rather than “the new math”. We read from The Canadian Readers, collections of imperialist tidbits published in the 1920s, rather than the new nationalist, multicultural anthologies that emerged in the wake of the signing of the Canadian constitution in 1982.  Even by the standards of this environment, Mr B was eccentrically antiquated. We would stand at our desks when any teacher entered the room, but Mr B insisted we stand at attention when he entered, and then at ease, before we sat. He wore tight white shirts, often sleeveless, and narrow ties, like a 1960s junior executive at the Rand Corporation. He frequently barked. He insisted we all sit still or stand still when we were not engaged in productive effort. My education in middle school was not significantly different from the education pioneer schoolchildren received 100 years earlier in one-room log cabin schools, both in its moral underpinning and in its content. We learned the components of sentences: subjects, verbs, objects, which always went in that order. Sentences could contain subjective clauses, objective clauses and adjectival clauses. By using or refraining from using these elements, we wrote simple sentences or compound sentences or compound-complex sentences. Simple sentences were always best. In grade seven, we worked only on individual sentences, in grade eight on single paragraphs, and then finally in grade nine on arguments.  It was all mechanical. Each argument worked exactly the same way, beginning with the inverted triangle approach to the introductory paragraph, moving from the general to the particular and concluding with a thesis statement. (If you want an example, look at the opening paragraph of this essay.) The introductory paragraph was to be followed by supporting examples and concluding with a restatement of the thesis and a concluding paragraph moving from the particular back out to the general. There was only ever one correct way to write – the clearest and most economical way. There was no room for expression; there was only writing correctly or incorrectly. Mr B taught me the Aristotelian rhetorical method: logos (be right), ethos (be decent), pathos (be charming) and in that order.There were other tricks, too. He taught me that it’s easier to make an argument when you don’t know anything about the subject. He taught me that it’s easier to make an argument that you disagree with. It’s easier to write when the business of writing is a question of technique alone. I have always remembered these lessons.  These practical matters would have been enough, but of course like every powerful teacher – whether good or evil – he imbued me with his example. Mr B was the first case in my life of a grown-up man who believed in literature. The tepid little anecdotes and doggerel in The Canadian Readers found no love in his heart. Mr B wanted real poetry. It was much more than love. It was belief. My introduction to writing was old-fashioned, traditional but my introduction to reading literature was just plain weird. Only later, on my way to a PhD in early modern drama, did I realize how deeply eccentric Mr B’s taste was. He believed that romanticism, specifically Wordsworth’s theory of literary expression as “the spontaneous overflow of powerful emotion”, had been the death of literature. With the abandonment of technical facility as an ideal, literature has wandered from the high mountains of the mastery of thought and word into the swamps of self-expression. He taught us mainly the poets of the Renaissance: Ben Jonson, Sir Philip Sidney, Wyatt, Spenser, Donne. Shakespeare was a treat. And one very fine day, in the ninth grade, when the class had been particularly well-behaved and efficient, he allowed us Alexander Pope. There could be no higher mark of his approval, that he believed we were ready to read The Essay on Man.  I was by no means Mr B’s favorite student. I was messy in personal appearance, and my handwriting was poor, and these matters of discipline mattered to him. Nonetheless he did once lend me a book. I don’t remember why, although I certainly remember the book. It was a collection of the writings of Lord Denning, a British jurist remembered, if at all, for adjudicating the Profumo case. He had a literary style, borrowed from the aggressive simplicity of legal briefs, that was basic to the point of being off-putting. The clarity can be unnerving.  This newcomer has built, or has had built for him, a house on the edge of the cricket ground which four years ago was a field where cattle grazed. The animals did not mind the cricket. But now this adjoining field has been turned into a housing estate. The newcomer bought one of the houses on the edge of the cricket ground. No doubt the open space was a selling point. Now he complains that when a batsman hits a six the ball has been known to land in his garden or on or near his house. His wife has got so upset about it that they always go out at weekends. They do not go into the garden when cricket is being played. They say that this is intolerable.Denning’s was a style so basic that it amounted to the avant-garde. Imagine giving such a book to a 12-year-old boy, as a way of introducing him to the joys of writing. Then imagine that gift working. There was a radical edge to Mr B. He must have been influenced by Glenn Gould, I think – they were both passionate in their overweening love of restraint. Whenever I see those moving literary teachers – from Miss Jean Brodie up to Robin Williams in Dead Poets Society – they always open their students’ minds up to the glamorous potential within themselves. Mr B had no time for such nonsense. He believed that writing was like plumbing, but that was no insult. He believed that writing could aspire to be as useful and necessary as plumbing. He wanted art to reach that quiet dignity.If our relationship ended, and I’m not entirely sure it has ended, it ended simply because I went to high school. There was, needless to say, no outward expression of emotion, no fond farewell. His vision of language was one that aspired to pure functionality, a language of communication. He communicated more information to me than any other person. But his main point, as a teacher, was not to say what didn’t have to be said. What would goodbye mean? What purpose would it serve? I had a hit a few months ago – an op-ed in the New York Times on the Closing of the Canadian Mind that received 400,000 plus Facebook shares and millions of readers. Someone sent me a picture of a clipping of the thing taped to the window of a storefront, which is pretty much the ultimate compliment for an opinion piece. It was written exactly the way Mr B taught me to write an essay in grade seven. His stuff works. I make my living by virtue of his instruction –the connection is absolutely direct. Mr B made me and broke me because, through him, I came to believe that obsessive passion over the quality of linguistic expression was the most important thing in life. Despite ample enough experience, I am unable to shake this conviction.  And now I must go back over this essay, looking for the places where Mr B would disapprove. For other essays in this series, go on the You Changed Me page.