Under his stage name of Pierre the Clown, my uncle, Peter Picton, who has died aged 82, often appeared on children’s TV in the 1960s and 70s. As the owner of the car that starred in the film Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, he performed in the 80s and 90s at hundreds of Christmas events, weddings and shows.Peter’s father was Harry “Mac” Picton, an actor, producer and theatrical manager, and he was brought up in London. His stage career began in the early 50s when he became an apprentice to Coco the Clown at Bertram Mills circus. In 1956-57, weeks after Soviet tanks had put down the uprising in Hungary, Peter was one of the first western acts to be allowed into Budapest. He would later recall the extraordinary, wounded silence that met their performances.He had a favourite prop, a black Ford Model T. Pierre would try to open one door but the opposite door would open instead. He would try again and the right doors would open this time but fall to the ground. Miming, between each setback, incredulity, defeat and renewed hope, Pierre would attempt to drive the car from its back seat. The car would start, before spilling him to the floor.When the Beatles opened their Apple boutique in London in 1967, Peter was the clown giving out apples to guests, and handed John Lennon his apple. He also worked for the Rolling Stones on their circus tour. In 1968, Peter worked as a driver on Chitty Chitty Bang Bang. At the end of the film the props were auctioned off and Peter was able to buy the car. It became the mainstay of his working life for the next 40 years.Peter was one of those rare adults who are aware of the powerlessness that the young can feel. A stream of youngsters came to the house where Peter lived with his wife, Susie, in Stratford-upon-Avon, and were given make-your-own models of Chitty or other toys.I visited him two days before he died of pneumonia, when his face was covered in an oxygen mask, and he could communicate only in sign language. But he wanted to know how his youngest relatives were. His face creased in a broad smile when he heard that they were acting and dancing.Peter is survived by Susie (nee Geiger), whom he married in 1988, and by his son, Jon, from an earlier marriage.