The 1981 Emmy awards opened with a horrifyingly cheesy musical number called One Big Happy Family sung by the casts of 16 shows, including CHiPs, Happy Days and The Love Boat. That family excluded a rookie cop series but its big, rowdy cast would hijack the evening, hooting and hollering as the low-rated drama captured a record eight awards on the strength of its unsurpassed 21 nominations. While most Emmy awards telecasts are as instantly forgettable as that opening number, the showing by Hill Street Blues that night helped reshape television history. Right from the swirling, chaotic opening scene of its pilot, Hill Street Blues was a show apart. “Michael Kozoll and I just didn’t want to do a typical cop show,” recalls co-creator Steven Bochco.  Producer and director Gregory Hoblit credits Bochco with assembling gifted iconoclasts such as director Robert Butler, whose dizzying use of handheld cameras was as startling to audiences in 1981 as Bochco’s and Kozoll’s overlapping dialogue, flawed protagonists, serialized story arcs and gritty realism mixed with dark humor. “I was astounded by the quality at our first screening,” recalls Joe Spano, who played junior officer Henry Goldblume. “Steven led audiences to these places that recognized the complexities of life.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Lucy Bates, played by Betty Thomas, proved a groundbreaking role for a female police officer and the show also created then-rare three-dimensional roles for black actors. “Taurean Blacque and I were given things to do – we were positive characters, not just window dressing,” says Michael Warren (Bobby Hill). Both Hill and Blacque’s Neil Washington were depicted as more honest, industrious and wholesome than their white partners. “The writing was absolutely wonderful,” says James B Sikking (bullish Swat team leader Howard Hunter). “We couldn’t wait for the next script.” The cast had an undeniable chemistry, adds Charles Haid (the hotheaded cop Andy Renko), which he credits to Bochco. “He was very much the leader and had certain spirit,” Haid says. “And there was an eccentricity within our coterie – we were a pile of mutts, with our own opinions and eccentricities that created a synergy. I was proud to be one of the mutts.” The critics raved but viewers were notably absent. “We were too good to succeed,” says Bruce Weitz (undercover cop Mick Belker). “The show required people’s attention and the last thing TV audiences wanted to do back then was pay attention.” “Every show didn’t end with a nice bow on it because that’s how life is,” says Blacque. To help viewers keep track of the juggling storylines, Bochco and Hoblit chose Blacque to say “Previously on Hill Street Blues” over clips of the previous week’s show (“they liked my melodic voice,” Blacque says), something countless series have copied since.  The ratings were “just abysmal”, Bochco recalls. Network executives frantically switched the show’s time-slot, which made matters worse. “The 11 people who were loyally watching us could barely find us.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Thomas says the crew started wearing black armbands, certain the show’s demise was imminent. And Warren says, “my most vivid memory is Charlie Haid sitting in roll call drawing a cartoon of a rocket ship that said HSB on the side – it launched and then came all the way back down.” (Haid adds, with a laugh, “the rocket was crashing down on Mike’s house and his poor little children.”) Sikking recalls everybody scrambling to call their agents to line up their next gig – he was calm because he was heading for London to do theater. The actors say their cause was aided by the fact that what audience did tune in was educated and upscale – and attracted high-end advertisers. “It was the first time I heard the word demographics,” Sikking says.  But Hoblit says what really saved the show was that the rest of NBC’s lineup couldn’t get arrested either: “We were dumb lucky that NBC was doing so poorly and had nothing to replace us with.”  NBC executives Fred Silverman and Brandon Tartikoff loved Hill Street Blues and before Silverman lost his job he renewed the show, albeit for a half-season order. It was the lowest-rated scripted series ever to be brought back. In Bochco’s new memoir, Truth is a Total Defense, he says Silverman even wrote him a note declaring, “Hill Street Blues is going to sweep the Emmys and go on to become a big hit.” Still, everyone was shocked when 21 Emmy nominations poured in, including eight for acting, three for directing and two for writing. “We couldn’t believe it, it was almost silly,” Sikking says. Thomas says her first reaction to being nominated for best supporting actress was “What’s wrong with people?” but adds that “on a personal level it meant a lot because my dad was dying of cancer so he was very happy at the thought I might have a career.” Suddenly, Bochco says, “our phones were ringing off the hook” with interview requests. Still, he doubted the show would win anything. “Nobody was watching us because our show was so startlingly different and the voting pool, like with the Oscars, was mostly older people.” He was wrong. That night, America heard that Mike Post theme eight times, including during the award for outstanding actor (Daniel J Travanti), outstanding actress (Barbara Babcock), outstanding supporting actor (Michael Conrad), outstanding writing, outstanding directing and outstanding drama. “Every time they said, ‘And the winner is’, it was Hill Street Blues,” Blacque says.  Every time, TV viewers could hear and see a boisterous band of “mutts” on their feet cheering. “We just went through the roof,” Blacque says.  “We went nuts and were very rude,” Thomas says. “We felt like it was our party.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Spano says they were the antithesis of the Vince Lombardi quote about getting to the end zone and acting like you’ve been there before. “It was my first rodeo,” he says. “I was extremely gauche but we were not being show-offy, we were just so surprised and pleased. We were childish in the best way.”Haid says the crowd started to turn on them a bit and Bochco says, “the producer of the Emmys barked at me about their unruliness.” (In his memoir, Bochco also recounts accidentally stabbing himself in the thigh with his trophy, drawing blood.) Weitz adds, “Someone said to me, ‘Do you have to be that vocal every time’ and I said, ‘Yes, why would we hold it in?’”  The next day it was back to work but Weitz felt the eight trophies (one of which was snuck into the background of a scene), “ensured our future”. “We went in that Monday with such a sense of pride,” Warren says. “We were the little engine that could. We felt the awards were an indication we were right about what we were trying to do. Now maybe America would tune in.”  Bochco wasn’t as confident that the Emmys would have such an impact until the season premiere the next month.  “Our numbers did change dramatically,” Thomas says.  Hill Street began winning its time slot and even briefly cracked the top 10 in ratings. Although it never ultimately finished a season even in the top 20, it gained enough stature and enough of an audience, Bochco says, that “we were being universally lauded as a game changer and that’s pretty heady stuff”. Ed Marinaro (officer Joe Coffey) says they were “having a great time on the show but it was hard to process what was happening – you couldn’t appreciate then what our legacy would be. But we did change the way people watched television.” Suddenly, television was populated by dramas such as St Elsewhere and Cagney and Lacey, which may not have happened had Hill Street been canceled. “We changed the landscape irrevocably,” Hoblit recalls. “I look at it as a miracle now.” Hill Street won four consecutive outstanding drama awards, along with numerous other acting, writing and directing trophies. (“We made history the next year with all five outstanding supporting actor nominations,” Blacque adds.) Guest appearances gave a boost to actors including Tim Robbins, Forest Whitaker, Danny Glover and Dan Hedaya. And, of course, the cast and creative team benefited enormously. The show’s writers went on to create Miami Vice, Law & Order and Twin Peaks – shows with seemingly little in common. “The show had so many different kinds of influence but the freedom to experiment was the same for all of us,” David Milch, who joined the series in the third season and later co-created NYPD Blue and created Deadwood. “The experience of Hill Street taught us what it meant to grab your balls and jump.” The veracity and complexity Hill Street brought to TV dramas can be seen in shows ranging from The Wire to The Americans. But the original can still hold its own. Blacque says he still watches Hill Street Blues in reruns. “We were really good,” he says, and adds with a laugh, “and we were really young.”