My kitchen is … simple and open-plan. I love eating and cooking at the same time. When we moved, I wanted a nice, big kitchen, and I’m so thankful that we have one. I didn’t know then that I’d be cooking for a living six years on … It’s neutral in colour, the walls are cream, the work surfaces simple black granite. The kettle and toaster are always out, as is my stand mixer, but otherwise I like my surfaces clear. I can’t concentrate if there’s too much clutter. I do have a few plants dotted around – herbs and cacti.My favourite kitchen tool is … my electric whisk. It’s not fancy – I think I got it for £4 from Tesco – but I can’t do without it when I’m baking. When cooking, I like my rolling pin and my chapati board, which I use for any pastry. Your hands get so used to certain tools – I know exactly how the pin and the board work, so I can work quickly with them.My storecupboard staples are … my basic spices: turmeric, cumin seeds, mustard seeds and garam masala. I can’t remember ever running out. And for baking, I always have at least a dozen eggs, four packs of butter, flour, sugar – I never run out of these either. I might not have ground almonds, but I always have what I need to make a cake.When I’m starving I … love an egg sandwich. It takes two minutes to make – so easy, so quick. I make an omelette, with salt, chilli powder, and chopped onion if I have an extra minute. I toast the bread, add salad leaves if I have them, and that’s it!My culinary inspiration is … Indian cuisine, the food I grew up with. It is my strength and my home.‘When I was working on my book I had 100 portions of cake in my house’ My best-kept kitchen secret is … when cooking, to go with your instinct. If you think two things will taste good together, don’t think twice, just go for it. You can always add and improve. And when baking, be patient. You cannot make a cake in a rush. Also, you need to cook with love. If I cook when I’m not in the mood, it never works. It sounds cheesy, but it is so true!When I’m invited to dinner I always … ask if I can bring the dessert. I usually end up taking something baked. Even if we don’t end up eating it there and then, it’ll be for the kids or for later on.Everything tastes better with … the right amount of seasoning. What’s the point if there’s not enough salt? It’s what brings the flavours together.When I go shopping I … am quite organised. I always have a list going, pinned to the kitchen shelf or on the fridge. I never just go to pick up things, I always need to know what I’m going to get. And I don’t get swayed by offers. I have my list and I stick with it. Even if they’re giving something for free!For dinner tonight … I am making egg curry in a spicy, creamy, onion and tomato sauce, served with rice.Chetna Makan is a fashion designer and baker, and was a semi-finalist in The Great British Bake Off 2014. Her cookbook, The Cardamom Trail