As the emissions cheating scandal runs into its second week, we could be witnessing the death throes of diesel in Europe.The VW revelations will draw much-needed attention to the dreadful health impacts resulting from diesel traffic. Government figures published this month estimate that more than 50,000 people die early every year from air pollution. That doesn’t include the tens of thousands more who are made seriously ill through asthma, bronchitis, heart attacks, strokes and other debilitating illnesses.ClientEarth responded to this health crisis by taking the government to court. In April the supreme court ordered the government to come up with ambitious plans to meet pollution limits as soon as possible. But the new plans that the government slipped out for public consultation this month still fall woefully short of what’s needed. It has had its head in the sand for years on this issue – will this very public scandal force it to pay attention?Emissions standards in Europe are already too weak to effectively protect our health. Even so, VW – and probably others – have cheated the system to get their new diesels to market.Big questions remain about the extent to which the government already knew such emissions cheating was happening.The crisis has implications for all major car manufacturers, whether diesel or petrol. The car industry and the government need to prove to the public that cars can deliver clean emissions without cheating.Revealed: British ministers tried to block EU moves to clean up air quality The inquiry launched by the Department for Transport, under the auspices of the Vehicle Certification Agency (VCA), cannot supply that proof. As an industry-funded government agency, the VCA lacks the necessary independence to conduct a credible investigation.We need an independent body to investigate this problem, at speed and with full transparency. The issue is clear: diesels on the road produce, on average, seven times the levels of emissions registered in manufacturers’ lab tests. The government has a mountain to climb to take control of the air pollution problem. It cannot be solved while dirty diesel and defeat devices remain on our streets. We need a national network of clean air zones to keep diesel vehicles out of our most polluted town centres unless they meet the toughest new pollution standards on the road, not just in the lab.Alan Andrews is a lawyer for ClientEarth.