Fears of an environmental disaster on the North Wales coast have subsided, with the Environment Agency (EA) reporting only minimal leakage of fuel from the stricken cargo ship Carrier.Salvage has begun of the Carrier, which is wedged against concrete defences next to the Raynes Jetty in Llanddulas. Three holes were torn in the port side but the starboard side, where the ship's main fuel tanks are located, remains intact.It is understood that only 7,000 litres (1,500 gallons) have leaked from the ship's total cargo of 24,000 litres. The vessel was initially thought to be carrying 40,000 litres.The EA, together with the Maritime and Coastguard Agency (MCA), and the Countryside Council for Wales are working on a plan to remove the rest of the fuel from the ship without damaging the environment. The MCA said it was a "number one priority".A statement from the EA said: "As much of the escaping gas oil is likely to evaporate and be dispersed by the sea, its environmental impact is expected to be minimal at this stage."Officers have also been have been patrolling the beaches on either side of the incident checking for signs of pollution. So far, no traces of pollution on the beaches have been found."The weather was much calmer on Thursday, and a team of salvage experts began preparatory work on the recovery of fuel from the vessel.This will involve specialist vehicles and equipment being brought to the scene via the coastal cycle path and in order to maintain public safety and allow specialists unhindered access North Wales Police are asking all members of the public to stay well away from the scene.Salvage operation spokesman Gareth Pritchard said "Specialists are in place and hope to start work very soon and we are asking the public to keep a safe distance from the scene. There will also be a number of specialist vehicles, equipment and as safety remains our priority we are asking for the public's continued patience and cooperation so we can bring this matter to a speedy and safe conclusion"The site is part of a designated marine protection area that supports seabird species such as the red-throated diver and common scoter.Gill Bell, of the Wales branch of the MCA, said that although there were no immediate bird fatalities, it was likely there could be more long-term impact on local wildlife."We may not be able to see it, but the weather has dispersed water over a large area, so the spillage could affect wildlife in a more sub-lethal way. It could affect their food chain or their eggs, but we are not likely to know the full impact for years."We are very happy with the authorities' response. But we do need to be checking for any wildlife casualties washing up on the shore."If more fuel were to leak from the vessel, it is believed it would be confined to a small area between Colwyn Bay and Rhys.One lane of the eastbound A55 is closed, and will remain so for the foreseeable future. Both westbound lanes are open.Ben Clifton of the Marine Accident Investigation Bureau confirmed that a team of three inspectors from Southampton had arrived in Llanddulas to begin their investigation."They are not a criminal investigation body," he stressed. "Their job is not to apportion blame, but instead to find out exactly why the accident happened. They will be talking to witnesses and crew as part of that."He said it would be months before any findings were published, but that they would look at the history of the area, including the sinking of the Swanland last November, which led to the loss of six Russian crew members."They are currently investigating that as well, including sending a submarine down to have a look at the wreckage," Clifton said. "That report will be published in due course."Seven crew members, all Polish nationals, were rescued from the Carrier on Wednesday night. The ship is believed to have hit a rock and grounded on the beach after using a nearby jetty to load a cargo of limestone.