It’s a comeback that’s already seen him star in two best picture Oscar winners in a row, and next year could make it three with the release of yet another awards-friendly film for Michael Keaton.The first trailer for The Founder introduces Keaton as Ray Kroc, the man who turned McDonald’s into a multibillion-dollar business. It was a controversial rise to power: Kroc initially joined the company as a franchise agent when it was just a small chain but ultimately bought the company himself, giving the McDonald brothers $1m each. By the time of Kroc’s death in 1984, he was worth $500m.The drama is directed by John Lee Hancock, who led Sandra Bullock to Oscar success in The Blind Side and has also been behind The Alamo and Saving Mr Banks. The script comes from Robert D Siegel, whose credits include Darren Aronofsky’s drama The Wrestler and animated snails adventure Turbo. It also stars Laura Dern and Nick Offerman.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Ray Kroc: the wily businessman who made McDonald’s The film’s release date was changed from an awards-friendly release date in late November to August in a move by producer Harvey Weinstein to shift the glut of Oscar-bait films that always land at the same time every year.“I am determined to show that adult fare and award-calibre movies should be able to open any time of year and be successful,” he said earlier this year. “Last season we saw a crowded fall where some terrific films struggled to find an audience. This year I want to spread out our slate and give them the best opportunity to succeed. The Founder is brilliant and one of the most controversial films I have had the pleasure to be associated [with]. The story of Ray Kroc should ignite adult audiences this summer and send the incredible team of John Lee Hancock and Michael Keaton back to the Dolby Theatre.” It has reportedly been scoring well in test screenings which suggests the summer release date will help break it out to a wider audience. It arrives after a lacklustre year at the Oscars for the Weinstein Company with just one win - at odds with their track record.The Founder will be released in US cinemas on 5 August; dates for UK and Australia yet to be confirmed