Colin Butler’s first call was from a girl, perhaps seven or eight years old, in a phone box in Northern Ireland. Her father was “a devil” and she wasn’t going home, she blurted out. Thus began Childline, 30 years ago this autumn.Butler, then a teacher, was one of the volunteers operating the 30 telephone lines available to the new organisation that first evening. They had no idea what to expect. As it turned out, the lines were swamped: an estimated 50,000 calls were attempted that night by children desperate to talk in confidence about abuse or other things troubling them. Esther Rantzen, the TV celebrity behind the initiative, declared: “Childline is here to stay and will remain open round the clock.”And so it has, though there have been narrow squeaks along the way – not least in 2006, when a funding crisis forced a merger with children’s charity the NSPCC, and in 2011, when another crisis led to  20% cuts in the operation. Butler, now 69, remains an active volunteer, one of hundreds working at Childline’s 12 bases around the UK who carry out some 300,000 counselling sessions a year with children and young people.Online pressures creating 'nation of deeply unhappy children', says charity Yet things have changed. In 1986, the predominant issue raised by children was sexual abuse, the extent of which was only then starting to be recognised. Today, children’s concerns tend to be about family relationships, low self-esteem and unhappiness. Almost a third of calls relate to mental health.The other big change is in the way children engage with Childline. After an internet chat facility was started in 2009, more than 70% of all contact is now online. Telephone remains the more popular choice among boys and all under-11s, but even in this younger age group the proportion communicating online has climbed to 43%. This shows an organisation moving with the times and responding to children’s changing lifestyles and preferences. Counselling has more widely adopted online techniques with seemingly good results – think Big White Wall, which works with adults – and some children will undoubtedly find it easier to disclose uncomfortable things in writing than in conversation.At a seminar held last week to mark Childine’s 30th anniversary, Rantzen – now the organisation’s president – described how she had sat alongside a counsellor exchanging messages on screen with a young girl who eventually disclosed that her father was sexually abusing her. “It took her 20 minutes, about the time it would have taken on the phone, but she got there,” Rantzen said.But there is surely something distinctive about verbal communication that risks being lost. As John Cameron, the NSPCC head of helplines, told the seminar, organised by Southampton University, there was a “value of voice” that enabled a child to engage more meaningfully with a counsellor and more emotionally with the issues confronting them. When it came to choice of technology, there might be an important distinction between what a child wanted and what they needed. Cameron stressed that he was not dismissing the role of online counselling, but that it should be seen as part of a potential progression from electronic message to – where appropriate in the counsellor’s judgment – one or more telephone conversations.That sounds right. Rantzen, ever inventive and thinking again about children after her launch in 2013 of The Silver Line, a helpline for older people, is contemplating a Childline “sub-brand” – working title: Is it OK? – aimed at teenagers who want to check that things they are being asked to do are appropriate. The idea is in part a response to recent grooming scandals and, while it might be tempting to conceive it as an online service, the victims of those scandals plainly could have been helped by talking to a responsible, trusted and independent adult.Running Childline costs the NSPCC more than £20m a year, of which a little over £3m comes from government. Is it needed as much in 2016 as it was in 1986? Probably yes – the number of contacts by children is little changed and holding steady – but in different ways. The trick will be to keep adapting while remaining true to that founding vision of an understanding voice at the end of a telephone.