1. According to the US novelist Vicki Baum, what institution “always demands the greatest understanding of the art of insincerity possible between two human beings”?2. “Of unexcelled usefulness to historians … (its) intricate realism recorded with the restraint of a Jane Austen and the depth of reflection of a Proust.” These words describe which 11th-century novel, the work of the Japanese princess Murasaki Shikibu? 3. Observing that “(its) shape, efficiency … and simplicity … is really the endpoint of Cartesian perfection”, of what vehicle did columnist Zoe Williams write: “the perfect clunk-click of symbiosis that people associate with nooky is completely expressed in the relationship (between it and man)”.4. Before Iain Duncan Smith, who was the last Conservative party leader not to fight a general election? 5. Registered as a proprietary name in 1938 in reference to its unprepossessing appearance, which hybrid citrus fruit was first produced in Jamaica by crossing a Seville orange, a grapefruit and a tangerine? 6. What seven-letter word links: an impure metal formed in the smelting of ores, a bright double star in the constellation Leo, and a Roman consul of the Punic wars, held as an example of a patriot who chose virtue over personal expediency? 7. “(His death) confirms the analysis he made. This text event was unintended by its author and its meaning can only be deciphered by its readers”. These words refer to the death of which academic in 2004? 8. In the second millennium of the common era, which century saw the smallest number of reigning monarchs on the throne of England or, after 1707, Great Britain? 9. A cenotaph modelled on the Choragic Monument of Lysicrates in Athens, an exact copy of the To-ho Pagoda in Canton and a thatched cottage originally built to house a blind Welsh harper are among structures created by the eccentric 15th Earl of Shrewsbury in the gardens of which country house, now associated with more contemporary amusements? 10. The Kannada “vee”, the Cyrillic capital “short ee”, the Japanese Katakana “wa” plus “ee” and the Greek “omega” all appear prominently on which organisation’s logo? 11. What is the lowest positive integer to contain the letter “c” when it is spelled out as a word in English? 12. Which figure from the book of Genesis has a name that, when read backwards, becomes a prefix denoting 10 to the power of minus nine? 13. Give any one of the three six-letter anagrams meaning: in Japanese zen, sudden enlightenment; in Greek grammar, the simple past tense and, in mathematics, the magnitudes of quantities relative to one other? 14. “University Challenge, which I watch every week, is the BBC programme I admire above all others.” This sentence contains examples of two different types of relative clause. Name both. 15. Yellow Mountain Fur Peak, Spring Snail, Big Red Robe, Dragon Well and Iron Goddess are among names that appear in Chinese lists of the 10 most notable varieties of what product? 16. “Wherever law ends, tyranny begins.” These words begin a proposition by which philosopher, in a work of 1689? 17. With an estimated 80 million speakers, which Austronesian language is often said to be the largest language without an official status? It takes its name from a populous island slightly larger than England. 18. What day of the week will it be 100 days after Monday? 19. In 1970, the Japanese roboticist Masahiro Mori originated what term to describe the theoretical point at which a robot becomes so human-like that it is psychologically unsettling to the observer? The answer is a two-word English term. 20. Meaning “said once only”, what two-word Greek term denotes a word or word-form that is recorded only once in a text, in the work of a particular author, or in a body of literature? The 2016 grand final airs tonight at 8pm on BBC2. 