Last year the collapse of a factory in Bangladesh put the spotlight on how companies treat their staff. Some 1,200 people died because two floors had been illegally added to the building. A number of big brands were connected to the factory – including Primark, Matalan and Walmart – and since the disaster there has been a lot of pressure for them and other businesses to become more ethical.As well as prompting people to reconsider where they buy their clothes, the disaster caused people to question the moral credentials of where they worked. But how do you know if a company meets your standards?With incidents like this it's easy to see what areas a business is lacking in, but what about the places that don't make it into the news? And it's not simply about not wanting to be employed at a multinational that doesn't take responsibility for its workers abroad, it's also about whether a company is environmentally friendly and how it spends the profit it makes. Does it give any money to charity, for example?There are lots of companies out there who strive to be ethical – there are job sites dedicated to them and each year The Ethisphere Institute publishes a list of the best. But it can still be tricky to determine whether a business shares similar values. Our panel of experts will be online on Thursday 7 August from 2pm to 4pm to answer any questions you have and give advice on what you should be looking for.We'll be discussing:• Where to look for ethical jobs• How to assess whether a company is ethical• The different issues you should consider – from sustainability to financial investmentThe Q&A takes place in the comments section below this article. Taking part is easier than ever: you can create a free Guardian account, or log in using your Twitter or Facebook profiles to comment. Alternatively, you can tweet us @GuardianCareers or email your questions to Hannah.Friend@theguardian.com who can post them for you.Our panelMart Drake-Knight is a designer at Rapanui, Isle of Wight. Based in an economic black spot, the eco-fashion brand makes ecological and ethically accredited clothing in their factory staffed by young islanders. It is recognised as one of the UK's top social ventures for battling youth unemployment.Debbie Hockham is the co-founder of the The I Am Group, an ethical recruitment and events organisation, which brings together those working in charities, social enterprises and not-for-profits to learn, share knowledge, make connections and find work.Caroline Hooley is the corporate responsibility and partnerships manager at blue-chip energy company National Grid. Caroline is responsible for setting National Grid's responsibility strategy for the UK and US. She ensures initiatives address a range of business and social needs such as climate impact, sustainable design, social mobility and education.Rob Devlin is the community resourcing manager at the Co-op. He is responsible for helping thousands of unemployed people get back to work across the UK, through the Co-operative community resourcing programme. He also works for several charities helping young people at risk of offending or young offenders to get back into sustainable careers.Clare Whitmell is a Guardian contributor and a qualified business communication trainer. Clare specialises in writing and presentation skills coaching. She also blogs about CV writing and job-hunting tips on JobMarketSuccess.com.Felipe Zalamea is the founder of Sustainable Pangea and director of Sumak Travel; a unique ethical travel operator in South America which focuses on sustainable tourism and supporting local economies. He is also involved in the social enterprise sector in London.Simon Cohen is a social commentator and inspirational speaker. He is also a champion of unconventional wisdom, founder and ex-managing director of Global Tolerance, an international communications agency specalising in social change, with previous clients including the Dalai Lama, United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (Unesco) and Ted talks.Stefan Siegel founded NOT JUST A LABEL (NJAL) in 2008, a support platform for emerging fashion designers, representing 16,500 designers in 106 countries. It helps designers gain exposure at no cost, allows them to work in their local communities, and sell worldwide via the website, empowering artisanship and combating fast fashion.Stella Hall is an award-winning festival director based in the North of England. Her most recent project is the Festival of Thrift, where she was the driving force behind the opening success in 2013 and subsequent recommission of the ethical, sustainable and thrift based festival.This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more content and advice like this direct to your inbox, sign up for our weekly update and careers ebook.