Britain’s Most Spectacular Backyard Builds 8pm, BBC2In sheds across Britain, casually brilliant eccentrics are at work. This quirky celebration sees Sara Cox and Piers Taylor assess the construction of three quixotic pet projects: a sweet-dispensing carousel, a fully operational robot and an automated breakfast-maker. It’s essentially a paean to lifelong playfulness and the joy of creating something pointless and charming for its own sake; self-consciously daft and thoroughly good fun. Phil HarrisonMr vs Mrs: Call the Mediator9pm, BBC2The Beeb’s first foray into fixed-rig factual follows British couples undergoing divorce mediation. Sue and Peter can’t work out how to split their assets, while Martin and Nicky are divided over custody arrangements. We also meet Jason and Vicky, who haven’t spoken in six months and meet with their mediator individually. Once you get past the strangeness of observing such personal dealings, it’s both fascinating and really rather sad. Hannah J DaviesLucy Worsley: Mozart’s London Odyssey 9pm, BBC4London made Jimi Hendrix and it made Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, too – so argues Lucy Worsley’s compelling documentary. It traces little Wolfie’s journey through Georgian concert halls with his dad Leopold’s tireless PR machine in tow; enduring audiences chatting through the eight-year-old’s symphonies and jealous smear campaigns, which spread rumours that he was really just a very small man. Ali CatterallSoundbreaking9pm, Sky ArtsHow are great records made? This series about their production lines up some pretty cool people to try to make it sound interesting. Evidently “producer” is a moveable phrase, describing both George Martin, who could write a string arrangement, and Brian Eno, whose involvement is more: “Why don’t we try this in turquoise?” Whatever they do, they are clearly indispensable, but their conversation has the occasional tang of sour grapes. John Robinson The Border 10pm, Channel 4There’s an apposite theme to the latest Walter Presents offering: the work of guards charged with preventing migrants entering the EU. The border here is the invisible line between Poland and Ukraine in the isolated Bieszczady mountains, where Captain Rebrow’s anti-people-trafficking unit is targeted in a bomb blast. But who instituted this attack and why? An admirably stylish and tense Polish thriller available to view in full online after this opener has been broadcast. Jonathan WrightTaskmaster 10pm, DaveA new series of the show in which Greg Davies sets a series of increasingly irritating tasks for famous comedians, this week comprising Jon Richardson, Katherine Ryan, Joe Wilkinson, Doc Brown and Richard Osman. At stake and up for grabs is the most important document each comedian owns. In the case of Joe Wilkinson, it’s his marriage certificate, so nothing trivial. The biggest take-home from this is that lateral thinking is clearly not a comic’s forte. Ben ArnoldThe Secret Life of a Bus Garage11pm, ITVAn utterly lovely little film focusing on Stockwell bus garage and concentrating less on commuter journeys than the life-changing ones itsstaff took to get to London. They’re from Jamaica, Hungary, Somalia and Ghana, and film-maker Nick Poyntz draws out stories of the strife that made them flee their country of birth and the happy family they have formed in the British workplace. We’re part of the gang, sharing in both joy and sadness. Jack Seale Film choiceCop Land (James Mangold, 1997), 1.45am, Film4Garrison, New Jersey, is a small town inhabited almost exclusively by New York cops, and for the gone-to-seed, heavily overweight sheriff Sylvester Stallone life is easy. But then a murder brings in Internal Affairs man Robert De Niro, who makes it clear that many of these cops have gone bad – Harvey Keitel’s top dog in particular. Stallone’s inner turmoil, as he finally decides that a man’s gotta do, etc, is unexpectedly engaging, until Mangold settles for a finale of routine heroics. Paul HowlettToday’s live sportEuro 2016 football Groups C and D wrap up, with Northern Ireland facing a daunting match against Germany and a tasty Croatia-Spain match-up. Ukraine v Poland is available on the BBC interactive service. 4.30pm, BBC1, 7.30pm ITV & ITV4One-day cricket: West Indies v Australia From Bridgetown, Barbados. 5.55pm, Sky Sports 1Women’s hockey: New Zealand v Great Britain A Champions Trophy pool match. 8pm, BT Sports 1 