Sunday began as the days now always begin on the MV Akademik Shokalskiy, with a briefing for the passengers on the status of the rescue effort.The crew and expedition leaders had been poring over weather and ice forecasts and speaking with maritime rescue agencies and other ships' captains since the early morning. At 10am they decided it was time to warn the rest of the passengers to steel themselves for the extreme-case scenario if the icebreakers could not get us out within the next 48 hours: an air evacuation."We're always making contingency plans," said Greg Mortimer, co-leader of the Australasian Antarctic Expedition (AAE), which chartered the ship. An evacuation, he explained, would involve a helicopter landing on a patch of firm ice next to the Shokalskiy, which has been locked in ice since Christmas Day. Passengers would fly to nearby ships and then travel to the nearest Australian Antarctic base, Casey, before sailing on home in a journey of many weeks.If there was any panic in the packed auditorium, it didn't show. People asked for more details about how the evacuation would work, wondered how many possessions they would be allowed to take and how they might contact family and friends (and airlines) back home, given the ship's limited telecommunications. They were told there were many unknowns at this stage, but attempts to contact families had begun.The passengers took the news well, but the tension was released only when one asked how they might get back any possessions they would have to leave behind. "It is likely to end up at your front door or sold in a market in Vladivostok," said Mortimer, to roars of laughter from the room.Mortimer said the ultimate decision was in the hands of the captain of the Australian icebreaker Aurora Australis, on its way to help the Shokalskiy. The vessel was due to arrive at the edge of the sea ice – about 20 nautical miles from the Russian ship – in the early hours of Monday morning, local time. As soon as the weather was clear enough it would begin trying to cut through the ice. If it had not made enough progress over the following day, its captain could then call for an evacuation.The sea ice has proved a formidable obstacle so far. Appearing fast around us last week, thickening to four to five metres in some places, it defeated the efforts of a Chinese icebreaker, Xue Long, to break through last week."What we're depending on is the extra grunt of the Aurora Australis," said Mortimer. "It's a more traditional icebreaker hull, which is like a bathtub with a big engine inside it – it can push over the ice and lay down on top and work its way like that."Sunday then became a day of waiting. At a balmy 2C and with hardly any wind, those who chose to spend the morning outside could step into the sunshine without the usual coats, scarves and gloves. The metal of the deck was warm to the touch and the ice around us glistened with a sheen of freshly melted water.Though pleasant, conditions meant anyone who had chosen to spend the day wandering through the ice field had to be even more careful than usual – the area was filled with hidden traps where the ice or snow had softened and could easily have buckled under the pressure of a human foot. There is at least half a kilometre of cold ocean beneath us.Some built snowmen, others had snowball fights. Perhaps because no one had seen any living plants for almost a month, someone built a snow tree. Inside the ship, the expedition doctor was leading a first-aid course, a Scrabble tournament was in full flow and one of the chefs had started giving groups of passengers rudimentary lessons in Russian.By the afternoon, from the top deck we could see cracks and open pools of water in the surrounding ice. The (relatively) warm day had weakened the solid mass around us, it seemed. The Xue Long, still parked about eight nautical miles away, sent a helicopter to look at the cracked ice around the ship and to scope out potential new escapes to open water. For a moment the passengers, who all waved at the helicopter as it made circles of our ship, got excited that the Xue Long might have decided the sea ice was weakening and restart its attempt to move towards us.But the Chinese vessel stayed put. On Friday it had tried to battle through the thick ice towards the Shokalskiy but had to turn back after 12 hours because the going was too difficult. Despite appearances to the untrained eye, the conditions on Sunday had not changed enough for a second attempt.  Passengers receive a briefing about the latest ice conditions from the expedition co-leader Greg Mortimer. Photograph: Andrew Peacock/AFP/Getty ImagesMortimer said that, contingency plans aside, the ship was in a safe condition and there was no threat to life or limb. "The pressure at this point in time is one of time – that artificial contrivance of, well, we must get out of this situation as quickly as we can," he said. "But we don't have to, we're OK."That would change, he added, if an iceberg started moving towards the ship – although the closest are several nautical miles away at present and there is no danger. If any of them did get close, the ship would have a day or two's notice to carry out any necessary evacuation.When it became stuck, the ship was a little over two weeks into its month-long expedition from Bluff, in New Zealand, to Commonwealth Bay, East Antarctica. The passengers were following the route of the great Antarctic explorer and scientist Douglas Mawson, leader of the original AAE of 1911, repeating his wildlife, ocean and weather observations to build a picture of how this region had changed in 100 years.The ship has 50 or so passengers, including scientists and paying members of the public, and 20 crew. It became stuck in the ice near Cape de la Motte, in East Antarctica, aroundabout 1,500 nautical miles from Hobart in Tasmania, after blizzards hit the vessel on Christmas Eve. The surrounding pack ice was pushed by strong winds against the Antarctic continental landmass, pinning the Shokalskiy in place.By the time the sun dipped on the horizon late on Sunday, the temperature had dropped and the wind was up. Fat clumps of snowflakes began falling as the light dimmed, and by midnight the clear views of the ice field that we had enjoyed a few hours earlier were gone, hidden by a haze of cloud. The deck was quickly covered in thick snow, which melted and refroze into ice on the external steps, doors and handrails.Mortimer, a veteran of Antarctica with more than 100 visits to the continent under his belt, said he wasn't surprised by the difficulties the Shokalskiy had faced this week."The combination of elements is really unfortunate – a couple of blizzards and many, many days blowing in the wrong direction has piled heaps of trouble on our shoulders," he said."The power of the forces at work, that's the constant reminder – how overwhelmingly powerful the natural forces are here. That's the fearsome, gnarly-teeth side of Antarctica, and its great beauty as well, its allure."