I am a huge fan of the allium family in all its guises, from onions and shallots to chives and all the rest. In Mexico, the onions are so sweet, they are often scattered raw over all sorts of dishes to add crisp lightness and gentle acidity. At home, I love to macerate shallots in vinegar, to add piquancy to salad dressings; and, in winter, I am often to be found slowly sweating onions into a brown, sticky mass, for use in pissaladière, French onion soup and a host of other mouth-watering dishes. Leeks, too, are just as versatile: leek quiche, leeks vinaigrette, baked potatoes with melted leeks and grated sheep’s cheese… This cheap and cheerful vegetable is one of the home cook’s best friends, so here are two simple recipes that show it off in all its glory.Harissa and coconut-roasted leeks with coriander riceThis warm, comforting dish contains no meat, but it has such depths of flavour that it should perk anyone up no end. Serves four.750g trimmed leeks, cut into 3 pieces and then halved lengthways350g jasmine riceSalt and freshly ground black pepper60g harissa paste1 large garlic clove, peeled and crushed1-2 tbsp soft brown sugar, plus 1 pinch extra3 limes, juiced, plus the zest of 1 lime300ml coconut milk1 pinch light brown sugar2 tsp fish sauce1 large bunch coriander, washed and roughly chopped1 large handful roasted peanuts, choppedBring a pan of water to a boil, then simmer the leeks for six to seven minutes, until just tender. Drain into a colander and leave to steam dry. Meanwhile, put the rice in a medium saucepan, add 650ml cold water to cover and season with a few generous pinches of salt. Bring to a boil, clap on the lid, turn the heat to low and simmer very gently for 20 minutes, without touching the lid. Turn off the heat and leave to rest, still covered.Heat a griddle pan to high. In a bowl, mix the harissa, garlic, a tablespoon of soft brown sugar and the juice and zest of one lime. Season to taste, adding more sugar or lime, if it needs it, then toss with the leeks. When the griddle is smoking hot, grill the leeks, turning regularly, until lightly charred on both sides, then transfer to a bowl.In a small saucepan, heat the coconut milk with the light brown sugar, fish sauce and remaining lime juice, then simmer until reduced by half. Taste and season with a little salt, if needed. Put the leeks in a heatproof bowl that you can take to the table, pour over the warm, coconutty dressing and keep on a low heat until you’re ready to serve. Fluff the rice with a fork, season generously and stir through the coriander. Scatter the peanuts over the leeks and serve with bowls of the steaming rice.Cheddar, leek and maris piper soda bread Although I made enough soda bread to last me a lifetime when I worked at Ballymaloe in Cork, I still adore the stuff. It’s the easiest bread recipe I know. Makes one large loaf.25g butter1½ tbsp light brown sugar1 small bunch lemon thyme, leaves picked, plus a few extra branches2 leeks, trimmed, washed and cut into 1cm-thick rounds1 pinch cayenne pepper (optional)100g extra-mature cheddar, finely grated250g maris piper (or other floury potato), peeled and cut into quarters300g plain flour, plus extra for dusting300g wholegrain spelt flour1 tsp bicarbonate of soda1 tsp fine sea salt568ml buttermilk (ie two large pots)40g parmesan, finely gratedHeat the oven to 200C/390F/gas mark 6. Heat the butter and sugar in a large frying pan, season generously with salt, pepper and the lemon thyme, then saute the leeks for 15-20 minutes, stirring from time to time, until sticky and caramelised. Leave to cool and, once completely cool, stir in the cayenne, if using, and all but a tablespoon of the cheddar.Meanwhile fill a small pan with cold water, add the potatoes and bring to a boil. Simmer for 10 minutes, until tender, then drain and leave to steam dry in the pan. Once dry, mash and leave to cool.Lightly flour a clean work surface. In a large bowl, mix the flours, bicarb and salt. In a second bowl, lightly whisk the leek mixture through the buttermilk, then incorporate the mashed potato. Make a well in the centre of the flour bowl, then pour in the leek and potato mixture, and whisk to combine. Tip the dough on to the work surface and knead briefly, just until it comes together: the more you work soda bread dough, the heavier it will be, so the quicker you can get the loaf into the oven after mixing the wet ingredients with the dry, the better.Shape the dough into a ball and put on to a floured baking sheet. Cut a deep cross into the top of the dough with a very sharp knife, then dust with flour and scatter with the remaining cheddar and parmesan. Press the remaining branches of lemon thyme into the loaf. Bake for an hour, until the loaf is cooked through. To check that it’s done, turn the loaf over and tap the underside: once cooked, it will sound hollow. If it still sounds solid, pop the bread back in the oven for 10 minutes more, then test again. Leave to cool before tearing apart and serving with a crisp salad and a plate of cheeses and hams. And for the rest of the week…The spicy, exotic flavours of today’s first dish also work very well with sweet potato, cauliflower or swede, so roast your favourite winter veg in the harissa and coconut sauces until caramelised, sticky and golden. Leftover cooked jasmine rice makes very good fried rice, but don’t keep it in the fridge for more than a few days. Soda bread makes great toast: at this time of year, I’d be inclined to load it with cream cheese and cucumber, and think of summer.This article was edited on 14 March 2017. An earlier version omitted to add the mashed potato to the soda bread mix. 