Six weeks ago there were six inches of snow, I was told, covering hills and roads near Vallelunga in central Sicily. By last week, when I visited, it was springishly green. The hills were covered in young wheat, roadsides softened by feathery bushes of something that looks like wild fennel, but isn’t, and masses of ubiquitous wood sorrel, with its acid yellow flowers. Just up the road from my friend and teacher Fabrizia’s house, the almond tree, always the first to flower, has put on her puffs of pale pink blossom.The Greeks saw almond as a symbol of hope, and they brought the trees to Sicily, where it felt comfortable and settled in. This particular tree certainly looks comfortable, her branches arching up and blooming hopefully, while less precocious fruit and nut trees in the garden are still bare skeletons. As eye-catching as the almond are the citrus trees, which are still loaded with blazing fruit, a sight for my sore eyes. Behind the house and farm the vegetable patch is quiet, the unexpected snow having slowed everything down, causing shortages both locally and further away. Last week, there were lettuces though, and cultivated cardoons, which, although less formidable than their wild ancestors, still have great silvery stems defended by thorns.Further down the patch are some dramatic, head-turning artichokes. Related to the sunflower and daisy, artichokes are buds. Their aim is similar to the almond tree: to burst open into a bloom, which for them means tufts of violet stigmas – although we pick them before this happens. Beware of thistles though!      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Keep rubbing the cut edges with the cut side of a lemon as you trim, then keep the cut pieces in acidulated water so they don’t discolour. ‘ Photograph: Rachel Roddy for the GuardianThe variety growing in the garden of Case Vecchie, Fabrizia’s place, have thorns on their stem, and the leaves of each slender, green bud finish in sharp points; very different from the comely, purple-stained globe variety the Romans enjoy in abundance. Three days later, I still have an aching nail from where a thorn dug deep as I foolishly tried to pick, rather than snip, a Sicilian artichoke. This variety also has a hairier choke inside, which needs scraping out, unlike the Roman chokeless ones. Each variety has rich velvety flesh and can be used for today’s recipe.Whatever the variety, you need to trim it. This means means tugging away the tougher leaves, then paring the outer layer from the base and stem until – as the writer Molly O’Neill notes – it looks like a crew-cut pine cone. It seems a drastic cut, but it is actually the most efficient, keeping every edible bit. Trimmings make great compost. Keep rubbing the cut edges with the cut side of a lemon as you trim, then keep the cut pieces in acidulated water so they don’t discolour. In the spirit of using up and less waste, keep a couple of squeezed-out lemon halves for this task, and then use them again to wash up, or soften your elbows.Rachel Roddy’s recipe for minestrone soup with regional variations | A kitchen in Rome It is a lovely thing to mark time with this column, seeing seasons and dishes come around again like old mates, anticipating one thing, then glad to see the back of it, for a while. Classic Roman ways with artichokes when they are in season and spilling all over markets, are alla Romana – trimmed, stuffed with mint and garlic then braised until tender; or Jewish style – trimmed and fried whole. In a month or so, depending on the weather, it will be time for vignarola, the quintessential Roman spring stew of artichokes, peas and broad beans. I wait. Until then I have been inspired by something I recently ate at Leila’s Shop in London, which feels like a bridging-of-the-season dish, still offering the comfort of winter but also giving the hope of spring; a chunky stew, or steamy braise of potatoes, butter beans and artichokes.What is the difference between this dish and last week’s minestrone you may ask? Half a tin of tomatoes, 2 litres of water and 75 minutes is the answer. After the initial soffritto, the artichokes and potatoes, with the addition of wine to get things going, cook in their own juices, some of which are re-absorbed, some provide broth. Yet again, this is way more than a recipe, joining the battery of templates, such as minestrone, bean soup, frittata, braised meat we learn, then vary, according to season, what we have in, or how we feel.I was so glad to cook with butter beans. I forget how good they are, how fat and buttery, and, along with chickpeas, they seem to be a pulse that copes well with canning. Of course, you can soak and cook your own, in which case make double, so you have more beans and broth for another meal.This dish stands alone, but would be good served over rice, I imagine. We ate ours with bread and Mrs Kirkham’s glorious Lancashire cheese, chunks of which I am rationing so as to make a taste of England last as long as possible. Artichokes contain cynarin, an organic acid that confounds the tastebuds, making everything eaten afterwards, even a sip of water, taste sweet, even more so wine. This is why some people suggest not drinking wine with artichokes. I persevere.Braised artichoke and butter beansServes 41 onion, peeled, trimmed and diced1 carrot, peeled, trimmed and diced1 stick of celery, peeled, trimmed and diced1 small leek, peeled, trimmed and dicedA pinch of red chilli flakes6 tbsp extra virgin olive oil3 globe artichokes1 lemon, cut in half1 potato, peeled and dicedSalt250ml white wine or water2 x 400g tins of butter beans, drainedBread and cheese (such as Mrs Kirkham’s Lancashire cheese), to serve1 In a large, deep pan or casserole with a lid, gently fry the chopped vegetables and chilli, if using, in the olive oil over a low flame until soft and fragrant.2 Meanwhile, trim the artichokes. Rub your hands with the cut side of a lemon and keep it for rubbing the artichoke, then squeeze the other half of the lemon into a bowl of cold water. Pull back the darker leaves of the first artichoke until they break off and you are left with just pale ones. Trim the top third of the leaves. Slice the tough outer layer from the stem and base, rubbing all the cut sides with lemon. Cut the trimmed choke into quarters and drop into the lemon water. Repeat with the remaining artichokes.3 Lift the artichokes from the water. Add to the pan along with the potato and a pinch of salt. Stir so each piece glistens with oil, add the wine, which will whoosh with a brief flame. Reduce to a simmer, then cover the pan and leave to braise for 15 minutes, or until the vegetables are tender, lifting the lid to stir every now and then.4 Add the butter beans, stir and cook uncovered for 5 minutes or so, stirring gently, until the vegetables are soft and there is a fair bit of broth. Taste for salt. Let it sit for a while. Reheat gently. Serve, making sure everyone gets a little broth.Rachel Roddy is a food writer based in Rome and the author of Five Quarters: Recipes and Notes from a Kitchen in Rome (Saltyard) and winner of the André Simon food book award @racheleatsThis article was amended on 13 March to state that the cynarin that artichokes contain is an organic acid. 