‘I always see you and your sister riding the bus together,” a man said to me once. “I think you have such a beautiful relationship. You two are adorable.”“Thank you,” I said. What I didn’t mention was that she was my daughter, not my sister. But it was a step up from the usual reaction when people saw us out together.I was not prepared for all the judgment that comes with being a mother at 20. Everyone looked at me as though I were a criminal. I appeared young for my age, too. In my leather jacket, miniskirt and Adidas running shoes, I probably passed for 16. Women would come up and ask, “Excuse me? Is that your baby? How old are you?” There was much tsking.When my daughter became a little older and people began mistaking us for sisters, I went along with it because that seemed to help with our PR.I didn’t have a mother when I was growing up. All I knew about motherhood was that it was so awful that my mother had run off when I was seven, not wanting to have anything to do with it. As a result, I didn’t have much of a childhood, either. Let’s just say it was difficult and that I was delighted to become a young adult and never to have to think about that phase of life again. But while I was at university, childhood decided that it wasn’t done with me.I lived in a huge, beautiful, rundown apartment. There was torn wallpaper in all the rooms and columns with fauns playing pan flutes in the hallways. You could see your breath in winter. I shared it with six guys who were humanities students. We usually went to bed at 5am, after getting high and laughing about philosophical conundrums all night.I believed that turning 20 brought all sorts of new freedoms. I didn’t think it brought new responsibilities.Then strange things started to happen. I couldn’t remember my lines in theatre class. Songs made me cry. I couldn’t listen to the Smashing Pumpkins because they made me feel too much. And taking warm baths made me think about death. Riding on the subway made me throw up.I went to see a doctor, who informed me I was five months pregnant. I was so shocked. I remember asking whether it was OK to go to a Beastie Boys concert. What about Aerosmith?I didn’t have a single complication during my pregnancy. The baby was snuggled up in its space pod – on deep sleep – until its arrival at planet Earth. Nothing could awaken or disturb her.It was so freakish to be having a child at my age, that as I grew bigger, my friends gathered around me to marvel. I pulled up my black, ragged sweater and showed them my belly. They all reached out and touched it. It was proof that a strange rumour they had heard since they were children was true. It was the beginning of life, which like death – wasn’t supposed to happen to people our age.I was the subject of much gossip. All the boys I knew pretended they were the baby’s father.Despite having been a party girl that year, I did know who the baby belonged to: a boy I’d been sleeping with on and off since I was 16, named Chris. His mother visited me in my apartment. She said Chris and I had to move into an apartment together. She even gave us the address of one to look at. What did we know? She was emphatic, so we moved in together.He was creative and sweet, good at drawing and design, and at arranging things in the flat prettily. Plants seemed to like to grow around him. He always had friends, and owned a great cat. But he was unable to deal with disappointment. His mother had no idea he had a serious drug problem. Despite having a baby to look after, Chris did not stop getting high. He just got worse.When our daughter was about five months old, I found Chris lying on the bed, his face blue. Later, as one of the ambulance drivers was reviving Chris, the other told me Chris was would eventually overdose and die. I knew it, too. I also knew I wasn’t going to wait for it to happen. I was going to leave him. I stood on the balcony that night looking at the city. The gravity of being 20 and about to become a single mother sank in.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Heather O’Neill with her daughter when she was a toddler. Photograph: Courtsey Heather O'NeillI moved with my daughter into a tiny, cheap apartment and did minimum wage jobs, which were all I could get at that age. Thank God my child was cute. All her clothes came from charity shops or free clothing bins at the women’s centre. I got her a black wool coat with white plastic buttons shaped like ducks. She refused to brush her hair. It was a crazy blond nest. She always looked as if she had come in from a windstorm. Occasionally, our cuteness prompted people to acts of kindness. An ice-cream truck driver always gave her free ice-cream.I was still self-absorbed. I left her on the subway twice. And in a grocery cart. I was off down the street eating a banana when I remembered about her.I had always wanted to be independent. But I had this baby who followed me everywhere, needing things. She wanted help tying her shoes. She talked like a Beckett clown. She was worried about existential nonsense. Once she told me she was afraid she would be killed by a snail. “A snail? A snail! No one is afraid of snails.” I looked at her sitting sadly, her hands clasped together, worried about snails. “Don’t worry,” I said. “I won’t let a snail kill you.” “Thank you,” she said.At some point, I figured I might as well accept being a mother. When I look back on those days, I don’t think of myself as an adult. I was still in the realm of make-believe On a grey day at an empty amusement park, we decided to test how many times you could ride on the rollercoaster without getting sick. By the 20th time, we were discussing dinner with our hair upside down, as though we were on the city bus.We went to every showing of Swan Lake that came to Montreal. I loved anything to do with swans. Once we took a paddle boat out to the centre of a pond. We threw some bread in the water around us, so we could be surrounded by swans. I thought we could achieve a higher consciousness. We ended up paddling for our lives.We decided to mimic Nabokov’s butterfly collection. We had little access to exotic butterflies, so our pinboard was covered with dragonflies, beetles, cicadas and houseflies. But it was splendid. We sat in front of paintings at the museum arguing about them. We stood outside the wolf’s cage at the zoo, imagining its thoughts. We could debate for hours. It was as if I had a mad assistant, a sidekick. We were like Sherlock Holmes and Dr Watson.Then, in my 30s, my life started to come together. I started to have an income. She was a teenager and we had become members of the middle class. When I look back on those days, I don’t think of myself as an adult. I was still in the realm of make-believe. I think of my daughter’s childhood as part of my own. We had a lovely one together.• The Lonely Hearts Hotel by Heather O’Neill is published by Quercus on 23 February, £16.99. To order a copy for £14.44, go to bookshop.the guardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.