Nuance isn’t something the Tommy Hilfiger brand is known for. The American designer would rather stick to more familiar fashion themes to fuel his multibillion-dollar label. Hence Monday’s show at New York fashion week being an all out indulgence of Hilfiger’s self-professed love of all things nautical.A huge ocean liner named the “TH Atlantic” dominated the venue, complete with steam rising from its chimneys and a star spangled banner attached to the stern. The deck formed the catwalk while vintage-looking trunks with travel stickers were stacked at the front. But this was a very nostalgic take on nautical fashion – more Gentlemen Prefer Blondes than fisherman chic. Before the show Hilfiger explained that he was inspired by “1940s cruise liners; an era when people dressed up to travel”.On the deck, no nautical detail was left unexplored. From sailor tattoo prints on chiffon dresses, to rope motifs, to wide leg sailor pants, to fisherman sweaters to military coats with gold frogging, the theme was hard to miss. But amongst the familiarity there were original elements: a Breton top was reprised in leather and a pair of dungarees had a flirty sailor collar at the back.This singularity is arguably the label’s commercial strength. Customers know what to expect and the label delivers established trends in its own handwriting. In recent seasons, shearling, silky bomber jackets and pyjama dressing have all proved to be commercially successful trends, and all were visible on the Hilfiger runway. The ablity to absorb trends and repurpose them in line with your own nautical agenda is a neat trick.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Models present creations from the Tommy Hilfiger fall/winter 2016 collection during New York fashion week. Photograph: Andrew Kelly/ReutersEarlier this week Hilfiger jumped in on another trend that is fast spreading through New York fashion week and beyond. The designer announced that he, too, is breaking high fashion’s long established cycle of showing clothes on the catwalk six months before they are available to buy. As of September the brand will in part move to a model of consumer immediacy – showing clothes on the catwalk that are available to buy instantaneously. One collection will be a collaboration with the social media supermodel Gigi Hadid, who will reveal teasers of her designs on Instagram to her 13 million followers in the run-up to the event.Diane von Fürstenberg is another New York designer who is in favour of aligning runway presentations with retail drops. As chairman of the CFDA, the governing body of US fashion, Von Fürstenberg hired the Boston Consulting Group to rethink the traditional role of the show in the fashion industry with a view to both protecting designers and focusing more on consumers.Von Fürstenberg’s answer for her own brand was to take her designs off the catwalk and into her own house for what she called an “experience” rather than a show. She choreographed several vingettes that included models wearing louche 1970s dresses while dancing around as if getting ready for a night out, a few of which were available to buy immediately.