Meilyr Jones stands on a street corner not far from Pigneto, wearing gold trainers and a long belted overcoat, his face lit up by the day. It has been, he explains, quite an experience: shooting a video for his next single, watching the sun rise, kissing a stranger and riding shotgun on a Vespa around the backroads of Rome.He leads me through the evening streets, warm with early spring, and is seemingly carried by a kind of buoyancy: talking about the sea, poetry, his childhood in Aberystwyth, his flatshare in London, heading down quiet roads, around corners, doubling back, until we find the bar he has been hunting: a narrow corridor where the wine comes served in plastic cups and the stereo plays opera. At the next table a man is giving a guitar lesson while a small boy plays hide and seek beneath the chairs.Meilyr Jones: 2013 review – beautiful chamber pop from Wales via Rome Rome is where, three years ago, Jones felt his life begin to change. For eight years and three albums he had fronted the band Race Horses. When they split in January 2013, he found himself cut adrift, 26 years old, questioning the direction of his life and his relationship with music. “It was a messy break and I felt that I’d lost friends,” he says. “I felt I’d developed a fear of committing to anything. I didn’t feel at all ready to think of myself as a solo musician. I just felt like being normal.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest He began investing his time into other artforms: he was dating a sculptor at the time, and his brother gave him a book on sculpture written by the German philosopher Johann Gottfried Herder. He read Byron and Berlioz’s memoirs and Goethe’s Italian Journey. “All these signs were leading me to Rome,” he recalls. “And I had an intuition that I should go there, that something good and magical might happen if I just looked the other way a little bit and let things happen.”Jones tries to explain the excitement of that time. “I started to feel a new life force,” he says. “It didn’t feel like an academic pursuit, it just felt like how it did when I discovered the Beatles for the first time.” He was weary, he adds, of a world that was “too knowing, and too niche”, of the “cool, affluent-sounding music” that seemed all-pervading. By contrast, he says, “[classical] sculpture and Renaissance music felt like a really living thing. I was enjoying Byron and Don Juan in a really vivid way. It didn’t feel exaggerated or put on – Byron and Keats were what felt real to me. And a love of nature, and my serious feelings of love.”  Jones performing at the End of the Road Festival 2015. Photograph: Burak Cingi/RedfernsSpeaking with Jones is much like this: a tumble of enthusiasms that can encompass Bel Canto and Let’s Wrestle in a single breath. In seemingly one conversational strand he’ll tell you of his love for children’s literature (his father was a children’s book editor), Fellini and the plastic floral arrangements you often find in Italian churches. It’s a quality his album 2013 captures, too: Scottish choirs lie down beside karaoke bars, Japanese buskers, orchestras, bursts of David Bowie’s Rebel Rebel. “That feels like modern life to me,” he says by way of explanation. “You can place the cheap next to the expensive thing and not put the emphasis on the expensive thing. You can like pop culture, and you can like recording with an orchestra, and just let them live together.”Jones always loved music and performance. “I remember coming home from school one day and saying to my mum: ‘I really want to sing in the Eistedfodd,’” he says. “And my mum was really shocked. I started singing duets with this guy who was really tiny, and I was really tall. But I loved it, I absolutely loved it. I just felt like I could do it, and all my feelings could go into singing.”A few years later he began learning the tuba. “And I got quite good at the tuba, I guess,” he says. “I loved it, I loved playing solos on it. I felt I could just close my eyes and swim in the sound. It felt really colourful and sensitive – like singing, where my feelings would just come into musical sound.”The love for the tuba persisted, even after he got madly into the Beatles, learned bass and started a band. And it was his love of the tuba that led him to study at the Royal College of Music, an experience he describes as “making me more excited about rock’n’roll”. He dropped out before graduation. “I thought it would be a really creative place,” he says, “but it was just dull.” He recalls the confusion of that first term, of not understanding how anything worked. “I didn’t come from a music college background, or private school, I was from a comprehensive,” he says. “And it kind of meant they all knew what to do, because they’d been in a younger version of that.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest We move on to a cinema bar a few streets away, sit on a sofa and watch the room. Jones spent six weeks living in Rome, though it felt longer. “Time seemed to stretch,” he says. “Nights felt really exciting and wild and free. And in the days I’d go running and go to churches and look at frescoes and lie down in the park and feel really happy. It was kind of a recovering thing. But it did feel like a new life.”He lived in a flatshare he found on Craigslist, staying up until the small hours with his flatmates, trying to follow their conversation though he had no Italian, trying to learn the language through reading Dante. He remembers one evening taking a copy of Tasso’s poetry to a bar, and a group of actors trying to translate it for him “til four or five in the morning”.He fell in love with the city’s looseness, he says. With the fact “you can’t apply a logical light to a place that operates from a place of faith and blood and lust”. He did not think about music. “I thought about other things,” he says. “But then nature just led to tunes starting coming into my head, and I started to write them down.” They did not sound like Race Horses songs. “I didn’t imagine playing them in a band, it was just that music was coming. It felt like a new way of writing music for me – light and balanced and not intense, but beautiful.”What he wanted, he says, was “to speak from a place that felt like it was dying, and that comes from music that was recorded in one room around one microphone, when people were closer, when people didn’t contrive themselves into versions of themselves when recording.” He craved something that was “gentle and dramatic and lovely and sweet, not crude”.I wonder how deliberate his intellectual nods are, how audiences might respond to songs that reference DH Lawrence and Berlioz. “There’s almost been a generation robbed of intelligence,” he says gently. “I think we live in a time where it’s so the wrong balance, where any whiff of it is seen as stuck-up. Everyone’s like: ‘Ooh, Byron, posh, fucking weird.’ And yeah, true, but essentially also really brave and human and easy to read – so easy to read! I can read it! It’s not psychological Russian stuff. It’s beautiful, effortless. And I think my criticism of now is the fact there’s not enough roughness. Things aren’t sexy enough, genuinely sexy. Things aren’t wild enough, things aren’t erotic enough, things aren’t gentle enough, things aren’t light enough, things aren’t fun enough.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jones performing with Race Horses at Latitude, 2010. Photograph: Andy Sheppard/RedfernsIn the bar a film club presentation is beginning and we shuffle our way out into the street, to the sound of music and motorbike engines, of busy restaurants and laughter spilling from nearby bars. Jones stops and beckons me down to where a window is all lit up and inside a room full of men and women are dancing the tango, their bodies studies in poise and flex.Jones looks enraptured. “That’s amazing!” he says, half to himself. I think back to something he told me earlier, as we left the bar. “In a way this is an exciting time to live in,” he said. “Because sex has turned into such a casual whatever, and the mind is neglected as well. And both those two things, they’re the best things, and they’re together hidden somewhere.” Just for a moment, looking at Jones’s face pressed up against a window in a backstreet in Rome, I wonder if we might have found them.2013 is out on Moshi Moshi