Theory: I don’t think the dancing house fell off the stage during Katy Perry’s Brits routine. I think it was trying to escape. Still, talk about out of the frying pan and into the fire. No sooner had the little dwelling jumped off the stage, away from the most will-this-do? “political” routine ever, than it fell into the clutches of some hideous UK music executives and their demurely coked second wives. It is now being forcibly relocated to Bray, and being fitted with a media room and conservatory.And so to the Brit awards in the age of Trump/Brexit/Ultron, which are still a tenth as edgy as they were in the late-90s era of political consensus, when even the Sun backed Tony Blair. Jarvis sabotaging Jacko, Chumbawamba offering an early shout on New Labour … I’m afraid I can’t do you any of that. What I can offer is a swear-bleep machine programmed to 1959, and an event that takes the same attitude to grime as Anthea Turner.Watching certain sections of this ubercorporate generation of stars have what they seem to be selling as a political awakening is an activity for the very patient, given that the level they reach tends to be one most people have passed at some point in their early teens. Praising Katy Perry simply for wearing a “Persist” armband at the Grammys is like praising a toddler for finally getting a wee in its potty. I suppose you have to do it, but it’s all a massive chore that only liars or the very dull don’t find wearying.Anyway, madam’s wokening goes on apace – at this rate, she will discover Noam Chomsky by 2067, by which point I hope to be too frail or dead to watch the Brits. At the O2 on Wednesday night, however, she was accompanied on stage by giant day-of-the-dead versions of Donald Trump and Theresa May, and the aforementioned dancing starter homes. Don’t ask me what precise point was being made. It’s The Emperor’s New Politics. Only that one little house cried out “But this is all just cobblers!”, and we saw what happened to it.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alec Shelbrooke: sworn enemy of pop stars and their sycophantic luvvie pals. Photograph: Gary Calton for the GuardianHaving said that, why not leave the critique to Alec Shelbrooke MP? Because – and I’m definitely going to offer him shifts on this column – the member of parliament for Elmet and Rothwell had much to say about Katy Perry’s performance. According to Alec: “This is yet another example of leftie luvvies not being able to accept a democratic outcome. The problem with these pop stars is they spend so much time surrounded by their sycophantic luvvie pals that they have no idea what’s actually going on out in the real world.”Right. I get the feeling there is no artistic endeavour – from the embarrassingly misfiring to the borderline genius – that Alec would not interpret as being another example of leftie luvvies not being able to accept a democratic outcome. The mysterious photo at the end of The Shining? Another example of leftie luvvies not being able to accept a democratic outcome. The Mona Lisa’s smile? The smug grin of another leftie luvvie not being able to accept a democratic outcome. The true meaning of Mulholland Drive? Betty is the version of herself leftie luvvie Diane could be if she would only accept a democratic outcome.Still, I suppose having a view about Katy Perry routines keeps Alec off the important business – or “the real world”, as he puts it. Indeed, in an era of striking timidity in all but the most ruthless and most ill-suited to power, I am beginning to suspect that the primary function of the Baftas or the Brits or various other historic irrelevances is to provide busywork for rudderless MPs. The majority of elected representatives are now so terrified of looking out of step with what they guess are the views of the 52% that they can only occupy themselves with matters of sensational unimportance.Proper entertainment: watch Tim Loughton leading the march for Andrea Leadsom in 2016Last week, Tim Loughton was at it. “Just had a great night at the Baftas,” announced the MP for East Worthing and Shoreham, “apart from the usual drivel from Ken Loach in his own la la land.” (And yet, what could be more totally la la than leading a march on Westminster, accompanied by people wearing T-shirts bearing the slogan “Leadsom 4 Leader”? Because, Tim, you did that. You led the deathless call-and-response: “What do we want?” “Leadsom for leader!” “When do we want it?” “Now!”)These days, politicians such as Tim and Alec seem to have decided that the safest public role they can play is dividing the entire world into things that are elite and not elite. Instead of saying something – anything – that matters enduringly, they are engaged in an endless taxonomy of pop routines, award speeches and celebrity tweets. As I say, they would make perfect holiday cover for Lost in Showbiz. But perhaps they were elected to be a little more than that.It is absolutely no surprise to discover that Alec is one of the leading lights in the campaign to oust House of Commons speaker John Bercow. I mean, really – is there a more elitist, Westminster bubblicious pastime than having any sort of view one way or the other about John Bercow? Do you reckon it came up a lot on the doorstep in Stoke Central? If most normal people even know who this bestockinged fellow is, they know him simply as the nameless ref in the hated weekly turnoff that is PMQs. Either way, they have far more important things to worry about than arcane points about his conduct concerning state visits. Yet on the fake Westminster outrage goes. Epoch-defining bills pass without amendment; Gary Lineker’s tweets do not.The last time I can remember MPs arguing this convincingly for their obsolescence was during the time of the expenses scandal, where the huge value of their perks threw their work as lobby fodder into highly unsympathetic relief. At this time of political turmoil – and ominous global financial uncertainty – an MP having a view about Katy Perry routines is the absolute Versailles of duck houses. It should be a preposterous luxury he is unable to afford – but of course, it’s always us that pays.