A Book of Middle Eastern Food was published in 1968, the year of my birth, yet I have only started using it in the past decade, 40 years on, when I began writing about food. I say use because this is what I do with Claudia Roden’s books. I use them. Beyond the evocative stories and buoyant style, beyond the comprehensive list of dishes and unfailing set of instructions – there is always information, hard information, meticulously collected, compellingly assembled, lovingly told. It is these reliable and interconnected facts – covering history, geography and ethnography – that draw me to all of her work. I can rely on them as references in my own writing and they never fail to inspire me to create.You would naturally think, then, that there is some sort of irony in Claudia’s assertion in the introduction to the1985 extended edition of this book, titled A New Book of Middle Eastern Food, that “this is not a scholarly book”, even perhaps a bit of false modesty. Well, not an iota of either.What makes this book in particular “not scholarly” is the fact that it is systematic only in the sense that it is personal. It starts off from Claudia’s beginnings as a young émigré from Egypt seeking to recreate something tangible and edible for her community of exiled Middle-Eastern Jews in the Europe of the 1950s by collecting all of their memories, ie recipes. It moves on by the sheer power of her obsessive curiosity with food and its transformation and her enchanted interest in people and their stories.One is never quite sure whether a recipe such as the birds’ tongues [page 45] – a simple lamb stew – is there because of its natural merits or because of a poetic scene which Claudia delicately draws of two young siblings sitting together on a Sunday morning, rolling little bits of dough in their hands to turn into tiny pasta pieces resembling birds’ tongues.The sense of the deep relatedness of food to “big” history as well as to “little” stories is precisely what is so great about Claudia’s writing and what make her into a true cosmopolitan, someone who justifiably transcends national accounts but, at the same time, conveys them so plainly and so genuinely.Personally, I am always attracted to the original book because it introduced Britons to my own cupboard staples – za’atar, tahini, preserved lemons, pomegranates – almost half a century ago. I find it informative, delectable and incredibly useful.Tabbouleh – parsley and mint salad with burghulA mountain dish that became a national dish, it is now popular throughout the world.Serves 6250-310g parsley, preferably flat-leafed, chopped60-90g fresh mint, chopped60-120g fine-ground burghulSalt and pepper to taste100ml olive oilJuice of 2 lemons, or more to taste250g spring onions or large, mild onion, choppedYoung Cos lettuce leaves, to garnish3 medium tomatoes, dicedWash the mint and parsley if necessary and dry well. Remove stems and chop (a food processor will do this well, but be careful that you do not turn them to a mush). Soak the burghul in cold water for 10 minutes, drain and press to remove excess water. Put it in a bowl and add salt and pepper and some of the lemon juice and the olive oil. Let it absorb the dressing for about ½ an hour or until it is tender. Just before serving, add the burghul to the chopped parsley, a little at a time, just enough for a speckled effect. Add the spring onions, seasonings and more dressing to taste and mix well. The salad should be distinctly sharp with lavish quantities of lemon.Serve on a large, flat plate or individual small ones, surrounded if you like by the pale crisp leaves from the heart of the Cos lettuce to be used as a scoop. (In the mountain villages of Lebanon, freshly picked, sharp young vine leaves are passed around to pick up the salad.) Top with the chopped tomatoes.Couscous with fish      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Couscous with fish. Photograph: Romas Foord for the ObserverCouscous is the national dish of the Maghreb, the North African countries of Morocco, Tunisia and Algeria.The basic process for the preparation of couscous is the steaming of the grain over a stew or broth. Chickpeas are usually added, and sometimes raisins as well. The broth is often coloured red with tomato puree or yellow with saffron. Many spices are used but so sparingly that one can hardly define each individual aroma. Often a sauce is prepared separately with some of the broth and made strong and fiery with cayenne or chilli pepper and harissa. This sauce is served beside the couscous for those who wish to be “inflamed and intoxicated”.The actual process of cooking the couscous is very simple, but calls for a subtle handling of the grain. The aim is to make it swell and become extremely light, each grain soft, delicate, velvety, and separate from its neighbour. Bad handling of the grain will result in a lumpy and rather stodgy couscous. The grain must never cook in the broth or sauce, but only in the steam. It must not even touch the broth throughout the steaming. The couscousier, the pot traditionally used, is in two parts, made from glazed earthenware or copper, and, more recently, aluminium. If you cannot get hold of an authentic couscousier, you can improvise with a double steamer or a metal sieve which fits exactly over a large pan.The treatment of the grain is always the same, whatever the sauce. Moisten the couscous slightly with a little cold water, working it in with the fingers to prevent lumps from forming. Turn it into the sieve part of the couscousier. This should be done after the stew below has already been cooking for some time and the ingredients are nearly ready. Rake the grains with your fingers to air them and help them to swell better. Do not cover the sieve. Steam over the simmering sauce for 30 minutes.Now turn the couscous into a large bowl. Sprinkle generously with cold water and stir well with a wooden spoon to break up any lumps and to separate and air the grains. Add a little salt at this point if you like. The water will make the grains swell very much. (A tablespoon of oil is sometimes added at the same time.) Return to the top container and steam for a further 30 minutes.This fish couscous is favoured by Tunisians. Any type of fish can be used, but generally red or grey mullet are preferred.Serves 6120g chickpeas, soaked overnightFish tails and heads to make a rich stock3 carrots, sliced3 turnips, quartered1 onion, quartered, or a few baby onions1 sweet green pepper, seeded, cored and slicedSalt and black pepperCayenne pepper¼ tsp saffron500-750g couscous750g-1 kg fish (see intro above)2-3 quinces, peeled, cored and slicedIn a large pan, make a rich fish soup. Boil the fish tails and heads with all the vegetables, salt, black and cayenne pepper and saffron in 1-1½ litres water. Remove the scum as it rises to the surface. Simmer for an hour until the stock is rich and the vegetables are soft.Prepare the couscous as described above. Put it in the sieve and steam it over the simmering fish stock for 30 minutes. Remove the couscous and treat it as previously described.Remove the fish tails and heads from the stock, and if you like strain through a fine sieve, then return the vegetables to the stock. Lower in the whole fish, sliced if too large. Add the sliced quinces. Return the couscous to the sieve and steam it over the simmering fish for a further 30 minutes, less if the pieces of fish are not large. Adjust the seasoning of the reduced fish stock.Serve the fish and its sauce over the couscous in a large dish, or in separate dishes. The strong-tasting quinces give this dish a very distinctive flavour.Syrian stuffed kibbeh      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Syrian stuffed kibbeh. Photograph: Romas Foord for the ObserverKibbeh is the great love of the inhabitants of the Fertile Crescent. It is the national dish of Syria and Lebanon, and Iraq boasts of dozens of koubba.I know of no other dish whose preparation is enveloped by such a mystique. Some women are known to have a special “band” or “finger” for making kibbeh. This knack is envied by other women and especially by their husbands. One is said to be favoured by the gods if one is born with a long finger, which makes the shaping of kibbeh easier.Today, one can use a very fine mincer to save some of the pounding (or an electric blender as suggested for meat ball mixtures).Syrian stuffed kibbeh is the most popular as well as the most intriguing of kibbeh. Syrian women measure their art and make their reputations by their craftsmanship and finesse when making this dish. The art lies in making the outer shells as long and thin and as even as possible.Serves 6For the kibbeh500g lamb250g burghulLarge onionCold water or ice cubesPrepare the kibbeh meat mixture using 500g lean tender lamb (leg is good) to 250g burghul. Pound the meat rhythmically and vigorously with a little salt in a stone mortar until it is smooth and pasty. Alternatively, if a mincer is available put the meat thought it several times. Grate and pound a large onion with salt and pepper or mince it a few times. Mix the onions and meat together and mince or pound again, adding 1 or 2 tablespoons cold water or 1 or 2 ice cubes to achive a soft and smooth texture.Rince the burghul in a sieve and quickly squeeze out the excess water. Add to the meat and onion mixture and knead vigorously by hand. Adjust seasoning and pound in the mortar for as long as possible, about half an hour, or mince together several times, then pound and knead again until soft and smooth. If you have a food processor blend the burghal separately and turn the meat to a paste, and then blend together.For the filling1 medium sized onion, finely chopped2 tbsp oil250g lamb, veal or beef, minced60g pine nutsSalt and pepper½ tsp ground cinnamon½ tsp allspiceA few tbsp stockButterFry the onion in hot oil until golden and soft. Add the meat and pine nuts, and continue to cook until the meat has changed colour. Add a few tablespoons of water to soften the meat, season and add the cinnamon and allspice.For the Syrian stuffed kibbeh, wet your hands with cold water. Take a small lump of the kibbeh mixture the size of an egg. Holding it in your left hand, make a hole in it with a finger of the right hand and use the left hand to pat the paste round the finger and work it into a long, slim, oval shape, pressing it up the finger, widening it and slipping it round and round. This is rather reminiscent of pottery-making. If the paste cracks, dip a finger in cold water and use it to stick the shell together again. Fill the shell with about a tablespoon of filling. Close the opening by wetting the rim with cold water and sticking the edges together. Pat and smooth into a thin end to achieve a slim, oval shape. If you find all this too difficult, make a small round or oval shape. This seems easier to achieve.Deep-fry in oil to a rich, dark brown colour. Drain. Serve hot or cold with a selection of salads. These kibbeh can be prepared ahead and fried just before serving, or fried and warmed up again in a covered dish in the oven.Smaller versions get thrown into aubergine, courgette and meat stews.These kibbeh may also be baked. Put them on a tray, brush with oil, and bake in a hot oven (230C/gas mark 8) for a few minutes, turning over once, until well browned.Hamud – chicken soup with lemon      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hamud – chicken soup with lemon. Photograph: Romas Foord for the ObserverIn the Middle East, soups are often eaten as a meal in themselves, accompanied by Arab bread or pitta for breakfast, lunch or supper. Vendors sell them in the street in the very early hours on winter mornings to catch those who want to fill themselves up before they get to work. Some soups and stews were branded as “servants’ food” by the Europeanised Egyptians, though I know many children of rich families who would sneak up to the roof terraces to share their servants’ soups and stews.An Egyptian favourite, hamud has a versatile nature. Although generally served as a sauce for rice, it often appears twice in the same meal, first as a soup, and then again as the sauce. It is basically a chicken soup with celery, strongly flavoured with lemon and garlic, but other green vegetables find their place in it when they are at hand.Serves 6Carcass and giblets of 1 chicken3-4 stalks celery with leaves, sliced2-3 cloves garlic, sliveredSalt and black pepperJuice of 1-2 lemons2-3 courgettes sliced (optional)120g rice, boiled (weight uncooked)Collect a chicken carcass, giblets and bones to make a rich stock. The giblets must be very fresh, and the bones and carcass those of a chicken prepared the same day, otherwise any meat on them will be hard and dry, and the marrow in the bones very stale. Crack the bones slightly to release more flavour.There are two ways of preparing this soup. The stock can be made beforehand and strained through a fine sieve, the vegetables then being cooked in the clear broth. However, I usually cook all the ingredients together in the following manner.Put the carcass, bones and giblets in a large pan. Add the celery and, if you like, sliced leeks. (The basic recipe is made with celery only.) Add the slivered garlic and cover with about 2 litres of water. Bring to the boil and skim the surface. Season with salt and pepper, and squeeze the juice of 1 lemon into the pan. Simmer gently for about 1 hour. Remove the pan from the heat and discard all the bones, leaving only pieces of chicken in the broth. Add the courgettes, if using them, and cook for 15 minutes longer. Adjust seasoning, adding more lemon juice if necessary. The soup should have a distinctly lemony tang. It is this and the taste of garlic which give it an Oriental flavour.Add cooked rice just before serving so as not to give it time to become sodden and mushy.Lissan al assfour – birds’ tongues      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lissan al assfour – birds’ tongues. Photograph: Romas Foord for the ObserverThis is a lamb stew made with pasta, and I am assured that it only tastes right if small Italian pastine called graniamo (which look like tiny birds’ tongues or largish grains of rice) are used. During the last war, when this Italian import was not available, families who loved the dish used to make the pasta themselves with flour and water, rolling it into the correct, tiny thin ovals between their fingers. A friend recalls spending hours with her brother every Sunday as a small child, rolling the little bits of dough.Serves 63 onions, cut in ½ and sliced4 tablespoons sunflower oil1kg lamb, such as leg or neck fillets, cubedSalt and pepper1½ teaspoons ground cinnamon400-500g graniamo pasta (or orzo)Grated parmesan (optional)In a large, heavy-bottomed pan, fry the sliced onions in the oil over low heat for 15-20 minutes, until soft and golden, starting with the lid on and stirring often.Remove the onions and put in the cubed meat, then cook, covered, over low heat for ½ an hour to 45 minutes, turning the pieces of meat over occasionally, and adding salt, pepper and cinnamon. The meat releases a great deal of liquid and at the end, the pieces should be left sizzling in oil. Stir in the fried onions, add water to cover and cook, covered, over low heat for about ½ an hour to 45 minutes or until the meat is very tender, adding water to keep it well covered.Stir in the pasta, cover with water, and cook over low heat, stirring occasionally, for a further 15-20 minutes, until the pasta is tender, adding salt and more water if necessary so you are left with a some sauce at the end. Serve with grated parmesan – an Italian influence in Egypt.Om ali      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Om ali. Photograph: Romas Foord for the ObserverThis homely Egyptian dessert has become very popular in the last 30 years. People in Cairo say it arrived from the villages of Upper Egypt; but there it is said to be from Cairo. (One theory is that it is a bread pudding introduced by a Miss O’Malley, an Irish mistress of the Khedive Ismail.) People find all sorts of ways of making it – with pancakes, with thinly rolled-out pastry and, more easily, with pieces of bread. I have found that fila pastry gives the required effect and it is healthier to bake it first rather than fry it in butter as is usual in Egypt.Serves 65-6 sheets of fila (about 90g)120g raisins or sultanas120-175g mixed flaked almonds, chopped hazlenuts and pistachios1 litre milk300ml double cream90-120g sugar1-2 teaspoons cinnamon (optional)Put the sheets of fila loosely in a slow oven (150C/gas mark 2) for about 15 minutes or until crisp and brown. Crumple into a baking dish, sprinkling raisins and nuts in between the layers.Bring the milk and cream to the boil in a saucepan with the sugar and pour over the pastry. Sprinkle with cinnamon and return to the oven. Raise the heat to 240C/gas mark 9 and bake for about 20 minutes or until the top is browned. Serve very hot.A Moroccan version has the boiling milk and cream poured on to crisp, paper-thin pastry broken small and eaten like a cereal with nuts and raisins without further baking.A Book of Middle Eastern Food by Claudia Roden is widely available secondhand. To order a copy of A New Book of Middle Eastern Food (Penguin, £25) for £21.25 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846