Paddling an inflatable boat down Walmgate in York on Monday, the rescuers called out to Pat Harrington. “You OK up there, love?” they asked, having spotted her head poking through the net curtains of a first floor flat. “I’m absolutely fine!” trilled the 74-year-old. “I’ve got power, I’m nice and warm, I’ve got plenty of food left over from Christmas. It’s like luxury camping.”Harrington had no intention of leaving the flat she has lived in for 13 years, she said, but would simply wait for the flood waters to subside. She wasn’t the only resident of Walmgate staying resolutely put, despite the street’s transformation into a slightly whiffy Venice after the river Foss flooded for the first time in living memory. From a window opposite, Geoffrey Beacon said he was taking advantage of his enforced confinement. “I’m a very messy person so I’ve been tidying up,” he shouted down.Neither resident seemed particularly enraged that their road had flooded after the Foss barrier, built at a cost of £3.3m, was opened after the electrics failed. According to the Environment Agency, the electrical controls were broken after the pumping capacity – 32,000 litres per second – was exceeded during heavy rainfall on Boxing Day. The result: the semi-submersion of several hundred properties which never normally flood when the bigger river Ouse breaks its banks (a fairly regular occurrence in York).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pat Harrington stayed in her first floor flat after flooding on Walmgate. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianBeacon blamed not the Environment Agency, but climate change – or, more accurately, the humans who cause the planet to warm. “To stop this happening, really we need to stop eating beef, driving cars and building buildings out of steel and concrete,” he bellowed from his first floor perch.Law student Georgia Bijster, 25, had only moved into her Fossgate house the Monday before Christmas. “Would you believe we moved because our last property had damp?” she said with a grim laugh, as she surveyed the warped floor of her living room, which had ballooned by several feet as the water rose through the floorboards. “When we were looking at this place, the estate agent said to us: ‘don’t worry, the Foss never floods!’”Standing at the edge of the flood waters, Leighann Walton was sanguine, despite her six-month-old Mercedes floating outside the Walmgate house where she had been spending the festive period with her son and husband. The family had to evacuate in the early hours of Sunday morning after the Foss invaded their bedrooms. “I came out just with knickers on my bottom half,” said Walton, who manages an optician’s in Doncaster. On Monday she gave rescuers her car keys and politely asked them to rummage around inside the vehicle to see if they could find her house keys or work security pass. They duly obliged.Sebastian Hyatt, the chaplain of 2 Duke of Lancaster’s regiment, one of three regiments deployed to deliver flood relief across the north of England, praised the residents of York. “The attitude of the civilians has been absolutely brilliant,” he said, beaming after hitching a lift across flooded Walmgate with the water rescuers. The 1,000 troops have witnessed some marvellous scenes, he said: “There was one lady who was stuck at the bottom on her Stannah stairlift after the electrics failed who tried to get the troops to rescue someone else before her.”Despite the overwhelming stoicism, there was also some anger in the city. Chris Wardle was one resident chosen to meet David Cameron when the prime minister donned his wellies for a flood tour on Monday. Wardle’s first floor flat has been repeatedly hit by flooding. The impact on local business was abysmal, he said, adding that the knock-on effect of the flooding was “like stepping back 100 years”.“Someone, from the prime minister to the council, really needs to sort out flood defences in the city centre. Every time there is heavy rain parts flood. Everything we see now is reactive, the cost of insurance alone will be tens if not millions of pounds; think how that could be better spent,” he said.Wardle wondered whether York would receive the same attention as the south-east. Judith Blake, leader of Leeds city council, has said people are concerned that a north-south divide exists in the approach to flood defence spending.“My perception is that if this happened in London there would be an absolute outcry,” said Wardle. “I would like to think this is going to be taken as seriously. The prime minister has said there will be a review but that’s going to take time and we need measures in the meantime to keep us safe.”Around 500 properties in York have been flooded out, according to York city council. “It’s far worse than in 2012,” said a spokeswoman. “Then we didn’t even have 100 properties affected.” At least 200 people had to be rescued by boat on Sunday and Monday, according to Ian Hugill from Scarborough and Ryedale Mountain Rescue, which was coordinating the relief effort. Mountain rescue teams had come from all over the country to help, including a team from Mytholmroyd, which was itself devastated by the weekend flooding, and others from Wales, the Lake District, Plymouth and Dartmouth.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rescue workers check on an abandoned car and residents of Walmgate, York. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianIn the city, those fortunate enough to escape the flooding offered to help. The Spread Eagle pub was giving out free tea and coffee to all rescue services and one family, the Adams, were offering to do laundry for those whose washing machines had succumbed to the flood waters. “We’re sorry your home in York has flooded. Just pop your laundry in this bag and we’ll bring it back clean and dry tomorrow,” they said on notes at Archbishop Holgate’s school, which had opened as a rescue centre. Outside the school, the Whitby scampi truck turned up to feed volunteers, and a chap from Bridlington had been dishing out free hot drinks from his van.Elsewhere in the city, there was poor mobile phone reception and no internet, which knocked out most cash machines and credit card readers. Despite being just two blocks from the Ouse, however, Betty’s tea room was doing its usual brisk business, aided by its old-fashioned insistence on sticking with swipe machines rather than chip and pin readers.