From Paisley Park to First Avenue, Minneapolis was a city deep in mourning on Thursday for its hometown hero Prince, as the surprise news of the music icon’s death inside his Paisley Park home slowly set in.Outside First Avenue, a historic downtown Minneapolis club where much of the film Purple Rain was famously filmed, thousands of fans congregated around the venue to try to gain entry into an all-night dance party, the ultimate farewell to their beloved Prince.Prince broke all the rules about what black American men should be Bob Mould, Paul Westerberg and Bob Dylan may have been products of Minnesota. But Prince was “truly Minnesota’s favorite son”, said Francine Verskotzi, dressed in a golden jacket.“He is our hometown hero on so many levels,” she said, following an evening block party outside the club, which secured a special permit to host the dance party until the early hours of Friday so fans could celebrate the life of a diminutive figure who towered over the music industry for decades. Verskotzi’s husband, Joey, said that as a musician, Prince was important to him because he “never put out the same thing”. He said his answer to the age-old question of whose records you’d want to listen to on a desert island was simple: Prince.Prince “put Minneapolis on the map”, Verskotzi said.“As far as music goes, I mean, music has always been happening here, but he legitimized it, if you will, and music continues on because of it,” she said. “He’s like our favorite son.”She added: “This is somebody that we love. His music lives on. It’s a legacy, and we’re here for that reason.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Guests dance to Prince music as a slideshow flashes images of the artist above the stage during a memorial dance party at the First Avenue nightclub. Photograph: Scott Olson/Getty ImagesStanding nearby, Cornelius Williams appreciated simply being around others who were reeling from the aftershocks of Prince’s death.“I’ve been listening to Prince since 1978,” he said. “And I love all the music, it’s inspirational.” Williams first heard Prince when he was 12, and his death has shook him in a way comparable to only a few previous incidents.“I’ll put it to you like this: I’m 6-foot-4, 280 pounds,” he said. “And it hurt me to hear that Prince fucking passed away.”He added: “It just broke me down. The only time I ever cried is when one of my brothers died, and when my grandmother died. And today I cried at least three or four times.”Prince: a shy, nonconformist, unknowable talent | Alexis Petridis Inside First Avenue, the mood was electric, as the roughly 1,500 fans fortunate to make it inside the ultimate Prince farewell party danced the night away, appreciating the special permit secured by the club, which allowed it to stay open until 6 or 7am on Friday.Juan Garcia and Elspeth Lucas, roommates who live in nearby Columbia Heights, drove into Minneapolis for the outdoor block party. The pair managed to make it inside before First Avenue hit capacity.“Prince is one of the greatest musicians ever,” Garcia said along the second floor wall, while the music blared around him. “He’s talented at everything – a phenomenal guitarist. He plays everything to his best, and he just makes such a difference in people’s lives. And the way he touched me, when I was younger (I heard) Purple Rain … it was amazing.”The diverse room buzzed as DJs played classic Prince songs, spliced with tracks by artists the legend wrote songs for. Shortly after midnight Friday, partygoers belted Purple Rain together, a notably moving moment amid a sullen day. Moments later, the video of Nothing Compares to You, performed by Sinead O’Connor – and written by Prince – appeared and again prompted the room to croon along. Couples slow-danced and kissed, while others waved cigarette lighters about.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Joey and Francine Verskotzi at First Avenue in Minneapolis, to commemorate the death of Prince, ‘truly Minnesota’s favorite son’. Photograph: Ryan Felton for the GuardianLucas recalled memories as a five-year-old dancing around her living room to When Doves Cry.“I grew up with his music,” she said.Soon after, the medley of slower-paced tunes ended, and the DJ segued into the uptempo Little Red Corvette, while the room returned to dancing into the early hours of the morning. ‘It was one of the coolest things of my life’Prince was found collapsed in an elevator at his house, located outside Minneapolis, on Thursday morning and was pronounced dead at around 10am. Throughout the day, local radio stations had highlighted the vast capabilities of the venerable 57-year-old throughout his broad catalog, featuring diverse cuts of R&B, funk, pop and rock.A postmortem examination of his body is scheduled for Friday, but fans of the beloved superstar took to Minneapolis’s streets as soon as news of his death broke. Gus Sorenson visited Paisley Park twice on Thursday, and brought his mother along during the second stop. Paisley was a place he previously frequented to watch Prince play intimate shows in front of a small, club-size crowd. He watched Prince perform last May in front of about 500 people.“We got here at 9 o’clock at night and waited until 2am, and he finally came out,” Sorenson said. “It was one of the coolest things in my life.” A particular line from Prince that night stuck with him, something the superstar uttered in the wake of a spate of terrorists attacks: “We should love each other.” He helped bring attention to this city’s music, and more people have been affected by this than we could countLowell Pickett, owner, Dakota jazz club As a sea of news trucks hummed along Audubon road, outside the compound, Sorenson added: “I just kind of felt like I needed to come back and pay my respects.” He regretted not taking the chance to attend a recent dance party at Paisley only last Saturday, where Prince made a brief appearance. Still, he feels fortunate, having had the opportunity to witness a small show with Prince, unlike what most fans of the legend have ever experienced.“I’m so glad I did that,” he said. Later in the evening, a half-hour drive away, a quiet memorial of sorts unfolded at the Dakota jazz club in downtown Minneapolis, a place Prince frequented once a month, according to the venue’s owner. He had a private table on Dakota’s second floor that would often be cordoned off by a curtain upon his party’s arrival.On Thursday, a small purple flower was placed on his table - #299 - in front of a placard that plainly read: “Rest in peace, Prince.” Soft purple lights shined across the stage before the club’s main act began their set Thursday night.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Prince remembered by fans across America.The typically shy hometown hero of Minneapolis was at Dakota, where he had previously played a four-night stand, as recently as Tuesday. “He was an international musical treasure whose combined talents only come along in many years,” Dakota owner Lowell Pickett told the Guardian. “He was a masterful songwriter, a virtuosic multi-instrumentalist, a brilliant producer, a perfectionist as an engineer, and a talent scout whose vision enveloped masters who preceded him as well as young artists.”Pickett said Prince meant “so much” to Minneapolis - “more than words can ever express”. Prince, he said, particularly helped the Dakota in a way “we can never repay”: in January 2013, when he sought to do several shows at the club, and in becoming a “gracious guest” over the years.“He stayed here,” he said. “And in doing so, he helped bring attention to this city’s music and its musicians, and more people have been affected by this than we could count.”