Linda Woolverton, screenwriterDisney hired me to write a Winnie the Pooh spec that was never made. But chairman Jeffrey Katzenberg read it, and asked me to start working on Beauty and the Beast. There had been two previous unsuccessful attempts to adapt it, in the 1930s and 50s; my first draft wasn’t a musical, was visually darker, and there were no talking objects. The Little Mermaid changed everything. Musicals had fallen out of fashion, but Disney animation had been in a slump in the 1980s and needed something different. I flew to Florida to meet with [lyricist] Howard Ashman, and we hit it off instantly. I had seen the Jean Cocteau version in college, and knew animate objects were part of it, but our reason for introducing Lumière and Cogsworth, the talking candlestick and clock, was because Howard said, “Who’s going to sing my songs?”I deliberately set out to create a Disney heroine who was about more than her looks or how nicely she could behave when terrible things were happening to her. I came out of the 60s and I was a feminist; I didn’t think women would accept a heroine who was going to sit around and wait for the prince to come and save her. The opening scene with her reading the books as she walks through town was what I did as a kid: when my mother sent me to the store, I kept reading all the way there and back.  One scene came back, and instead of putting pins in a map, Belle was baking a cake Disney animation was an old boys’ network at the time, though, and I met with a lot of resistance. I wrote a scene in which Belle puts pins in a map while she’s waiting for her father to come back – because she wants to travel to interesting places. But when the storyboards came back, she wasn’t putting pins in a map, she was baking a cake. They didn’t want a woman around – that’s the truth. If I hadn’t had Jeffrey’s backing, I would’ve been kicked to the kerb.I won some battles, I lost some. The final scenes were rushed to meet the release deadline and some of the later animation doesn’t look so great – they had to borrow some frames from Sleeping Beauty. But in the end I was very happy. It became the first animated feature to get a best-picture nomination at the Oscars, and it enabled the whole concept of the Disney heroine to be broken open. There’s been a lot of talk about Stockholm syndrome with the Beast, but it isn’t. Belle changes him.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lumière, Cogsworth, Chip, Mrs Potts and Featherduster, plus Belle and the Beast in the background, 1991. Photograph: AlamyAlan Menken, composer My songwriting partner Howard Ashman and I had done The Little Mermaid, and Disney asked if we’d like to do Beauty and the Beast – it was as simple as that. But what I didn’t know when we started was that Howard’s days were numbered. He had been diagnosed with Aids. This would be the last project he was ever going to work on. Before he told me about the illness, there were incidents I didn’t understand. Once, when the mic on his $600 Walkman Pro stopped working, he took it and smashed it against a wall. Then he glowered at me: “Don’t touch it.” I was getting mentally beaten up, but it was self-flagellation by Howard as much as anything else. I eventually found out about his illness just after we won the Oscars for The Little Mermaid. No one else was to know – it was a death sentence, and people wouldn’t want to be in the room with him. So there were difficulties. A musical director would set up a rehearsal on the fifth floor – I’d look down and there would be Howard struggling to get up the five flights. This was a young man in his 30s. Beauty and the beat: why we're still being swept off our feet by the musical There were some preliminary sketches, ideas and structures, but Howard and I set the tone of the movie. We adapted the original French fairytale pretty liberally – the creation of enchanted objects opened up the opportunity for songs such as Be Our Guest, while Gaston and his hangers-on allowed for the big tavern number. Howard referred to Gaston as “rough trade”, and there were winks to that sexuality throughout: “I’ll tell you whose team he prefers to be on”, “I use antlers in all my decorating”... And yet it’s also classic old Walt, this Bavarian-style village right out of Snow White.Often the job of the music is to be clear and concise and get out of the way of the lyrics. Be Our Guest, for example: I made this classic Thank Heaven for Little Girls kind of thing – a stock French piece of music – and said to Howard: ‘Look, I know it’s dumb, come back with a lyric.’ He then let the lyrics just explode off it.By a certain point, he wasn’t well enough to travel. Once Disney knew, they brought a lot of the production over to the east coast; he made it through all the last recording sessions. For Something There, Paige O’Hara was singing the line: “New, and a bit alarming.” By now Howard was nearly blind and could barely talk. But he said in this hoarse whisper, over the phone from his bed: “Tell Paige, when she gets to ‘alarming’: Streisand!” Next came all the scoring sessions, and pre-production for the animation, but by then he was gone.• The live-action remake of Beauty and the Beast is in cinemas now.