As recently as 10 years ago, the artist Phyllida Barlow was not selling work and no gallery was collecting it. In the past it was normal for her to leave a sculpture in the street and see what happened, or to break into a disused factory to install something nobody would see.She was not represented by a commercial gallery, and her artworks – made from throwaway materials such as plywood, tinfoil, polystyrene and cardboard – were known to few people outside a narrow segment of the art world. This week, however, her work can be seen at the gleaming galleries of Hauser & Wirth on London’s Savile Row and at Tate Modern, where it is on display in a dedicated room.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An untitled Phyllida Barlow work on display at Tate Modern. Photograph: Joe Humphrys/Tate PhotographyIn recent months she has been awarded a CBE, chosen as Britain’s representative at the 2017 Venice Biennale and shortlisted for a major sculpture prize. In October she will exhibit new work in the vast space of Zurich’s Kunsthalle.To say that the 72-year-old is a latecomer to international art stardom is something of an understatement. “I’ll probably keel over and drop dead in front of you now,” she laughs.Tate Modern’s recently appointed director, Frances Morris, compares Barlow to Louise Bourgeois, an artist who also found fame late in life. “Many great women artists have suffered from the shadow effect, they have been out of public view until their 60s and 70s,” she said. “How great that we have discovered [Barlow] now.”Being chosen for Venice was a particular surprise, Barlow told the Guardian in her first interview since the announcement.“It is really exciting and extraordinary to be asked to do it … just astonishing. It’s strange for artists like myself, and there are a lot of us around, who have done adventurous things on our own steam, taken works to remote places and not known there would be an audience and not worried about it. Now to be offered these places is extraordinary.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Phyllida Barlow’s ‘untitled: brokenshelf’ on display at Hauser & Wirth Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianBarlow has been an art teacher since the 1960s, gradually making her way up the greasy academic pole to become professor of fine art and director of undergraduate studies at Slade.“Becoming a teacher was the ideal way of having freedom to be an artist, have a studio and make what you wanted without the obligation or pressure to show,” she said. “The only commitment was to be an artist.”She was far from the only person of her generation to balance the job security of teaching with the insecurity of being a working artist.It clearly had its upsides, but she wonders whether the security also generated complacency. “I do think my generation had left the door wide open for a more driven generation … although I was always highly driven.“It took the Damien Hirst generation to really pounce on the issues of how you functioned as an artist, how you could function in an economic way. Whether people like that or not is another matter.”She retired from teaching in 2009 and worries that art schools place too much emphasis on teaching students a “model” of how to be an artist, pointing to professional practice courses on offer. “What does that mean? It seems to me incredibly mechanical and suggests that the oddball or somebody who is capable of writing Infinite Jest [David Foster Wallace’s monumental rule-changing 1996 novel] wouldn’t even get off the starting blocks.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Phyllida Barlow’s GIG, on display at Hauser & Wirth in Bruton, Somerset. Photograph: Matt Cardy/Getty ImagesBarlow is very much a Londoner although she was born in Newcastle in 1944 because her psychiatrist father, a great-grandson of Charles Darwin, had moved there to work on a medical project examining brain trauma.He returned to London after the second world war, however, and she was brought up in the capital. She studied art at Chelsea from 1960 to 1963, where she met her husband, Fabian Peake, the son of the Gormenghast author Mervyn Peake.She later studied at Slade where her teachers included the sculptor Reg Butler, who charmlessly told her they would not be having many discussions about her work because when she was 30 she would be having children or making jam.“The Slade preened itself with its effete masculinity and with that came an iron fist in a velvet glove approach,” she said.Barlow became a teacher herself in the late 1960s, when art schools were desperate for young artists on their staff. Over the years her pupils have included Rachel Whiteread, Tacita Dean, Martin Creed and Douglas Gordon. An impressive roster, but one Barlow insists is no more than a “convenient tagline”.“Martin Creed always says I am the best teacher who never taught him,” she said. “My energy as a teacher was to be very interested in why students would find it incredibly difficult, how the environment was an anaesthetic, how it would paralyse them … that was something I knew about.”She is also a mother of five, four of whom have become artists themselves. One of them, Eddie Peake, is one of the UK’s hottest young artists.In the gaps between teaching and raising her family, she concentrated on her art. “Ever since we had children we have been incredibly disciplined,” she said, “that determination to use every scrap of time becomes ingrained, you don’t ever lose it.”Clearly she did not become an artist to sell work. “It’s not that I didn’t want to sell work, it just didn’t occur to me that I was in a position to sell work. I didn’t know how you found people to sell your work to. Instead of getting the paraphernalia to do that, I just wanted to get on and make the work.”Just as remarkably, much of the work she made during her career no longer exists because she either recycled it or left it where it had been on display. In the 1980s she remembers leaving art works on the streets of London, on a grit bin in King’s Cross for example.Generally, the 1980s were a tense time. “Money just didn’t seem to exist,” she said.Barlow’s breakthrough show came at the Serpentine in 2010, after which followed representation with Hauser & Wirth.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Phyllida Barlow’s breakthrough came with her 2010 show at the Serpentine. Photograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianShe came on to many more people’s radar when she filled Tate Britain’s huge Duveen galleries with her monumental work Dock, a breathtakingly ramshackle installation of wooden scaffolding, polystyrene, pallets and rope. “It seemed like an extraordinary indulgence to be allowed to play with the space in that way. I know some people thought it was disrespectful … it wasn’t, it was incredibly respectful.The Guardian’s Adrian Searle called it a summation of Barlow’s work to date. “There’s a word for this: Wow,” he wrote.Barlow said she was never intimidated by the space, nor was she intimidated by the Kunsthalle in Zurich or Venice next year.She is one of four artists shortlisted for the inaugural Hepworth prize, a biennial £30,000 award recognising a British sculptor’s body of work, and her work will be on display at the Hepworth Wakefield from October.Barlow clearly has a lot on her plate, but she is determined too to make work on a whim. “We live in such an exhibition-dominated visual arts culture that that aspect of being an artist seems unrecognised now … a lot of work is produced without destination in mind, a lot of really great work.“Now that I am showing I like the combination of the two. I need things that can deal with my impatience.”Barlow, who has five studio assistants and a warehouse-like studio in north London, makes work that will annoy some people. It is, after all, stuff made from stuff. Other people find it beautiful, although she says her works don’t aspire to be so.“Maybe I don’t think enough about beauty in my work because I’m so curious about other qualities, abstract qualities of time, weight, balance, rhythm; collapse and fatigue versus the more upright dynamic notions of maybe posture … the state that something might be in. Is it growing or shrinking, is it going up or down, is it folding or unfolding?”Barlow became a Royal Academician in 2011 and was awarded a CBE last December, making her something of an outsider who has become an insider. She has become part of the system although “emotionally and in my head” she was not, she said.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Phyllida Barlow holds her medal after being appointed a CBE at her investiture ceremony at Buckingham Palace Photograph: John Stillwell/AFP/Getty Images“All I can say is I don’t know how younger artists manage it. I think it is absolutely extraordinary what they do with this world.“For me, there’s something very remarkable about it, the support seems quite phenomenal. A lot of the things I’m doing, moving work, meeting deadlines, finishing it, taking it places … they were all things I would have to do under my own steam or on extraordinarily limited budgets. There is a lot of support for all the practical things.”Not that she would have her late success any other way. “It is an enormously good thing and I won’t hear a word against it from the point of view of where I am in my life. It is enabling me to make work in a way I never thought in my wildest dreams I would be able to.“The way it has supported ambition for the work and allowed it to be seen is incredible and in some ways shocking … an almost out-of-body experience that this can happen.”