Last-minute grilled salad: Neil RankinBecause barbecues aren’t only for big slabs of meat or fish. To make the puffed rice, just deep-fry raw wild rice for a few seconds in 180C oil, then drain. Serves six to eight.2 fennel bulbs, one left whole, the other thinly sliced3 courgettes, thickly sliced lengthways2 tropea (or red) onions, cut in half lengthways but unpeeled3 spring onions, trimmed1 leek4 stalks white, purple or green sprouting broccoli3 spears asparagus 1 globe artichoke, trimmed and quartered lengthways1 small bunch dandelion leaves1 romaine lettuce, cut in half lengthways through the coreFor the dressingOlive oil, to tasteLemon juice, to tasteSea salt flakes4 tbsp chopped flat-leaf parsley1 handful chives, cut into 2.5cm lengths2 tbsp puffed wild rice (see introduction)1 tbsp garlic slices, fried until crispCouple of grates of parmesan Cook the whole fennel bulb in the hot coals for 10 minutes, until blackened, then peel off the charred outer layer.Lay the fennel and courgette slices, the onion halves, spring onions, leek, broccoli, asparagus and artichoke quarters on the grill of the barbecue. Cook, turning as needed, until tender and charred. Remove from the grill as they are cooked, but leave the leek until it is blackened all over, then peel off the outer layer. Roughly chop all the veg, including the fennel bulb.Grill the dandelion leaves for a few seconds; grill the lettuce halves on one side only, until almost black.Combine all the vegetables on a platter. Dress with oil, lemon juice and salt to taste, sprinkle with the herbs, puffed rice, crisp garlic and parmesan, and serve.Low And Slow, by Neil Rankin, is published by Ebury Press at £25. To order a copy for £20, go to bookshop.theguardian.com.What to drink I’d be inclined to opt for a gutsy rosé such as the full-flavoured Domaine des Tourelles Rosé 2015 (13% abv), from Lebanon, which is currently on offer at D Byrne of Clitheroe for £8.39. Fiona BeckettLamb neck, baked pitta, figs, feta, tomato, cucumber, mint and kalamata olives: Peter GordonI use lamb neck fillet for this warm salad, but loin, leg steaks or even leftover roast leg will work. Black olives work better than green ones here. Serves six as a main course.900g lamb neck fillet, trimmed of excess fat and sinewSea salt and freshly ground black pepper4 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil3-4 pitta breads (depending on size), torn into pieces2 tbsp red-wine vinegar150g kalamata (or other black) olives4 tomatoes2 small cucumbers, peeled and sliced30 mint leaves, torn200g feta, roughly crumbled½ tsp dried oregano6 figs1 juicy lemon, cut into six wedgesHeat the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4. Put a roasting dish on the hob on a medium heat. Season the lamb, brush with a teaspoon of oil, then brown well on all sides. Remove the lamb and add the pitta to the dish, tossing it around to coat it in the fat. Sit the lamb on the bread and transfer to the oven until the lamb is cooked: lamb neck can be a little fatty, so it’s best to cook it medium for this; neck fillets will take about 10 minutes. Lift the meat on to another dish, leave to rest in a warm place for 10 minutes, then slice and put it on a plate; reserve the cooking juices.Drizzle the vinegar over the pitta in the oven dish, add the olives and half the remaining oil, and toss. Return the bread to the oven until crisp – about eight to 10 minutes.While the bread is baking, cut the tomatoes in half crossways, then gently squeeze out and discard the seeds. Cut the flesh into chunks and mix with the cucumber, mint, feta, oregano and remaining oil.Remove the stems from the figs (and peel them, if you prefer), then thickly slice and add to the tomato salad. Toss everything together and season lightly with salt (the feta is already salty) and a quarter-teaspoon of coarsely ground black pepper.To serve, pile the salad on top of the crisp pitta. Lay the lamb on top, drizzle over the cooking juices and serve with lemon wedges.Peter Gordon is chef/owner of Providores and Tapa Room, London W1. His latest book, Savour, is published by Jacqui Small at £25. To order a copy for £20, go to bookshop.theguardian.com.What to drink Any bright, juicy red would be great with this, and the Wine Society’s Montepulciano d’Abruzzo Vigna Corvino 2015 is a bargain at £6.95 (or £3.95 a half-bottle; 13% abv). FBBuckwheat and smashed herb salad: Olia HerculesThis also works without the runners, or use thinly sliced sticks of kohlrabi instead. Serves four.200g raw buckwheat (or ready toasted)50g radishes200g tender runner beans 20g coriander, leaves and stalks20g basil, leaves and stalks10g tarragon, leaves only1 garlic clove, peeled and chopped2 tbsp cider vinegar1 tsp honeySea salt flakes2 tbsp mild olive oil or rapeseed oil1 handful fresh mint leavesIf you’re using raw buckwheat, toast it until it turns golden, to draw out that beautiful nutty flavour: you can do this in a dry frying pan or in the oven at 180C/350F/gas mark 4. Just keep shaking the pan or roasting tray, so it colours evenly.If your radishes have leaves on, and they look fresh, do not get rid of them: they are delicious, so add the leaves to the salad. Cut the radishes themselves in half lengthways.If your runner beans are very fresh, you can use them raw and chop them into thin pieces as they are; otherwise, quickly blanch in boiling water, drain and refresh first.Cook the buckwheat in 400ml boiling salted water for about 20 minutes, until tender but still al dente and the water is absorbed.For the dressing, use a pestle and mortar or a food processor. Pound or blitz the herbs, garlic, vinegar, honey and a teaspoon of sea salt, then slowly feed in the oil. Add more oil if it’s not quite coming together – you want a homogeneous dressing. Don’t worry about “bruising” the herbs: that’s what they do in Georgia, and it works a treat. Adjust the seasoning to taste: it should be really well seasoned, mostly sour, salty and a tiny bit sweet.When the buckwheat is ready, drain it if it hasn’t absorbed all the water, then leave to cool a little. In a serving bowl, mix the buckwheat, beans, radishes and dressing, scatter over the mint leaves and serve.Olia Hercules is a cook and food writer. Her book Mamushka is published by Mitchell Beazley at £25. To order a copy for £20, go to bookshop.theguardian.com.What to drink This is a candidate for a zippy white such as an albariño or the stellar Argyros Assyrtiko 2014 (£16.50 Huntsworth Wine Company; 13.2% abv), from Santorini. FBStuffed conchiglioni on basil leaves: Eleonora GalassoEat this warm or cold; any leftover sauce makes a magnificent sandwich filling. Serves four as a main course.5 baby plum tomatoes1 avocado1 tbsp salted capers, rinsed6 tbsp extra virgin olive oil3 anchovy fillets in olive oil350g tinned tuna in spring water, drained100g pitted black olives, very finely chopped1 celery stick, trimmed and very finely chopped1 red onion, peeled and very finely chopped1 large handful basil leaves, chopped, plus extra whole leaves to garnish2 small handfuls sage leaves, choppedSalt and white pepper400g conchiglioni pasta1 garlic clove, peeled1 large handful flat-leaf parsley leaves2 tbsp breadcrumbs1 tbsp dried oreganoPut the tomatoes in a bowl and pour over boiling water to cover. Leave for a minute or two, drain, then cut a cross at the stem end of each tomato and peel. Cut the flesh into 5mm cubes.Halve the avocado, discard the stone and scoop out the flesh with a spoon, then cut into 5mm cubes. Finely chop half the capers. Heat a tablespoon of oil and fry the anchovy fillets in a large pan on a medium heat. Add the tuna, breaking up any large chunks, and cook, stirring, for five minutes. Stir in the tomatoes, avocado, chopped capers, olives, celery, onion, basil, sage and three more tablespoons of oil. Season with a pinch of white pepper and take off the heat.Bring a large saucepan of salted water to a boil, add the conchiglioni and cook until al dente. Drain and pass it quickly under cold water, to prevent it cooking further.In a large pan, gently brown the garlic with the remaining oil, then remove from the pan and add the pasta, tossing it around to coat in the garlic-scented oil.Spoon the sauce into the pasta shells. Lay a bed of basil leaves on a large dish, arrange the conchiglioni on top, and finish with a scattering of chopped parsley, breadcrumbs, oregano and the whole capers.Eleonora Galasso is a food writer based in Rome and Paris. Her book, As The Romans Do, is published by Octopus at £25. To order a copy for £20, go to bookshop.theguardian.com.What to drink It would be perverse not to drink an Italian white with this. Many would work, but try the smooth, creamy La Battistina Gavi 2015 (£8.59 Rannoch Scott, £8.75 Stone, Vine & Sun; 12% abv). FBKohlrabi, apple and celery salad with capers and tarragon: Angela HartnettMy boyfriend Neil Borthwick, who is head chef at Merchants Tavern in Shoreditch, used to work with Michel Bras, the godfather of modern vegetable cookery. Neil has taught me all sorts of new ways with veg, including this crunchy salad, which is one of our favourites. We like it on its own with good crusty rye bread, but it also works as a side dish with fried pork, especially if it’s breaded. Serves six to eight as a first course.2 kohlrabi, peeled, cut in half and very finely sliced (you want the slices to be almost translucent, so use a mandoline if you have one)1 granny smith apple, quartered, cored and sliced very thin2 sticks celery, sliced very thinlySea salt, to taste1 lemon, juiced and zestedExtra-virgin olive oil 4 stalks fresh tarragon, leaves picked, washed and dried5g lilliput capers (or other baby capers), drained Put the kohlrabi, apple and celery in a large stainless-steel bowl, season with salt, the lemon zest and a tablespoon of olive oil. Add half the lemon juice, and check for seasoning. You can make the salad up to this point ahead of time, before you have a bottle of prosecco as an aperitif; but it doesn’t really benefit from being left to sit for too long, so it’s best if you don’t open a second bottle.Arrange the salad attractively on a large platter, scatter over the tarragon leaves and capers, and grind over a few turns of black pepper.Angela Hartnett is chef/patron of Murano and Caffe Murano in London.What to drink You want a clean-as-a-whistle white with this fresh-tasting salad: the Morgadia de Torre Alvarinho 2015 Vinho Verde (£11.99, or £9.99 on Majestic’s mix-six deal; 12.5% abv) would be spot on.Hispi cabbage, cashew and apricot with sesame and lime dressing: Gary UsherLovely as a stand-alone, but also a great side for barbecued oily fish such as sardines or mackerel. The recipe is from Richard Sharples, who is going to be head chef at our new restaurant in Manchester, when it opens later this year. Serves six to eight as a side dish.For the dressing1 stick lemongrass3 limes3 tbsp maple syrup2 tsp dark soy sauce2 tbsp sesame oilFor the cashews200g cashew nuts1 tbsp sunflower oil1 tsp sea saltFor the salad6 ripe apricots1 small bunch coriander1 small bunch mint3 red chillies (or to taste)2 large hispi cabbage (dark outer leaves removed)Sea saltHeat the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4. Dress the cashew nuts with the sunflower oil and sea salt, roast for eight minutes, then leave to cool.For the dressing, peel off and discard the tough outer layers of the lemongrass and chop the rest as finely as possible. In a bowl, whisk with the other dressing ingredients.Stone the apricots and cut each one into eighths. Tear the coriander and mint leaves off their stalks. Deseed and finely slice the red chillies. Separate the cabbage leaves and shred into roughly 0.5cm-thick strips (speed things up by stacking five or so leaves on top of each other, then cut widthways).Put the cabbage in a large bowl and add a few pinches of sea salt. Toss and leave for five minutes (the salt both seasons the salad and softens it, by drawing out water).To serve, mix everything together on a platter and take to the table.Gary Usher is chef/owner of Sticky Walnut in Chester and Burnt Truffle in Wirral; his third restaurant, Hispi, opens in Manchester later this year.What to drink Riesling is ideal with Asian-inspired dressings, so try the delicious Brundlmeyer Riesling von den Terrassen 2015 (12.5% abv), from Austria, which is just hitting the Oddbins shelves at £13.50. FBFennel and apple chaat with caramelised almonds: Meera SodhaThis crisp, clean bunch of ingredients, mixed with warming sweet spices, works together as tightly as James Brown’s rhythm section. Serves four as a side dish.1 tsp fennel seeds5 tbsp rapeseed oil100g flaked almonds1 tsp ground ginger2 tbsp honey1 lemon, plus 2 tbsp lemon juice2 medium fennel bulbs 3 braeburn apples½ cucumber10g fresh mint leaves, finely chopped1¼ teaspoons garam masalaBash the fennel seeds in a mortar until coarsely ground. Heat a couple of tablespoons of oil in a frying pan on a medium flame, stir-fry the almonds for a couple of minutes, until they turn pale gold, then add the ground fennel, ginger, honey and a third of a teaspoon of salt. Stir-fry for a minute, until caramelised, then tip out on to a plate and leave to cool.To make the salad, fill a big bowl with cold water. Cut the lemon in half, squeeze the juice into the water, then chuck in the lemon halves; this will stop the fennel and apple discolouring. Very finely slice the fennel (use a mandoline, if you have one) and put it into the lemony water. Slice the apples equally thinly and add them to the bowl. Cut the cucumber in half lengthways, scoop out the seeds with a teaspoon, then slice thinly and put to one side.Drain the fennel and apple, getting rid of as much water as possible and discarding the lemon halves, and put in a serving bowl with the cucumber and mint.For the dressing, mix three tablespoons of oil with the lemon juice, garam masala and half a teaspoon of salt. Crumble the caramelised almonds into the salad bowl, and pour over the dressing just before serving. Gently toss with your hands and serve.Meera Sodha’s latest book, Fresh India, is published this week by Fig Tree at £20. To order a copy for £16, go to bookshop.theguardian.com.What to drink Ever thought of matching cider with chaat? It goes really well, especially with this appley one. Try Orchard Pig’s refreshing Reveller (£2 for 500ml at Sainsbury’s or £21 for 12 bottles at selected Majestics; 4.5% abv). FBCrab and tomato salad with horseradish dressing: Nathan OutlawA perfect, simple salad for a summer’s day, when tomatoes are plentiful, juicy and sweet. I always cook my own crab, but if you use a picked one, you can assemble the dish in next to no time. The horseradish adds a refreshing kick and really brings the dish alive. Serves four as a starter.About 300g white crabmeat (if cooking your own crab, you’ll need a 1.5kg one)12 ripe tomatoes (the best you can get)1 shallot, peeled and finely chopped100ml olive oil50ml white-wine vinegar1 tsp caster sugar3 tsp chopped parsleySea salt and freshly ground black pepperFor the horseradish dressing150ml soured cream2 tbsp creamed horseradishFreshly grated zest and juice of 1 lemon100g brown crabmeatTo garnishZest of 1 lemon (microplaned, ideally)2 tbsp flat-leaf parsley leaves, slicedBring a large pan of water to a boil. Core the tomatoes and score a cross in the skin at the top of each one. Blanch the tomatoes in the boiling water for 20 seconds, then remove with a slotted spoon and transfer to a tray. When cool enough to handle, peel, then cut half the tomatoes into £1 coin-thick slices and the rest into wedges. Put all the tomatoes in a bowl and add the shallot, oil, vinegar, sugar and chopped parsley. Toss gently and season to taste.Check the white crabmeat for fragments of shell or cartilage, then put it in a bowl and season to taste.Whisk the dressing ingredients until smooth, and season to taste.To serve, divide the tomato salad between four plates. Share the white crabmeat evenly between them, and drizzle the dressing on top. Finish with a sprinkling of lemon and shredded parsley, and serve.Nathan Outlaw is chef/patron of Restaurant Nathan Outlaw in Port Isaac, Cornwall, and Outlaw’s at the Capital, London SW3. His most recent book, Everyday Seafood, is published by Quadrille at £20. To order a copy for £16, go to bookshop.theguardian.com.What to drink I’d normally go for a sauvignon or riesling with crab, but this rich, creamy dressing suggests a smoother white. An own-brand chablis such as Sainsbury’s Taste the Difference Chablis 2015 (£10; 12.5% abv) is a reliable go-to. FBSalade glacée: Alexis GauthierThis super-refreshing salad isn’t one for the start of a meal, but the end. It’s the essence of Provençal summer. You need to make the granité a day ahead, but otherwise it’s very, very easy. Serves four.1 charentais melon (or similar), peeled, cut in half and balled out into 20mm balls200g cherry tomatoes, washed and cut in half100ml extra-virgin olive oil4 tsp balsamic vinegar (an aged one, if possible)Salt and black pepper20 large mint leaves, washed and dried200g wild rocket, washed and driedLemon juice and slicesFor the granité500ml water150g caster sugar5 sprigs fresh mintMake the granité a day ahead. Put the water and sugar in a saucepan, bring to a simmer and stir until the sugar has dissolved and you are left with a syrup. Turn off the heat, add the mint sprigs and leave to infuse until cold. Remove and discard the mint sprigs, then pour the syrup into a large, shallow tray and freeze. After half an hour, use a fork to break up the ice crystals, and repeat every half-hour, until the mixture has a texture a bit like rough snow (this should take two and a half to three hours), then freeze overnight.At least an hour before you want to serve, put the melon balls on a plate and refrigerate. Meanwhile, in a large bowl, gently toss the halved cherry tomatoes in half the oil and the balsamic vinegar, and season. Add half the mint leaves, roughly chopped, stir gently and set aside to marinate.Ideally, serve your salade glacée on a large platter – it will look more impressive that way. Arrange the melon balls evenly around the plate, then place the halved tomatoes in between them. Dress the rocket with the remaining oil, season, and place here and there around the tomatoes and melon. Sprinkle some granité evenly across the salad, like a light dusting of snow (keep the leftovers for the next sunny day, if we get one), and finish with a few drops of lemon juice; set aside a few slices of lemon for serving, so guests can squeeze on more, if they like. Crack more pepper over the lot, shred the remaining mint leaves and scatter on top, and serve at once, otherwise the granité will start to melt.Alexis Gauthier is chef/patron of Gauthier Soho, London W1.What to drink Alexis suggests serving this at the end of a meal, so I’m going to go out on a limb and suggest an ice-cold sweet wine such as Seifried Sweet Agnes Riesling 2015 (£13.99 a half-bottle Waitrose; 10.5% abv), from Nelson in New Zealand. FBAubergine kisir: Jane BaxterThis traditional Turkish dish is usually served as part of a meze. Red pepper paste is sold in jars in Middle Eastern food shops, but you can make your own by blitzing peeled roasted red peppers with garlic, chilli and olive oil; alternatively, use a teaspoon of harissa instead. Serves four.250g bulgur wheat1 red onion, peeled and finely chopped1 pinch ground cumin1 tbsp red pepper paste1 tsp tomato puree½ tsp salt2 tbsp olive oil1 tbsp pomegranate molasses2 tbsp lemon juice4 spring onions, trimmed and chopped4 tomatoes, skinned and chopped½ cucumber, peeled, deseeded and chopped2 tbsp chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley1 aubergine, sliced100g watercress (optional)Salt and freshly ground black pepperFor the dressing200ml plain yoghurt2 tbsp tahini1 clove garlic, peeled and crushed2 tbsp lemon juice2 tbsp chopped fresh mintMix the bulgur wheat with the onion, cumin, pepper paste, tomato puree, salt and a tablespoon of olive oil. Stir to combine, pour over 200ml boiling water, stir again once and cover with clingfilm. Leave for 15 minutes, take off the clingfilm, then fluff up the wheat with a fork. Stir in the molasses, lemon juice, chopped vegetables and parsley, and chill.Heat a griddle pan. Toss the aubergine slices in the remaining tablespoon of oil, then cook for a minute a side on the hot griddle, till tender, then season and set aside.For the dressing, blitz together the yoghurt, tahini, garlic and lemon juice, season, then stir in the mint.To serve, lay an aubergine slice on a large plate, top with a spoonful of the wheat and a spoonful of dressing, and repeat in alternating layers to form a tower. Scatter the watercress, if using, on top, drizzle more dressing all over and serve.Jane Baxter runs Wild Artichokes in Kingsbridge, Devon. Her latest book, Leon Happy Salads, is published by Octopus at £15.99. To order a copy for £12.79, go to bookshop.theguardian.com.What to drink I’d normally go for red wine with aubergines, but I reckon rosé would work better with the yoghurt dressing here. I even managed to track down a Turkish one – Pasaeli Calkarasi Rosé 2015 (£13.99 Red Squirrel; 13% abv) – but any strong, dry rosé would do. FBWarm salt cod, little gem and tomato salad: Fergus HendersonPerhaps it’s to do with those delicate Arctic summers, but Norwegian salt cod, or klippfisk, seems a little gentler in a salad than its Portuguese and Spanish counterparts. The aïoli here makes more than you need (about 300ml in all), but it’s not worth making in smaller quantities. On the plus side, it keeps very well for five or six days, and can be used with all sorts, from crudités to poached or roast fish, chicken, rabbit or quail. Serves four.For the aïoli10 cloves garlic, peeledSea salt and black pepper1 free-range egg yolkAt least 300ml extra-virgin olive oilJuice of 1 lemon (you may not need it all, but it’s best to have it to hand, just in case)For the salad300g salt cod (Norwegian, ideally), skinned6 good tomatoesSea salt and black pepperExtra-virgin olive oil2 heads little gem, leaves separated and washed1 healthy spoonful aïoli (see above)1 handful chopped curly parsleyFirst make the aïoli. Put the garlic into the chopping bowl of a food processor with a pinch of salt (this helps to break it up) and a little pepper. Whizz until finely pulped – this is important, because you don’t want garlic chippings in your aïoli. With the motor still running, add the egg yolk, let it meet the garlic for a moment, then carefully and slowly pour in the oil in a gentle stream. The emulsion should safely hold up to 300ml of oil; at this point, take a view and, if you can, add a little more oil. Add the lemon juice, tasting as you go, adjust the seasoning and refrigerate.Soak the salt cod overnight in clean water, or perhaps early in the morning before your dinner, if you are using a lightly salted variety. You should soak it for at least 12 hours, and change the water a few times.Cut the tomatoes in half lengthways, sprinkle with salt, pepper and oil, and roast in a medium oven for about 20 minutes. This will soften and slightly dry them, intensifying and sweetening their flavour. Leave to cool, making sure to reserve the cooking juices.Put the little gem leaves and roast tomato halves in a bowl. Mix the oily tomato juices with a spoonful of aïoli.When you’re ready to serve, bring a pan of water to a gentle simmer. Chop the cod into 2.5cm cubes and poach in the simmering water for five minutes. Be gentle, but don’t worry unduly if the cod does fall apart slightly: it will still taste delicious. Gently lift out the fish with a slotted spoon, shake off any excess water and add to the salad bowl. Spoon over the tomato/aïoli dressing, add the parsley, gently but thoroughly toss the salad, and eat.Fergus Henderson is chef/patron of St John in London.What to drink If it’s a Fergus recipe, the wine has got to be French, and the Co-op’s fresh, crisp Truly Irresistible Picpoul de Pinet 2015 (£6.99; 12% abv) would hit the spot; Tesco’s version is fine, too. FBPeach fattoush: Thomasina MiersI once had a wonderful guacamole in Mexico that used peach instead of tomato, so I’ve applied the same thought processes to this summery take on one of my favourite Middle Eastern salads. Serves four to six.2 large wholemeal pittas, cut open like a bookA good glug of extra-virgin olive oilSea salt and freshly ground black pepper½ tsp sumac, plus extra to garnish1 bunch asparagus – ie, about 8 stems – woody ends trimmed (our season has just ended, so it’ll have to be imported)3 ripe, yellow-flesh peaches1 handful mint leaves, torn1 handful fresh oregano leaves1 handful fennel tops, wild fennel or dill1 small, crisp iceberg lettuce, cored, washed and chopped into chunks½ cucumber, cut in half lengthways, then into chunky half moons100g fetaFor the dressing½ garlic clove, peeled and crushed1 pinch brown sugar1 tsp pomegranate molasses2 tbsp sherry vinegar5 tbsp olive oilSqueeze of lemon juice (optional)Heat the oven to 200C/400F/gas mark 6. Put the pitta on a large baking sheet, drizzle generously with olive oil and season with sea salt and sumac. Bake for 10 minutes, until crisp and golden all over, then remove and set aside. Once cool enough to handle, break the bread into rough, bite-sized pieces.Meanwhile, bring a pan of water to a boil and cook the asparagus for three to four minutes, so it’s done but still has crunch. Drain, refresh under cold water and set aside.It’s easiest to make the dressing in a jar: put in the garlic, sugar, molasses and vinegar, screw on the lid, then shake until the sugar has dissolved. Add the oil, season to taste, add a little lemon juice, if you think it needs it, and set aside.Peel, stone and chop the peaches, and put them in a large salad bowl; add the pitta crisps and all the other salad ingredients except the feta. Pour over the dressing, toss to coat everything, then crumble over the feta, sprinkle with a little more sumac and serve.What to drink A New Zealand sauvignon would be perfect with these big, punchy flavours. Majestic’s textbook Definition Sauvignon Blanc 2015 (13% abv) is good value at £8.99 on its mix-six deal. FB 