It’s unlikely that you have managed to miss the celebrations to mark the 400th anniversary of William Shakespeare’s death. Some have played him straight, others such as Ian McEwan’s comic novel, Nutshell, and Margaret Atwood’s Hag-Seed are clever reinterpretations. Even the Gruffalo has had a Hamlet moment. So how about parody? Irreverence? Shakespeare wasn’t above a gag or two at his characters’ expense. His most tragic character, Lear, has a fool whose role is to puncture and make us laugh.Parody is having a bit of a moment right now; the Ladybird spoofs have hogged the bestseller lists for over a year and soon The Famous Five parodies will be in the bookshops. Not that parody has ever really not had a moment. From Jonathan Swift, Henry Fielding and Jane Austen to Lewis Carroll, Max Beerbohm and Stella Gibbons, parody has been an ever-present in the British literary landscape. We Brits love parody. It appeals to our sense of humour. Our capacity to laugh at – and with – the things we love best.Parody is both reverent and irreverent, faithful and unfaithful at the same time. The Ladybird books have worked so well because they tap into our childhood and subvert and twist it with an adult knowingness. Nostalgia mixed with humour. But with our best known and most loved texts, parody can also be a new, playful way in to understanding the original, both for those who know the work and can pick up the cultural references, and those who don’t or were put off it at school. It can work on many levels, from straightforward comic entertainment to literary criticism. Indeed, in many ways parody is the ultimate status symbol for any writer. It is a sign that their work has become part of the national consciousness.In our versions of Hamlet, Much Ado About Nothing, Macbeth, and Romeo and Juliet, John Sutherland and I have tried something a little different. I have rewritten – and shortened – the scenes while retaining the verse; in some cases retaining the original and in others rewriting. Not to change the meaning, but to have fun and to offer different insights; to get inside these wonderful plays and, playfully, turn them inside out. John has annotated the text in a way that illuminates it, but makes fun of the leaden gravitas with which many critics write their footnotes.Something for those who take their Shakespeare too seriously. And for those who don’t take it seriously enough      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘That’s just my luck’ ... Michael Fassbender as Macbeth in Justin Kurzel’s film. Photograph: Allstar/DMC FilmMacbeth Act 5, Scene 5Macbeth Hang out our banners, I’m ready for the fight,Let bloody rivers flow beneath my feet.Seyton The queen, my lord, is dead.(1)Macbeth She should have died hereafter,There would have been a time for such a word.Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and the day after that,Creeps in this petty pace from day to dayTo the last syllable of recorded time.Life’s all too futile, meaningless and bleak,An existential nightmare for the weak.(2)Enter a messengerMessenger I looked toward Birnam and anon methoughtThe wood began to move.Macbeth That’s just my luck.When everything goes wrong, there is still moreThat can go wrong. A walking wood is notWhat I had planned. Enough of all self-pity,I could not see the wood for all the trees.(1) How does she die? It is hinted, a bit later, that she kills herself – like Cleopatra, Ophelia and Portia (in Julius Caesar). But how exactly did she kill herself? Odd, too, that Macbeth can’t be bothered to go and look at the body, or at least ask some pointed questions.(2) This is Macbeth’s great, soliloquising meditation on the meaninglessness of life. It’s been an expensive lesson for him. “Hereafter” is ambiguous. It means both “too soon” and “what the hell, she would have died later anyway”.Note also that the original “Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow” is 11 syllables rather than the usual 10. Shakespeare isn’t afraid to break the rigidity of the form; neither is Crace.Hamlet Act 3, Scene 1      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Not above a gag or two ... William Shakespeare. Picture: AlamyHamlet To be, or not to be: that is the question,The very essence of philosophy.Whether ’tis nobler in the mind to sufferThe slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,And by opposing end them. To die, to sleep;To sleep, perchance to dream. Ay, there’s the rub;For in that sleep of death what dreams may come,When we have shuffled off this mortal coil?Or could it be that I o’erthink my lifeAnd take my torment far too personally?From too much thought doth little action come,Thus conscience does make cowards of us all.So man up, Hamlet; get thyself stuck in.Remember this: I think, therefore I am.(1)(1) It’s English literature’s most famous speech, in a play stuffed full of quotable quotes. However, Hamlet is not displaying high-powered original thought. “To be or not to be” is a standard philosophy essay question. What we have here is not Hamlet the great thinker but Hamlet the undergrad. “Conscience does make cowards of us all.” Of Hamlet, perhaps, but not Claudius. Hamlet is dangerously underestimating his “mighty opposite”, as he calls the king.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘A bit of trash talk. Now kiss me’ ... Kenneth Branagh as Benedick and Emma Thompson as Beatrice in Branagh’s film of Much Ado About Nothing. Photograph: Allstar/BBCMuch Ado About Nothing Act 5, Scene 2Beatrice So. Are you going to tell me what went down between you and Claudio?Benedick A bit of trash talk. Now kiss me.(1)Beatrice Foul words are but foul breath. And I do not kiss foul breath.(2)Benedick OK, OK. I can’t get out of the banter habit. Either Claudio accepts my challenge or I’ll tell everyone he’s a coward, Now, back to me. Which of my bad parts did you fall in love with first?Beatrice There are so many, I wouldn’t know where to start. But you tell me which of my good parts you do suffer love for?Benedick I suffer because there are too few.Beatrice I’m glad we’ve cleared that up then.Benedick Start as you mean to go on. And how’s your cousin?(3)Beatrice Extremely ill.Benedick And how do you?Beatrice I’m extremely ill too.Benedick I guessed as much.Enter UrsulaUrsula Madam, you must come quickly to your uncle’s. Lady Hero’s been proved to be a saint, Claudio’s been getting it in the neck and your uncle has been threatening to marry him off to some other cousin.Beatrice Will you come with me to hear this news?Benedick I will live in thy heart, die in thy lap and be buried in thy eyes.Beatrice Don’t be such a soppy twat.(1) An act of female subservience, as in “kiss me Kate” in The Taming of the Shrew. But Beatrice is not tamed, and probably – even after marriage (assuming Benedick survives to marry her) – never will be. You want tame? Get yourself a dog.(2) One recalls Benedick’s earlier comments about toothache. Perhaps he has halitosis and even his best friends won’t tell him.(3)The question he should have asked first. Shakespeare is using this rather odd scene to forecast what the marriage of B&B will be like. Constant witty bickering, with the hen pecking more skilfully than the cock.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Thou hast stopped thy drippy mumblings’ ... Claire Danes and Leonardo DiCaprio in Baz Luhrmann’s Romeo + Juliet. Photograph: Allstar/20th Century FoxRomeo and Juliet Act 2, Scene 2Romeo But soft! What light through yonder window breaks?It is the east, and Juliet is the sun.She is more fair than any babe alive,How I envy the gown in which she stands.Juliet appears aloft as at a window(1)Romeo It is my lady, O, it is my love:If only she did know how I do feel.I know I can’t stop going on and onAbout the charms of my sweet Juliet,But nothing else I have upon my mind.I can but hope she feels the same as me.See how she leans her cheek upon that hand!Wouldst were that hand mine own.(2)Juliet Ay me!Romeo (aside) She speaks!Is there no end to Juliet’s talents?Juliet O Romeo, Romeo! Wherefore art thou Romeo?(3)By which I mean why art thou MontagueAnd not where art thou standing somewhere near?Romeo She dost not know I’m here; I’ll hold my tongue.Juliet ’Tis but thy name that is my enemy;What’s in a name? That which we call a roseBy any other word would smell as sweet;(4)If thou wert Smith how simple would it beFor me to shout aloud that I love thee.Romeo Call me but love, and I’ll be new baptised;Henceforth I never will be Romeo.Juliet What man art thou that thus bescreen’d in nightSo stumblest on my counsel?Romeo Art thou deaf?If I heard you, then surely you heard me?I did clearly say the name Romeo.But never mind, we’ll let that defect pass.(5)If thou findest my name a deal-breakerThen gladly will I change it. Say the word!Juliet Now I hear thee talking clear as day,For thou hast stopped thy drippy mumblings.Though I might wish thou weren’t a MontagueYou’re perfect as you are, I’d change nothing.Now tell me how you came here to these walls.RomeoLove’s wingèd chariot my legs did takeAnd sped me to the warmth of thine embrace.Juliet Thy poetry doth have a time and place,But now there are some practicalitiesOn which to dwell. My kinsmen are quite fierceAnd if they get a whiff of our intentThy heart from thy dear bod will soon be rent.(1) We know tantalisingly little about the layout of an Elizabethan theatre. It is surmised that Juliet, in the performances during Shakespeare’s day, appeared at the “tiring window” – the small room above the acting area where actors would put on costumes. In the 19th century, with its more elaborate machinery and props, this window became a “balcony”, hence the famous balcony scene.(2) The posture immortalised later by Rodin’s statue of The Thinker. The technical term in Shakespeare’s day is “dumbshow” – the kind of physical language later used in silent movies. Elizabethan actors must have been skilled in it.(3) One of the more famous lines in the play, familiar even to those who have never seen or read it. “Wherefore” is one of the words which, over the last 400 years, we have learned to live without. It means more than just “why”. The question it asks is, “How did you become what you are?”, or “Where are you coming from?” It’s interesting that, 13 years old she may be, but Juliet is wholly ignoring family/paternal prohibitions. Parents are strangely feeble and powerless in this play. Adolescence rules.(4) Another very famous line. It’s logically dubious given the associations which words carry with them. Call a rose “shitwort” and the nostril would subliminally invoke something very unsweet, which might well complicate the sensory experience and probably alter what young men choose to give the objects of their love on Valentine’s Day. What is interesting, however, is how much better a brain Juliet has than Romeo. This is a 13-year-old who has thought deeply about the philosophical implications of nominalism. Score one for the Italian primary-school system.(5) It’s an interesting problem in production that, in order to be heard by each other, the couple must have raised their voices quite substantially. Not to put too fine a point on it, they are shouting. How have they done so without raising the alarm? It elevates the risk factor and audience excitement.• The Incomplete Shakespeare series by John Crace and John Sutherland are published by Doubleday at £6.99 each. To order copies for £5.73 each, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846.