On a trip to Mali a few years ago I visited the national museum in Bamako. The items on show – bowls, jugs, weapons, clothes – were fascinating but limited. For someone raised on London’s museums, where there is an abundance of every artefact you could imagine from all parts of the globe, there was enough to whet the appetite. But it took just 10 minutes to see everything.Across from the museum, in an exhibition centre, I made an intriguing discovery. A Paris museum had lent some of its best Malian artefacts back to the museum. These items were more complete and arresting, confirming my impression that the permanent collection was lacking in depth and quality.I toured the museum with a driver from the UN. He didn’t hide his sadness that these items had to return to France. While appreciating the gesture of the loan, it was an affront to him and his country that the artefacts were not permanently based in Mali.If development was just about economics, the whereabouts of ancient relics wouldn’t matter unless they had a particularly high monetary value. But it is not. Development is about culture, the strength of national, tribal and regional identities, the elevation of all countries to the level of international respect hitherto accorded only to a handful.That is why it is time for colonising powers to return many of the items removed from weaker or conquered nations.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Statue of the Benin cockerel in Jesus College, Cambridge. Photograph: UnknownFollowing the campaign to remove the Rhodes statue from Oxford University’s Oriel College, students at Jesus College in Cambridge are asking their college to return a statue that, at the end of the 19th century, was taken from what is now Nigeria.The most contested museum items in Britain are the Elgin marbles, which are named after the person who oversaw their removal to Britain but are basically half the Athenian Parthenon. Greece understandably wants them returned – deals done at the time of the Ottoman Empire have no place undermining modern international relations. There are other examples of museum disputes, but seldom do they involve the world’s poorest countries. I suspect poor countries are too busy using their political capital with rich countries for more urgent matters, but they are the countries that have most to gain from a modest reallocation of the world’s museum pieces.Ancient artefacts should be returned for two reasons.First, justice. Inevitably, because of the collective myopia under which wealthy nations labour, our museums are not seen as warehouses of stolen goods. Rather they are presented as looking after historic items for the good of humanity. But my colleague in Mali did not suffer under that delusion, and nor will many others who don’t benefit from it. Some of the most extensive looting was carried out by Spain in Latin America, but similar plundering has taken place across the world.Ancient history, some will argue. But as we seek to remake the bonds between nations based on mutual respect rather than plunder, what could be more symbolic than a gradual but highly public return of many of the myriad items removed by travellers, conquistadors and dutiful civil servants? The national museum of Mali deserves to be fitted out in a style of which its people can be proud.The Cambridge cockerel is no Cecil Rhodes statue – it should be treated as a masterpiece The second reason is more instrumental. To walk around a London museum with colleagues from developing countries is to remind oneself what an immense privilege it is to have so much of world history accessible to look at and learn from. What is viewable to Londoners (and those with the money to visit) is available to most people only in books. You can learn more in half an hour in the British Museum than in weeks of study.The vast collections are not just a symbol of historic power and wealth, they are a means of embedding that power today through knowledge. Why should the British have the privilege of seeing the world’s treasures? Isn’t it time to develop creative ways to ensure that all children can learn what British children learn when they wander round museums hardly paying attention and sticking gum on ancient sculptures?Some will point out the financial losses to established museums and the costs of rehousing items. But that is partly the point – these items are valuable, and should be returned. Others will point to the complexities of redistribution – what do you start with, how do you decide, should it be done on a voluntary or statutory basis? But museum curators could make a start, which would mean a changed mindset as much as anything else.Let’s not wait to be asked, or for the original owners to become powerful enough to insist through political means.Let’s be generous for once, and engage in the redistribution of cultural wealth from a position of ethical integrity.