Before I turned up for my first session, everything I knew about archery – which was almost nothing – came from the old Robin Hood cartoon. That was 20 years ago. I was working for the local youth services at the time and we were trying to find new sports to introduce to young people. We came across archery and I went along to look into it. I’ve been shooting ever since.There are many disciplines within archery. The one I practise (and that you’ll see at the Olympics) is called target archery. You’re aiming at a target – or boss – and trying to hit it as close to the centre, known as the gold, as possible. The boss can be anywhere from 30 metres to 90 metres away, and over that distance the margin for error is minuscule – one tiny mistake and you’ll miss it altogether.The boss is made up of concentric rings, which are worth more points the closer you get to the centre. In a competition, the winner is the person with the highest score after all their arrows have been shot. But it’s not like football, where you’re trying to score against the opposition; even in a tournament, you’re really only competing against yourself, trying to beat your own score each time. That quest for self-improvement is addictive.Archery requires a different sort of fitness to other sports. During a tournament, you could be shooting more than 150 arrows each day, which develops your back muscles and a strong, stable core. But mental stamina is even more important. When you walk up to the shooting line, you’ve got to relax, concentrate and clear your mind. Worry about what’s going on around you, or anything else, and your arrow will end up in the grass.Some people have watched too many films and think they’re going to be splitting apples in half on their first day. The reality is that learning how to use the different bows takes a lot of practice. I found it frustrating at first, and I still have my off days where my arrows all go astray. But there’s nothing quite like the satisfaction you get from hitting a gold.My weekend workoutHow often do you shoot? Twice a week.Furthest you’ve shot from? 100 yards.Most golds hit in a row? I got six gold once – I don’t think I’ll ever do it again.Five ways to get started1 Stance and posture are essential for an accurate shot. Stand with your feet hip-width apart and perpendicular to the target. Keeping your feet planted and your back straight, twist your upper body to face the target.2 When you’re ready to shoot, put your arrow in place, raise your bow arm, then draw back the string with your other hand until it touches your nose, lips or chin – no further. Try to shoot within four seconds or your arm will begin to shake, throwing your arrow off target.3 You can wear whatever you want on your lower half, but avoid loose-fitting tops and dangling jewellery, and tie back long hair. You don’t want your bowstring to get caught.4 Arrows vary in weight, length and diameter. Which ones you need depends on the bow you’re using and your draw length (akin to your wingspan), so it’s good to get measured at a specialist shop.5 When you start, you’re using unfamiliar and potentially dangerous equipment. Most clubs offer beginners’ courses where you’re taught how to shoot properly and safely. Find your local club on the Archery GB website.The essential kit      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   From left:Longshot traditional quiver and belt, £12.95, quicksarchery.co.uk;Samick Sage 62in recurve bow, £99, archeryworld.co.uk;Easton Powerflight arrow, from £4.29, merlinarchery.co.ukDo you have a passion for exercise? Send your story to fitness@theguardian.com