Chyna, the most famous female wrestler of all time, the “9th Wonder of the World”, died on Thursday. Famed for her huge power, she wrestled against male competitors as an equal, something that is still rarely done today. As a female wrestler, I’ve always admired her, and the way she challenged and changed how the world viewed femininity. Chyna inspired millions of kids who were teased about their weight, height and gender – in her they had a champion, a “wonder”, not a freak.Deaths such as Chyna's are worryingly common in the world of WWE Born Joanie Marie Laurer, she spent some time in the Peace Corps before deciding to use her large build to her advantage. Aged 26, she took up wrestling, and was taught by the Fabulous Moolah, another late, great female wrestler. To become successful at wrestling requires peak dedication and fitness; Laurer took to the sport, and was on the biggest show in the world within a year.When Laurer joined the WWE in 1996, she was given the name “Chyna” – because she was neither delicate nor breakable. Like a lot of female wrestlers, she started life as a valet for a male counterpart, but with a difference – she was his “bodyguard” – empowered to compete with the men. Within another year, she was the first woman to enter a Royal Rumble, where 30 competitors fight it out. She also became the first woman to win an Intercontinental Championship belt, though it was claimed her opponent was paid $300,000 for the indignity of losing to a woman. Despite these setbacks, she was the biggest draw of the company and had a number of matches against greats such as HHH, Mick Foley and Eddie Guerrero.To many she was, and remains, the antithesis of how most women employed by the WWE are portrayed. It was commonplace that women would get their “titties” talked about by the commentators, but rarely their skill in the ring. The managers thought the audience just wanted girls in bikinis; it turned out what they really wanted was a hard femme powerhouse like Chyna. Despite her size and gender, people loved her. Instead of girls in bikinis, it turned out that what audiences really wanted was a femme powerhouse like Chyna However, Chyna started to become regularly linked with male characters as a love interest, instead of focusing on her ring prowess. In her biography, a New York Times bestseller, she describes no longer being the dominating force in the fight, but more of an oversexed side-kick. She became exhausted trying to match up to a character she portrayed day in, day out. She once said, “Chyna is an unstoppable force; even I can’t stop Chyna.” She suffered the same problem that many celebrities face – trying to reconcile Chyna the wrestler with Joanie the person.In 2002, after a neck injury, she was faxed by the WWE and told she was no longer needed – and ended up working in pornography. Chyna struggled with drug addiction thereafter and often spoke about how the pressures of fame and shame culture drove people to extreme habits. However, by 2015, she was back on sturdier ground and moved to Japan to teach English.Since her death, there have been widespread calls for her to be inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame. For many, Chyna was already there. She laid the ground for many after her. I hope she died knowing that she inspired a whole generation – me included – to be both physically and emotionally strong.Wrestlers often pass away young; they put their health on the line for their art. Chyna did this and so much more. We should remember her as someone who was extraordinary - a role model for difference. But more importantly, we should remember Joanie Laurer, who was strong enough to defy expectations and become Chyna.