A generation of young people will be “intellectually poorer, emotionally more limited, and socially more isolated” unless they are allowed access to a full range of arts and culture.A report by campaign group the Cultural Learning Alliance, describing itself as a “call to arms” says there has been a decline in the number of children in England taking arts subjects, a reduction in arts teaching hours and fewer arts teachers employed in schools. Beyond school, informal programmes for young people have suffered due to local authority cuts.The report offers compelling evidence that taking part in structured arts activities increases cognitive abilities and that students who study arts subjects are more employable.One statistic shows that students from low-income families who take part in arts activities at school are three times more likely to get a degree. Another says that children who take part in arts activities in the home during their early years are ahead in reading and maths at the age of nine.Lord Puttnam, who chairs the Cultural Learning Alliance, described the report as a wakeup call. He said: “This report clearly demonstrates that the arts empower children, create a culture of citizenship and help them to achieve their true potential. It is essential that access to arts is a right and not a privilege.“We are calling for everyone to work together to ensure more commitment, more focus and more action to protect and expand the arts curriculum in schools.” The report paints a picture of a “fractured system and difficult climate” that makes it increasingly hard for young people to have access to arts and culture.It says: “To limit young people’s access to the full range of cultural experience is to disenfranchise a generation. They will be intellectually poorer, emotionally more limited, and socially more isolated, lacking the skills that are learned through creativity and collaboration. “We cannot allow this to happen: we must act now to ensure that the next generation is given all the tools it needs to build a stronger, healthier society.”The report, Imagine Nation, is a updated edition of one first published in 2011, and aims to explore the social, educational, economic and personal value of cultural learning.The report also includes testimonies from figures including Sir Nicholas Serota, the outgoing Tate director who will next month become chair of Arts Council England.Serota said experience of art and culture in school can shape all lives. “Creativity is ... one of the essential ingredients of a rich and tolerant society and of personal and national identity. It should be one of the cornerstones of education, not an option or an afterthought and we should be celebrating all kinds of intelligence and intuition, not creating hierarchies within the disciplines of the mind,” he said.