Recently, for the third time in four years, our family said goodbye to a much loved pet. It was possibly even more miserable than when my big brother’s cat Percy died over 40 years ago, with our gruesome 11-year-old neighbour announcing “Your cat’s dead on the road!” with noticeable relish. My mum and brother rushed to retrieve the huge grey cat who had been part of life for as long as I could remember and laid him gently down outside the back door. We gathered round him in complete shock. It was my first experience of loss and what I remember most is the physical pain with the weight in my chest making it almost impossible to swallow.A few weeks ago, I held my eldest daughter as she said goodbye to Silkie, the Siamese cat she has doted on for nearly 19 years. An apparently routine visit to the vet had swiftly turned to tragedy, with immediate decisions demanded before discomfort could slip into agony. We had to rush to get all four children to the vet’s as quickly as possible but in the end it was peaceful and heartbreaking – the perfect end to a long and lovely life. Perfect for Silkie, but utterly woeful for us, not least because Sacha, our other Siamese cat, hasn’t stopped yelling yet and Siamese are loud.You’d think I’d learn. When my children started asking for pets I forgot my grief over Percy and the later loss of Sakki, another diva Siamese who put dead mice on my pillow and had no conscience about drying her soaking fur by sliding into bed with me. I was midway through university when she died and my sisters and brother and I were devastated, but I seemed to have a mind blank about ethat.All I remembered was the good times. Always having a friend who’s overjoyed to see you (if they are a dog) and happy to tolerate you (if they’re a cat), someone to talk to when the rest of the world – family included – don’t understand you. At five and two, Rosie and Ellen were obsessed with kittens but their dad didn’t have pets as a child and they seemed to be having little luck in wearing him down. Then Santa left a photograph of two kittens in Rosie’s stocking and a letter saying she’d been the best girl in Scotland that year so she and Ellen were getting the kittens in January.The letter resulted in much hilarity and great sadness. We still tease Rosie because she was learning to read so she thought Santa was just giving her a photo of two kittens, though she thought that was kind. The great sadness was that of her best friend Laura who had also been good but had no kitten photos in her stocking and nearly 20 years on Santa still feels guilty for his tactlessness in not describing Rosie as one of the best girls in Scotland.Silkie and Sakki 2 (kindly named by Ellen in memory of the first Sakki) were an instant hit, with all the children’s friends piling in to inspect them and irritate the life out of their parents by demanding cats too. Our son James was 10 months old but the kittens were endlessly patient with him, slipping easily from his grasp if they felt he was being too affectionate and never raising a claw to anyone. Connie was born less than a year later and grew up with them in the same way, even referring to them as her sisters.Ellen was 10 when she started a puppy campaign, but I was immovable. I work from home so I knew whose chore this would be, but she and her dad fought such a brilliant battle that I capitulated a year later and Lily the whippet joined us. This particular episode should ensure our kids let us at least pick our nursing home, as a friend dryly informed us, as we didn’t breathe a word and they came home to find a puppy waiting for them. Ellen lived up to all her promises, did masses of walks and loads of training and all of them adored Lily. Seriously, nothing could go wrong.Except that five years ago, Sakki 2 took ill and we nursed her for a year, before having that ghastly, inevitable conversation with the vet. The last thing she heard was Ellen whispering “I love you” in her ear and we all cried for days. It didn’t matter that she was 14 and a reasonable age for a cat. She was off to cat heaven, we were unbearably vulnerable and it took a couple of years to get our pet-owning confidence back. Bad mistake. A week before Christmas, Lily took ill and we discovered she had kidney failure and probably a year to live, but in the event she died within five days, the day before her eighth birthday. We still can’t talk about that Christmas.I was the idiot who suggested another kitten. Silkie had mourned Sakki 2 for so long – searching the house and garden and crying for her – that I believed grief would kill her. I also felt she was carrying too much family love and responsibility on her little furry shoulders so Sacha came to keep her warm at night, bring her dead birds that she showed no interest in – though she appeared mildly amused when Sacha drowned a struggling fledgling in their water bowl – and generally give her a new lease of life. And then, in a weak moment, I agreed to another puppy – Daisy, continuing the flower and whippet theme – with little discussion over anything more than dogwalking, training and holiday cover when we should have been talking death and devastation. It’s a double whammy for parents who love the animal but also love the heartbroken kids People agonise over getting a pet and all the responsibilities involved when in reality you should be worrying about the end of the relationship. It’s a double whammy for parents who love the animal but also love the heartbroken kids – I would seriously swap various humans if I could get Silkie back for the kids. Sacha and Daisy are only two, so hopefully further tragedy is years away – though I know it will come eventually and for the first time I’m wondering if we’ve done our kids harm by having pets.It’s glorious when all goes well, though training, picking up poo and paying horrendous pet bills are nothing compared with hand-feeding elderly animals, carrying them to the loo when they are too shaky, worrying that every illness will be the last and trying to soothe away the anguish on the children’s faces when you know they know things don’t look good. Even the pain of having my knee broken last year by the whippet pales into insignificance beside our current agony.I also feel strangely angry with our animals for dying and guilty that I couldn’t save them for my children. There’s a rock on my chest – and I know that to anyone who doesn’t have pets, I must sound like a fool – and I have suffered genuine bereavement when my dad died, but this also feels suspiciously like the real thing. Watching my children being almost unable to breathe or move for grief makes us seem not such brilliant parents after all – seriously, do the benefits of always having a tiny furry shoulder to cry on make the eventual agony worthwhile?Why is the death of a pet so painful?Jon Patrick, consultant psychiatrist in psychotherapy: “Joan’s feelings aren’t unique or unintelligible. She suspects this grief for her cat is “like the real thing” but from a psychoanalytic perspective it is the real thing. The family have dared to get their feelings entangled with their animals, and this process of untangling during bereavement is a pain not dissimilar to depression. We lose not just the object who dies but also the parts of ourselves we locate in them through unconscious projection – a risk we take when we project parts of ourselves on to any other thing, whether it be a pet, football team, child or partner. Love often physically hurts.“The good news is that time heals but the loss will remain, which – it seems to psychoanalysts – is as it should be. Denial of these losses, or too quick a replacement of our pets or other loved objects, leaves their predecessors ungrieved for. It robs us of the chance to do the psychological work required to truly move on and also to keep hold of our loved ones with us when they have gone.”