The Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the recent wave of violence are widely covered and discussed. In contrast, there is very little awareness of Palestinians who are also citizens of Israel. Despite representing a sizeable minority – 20% of Israeli society – and holding a unique position of deep connections with both, our complexity remains an untold story. It’s time to embrace more complex identities that struggle with conflicting narratives and embody contradictions As a native minority living in Israel, we are tossed on the waves of political whim, and given hope only as a charade, as it is dashed before our eyes. This seems to be our fate. In the past month we have experienced a pendulum swing of extremes, from the Israeli government passing an economic plan to inject almost $4bn into Arab society, and narrow some of the most stark disparities; to prime minister Binyamin Netanyahu’s speech at the site of a murderous attack in Tel Aviv where he held all of Arab society accountable for the actions of a madman. This is far from an exception, rather the rule itself. Palestinian citizens of Israel are at best a political pawn, more often a forgotten or dismissed entity.Only yesterday, I received a phone call from an Israeli newspaper, asking me to comment on a survey showing that 50% of Israelis are pro-transfer – moving Arab Israelis from their homes. Meir Kahane’s ideas, outlawed in the 1980s for being too extreme and inhumane, are back on the table. I don’t think this survey reflects reality – a yes or no question in such a matter is a very simplistic way of treating it – but it is striking when given that simplistic choice half of Israelis answered yes.As a Palestinian musician and artist living and working in the heart of Israeli society, I am often torn. Between loyalty to my individual passions, my artistic freedom and my national responsibilities. Between integrating into Israeli society, yet remaining true to Palestinian culture and the struggle for equality. When I represented Israel at the Eurovision Song Contest in 2009 together with the Jewish-Israeli singer Noa, the pressure from my Palestinian compatriots to withdraw was overwhelming. And, when I voiced my feelings against the escalation of the Israeli army’s actions within Gaza at the time, I was branded “an enemy from within” by Jewish-Israelis. My Facebook feed labels me both a fig leaf for the occupation or a terrorist, depending on which day of the week it is, sometimes both at the same time.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Noa and Mira Awad - There Must Be Another WayRecently Israel’s minister of arts and culture threatened to withdraw state funding from the only Arabic-speaking theatre in Israel, as the plays were deviating from the Zionist narrative. I voiced my protest, and joined a delegation of Arab and Jewish artists to meet the minister in question at president Reuven Rivlin’s residence and challenge the accusations. Once again, I was hit from both directions, accused of being a “fifth column” by some, for supporting non-Zionist content, and a “collaborator” by others, for simply agreeing to meet Israeli officials.Within this flux of complexity and criticism, I have a vantage point of both Israeli and Palestinian society, which might enable navigating a road map out of a conflict that is seemingly unending. It is for this reason that my work offers a bridge between the arts and promoting peace. I sit on the board of a major Arab-Jewish NGO, the Abraham Fund Initiatives, symbolically named after the father of both nations, and increasingly find my work providing a backdrop to discourse on conflict mitigation and tolerance building.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Mira Awad sings BahlawanYet these are stormy times, and discussing peace only seems to breed a greater suspicion, as if each side should play its role and radicalise in reaction to the other. As if this needed further complication, broader Arab society in the Middle East refuses to recognise my existence. A glaring illustration has been the refusal of the Arab version of the TV show The Voice to credit my music, which they are currently using for their adverts. The show is no stranger to Palestinian Israelis, and there have been contestants from within the Israeli borders who have performed under the Palestinian flag because their Israeli passports would not allow them entry into Lebanon where the programme is recorded. However, my case is not so simple to solve. Maybe it is my open identification as both Palestinian and Israeli that has created a subconscious justification for the show’s producers to use my music without permission; maybe it’s just that they can – after all, a Palestinian Israeli appears to be a second-class citizen in every setting.The little solace I find in having my music stolen by the most popular TV show in the Arab world is that the song they chose to use is called Bahlawan, meaning acrobat. It is a song that discusses among other things the complexity of a Palestinian Israeli: “Walking on a tightropeMy arms stretched to the sidesNo guarantee, no shieldAn acrobat with no safety net.”We’re living in complex times, yet our discourse is becoming less sophisticated. It’s time to embrace more complex identities that struggle with conflicting narratives and embody contradictions. I know of no better place to start than the Palestinians who are also Israeli citizens. Hearing our voice could be a linchpin in redefining the Israel-Palestine conflict.It is time to recognise the acrobats.