Below is this week’s playlist – the theme and tunes picked by a reader from the comments on last week’s callout. Thanks for your suggestions.  about the format of the weekly Readers Recommend series at the end of the piece.Readers recommend: share your songs about broken promises It seems “interlopers” as a theme had one or two of our community reaching for the dictionary, and a couple more wondering if it wasn’t too narrow a topic. Aw, come on folks, you should know by now, there’s no such thing as a topic “too narrow” for RR. Sure enough, by nomination deadline on Monday, we’d had any number of invaders and intruders, secret lovers and cuckolds, saints and sinners, loners, loonies and even the odd lupus – “becoming involved in a social group without being asked” (Cambridge English Dictionary), since you ask. But at the risk of sounding a bit Royston Vasey, are those really the kind of people we want around our locale?    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The YouTube playlist.Click here if you prefer Spotify.OK, we certainly wouldn’t want to actually make friends with some of these characters. Veruca Salt’s interloper is hopefully only passing through: “You’re So Weird, I’m terrified”. At least that type of unwelcome visitor is easy to spot. Peter Gabriel’s isn’t, but he’s been identified somehow: “You may look like we do, Talk like we do, But you know how it is, You’re Not One of Us”.Michael Kiwanuka doesn’t need anyone to tell him he’s an interloper; he’s singing it from the rooftops for himself. But isn’t it sad that here in 2016, we know what he means by the phrase “Black Man In A White World”? If you’ll pardon the pun, Tricky’s the man to turn those tables. If Hell Is Round the Corner, then it would be too easy wander into “a place where [one] is considered not to belong” (Oxford dictionary definition of Interloper). The trip-hop vibe belies the lyrical threat within.   nilpferd 11 June 2016 10:14pmTricky- Hell is 'round the corner.Genre-defining masterpiece about the increasing mismatches and arbitrary borders being erected within early nineties British society, in which Tricky first riffs on the lack of acceptance he feels, then implies that interlopers themselves may be eaten...I seem to need a reference to get residence A reference to your preference to say I'm a good neighbour, I trudge So judge me for my labour Lobotomy ensures my good behaviour.. ....we're hungry, beware of our appetiteDistant drums bring the news of a kill tonightThere is an even more self-serving interloper hidden by an even gentler piece of music in our next selection. On Hearing The First Cuckoo in Spring, composed by Bradford’s Frederick Delius in 1912, makes the A-list here on both topic-fit and superstitious grounds – the daughter I take my blogname from has her audition at the Delius Music school next month *fingers crossed*. And, pushing my luck, I’m going to stay in Bradford to give you the next artist for our list: it’s New Model Army with Higher Wall, an edifice built on greed and fear, which is trying to keep the interlopers out.But what happens if the interloper is already inside, yet unseen? Spookily, it seems there may be A Different Bob (Colorblind James Experience) in Chuck Cuminale’s life already. And in the Cure’s Charlotte Sometimes, there are two interlopers exchanging places.Two personal favourites now. Hothouse Flowers’ Ballad of Katie was the first song that came to mind when I was discussing this topic idea, so I’m grateful to billycutshaw for recommending it. And next, at last, all those bloggers habitually nominating Lynyrd Skynyrd’s Gimme Three Steps can finally stand down – it’s in! Ronnie Van Zandt’s good-time seeking interloper leaves at the first opportunity he gets, having learned “it ain’t no fun, starin’ straight down a .44”. Maybe sometimes it’s best to just go, never look back, and put it down to experience once you’ve learned You’re Not Welcome Here (Phantom Planet), eh BlackCombe?But I don’t want to finish on a downer. The joy of RR is that interlopers of all types have been, perversely, made welcome by our community this week, and my final selection has that vibe by the bucketload. Carbon Based Lifeforms’ Interloper may be in an alien land, but this wonderful instrumental just drew me in and wrapped me in sounds that I’ve repeat-played more than any other song this week. I like it here; I think I’ll stay a while …New themeThe theme for next week’s playlist will be announced at 8pm (UK time) on Thursday 16 June. You have until 11pm on Monday 20 June to make nominations.Here’s a reminder of some of the guidelines for RR:If you have a good theme idea, or if you’d like to volunteer to compile a playlist from readers’ suggestions and write a blog about it, please email matthew.holmes@theguardian.com or add it here via GuardianWitness.There’s a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are “zedded”, at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of “zedded”, “donds” and other strange words used by RR regulars.Many RR regulars also congregate at the ’Spill blog.