The film costume designer Norma Moriceau, who has died aged 72, was part of the small network of provocateurs who clustered round the enterprises Malcolm McLaren ran in the 1970s at 430 King’s Road, Chelsea. As Too Fast to Live Too Young to Die, the shop sold vintage biker gear; as Sex, it mainstreamed niche fetish and S&M-wear labels, and the improvisations of McLaren’s partner, Vivienne Westwood, which codified punk; as Seditionaries, it experimented with renegade politics. Moriceau would draw on them all for her work on the Mad Max films, Mad Max II: The Road Warrior (1981) and Mad Max: Beyond Thunderdome (1985).Moriceau, an Australian working in fashion in London in that era, lived round the corner from McLaren and Westwood, shot ads with them and took pictures of punk’s roster (including a Westwood portrait, all jags and spikes). She styled McLaren, Sid Vicious and Johnny Rotten for the film The Great Rock’n’Roll Swindle (1980), to which she also contributed her Super-8 footage of the Sex Pistols.She returned temporarily to Australia to do more conventional film costume design, including 1950s-60s period outfits for Phillip Noyce’s Newsfront (1978), and a children’s film, Fatty Finn (1980), and was introduced to George Miller, director of Mad Max (1979). He had barely bothered with costume for his original film, outfitting Mel Gibson in pricey biker leathers and everybody else in cheap vinyl copies, but he needed a fully imagined aesthetic for The Road Warrior, because its characters would also serve as set decoration, while their back-stories could only be filled in through the way they looked.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Norma Moriceau with Mel Gibson (Mad Max). Photograph: John Brock/Kennedy Miller MitchellFor Road Warrior and Thunderdome Moriceau provided her synthesis of the avant garde of the previous 15 years. Punk was defunct by the time the films were released, so her work should have looked dated from the start. Instead, her assemblies of junk, rawhide and hand-soldered metal (70lb of coat hangers and chicken wire, plus shoulder-padded chain mail chinking on Tina Turner in Thunderdome) escaped fashion to become the folk costume of fantasy apocalypse in films, television, comics and games. “Male trouble,” was how she described the mode to Rolling Stone magazine. “Big butch business.”Moriceau had grown up in Wollongong, New South Wales, and Sydney; she went to the UK in 1964, intending to model. (The founder of the Traverse theatre in Edinburgh, Jim Haynes, remembered her waitressing between jobs, eagerly seeing fringe stage productions.) She moved to styling fashion for newspapers, and the magazines 19 and Honey, had bit parts in a couple of short films, wrote a third, and at last found her metier supplying rough outback period costumes for the Australian picture Journey Among Women (1977).Australia became her base again during the Mad Max movies, and she sourced much raw material there: she bought S&M gear from a boutique near her home in Sydney, recycled rags and repurposed scrapyard finds, and commissioned bigger stuff welded in workshops. In 2015, in retirement and ailing, she had to back out of Miller’s 30-year-delayed Mad Max sequel Fury Road during its prolonged pre-production phase, but her successor, Jenny Beavan, inherited boxes of tat chosen by Moriceau and stored in a studio warehouse.The young and handsome Gibson had been easily made over into Max, but Moriceau deserves more credit for transforming a leathery sprite, Paul Hogan, into the plausible hero of Crocodile Dundee (1986), and its 1988 sequel, using just a bush-hat adorned with half a jaw’s-worth of crocodile teeth and boots with visibly heavy mileage. She could do ordinary contemporary clothes for, among others, Phillip Noyce – Dead Calm (1989) and a standard Hollywood picture, Patriot Games (1992) – but she disliked Hollywood’s competitive, production-line norm and usually avoided working for it.Her art direction for Jonathan Demme’s Something Wild (1986), though, carried over her bricolage approach to the film’s overall appearance, which still feels wildly original. Moriceau and Demme foraged for months in flea markets and garage sales to dress its location shoots with dense detail. Every item of clutter tells the story.That was also the way Moriceau lived – besides an apartment in Sydney, she lived in her “humpy”, a home patched together from found items, in rural New South Wales. Until she became ill with cancer, she made frequent nomadic trips across Africa and India. There was no marriage and no children, and even friends and colleagues she knew for decades were told very little about her background and private life. A sister, Marion, survives her.• Norma Moriceau, costume designer and art director, born 15 April 1944; died 22 August 2016