When the world finally agrees to constrain the fossil fuel coming out of the ground, one result will be a price on carbon. Whether this comes about through a universal carbon tax or through a global carbon cap and trade system, the effect will be an additional cost that will be passed up the supply chains of all goods and services and reflected in the purchasers’ price.Climate leaders should work with oil companies to put a price on carbon So let’s have a look at what a price of $100 per tonne of carbon dioxide might mean for both consumers and businesses. We can argue about the exact carbon price the world needs in order for enough fuel to stay in the ground, but $100 (£65) is probably in the right ballpark; even though this is somewhat higher than most businesses are currently contemplating.Cheap spuds, pricey asparagusBased on a decade or so of analysing the carbon footprint of products and business supply chains, here are some rough estimates of how some specific prices might change in response. A kilo of local seasonal vegetables might incur a price rise of around 4p whereas the same weight of asparagus, air-freighted out of season from Peru, would be more likely to go up by about £1. Meanwhile the cost of a small petrol car might go up by around £500 while a heavy four-wheel drive would end up rising in price by £2,500. And the cost of the fuel to drive them would probably go up by about 22p per litre (once you take account of both the direct emissions from burning it and those from taking it out of the ground, refining it and transporting it to the pump). I estimate that a laptop might cost between £10 and £60 more, depending on its features and the carbon efficiency of the manufacturing supply chains.  £100bn revenue from a $100 carbon price would be enough to enable a cut in the basic rate of VAT from 20% to 15% All these costs are significant and provide incentives for low carbon choices without absolutely precluding high carbon habits. Since, in round numbers, the carbon footprint of the average UK person is about 10 tonnes per year, the carbon price would track through to about $1,000 (£650) of additional costs per year on average (for simplicity I’ve left out the other greenhouse gases and only include carbon dioxide). But the effect on each of us would depend on our own buying choices.Before assuming that everyone will be worse off, remember that the £100bn or so revenue from a $100 carbon price would be about enough to enable a cut in the basic rate of VAT from 20% to the EU legal minimum of 15%. And if that were done, the carbon price could, overall, enable a hefty rise in standard of living for anyone prepared to follow the new price signals guiding them towards a more sustainable lifestyle. Impact on businessTurning to the effect on businesses, while fossil fuel companies have long been keenly aware of the commercial threat from a global move to leave the fuel in the ground, companies that want to get more use from less carbon will see huge opportunities. Within any competitive market for a product or service, those with the cleanest supply chains will also have the advantage. Since it typically takes a few years for a business to clean up its supply chains, if the carbon price is coming, it might be commercially smart to start the clean up now. This is probably why the CDP (formally Carbon Disclosure Project) supply chain membership forum is experiencing such rapid growth. To give one example of how supply chains might change, a few years ago my company did a study for a house builder, looking at the carbon and energy footprint of different construction types to understand what proportion of the build cost could be tracked back to energy in the supply chains. At that time, energy accounted for just 13% of the build cost and since a timber frame (which has a lower carbon intensity) was slightly more expensive than bricks and blocks it didn’t make straightforward financial sense to switch across. The introduction of a carbon price changes the whole equation.Why we'll sue CEOs who ignore climate change Winners and losersA carbon price will make it automatic for shoppers to factor the carbon into their buying choices, without having to be knowledgeable about the mysterious world of carbon footprints. High carbon choices will still be possible for us all but we will have to want them more. Most of us should be able to feel better off provided governments recycle the revenue from carbon taxes in ways that counterbalance the cost burdens for the person on the street, and provided we allow the new pricing to guide us gently towards to lower carbon habits. For business, the winners will be those whose products enable more utility for less carbon and those who take action ahead of time to sort out their supply chains. This includes all businesses that deliver efficiency and innovation and those whose business models allow for longevity of products. When it comes to like-for-like products, those with the cleanest supply chains will have the edge – so if you think that world might be coming soon, right now would be very good time to take action.