The astute woman of child-bearing age develops a facility to tune out of alarmist headlines about the biological clock. But every now and again an expert comes along and offers the kind of soundbite that cuts through. The latest came courtesy of Gillian Lockwood, medical director of Midland Fertility Clinic, who last month said: “It may not be true that women should be having babies at the time of GCSEs, but they shouldn’t leave it much later than graduation. Age 25 is exactly the time when today’s young women have left university, are trying to get off on a good career, trying to find someone who wants to have babies with them, and trying to get on the housing ladder.”Twenty-five? In a supportive society, women keen to conceive in their mid-twenties might find it realistic to do so. But not in the current climate, where the financial crisis, spiralling property prices, unstable employment, austerity and low pay have combined to trap many members of Generation Y in perpetual financial adolescence.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Millennials talk to their parents about drugs, sex and jobsLast year I interviewed people in their twenties up and down the UK who desperately wanted children but felt their situation was too precarious. Many were living in rented accommodation or with their parents, faced low pay, unemployment or insecure work, and felt they had no chance of getting on the property ladder anytime soon. They are, essentially, priced out of parenthood.It’s a depressing state of affairs that has left some wondering whether reproductive technologies might be the answer. What if you could freeze your eggs and put having a baby literally on ice until things were looking a tad more grown up?In the US, the marketing of egg freezing as a kind of insurance policy for millennials is already in full swing. Facebook, Apple, and the US military now offer egg freezing as an employee benefit. Fertility company EggBanxx estimates that by 2018, 76,000 women will have frozen their eggs. EggBanxx, which describes itself as “Uber, but for egg freezing”, has slogans including “Smart women freeze” and “Lean in, but freeze first!” and throws “Let’s chill” events aimed at young women. Could the UK soon follow suit, as more and more women put off the decision to have children? Inquiries into egg freezing at private clinics in Britain reportedly surged by 400% between 2014 and 2015, and more than half of these came from women under-35. In the US, the marketing of egg freezing is in full swing. Facebook and Apple now offer it as an employee benefit Mehrunissa, 23, plans to freeze her eggs in the next two years. “Ambitious, career-driven women often find it difficult to settle down – in terms of finding suitable partners,” she says. “Other women, who feel more of a time pressure to have kids, feel like they’re in a desperate situation where they need to find a man and settle as soon as possible, so freezing your eggs makes you immune to that sort of pressure, and also puts you in absolute control of your life. I envisage that when I do decide to have kids it’ll be for the right reasons rather than a feeling of desperation or losing a battle against time.”She seems far too young to be thinking about such an extreme course of action but then again, the younger a woman is when she freezes her eggs, the better the chances are of conception. Not that there are any guarantees, and it can very costly – at least £5,000 in some London clinics; the more cycles you invest in, the better is your chance of conceiving. As for Mehrunissa’s aim of being in “absolute control”, when it comes to fertility, there is no such thing. But in a world in which young people lack stability it isn’t hard to understand why the illusion of it can be seductive.“Social circumstances have delayed a lot of things. It’s not just about not having children younger but about not having a job, or a stable career younger, or not having a home,” explains Angel Petropanagos, a research associate in impact ethics at Dalhousie University in Canada, who spoke at a recent debate in the UK organised by the Progress Educational Trust, asking “Can you put motherhood on ice?”“There is all this financial and social instability that has contributed to delayed parenting,” Petropanagos continues, but “one of the challenges is that in the US, egg freezing is really targeting a particular demographic with their advertising ... upper middle-class women who are already privileged. These are the kind of women whose parents and grandparents are paying for egg freezing as a graduation present.”I had my eggs frozen. I wish someone had told me how difficult it was | Eleanor Morgan And this is one of the major problems with egg freezing: that it is being portrayed as an option available for all women to delay motherhood, regardless of their income, when in reality, the costs are prohibitive to many, especially younger women. But because the clinics are arguing that your twenties are what Petropanagos calls the reproductive “sweet spot” when your eggs are more likely to yield results, young women are buying into the dream.Sarah Martins Da Silva, a consultant gynaecologist based in Dundee, points out that “social egg freezing is a personal choice, but you could argue that it actually discriminates against this [younger] demographic as egg freezing needs to be self-funded, and costs several thousand pounds.” She refers to a report by the Centre for Population Change which details how women who remain childless largely do so because they have never wanted children, or because they simply haven’t met the right person yet. “On that basis, I would say the target market is the 30 to 35-year-old career woman who has not met Mr Right, who recognises that they are at risk of fertility problems as they get older, and who wants to preserve better quality eggs and an option to use them in future fertility treatment.”At 34, Natalie (not her real name) could be said to fit into that category. “I’m still very much living that ‘young professional in London’ lifestyle,” she says. “Although I am in my thirties I don’t feel stable enough in myself [to have children]. I part-own a house and earn a decent wage, but freezing my eggs just seems like it could potentially buy me some time. It’s pricey, though, which is why it’s still only a consideration.”In the UK, young women are not yet being aggressively targeted by clinics offering egg freezing. But as it takes longer for them to get on the career and housing ladders, you do wonder how many others will soon be faced with the same choice, and how companies will take advantage of that anxiety. If egg freezing is hawked as a sort of “wonder solution”, it is surely only a matter of time.London hits record low for new affordable housing, figures show The danger is that the overwhelming focus of this will be on the individual reproductive choices of wealthier women, when instead we should be addressing the social structures preventing young women on lower incomes settling down sooner and having children earlier. Lack of affordable housing and maternity and paternity pay, along with (in)flexible or unreliable employment and prohibitively expensive childcare are all factors in our reproductive choices. It would do all women an injustice to neglect to challenge these barriers because of egg-freezing technology’s seemingly miraculous allure.