It was the school leaving party after A Levels, someone’s parents’ house, a warm summer night. Three hours in, we’d finished off the beer and moved on to the stuff at the back of the drinks cabinet. God knows what was in there – Cointreau, Drambuie, WD40 – but so far neither the music nor the alcohol had been strong enough to break the divide between the boys and the girls.At some point during the small hours I discovered the remains of a bottle of vodka. When I took a swig it tasted disgusting. Still, it got the job done. I finished off the bottle and marched outside. There were about 12 boys sprawled over sofas smoking and flicking Rizla pellets at each other. I stood in front of them. “Hello,” I said. The music stopped and into the pause dropped a loud silence. “I’ve been a virgin for 17 years, one month and 14 days,” I said clearly. “and what are you going to do about it?”The boys stared up at me, and I stared at them. On all their faces I could see surprise, horror, discomfort. The silence got bigger and louder, and in the silence I began to blush, a great roar inside as if all the blood in me had just rushed to the front. Both the vodka and the courage had gone. After about 30 seconds I lost my nerve and walked back into the house. Through the open door I heard a huge collective exhale of laughter.Embarrassing. Very. Now, I tell myself that everyone has an embarrassing story and everyone has been, as the Scots say, “black affronted”. Even so, and though it was a very long time ago, I still blush when I think of it.Which is not unusual. I blush when I’m meeting new people, when I’m given a compliment, or when I really laugh. I blush when I lie and when I tell the truth. Though I don’t mind speaking in front of an audience or walking into gatherings where I don’t know anyone. It’s never the big things I find embarrassing – it’s the tiny ones, like a mobile going off in the library or mispronouncing someone’s name. I would like to find out what the point is. Are some people just more prone to embarrassment, or is it a sign of being abnormally British?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘There was a great roar inside as if all the blood in me had just rushed to the front’: Bella Bathurst. Photograph: Pal Hansen for the ObserverIn the school of social sciences at Cardiff University, Professor Ray Crozier has made a lifelong study of social anxiety and the distinctions between embarrassment and shame. “It’s a tricky question,” he says, “but shame seems to involve the whole self, whereas embarrassment involves the self that you present to the world. In a social situation, embarrassment is usually something that’s been said or done that creates a difficulty for the group,” he continues. “It manifests in blushing and a pattern of reaction – one tends to lower the head, look away and then look back at the other person and then look away. Involuntary smiling seems also to be a distinctive feature, and then what’s called smile-control where we try to inhibit the smile.”Because it’s also something which is socially dictated, it can be collective or contagious. Crozier cites the example of English football hooligans – normal fans may find their behaviour embarrassing, but the people actually involved don’t.Crozier thinks embarrassment has its benefits. “Blushing is normal and can be socially very useful, because it signals a non-verbal form of apology. If I knock over goods in a shop or stand on someone’s foot, I can apologise for all those things but, if I blush, it shows people a) that I’m sorry and b) that I’m sincere, because you can’t control it.”Crozier sees people who dislike blushing so much it’s debilitating. “One man, he was around 40, and his marriage had broken up, was convinced he would blush the moment he approached a woman. He felt utterly constrained because of it.” Blushing can be socially very useful, because it signals a non-verbal form of apology For those who really, really hate blushing, there’s an even more extreme solution than staying home. Christer Drott is a Swedish vascular surgeon who once specialised in Endoscopic Thoracic Sympathectomy (ETS), a form of surgery in which the sympathetic nerves either side of the face are cut one side at a time. Over a 30-year period, Drott and his team operated on more than 3,000 patients. But ETS became increasingly controversial when a significant minority of patients found they’d exchanged blushing for extreme compensatory sweating. Now, though around 200 ETS operations are performed every year in the UK alone, it’s considered a last resort, to be used only when all counselling has been exhausted.Surgery doesn’t sound like a fun way to investigate blushing, so instead I call someone famous for his absolute refusal to be embarrassed. In 2008, while still president of Formula One’s governing body the FIA, Max Mosley sued the News of the World for libel when it accused him of taking part in a Nazi-themed orgy.The NoW’s assumption was that he would simply slink away ashamed. But Mosley took the paper on and won. “The anger at what they’d done outweighed the embarrassment. People tend to confuse being ashamed with being embarrassed, and they’re not the same thing. I wasn’t the slightest bit ashamed of what I’d done – it’s just sex – but I was still embarrassed, in the same way that if you were sitting on the loo and somebody came in. You’d be embarrassed, even though there’s nothing wrong in what you’re doing.”What about the family name. Do people try and embarrass him for that? Max’s father Oswald Mosley founded and led the British Union of Fascists, and his mother Diana Mitford spent much of the war imprisoned in Holloway for her pro-Nazi views. Mosley is still a name that carries a charge, so what was it like when Max was growing up? “Ohhh, people would have a go at me, but I didn’t mind about that because I knew how to respond. And also, people have a go at you having far less knowledge of the subject than you do. If someone was rude or insulting, I don’t think that makes one embarrassed – just annoyed or amused.”There’s something hugely likeable in Mosley’s approach. He knows where the pitfalls are, sees why others might be embarrassed, but just can’t think of a single reason why he should be so himself. Blushing, it seems, is just a visual guide to the self-censorship going on inside. And, like other forms of censorship, it reveals more than it hides.