Hometown: Chicago.The lineup: Julien Ehrlich (drums, vocals), Max Kakacek (guitar), Ziyad Asrar (keyboards), Will Miller (trumpet). The background: Look what just blew in from the windy city. Whitney, a new band comprising familiar faces: Max Kakacek, guitarist with Smith Westerns, a band once hailed round these parts for their glam influences and “sloppy precision”; and Julien Ehrlich, former drummer with “lo-fi yet luxuriant psych-soul” crew Unknown Mortal Orchestra. There are other musicians involved, including Ziyad Asrar from an outfit called Touching Voids (no, us neither), and apparently Jonathan Rado of Foxygen has had some input. They’ve actually been recording as a six-piece – two guitars, bass, keys, horns and drums – for an album which could be out as early as spring 2016. But it’s mainly Uhrlich and Kakacek’s show. Which means plenty of the former’s sweet soul falsetto and lashings of the latter’s sun-dappled guitar.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Not sure where they got the name, but it’s not la Houston or indeed US sitcom star Whitney Cummings. One story has it that it comes from Ehrlich’s first kiss, or even “an old-ass dude living alone” they dreamed up: “Whitney’s not living well,” they imagine. “He’s very sad and distraught, but he has good times, too.” They mainly write about breakups, but there’s one song about Ehrlich’s late grandad. Demos were initially recorded in a Wisconsin cabin, to give them the quality of lost recordings: think Bon Iver, with elements of folk and country, only given a Chicago soul makeover. If Curtis Mayfield fronted a stoner-rock band ... While the music is buoyant, lyrically we’re in bummed-out territory. “The subject matter isn’t happy, but it sounds really happy,” Ehrlich offers, helpfully. No Woman opens with Rhodes keyboards, some sad trumpet and a wistful voice that skirts the perimeters of folk, country and soul. “I’ve been going through a change,” sings Ehrlich in his disarming high register, like Kurt Wagner of Lambchop after being kicked in the cojones, capturing the stunned disquiet of those first moments of readjustment after – to quote the great Chicago bluesmen Hall & Oates – She’s Gone. “It’s about losing the love of your life and being thrown into an aimless journey because of it,” furthers Ehrlich, choking back tears (we made that last bit up for effect – he might have been laughing for all we know). No Matter Where We Go is light, lachrymal boogie: there is a brightness to this rock, a translucence, suggestive of transcendence. The video, tellingly, is very sunshine-y. Orange Juice sort of stumbled on this crushing blend 35 years ago, but that’s OK. Southern Nights is a cover of an old Allen Toussaint tune, and it augurs well for that debut album that it could be a Whitney original. We like the maximal use of “da-da-das” and the way, at one point, the guitar approximates the poignant ping and twang of a koto. Soul-country boogie from Chicago via Japan? Why wouldn’t you want to witness that first-hand? Well, you can, in London, at the Moth Club on 18 February. Dress code: old-ass hermit. The buzz: “The best band you haven’t heard yet.” The truth: Houston, we don’t have a problem. Most likely to: Appeal to 2 broke dudes. Least likely to: Drink orange juice. What to buy: No Woman and No Matter Where We Go are available on Secretly Canadian. File next to: Lambchop, Curtis Mayfield, Orange Juice, Bon Iver.Links: facebook.com/whitneychicago.Ones to watch: J F L E, Let’s Eat Grandma, White Wine, Nisennenmondai, Carrie Rodriguez. 