If you’ve read the name “Zoella” in this headline, and are rapidly scrolling your way to the comment section to ask: “Who cares?”, then you’ve already made a mistake. Even if the millionaire YouTuber’s bubblegum brand of bedroom-based blogs might not interest you, the impact of her work definitely should. Zoella has nearly 11 million subscribers – an army of teenage girls – and her influence over them is such that merely mentioning a product can boost its sales by 11,000%.This is exactly what happened last week, when the vlogger launched the Zoella Book Club in collaboration with WH Smith. In her first video of the partnership, she recommended eight books to her fans. Just a day later, according to The Bookseller, the sales of each had rocketed between 1,817% and 11,164%.YouTube star Zoella reaches 10m subscribers milestone That’s a lot of people reading a lot of books, and much has been made of the fact that the star is inspiring a younger generation to read. The trouble is, no one seems to care about exactly what it is they’re reading. Seven out of eight of the books Zoella recommends are modern teen romance novels. The protagonists are beautiful, straight, and – with one exception – white girls with unusual names (Cather, Cadence, Violet Markey) who find themselves head-over- heels with manic pixie dream boys. Zoella herself inadvertently acknowledges this homogeneity in her video. “This is a little bit different from the others because this book focuses solely on friendship,” she says of the only novel that is not a love story, confessing this had disappointed her at first.That’s not to say there’s anything wrong with any of these books – on their own. My favourite series growing up was Meg Cabot’s The Princess Diaries, and it’s extremely reductionist, even arguably sexist, to dismiss romance novels as somehow lesser than any other genre. But perhaps Zoella has a responsibility to expose her young fandom to more. Put together, these books teach young girls to care predominantly about boys – not education, not society, not history. This is something that doesn’t seem to have crossed Zoella’s mind. “Together they all look so amazing and pretty,” she said, discussing the pastel covers WH Smith has printed exclusively for her book club.Of course, beyond their cute and glittery exteriors, the stories Zoella has chosen are not without nuance. Romances can – and some of these do – explore important topics such as mental health, abuse and death. But Zoella’s chosen books insist on exploring, even solving, these problems with a traditional boy-meets-girl story that bears little relation to the troubles teenagers face in real life. For most socially anxious teen girls, it’s unlikely a cute boy will take them on to the red carpet to solve their woes For most depressed, socially anxious teen girls, it’s unlikely a cute boy will take them on a road trip, or into the forest, or on to the red carpet to solve all their woes. In All the Bright Places by Jennifer Niven – Zoella’s first choice – the depressed girl is taught to live again by an equally depressed boy, and although he (spoiler alert) kills himself in the end, he doesn’t do so without first setting up a beyond-the-grave treasure hunt of clues leading to a lyrical confession of his love for the protagonist.When WH Smith announced the book club in March, it revealed there were no restrictions on the books Zoella chose. “You might find older books alongside brand new titles, non-fiction next to novels,” it wrote. If you really wanted to teach teens about mental health, wouldn’t it be better to equip them with Eleanor Morgan’s Anxiety for Beginners? Conversely, if Zoella only wanted to explore romance, did every book have to feature a heteronormative couple? There are an abundance of LGBT young adult novels Zoella could have chosen, from established classics such as Nancy Garden’s Annie on my Mind to fellow YouTuber John Green’s Will Grayson, Will Grayson.No one can deny that Zoella influencing teens to read is a good thing. But, unlike when you or I pass on a book to a friend, she has a greater responsibility to consider the consequences. Studies have shown that fiction helps us to empathise with others, as well as shape our own identities. Zoella’s 11 million subscribers are not all straight, white, beautiful females with unusual names and cute boys conveniently living next door. But even if they were, wouldn’t it be great if Zoella taught them – and herself – about lives outside their own?