It wasn’t the constant stress of lying about the whereabouts of her husband, the relentless police interrogations or being vilified as a liar on newspaper front pages around the world that almost broke Anne Darwin.That moment came in the split second when she saw for herself the damage her five-year pretence that John had been swept out to sea in a canoe had done to her relationship with her two sons.“After the truth came out that we’d been living in Panama together, I continually wrote to Mark and Anthony to say: ‘I am so sorry. I really do love you.’“But they refused to see or talk to me. The first time I set eyes on them [afterwards] was at my trial when Mark was the first to testify against me. After he left the witness box, he only lifted his eyes fleetingly to meet mine.“I was totally shocked by how dark and full of anger they were. To see that was absolutely horrendous. It jolted me. I could easily have buckled then and there.”  Anne Darwin with her sons, Anthony and Mark. Photograph: The Mega AgencyApart from Canoe Widow, Anne has been called many names in her time – fraudster, consummate liar, wicked and selfish are just a few.Yet all those mean nothing compared with the label that has hurt her the most – bad mother.This is the main reason she is sitting across the table from me at a central London hotel today.Anne’s book, Out of My Depth, is not only a mea culpa and a bid to repay the costs of the massive three-day search and rescue operation for John after he “disappeared” in his canoe on March 21, 2002. It is also a love letter to her children.It is a book she says she wrote to help herself – and her sons – understand why she went along with their father’s plan to fake his own death – Reggie Perrin-style – and claim the life-insurance money.But while Anne paid for her crimes with a three-a-half-year prison sentence, the emotional debts left by betrayal are much harder to repay.While anyone who reads the book can see that John Darwin had all the traits of a narcissistic personality disorder – grandiose behaviour, fantasies of success, and lack of empathy – the burning question has always been what role did Anne, a previously devoted mother, play in all this?Was she a willing accomplice who happily went along with the deceit so the couple could escape their mounting debts of £700,000 to start an exotic new life in Panama?Or was she a woman whose failed defence of “marital coercion” should have been taken more seriously? Especially as in the nine years since her guilty verdict for 15 counts of fraud and money laundering, emotional abuse between spouses has become recognised as an offence in its own right.Certainly when you talk to Anne, it’s hard to tell whether her unflinching gaze is due to the fact she no longer has anything to hide or is a hint of the inner core of steel that enabled her to front the most notorious financial scam of the decade.Yet Anne insists the quiet confidence she has today is down to the grit she developed from being in jail where she was incarcerated alongside serial killers such as Rose West, and having to rebuild her life since her release in 2011.It wasn’t always that way, she says. Fifteen years ago, she would never have had the confidence to talk like this. John would have been glued to her side and he wouldn’t have let her get a word in edgewise.Indeed, the reason she says she gave in to John’s schemes in the first place was that she believed him when he told her she would never cope on her own, a belief he fostered by belittling her throughout their 37-year marriage.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anne and John Darwin in 2008. Photograph: PA WireAnne had been just 17 when they first started dating. John, self-assured, clever and already training to be a teacher, kept asking her out at the shop where she worked, and wouldn’t take no for answer. She was already in awe of him and he was already getting her to do what he wanted. “He always asked for sweets from the top shelf, knowing I would have to climb a ladder to get them.”But he could be entertaining and romantic and when he asked her to marry him at 21, she agreed.In 1975 and 1978, their two sons, Mark and Anthony, were born – and Anne loved motherhood. But while there were never any threats or physical violence, John became increasingly overbearing.“Early on, I knew that I would be fighting a losing battle if there was anything to discuss. John always had the counter-argument so there was no point disagreeing. He always got his way.”All this might have gone unnoticed but for John’s pathological need to impress, which led him to try to build an empire out of rental properties in run-down mining communities. When he borrowed too much and they could not find tenants to pay the rents, the debts spiralled out of control. When he started coming up with his outlandish scheme to fake his own death and claim the insurance, Anne said there was nothing she could say to deter him.So, given the choice between a man who manipulated her and the two sons she adored, why did she choose the husband? Why didn’t she walk away?Anne says: “Even as a child, I had low self-esteem. I was the kind of girl who wouldn’t put her hand up in class even if she knew the right answer.“I didn’t have the courage to do the right thing because I put all my trust in the man I married and could not perceive a life without him.”Perhaps if the boys been living at home that might have been different, says Anne. “By the time this happened, they were adults. They had set out on their own independent lives. We maybe saw each other every couple of months.”Clearly, she underestimated the effect it would have on the boys.“John could also be persuasive. He told me: ‘I’ll only need to vanish for a couple of weeks and we’ll have the money.’ It got out of control.“The deeper you get into these situations, the harder it is to get out. If I had any inkling it would have lasted more than few a weeks, there’s no way I could have gone along with it and put myself through years of torture. But once it was done, and he got me to lie that he’d disappeared, I couldn’t get out of it.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mark, right, and Anthony Darwin leaving court after giving evidence against their mother. Photograph: Christopher Furlong/Getty ImagesFor four years, Anne helped John to hide in an empty property they owned next to their seafront home Seaton Carew, County Durham. Finally, John hatched a scheme to get a passport in the name of a dead baby and they moved to South America to live more openly. Anne kept up the charade by telling the boys that as a widow, she needed to start a new life.But when a picture showing Anne and John together in a Panama estate agent’s office surfaced on the internet four years after he had “died”, the couple’s lies were exposed.Already John had returned to the UK to claim that he had amnesia. It left Anne to admit she had been carrying on this elaborate pretence all along.After the years of subterfuge, for Anne it was a relief to be able to be honest with her sons again. But for the boys, the betrayal was so sustained, and so humiliating, they publicly said they never wanted to see their mother again.In one shattering interview, Anthony said: “Dad told one nasty lie and disappeared … but she lied for six years. She kept on lying even when the evidence was so overwhelmingly against her. She dragged us through hell by forcing a court case. Her maternal instincts didn’t kick in for a second to protect us.”Even though their father had hatched the plan, Anne has committed the cardinal sin of failing them as a mother. Mark went one step further, saying: “The mother I had respected and loved all my life seemed to have been transformed into a hideous, lying bitch who had gone to outrageous lengths to con us.”To Anne, trying to survive in prison, reading those words was a moment of utter despair. “A friend tried to hide the story from me and kept it in her cell for me to read when I was ready. Finally the next day, I managed to look at it. It took me two or three goes to read it through. I thought there was no coming back.”A deeply religious woman with a strong Catholic faith that sustained her through her prison term, all Anne could do was pray for the boys to change their minds.Indeed, Anne has never been anything but honest about the reasons she went along with it. In the book she repeatedly refers to her “terrible, unforgivable lies” – and while she bitterly regrets what she did, she says she holds no one but herself responsible for going along with it.Then on 14 August 2008, Anne was called to the prison office where she was handed an envelope. She instantly recognised the writing as Mark’s. “I feared so much for what was in it. It wasn’t a long letter. It just said he was thinking of me and he would write soon.”It was the redemption she had craved. At this point in our interview the tears come and it takes a moment before she can continue. “Then in the next letter that came, he asked if he could come and see me.”Soon after, Anthony, too, promised to write, though it was several heart-stopping months before the letter finally arrived.“I remember sitting in the visiting room just watching Mark and his wife walking towards me. He was still angry. All I could say was: ‘I’m sorry.’ It was a long time before my apologies were accepted. But there was a short hug at the end – but at least it was something – some physical contact. I just hoped they would come back.”Yet it took therapy sessions for Anne to finally understand the hold John had over her.“I hadn’t realised how much John manipulated me until I was in prison. I had to see a psychologist to finally help me see things in a different light.“Until then I’d always had his voice in my head. Finally, when it faded away, I could then make decisions for myself and I realised that I didn’t have to depend on him. I could cope on my own. The last spark of love faded when I was removed from his influence.”The last time Anne spoke to John was just before his release from prison.“It was the phone call in which I told him that I didn’t want to live with him any more. He was still belligerent, saying we should still to be together. But I said: ‘No, I’m sorry. That’s not what I want.’ That was the first time I’d stood up to him and said no.”When, on her release in 2011, John sent Anne a photograph of herself branded with a copyright symbol – to imply she was still his property – she also took out an injunction, forbidding contact. She laughs when she recalls how it was John who finally divorced her on the grounds of “unreasonable behaviour”. Does she think he ever loved her? Anne says despite her protestations, she doubts he really did.Now all she knows about him is the newspaper stories that say he is living in the Philippines with a new wife. But his whereabouts are of no interest to her. Does she know if Mark and Anthony are in touch with him? “That’s a private matter for them.”Now Anne lives the independent life John told her she could never have. She has used the IT and business qualifications she earned in prison to get a job working for the RSPCA. Home is a small but comfortable flat in a pretty village just a few miles outside York.She and the boys are reconciled now. She has been on holidays with their families and expects to spend Christmas with them too. Last year for her 63rd birthday, she had the only thing she ever wanted – calls from both sons, wishing her a happy birthday.Set aside are two copies of the book for the boys, with a personal inscription. Anne admits she does not know if they will ever read them, but they are there if they need to understand more.She does not expect total forgiveness “because what I did was an unforgivable thing”.“But now I feel a sense of relief it’s all out there. There’s nothing else left for me to say. A line has been drawn under it. I want to live for today and look forward to tomorrow. I’m sure many people will wonder whether I really deserve a second chance. Mark and Anthony decided I did, and to me that’s the only thing that matters.”• Out of my Depth by Anne Darwin with David Leigh is published by Mirror Books for £8.99. To order a copy for £7.37, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call the Guardian Bookshop on 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.Anne Darwin will donate any proceeds from the book to the RNLI and the RSPCA.