It was a big day for news of the NBN, on pretty much every count except when and how we’ll get faster internet. Please, for the love of #auspol, let us get faster internet!Fairfax reported on Wednesday that Ziggy Switkowski, the NBN chairman, wilfully breached caretaker conventions during an election campaign. Following the AFP raids on Labor offices in May, he wrote an opinion piece for Fairfax in late May in which he made no apologies for calling in the feds.His comment piece was an apparent breach of civil service campaign impartiality and he was advised by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet not to go public. He did anyway.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Ziggy Switkowski’s opinion piece was ‘shameful breach’ of caretaker code, says Bill ShortenIn a letter to Labor’s Tony Burke, the department’s head, Martin Parkinson, said the caretaker conventions have no legal force – but the “apolitical and impartial nature of the public service” was a matter of the highest priority.Bill Shorten said that this was a “shameful breach” from “an otherwise respected businessman … Yet again NBN Co are doubling down on the cover-up, the denial”. He also pointed out that Switkowski was appointed chair by Turnbull, which he said left the PM in a bind.“On one hand if he doesn’t sack Dr Switkowski or take action, he’s condoning a breach of caretaker conventions. If he does, it confirms the game is up in terms of how NBN has been going in the last three years.”Mitch Fifield, the communications minister, had earlier answered questions on Adelaide radio about the NBN’s recruitment policy, following revelations that workers were being sought from Ireland. Fifield said individual subcontractors might have be seeking skills that they can’t “source domestically” but that are, it seems, rife in Ireland.“But NBN, for its part, are doing everything they possibly can to make sure that money is available to train Australians to work on the project.”Meanwhile, the executive appointed by Turnbull to run NBN Co appears likely to be called as a witness in legal actions under way in the US, flowing from one of the worst utility disasters in the country’s history.It’s a clear choice, says impartial commentator Turnbull took us back to where the campaign began with his talk of company tax cuts for businesses with turnovers between $2m and $10m in Swan, Perth. He said 15% of workers in Swan work for such businesses – significant because Labor opposes tax cuts for businesses with a turnover more than $2m, which it does not class as small biz.Turnbull seemed in quite high spirits that the process was under way, with pre-polls open as of Tuesday: “People are voting today. People voted yesterday.”Later, he said that he was backing the “wisdom” and “judgement” of the Australian people to elect the Coalition to another term. Except he didn’t say that exactly he said “the right choice, today and every day through to 2 July”.Essential Polling has the two-party preferred vote at Labor 51 to Coalition 49, compared with 50-50 last week.The only thing in the primary vote numbers that has changed is Labor is up one from 36% to 37%, off the back of independents/others, down one. “Others” do not include Xenophon who remains on 4% nationally.Shorten said he would “never be so arrogant” as to predict Labor would win: “Apart from any other reason, the election hasn’t been held.” That does seem to be the rub.Who’s afraid of the big bad treasurer?Scott Morrison’s really come into his own this campaign. It turns out the treasurer had a whole other skill set that we were previously unaware of, and that’s in demand this election: hyperbole. He has held another comical presser to unveil a new television commercial, “The Greening of Labor”: that’s right, another list of the mad things Labor would do to the economy in tandem with the Greens and the independents, because we’d gone a few days without a reminder.He said it was “hard-hitting” and “there for all to see”, and also a “truth campaign”, which is definitely not the same thing as a scare campaign. Guardian Australia’s Gabrielle Chan said it was the product of both parties’ figures being put in a blender and set to a rock’n’roll backing track. You be the judge:   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A TRUTH CAMPAIGN!The Mad Hatter, a figure in #auspol Twitter, made this comparison.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Shorten didn’t seem too bothered by Morrison’s material: “He’s proven he’s an even worse filmmaker than he is treasurer. That takes some beating.”Guardian Australia’s political editor, Lenore Taylor, pointed out that Morrison’s increasingly shrill tactics might yet come back to bite him. If there’s a chance the Coalition will have to govern with the help of independents – and there is! – it might be wise not to ramp up the rhetoric too high.And while we’re on new and unusual campaign ads, it would be remiss not to share this one, from Bob Katter. Not sure about his constituents, but it doesn’t seem to work for many of his political colleagues.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Further reading• Mining minister used mining company email address but claims “filter” stopped conflict (Crikey, $) The former Tasmanian mining minister used an email account at his mining company while holding the portfolio. It’s fine, he says: he had a filter to stop him seeing things he shouldn’t. Is this a Google Labs feature we don’t know about?• Australian Christian Lobby: the rise and fall of the religious right (The Conversation) “We see their spokespeople quoted in the papers and their ads on TV, but beyond that we know very little about how Australia’s lobby groups get what they want.” This series looks like it will be worth keeping an eye on.• Tickets are still available for the Guardian Live election panel discussions with Lenore Taylor and Katharine Murphy. Sydney’s event is from 7pm tonight at Giant Dwarf on Cleveland St, while Melbourne is slated for next Tuesday.Meanwhile, in the rest of the world ...A two-year-old boy has been taken by an alligator in the Seven Seas Lagoon near Disney’s Grand Floridian resort in Orlando, Florida. The father waded into the water to attempt to wrestle his son from the animal’s jaws but was unsuccessful. The family of five – on holiday from Nebraska – was “simply relaxing” on the beach at the time of the incident, said Sheriff Jerry Demings of Orange County.Never miss another catchup: If you’re reading this in the Guardian app, tap on ‘Australian election briefing’ at the top or bottom of this page, then tap on ‘Follow series’ to get an app notification as soon as the Campaign catchup publishes every afternoon.