If the world seems slightly edgier today, it’s probably because Vice has its own TV channel now. As of 6am, Viceland has set out to challenge everything you know about stuff you’re too old to care about in a borderline self-parodic way.Should you watch Viceland? Yes, you should, because it has some very good television programmes. Should you watch Viceland all the time? Oh, Christ, no, you should absolutely not, because Viceland is also studded with the sort of self-conscious yoof-hipster dreck that you hoped had died long ago. Here are six of the best shows you can expect, and six to throw into a metal dustbin and incinerate.WATCHBlack Market With Michael K Williams    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Viceland’s answer to Ross Kemp: Extreme World, this follows Omar from The Wire as he ventures deep into squalor. He meets joyriders, poachers, gunrunners, gamblers and drug addicts in this documentary series, filtering the experiences through the trauma of his own life. He’s a great, empathetic interview, and this works beautifully.Fuck That’s Delicious    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest If Viceland deserves to have a breakout star, it’s Action Bronson. And this deserves to be his breakout show. Fuck That’s Delicious follows Bronson as he travels the world rapping, cooking and eating. And he is truly engaging; simultaneously funny and knowledgable and honest. He’s the new Anthony Bourdain. Honestly, this show is amazing.GaycationGodawful title aside, Gaycation follows Ellen Page and Ian Daniel as they embark upon an LGBT travelogue. They meet people, they immerse themselves in the culture, they try to come to terms with the differing ways in which the gay community are treated in different regions. Gaycation is occasionally a little too worthy for its own good, but this is exactly the sort of show Viceland should be making. Dead Set on Life   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Viceland’s dirty secret is that when it calms down and stops trying so hard, it’s actually one of the very best food channels on TV. As well as That’s Delicious, there’s Dead Set on Life, which is worth as much time as you can possibly give it. Again, it’s a show about travelling the world and eating food, but chef Matty Matheson is charm personified. If Action Bronson is your fun uncle, Matheson is a giddy little boy who can’t believe his luck. A great show.Party LegendsAfter careful consideration, I have dragged Party Legends out of the “avoid” pile. For the longest time I was convinced that’s where it should live – the entire show is just celebrities telling a succession of crazy party stories, which is about as self-involved as you can get – but I’ve had a change of heart. This is for two reasons. The first is its impressive calibre of talent – Fred Armisen, Margaret Cho, Eric Andre and TJ Miller all appear – and the second is that their stories are animated, which stops things from getting too unbearably tedious. It’s Drunk History for hipsters, essentially.AVOIDNOISEY    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This is probably what you imagined when you heard about Viceland – endless slow-motion footage of people dancing, accompanied by tracts of mumbled faux-profundity by vapid gits in baseball caps. Watching it feels like accidentally wandering into a clothes shop you’re five years too young for and being hectored about EDM by a checkout girl who lists her profession as DJ on Twitter.Hate Thy NeighbourRemember on Seinfeld, where the themes of each episode would culminate in a brief standup set from Jerry Seinfeld? Hate Thy Neighbour is similar to that, except every episode is about meeting an extremist group of some description. It’s a show for people who enjoy their comedy interspersed with moments of tonally jarring racism. Which is nobody. This show is for nobody.Needles and PinsBecause Viceland is a cable television channel in the year 2016, it’s duty-bound to include a documentary series about tattoos. Only this is Viceland, so this one walks an uncomfortable line between too hip and too earnest. Still, if it takes off, Viceland might start making versions of other threadbare cable television formats. I wonder what its version of Storage Wars is going to be like.Weediquette   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I might have given Gaycation a pass for its terrible title, but I have to draw the line somewhere. And I’m doing it with Weediquette, because that’s barely even a pun. If this was a show about propulsion engines, I could live with Jetiquette. If it was about millinery, I could live with Hatiquette. But Weediquette doesn’t work on any level. It is the single most dismal name for a television show in the entire history of the medium. Still, it fills Viceland’s quota for cannabis coverage.Bong Appetit   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Except it doesn’t, because almost every other show on Viceland is about cannabis. You know when you’re at a party, and there’s someone there who’s a vegetarian or likes golf or whatever, and you ask them about it because you don’t know what else to talk about, and they drone on and on about why meat is bad or golf is good or whatever, and then they get out their phone and start backing up their pointless drone with evidence, and you want to go upstairs and hit the side of your head on a basin until you die? Viceland is this, but about pot. It’s the Discovery Shed of pot.Watch Viceland on SKY Channel 153 and Now TV.