Is there anyone who thinks Snap Inc, the firm behind Snapchat, was justified in issuing shares with zero voting rights? To most minds, Snap’s innovation undermined the whole concept of a shareholding carrying rights of ownership. If a shareholder can’t vote on corporate resolutions, like the appointment of directors and auditors and the payment of dividends, they’ve just bought a ticket to a show. They may still share in the company’s economic success or failure, but shareholding is meant to be a wider idea.Sir Martin Sorrell is the man with the case for defence. “Perhaps surprisingly, corporate structures that seem to offend customary good corporate governance may deliver better long-term results,” declared the chief executive of advertising giant WPP last week.Sorrell gave examples of the companies he had in mind. Rupert Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox; Comcast, the US cable company with Brian Roberts at the helm; Mark Zuckerberg’s creation, Facebook; and Sergey Brin and Larry Page’s Google. Evan Spiegel at Snap, too, might “provide the confidence and stability needed to take the appropriate level of risk”, said Sorrell.It’s an impressive list, even if it is too early to tell if Snap – five years old and loss-making, despite its startling $28bn valuation in last week’s flotation – is tomorrow’s Facebook or just today’s fad. But it is a list compiled without rigour. One could equally construct a line-up of horror stories involving companies with dominant shareholders and unconventional governance.Robert Maxwell’s Mirror Group and Asil Nadir’s Polly Peck were the great financial scandals of the early 1990s that prompted the City of London to get serious about good governance for the first time. In more recent years, the FTSE 100 index has seen ENRC, straight out of Kazakhstan and “more Soviet than City”, according to one non-executive director who was ejected from the boardroom as the dominant shareholders asserted control. Or try Bumi, a Nat Rothschild mining creation that descended into shambles and infighting in Indonesia.The truth is that one could point to examples of both triumph and failure at “unconventional” companies.In a general sense, it’s easy to understand that a dominant shareholder could be more willing to take a long-term view of investment. The classic example is Associated British Foods, a FTSE 100 firm but family controlled, which quietly turned its once-small retailing business into the phenomenon that is Primark. Then again, there’s Sports Direct, where long-term investment seems to mean whatever takes Mike Ashley’s fancy. Last week it was Agent Provocateur; next week it could be anything.But the timing of Sorrell’s remarks on the day after Snap’s arrival on the New York Stock Exchange suggest something else: that he thinks disenfranchising shareholders is OK because it encourages risk-taking and creates more wealth for all. The argument could be summed up another way: chief executives should be accountable only to themselves, and the little folk should accept what’s good for them.It’s complete nonsense. It’s a formula for crony capitalism in which insiders can do as they wish, and pay themselves what they want, regardless of outcomes. Such a system has no checks or balances. Shareholders’ power to protest about how the assets are managed is swept under the carpet. Without votes, there is no power. It is the cult of the superman chief executive, whose judgment on the “appropriate level of risk”, as Sorrell puts it, must be trusted absolutely.It is extraordinary that the US – land of “no taxation without representation” – has embraced shares with restricted or zero votes. A shareholding democracy offers imperfect protections against boardroom abuse, but turning the dial in the other direction is a recipe for trouble.Maybe Sorrell is jealous. He was paid £70m last year but the sums will fall eventually because his long-term pay scheme had to be reined in after 60% of WPP shareholders voted against it in 2012. Life is much easier when shareholders are reduced to being members of a fan club.PPI deadline will benefit only banksFew things add up in the payment protection insurance mis-selling scandal. The first estimate of the scale of the problem was put at £4.5bn. The first provision Lloyds Banking Group took in 2011 of £3.2bn was intended to “draw a line” under the matter. The reality? The industry’s bill has reached £40bn and Lloyds’s bill is a staggering £17bn.It is little wonder there has been so much imprecision. There appear to have been too few real numbers about the number of policies sold and even fewer clues as to how many were mis-sold. PPI, after all, need not have been a scandal. Sold alongside loans and credit cards with a view to ensuring customers could keep up repayments after sudden loss of income (through illness, say) PPI should have provided a sensible safety net for customers.Except it didn’t. Banks realised it was a moneyspinner. The Financial Conduct Authority has now disclosed that 64m PPI policies were sold to about 30m consumers between 1990 and 2010. Estimates vary as to how much cash it brought through the door. One from 2014 reckons banks received £44bn in premiums from 45m policies. The FCA calculates that 13m claims have been made – a total which must rise, given the vast number of policies sold.Which is why it is alarming that the FCA has decided that enough is enough. As it announced a deadline of 29 August 2019 for claims, the City regulator said this would prompt the holdouts to take action.The decision to impose a deadline is far more likely to benefit the big banks than their customers. The industry’s intransigence in paying out has spawned a vast claims industry: thousands of people are employed by banks to process claims in part fuelled by claims-management companies, which hassle on customers’ behalf, and add to costs. MoneySavingExpert.com reckons that in half of all cases in the last 12 months where a PPI claim has been rejected by a bank but then taken to the independent ombudsman, the rejection had been overturned.Everything’s relative for HoggRead these words Andrew Tyrie, chair of the Treasury select committee, uttered some characteristically choice words last week when he took evidence from Charlotte Hogg, a newly appointed deputy governor of the Bank of England. “I have over the years got used to doing business with people who are the sons and daughters of people I used to work with. But I think it’s a first where I can say that I used to have lunch with your grandfather in the members’ dining room.”Her grandfather was the late Quintin Hogg, second viscount Hailsham. Her father is Douglas, the third Viscount Hailsham and former Conservative MP and minister. Her mother Sarah – Baroness Hogg – is a former journalist and was head of John Major’s policy unit.Tyrie’s words tell us that Charlotte Hogg is part of the establishment. Do those words also show that public life in the UK is all too cosy? Or do they show that Hogg has the confidence to take on the big boys? Let’s hope it’s the latter.