With tea dresses and high-waist denim dominating British women’s wardrobes for the past decade, it might seem paradoxical to put a date on the enthusiasm for vintage clothing. But in the week when the pioneering British vintage company Rokit celebrates its 30th anniversary, for the first time it seems that trends on the catwalk and in vintagewear have converged.It is a happy accident that Rokit’s anniversary has fallen at the same time as two looks currently dominate both menswear and womenswear: a new Gucci’s 1970s eccentricity and the sportswear referencing of design collective Vetements.“For the first time we are seeing vintagewear set the agenda,” says Eibhleann McMahon, the head of creative at Rokit. “The catwalk doesn’t determine fashion, and vintage doesn’t determine fashion, but both are having an influence on each other.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fashion historian and writer Amber Jane Butchart at London Fashion Week Photograph: Stefan Wermuth/ReutersWhile Parisian brand Vetements might reference a more current look – “sportswear”, “oversized” and “1990s” being the buzzwords – the Gucci look has been in-store for years, but is only now mirroring what vintage shops have been selling for some time.“The only difference,” explains McMahon, “is that rather than going the whole hog, people are buying a key 1970s piece – a shirt or trousers – to slot into a pre-existing outfit.”For many customers with a keen eye on style rather than fashion, vintage shops have been a primary source for one-off pieces.Amber Jane Butchart, a fashion historian who is working on a BBC Radio 4 documentary on vintage clothes, thinks the 2000s marked a key time for what she calls “vintage acceptance”, when the look shifted from alternative to mainstream.She cites Winona Ryder in vintage Pauline Trigére at the Oscars in 2000 and Julia Roberts in vintage Valentino in 2001 as pivotal moments. “Seeing A-list stars on the red carpet helped to transition secondhand clothes into vintage style,” says Butchart. Since then, Kate Moss and Alexa Chung have championed vintagewear, bolstering the look in the UK.William Vintage, a high-end supplier, is a case in point. Huge in the 2000s, it has experienced a resurgence thanks to Amal Clooney, its current muse, who regularly defers to vintage – she recently wore a William Vintage cream Balenciaga coat from 1964 to meet the Pope in Rome.Rokit opened in Camden, north London, in 1986. Initially a market stall, it now has four shops and, arguably, a legacy that saw vintage shops selling old, used and pre-worn clothes grow from alternative to destination stores. Early sales relied on denim, although interest has been consistently high in the past 30 years, with modern brands attempting to ape vintage styles from the last four decades. “Vintage denim collectors are obsessed with patina – the look of age,” explains Butchart. “This manifested itself in fashion in ‘distressed’ jeans created to look like they’ve already been worn. This reached extremes with high-contrast white face, and ready-ripped jeans or cut-off shorts.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gucci Resort show, London Photograph: Pixelformula/REX/Shutterstock​The most sought-after pieces now at Rokit and Beyond Retro are currently bombers, military jackets, patchwork, denim and Champion sportswear, all of which are heavily referenced in Vetements. “People are looking for archetypal versions of what is in fashion now,” said Butchart.Beyond Retro’s vintage clothing buyer, Scarlett Eden, agrees: “Branded sportswear is getting bigger and bigger,” she says, crediting the look to designers such as the Russian Gosha Rubchinskiy.​Before this, vintage shops relied more on pockets of scene-based fashion. McMahon describes “all-black tailoring, rock’n’roll, post-war womenswear” as some of the more recent trends. But as we move into an age of Blitz Spirit fatigue, helped perhaps by the mainstreaming of these trends (with shops such as Joy and Oliver Bonas jumping on the bandwagon with their takes on pseudo-vintage – modern tea dresses ad nauseum), people are looking for a more authentic look. Butchart thinks this reversal has helped to extend the longevity of vintage. “Buying new products that have been made to look old or used is something of a fashion paradox that has been bolstered by the popularity of vintage.” In the light of this, it seems odd that vintage fashion is not experiencing a resurgence saleswise – on the contrary, as the trend for 1940s printed pieces spiked last decade and the 1990s saw increased demand for 60s and 70s modwear with the Britpop movement, “stock is now decreasing – obviously”, explains McMahon.In a bid, perhaps, to rebrand themselves, some vintage shops have taken to “remodelling” pieces – using old fabrics to create new items. Still, while sales have plateaued, the vintage customer-base has expanded. Vintage shops were predominantly the preserve of women. Now, bolstered by these newer trends, it’s half men and half women.“Now that we have customers looking for a specific thing, people are coming in for the first time,” says McMahon. “People don’t see it as dead people’s clothes any more.”