One of the most famous and widely reproduced paintings of the Victorian era – Flaming June, a searingly colourful image of a beautiful young woman drugged into sleep by the simmering heat of midsummer – is to be loaned back to the London studio where it was created in 1895.“It is the one painting by Leighton that every visitor to the house knows and asks after – and now we will be able to show it for the first time,” said Daniel Robbins, curator of the Leighton House museum, a spectacular Moorish fantasy house and studio in Kensington designed and built for the artist Frederic (later Lord) Leighton, and where he lived and worked until his death in 1896.The museum’s research into the painting, which is well known due to its many reproductions, has established that it was first owned by the magazine Graphic, whose publishers bought it so they could create a high-quality reproduction to give away as a Christmas gift. The following year it was set in Graphic’s office window so it could be seen as Leighton’s funeral procession to St Paul’s Cathedral passed by.The public has loved the painting more than did the Victorian critics, who found the pose – taken from Michaelangelo’s sculpture Night – peculiar and the woman’s thigh bizarrely long. “Flaming June now seems to us the unquestioned masterpiece in this line, and is now by far the most famous,” Robbins said. “But at the time of the exhibition it was not the most admired.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Leighton’s recently completed works, including Flaming June and The Maid with the Golden Hair, photographed in his studio in 1895. Photograph: Bedford Lemere/The Historic England Archive, HiIn the early 20th century, when Victorian art was already falling out of fashion, Samuel Courtauld, the millionaire collector and founder of the Courtauld Institute, called it “the most wonderful painting in existence”.It was on loan to the Ashmolean in Oxford in the early 1900s, but vanished for decades before being rediscovered in the early 1960s, boxed in over a chimney in a house in Battersea. The composer Andrew Lloyd Webber, whose own collecting helped revive serious interest in the art of the period, never forgave his grandmother for refusing to lend him £50 to buy it when he saw it soon afterwards in a shop on the Kings Road. “I will not have Victorian junk in my flat,” she told him.Robbins has borrowed from private and public collections, including the Metropolitan in New York, to reassemble the lineup seen in a photograph taken in Leighton’s studio in 1895. The photograph records the occasion when the public – including Princess Alexandra and two of her daughters – was invited in for one day to admire the paintings before the hurly-burly of a crowded Royal Academy show.By then the painter knew he was living on borrowed time. The pictures were his last submission to the annual Royal Academy exhibition, and he was too ill to attend the annual dinner, asking his fellow artist John Everett Millais to deliver his planned speech. He died the following January, a day after he was awarded a hereditary peerage – the first to a painter – in the New Year’s honours list.Robbins hopes to get permission from the owners to recreate the line of paintings exactly as in the photograph, on the original easels, at least for a few hours before the paintings are moved to the climate-controlled security of the temporary exhibition gallery. Flaming June will return to its permanent home, the Museo de Arte de Ponce in Puerto Rico, in the autumn. The Ponce museum bought it in 1963, adding to a collection left by the country’s former governor Luis A Ferré.The Ponce museum’s director, Alejandra Peña, said they were lending one of their greatest treasures. “Many of our visitors come to Ponce to see Flaming June, and we agree to loan the painting rarely and only in extraordinary circumstances. This project is clearly a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, and our museum is happy to collaborate with Leighton House to organise exhibitions in London and in Ponce that will surely heighten Leighton’s standing and international reputation.”Robbins, gazing at the sodden garden during one of the wettest Junes on record, said: “It will be good to get a bit of blazing sunlight back in here.” Flaming June: A Masterpiece Comes Home , Leighton House museum, November 4 2016 - April 2 2017. 