It’s a sign of the chasm between television and film that when a film has a female lead, or is a story about the lives of women, it is still considered both a curiosity and a potential risk. It’s hard to imagine a fiasco as daft as the one surrounding the Ghostbusters reboot taking place had it been a series. Present-day television is more democratic and open to new ideas, and, as a result, this year’s glut of nuanced and complex stories about women has been astounding. While complicated masculinity had its own champions – Grayson Perry: All Man, Louis Theroux’s documentary about alcoholism, the oddball despair of Flowers – women have been on the frontline of the year’s most innovative shows, as creators and stars, and often both at the same time.A six-part comedy about self-loathing and loss made for an unlikely most likeable show, but Fleabag was a disarming victory for a damaged, disturbing fable. The titular Fleabag grimly destroys the people around her as if compelled to do so by an unknown force; we viewers are taken in as her confidantes and shown sex, family and friendship through a deadened, grieving heart. The anti-heroine has been around for a long time, but writer and star Phoebe Waller-Bridge wove new threads through that tapestry and told a version of young female life that incorporated truths about promiscuity, loneliness and never feeling good enough. Remarkably, it was also very funny – you can charge what you like in a guinea-pig-themed cafe, apparently – not least in showing the always-lovely Olivia Colman as a thoroughly nasty piece of work.There’s been a lot of humour in despair throughout the year, which certainly feels appropriate for 2016. “Troubled” women can be overused to tepid effect, but 2016 saw traditionally dramatic areas such as mental illness and mourning turned into witty and inventive comedies. Netflix’s Lady Dynamite, starring cult standup Maria Bamford, told a version of her hospitalisation for a bipolar disorder and subsequent return to showbiz with a surreal elegance. Meanwhile, Tig Notaro’s One Mississipi found the blackest of humour in the similarly semi-autobiographical tale of Notaro’s return to her home town after brutal cancer treatment and the death of her mother. Transparent, though stretching the credulity of its “comedy” billing, continued to deliver the extraordinary complexity it established over its first two seasons. While Maura explored the shifting boundaries of her identity, the rest of the cast addressed their own limitations, and between Rabbi Raquel’s wavering faith and Shelly’s transformative one-woman show – which gave Alanis Morissette’s 90s hit Hand In My Pocket a new lease of life – it was the kind of sucker-punch TV that lingers in your mind and your heart.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jeffrey Tambor in Transparent. Photograph: Jennifer Clasen/AmazonMaura and Shelly’s tussle over a maternal role was one of many examples of motherhood at the centre of the story. Better Things, written by and starring Pamela Adlon, and co-created by Louis CK, dramatised Adlon’s life as the single mother of three young girls, and her all-female household – with a scene-stealing, over-the-top turn from Celia Imrie as the dotty English grandmother – was beautifully touching and frank. The pilot for Motherland, by Sharon Horgan and Graham Linehan, explored a scabrous world of competitive middle-class parenting and has been deservedly picked up for a full run next year. While it gave us a fine young girl superhero in Eleven, Stranger Things was ultimately driven by a mother’s hunt for her missing son, with Winona Ryder reclaiming a little of her iconic past as the frantic, fairy-light-loving Joyce Byers. The Scandi-noir-esque new series of The Missing zipped through a breathtakingly intricate plot of abduction and war crimes flanked by a story of motherly love and determination. We even got to see the reality of balancing a family life with a demanding career in American Crime Story: The People vs OJ Simpson, in which Sarah Paulson’s Marcia Clark was given the fleshed-out humanity she has long deserved.The 50 best TV shows of 2016: No 4 Happy Valley In the big blockbusters, too, female characters were given equal billing. Having long been accused of treating its women with disdain – a not unjustified complaint, given its earlier lackadaisical attitude to rape scenes – Game of Thrones spent much of this season leading its female characters to victory: Arya over the waif; Daenerys over the slavers; Sansa over Ramsay Bolton and Cersei over everyone (she had a lot of revenge to do). Westworld, a parable of robots used and abused by humanity as they begin to reach their own sentience, wrapped its sense of justice up in Dolores, the sweet prairie girl waking from a nightmare, and Maeve, the bloodthirsty madam who breaks out of the matrix.But there is one woman on whose shoulders all the world’s troubles hung this year: Catherine Cawood. Happy Valley’s long-suffering sergeant was implicated in a murder, helped to track down a serial killer as well as a bent and murderous detective, while also protecting her grandson from the spitting rage of his possessive rapist father, Tommy Lee Royce, and saving her sister from a relapse into addiction. And with British succinctness, she did it all in six episodes, and still had time to get drunk. To fix Britain’s messy political landscape, here’s what I propose: Cawood for PM, 2020. It’s the only way.