It sounds as if a small and very distressed piglet is being horribly tortured just a few yards away. But this is no porcine cry for help, but the call of a water rail, hidden deep inside the densest reedbed. It’s a sound I hear almost every time I visit a bird reserve here on the Avalon Marshes; yet I can count the times I have actually seen a water rail in Somerset on the fingers of one hand.So I was pleasantly surprised when, on a visit to the new Tor View hide at RSPB Ham Wall, someone spotted one walking across the flattened reeds just below the hide window. I say “walking across” but in the second it took me to focus my binoculars the rail had crept beneath a thick pile of reeds and simply vanished.We did catch a couple more brief and unsatisfactory glimpses: just enough for my children to spot the red, dagger-like bill and white flash beneath the cocked tail, before the bird disappeared once more into the sanctuary of the reedbed.The next morning I made a dawn visit to the same hide, with my old colleagues Ruth and Chris. It was a typical autumn morning, with Glastonbury Tor just about visible through the mist: not the most promising weather conditions for birding.Yet we were greeted by a surprisingly varied chorus of birdsong, with Cetti’s warblers and chiffchaffs joining the more usual robins and wrens. Bearded tits were “pinging” in the distance like demented cash registers, but try as we might, we couldn’t see them.Then, just below us, there was a sudden movement: the water rail was there again. But instead of doing its usual vanishing trick, this time it seemed happy to poke about on the surface of the reeds, giving us incredible views of this secretive little bird.The first thing you notice about water rails is how small they are: only a shade shorter than their relative the moorhen, but less than half that bird’s weight. The proverb “thin as a rail” comes to mind. This is appropriate, because the water rail does have an extraordinarily slender body, laterally compressed to make it easier for the bird to squeeze between vertical stands of reeds.Another noticeable thing about water rails is their colour. The combination of steel-grey body, mottled black and chestnut back and wings, black-and-white striped flanks and that blood-red bill are really pleasing, especially when you get a view like this – which is once in a blue moon.But for me, it was the bird’s feet that really stood out: long, slender toes, which allowed the rail to walk across the flattened reeds; and once, memorably, to skitter across some duckweed-covered water without, it seemed, even getting wet.As I watched the rail going quietly about its business, completely unaware of our presence, I felt a sense of wonder and privilege. Wonder, that water rails live such a strange life, rarely emerging from their claustrophobic world; hardly ever even seeing the horizon. And privilege, that we were able to watch this little bird on a misty autumn morning here on the Somerset Levels, simply doing what water rails do. For no matter how often you visit a particular place, and how familiar you think you are with its birds, they always have the power to surprise you.•New work by George Boorujy will be on show from 6 November to 20 December at the PPOW Gallery, New York.