You have to have a cheeseboard at Christmas. It’s the law, along with turkey, sherry and sprouts, even if you don’t like them. But no one expects you to put much effort into it; days before Santa’s due, many of us reach for a supermarket selection. “Stilton?” we say, squinting at the packaging. “Check. Cheddar? Check. Something grey that might be brie? That’ll do.”It doesn’t have to be this way. Across Britain, small producers are making cheeses that change from day to day and season to season, using milk that’s still warm from the udder. At Barwheys Dairy near the Firth of Clyde, Tricia Bey works wonders with just 35 pedigree Ayrshire cattle, plus a furry “pest control officer” called Tiger; at Fen Farm in Suffolk, herb-heavy pastures feed Jonny Crickmore’s 160 Montbéliardes, which he handpicked on a tour of the French Alps.Some artisan cheesemakers are farmers who have been encouraged to branch out by the collapse in milk prices; others are foodies eager to be part of a British cuisine revival. Their quirky and fragrant creations are more widely available than ever, either from their own online shops or via specialist retailers such as Neal’s Yard Dairy.“I like the idea of Burt’s Cheese,” says Adam Robery, who supplies London restaurants with everything from British cheddar to Italian blues. “Claire Burt is a small independent cheesemaker in Cheshire who makes half a dozen types of cheeses, such as the semi-soft Burt’s Blue and Drunken Burt, whose rind is washed in cider. They are all handmade so they change slightly from batch to batch. But they’re all made with skill and love.”These cheeses are more expensive than Cathedral City, but infinitely more interesting. “Britain has a better selection of cheeses than the French now,” says Mark Hartstone, whose Dorset restaurant La Fosse is renowned for its cheeseboard. “Many of them beat the French in blind tastings.”All of which means that, with a little work, you can build a British cheeseboard to tempt anyone. And it really is only a little. “I’d rather have three or four really nice, big pieces of cheese than nine or 10 little bits that will just dry out,” says restaurateur-turned-cheesemonger Rhuaridh Buchanan. Robery’s perfect number is five or six. Even Emmanuel Landré, who picks cheeses for the two Michelin-starred Le Gavroche, wouldn’t dream of replicating its 50-strong selection at home. “I’d go for four or five,” he says. Ideally, buy some cow’s cheese, some sheep’s and some goat’s. That’s how you make a balanced cheeseboard Within those three, four, five or six, however, you want to mix it up as much as possible. As Robery puts it, “you want a hard, a soft, a blue and a washed-rind. Ideally, there’ll be something made with cow’s cheese, something with sheep’s, and something with goat’s. That’s how you make a balanced cheeseboard.”So let’s get balancing.Something hardUnless you’re spending Christmas alone, you’ll have to buy cheddar or something very similar. For many people, it’s the only cheese that isn’t strange or frightening.In the second world war, the government was so worried it would not be able to feed the populace that it tried to force all cheesemakers to churn out robust, long-lasting hard cheese. More than 70 years on, cheddar still accounts for more than half of all UK cheese sales, though most no longer comes from the Somerset village that gave it its name. What a shame that so much of it is bland, harsh or sometimes both.But there are great cheddar-style cheeses. At Le Gavroche, Landré swears by a Cornish cheddar that’s matured for five years rather than the usual three to 15 months. “You will die for it,” he tells me. “You will go down on your knees.” Though you’ll have to go down on your knees at his restaurant, which has an exclusive deal with the maker. He also rates Quicke’s Vintage, matured for two years in Devon (order online). Milk that has not been heat-treated has more character Patricia Michelson of the cheesemonger La Fromagerie in London is a fan of Lincolnshire Poacher Double Barrel, made with unpasteurised milk from a herd of 230 holstein friesians. “Matured for between two and three years,” she says, “it has a stunning, savoury richness – like a cross between cheddar and an aged gruyère.”But the one that gets most experts salivating is Barwheys, made from the unpasteurised milk of pedigree Ayrshire cattle, wrapped in cotton cheesecloth and matured for 10-24 months. It has been in production since only 2010, but has already won prizes as well as many fans. “It’s rich, full-bodied and very complex,” says Ros Windsor, MD of Britain’s oldest cheesemonger, Paxton & Whitfield.Why use “raw” milk when pasteurisation kills dangerous bacteria such as salmonella, E coli and listeria? Many farmers say that, if proper practices are followed, the risks are exaggerated, and that milk that has not been heat-treated has more character. As Andy Swinscoe of Yorkshire cheesemonger Courtyard Dairy puts it: “Unpasteurised cheeses champion the small-scale, farmhouse side of cheesemaking. You can’t make one on a big scale. You need to be in control of your milking practice. It creates a greater depth of flavour, and makes it unique to your farm.”If there’s room on your board for another hard cheese, you’ll struggle to beat the parmesan-style Lord of the Hundreds, made with unpasteurised ewe’s milk by the Traditional Cheese Dairy in East Sussex. “It’s a lovely, nutty cheese with a kind of caramel sweetness,” says food writer Patrick McGuigan. “Sheep’s milk cheese is very sweet and very rich, with a high fat and protein content. This one’s a corker.”“It’s really good in canapes,” Buchanan adds. “Lovely with a glass of fizz. And, because it’s made with vegetarian rennet, it’s suitable for vegetarians.” (Rennet, if you’re wondering, is what cheesemakers use to separate milk into solid curds and liquid whey. It traditionally comes from the stomachs of calves, lambs or goat kids. Unless stated otherwise, this is what’s used in all the cheeses mentioned here.)Lovers of crumblier “territorial” varieties such as lancashire, cheshire, wensleydale and caerphilly should check out Kirkham’s Lancashire, made with raw cow’s milk near Preston. Or, north of the border, there’s Anster, from the St Andrews Farmhouse Cheese Company, whose holstein friesians graze the salty grasses beside the Firth of Forth. Another raw-milk cheese, “it’s fresh, zesty and goes really well with Christmas cake,” Swinscoe says.Try also Montgomery, Westcombe, Hafod and St Andrews (all cheddar or cheddar-ish); Dorset Red (similar but smoked, coloured and veggie-friendly); Lancashire Bomb (veggie lancashire); Old Winchester (gouda-style vegetarian); Berkswell (parmesan-style ewe’s milk) and Spenwood (pecorino-style, veggie-friendly ewe’s milk).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Clockwise from top: Driftwood, Colston Bassett stilton, Quicke’s Vintage cheddar. Stylist: Olivia Bennett. Special thanks torusticcheese.co.uk. Post-production: Darkroom Digital Photograph: Patricia Niven for the GuardianSomething blueAgain there’s a traditional choice, and that’s stilton. Just six dairies, in Derbyshire, Nottinghamshire and Leicestershire, are licensed to make this “protected name” cheese, using only pasteurised cow’s milk. They still turn out more than a million cheeses a year. Windsor says you should take care when buying from supermarkets, because “it’s often kept almost at freezing point for most of its life, which means it never develops that nice, creamy texture or savoury note”. Michelson, however, has good words for the supermarket-stocked Cropwell Bishop. “It has a bigger profile than other stiltons, with the blue veining giving minerality and bite.” There are both vegetarian and traditional versions.A number of upstarts produce something very similar, and arguably more interesting, using raw milk. Best known is Stichelton, made on the Welbeck Estate in Nottinghamshire (also home to the School of Artisan Food, whose cheese-making courses have helped to transform the British industry). “It’s a stilton,” Buchanan says, “but they’re not allowed to call it that.” The milk from the estate farm is pumped straight from the milking parlour, and turned into just 8,000 cheeses a year.Farther afield, Swinscoe and Buchanan love Young Buck, made in Northern Ireland by Michael Thomson, a graduate of the School of Artisan Food. Based in Newtownards, County Down, and launched with the help of crowdfunding, Thomson uses raw milk from a single herd and works to a 1919 recipe, to make what Swinscoe calls a “really interesting cheese. It’s moister than traditional stilton and not as aggressively blue, but it has a rich, complex flavour.”And if you’d prefer something completely different? Buchanan recommends Perl Las, which won a gold at the 2015 World Cheese Awards. It comes from Caws Cenarth, a family business in Carmarthenshire. “It’s a beautiful cheese, with a nice peppery bite to it,” says Buchanan. Made with pasteurised cow’s milk, it’s suitable for vegetarians. Something sweet and nutty like peanut brittle goes well with a lot of cheeses, especially a blue Meanwhile, McGuigan suggests replacing the entire cheeseboard with a piece of Cornish Blue and “some great accompaniments”. Made in Cornwall with vegetarian rennet and cow’s milk, this mild, creamy cheese is designed to be eaten young and won “people’s choice” at the 2016 Great British Cheese Awards. “It’s lighter than stilton and has a nice minerality,” McGuigan says. “You could have it with a drizzle of honey and some toasted hazelnuts – or even fudge. Something sweet and nutty like peanut brittle goes well with a lot of cheeses, especially a blue.”If that sounds high risk, everyone loves crackers (apart from Landré, who, as a Frenchman, can’t resist a baguette). Rather than the usual Jacob’s or Carr’s Water Biscuits, try Peter’s Yard, which has a wide and delicious range of Swedish-style sourdough crispbreads.Try also Cote Hill Blue (soft, veggie-friendly), Beauvale (gorgonzola-style), Mere Park Blue (ewe’s milk, veggie-friendly), Colston Bassett stilton.Something softOn a classic, French-inspired board, this would be something like brie, where the cheese is encouraged to grow a downy rind whose mould breaks down the fats and proteins inside. Great “bloomy-rind” or “mould-ripened” British cheeses include Hampshire Cheeses’ camembert-style Tunworth, made with pasteurised cow’s milk; but today’s star is Baron Bigod, made with unpasteurised Montbéliarde cow’s milk at Fen Farm Dairy in Suffolk. “It’s what will be on my cheeseboard this year,” says Swinscoe. “It’s made to a traditional brie de meaux recipe, which is very difficult. Many modern bries are creamy but not that complex. This has a mushroomy punchiness.”Soft cheeses are also a chance to get some goat on the board. Golden Cross from Greenacres Farm in East Sussex is a firm favourite, inspired by France’s Sainte Maure. “It’s got a dense, slightly puttyish texture – in a good way,” Buchanan says. “There’s a herbaceous, almost grassy flavour. I like it because it doesn’t taste as if the billy goat just ran all over it. It’s a bit more subtle.”Made with milk from the farm’s 220 goats, Golden Cross has a spectacular dark coating of ash, as does one of Robery’s favourites, the “lemony and citrussy” Driftwood from Somerset’s White Lake Cheese. Both use raw milk and vegetarian rennet.Try also Stoney Cross (cow’s milk, vegetarian rennet, similar to a tomme de savoie), St Jude (cow’s milk, St Marcellin-style), Pavé Cobble from White Lake Cheese (goat’s cheese, vegetarian rennet).Something stinkyOr, to use the technical term, washed-rind cheese. Wetting cheese with brine or booze as it matures encourages flavour-enhancing bacteria, a colourful (usually orange or red) rind and an occasionally overpowering pong. Hard continental types include gruyère, comté and raclette; soft include époisses de bourgogne, munster, reblochon and taleggio.You’ve probably heard of Stinking Bishop, a pasteurised and veggie-friendly cow’s milk cheese from Charles Martell in Gloucestershire. Created in 1994, it’s washed in perry made from local pears. Newer kids on the block include Hampshire Cheeses’ Winslade, modelled on the Alpine Vacherin Mont d’Or, a fatty cow’s milk cheese. “It’s a lovely, indulgent cheese that can be served with a spoon,” Buchanan raves, “and beautiful-looking, too.” A lot of cheesemakers use alcohol, but it’s more of a sales tool than something that contributes to the flavour You also hear a lot of praise for Rollright from King Stone Dairy in Oxfordshire, inspired by France’s reblochon. Supreme champion at the 2016 Artisan Cheese Awards and best soft cheese at the Great British Cheese Awards, it’s made with pasteurised milk from the farm’s 105-strong herd and named after the local standing stones. “It’s beautifully creamy,” Windsor says, “and not overwhelmingly pungent. It looks lovely, with a peach-coloured rind.” Unlike Stinking Bishop and many continental cheeses, it’s just washed in brine. “A lot of cheesemakers use alcohol,” Swinscoe says, “but it’s more of a sales tool than something that contributes to the flavour. You just need a wet environment. The monks who made cheeses hundreds of years ago did use alcohol, but in those days, that was the only thing that was safe.”Try also Golden Cenarth (semi-soft cow’s milk, washed in cider, veggie‑friendly).Main image, left to right: Anster, Perl Las, Quicke’s Vintage cheddar, St Jude, Lord of the Hundreds, Dorset Red, Colston Bassett stilton and Stoney CrossMy desert island cheese: top chefs, restaurateurs and food writers pick their favourites      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Food writer and cook Gizzi Erskine heads for the hills in search of her favourite cheese, Beaufort d’Été from the Alps. Photograph: Sophia Evans for the ObserverOlia Hercules “Syr, a Ukrainian curd cheese. If you salt it well, it can be used as a feta substitute; unsalted, it can pass for ricotta. It’s superversatile.”Gizzi Erskine “Beaufort d’Été: runny Alpine magic.”Thomasina Miers “Doddington: the ultimate, slightly granular, sweet hard cheese with crazy depth of flavour.”Giorgio Locatelli “It has to be gorgonzola – especially the soft one from Novara very close to my home in Italy.”Tom Kerridge “Époisses: it stinks like a ‘proper’ cheese. You can tell it’s very special, and has been looked after and treated with love.”Jack Monroe “I’m vegan, so good cheese is bloody hard to come by, but Bute Island Blue is nice enough to mainline through your fingers.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chef Tom Kerridge loves époisses because it stinks like proper cheese. Photograph: Mark Bourdillon/BBC / Love Productions / Love ProductionsRussell Norman “Comté: nutty, tangy, great texture.”Mark Hix “Guernsey Goddess: ahhhhhhhhh.”Yotam Ottolenghi “Parmesan: when I get home from work after a day of nonstop tasting and utter confusion to the tastebuds, all I want is a glass of Italian red and and a small wedge of parmesan. The deep flavour of the cheese immediately restores me and restores my appetite.”José Pizarro “Torta del Casar, which is local to Extramadura, my home region of Spain. You used to get it only in spring – it was sold door-to-door when I was a kid – but now it’s available year round. Strong, crunchy, bitter – and amazing.”Marina O’Loughlin “A block of extra-mature Tickler cheddar from the supermarket. It makes the finest cheese on toast, which is, of course, the emperor of all food.”Angela Hartnett “Comté: it’s got fabulous flavour, especially the aged ones, which have those salty crystals and nutty taste.”