The pet names that husbands and wives give each other are usually sickening. I have been startled to hear a peevish codger address his battleaxe of a wife as Numsy. When replying, she called him Pumpkin. It is therefore with embarrassment that I admit to calling my wife Fluffy. I can’t remember how it started, but the habit is now so deeply entrenched that we don’t think about it.If I address her by her real name, it sounds stilted and she thinks I am telling her off. Even referring to her by it when talking to a third person makes me uncomfortable, but then so does calling her Fluffy: it’s a lose-lose situation. Things are easier with our close friends for they, too, know her by her nickname.In return, Fluffy calls me Baby Jesus. I do remember how this started. It was at the passionate stage of our courtship, and we were in the four-poster bed (which we had christened Pat, after the postman) in my Barbican flat. An oak four-poster, let alone one with a large carved pineapple in its headboard and with strawberry-shaped finials, has no business in a brutalist concrete block where the ceiling clears the finials by one inch.My mother had bought it as a present when I got engaged to a predecessor of Fluffy’s, a woman whose pet name at the time escapes me, but who has become known, since we split up acrimoniously, as The Peril. We had the bed at The Peril’s house and when I moved out and into the Barby I took it with me, leaving The P to sleep on the floor – for she had disposed of her previous bed to make room for Pat. I hope she got backache. Pat was a flimsy repro and, when you moved or turned over, the frame would rock and creak rhythmically, as if copulation were in progress. I was celibate for my first couple of years in the flat, but the noise was good for my cred with the neighbours.It was that moment when, seed and passion spent, you used to light a cigarette, but, as neither Fluffy nor I smoked, she wrapped the duvet round my head and shoulders, like a shawl. “Baby Jesus!” she cried. “You look like Baby Jesus in the manger.”She told me to put on my spectacles, which were small, round and horn-rimmed. “Now you look even more like Baby Jesus!” Then she made me get up and look at myself in the mirror. The resemblance eluded me: Baby Jesus didn’t wear horn-rimmed specs, and the duvet made me look more like the Virgin Mary, if anyone. These awkward facts notwithstanding, the name stuck, although Fluffy now often shortens it to BJ – one of those pairs of initials that often do duty for names. JB is another, but some pairs are not so catchy: you seldom come across a person known as, say, MN. At the supermarket, Fluffy called, 'Baby Jesus, come and look at these beans!' A small boy stopped, wonderstruck Linguists may be able to explain this, as they can such odd phenomena as the use of front- stressed disyllabic words to express disbelief: rubbish, bollocks, nonsense, or (archaically) gammon, for example. It’s obvious, of course, why you don’t find people called MS, VD or BO.The thing has grown into a cult. Fluffy bought a Ladybird Book called Baby Jesus and put it on display in the lav, for visitors to leaf through while at stool and last Christmas she snapped up, at the Spitalfields bric-à-brac market, a model nativity scene with ox and ass, two shepherds, three wise men, Mary and Joseph, and BJ with a nimbus – all in plastic. She set them out on our coffee table, but failed to put them away on Twelfth Night.Nine months later they are still there, covered in dust which our Polish cleaner ignores; a devout Catholic, she may think it sacrilegious to touch them. In the intervening period the arrangement has been disturbed, so that Baby Jesus is no longer the centre of the other figures’ attention: one of the shepherds has fallen on his front, and the black wise man is examining the ox’s bottom.As in Fluffy’s case, some of our friends know me by my nickname – one of them, a historian of ecclesiastical art, calling me The Baby Jesus – and I am so used to it that I apply it to myself. “It’s Baby Jesus,” I called into the entryphone in the street outside a friend’s flat. Passers-by looked twice.Our household is too shambolic for us to manage a weekly shopping expedition, but when the fridge is empty we make an emergency sortie to the supermarket to relieve immediate needs. Recently, when we were there, Fluffy wandered down an aisle and called to me from the far end: “Baby Jesus, come and look at these beans – they’re on special.” (I wish she wouldn’t use that phrase.) A small boy, aged about four, who was walking past with his mother, stopped and pointed up at me, wonderstruck. “It’s Baby Jesus!” he gasped.I smiled down at him. His mother looked uncomfortable. “It’s not really Baby Jesus,” she said.Fluffy, returning from her inspection of the beans, irresponsibly interjected “Oh yes, this is the real Baby Jesus all right.” The mother grabbed the child’s hand and pulled him away, shaking her head, saying “I don’t want to get involved.” But the damage was done and, as we continued shopping, we could hear him prattling away, the words “Baby Jesus” ringing out over the shelves every few seconds.Our routes crossed again by a spillage that had been marked off, like roadworks, with rubber cones. The boy, by now in a lather, pointed at me again, seized one of the cones, put it to his mouth like a megaphone and shouted “BABY JESUS!” down it. Other shoppers turned and stared. I beamed at them. Let us hope that his scripture teacher sorted him out.Shrunk and Other Stories by Oliver Black is published by Prospero Press, £9.99. To order a copy for £9.99, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846