I am standing by a grey, formica-topped desk under the bare light of a strip bulb when I notice the shelves. They are full of rubber bums. And vaginas. The odd limpid penis. I have stumbled on a poultry aisle of matt-finish genitals right beside the ringbinders.  This isn’t any office. I have gone behind the scenes at Lovehoney – the Bath-based cornucopia of cock rings and crotchless knickers that takes centre stage in documentary The Joy of Sex Toys, the second series of which debuts, of course, on Valentine’s Day. It is only three days before the main event and the warehouse is thrumming with activity. Those massage candles aren’t going to dispatch themselves. “Sex is hilarious,” says co-founder Richard Longhurst. “There are all these people being very serious, looking at spreadsheets, coding, analysing data, but there’s dildos and fannies lying around. To us, it’s totally normal, but the first time the bank manager comes to visit their eyes are on stilts.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A strangely familial atmosphere ... staff at Lovehoney’s head office in Bath.He’s quite right – as I walk around the desks towards the warehouse, there are golden phalluses and gaping orifices strewn about like desk tidies. At one point, I nearly fall over a trolley of blow-up dolls: hairless, face down, their bottoms raised in a salute of either greeting or surrender. This is the enduring appeal of shows such as this – watching people not so unlike ourselves, doing something extraordinary.“We know that what we do is a really positive thing,” says the company’s other co-founder, Neal Slateford. “We’ll get letters from an 80-year-old woman who’s just had her first orgasm, or a couple whose marriage has been saved. We know that couples who use sex toys have better relationships, have more sex and enjoy sex more. It’s not sleazy. It’s the opposite. It’s couples having a whale of a time.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A normal day at the office ... a Lovehoney business meeting. His words are ringing in my ears as I stand in the warehouse, my hands gripped around the rim of my very own trolley. It’s time to go wild in the aisles – it’s time to pack an order sheet. And so I find myself, for the next 10 minutes, strolling up and down shelves heaving with goods, throwing chocolate body paint and Kama Sutra playing cards into the trolley. Everyone around me is friendly, chatting, swapping pleasantries and dancing to the stereo. I wheel around like a juggernaut until I come to the end of my sheet. And there it is. Of course. Fluffy handcuffs. My day is made.After careering around the warehouse I am introduced to Andrea, the undisputed West Country star of the series. Andrea’s job is in returns. That’s right – you can return Lovehoney products if you’re unhappy. I ask how has she coped with her new fame, standing by a giant box that shows a rubber torso with both breasts and bits. “It’s not that bad,” says Andrea. “You just get a few odd stares. In fact, I had someone this morning in the Sainsbury’s on Moreland Road. But my mum still keeps everything – every time we’re in the newspaper.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Juicy Jewels ... inside Lovehoney’s warehouse.There is a strangely familial feel about Lovehoney; people genuinely seem happy in their work. “NSFW just doesn’t exist here,” says Sally Fish, one of the PR and marketing team. We’re standing by the desk of a bondage expert, one of the editorial team who writes product descriptions for the website. Do they ever run out of adjectives for sexy? “All the time,” she laughs. “We have meetings to come up with new words. We even have a spreadsheet of sexy words to use.” I ask immediately to see it. Bang, boink, bone, docking the shuttle and air the orchid are listed under prosaic columns headed “words for sex”, “words for penis”, “words for female masturbation”. “You have to be creative, accessible and inclusive,” says Sally. “It’s not just for heterosexual couples and people of binary gender.” What’s this thing you keep your earrings on, I ask, without thinking. “These aren’t earrings, they’re nipple clamps,” she laughs. “And they’re super strong – I had to test them out in the toilet over there.” Fame, or perhaps infamy, lies lightly on the staff of Lovehoney. They are, as Richard says, just ordinary people in an extraordinary world. Their office isn’t so different to yours, their lives no stranger. So what, I wonder, does the co-founder of a sex toy franchise have planned for Valentine’s Day? “I’m taking my girlfriend to see Aston Villa play Liverpool,” he answers, absolutely deadpan.The Joy of Sex Toys is on Lifetime at 10pm on 14 February