For all his later fame as the creepy Severus Snape in the Harry Potter movies, Alan Rickman was very much a man of the theatre. As an actor, he had a matchless gift for ironic melancholy that made him not only the first but also the definitive Valmont in Christopher Hampton’s stage version of Les Liaisons Dangereuses. He was also a fine, if too infrequent, director who did excellent work on The Winter Guest and My Name Is Rachel Corrie.Alan Rickman, giant of British film and theatre, dies at 69 Rickman was fortunate: he was part of a generation that honed its craft in regional and fringe theatre before finding fame in film and television. By all accounts, he was an outstanding actor at London’s Latymer school and a prizewinning pupil at Rada before making his mark in the late 1970s at Birmingham, Sheffield and, above all, Stratford-upon-Avon. He was blessed with height, good looks and a slightly nasal voice that could caress language with a laid-back seductiveness: if ever an actor looked back in languor, it was Rickman.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alan Rickman on ShakespeareAll this came to the fore in a golden period at the Royal Shakespeare Company in the mid-1980s when he was a stubbly, neurotic Achilles in Troilus and Cressida and a mockingly cynical Jaques in As You Like It. But it was his performance as the dissolute Valmont, successively in Stratford, London and New York, that elevated him to star status. Playing opposite Lindsay Duncan’s Marquise de Merteuil, Rickman conveyed both the lassitude of the practised seducer and the growing self-disgust of a man aware of his destructiveness. He also showed a capacity to register minute gradations of feeling that would later stand him in good stead on screen. I’ve never forgotten the way he shrugged a weary eyebrow at the news that people lived on 56 livres a year or the shock with which he discovered his genuine passion for one of his victims.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alan Rickman as Hamlet in 1992. Photograph: Alastair Muir/Rex/ShutterstockRickman was a constant champion of off-West-End theatre. I last saw him at the Park theatre in north London on the first night of Dead Sheep, which dealt with Geoffrey Howe’s revenge on Mrs Thatcher and clearly chimed with his fascination with the process of politics. As a citizen, Rickman was politically active and the lifelong partner of a veteran Labour councillor, Rima Horton. That adds to the irony of the fact that Rickman was adept at playing actors who were his real-life antitheses. In Mephisto at the Barbican in 1986, he played Hendrik Höfgen (closely modelled on German actor Gustaf Gründgens), who cut his conscience to suit the Nazi cloth and who hid behind the pathetic plea: “I’m only an actor.”Rickman was even more memorable in Yukio Ninagawa’s 1991 production of Tango at the End of Winter: a modern Japanese play about a famous actor who abruptly quits the stage and inhabits a world of fantasy and dreams. He captured perfectly the doomed romanticism and exquisite narcissism of this falling star. It left me fervently wishing that Rickman would play Hamlet. When he did so, a year later at the Riverside Studios in London, it was in a Robert Sturua production that took over-literally the idea that “Denmark’s a prison”. Les Liaisons Dangereuses review – Alan Rickman is a cat who knows the way to the cream Although Rickman himself seemed confined by the production, he captured all of Hamlet’s pensive sadness and capacity for self-mockery: proclaiming “now could I drink hot blood”, he clamped a sword between his teeth as if sending up his own rhetoric. Even when Rickman played Shakespeare’s Antony opposite Helen Mirren’s Cleopatra at the National in 1998, he seemed superior to the production and at his best in his final encounters with his soldiers, as if aware of encroaching death.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alan Rickman with Lindsay Duncan in Private Lives. Photograph: Peter Jordan/PAThere were many other facets to Rickman’s career. His production of Sharman Macdonald’s The Winter Guest, first at the Almeida in London and then on screen, beautifully caught the atmosphere of an icy Scotland where human relationships seemed tinged by frost. Rickman also coedited – with the Guardian’s Katharine Viner – and directed My Name Is Rachel Corrie, which recorded the moving testimony of a 23-year-old American woman who went to aid Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and was killed by an Israeli bulldozer. Avoiding easy propaganda, the production worked because it was rivetingly specific about Rachel’s burning curiosity and the practical details of Palestinian life. He captured all of Hamlet’s pensive sadness and capacity for self-mockery In the end, Rickman was known to a wider public because of his work on movies such as the Harry Potter franchise, Die Hard, Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves and Love Actually. But, although he was capable of adapting his gifts to the screen to play sly or sinister characters, it was on stage that his capacity for conveying drawling charm and insolent mockery shone brightest. As an actor, Rickman was a master of ironic detachment, but in life he showed the campaigning vigour of someone who cared deeply and passionately about people and politics.