Great veterans of old wars are a rare and special breed. Anne Olivier Bell, who grew up as “Andy” Popham before she married into Virginia Woolf’s family, is the last survivor of a culture war – the Bloomsbury movement – that is now as venerable and remote as the Somme. Like that conflict, Mrs Bell – Olivier (pronounced “Olivia”) – is about to be a hundred years old.In the lee of the Sussex downs, just outside Charleston, which has become Bloomsbury central, this tall and serene old lady still lives in the red-brick cottage she shared with Quentin Bell, son of Vanessa, nephew and first biographer of Virginia Woolf. Her conversation is peppered with allusions to Leonard (Woolf), Maynard (Keynes), and Lytton (Strachey), and the walls of her cottage are decorated with the works of Roger Fry, Duncan Grant and Vanessa Bell. Step into her parlour and you enter a vanishing world, peopled by the writers and artists who have shaped our lives: notably, her cousin Laurence Olivier, Peggy Ashcroft, Rupert Brooke, Laurie Lee, Kenneth Clark and the poet laureate Cecil Day-Lewis.Her own story begins with her Fabian Society parents and her earliest memories of a Wiltshire farm boy singing a popular favourite with Great War troops: “K-K-K-Katy, beautiful Katy, you’re the only g-g-g-girl that I adore, when the m-m-m-moon shines, over the c-c-c-cowshed, I’ll be waiting at the k-k-k-kitchen door.”She breaks off to inquire if I know Jeremy Hutchinson, the celebrated barrister whose remarkable career is recalled in Thomas Grant’s Case Histories. “I saw him yesterday,” she says. “He’s a hundred and one.” The very old are as age-competitive as the very young, and as free in conversation. “I’m very jealous of him,” she continues. “He can walk, and he can talk, and do everything else I can’t do.”Whatever her frailty, her memory is as sharp as a quill, and her voice a strong quaver. As a young girl in the 1920s, she recalls being taken by her mother to stay with HG Wells (“very much a ladies’ man”), and impetuously sliding down the bannisters. “Half way down I fell off,” she remembers, and smashed a priceless vase. “There was HG standing among the fragments,” she continues, “but he was very nice indeed about it. He said, ‘I’m sure it was broken before, and we can get it mended’. I was in floods of tears, and he took me off to play the pianola. Oh, such a very kind man.”Bell’s brushes with greatness punctuate her early years. She remembers auditioning for the St Paul’s school choir with Gustav Holst. Later, she joined the newly established Courtauld Institute and was taught by Anthony Blunt, who she says she “adored”. (Another spy, Guy Burgess, instructed her family in the “perfect cocktail”, a mix of gin, Rose’s lime cordial and ginger beer.)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Vanessa Bell cutting Lytton Strachey’s hair while Roger Fry, Clive Bell, Duncan Grant and an unidentified guest look on, c1920. Photograph: AlamyHer first encounter with Virginia Woolf – “this beautiful lady in a red silk dress” – was actually in Bloomsbury, at a party given by the artist Benedict Nicholson.Then the second world war came and, like so many, she found her life turned upside down. She had fallen in love with an RAF pilot from South Africa, the artist Graham Bell (no relation to Quentin), but was now separated from him for months on end by the vicissitudes of war. In 1943, before they could marry, she was at her desk with the Ministry of Information when she received the official telegram she had dreaded: her lover was dead, killed in a flying accident.Bereaved and still single, Miss Popham seems to have become caught up in the bleak desperation of Home Front Britain. She and a flatmate shared second-floor rooms in Canonbury Square, London. Their neighbour was the cadaverous figure of George Orwell.“I used to see him going down the path with his little boy [Richard Blair, Orwell’s adopted son],” she recalls. One day there came a note from Orwell, inviting her to tea. “In his flat,” Bell continues, “there was a table, the baby, and its nurse. We had strong Indian tea, with brown bread and treacle. After tea, he told the nurse to take the baby away, and then he said, ‘Come and sit on the bed’. So I went and sat on the bed in the corner, and he came and sat beside me.”She laughs in disbelief at the memory. “In no time at all, his arms were round me, and he was kissing me. I was shocked. I said, ‘What are you up to ?’ and I pushed him away. Later on, I decided this must be how Old Etonians got on with girls, as if no one could resist them. He said, ‘I’m sorry’ and asked about my work, and I said, ‘I’m governing Germany’.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Matt Damon and Cate Blanchett in The Monuments MenIn November 1945, Bell had been approached by “a foppish young man” at a party who asked if she would be interested to join the Museums, Fine Arts and Archives branch of the allies’ control commission in occupied Germany, a programme designed to rescue masterpieces of European art from the chaos of war. The devastation had been colossal. From Austria and Czechoslovakia to France and Italy, the invading Nazis had looted priceless treasures for the Führer. She had accepted with alacrity. “I was concerned about all the bombing and the destruction and the horror and the moving about of pictures.”Back in Germany, she received “quite a long letter from Orwell apologising for his behaviour, explaining that he, too, had recently been bereaved, and was looking for a wife”. Bell, who subsequently gave the letter to the Orwell Foundation, resisted the opportunity to become the second Mrs Blair and returned to her work on the allied commission, serving as the only female officer among the “Monuments Men”. This allied team of some 300 art historians became responsible for supervising the return to their rightful homes of five million artworks seized for the planned Führermuseum.Although she had been given the honorary rank of major, and served under a Slade professor, Bell’s work and that of her colleagues received only a belated acknowledgement (an MBE) from the British government. Charles Saumarez Smith, chief executive of the Royal Academy of Arts, says: “There is a sense of embarrassment that the efforts made to preserve historic buildings and works of art were feeble in the light of the extraordinary levels of destruction allied bombers brought to German cities.”The weather according to Virginia Woolf In 2014 this vital cultural work became the subject of a Hollywood film, The Monuments Men, starring George Clooney and Cate Blanchett. Bell, who plainly revels in her friendship with Clooney, enjoyed the red-carpet treatment at the British premiere, but still treats her work with the Monuments Men quite matter-of-factly.Possibly the most fulfilling part of her long life came with her marriage in 1952 to Quentin Bell, Vanessa’s son, and nephew of Virginia Woolf. Olivier – at first “terribly nervous” of Clive Bell and Duncan Grant and “terrified by these clever people” – formed a deep maternal alliance with Vanessa Bell. Her mother-in-law, she recalls, “delighted in anything ludicrous. I would stay up with Duncan and Vanessa and the two of them would have very easy conversation, not at all ‘clever’. They liked all the trivia and gossip.”Through this renewed connection with Bloomsbury, Bell came to work on the Virginia Woolf papers, first as her husband’s research assistant for his Woolf biography, and then, throughout the 1970s, as the editor of the five-volume edition of The Diary of Virginia Woolf, a monument of Bloomsbury scholarship that will stand forever.Does she have any regrets ? “Well, my one regret is that I never asked Vanessa about her life when she was an upper-class girl in Kensington ...” A beat. “And I suppose I do regret not asking more about Bloomsbury.”Bell’s work on Woolf’s diary, a classic of English literature, remains a source of great pride. “The diary is much more important to me than the monuments work,” she says. Today Bell devotes herself to Bloomsbury business: Charleston, the Charleston Trust and its festival.Has she ever thought of writing her memoirs ? “No, no,” she shakes her head. “I’m not a writer.”Who they wereName Taken from the then down-at-heel area in central London, where their evening salons were held.Fame Comes, in a famous joke attributed to Dorothy Parker, from their habit of ‘painting in circles, living in squares and loving in triangles’.Members Biographer Lytton Strachey, novelist Virginia Woolf, her husband essayist Leonard Woolf, her painter sister Vanessa Bell, Vanessa’s husband, art critic Clive Bell, art critic and painter Roger Fry, painter Duncan Grant, (also beloved of Strachey and the economist John Maynard Keynes), novelist EM Forster and literary journalist Desmond MacCarthy.Satellites Virginia’s lover Vita Sackville-West, socialite Lady Otteline Morrell, Vanessa and Virginia’s brothers Adrian and Thoby Stephen, painter Dora Carrington, writer Katherine Mansfield, American poet TS Eliot, writer and publisher David ‘Bunny’ Garnett, translator Arthur Waley, and husband of Vita, diplomat and diarist Harold Nicolson.