A defective alarm system was in place when a British schoolboy was mauled to death by a polar bear during an Arctic expedition, a report from a former high court judge has concluded.Horatio Chapple, 17, was on an adventure holiday to the remote Svalbard islands in Norway with the British Schools Exploring Society (BSES) on 5 August 2011 when the bear ripped open his tent and dragged him out, causing mortal head injuries. Four others were hurt and the bear was shot dead by one of the group leaders in the attack which lasted just a few minutes.The report, commissioned by the BSES, concludes that there were missing pieces of equipment in the alarm system designed to warn of a bear's approach.Published to coincide with the start of the inquest into Horatio's death on Monday, the report criticises the storage and deployment of a rifle to be used to kill a bear in an emergency. It concluded the rifle was fired four or five times before the fatal shot – but each time bullets fell harmlessly to the ground because the 80-year-old weapon was set up wrongly.The report, drawn up by former high court judge Sir David Steel, gives a vivid account of the horrific incident.It says: "It would appear likely that the bear must have ripped open the tent on Horatio's side. It then dragged Horatio out causing serious, indeed probably mortal wounds, to his head. The screaming and shouts of 'bear' woke the rest of the camp. Horatio appeared to try and sit up or even attempt to stand whereupon the bear reared up and slammed into him. He fell to the ground. He was not seen to move again."The expedition's science leader [identified in the report as L2] emerged from another tent. He grabbed the rifle and fired four or five times. On each occasion a bullet was simply ejected on to the ground leaving the rifle empty. The bear then turned on L2 and mauled him about the head, causing him to drop the gun."The mountain leader of the expedition [identified in the report as L1] did not know where the spare bullets were and shouted for help in finding them. He diverted the bear from L2 by throwing a stone at it. The bear turned on L1 and mauled him badly."Other team members were attacked by the bear until L2 found one of the bullets that had been ejected, loaded the rifle and shot the animal dead."The report says the trip-wire system, a kind principally used by gamekeepers to protect bird pens, was "defective in terms of missing pieces of equipment". It says paper clips had been used to try to make the mechanism work, but these were not sturdy enough or the right shape for the job. The group knew the system was unsatisfactory because a team member had tripped the wire a few days before when he went to the toilet in the night but it had not activated the alarm.Regarding the rifle, the report concluded it was stored with the safety catch in a position that disabled the firing mechanism, leading to the emptying of the magazine.Training in the use of the Mauser 98 K rifle had been limited to some general handling and the firing of four shots. "Good rifle drill is essential as the present case demonstrates. Likewise the party appears to have been unaware of where the spare ammunition was stored."It says if the rifle had been stored properly it is likely to have fired correctly. "This would probably have led to the bear being shot. If killed, there would have been no further injuries. Whether the life of Horatio would have been saved must remain very uncertain."The report points out that no guard, or "bear watch", was organised although bears had been seen in the area and pack ice drifting close to shore increased the likelihood of their presence.It also says the layout of the campsite was not "entirely satisfactory" in that the tents were in a circle rather than, as recommended, in a line to avoid a trespassing bear feeling trapped.A post-mortem examination of the bear found it was 24 years old (25 being the usual maximum). It was seriously underweight (about 250kg rather than the typical 400kg), and had heavily worn and painful teeth.An investigation by Norwegian officials ruled that the death of the Eton College student resulted from "a number of unfortunate circumstances", but stressed that the BSES did not act negligently under criminal law. Horatio's parents lodged an appeal against the ruling but prosecutors in Norway upheld the original decision that no criminal charges should be brought.Steel's report says the tragedy was caused by the "rare occurrence of an intrusion of a starving polar bear into a camp situated well inland in Svalbard. It was a remote possibility but not unforeseeable."It concludes: "The chosen method of protection in the form of a trip-wire system was entirely in accord with advice of the Norwegian authorities and industry practice. But it was defective in terms of missing pieces of equipment. In any event, with hindsight it is not in fact an adequate substitute for a bear watch which, if established, would have been likely to warn of the approach of the bear in time to prevent the attack."The report says none of the mines that ought to have exploded to alert the campers of the presence of the bear did in fact detonate.It adds: "All members [of the group] including not least Horatio demonstrated great courage in the face of the attack which started while the camp was asleep. Likewise, considerable presence of mind was shown by the uninjured members of the party in the aftermath of the attack in tending to the wounded and calling for help."The report says: "In future a bear watch must become the norm for expeditions to Svalbard. There needs to be a complete review of available trip-wire systems but they should be treated only as a secondary protection device. There needs to be a rigorous upgrade of rifle training."Edward Watson, the chair of BSES, now known as British Exploring, said: "First and foremost, I would like to reiterate our deepest sympathy for Horatio's family, our sorrow that such a tragedy occurred on one of our expeditions and our sincere regret at the death of a fine young man. Horatio epitomised everything a young explorer should be and will not be forgotten."He said British Exploring had accepted and implemented all the recommendations in Steel's report."Amongst other things, we have drawn up a new standard operating procedure (SOP) relating to protection against predatory and wild animals in polar regions. The SOP includes a mandatory bear watch in all camps (a stipulation which exceeds what is required by Norwegian law), and the use of a new alarm system, which British Exploring has helped develop."Horatio, who wanted to become a doctor, was praised by his family after his death for his "amazing sense of humour and ability to laugh at himself". Eton College paid tribute to a popular pupil, saying his death was "devastating".Also injured during the incident in August 2011 were Michael Reid, 29, from Plymouth, Andrew Ruck, 27, from Brighton, Patrick Flinders, 17, from Jersey, and Scott Bennell-Smith, 16, from St Mellion in Cornwall.The inquest in Salisbury is due to last all week.