“The mystery remains: how do we stomach reading Knausgaard?” These “extensive descriptions of ordinary Norwegian life” have become, as Laurence Scott put it in the Financial Times, “a sort of cultural obligation”, with every spring bringing a fresh slab of fictionalised autobiography in which Karl Ove lays himself bare in agonising slow-motion detail. The penultimate book in the six-novel cycle attracted some typically rave reviews: the FT concluded that Some Rain Must Fall, which charts his struggle to become a writer, again “dramatises, better than any novel I have read, the experience of living in time. It is a pen-and-paper virtual reality; after reading it you feel that another past has been downloaded into your mind.” “I raced through the 662 pages like bingeing on the most moreish TV box set,” enthused James Kidd in the Independent, comparing Knausgaard’s opus to both Wordsworth and Rowling. But for Melissa Katsoulis in the Times, “after thousands of pages of his life story, even the most ardent fan risks burnout … This latest instalment focuses on seven miserable years in Bergen as a student, drifter and failed writer, and the unrelenting mood of boredom is as mind-numbing as the constant rain that falls on that dark coastal town.”Karl Ove Knausgaard: the shame of writing about myself From one man’s life to the life experiences of thousands: Helen Pearson’s The Life Project tells the story of the longest running study of human development in the world, which began when researchers set out to follow the lives of every baby born in the UK in a single week in 1946. Data from this and subsequent studies have shed light on issues of health, parenting and inequality, from the dangers of smoking to the positive effects of a bedtime story. The studies “played a vital role in shaming governments into helping to make Britain a healthier place – not just by throwing up immediate, striking results, but by providing a vast data set that can be returned to over the decades,” wrote Robin McKie in the Observer, applauding Pearson’s “spellbinding, carefully sourced and elegantly outlined” account. “This fine, detailed book makes an eloquent case for the continued creation and proper funding of cohort studies,” agreed Jenni Russell in the Sunday Times. “Nothing else can so effectively explain the experience of a generation or expose the worth of policy.” Keith Kahn-Harris in the Independent also applauded “a very British story” that “wrings plenty of drama out of the endless politicking and financial brinkmanship that has kept the cohorts on the road”.Anatomy of a Soldier by Harry Parker review – unusual perspectives on warfare “Anyone who remembers the awful results of being asked, as a child, to write a first-person account of a day in the life of the penny may flinch at the prospect of Afghan veteran Harry Parker’s debut,” wrote John Harding in the Daily Mail. This autobiographical story of a soldier who loses his legs in a bomb explosion in Helmand is narrated not by the central character but by the objects around him – and “may well be the finest so far to emerge from the UK’s 21st century wars”, Harding concluded. Other reviewers also conquered their initial doubts. The “strange and startlingly original” technique “feels both viscerally authentic, and about as far as you could get from the usual methods and manoeuvres of war fiction,” said Theo Tait in the Sunday Times. “I have never read a passage written from the point of view of a urinary catheter before.” “The ventriloquism is tricksy but, yes, it works,” decided John Sutherland in the Times, while war correspondent Anthony Loyd, writing in the New Statesman, was unequivocal: “Anatomy of a Soldier is a great novel: a defining work about a place beyond survival, where the terribly damaged succeed not just in living and adapting, but in bringing illumination back from the abyss. It will be read with wonder, with respect and with gratitude.”