The letter (19 April) about terminally ill patients hanging on to see the end of Pride and Prejudice reminds me of the indignation aroused when (spoiler alert) a picture of the Bennett girls’ double wedding appeared on the front cover of the Radio Times for the week the last episode was due to be broadcast. It had clearly never occurred to the intellectual BBC’s Oxbridge elite that there would be viewers who wouldn’t know how the story ended.Lindy HardcastleGroby, Leicestershire• I wonder if the young Belfast re-enactor posing with a Thompson submachine gun (Remembering rebellion, 17 April, early editions) was aware that this weapon had not yet come into production by 1916? It was certainly used by Republican forces during the war of independence of 1919-21 – and there is even a (questionable) theory that it was developed with this conflict in mind – but it certainly could not have featured in the Easter Rising itself.Jeremy Muldowney (Sometime theatrical armourer), York• The most exciting project to reopen historic swimming pools (Report, 18 April) must be for the Cleveland Pools on the banks of the river Avon in Bath. This is the only surviving Georgian lido and is said to be the oldest outdoor swimming pool in the country. It is a beautiful semicircular lido built in 1815, which closed in 1984. The Cleveland Pools Trust is determined to bring these wonderful pools back to life. It has been awarded a lottery grant and is aiming to reopen the baths to the public in 2019.Maureen WoodBradford on Avon, Wiltshire• John Crace (Sketch, 19 April) is morphing into Simon Hoggart. He may even make the election tolerable.Gordon GrahamStockport, Greater Manchester• Three full pages on transhumanism (The long read, 18 April). Looking forward to the exposé on the tooth fairy, with a follow-up on dreamcatchers.Allan McRobertKirkcaldy, Fife• It’s good to see Andrew Steed (Letters, 19 April) picking up the culinary cudgels on behalf of Walsall. As for my own shopping, I find the Streetly Co-op (in Walsall but with a Sutton Coldfield postal address) more than adequate. Roy Boffy Sutton Coldfield, West Midlands• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com•  Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters• The headline of this article was amended on 20 April 2017 to better reflect the point of the letter that it refers to