Into the Wind7.30pm, BBC4There is something rather Detectorists about watching a man yomp over stark marshland wielding a big furry boom mic in blustery weather. But, in this standalone doc, veteran radio producer and nature writer Tim Dee brings a persuasive thoughtfulness to his attempts to capture a recording of “pure” wind in the wilds of the Lincolnshire Wash. “It is a sort of oblivion I’m seeking,” he says. Following him on his quest is a transportive experience. Graeme VirtueThe Knowledge: The World’s Toughest Taxi Test 9pm, Channel 4This nourishing documentary claims the Knowledge – where would-be cabbies memorise every road in London – is as difficult as a law degree. It looks harder. Cameras are in the test centre as thousands of hours of learning culminate in a mind-melting oral test that you desperately hope everyone passes: a new career is the prize, but there’s a deeper point about humans taming an impossible task just to prove to themselves that they can. Jack SealeReported Missing9pm, BBC1An emotive documentary series following police as they investigate missing persons in Northumberland. Tonight’s episode focuses on missing children; the sense of peril and anxiety is ratcheted right up, particularly in the case of 12-year-old Joshua, who has learning difficulties and fails to come home after a row with his mum. Since he has an all-day bus ticket in his pocket, the police have to work fast to figure out where he might have gone. John RobinsonHenry IX9pm, GoldDubious three-part sitcom by classic comedy merchants Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais (Porridge, The Likely Lads), which follows Henry IX – husband, grandfather-to-be and king – as he decides to abdicate the throne after falling for a young Scottish florist (a smugly humble Kara Tointon). Disturbingly, his slightly pervy adultery is treated as a life-affirming move by the show, which complements its strange storyline with stiffly theatrical acting and tortured jokes. Rachel AroestiRhod Gilbert’s Work Experience10pm, BBC2The Welsh comic – second perhaps only to George Osborne when it comes to sniffing out new gigs – continues his amusing whistlestop tour of every job available in his home nation. For the first “placement” of this new series, he’s in Cwmbran, working alongside estate agent Gavin. The highlight is watching Rhod try to find a home for a tough, death-obsessed customer he nicknames “Batshit Norman Bates”. Hannah J DaviesMy Online Nightmare10pm, Channel 4Tim Berners-Lee wouldn’t be human if he didn’t occasionally look upon his works and despair. The seemingly emancipatory technological developments set in motion by the world wide web have proved to be something of a mixed blessing. He should probably give this documentary a swerve: it’s a litany of catfishing, grooming, sex fraud and general mischief that will make you want to encase your laptop in lead and bury it deep underground. Phil HarrisonMidnight Sun 10pm, Sky AtlanticDespite the gruesome cruelty of its villains and its painful melancholy, this French-Swedish cop drama is anything but noir in a visual sense, its scenic, well-lit backdrops contrasting with the subject matter. Tonight, Kahina attempts to extricate herself from a bog in which her captors have dumped her – escaping, she is met by her son, which is the cue for some poignant flashback sequences. Meanwhile, Anders receives information on another murder. David StubbsFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A waking nightmare … Jude Law in Side Effects. Photograph: Allstar/Entertainment OneSide Effects (Steven Soderbergh, 2013) 9pm, More4Soderbergh claimed to have retired from making feature films with this gripping and disturbing big-pharma thriller, and he signed off in style. It’s the story of a sleek and accomplished Manhattan doctor (Jude Law), whose developmental drug treatment for a depressed patient (Rooney Mara) causes her troubling side-effects, including scarily lucid bouts of sleepwalking. Soderbergh crafts the whole thing into a kind of waking nightmare. Paul HowlettLive sportCycling: Track World Championships 12noon, Eurosport 1. Action from Hong Kong.IPL cricket: Mumbai Indians v Sunrisers Hyderabad 3pm, Sky Sports 1. More T20 from India: Mumbai feature England star Jos Buttler.Champions League football: Atlético Madrid v Leicester City 7pm, BT Sport 2. Can the English champions spring an even bigger surprise this year?