Every now and then, a sausage comes along that changes the course of British slimming history. Now is such a time. Porky Lights are such a sausage.Look out of your window and you may notice we’re living in the midst of the sausage equivalent of Beatlemania – supermarkets selling out as slimmers bulk buy, arguments in the aisles over the last box, a band of weight-losers hooked on them as surely as The League of Gentlemen’s “special stuff”.Launched late last year, Porky Lights were not an immediate success, selling just 2,000 units a week. Then dieters’ club Slimming World decided to award the Porky Light just half a “syn” on their points table – by comparison, regular bangers are five syns. Slimming Worlders soon realised that, at a 10-times multiple, swapping-out bacon for Porkys meant that the full English breakfast could become a human right rather than an aspiration. Surrey-based manufacturer G White’s reckon it is now shifting 170,000 a week, and supply remains tight.Bad fad – Ruby Tandoh on how clean eating turned toxic On Facebook, fans have been singing Porky Lights’ praises. One described them as “the holy grail of sausages”. Some have got into the entreprenuerial spirit: as the shortage took hold, Victoria Fenner, 45, from Colchester, began making a 50-mile round trip to bulk buy, selling them directly into her local Slimming World group.The notion of a diet sausage may appear confusing, but the basic idea has been around for a while. “It’s just that most of them aren’t very nice,” explains Chris Price, managing director of G White & Co. “You would think that just using leaner pork would be enough, but those tend tend to taste very dry. It’s more about your manufacturing process.”Price is reluctant to talk about exactly what in the manufacturing process makes these different, admitting only that: “It’s a third-generation family business. So, these are flavour profiles we’ve had access to for years, and this one seemed to fit.” Price assures us the key ingredient remains pork, but at 78 calories apiece, the other ingredient may well be voodoo. “The thing is in food technology, if you’ve got something unique that people want, you need to keep it a secret or else people will just copy it.”A word of warning, though. “Sausages alone definitely aren’t the key to losing weight,” warns perfectly sensible Slimming World dietitian Carolyn Pallister. “Whether they’re lighter versions or not.” True, but no one has been reported as slamming a supermarket trolley into anyone’s ankles in the broccoli aisle at the time of writing.The sausage has always cast a vast penumbra over the human imagination. It can be one of our greatest treats if used well, but, if used badly, it can take us to very dark places indeed – a truth even the Porky Light hasn’t yet outrun.