A few years ago I was sent a book by a psychologist called Boris Cyrulnik. Cyrulnik was born in France in 1937, during the war his parents were sent to concentration camps and never returned. At the age of seven he joined the French resistance as a runner, carrying messages back and forth across enemy lines. The book was called Resilience and I’d been sent it because of my own work describing traumatic events and their impact – in a memoir The Devil That Danced on the Water uncovering the circumstances surrounding my father’s political murder in Sierra Leone in 1975, and again in The Memory of Love, a novel set during the subsequent civil war. I read Resilience in a single sitting, and it struck me that every word of it was true.A world-renowned expert in post-traumatic stress disorder, Cyrulnik accused other psychologists of subscribing to a kind of psychological determinism, of acting “like car mechanics”, in his words, in their ideas of cause and effect. Cyrulnik described how traumatic events are framed by the narrative given to them, in ways that can exacerbate or mitigate the impact of experiences for the sufferer. The context given for suffering is what determines survival, the feeling of selfhood is shaped by the gaze of others, namely the emotional reactions of people and of the culture around them. Cyrulnik found that, among children who survived the Nazi occupation of France, those who had, like him, joined the resistance suffered the lowest levels of postwar depression. “Did these children join the resistance because they were already more resilient?” he writes, “Or did their narrative identity, or the stories they rehearsed in their heads after the war– ‘I am the boy who at the age of eight, stood up to the German army’– give them a feeling of selfhood that had more in common with a hero than a victim?” Cyrulnik was convinced it was the latter, and devoted his career to freeing children who had endured trauma from the narrative of damage.It’s not hard to see the link between Cyrulnik’s theories of resilience and storytelling. The power of the story lies in the hands of the storyteller, to see oneself only ever reflected through the eyes of another is to view the self through a distorting lens, this is the shared experience of all those whose place in history has been marginalised. The regime in Sierra Leone worked to eradicate every mention of my father’s name from the public sphere. In writing his story I was able to take control of the narrative of his life, my life, of my family and my country’s story, to write through the lens of our own experience. The wilful amnesia of a dominant culture that would rather forget its historical transgressions must be challenged The same is true in western literature. Looking back over the span of the last 60 years is to see, on the part of writers whose stories have been pushed to the periphery, the unbroken arc of a joint creative endeavour, one that has been unspoken, has come unasked for with the job description, a collective consciousness fuelled by a collective outrage, one that would refute the mainstream gaze.For the first generation of African writers who came of age at the same time as their countries, this meant writing Africans into a full existence. For Chinua Achebe, writing Things Fall Apart meant challenging Joseph Conrad’s portrayal of grunting, non-verbal Africans in Heart of Darkness, giving his characters the interior lives and relationships, conflicts and flaws – the very agency and subjectivity that Conrad had denied them. For Ngũgĩ wa Thiong’o it meant retrieving his Kikuyu language, the language he had been beaten for speaking as a child undergoing colonial instruction. “I began to write because I did not see myself in literature, and I wanted to see myself there,” said Tsitsi Dangarembga, the Zimbabwean novelist, for the western gaze had passed completely over the heads of black and African women.The wilful amnesia of a dominant culture that would rather forget its historical transgressions must be challenged. In a recent article for the Guardian the Pakistani writer Moni Mohsin protested against the absence of the history of colonialism from British school syllabuses. “For all the range and candour of their education, [my teenage children] haven’t once encountered Britain’s colonial past in school … While studying the treaty of Versailles, [my daughter] learned that some countries had colonies at the time and, as part of Germany’s punishment, it was stripped of its colonial possessions. Period.”Viet Thanh Nguyen, the Pulitzer prize-winning author of The Sympathizer, has described the portrayal of the Vietnam war by Hollywood and American writers as “the only time history has been written by the losers”, with Americans appearing as the true victims of the war, overlooking the millions of Vietnamese dead.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Lost narratives must be retrieved, those that have been omitted must be replaced. We must resist the attempts of others to define us, as in Binyavanga Wainaina’s scorching satirical essay on the way in which some western writers persist in portraying Africans, “How to write about Africa” (now a YouTube video featuring Djimon Hounsou), and Chimamanda Ngozie Adichie’s TED talk, “The danger of the single story”, which has been viewed 2.5m times.Each generation of writers of African heritage builds on the foundations of the generation that went before. Not only are we taking back our stories, we are reversing the gaze. In The Memory of Love, my novel set in postwar Sierra Leone, a British psychologist arrives to help the war-afflicted. At first the reader sees the country through his eyes. I created Adrian Lockhart. And I also created Kai Mansaray, a young Sierra Leonian surgeon, who offers the reader a different way of seeing. Through Kai’s eyes we see the country, its past and its secrets, the nuances to which Adrian is not privy, and we see Adrian, his assumptions, his pre-conceptions and his mistakes.We take back our stories, we occupy the centre, we reverse the gaze, we keep battling. In 2015 I wrote an essay, “Where are the west’s political writers?”, which questioned the political disengagement of too many western writers. Now 2015 seems a lifetime ago. Since then intellectuals and artists have become a derided elite, and are being forced to respond as others of us have long had to, by writing back.In November I attended the National book awards in New York, a week after the presidential election. Cornelius Eady, a founder of Cave Canem (a writers’ centre with a focus on African American poets and writers), said with startling foresight: “Right now, as we speak, uptown there are people in a building that are trying to write a narrative about who we are, and who we are supposed to be and what to do about us. When you lose that story or you … allow that narrative to be taken from you, bad things happen. It is our job and our duty to make sure we get to write our own story, the fullness of who we are … in our own language.”• This is an extract from a keynote speech given by Aminatta Forna to the African Studies Association.