The old mantra of “the fresher the better” is one that is so frequently bandied about as a reason to grow your own that many of us believe unquestioningly that it must be true, particularly when it comes to the nutritional content of our crops. But is there any evidence to support this belief? Well, perhaps surprisingly, many crops actually show a measurable increase in phytonutrients, even flavour chemicals, upon storage. Sweet potatoes, winter squash, even fruit such as tomatoes and berries for example, can become noticeably sweeter, more fragrant, richer in vitamins and potentially protective phytonutrients if not eaten straight from the garden.However, there are a few crops for which research does show that freshness can make a truly phenomenal difference, making homegrown the very best option, and nowhere is this more true than in the case of broccoli. In a recent study a Spanish research team aimed to replicate the conditions which broccoli is typically subjected to from field to fork – storing them at 1C for a week to mimic industrial transport and storage followed by three days at 15C to simulate it sitting on the store shelves, with some eyebrow-raising results. They reported that by the time broccoli gets to you it could have lost 80% of its potentially heart-healthy glucosinolates, a group of sulphur-based chemicals that also provide this veg with its characteristic flavour and purported cancer-protective effects. Research shows by the time broccoli gets to you it could have lost 80% of its potentially heart-healthy glucosinolates This precipitous decline of nutritional value as soon as the florets are harvested was also echoed by others. One study in the journal Food Chemistry, for instance, found that broccoli could lose up to 70% of its vitamin C and beta-carotene and 50% of its antioxidant activity in just six days.If you do fancy trying to grow this popular veg, now’s the time to start sowing seeds according to package directions. And if you want to get even more benefits, research has shown that sprouting types can offer almost twice as much as the green heads. These varieties also tend to be easier to grow than the conventional types, offering up pretty staggering yields per plant, despite being more expensive to buy in the supermarkets.A pretty sweet deal really! When seedlings are 10-15cm high bed them out in a well-prepared veggie bed in full sun, about 40cm apart and water in well. Other than a quick watering every two weeks or so in dry conditions and throwing a fine net over plants to keep caterpillars off, they have always been some of the easiest veg to grow in my tiny Croydon patch. How To Eat Better by James Wong is published by Mitchell Beazley at £20. To order a copy for £17, go to bookshop.theguardian.comEmail James at james.wong@observer.co.uk or follow him on Twitter @Botanygeek