The Americans are coming! The Americans are coming!Last week the lantern signals of the internet revealed that the Broadway smash Hamilton, which just won 11 Tony awards, including best musical, will invade London’s West End, specifically the Victoria Palace in October 2017, after the theater undergoes a £30m ($42.8m) renovation, led by the producer Sir Cameron Mackintosh. As Hamilton requires a fairly minimal, mostly static set, how will that money be spent? On anti-scalper defenses? On crowd control? On a revolutionary war-themed bar? But whether or not Hamilton will continue its democratic reign as critic’s darling and box-office behemoth is of course the most pressing question. If America and England are two countries divided by a common language, we are also often separated by finicky and fiddly matters of taste. There’s a lengthy list of shows that soared in London only to flop on Broadway and a similar compendium of New York living legends that proved DOA in the West End.  Unfortunately, the equation for hit and miss is nothing so simple as the lavishly false truism that Broadway favors style over the West End’s substance. (Both light and heavy shows have sizzled then fizzled at each locale.) For every Book of Mormon that kills, there’s a Spring Awakening that dies a lot less gloriously. As for Broadway, its history is strewn with duds that scintillated in London: Enron, to cite a recent example or Starlight Express, to call upon a classic (though why that one succeeded anywhere is still something of a mystery).    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Hamilton does have its difficulties. The first, perversely, is its overwhelming popularity. The show has become such a cultural phenomenon that it is bound to inspire skepticism and a feeling that it can’t possibly live up to its hype. The recent announcement that its New York producers had raised the top-tier ticket price to $849 – ostensibly as a countermove against scalpers – is also unlikely to encourage charitable feelings. That Lin-Manuel Miranda has achieved so much at such a young age could also conceivably incite some tall poppy syndrome. Additionally, the London production will have a new cast, which is unlikely to include Miranda or Tony winners Renée Elise Goldsberry, Daveed Diggs or Leslie Odom Jr. These new performers are unlikely to be as closely bonded as those in the original New York corps, many of whom have known one another for years, and have a jaunty, playful spirit, as seen in the Ham4Ham videos, in which the cast entertain those waiting for the last-minute ticket lottery. This new cast, like the New York one, will almost certainly be assembled from actors of color, a move that strengthens the musical’s vision of the American founding fathers as a group of upstart immigrants. But will that aesthetic choice have similar resonance in England, a country with different (though perhaps no less fraught) relationships to race and immigration and a place in which multiracial casts are more common? Then there’s the story itself, which encompasses key moments in American history, like that war we won against, er, the British. (Though surely that’s all water across the Atlantic by now. Right? Right?) More problematically, the second act deals with America’s nation formation and political infighting, material that won’t have been taught in British schools. Additionally, its musical language draws from styles such as rap and R&B – a potential problem as musicals that feature a more contemporary sound, like Rent or Spring Awakening, haven’t fared as well in the West End. So why bet on Hamilton at all? Well, it’s the most original and perilously exciting new musical to have made it on to Broadway in years. The lyrics have an ocean-crossing energy and the music is a spirited and confident pastiche of a multitude of styles, including familiar ones like the pop ballad and the show tune.Miranda’s In the Heights, an enjoyable but more minor effort now running at the King’s Cross Theatre in London, also featured some unusual musical varieties, like hip-hop and salsa, which doesn’t seem to have hurt its reception. Nor has the absence of Miranda – who originated the role of Usnavi – and other original cast members been perceived as a particular detriment. London audiences seem to have had little difficulty responding to the rhythms and culture of a distinctly New York neighborhood.This again bodes well for Hamilton. If the British are unfamiliar with much of Hamilton’s story, most American audience members are no better versed in the intricacies of Washington’s cabinet and the drafting of the Federalist Papers. (Yes, the show makes fun of mad King George, but mocking the royals is hardly a distinctly American pastime. Furthermore, he gets a very good song.) Recently, Americans have managed to follow the plots of recent pieces such as The Audience and King Charles III, so surely the Brits will keep up. Besides, Hamilton is at its heart both a great man biography and a classical tragedy – the tale of a hero ultimately undone by his own confidence, hubris – and that needs no translation.There’s nothing to be done about the extraordinary acclaim that precedes Hamilton to London. But ticket buyers, even disbelievers, will still want to be in the room where it happens.