In his beat-up Honda accord, fisherman Ali Itani drives down a dirt road that hugs the Mediterranean sea. He points to the limestone cliffs and natural lagoons where he has fished all his life. In the nearby sandy hills, his grandfather once herded 200 sheep, surrounded by cactus and fig trees. The Itani family claims to have settled here more than a century ago, living in caves and seaside shacks, when Beirut was a city full of orchards and rustic stone houses.Outside a tin shack cobbled together with old wood planks and disused advertising banners, Itani shares a meal with some of his lifelong friends. The mood in the group is sombre. They know this could be one of their last gatherings.Today, this rocky peninsula, the size of a few football pitches and known as the Dalieh of Raouche, is the city’s last natural outcrop. It is walled in by glass luxury towers where apartment prices begin in the millions of dollars. All along Beirut’s coastline it is the same – a development frenzy that has changed the face of the city, wiping out much of the craggy natural shore and replacing it with concreted yacht marinas and upscale resorts.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Barbed wire and fences suddenly went up at Dalieh, blocking all access except for a few small gaps. Photograph: Habib BattahThe Dalieh area was a rare survivor, drawing crowds of working-class Beirut families to swim in its natural pools and picnic in its grassy hills. Yet last summer, the site was fenced off with barbed wire, except for a few small openings. Meanwhile, news leaked that renowned Dutch architect Rem Koolhaas had been commissioned to draw up plans for a major project, on a roughly 100,000 sq m plot that extends across much of the natural site. The news came as a shock to all those who thought Dalieh was an officially protected natural reserve – the last bastion of raw coastline in the city. The land had originally been owned by several Beirut families who had been custodians since Ottoman times. No building was allowed, and the land was available to the public for farming and fishing. In the 1990s, the Hariri political dynasty came together to buy it.When the Koolhaas news leaked last year, a loose coalition of architects, professors and young professionals, the Civil Campaign to Protect Dalieh, reacted swiftly. They organised weekly protests, university lectures and musical performances along the rock cliffs at Dalieh, and encouraged Facebook followers to share black-and-white photos of diving contests and family gatherings.They also launched a lawsuit against the government, claiming that the development laws had been passed during the chaos of the civil war and had sold out Beirut’s natural heritage. The suit focused on decree 169, from 1989, which removed previous restrictions on development in Dalieh and the surrounding coastal areas, including the famous pigeon rocks and Beirut’s only public beach. Their attorneys say the law was not made public or ratified by other government bodies, many of which were not even in session during the war. And they say the developers held close ties to the politicians who passed it. Rafik Hariri himself, as well as being a major real estate player, was for many years prime minister.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Acitivists from the Save Dalieh campaign hung banners protesting developmet at Dalieh and Beirut’s famous pigeon rocks (right) Photograph: Habib BattahThe activists also demanded in an open letter to Koolhaas that he explain and defend his proposed project. They cited studies commissioned by the Lebanese government that call for protection of Dalieh’s cliffs and caves as a natural habitat and archaeological site (flint tools dating to the Paleolithic and Bronze Age have been found). Koolhaas wrote back, expressing his appreciation for their efforts and saying his client “has shown an awareness of [Dalieh’s] uses, its history and its beauty, and is clearly expecting us to respect and preserve these qualities in the development of our ideas ... Our intention to actually enhance public accessibility of the site.”Architect Abir Saksouk-Sasso, one of the campaign’s organisers, says you need only look at history to guess what is likely to really happen. She traces the changing Beirut coastline on a series of historical maps, showing how once-protected shores have been gradually subdivided, land exploitation ratios increased, and natural formations erased by artificial piers and 5-star hotels.“Whatever project is being done, it is being worked on within an existing legal framework that was tailored to benefit landowners, politicians and real estate interests,” she says. “Any project will destroy the landscape features of the site, from ecology to geology to archeology. We want Dalieh to remain the free, unconstrained and natural place we’ve always known it to be.” Koolhaas’s firm, OMA, declined to make further comment on this.Just a short way down the beach is a good example of how coastal development usually proceeds in Beirut. There, American architect Steven Holl was commissioned to design the city’s new marina area, dubbed Zaitunay Bay. Partly owned by former finance minister Mohammad Safadi, it opened to much fanfare in 2011.The project was sold to the public as a private initiative that would facilitate access to the seafront. The sketches depicted people strolling the boardwalks, riding bicycles, rollerblading and walking dogs. But today signs posted throughout the minimalist, basalt-tiered complex prohibit all of these activities, as well as picnics or playing music. Instead, visitors can enjoy a strip of upscale restaurants (fawned over by the New York Times) where a family meal can easily exceed Lebanon’s minimum monthly wage. The marina is studded with dozens of multimillion-dollar yachts, while Zaituna Bay’s website promises many of its restaurants “will serve you on your boat!” The boardwalk and all marina entrances are tightly monitored by private security.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   No fun allowed ... a sign at Zaitunay Bay, Beirut. Photograph: Habib BattahIn exchange for the rights to develop the site, the company that manages the marina agreed to pay the state an annual fee for 50 years of just $1.60 for each of the 66,000 sq m. “The berthing fees for one yacht alone could cover the annual government fees,” says Mohammad Zbeeb, an editor at local daily Al Akhbar, who broke the fee story. In 2013, Zbeeb and a group of protesters stormed the Zaitunay boardwalk, holding banners that read “Liberating public property is a national duty” and calling for the “occupiers” to be sent to prison.But Zaitunay Bay is just one fragment of an even more gargantuan seafront project: an attempt to reclaim nearly 800,000 sq m of Beirut land from the sea. The project, which is nearly finished, is being carried out by Solidere, Lebanon’s largest developer, founded by none other than Rafik Hariri. With easy access to Zaitunay Bay and yet another new yacht marina, these plots will undoubtedly be some of the most expensive in the city.Maritime property is public land, according to the Lebanese constitution. But a series of exceptions allowed Solidere the right to develop this new “waterfront business district” if it agreed to build roads and a park. Documents from the 1990s show that the company was to invest $475m in rebuilding downtown Beirut (they transformed the rubble-strewn area into a shiny upscale district) and developing the waterfront. The properties it gained in that reconstruction are now worth upwards of $8bn. And because its infrastructure deals just increase the value of Solidere’s own properties, critics say the government got the short end of the stick.“If it costs Solidere $475m to build it, let’s just pay them,” says Zbeeb.  High-rises already loom over Dalieh on all sides. Photograph: The Civil Campaign for the Protection of Dalieh of RaoucheSolidere disputes the figure, saying it spent closer to $900m on Beirut after legal costs and compensation to squatters. The company is famously hard to get on the record, but its urban planning manager, Amira Solh, recently told a “Resilient Urban Waterfronts” panel at the Lebanese American University: “There is a price to having a private company take on Beirut City Center [Solidere’s flagship development in Beirut]. And that price is that you rely on a private company to also ensure the public good.” Solh insisted that projects like Zaitunay Bay are open to the public, and that the new waterfront will also feature an extended seaside promenade. But she admits there are pitfalls to relying on commercial firms to develop public space. “Private interests want a return on their goods, so therefore they want it to be public insomuch as it serves them … so there is kind of a need to say this is controlled. But even London has these restrictions on rollerblading, bicycling etc.”She said Solidere plans to build a number of museums, cultural centres and 60-odd public spaces and parks. Save for a handful of small green spaces and “hardscaped” public areas that are patrolled by guards, few such Solidere projects have ever materialised over the last two decades– during which time the company has created entire blocks of luxury towers.Is Beirut's glitzy downtown redevelopment all that it seems? In fact, Lebanon’s entire 220km coastline teems with private resorts and marinas, most of them illegal, and with more on the way. According to Al Akhbar newspaper, leaked government documents indicate over 2.5m sq m of the coastline has been privatised, with more than $1bn in unpaid fines and taxes and at least 1,000 outright legal violations. That’s about five illegal private resorts per kilometre – yet another chaotic vestige of the civil war that has left Lebanon rife with corruption.Many of the resorts are owned by senior politicians. Other ministers have expressed anger. Mohamad Machnouk, the environment minister, posted photos of the Dalieh barbed-wire fences in a widely shared Facebook post, calling them “scandalous”. Former transport minister Ghazi Aridi was even more blunt in an Al Jazeera documentary last year. “This is a country of total exploitation,” he said in exasperation. “This is a country with no shore.”At one point during her panel appearance, Solidere’s Solh argued that part of the problem was that the public is not accustomed to using her company’s spaces. “I think public space is a process of learned citizenship,” she said. “Public space is something we are getting used to again. ... I encourage everyone that doesn’t go downtown, go walk it, it’s time for us to reclaim the city centre.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A fisherman at his Dalieh shack. Some have been paid to leave the area. Photograph: Habib BattahBack on the grassy hills of Dalieh, Ali Itani shrugs. “Why would I walk there? I can walk here.” He says some of the other fisherman have been paid tens of thousands of dollars to leave without a fuss. It’s a lucrative offer for those with so little, but Itani says he would be happy to stay, if someone would at least provide them with bare plumbing and tiled bathrooms. He flips through a stack of faded Polaroids from his youth: family gatherings from the 1970s before the towers went up, his boys catching fish, a younger version of himself leaping toward the Mediterranean with a Lebanese flag in his hand. At 50, he claims he can still do a forward flip dive.“Of course I want to stay, I was born here. My life is here,” he says. “If I leave, I will be a fish out of water, I won’t survive.”He says there is a huge bounty of fish to be caught near the Zaitunay marina. But private security restrict him from getting close. Asked what he makes of projects like Zaitunay and their promise of public access, Itani lifts his head and smiles: “Those places are not made for you and me.”