Celia Farrar & Guy JacksonMACKEREL POKE WITH GINGER AND CHIVE PESTO“In the spring you start getting some amazing new produce in your vegetable deliveries,” says Celia Farrar of Eat Poke, listing her seasonal favourites. “And it’s the time when you stop craving heavy food and start thinking summer outfits.” Eat Poke’s Los Angeles-inspired take on Hawaii’s fish dish is full of freshness: “It’s zingy, cleansing and crunchy with the pickles.” Serves 4 as a starterFor the rice:Short-grain brown rice 150g, cooked and cooledFor the pickles:radishes 1 bunch, stalks and leaves removed, quarteredcarrots 2 peeled, cut into ribbonsrice wine vinegar 60mlsugar 2 tbspsalt 1 pinch I love fresh cheeses, which start becoming more fruity and grassy as pastures change Combine the vinegar, sugar and salt. Stir until the sugar dissolves. Add the carrots and radishes. Refrigerate for 30 minutes.For the ginger and chive pesto:fresh ginger 4 tbsp, minced finelychives 4 tbsp, sliced finelyrice wine vinegar 2 tbspmirin 3 tbspfresh coriander leaves 10gflaked sea saltSweat the ginger over a low heat with the vinegar and mirin for 25-30 minutes (until the liquid has mostly evaporated). Cool. Stir through the chives and coriander and season.For the mackerel poke:fresh mackerel fillets 4sesame oil 2 tspPin bone the mackerel and remove the skin before slicing the fish into 1cm cubes. Stir through the sesame oil.To serve:furikake (Japanese seasoning) or black and white sesame seedsfresh coriander leaves 10gPlace the mackerel poke on to the cooled rice and top with the ginger pesto, pickles, and the remaining coriander and furikake.Anna HansenGOAT’S CURD, CARROT, FENNEL AND SPELT SALAD      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Getting fresh: Anna Hansen at the Modern Pantry, Finsbury Square. Photograph: Alex Lake for the ObserverBlossoming trees signal renewal for Anna Hansen, head chef at the Modern Pantry in central London. “That hint of things to come is beautiful,” she says. Her recipe balances post-winter rejuvenation with incoming delights. “I love fresh cheeses, which become more fruity and grassy as pastures change.” Serves 6For the spelt:spelt 300g, soaked in water overnight cloves 8whole allspice 8mace 3 large bladesRinse the spelt then simmer it with the spices in boiling water until tender. Drain and cool. Pick out the mace.For the lemon roast fennel: fennel 1 large bulb, cut into thin wedges lengthways peel of a lemon juice of half a lemonMaldon salt 1 level tbsp – less if using fine saltpink peppercorn 4 tsp, lightly blitzedextra virgin olive oil 80mlRoast the fennel with the other ingredients in foil at 180C for 20 minutes, then at 200C for 8 minutes, uncovered.For the carrot, ginger and manuka honey dressing:carrots 6 mediumlemongrass 2 stalksginger 45gturmeric 20gmanuka honey 40gjuice of half a lemonJuice the carrot, ginger, lemongrass and turmeric. Whisk in the honey and lemon juice.Pistachios and seeds:pistachios 100g, shelledfennel seeds 2 tsppoppy seeds 1 tbspMaldon salt 1 level tbspwater 1 tbspToss the ingredients together. Bake at 140C for 10 minutes. Cool and gently bash with a rolling pin.To serve:goat’s curd 200g (use fresh goat’s cheese if unavailable)fennel bulb 1 small, trimmedgreen eating apple 1, slicedcarrots 3 medium (preferably heritage)new season’s peas 150g, blanched (use frozen if unavailable)watercress 1 bunchextra virgin olive oil to drizzleSlice the fennel finely crossways. Peel the carrots into long strips. Toss together. Dress liberally with the dressing above. In a separate bowl, dress the spelt and season it. Scatter watercress over a platter, add a third of the spelt, roast and fresh fennel, apple, carrot and peas. Repeat until all are used. Blob the goat’s curd on top, scatter over the pistachios and seeds, drizzle with oil. Serve immediately.Leandro CarreiraMOREL MUSHROOMS, TOMATO WATER & OLIVE OIL      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Leandro Carreira at Climpson’s Arch. Photograph: Alex Lake for the ObserverThe scent of young pines in the Portuguese countryside used to mark spring for Carreira, who is currently in residency at Climpson’s Arch in east London. These days he relies on Londoners’ faces. “Everyone seems happier. People get in the mood to go out.” Fond of foraging since childhood, when he would gather morels among other plants, he relishes rotating fresh, found textures on to his menu. “Many things excite me,” he says, “like edible leaves and flowers.” Serves 4 as a side dish.Marinda tomatoes (or other heirloom) 1 kg fresh morels 250g mustard leaves 100g yellow radicchio 100g (use plain if unavailable)extra virgin olive oil 150mlDijon mustard 10gsea saltBlitz the tomatoes in a powerful blender till puréed. Tie a piece of muslin (or thin cotton towel) over a bowl. Drain the pulp overnight to separate out the liquid.Wash the mushrooms in cold running water, then dry them gently. Pick radicchio and mustard leaves, wash and dry them, then tear them roughly. Blend the mustard with 100ml olive oil and tomato water, and blitz until smooth.Season with salt. Heat a sauté pan and add the remaining olive oil. Sauté the mushrooms for 2 minutes. Season with salt.To serve: Place the tomato and olive oil emulsion into a shallow serving bowl, add the morels, top with leaves.