It’s Christmas Eve, and you need to spruce up the house for tomorrow, but the shops are heaving and you don’t want to venture out. What to do? It’s time to get creative with whatever you can find in your house and garden.Get set for Christmas dinner…If your Christmas table is looking bare, raid your garden for greenery and make a centrepiece in minutes. Flower farmer and florist Georgie Newbery of Common Farm Flowers recommends using a bucket, jug or deep bowl (a cut-glass trifle bowl, say) rather than a vase. Use Blu-Tack to secure a candle or three (either stout church candles or dipped candles) in the base, and make a grid out of sticky tape across the top of the container to keep the candles and foliage upright. Fill the bowl with water, then pick a huge bunch of whatever’s looking good (Newbery suggests hazel catkins, flowering viburnums, ivy berries, willow stems, pittosporum and griselinia); slot them into the grid of tape around the candles.Make holly leaf place cards. Cut holly-shaped leaves in red and green card, fold in half lengthways, and write place names (ideally in a metallic pen) on the side that’s standing up.Alternatively, create rosemary sprig placeholders. Cut card into squares; collect small sprigs of rosemary from the garden, leaving a twiggy end; attach this onto the top corner of each card using fancy tape; and write on guests’ names.Scatter the table with the littlest pine cones you can find. Even better, dip them in gold paint.Deck the halls... Fetch a branch from the garden; apple tree prunings and stems of Japanese quince work well, but anything will do. Place in a heavy, wide-based vase or pot and weigh down with as much ballast as you can to stop it toppling over. Cover in silver or white paint, or leave it natural, particularly if it is crusted with lichen. Hang with your most beautiful baubles. Alternatively, decorate a large houseplant: think swiss cheese plant (Monstera deliciosa), pothos vine or weeping fig (Ficus benjamina).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Illustration: Phil Hackett for the GuardianIf you have a tree that’s looking rather bare, raid the bathroom cabinet for cotton wool balls. Set any relatives who are at a loose end to work – thread a needle with cotton, sew through the balls, and dot them round the tree. Hey presto, soft, fluffy snowballs. Alternatively, enlist children to help bake gingerbread men. Make a hole in the top before you bake them, then when they’re cool, ice in festive colours and thread leftover ribbon through to hang from the branches. Complete the homemade look with orange (or satsuma, or clementine) slice decorations. Cut an unpeeled fruit into round slices, bake on a low heat for a couple of hours to dry out, then thread some ribbon or twine through the top of each slice.If you have a spare large, plain bauble, either plastic or glass, you can make a personalised decoration that can double as an impromptu gift. Dig out a paint set, and paint a child or adult’s hand all over with white acrylic paint – do this by the sink so they can wash their hands as soon as you are finished. Get them to grasp the bauble lightly but firmly from below so they make a hand print, with the palm covering the base and the fingers pointing towards the top. Once this is completely dry, use permanent markers to turn each finger into a jolly snowman: pebble smile, carrot nose, hat, scarf and so on. There are lots of good examples online, if you want a visual guide. This can also serve as a last-minute present for grandparents.Dawn Isaac, author of 101 Things For Kids To Do Outside, suggests raiding the garden for twigs to make star decorations; lash them together with twine, string or ribbons. Any pliable twig will do, but red or yellow dogwood stems or bright green willows look particularly eye-catching.You can also make simple wreaths by bending some stems into a circle and binding them with twine, then adorning with fluffy clematis seedheads, dried chillies, pine cones and anything else you can lay your hands on.If you have wire hanging baskets left over from summer, lash a couple together into a globe shape using wire or even cable ties. Wrap them in outdoor fairy lights and hang by the front door.Pimp your presents If you need to add some glamour to a parcel, turn to nature. Evergreen foliage such as ivy, fern leaves, sprigs of conifer or eucalyptus or even your Christmas tree make simple, stylish adornments: bind them to presents with twine or ribbon. Try graphic designer Twan van Keulen’s trick of cutting letters from large leathery leaves using a craft knife. Use the letters to make up names to stick on to parcels. Enlist children to help bake gingerbread men, then ice in festive colours and hang from the branches of your tree Last-minute gifts for last-minute guests If you’ve forgotten a gift for a loved one and don’t fancy shops full of panicked present-buyers, Alys Fowler suggests putting together bouquets garnis of fresh herbs. Cut small sprigs of rosemary, a bay leaf or two, sage, parsley and thyme from the garden (or from pots in the kitchen) and tie tightly with kitchen string at the base. For a neater look, wrap a bay leaf around the base of the bunch, then wrap the string tightly around several times.Alys also recommends digging up some bulbs that are just starting to poke their heads above the soil (snowdrops or early crocuses are ideal) and potting them into a pretty container small enough to perch on a windowsill: forced this way they should burst into flower for a little cheer before it all really happens outside. Happy Christmas!