When you meet the playwright and director Anthony Neilson, he tells you all the reasons you should not work with him. He is quite emphatic when he tells you that he inspires a searing loathing from actors who are subjected to his rehearsal process. Anthony takes a group of actors and an original premise and carves out a play over the course of six weeks. It is the very essence of live theatre – much is improvised and quite often actors are given rewrites just hours before coming on stage.Having just been in his new play Unreachable at the Royal Court, I know Anthony’s warning is not wrong – it’s an extraordinarily frustrating and anxiety-fuelled vortex you are thrown into. You come out the other side a little uncertain of what’s just happened. Matt Smith took a huge risk with Unreachable – the result is unmissable On top of that, being an actor with a disability means industry folk can be a little cagey about subjecting you to anything that could be interpreted as cruel. Or difficult. Let alone inappropriate. We are in an age of political correctness – a blessing in parts, but also a curse. When I went to meet Anthony one sunny afternoon at the Royal Court, it could have gone either way. Intriguingly, any reluctance he showed seemed to be more due to a concern that there would be a process of pussyfooting, whereby other actors would attempt to be extra nice to the poor little deaf girl. My deafness was potentially an unnecessary distraction from what we were there to do. It was refreshing to hear my disability being described as an inconvenience – but for all the right reasons.The role I played in Unreachable was a deaf role, as it should be. Anthony develops his characters around the actors he works with and he wasn’t going to cover that up like a conspiracy. He could have – he had full artistic licence and Anthony is not one to bend to expectation, whether societal or theatrical. There are moments in Unreachable where the comedy lies in poking fun at everyday reactions to deafness. (There is also an audience’s wall of fear to smash through first, before they feel comfortable in laughing.) My role in the play was not centred on disability, as though it is the very essence of my being. Instead, other aspects of my personality were drawn out and exaggerated – my directness, unapologetic honesty and enjoyment of pointed sarcasm. (I think.)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Not one to bend to expectation … Anthony Neilson. Photograph: Murdo MacLeod for the GuardianIs this a sign that the industry is finally recognising people with disabilities for what they are? Not just a tick in the box on the diversity shopping list, or a subject matter but well-rounded human beings? Just … people?One day, I heard something that bothered me. (Yes I can hear and still be deaf – strange I know.) An usher was explaining to some of the audience after the play that I was actually deaf in real life, not a hearing actor playing deaf. It turned out that this was one of the more regular questions of audiences after seeing the play.Was that because of the tendency to cast able-bodied actors in disabled parts? (A recent study found that 95% of disabled parts go to able-bodied actors.) Was it that the character didn’t fit their perceptions of deaf people? (Silent? Sign-language user? Lost and confused?) Or was it because I’ve worked so hard to improve the clarity of my voice that I now sound more hearing than deaf?This is where I am stuck between a rock and a hard place.There is no escaping that I am deaf. I can lip-read and hear with the use of hearing aids. Not as clearly as you, mind, but unlike you, I can crank up the volume. If my back is turned and you’re talking to me, I am probably not deliberately ignoring you. If you call out “house lights going dark” and forget to tell me, I may fall off the stage. Working with me doesn’t sound so terrible, does it? I do sound a little funny though. You’re going to shake your ears for a while as if they’ve got water in them, and then get on with it. It’s not you, it’s me. It’s a fact I’m comfortable with – I have a disability. There should be no shame in having a disability, only pride in the ownership of the fact. I am proud of who I am. I am proud of being deaf.But in the same way that being deaf doesn’t define all that I am as a person, I don’t want it to define the roles I play. It’s an incredibly limiting way to live and to work. And because I have a disability that I cannot hide (or fully disguise), that means I stay firmly in the bracket of “deaf actor”, rather than “actor”. In the rigidity of the casting process, that can mean fewer than 10 auditions per year.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Genevieve Barr with Arthur Hughes in The Solid Life of Sugar Water at the National Theatre in 2016. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianThe most common argument for the lack of auditions is that disabled parts have to first be written if disabled actors are to play them. Which is a poor semblance of an excuse. Then we get to the argument about the quality of disabled actors not being high enough. How do you know that?Did the producers of Me Before You or The Theory of Everything even audition actors who were wheelchair users or had motor neurone disease? The casting process needs to be equal. Rufus Norris, the artistic director of the National Theatre, recently raised the premise that the reason deaf and disabled actors don’t get cast is because we are not part of directors’ “inner circles”. That might be right. At least it’s an acknowledgement that we aren’t even being considered. Kudos to him for saying it so candidly.I could go on. But if I did, I couldn’t blame you if you stopped reading. It’s all a little dull and stale, a vicious merry-go-round. It doesn’t seem to be getting us anywhere. Life isn’t fair. We know that. So why is it important that we see more disabled characters in the media? Is it to tackle the stigma around disability? Or because we are striving for a level playing field in gender, race, disability and in every which way? Is it because one sixth of the UK’s population have a disability and therefore we should see that accurately represented on our stages and screens? Before Jack Thorne became a household name, the writer of Harry Potter and the Cursed Child – and Graeae’s The Solid Life of Sugar Water, in which I starred – wrote a blog about “transgressing” disability. He said that “it’s about doing things differently because that’s the way change happens”. Access all areas: the plays that took captioning and signing to their hearts The acting industry loves change. It has an immense power in its hands. And it thrives on finding the new, the different, whether that’s in the writing, the cinematography, the direction, the acting or the people. Look at the definition of creativity – “the use of original ideas”. Look at the definition of originality – “the quality of being unusual”. Look at the definition of art – “the application of creative skill or imagination”. Working with disabled talent encapsulates all of what they’re looking to achieve.It was liberating working with Anthony Neilson because he welcomes the new and the different. He doesn’t pursue change so much as disregard the norms. He takes actors from different walks of life and finds intrigue in how they interact and behave among one another. The unpredictability of the process went right down to the wire every day, right until the last performance. It felt like we were tap dancing on the needlepoint of change. It tested all of us and (I suspect) both debilitated and empowered us in different ways. Anthony makes people want to be brave and you can almost touch life’s ferocity and vitality when performing his work. It’s freeing and frighteningm and addictive for its joy. It can be an amazing feeling – the scope of possibility.Likewise, being disabled has a power. It constantly tests us and tries us, forces us to innovate and to endeavour even when we don’t want to. It can bring us to the very base of despair but when something is achieved, we know we have got there through our own hard work. I feel very lucky that, with Unreachable and The Solid Life of Sugar Water, people are starting to see the “normality” in how people with disabilities live their lives. I hope for a day where I can be recognised as a deaf actor and no longer feel that it stands in the way of doing what I love.