A new study has confirmed what many already suspected: the careers of Australia’s female authors are suffering due to gender bias within the literature industry. That female writers are still consistently being overlooked in the 21st century is not only unacceptable; it is embarrassing.The study, conducted jointly by Dr Julieanne Lamond from the Australian National University and Dr Melinda Harvey of Monash University, looks at reviewing patterns in leading Australian publications from 1985 to 2013. Male authors were found to be more likely than their female counterparts to have their work featured in published reviews. Despite the fact that two-thirds of published authors in Australia are women, two-thirds of the books being reviewed are by men – a ratio that has remained largely the same for 30 years. This should not be news to anyone who has been reading the book pages over the last five years. Since 2012, the annual Stella Count – run by the Stella Prize, which celebrates Australian women’s writing – has consistently demonstrated bias against women in the reviewing pages of Australia’s major newspapers. Australia’s statistics are part of a global trend; the international body Vida also releases annual stats that year on year have shown disparities between how writing by women and writing by men is received in Britain and the US. The reviewing pages are just the beginning. Male authors are also more likely to win awards and are significantly more likely to be included on course syllabuses at both high school and tertiary levels. In short, writing by men is considered more culturally important. The under-representation of women in our literary culture is an embarrassment to an industry that prides itself on being intellectual and progressive. It’s also puzzling when considered in the economic context of the publishing industry. It is well known that women are the largest group of readers and buyers of books. In the UK, women are responsible for buying two-thirds of the books sold in Britain; 50% of women consider themselves avid readers compared with 26% of men.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lucy Treloar, Myfanwy Jones and Peggy Frew, three of five Australian writers shortlisted for the 2016 Miles Franklin literary award. Photograph: Miles Franklin literary awardAlthough we haven’t done a corresponding study in Australia since 2006, when reading was found as a favourite activity of 73% of women compared with 50% of men, “women are the biggest book buyers” is a refrain I hear often from writers, booksellers and publishers. At writers’ festivals, audiences skew female too; Melbourne writers’ festival data shows just over 70% of our ticket holders are women.This all underlines a vast chasm between people who are consuming literature, who are mostly women, and those who are being lauded and rewarded for their work, who are mostly men. It’s entrenched unconscious gender bias that has bolstered a long-standing association between literary importance and male writers. This clearly isn’t an issue with merit; the work of women writers in Australia is extraordinary. The best Australian books I have read this year are by women: Emily Maguire’s An Isolated Incident; Jane Harper’s The Dry; Elspeth Muir’s Wasted; and Maxine Beneba Clarke’s yet-to-be-released The Hate Race. And, in 2016, it seems like women are finally making headway: women have dominated the Miles Franklin long and shortlists this year; women dominated at the Australian Book Industry awards; and Charlotte Wood’s incendiary feminist text has scooped many major prizes, including the Stella Prize and the Indie Book of the Year. Discussion about books by women is alive and well online, across blogs, Goodreads and online reviewing initiatives like the Australian Women Writers Challenge. The rise of these spaces may be undermining the power that books pages have long held. 10 inspiring female writers you need to read But the statistics show that we are still a long way from parity. Perhaps we need to consider it as an economic imperative. Women have a large buying power in our industry and that shouldn’t be ignored.As our local publishing industry continues to face challenges in a global book-buying economy, including the impending threat of changes to our parallel importation laws, we cannot afford to continue marginalising our largest consumer base. We need to encourage those in positions of power – the literary editors, festival directors and teachers – to increase the space given to women writers. 