Damien Hirst, scruffy in a black jumper, pulls a silly face for the camera while a Hitchcock-blond Gwyneth Paltrow strikes a pose in a Lanvin cocktail dress. The ultimate noughties cocktail party comes to life in Vogue 100: A Century of Style. The National Portrait Gallery’s exhibition for the magazine’s centenary is organised in reverse chronological order, with each room telling the story of a decade in the magazine. The effect is that each room is a Vogue vignette that captures the tone of that moment in glamorous portraits of that era’s most-invited.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Diana, Princess of Wales by Patrick Demarchelier.Princess Diana, photographed in her tiara by Patrick Demarchelier in 1990, is opposite the spiky-haired, Spice Girl-era Beckhams, photographed in a hotel corridor by Juergen Teller in 1999. In a portrait taken on the set of Four Weddings and a Funeral in 1994, Hugh Grant is already in character as the self-deprecating, posh Englishman, silver cufflink glinting on his white shirt as he brushes his floppy hair from his eyes, while a 23-year-old Jude Law is all knowing, cocky bravado in hair gel and denim two years later.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David and Victoria Beckham at the Midland Hotel, Manchester by Juergen Teller.Celebrity portraits make up the guest list, but fashion photography sets the mood. From Norman Parkinson’s imperious shot of model Anne Gunning in a pink mohair Jaeger coat outside the City Palace in Jaipur, to the cheeseburger-glamour of Bruce Weber’s 1980s Americana, and Corinne Day’s first shoots with Kate Moss – the pages that make up the Moss creation myth laid out here in full – this is fashion imagery that has created and moulded our aspirations, not just reflected them.  Kate Moss at home, London by Corinne Day. Photograph: Condé Nast Publications LtdEach room captures something about its time, and the show as a whole hooks enduring elements of British style. There are a lot of roses and horses. There are wellies and London pavements. There is a recurrence of fairytale imagery: from Natalia Vodianova in Alice-in-Wonderland bunny ears to Tim Walker’s surreal photograph of Karen Elson snuggled in bed with a crocodile. The heroine as adventurer and conquerer is a refrain that runs from from Cecil Beaton’s famous 1941 shot of a model in Digby Morton tweed surveying London’s bombed-out Temple Church, to a topless Kate Moss photographed Robinson-Crusoe-esque amid the driftwood on a Kenyan beach, in 2002.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fashion is Indestructible by Cecil Beaton. Photograph: Condé Nast Publications LtdThe Vogue world is a very narrow view of British style. It’s what a character in one of Edward St Aubyn’s autobiographical novels of upper-class English life calls “The Big World” – of People Who Matter, drawn up by antiquated rules. Women in Vogue wear a lot of organza and tulle, and there is always some handpainted De Gournay wallpaper or a marble fireplace to provide a ravishing backdrop. The faces are overwhelmingly white, and Nick Knight’s 1997 photographs of plus-size model Sara Morrison only highlight the extreme slenderness that is the Vogue norm. There is a rich world of diverse British style references not represented here.But despite its limitations, a bloodline of strong women is the core of this exhibition. Vogue has long played a role in defining the image of powerful women, in Britain and abroad. Think how The Devil Wears Prada, and the mythology of Anna Wintour that it riffed upon, has set the gold standard for our notions of how powerful women should look and behave. The portraits of successful women in this exhibition speak of how times have changed: contrast the iron-clad image of Margaret Thatcher, in black velvet on a great throne of an armchair in 1985, with Sofia Coppola, by Corinne Day, in 2000, in white vest and knickers on a hotel room floor amid a tangle of laptop cables. Lee Miller’s elegant, capable 1943 land girls share a confidence and attitude with Linda Evangelista 48 years later, chin tilted imperiously heavenward in a Versace cape fit for a superhero. For the millennium issue, the profile of Kate Moss is instantly recognisable – the messy bun, the slim neck, and her floating head reproduced in silhouette, like a queen on a coin. To paraphrase Coco Chanel: fashion changes, but le style anglais endures.Vogue 100: A Century of Style is at the National Portrait Gallery, London WC2 from 11 February until 22 May 2016. Sponsored by Leon Max.