The fat director takes another swig of tempranillo and looks around at the 18 shy Chinese Australian girls sitting around two large lazy susan tables piled up with dumplings, sweet and sour pork, congee, duck and other delicious food that they have laid out in a banquet for us in a hotel at the Nanjing Convention Centre.“Bottoms up ladies, we want you to speak your mind and have the conversation flow on stage tomorrow. Please say whatever you want, talk about yourselves, ask the males any questions you want, argue with each other, that is all good. You have flown 8000km to be on stage in front of 50 million viewers, tomorrow will be your time to shine. Don’t come here to clam up on stage ... get to know each other now so that you can speak openly tomorrow! Gan Bei!”We clink our glasses, more bottles of wine are opened for us and the fat director continues to speak to us in Mandarin, but now with a sternness in his voice.“Now just remember that there are some things that you are forbidden from mentioning: politics, religion, sex, pornography, violence, international relations or the Chinese government, and don’t discriminate against other nations. If you mention any of these topics, you will be escorted off stage. We will edit it out. It will be cut and we will have you replaced with another contestant.”If You Are the One's Meng Fei: 'Looking for beauty is universal for men' I take a gulp and hope that no one has noticed that I’m still only on my first glass of tempranillo. I need to be sober so that I could be fully alert tomorrow for a long day of filming.It seemed so strange how I ended up in this room, for the recording of If You Are the One – Australian Special in Nanjing. With audiences of up to 50 million, it’s the biggest dating show in the world. It started out as a joke. My girlfriends whipped out an iPhone at Balmoral Beach after we had seen the advertisements on SBS2 seeking Mandarin speaking Australian female and male contestants to take part. They recorded a one minute clip of me introducing myself in Mandarin, champagne glass in hand, and sent it off. I thought that was the end of that.Then when I read an email in my junk mail box a month later, inviting me to attend the interview auditions in Sydney, I thought it would be the perfect opportunity for me to practice my Mandarin. The next day I received an email from Jiangsu television studios informing me that I was pre-selected. I took a deep breath and thought to myself, “shit just got real”.The next two weeks I cracked down on my Mandarin, practising daily with my parents. As Shanghainese dialect speakers at home, it was quite an adjustment for them too.The producers were constantly in contact with me requesting further information and data. They wanted answers to questions such as “which part of a man’s body do you like the most?”, “what qualities are you looking for in a man?”, “how much money do you earn and do you want your partner to earn more than you?” They asked for details of my previous relationships, for photographs of me without make up on, for work certificates. You name it. The day finally arrives. We arrive at the studio after a three-hour hair and makeup session in a convention centre that has been done up to become the set of If You Are The One. There are wires poking out everywhere, the studio audience have all arrived and my two Australian friends have flown in just to support me.I hug the other contestants backstage. The girls boost each other up emotionally by saying how good we each look, and that we’ll see each other on the other side. We know everything is about to change as soon as we step out there, in front of 50 million viewers in China, not counting the international broadcast.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Feng Guo and Ben McMahon (second from left) with friends on the set of If You Are The One Photograph: Alice Jordan-BairdMaybe we will find love. Maybe we won’t. We have no idea what is about to happen. The fat director is also sweating. He encourages us to drink wine, and as some of girls do he takes a swig from the bottle. The atmosphere is tense. We can hear the studio audience clap wildly as the infamous host Meng Fei walks on stage. The moment has come. We walk out on stage in pairs, hand in hand, and take our place at the podium. Mine is number 19 and the entire time I’m focusing on not tripping on the slippery ground. We have all been mandated to wear heels. The lights are bright and pressure is intense. There is nowhere to sit and if we want to comment or ask a question, we raise our hands and wait for Meng Fei to address us.  By the time Ben McMahon comes on stage as male contestant number three, I throw out my initial strategy of waiting until at least five of the 10 guys have been on stage. I am thinking to myself, how do I know if they will be any better? The first moment we see the male contestants is when they walk on stage, and we have no prior information about them whatsoever. The thoughts running through my head are, quite frankly, that Ben seems cute, my feet are aching, my makeup is melting, I have run out of vocabulary, I have said everything that I had previously prepared. I need to get off this stage before I make a fool out of myself! And that was it. We matched. I chose him; he chose me. We’re the winners.The extent of our “relationship” to date has been messaging each other. Ben lives in Melbourne, so we haven’t seen each other for 10 weeks. I feel really excited to meet him this weekend, I hope that my memory of him being a funny, intelligent and personable young man serves me right. We only had one date in Shanghai the day after filming and next week we are flying to the Maldives to enjoy the free trip we won together. This seems so bizarre to me – it is like going on a honeymoon after one date.But then the whole journey has been completely bizarre, from beginning to end. I never thought that at age 26, I would fly to China to be a contestant on the worldwide phenomenon that If You Are The One has become. I never thought that a Chinese director would forbid me from discussing the Chinese Communist party, nor did I think that I would appear on international television in front of twice the population of Australia. I have been reminded of how lucky we are to live in a country that prizes freedom of speech. I didn’t think I would get a free trip out of it, let alone meet a guy who can speak fluent Mandarin after waking up from a coma – that’s Ben, another bizarre twist in the tale. But that’s the weird and wonderful thing about taking an impromptu risk. You never know what will come of it, and you never know until you try. • The Australian specials of If You Are the One air on SBS 2, at 7.30pm Sunday 14 February and 7.30pm Sunday 21 February