In a speech at a mosque in Baltimore, Maryland, yesterday, President Obama declared that “our TV shows should have Muslim characters that are unrelated to national security”. As with anything that Obama says about Muslims that’s not related to vaporizing them with a drone strike, it didn’t go over too well with conservatives. That wasn’t much of a surprise, as any show of compassion or empathy from the president is seen by the rightwing as cowardice or worse, treason. What was surprising, however, was that Obama would point to television as a means of easing cultural and religious tension, when it’s often used for exactly the opposite purpose.One could point to instances in which TV was the harbinger of a more just, equal society. Star Trek featured a landmark interracial kiss between William Shatner and Nichelle Nichols in the late 1960s on NBC primetime. Sitcoms like Family Matters, Martin and The Cosby Show transmitted black culture across the country, into the homes of people who might not have ever met a black family otherwise. But TV can also be used to reinforce stereotypes just as often. NBC’s short-lived sitcom Outsourced got nuked by critics for its reliance on cliched characterizations of Indian people working in a call center. And every time a person of color pops up on an otherwise white show to play a criminal or cannon fodder for the bad guy, it further cements the idea that brown and black people are crooks or extraneous.For Muslim Americans, the situation is even more dire. As Obama pointed out in his speech yesterday, portrayals of Muslims trend toward the kind of thing you see on Homeland – duplicitous spies or bloodthirsty terrorists. Homeland producer Howard Gordon is also responsible for terrorism action drama 24 and FX’s Tyrant. Tyrant is an interesting case study because it could be considered a typical family drama. Adam Rayner (of course, he’s not an Arab) plays Bassam Al-Fayeed, a pediatrician who lives with his wife and children in Pasadena, California. Oh, but wait! He’s not just a doctor. He’s also the son of a brutal Middle Eastern dictator and has been hiding this fact for years. After his father dies, he has to go back to the fictional Arab nation from which he came to make things right and avoid getting blown up.'Homeland is racist': artists sneak subversive graffiti on to TV show There’s nothing inherently offensive in that synopsis (other than the lead of a TV series about an Arab family being played by a white Englishman) but what it does say is that your Muslim neighbors might not be trustworthy. Homeland, 24 and Tyrant all feature Muslim characters embroiled in espionage or affairs of state. Tyrant is specifically about a family that lies about where they’re actually from and who they actually are. Pulpy stories such as these are fine in a vacuum, but what the president points out is that those are the only stories there are.The question then becomes, where is the Muslim Modern Family or Family Matters or Fresh Off the Boat? When will there be one show in the vast array of broadcast, cable and streaming programming that’s willing and able to portray Muslim characters as normal people and not spies or extremists? There are certainly individuals and interest groups trying to make the president’s vision a reality. Most (Muslims On Screen and Television) is a collaborative venture of the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institute, Gallup’s the Muslim West Facts Project, and others which seeks to offer the entertainment community resources and information on Islam and Arab culture in order to keep portrayals of Muslims from drifting into caricature. There’s a database of news stories and features on Muslim Americans, statistics, infographics and research. There are also testimonials from Hollywood figures who have used Most in their work. There are producers, writers, academics and executives in the carousel of statements, but the most intriguing one is the first one that pops up: Howard Gordon.“We need to present American and other Muslims as characters other than terrorists. Most is a great resource to get writers and content creators to think about incorporating Muslims into story lines in novel ways, and to encourage more Muslims to participate in storytelling in the media,” he says in his testimonial. At least you can say Gordon is engaging and making an effort to broaden the scope of Muslim involvement in his shows, but when Muslims are exclusively seen through the lens of global terrorism, it’s hard to say that there’s much that’s novel happening on screen. Even on Lost, character Sayid was a member of the Iraqi Republican Guard and tortured people as a part of his job.As with any diversity issue, be it with African Americans, Hispanics, Asian Americans, women or the LGBTQ community, the only lasting solution to the problem is to hire writers from those groups to create stories that are authentic to their experience. As I’ve said many times in the past, the main reason why Empire works is because it has a strong strain of black creativity behind the camera. Find talented Muslim American writers, directors and producers. And if they don’t exist (and I guarantee you that they do exist), then encourage and cultivate the next generation of Muslim film-makers. The best, most helpful research is living. Until we open the doors of Hollywood to more varied types of people, we’ll continue to have to have our presidents give speeches. We’ll keep dealing with controversies like #OscarsSoWhite. Howard Gordon can write a great thriller, but it remains to be seen if he can write a Muslim without a gun.