It is recognised, in intellectual circles, that 2004’s Brat Camp was some of the finest TV ever made. I don’t know which genius started the trend of frightening the insubordination out of naughty teens by sending them somewhere remote to learn a lesson, but they created something truly magnificent. Now, hunkering down somewhere in the depths of the schedules, Tribal Teens … Here Comes Trouble has revived the ting and, with a tear of gratitude in my eye, I applaud it.Some time may have passed since a production company last sent children into a remote outpost to teach ’em a thing or two, but there’s been a televisual echo pretty much every year since, whether it’s Bruce Parry’s Tribe, Bear Grylls, or something other. These sorts of shows have a reliable formula. An overindulged westerner goes to a desert, or a jungle, or a desolate hillside and is filmed looking despondent and/or flustered as they attempt some manual labour. Local hosts watch on patiently, wondering why no one ever taught this pale-faced wazzock how to pound leaves. Eventually, the subject is so depleted by hunger and exhaustion they break down and tearfully claim that these humble tribespeople have taught them the value of something or other. At their root, stripped-back-to-basics, stick-and-mud-heavy programmes ask one question: is progress good or bad?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Jungle queen’ Alex.On Tribal Teens, Ethan and Alex are sent to Peru to live with the Ashánika tribe for crimes of laziness and being spoilt. Ethan, who’s snidely dismissed by the voiceover as a bone-idle layabout, hasn’t got much on right now. Having dropped out of college, he tends to occupy his time by rising at midday, shuffling on to his mum’s sofa and settling himself in front of the Xbox for several hours at a time. If there were a competition rewarding inactivity, he says, he probably wouldn’t actually get it together to enter, such is the extent of his laziness.It must be hard for anyone emotionally invested in Ethan’s future to watch him stagnate but, I’ve gotta say, I like the cut of this kid’s gib. His parents and teachers might view him as a hopeless case, but another way to look at Ethan is as a revolutionary. What is there for Ethan to get up for, in these crazy, mixed-up times, other than the steady dopamine drip of Assassin’s Creed 4? Fight the good fight, Ethan, with passive indifference. Alex, meanwhile, is another kettle of fish. Haughty, rude, with the affected superiority of a newly ensconced dictator and the cold eyes of a tiger shark, this girl will go far. Hey tribal leader, leave those kids alone!This, at least, was the position I took before it became impossible to ignore what selfish little twerps the younger generation are. Either way it’s delicious watching the horror unfold. I have never felt better about myself than when watching Alex throw a tantrum at the prospect of eating fish for breakfast. Alex, you see, has seemingly never been told that she’ll get what she’s bloody well given. Equally fun is watching Ethan fail to do anything much at all, puff out his cheeks and feebly kick some pebbles about whenever someone mentions that, maybe, if he feels like it, he might like to help his new tribe find a bit of dinner. Inevitably, though, after a week of working together, pulling their weight and having to piss in a hole in the ground, Alex and Ethan learn some valuable lessons. “I started out as a pampered princess,” Alex says with a terrifying smile, “but now I’m a jungle queen.” Be afraid, be very afraid.Tuesday, 9pm, Channel 5