John Humphrys was at the top of his game on the Panama Papers on Radio 4’s Today programme on Thursday, but for some reason it was another exchange, about acclaimed best selling game Everybody’s Gone To The Rapture, that caused a social media followup.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Is the pub open yet?In an item about the Bafta games awards, taking place tonight, Humphrys was moved to recall another best-selling game which he couldn’t quite pin down.“I’m trying to remember the name of that game, years and years ago in the very early days of gaming when kids were building villages and towns?” said “Minecraft?” asked the game’s co-creator, Jessica Curry. “Minecraft!” confirmed Humphrys, a self confessed “late adopter” and “ex-luddite” (listen to the exchange after 2hrs 23 mins here).Late adopter maybe, but Humphrys is no stranger to leaving his comfort zone behind. Here are a few of our favourite Humphrys takes on new technology moments.On Channel 4’s Gadget Man, he took to trying out various different ways of getting to work, including a Twike, and an Elliptigo . In the interests of impartiality, Humphrys steered a course down the centre of the roadHe was also suitably dismissive of Google Glass: “Am I being cynical?” Unlike the Google flop, he proved to be way ahead of his time.Back on the Today programme earlier this year, Humphrys joined Kasabian on stage at the Brixton Academy, with a little help from virtual reality. “I’m afraid of falling off because I am so high up in the street,” said an only occasionally befuddled Humphrys.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest An even bigger stage than the Today programmeHumphrys turned the table on new technology in 2014 when he interviewed Eugene Goostman, said to have been the first chatbot to pass the Turing Test, which investigates whether people can detect if they are talking to machines or humans.The Radio 4 man plays ball, up to a point, before picking up his bat and walking home.Humphrys eventually pulled the plug“Do you like computer games by the way?” asks Eugene. “No,” replies Humphrys. “I’m just not interested in you really. Goodbye.”He should have asked him for a game of Minecraft instead.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Virtual reality newsreaders? It’ll never take off.