Riccardo Tisci, creative director at Givenchy since 2005, has exited the French brand.The designer, who is much-liked in the industry, left at the end of January. His menswear and couture collections shown together in Paris on 20 January were his last collection as a Givenchy designer. It is understood that Tisci’s final designs will be seen on the red carpet – at present, gowns for the Grammy awards and the Oscars, created by Tisci with Givenchy, are being made by the atelier.Tisci’s replacement is still unknown, but several high-profile designers are currently on the market including Hedi Slimane, who left Saint Laurent last year, and Clare Weight Keller, who announced last week that she would be leaving Chloé. Olivier Rousteing, currently at Balmain (and with a starry Instagram following that includes the Kardashians and Hadids) may also be on the shortlist.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kim Kardashian in Givenchy, with Kanye West at the 2013 Met Ball. Photograph: David Fisher/REX/ShutterstockIt is rumoured that Tisci exited Givenchy to take up a new role at Versace. While the Italian brand’s representatives declined to comment, Women’s Wear Daily reported last month on speculation of talks between the designer and the brand. Tisci, who was born in northern Italy, is friends with Donatella Versace and – in a move that puzzled some insiders – cast her in a Givenchy campaign in 2015. At the time of the campaign, Versace commented: “Riccardo Tisci is extremely talented and, above all, my dear friend. We are family. I want to get rid of the old system, work together, support each other and make fashion a true global community.”The Tisci reign was lucrative for Givenchy, which is owned by the LVMH luxury conglomerate. It is thought that the house expanded sixfold during the time he was the designer, with employees rising from 290 in 2005 to more than 930 now.Bernard Arnault, the CEO of LVMH, said in a statement: “The chapter Riccardo Tisci has written with the house of Givenchy over the last 12 years represents an incredible vision to sustain its continuous success, and I would like to warmly thank him for his core contribution to the house’s development.” Tisci’s comments gave nothing away: “I want to thank the LVMH group and monsieur Bernard Arnault for giving me the platform to express my creativity over the years. I now wish to focus on my personal interests and passions.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A model on the Givenchy Men’s and couture AW17 catwalk. Photograph: Francois Mori/AP      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Riccardo Tisci takes a bow. Photograph: Etienne Laurent/EPADuring his time at Givenchy, Tisci revived the house for a new generation of luxury consumers. He injected streetwear into a house that previously (whether under its founder Hubert de Givenchy or other designers including Alexander McQueen or Julian McDonald) had glamour at its heart. If, once, Givenchy’s heyday was seen to be Audrey Hepburn dressed by Hubert in the 1960s, Tisci – well-known as a hip-hop fan – rewrote the script by adding gritty street culture elements far from the rarified world that Hepburn had known.During his tenure, Tisci introduced a gothic feel (autumn/winter 2012) to an aesthetic influenced by the Mexican subculture chola, with styling that resembled singer FKA Twigs (autumn/winter 2015). His menswear collection, which he started at Givenchy in 2008, became a highlight, with collections influenced by basketball, the American flag and graffiti. His rottweiler T-shirts, for autumn/winter 2012, became a cult item.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Donatella Versace in the Givenchy 2015 ad campaign. Photograph: GivenchyTisci also championed a diverse range of women and men to wear his clothes – across age, race and gender. He was one of the first designers to cast a transgender model: Lea T appeared in the autumn/winter 2010 Givenchy campaign. Tisci is democratic in his muses, being one of the first designers to embrace reality TV star Kim Kardashian, following a friendship with her husband Kanye West. He designed Kardashian’s wedding dress when the couple were married in 2015.According to sources, his departure is effective as of 31 January following the expiration of his employment agreement.