A darkened bar at the Royal Albert Hall has been chosen as the location to photograph David Pickard, the new head of the Proms, who is going to be living in this place (the hall, not the bar) for much of the summer. He is positioned in front of an array of spotlights. “You’ll look like a rock star,” the BBC publicist tells him. “Well, that’ll be a first,” he replies.At 56, the former general director of Glyndebourne Opera is lean, clever, hugely fluent but pleasingly self-deprecating – the self-deprecation of someone with lots of confidence. Humour is never far from the surface. When I tell him that I like to take my son to the Proms to encourage an interest in classical music and that I took him to Havergal Brian’s bombastic “Gothic” Symphony No 1 a couple of years ago, Pickard says, without missing a beat, “Has he forgiven you?”Pickard this week unveiled his first Proms season. Except that, after just five months in the job, it isn’t really quite his. “It’s the work of many people,” he admits, not least Roger Wright, who stepped down in 2014, and Edward Blakeman, who did the job for a year while the BBC sought a new director. “About 50% of it was in place by the time I engaged with it,” says Pickard. “It’s a mixture.”The BBC Proms 2016: few surprises, but a solid programme A potent mixture of course – music inspired by Shakespeare to mark the 400th anniversary of his death; a celebration of the cello, with no fewer than 10 concertos; lots of South American music to tie in with the Rio Olympics; a David Bowie Prom – but not quite the full Pickardian package. Lead times in classical music are such that it will be a season or two before we have that.Pickard does, though, claim the big themes in this year’s season. He has also taken the decision to loosen the reliance on the traditional venues – the Albert Hall and Cadogan Hall. “Both are wonderful places to hear concerts, but also there are certain things about which you think, ‘Wouldn’t it be lovely if we could do it there?’.” Rossini’s delightfully idiosyncratic Petite Messe Solennelle will be heard amid the ornate splendour of the chapel of the Old Royal Naval College in Greenwich; Shakespeare-inspired music by late-17th English composers in the Sam Wanamaker Playhouse at the Globe theatre; contemporary music at the Roundhouse in Camden; Steve Reich at a disused multistorey car park in Peckham.This wanderlust is promising, but Pickard also recognises that you have to respect what the Proms stand for, and take the audience with you. “You don’t come into the Proms and say: ‘Next year we’re not going to be in the Albert Hall, we’re going to be in the Festival Hall, it’s all going to be 21st-century music, we’re not going to use any BBC orchestras, and Simon Rattle is going to curate the whole thing.’ It really doesn’t work like that.” One concert in a car park is adventurous; 10 would be career suicide.He has no plans to move the Proms away from their central focus on classical music. He calculates that around 10 of the 90 or so concerts are non-classical, and thinks that proportion will stay roughly the same, though he acknowledges the non-classical events could be even more wide-ranging. “There are areas that it would be nice to explore in the future,” he says. “For instance, I accept that in world music there are probably great riches out there to be discovered.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The last night of the Proms at the Royal Albert Hall, London, in 2012. Photograph: Christie Goodwin/Redferns via Getty ImagesTraditionalists will be delighted to hear that the flag-waving, love-it-or-loathe-it Last Night is safe. “That’s part of the tradition of the Proms,” he says. “People who don’t like it should just enjoy the other 89 concerts. You can get too hung up on it.”With contemporary music, he says he doesn’t want to play a “numbers game” or be judged by how many new commissions are played in a season. More significant is that works get second and third performances. “It’s important to make sure these pieces aren’t just a flash in the pan.” He points out that opera is now successfully bedding new pieces into the repertoire, and says classical music needs to learn the same trick.Pickard was a surprise choice for the post – this is his first broadcasting job – but he says that has been the case throughout his career. “If you look when I was appointed at Glyndebourne, the headline was ‘David Who?’. I’m used to being a surprise, and I’m very proud of that, because what’s enriched me is that I haven’t always stuck with one art form. I’ve done two opera companies, an orchestra, three festivals and a theatre company.”Pickard studied music at Cambridge; worked as an assistant company manager at the Royal Opera House for five years; spent three years at the Open Air theatre, one of three admin staff in a hut in Regent’s Park; had a tricky time in his late 20s running Kent Opera, which collapsed when the Arts Council controversially withdrew its funding; worked on a couple of arts festivals; moved to the OAE in 1993, and then to Glyndebourne in 2001. As he says, his is a rounded career in music. “It’s prepared me for a lot of different sorts of organisations. I’ve just spent 14 years working for a family-run firm, and before that I worked for an organisation that was run by 80 of its players. The BBC is a walk in the park compared to those two.”He was also seen as someone who would develop the Proms by evolution rather than revolution. “I’m going in with thoughts and ideas about how I want it to develop, but I don’t think the Proms is in such a state that it needs rapid reinvention.” He says the only time it was revolutionised was when the committed modernist William Glock became director (replacing the committee that had previously run the Proms) in 1960. He clearly admires Glock’s ambition, but doesn’t envisage quite such a radical break with the past. “I don’t think you can completely change it, but there’s scope to change directions and emphasise certain things.”Pickard hopes in future to avoid “anniversaritis”, which sees great swaths of one composer’s music being played to mark a birth or death. He prefers to trace connections and let broad themes emerge. The Shakespeare element, with Bard-inspired music by composers ranging from Purcell to Duke Ellington, is an example of that conceptual thinking. He is also keen for each season not to be seen as separate, and applauds former Proms director Nicholas Kenyon’s idea of doing The Ring Cycle over a four-year period. “There are some things that I’m plotting that will try to take the audience on a journey over two, three, four years with a certain strand or composer.”But Pickard stresses that attempts to impose a grand plan can only go so far. Visiting orchestras tend to specify what they want to play; Glyndebourne, as he is aware from his previous role, will usually choose what production to bring for their annual visit – this year it’s The Barber of Seville. “It really isn’t a blank sheet of paper where David Pickard, the great guru, says: ‘And now we’re going to do this’,” he says. “It’s about conversations, dialogue, using other people’s ideas, being creative about what you have and adding things in that create something else.”I ask him how he has adapted to life at the BBC. “It feels rather small, strangely. I have a fantastic team in the Proms office, and we all sit in one room and work very closely together. Glyndebourne had 150 employees who I was responsible for. I don’t have anything like that number at the BBC. I feel like I’m back in Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment territory in terms of the scale of it” – Pickard ran the OAE in the 1990s. “It’s also nice to be working for a bit of the BBC that everyone in the organisation values.” He recognises that it is a trump card in the current discussions over the renewal of the BBC’s charter. “The Proms exemplifies what the BBC can do that you couldn’t do commercially.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Duke Ellington’s jazz tribute to Shakespeare will feature in Prom 28. Photograph: Michael Ochs ArchivesThe budget for the Proms is £10m, of which half comes from ticket sales. With the BBC having to cut back, will that be threatened? “We are already under quite tough scrutiny and being pressured to save costs where we can. But think about where I’ve come from: there is nothing new there. You cut your cloth to fit what you have. I enjoy the challenge of saying, ‘How can we still be creative, but not make it cost quite so much?’”He says the key is to be popular enough to bring in the income from ticket sales without playing nothing but populist programmes. “I’ve got to have enough in the season to make sure we take that £5m from the box office, but I’ve also got to have a season that feels distinctive and unusual. It’s swings and roundabouts, and the difference on each prom can be enormous. There are certain proms in which a small number of players in the orchestra might play popular repertoire, for which seats are priced reasonably high, and which fill the Albert Hall. But you don’t want to stop doing the Zemlinsky Lyric Symphony, which is a big piece which probably won’t sell quite so well.”He says his relationship with Alan Davey, the controller of Radio 3 whom he reports to, is working well. “We seem to share the same vision of what the Proms should be and what Radio 3 should be. We talk a bit about certain areas, but by and large he is happy to let me get on and deliver the Proms.”As he is new to broadcasting, Pickard says he is pleased to have Davey there in the background. “I probably couldn’t do this job unless I felt there was someone like that above me, who was supporting me all the way.” For half his 16-year stint as controller of Radio 3, Wright did both jobs, but it sounds as if Davey and Pickard have defined their separate areas of responsibility and are not fighting for control. Not yet anyway.Two middle-aged white men running the show – not perhaps a great advertisement for the diversity that classical music craves? He pauses, almost for the first time. “I don’t know how to answer that one,” he says, instead asking a question of his own: “Is it maybe more about what we think rather than who we are?” A fair point – it should be possible to think outside your demographic box. Then he finds the necessary words: “It would be great if at some point in the future the director of the Proms was a woman. I can’t answer for the BBC’s appointments, but we all have to be mindful that we need greater diversity in the workforce.”Proms 2016 to feature performance on top floor of Peckham car park He knows he will need a thick skin as head of the Proms – the squeals from traditionalists over a prom inspired by Strictly Come Dancing give an early indication of that. “Everyone has a view on what the Proms should be,” he says, “and there is sure to be criticism. All my predecessors had to face that.”Given the diversity of views, how ultimately will he judge success? “By what I – and a few people close to me whose views I respect – feel at the end of each concert,” he says. “It’s one of the very hard things if you work in the arts. Probably the worst thing to do is to read a review. I used to say at Glyndebourne that you must always retain what your opinion is of a show, because you have to do it both ways round. The danger is you read a bad review and say ‘That’s rubbish!’, and then you read a good review of something that was rubbish and say “Absolutely right!’. You’ve got to be clear in your own mind about what’s good and what isn’t.”• The Proms begin on 15 July. Booking opens on 7 May. bbc.co.uk/proms