My coming-out letter was a lined sheet of A4 paper, covered in scrawls of turquoise gel pen. Addressed to “Ma”, I don’t remember writing it, but I do remember feeling sick with nerves as I placed it on the floor next to her bedroom door. I was 17, we had just had a shouting match, something pretty common in a home where she, a full-time assistant headteacher, was single-handedly raising three daughters.This time, the argument was over my refusal to go on a school trip to Iceland. I insisted it was too expensive, but she’d already paid a £150 deposit. After slamming doors in hormonal rage, I wondered if these regular schisms weren’t just down to me being a brat, but because I’d been hiding part of me from her for so long.Beginning “I’m sorry that I’ve pissed you off,” I promised to reimburse her £150, continuing: “The following is not an excuse, but maybe an explanation as to why I seem isolated and secretive at times … it could very well explain my behaviour for the past 17 years! Really, you should have worked it out for yourself.”I followed that with a list, in no particular order: my obsession with Girls Aloud; the copies of FHM’s annual 100 Sexiest Women supplement on my bedroom floor; the phase in which, aged seven, I pretended to be a boy called Billy and implored Ma to take me to several hairdressers until one agreed to shave my hair into a Tintin crew cut; the rainbow motifs on my clothes; the fact I’d never had a proper boyfriend; my, um, “disregard for feminine convention”; my ring fingers longer than my indices; and, to close, a simple, “I used to lick my sisters’ friends.” Prior to my letter, I’d been 'out' at school for two years, and the new teasing was nothing like before It’s testament to how much sex I wasn’t having, and to my naivety in general, that a) I didn’t understand the last line could be read as a euphemism, b) I ascribed sexual intent to any of the above, even something any feral four-year-old can do, eg lick her older sisters’ friends’ faces, and c) prompted by a discussion on The L Word, I had found online the scientific study that correlated finger size ratios with homosexuality.I nobly explained: “Ideally I will be attracted to someone for their personality as an individual rather than their genitals,” continuing, “I don’t really want to discuss the intricacies of my sex life, but I will let you know that it is all consenting and safe.” At this stage, I’d had only two sexual experiences with other young women, the first so fumbling that the second said, in bewilderment: “You’ve never done this before, have you?”However, inspired by Shane from The L Word (the first series had just finished), I framed myself, even to my mother, as a humblebraggy Lothario. After years of being hurt by boys who’d learned about sex via online porn and American Pie, I conferred a nonsensical benefit upon my newly discovered attraction to girls. The illogic went: no longer would I be prey to boys stringing me along then ignoring, manipulating and exploiting me, because I could be the bad guy this time. But in coming out to my family, my sexuality lost its spikiness, and I soon learned that aping some men’s worst traits definitely isn’t a prerequisite for dating girls.Prior to my letter, I’d been “out” at school for two years, and the new teasing was nothing like the sexualised bullying I had experienced before. By stepping outside of what was expected of girls, I felt liberated. I disappeared from boys’ gaze, losing weight, wearing baggy clothes to hide anything left that was sticking out and using a razor to chop myself a DIY mullet. I was naive, skiving off school to get stoned, going to gay bars underage and alone, making online girlfriends who, I later discovered, had catfished me.A moment that changed me: refusing a place at private school | Maurice McLeod Section 28 was in place throughout my schooling. I’d had access to such modern amenities as school plays, astroturf, bunsen burners, a swimming pool, interactive white boards and even a trip to Iceland. Yet, legally, no teacher could say to me about my sexuality, “Hey, I know, and it’s OK.” I now know my mum was adhering to section 28, too. My letter flatters her as “liberal, accepting and generous”, but the first thing she asked of me was that I not become a butch lesbian. Eye contact wasn’t immediate, but she soon softened. Within weeks she’d told her own parents – who were totally cool with it – and we’d stopped arguing so much. One morning, while getting a lift to school, I told her I’d be going on a date with a girl. And I felt like an actual adult.I wrote that green-blue coming-out letter to tell my truth in one go, without having to see my mum’s face as she read it. We’d given each other such hell over such petty, transient things; what if she screamed at me about something I couldn’t change: my sexuality? But I also wrote that letter because that was how, in 2005, pre-group text, my family would keep each other up to date.My mum later told me of her tears. She worried, at first, that I’d never have kids. But over the years, we’ve both learned that my biggest obstacle to having kids is financial, rather than sexual. Secondly, she was terrified about “how the world is going to treat you”, which is why she prefers me to look feminine, to “pass” in a world that punishes women even when they’re doing everything right. It’s not been all joy and sunshine, but with a family like mine, I’m definitely one of the lucky ones – and I never had to pay back that £150.