Fractal, HullDespite its large student populace and upcoming post as UK city of culture, Hull lacks a strong reputation when it comes to clubbing. Enterprising local promoters Fractal are wisely sidestepping the city’s sticky nightspots, and instead throwing parties in local gig venue The Adelphi. This might necessitate a midnight curfew, but it also means an appreciative and enthusiastic crowd, fresh out of the office and into the rave, which this evening is in the hands of Palms Trax. Since his first release in 2013 on the then-burgeoning Lobster Theremin, Jay Donaldson’s music has blended lo-fi processes with colourful and distinctive melodies, landing somewhere between the rough aesthetic of Legowelt and distinctive, Chicago-informed grooves. Having long graduated from a work-experience position at Phonica Records, Donaldson’s exemplary taste and knowledge beyond his years guarantee a memorable few pints after work.The Adelphi, Fri JTConvergence Festival, LondonAs well as gigs from the excellent likes of Laura Cannell and Omar Souleyman – plus a starry celebration of Gil-Scott Heron – there’s a load of adventurous dance at this two-week fest. Most banging of all will be Factory Floor and Shit Robot, supported by the superb Karen Gwyer, who sucks you along a wormhole of acidic analogue techno, and Kara-Lis Coverdale, whose apparently beatific ambient work has a sinister undertow. Also worth checking out are Autrenoir, a new duo featuring French noise-techno producer Mondkopf, plus astral funk from the Gaslamp Killer and a bombastic closing party with James Lavelle and Circle Sky.Various venues, Thu to 20 MarBBBloc, MineheadThe final weekender at Butlins holiday camp before Bloc’s organisers create their new London “superclub”. As always, the list of visiting artists is ice-cold awesome, leaving serious electronic music heads gasping for air. Techno is abundant, but expansive in range: Detroit and Berlin powerhouses from Jeff Mills to Ben Klock, mass-destructive UK technician Powell, and outliers such as Ukraine’s Stanislav Tolkachev and Rome’s Lory D. There’s proper electro in spades, a respectable house offering, ghetto-tech, classic jungle and drum’n’bass, a gathering of the key players in new-wave grime and, of course, ubiquitous rave pioneers Altern-8. Fey, wider-appeal acts such as Thom Yorke and Four Tet almost seem out of place against this gaping chasm of underground music: it’s all about sets from the world’s unknown and untouchable DJs, and performances by such unsettling experimentalists as Holly Herndon and Aurora Halal.Butlins Minehead, Fri to 13 MarGTUnleash x Lessizmore, LondonA headline slot here for Margaret Dygas, one of the brightest voices in minimal techno. Her skill lies in producing tracks, such as last year’s Popular Religions, where a grid of mechanical pulses is dolloped with glitches, brass, Latin percussion or unidentifiable noise, sending it – and dancers – thrillingly sideways. This is a DJ tactic, too: at a recent Fabric set she let a scream of glorious jazz fill the space for what felt like minutes before the bass returned. Also DJing is Cesar Merveille, while DoubtingThomas plays live.Secret location, FriBBPulse & Slvr, EdinburghModule Overload, Ashley Burchett’s debut EP as Ø [Phase], was initially recorded on a synth the size of a car stereo. After being cut as a demo to acetate, it was soon being played by Steve Bicknell at Lost, a dearly departed London night with a folklore that includes hosting Jeff Mills on the floor and being forced to cancel on Richie Hawtin at the last minute because of an IRA bomb scare. The EP was later released in 2000 on Bicknell’s Cosmic label, and Burchett has been knocking out slick, peak-hour techno ever since. Find him here alongside the usual residents.La Belle Angèle, FriSC