Going through divorce is hard and when it’s your child getting divorced you may have to be a supportive parent as well as consoling grandparent.Be loyal. That doesn’t mean condoning or ignoring bad behaviour, especially if this is what ended the marriage. It’s letting them know that you’re there for them, no matter what. You can still love and support them while saying that you don’t agree with deception, lying or nastiness and in taking that stance you might actually be able to influence how they behave.Children first. Sometimes divorce comes as a shock and at other times parents will be aware that their child’s marriage is unhappy so it can almost be a relief when it ends. Resist the temptation to badmouth the son-in-law or daughter-in-law and simply remember they will always be your grandchild’s parent. You’re going to want to be at every birthday, see them at Christmas and still be on the guestlist for 21st parties and weddings so never put grandchildren in the position of having to choose.Don’t encourage estrangement. If the grandchildren are staying with your child, it can be tempting to punish their partner by keeping the children from them. If there are genuine concerns about abuse to either the parent or the children that’s different, but otherwise remember that they need two parents and encouraging spiteful behaviour hurts the children more than anyone. Grandparents can be a useful buffer while everything is still raw so see being polite to the ex as something you’re doing for your grandchildren.Don’t take control. Ask what you can do to help rather than trying to take over and organise them as you think is best. Help focus on the practicalities and consider all the options, both short and long term. If your child is the one who has ended the relationship there can be a burst of euphoria at finally having everything out there, so be prepared to listen to sometimes outlandish-sounding plans without pouring cold water on them. The first few weeks will be emotional and hard and everything can change by the day, so someone able to stay constant and as calm as possible is a great support.Two sides to every story. It’s a cliche because it’s true and it can be as hard ending a marriage as being the person who’d prefer it to continue. Keep this in mind even if you don’t actually say it out loud and be prepared for outrage if you ever do voice something that might seem like a criticism of your child. Similarly, if you utterly loathe their ex try to keep that buried and keep the personal out of it – “it’s a shame he can’t manage this Sunday” rather than “what a thoughtless creep”. You want to set a pattern for a future where everyone can be civil so hang on to that thought when rage is overwhelming.Never say, ‘I told you so’. You might think you’re just giving the ex a hard time but you’re also making your child feel bad about the past and choices they made, when they already feel hurt and vulnerable. Emotive remarks such as “‘Thank God you didn’t have a child with him” can cause terrible needless pain – perhaps they really wanted a child and the marriage foundered on that, so tread carefully. When they talk about the relationship, reassure them that the good times weren’t wasted and that they worked hard at it, but sometimes that isn’t enough.Put your own grief aside at first. There’s double pain is seeing your child heartbroken, while also realising that your relationship with a much-loved son or daughter-in-law is changed for ever. If your child has been left by their partner it may help to have you empathising with their sense of pain or abandonment because you feel something similar. Gauge this carefully so that they don’t feel you’re taking sides and recognise that often it can be like a bereavement that you have to suffer alone.Look ahead. Ask your child where they’d like to be – in every way – three or six months down the line and help them work towards that. Divorce may be common but that doesn’t make it any less painful, so support such as family mediation can be really useful to reduce everyone’s pain. Grandparents can take the lead by always putting the grandchildren first and encouraging everyone else to do likewise can help make this new life easier all round.