The first trailer for HBO’s Westworld series is finally here. This means it’s time to forget everything we already know about Westworld.We should forget about the 1973 movie, which was basically a paper-thin Jurassic Park prototype with bald robot cowboys instead of dinosaurs. We should forget the quickly-cancelled 1980 series Beyond Westworld, which was basically the story of a mad scientist who tried to take over the world with an army of bald robot cowboys.We should even forget what we’ve heard about this new Westworld series so far; which might be good, given that all we’ve heard is that the whole thing is full of extras who are angry about having to agree to genital-to-genital touching in their consent forms.No, everything starts afresh with this trailer. This is what HBO wants us to see; the show produced by JJ Abrams that’s billed as “a dark odyssey about the dawn of artificial consciousness and the evolution of sin”, and not a silly piece of fluff about scary robot cowboys and sexually traumatised background artists.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest So the question is: does the Westworld trailer live up to expectations?If you were hoping for something even remotely self-aware, you might be better off looking elsewhere. But if you wanted to see a stultifyingly dark reimagining of the story, where important questions are asked about humanity and consciousness, and everyone speaks in an identically-growled whisper, and all nudity is exclusively confined to dead bodies, and the only music you hear is the sort of low-frequency boom soldiers play at their enemies when they want them to involuntarily lose bowel control, and nobody ever smiles once, because only a fool would assume anybody would want to have fun in a rootin’-tootin’ wild west theme park, then this is just the show for you.This is the Westworld we’ve been given, and you could easily be forgiven for thinking the whole thing was created by a first-year philosophy student who’s just got stoned for the first time. The main character, at least in the trailer, is a dead-eyed woman who sits in the dark and cries backwards as offscreen voices ask her faux-profound questions about the nature of reality. Thirty seconds later, we see her being dragged along by the hair, presumably because she found it more appealing than being subjected to such a barrage of ham-fisted pretension.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An unwieldy exchange about meeting your maker … Anthony Hopkins in Westworld.There are unwieldy exchanges about meeting your maker. There’s a transparent cube filled with naked corpses. There’s the big reveal, where we learn that the characters are just playthings on a minuscule set controlled by evil puppetmasters. The trailer is only 96 seconds long, but it makes you feel as if you’re being kicked to death by the world’s worst metaphors.But, still, this is the only 96 seconds of Westworld anyone has seen, so there’s every chance that this is all just the product of unfortunate editing. Perhaps when the next Westworld trailer comes along, and it’s full of robot cowboys hooting and hollering and punching each other to banjo music, we can all breathe a sigh of relief. For now, though, Westworld looks like the world’s biggest drag.