Landing at that time of the year when summer is still vivid in the memory but beautiful days are increasingly scarce, the Sydney film festival once again promises to further deplete the vitamin D intake of the city’s cinephiles. With 288 films in total, there are more things to do than you will ever be able to cram into your schedule – including a particularly strong line-up of homemade films.Many Australian titles in the program did not make this list, because there were simply so many to choose from. Omissions include David Wenham’s directorial debut Ellipsis, Ben C Lucas’s sci-fi film OtherLife, Hollie Fifer’s delayed documentary The Opposition, the first two episodes of the second season of Cleverman, and Sherpa director Jennifer Peedom’s new film, Mountain.But you have to, as they say, draw the line somewhere. Here are 10 highlights from the festival.Manifesto: Cate Blanchett stars as everyoneDirector: Julian Rosefeldt / Country: AustraliaManifesto: Cate Blanchett's multiple personalities for video artist – in pictures Cate Blanchett’s gender-bending performance as Bob Dylan was the best part of Todd Hayne’s experimental biopic I’m Not There, in which six different actors played the singer-songwriter. But why couldn’t she have played every version of Dylan? As if to make the point, here comes Manifesto: a film version of a video installation from the German artist Julian Rosefeldt. Blanchett doesn’t play a paltry single character, or a measly two characters, or an easy peasy three characters. She plays 13 in total, including a homeless man, punk, newsreader and school teacher.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Beguiled: Nicole Kidman and Kirsten Dunst in creepy gothic thrillerDirector: Sofia Coppola / Country: USMy reaction to the news that director Sofia Coppola and star Kirsten Dunst, who worked together on Virgin Suicides and Marie Antoinette, were teaming up for a third film – with Nicole Kidman added to the mix – can be best described by way of this meme. Coppola has never made a genre film, but the trailer for The Beguiled suggests a wicked slice of southern gothic – so expect lots of long white nightgowns and candelabras. Expect also a blood-splattered Kidman delivering lines that do not appear to bode well for Colin Farrell’s character (a wounded Civil War soldier), such as “I need rags, I need chloroform” and “bring me the anatomy book”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Risk: gripping Julian Assange doco by Citizenfour directorDirector: Laura Poitras / Country: USRisk review – Laura Poitras skirts safely around Julian Assange in gripping documentary Laura Poitras’ last film was Citizenfour, the white knuckle, Oscar-winning documentary about Edward Snowden that unfolded a hair’s breadth from the on-the-run whistleblower. Risk, a study of the psyche of Julian Assange, boasts similarly unprecedented access to its subject, following the elusive silver-haired WikiLeaks founder from 2011, just after the organisation leaked the Iraq “war logs”. The timeline of the film stretches all the way to the first month of the Trump administration, but there’s a twist: a previous, more Assange-friendly version of it premiered at last year’s Cannes Film Festival.The director subsequently recut the film after controversially changing her mind about her subject: the new cut, woven with new narration from Poitras herself, paints Assange as less trustworthy and more narcissistic, and deals more explicitly with the sexual assault accusations levelled at him.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Australia Day: racial tension and national identity in Down Under follow-upWorld premiere / Director: Kriv Stenders / Country: AustraliaCould the director Kriv Stenders’ new film – which has its world premiere at Sydney film festival – be a companion piece to last year’s bong and bogan-filled black comedy Down Under? Racial tension and national identity will again be explored in Australia Day, the story taking place over 12 hours and focusing on characters from diverse cultural backgrounds, including a Persian family and a Chinese illegal immigrant. The prolific Stenders has another film on this year’s program – the documentary The Go-Betweens: Right Here, which follows the beloved Brisbane indie rock band.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A still from Australia Day, the new film Kriv Stenders. Photograph: Vince ValituttiWe Don’t Need a Map: part-puppet documentary about Southern Cross symbolismWorld premiere / Director: Warwick Thornton / Country: Australia Questions about national identity will also be explored in Warwick Thornton’s documentary We Don’t Need a Map, which explores the significance of the Southern Cross symbol in Australian culture. Thornton, of Samson and Delilah fame, will, according to the film’s website, explore “an intergalactic tale of rebellion, symbolism and recognition – and an uncomfortable story about Australia”.The film, peppered with animated “bush toy” puppets (a unique form of desert art from the Ltyentye Apurte and Titjikala communities of central Australia), will play Opening Night. It is one of five documentaries in a series called A Moment in History, timed to mark the 50th anniversary of the 1967 referendum that granted Aboriginal Australians the right to vote.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A still from We Don’t Need A Map, Warwick Thornton’s upcoming claymation documentary about Southern Cross symbolism in Australia. Photograph: Sydney film festivalSydney’s feminist filmmakers program: spotlight on groundbreaking womenThe retrospective elements of major film festivals often favour big marquee titles from vaunted film-makers. The Sydney’s feminist filmmakers program spotlights a range of harder-to-find titles from the Sydney women’s movement of the 1970s and 80s, comprised of artists who – as the festival describes it – “worked for love but not always money.”The program includes 1978’s My Survival as an Aboriginal by Essie Coffey (the first documentary directed by an Indigenous Australian woman), and short films such as 1982’s This Woman is Not a Car – a bizarre and, it is fair to say, unforgettable commentary on Australian men’s obsession with vehicles.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   My Survival As an Aboriginal: Essie Coffey with children. Photograph: Sydney film festivalI Am Not Your Negro: James Baldwin doco featuring Samuel L JacksonDirector: Raoul Peck / Country: USI Am Not Your Negro review – James Baldwin's words weave film of immense power Director Raoul Peck’s near universally acclaimed documentary brings to life author and social critic James Baldwin’s reflections on the civil rights movement in America, working from an unfinished 30-page manuscript narrated by Samuel L Jackson. “This might be the only movie about race relations I’ve ever seen that adequately explains – with sympathy – the root causes of a complacent white American mindset,” wrote Guardian critic Jordan Hoffman in his five-star review. “And it took a black writer and director to do it.”The film was nominated for a best documentary academy award last year, losing to the brilliant OJ: Made in America.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Happy End: Isabelle Huppert stars in new film from auteur HanekeDirector: Michael Haneke / Country: France, Austria, GermanyThe arrival of any new film from the great Austrian director Michael Haneke – among very few directors to have won the Cannes film festival’s prestigious Palme d’Or twice – is an event to mark in the calendar with the proverbial permanent marker, or tattoo pen. Those across his work, which in recent years includes The White Ribbon and Amour, will likely assume the first word in the title of his new drama, Happy End, is (perhaps bitterly) ironic. This film focuses on members of a bourgeois family living in the French port city of Calais, with the European refugee crisis unfolding outside their door.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Isabelle Huppert stars in Happy End. Photograph: Films Du LosangeMy Life as a Zucchini: Oscar-winning ‘Ken Loach for kids’Directed: Claude Barras / Country: Switzerland, France'Ken Loach for kids': the mind behind My Life As a Courgette And now for something completely different: a bizarro French stop-motion animation about the life of a shy nine-year-old kid who apparently shares the same name as a vegetable. After accidentally causing the death of his alcoholic mother during one of her drunken rants, the blue-haired Zucchini is sent to an orphanage where he makes friends with a bunch of abandoned kids.The characters look gorgeous: pasty, big-eyed and splashed with paint box colours. My Life as a Zucchini has ridden a wave of goodwill – and effusively positive reviews – since premiering at last year’s Cannes film festival.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Graduation: bleak, superb study of Romania in the 90sDirector: Cristian Mungiu / Country: RomaniaGraduation review – a five-star study of grubby bureaucratic compromise No international film program is ever complete without the words “Romanian New Wave”. Director Cristian Mungiu is best known for his powerful drama 4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days, about a woman who wants to have an abortion in the late 80s, when they were illegal in his home country. The buzz around his latest film Graduation, about a doctor who calls in favours to ensure good school marks for his daughter, is similarly strong, with critics dropping words like “masterpiece”. If you need convincing, check out this five-star review from the Guardian’s Peter Bradshaw.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Sydney film festival runs from 7-18 June, with tickets on sale now 