The Secret Actress is an Oscar- and Golden Globe-nominated actor who lives and works in LA today.If you asked my parents about when I became an actor, you would be met with a massive eye-roll. Early in my career, I took my mother to a screening of one of my films. During one of my more emotional moments, one that involved copious amounts of tears, snot and begging, my mom leaned towards the stranger sitting next to her and said: “I’ve been watching this exact scene since she was three, I’m so glad I didn’t pay for this ticket.” The stranger happened to be a famous Oscar-winning actor who was extremely charming and according to mom, whispered back a version of Aristotle’s “The things we have to learn before we can do them, we learn by doing them.” And this, it turns out, is all I remember of the beginning: practice.At school, when a teacher asked for a volunteer to read out a poem, equation, footnote or list of hazardous substances, my hand would shoot into the air and I would become the prescient emoji for “pick me”. There was nothing I could read, feel or do that couldn’t, or wouldn’t, be metabolized into performance. As every actor will tell you, at some point in some relationship, they have had some version of “Why should I believe you? You lie for a living!” thrown at them, and so it was that at an early age I realized that while people like the entertainment aspect of performance, they don’t necessarily trust the entertainer. My friends at school were, I think, sometimes mistrustful, if not just embarrassed by the wanton ease with which I bandied around emotional articulation. I would slip quite happily between emotional poles and could swear that all of it was genuine. To me, it was, and all of it was in the service of practicing how you connect with emotional truth, synthesize it through your own particular mainframe, and then project it out into the world. Sounds like a load of baloney, but it’s actually one of the more honest cornerstones of acting.At my school, the English department was also the drama department. This is a brilliant way to begin an acting career. English teachers don’t have the faint sliver of resentment that has morphed into dogma that you sometimes find in drama school (or certainly the drama schools I went to). It was the very fact that they weren’t frustrated performers that allowed them to create a solid foundation around which we could fill in the mad, emotional grout. Plus something about not being spoon-fed children’s drama created an appetite for doing things well outside my apparent capabilities. I don’t think I have ever really lost that. But I wish I had now what I had at 12, which was the cojones to freefall awkwardly through anything and not give a shit what anyone thought. I have gone on to have a very successful career and, while the media and the public have their own idea of what success is, mine begins and ends with being paid to do what I love, and still being employed in movies and television years after I began. I have worked all over the world. I have long wanted to write some sort of book about my experiences, but without naming names it becomes rather boring rhetoric and yet if I do name names it’s a gimlet in the face at all the top restaurants and I’d probably never work again.But there are such good stories …When I was approached to write this column I thought the cloak of anonymity would be helpful in creating a frank response to many of the issues and stories I come upon in my industry. The vast pay discrepancies between male and female actors, the ongoing lack of opportunity for actors of color in leading roles in movies, how Oscar campaigns are run with political precision and what it’s like to audition for a director while he is heavily making out with his girlfriend, who is also really famous and really married to someone else. I will look at this as bringing you what I hope will be an interesting, insider vantage point, into some of the day-to-day and after-hours aspects of Babylon. 