I grew up in Colwyn Bay, a small seaside town on the north Wales coast, with a beach, a pier and a big rock. On top of this large promontory stood a hotel, Hotel 70 Degrees, built on a parallelogram footprint, with 70 and 110-degree angles to give all guests staying there a sea view. It was a stupid idea – be it fitting carpets, toilet stalls or kitchen units, it left a lot of wasted space. And from the outside you couldn’t even tell it had these angles, so people completely misunderstood the name – they thought it had something to do with the temperature of the rooms.It was the 1970s, all smoked glass and maxi dresses. Spas were happening; it was the disco era. Men with moustaches and strong aftershave having a nice night out in the UK. I imagined it to be some kind of James Bond hideout. Lots of fairly famous comedians and minor celebrities stayed there.I’d want to be there for my last meal. It would be an Indian summer and I’d arrive flanked by the now-overweight mods on scooters that used to visit Colwyn Bay in the early 1980s. For a year or so, Nile Rodgers from Chic lived in Colwyn Bay, so if he was available I would ask him to play his hits in the bar.One last trip: Laure Prouvost’s final meal | My last supper I’d want to start with a conch soup, like the one I had in Honduras in 1999 with the Institute for Affordable Lunacy, a Dutch artists collective. We had watched the fishermen getting the ingredients for the next day’s soup – the most amazing thing ever. I had pineapples there too, the kind that we never get in Europe – “the real pineapple”, a guy told me as we rode around in a Jeep.That would be followed by Welsh lamb, cooked slowly by an old Welsh couple in a dated cooker. I think all top chefs should invest in a dated Welsh cooker complete with old couple. It’s a very special way of cooking. People like my grandparents would leave it on while they were in chapel, and the smell, the Bisto miasma travelled all around the village; I don’t know how they did it. I have a neighbour the other side of the stream, and the smell on Sunday mornings…. With that I’d want vegetables the way only old ladies know how to cook them – perfectly seasoned, slowly cooked, slightly too much butter …And to finish, apple and blackberry pie the way my grandmother made it, with very cold single cream. The crust was never hard, only approaching golden at the edges, with caster sugar sprinkled on top. There’d be coffee, but no after-dinner mints. I think they’re an abomination. They’re like toothpaste. In fact, mint always means bedtime for me: it instantly makes me think you’re about to disinfect my mouth and send me to my room.We used to eat awful food in this country: I recognise that something had to change. But we were so typically British in the way we did it. We had to be the best. We all became mini experts on everything, and really blokey too – we had to shout. Chefs in particular. The idea of young people being shouted at in the kitchen to make my food is dreadful to me. I don’t want someone on the verge of tears getting my tea ready.So, for this meal, I would insist that the kitchen staff were all people that had been bullied or insulted by turbo-male chefs like Gordon Ramsey and the other shouty one. I’d want all those bullies, and AA Gill too for good measure, on a raft. After supper the kitchen staff would be invited to join me on the terrace to take pot shots at them with a medieval trebuchet firing out-of-date frozen hams and offal.Finally, as the sun sets, I’d leave in a gold Ford Capri that stalls just as I get to the lights.Bedwyr Williams is a Welsh artist whose work combines installation and stand-up comedy. His solo exhibition, The Gulch is on in the Curve at the Barbican, from 29 September–8 January