Thirteen months ago, April Reign was watching the Oscar nominations announcement on TV with her family. Struck by the lack of ethnic diversity among those whose names were called, Reign – a journalist in New York – took to Twitter to voice her disapproval. The hashtag she coined – #OscarsSoWhite – caught on immediately.Before #OscarsSoWhite: five previous Academy Awards controversies What Reign didn’t anticipate was that hashtag resurfacing this year as, once again, not a single person of colour was named among the acting nominees. The difference in 2016 is that the outrage has spread outside social media – in 2016, #OscarsSoWhite has been trending everywhere. Here is Reign’s manifesto for change.1 Introduce the DuVernay testFilms should be judged according to the criteria devised by New York Times film critic Manohla Dargis, with the blessing of Selma director Ava DuVernay. It operates like the Bechdel test, which checks a film’s feminist credentials. But its benchmark is low, requiring simply that “African Americans and other minorities have fully realised lives rather than serve as scenery in white stories”.2 Reach out to screenwriters from marginalised communitiesRather than simply waiting for progress to filter through, Hollywood needs to proactively hunt for unsung talent to bring broader perspectives to the screen.3 Put people of colour on both sides of the cameraDiverse casts with fully developed storylines surrounding characters of colour are crucial, but people from marginalised communities must also be behind the camera for real change to happen. Directors and crew all bring a frame of reference – holistic inclusion would be a profound shift.4 Get Hollywood’s major players to speak outSupport of household names such as Jada Pinkett Smith and Spike Lee is essential in securing visibility. Stars should seek to emulate Marlon Brando, who used his 1973 Oscar win for The Godfather to highlight the misrepresentation of Native Americans on TV and in film – and, as well as their wider abuse in the US.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Support of household names such as Spike Lee is essential in securing visibility.’ Photograph: Willi Schneider/REX/Shutterstock5 Diversify Academy membershipAs anounced by president Cheryl Boone Isaacs, the Oscars board is proposing to double the number of women and diverse members of the Academy by 2020 through a series of policy changes. But more must be done; the pressure won’t stop until it is.6 Be conscious about the cinemas you frequentNot only should we be mindful of which films benefit, but which cinemas, too. Seek out smaller, independent cinemas that may be showing films one might not see in a huge multiplex.How to fix Hollywood's race problem 7 Amend the Academy’s voting proceduresCurrently, Academy members are not required to view a performance or film before they vote. But how can you know if one performance is better than another if you’re not watching the films? A system should be introduced to require members to indicate they had seen the films before they cast their votes.8 Challenge yourself as a viewerPeople should be mindful when they go to cinema – seek out films that represent a different perspective to your own.9 Support film festivalsThe Toronto black film festival, Tribeca film festival and Sundance are all festivals where films from marginalised communities get a platform. Next year’s Oscars are set, at this stage at least, to be dominated by The Birth of a Nation, about Nat Turner’s slave liberation movement in 1831. After premiering at Sundance, Fox bought the film for $17.5m, a festival record.10 Don’t watch the OscarsDon’t boycott – counterprogramme. “Boycott” is the word that the media uses because it’s simplistic. But it’s not a word that I, Pinkett-Smith or Lee or anyone else who is not attending the awards is actually using. So, use the #OscarsSoWhite hashtag and watch the film The Wood on Sunday night instead. Or do whatever you like; just don’t watch the Oscars.