The UK has been hailed for showing leadership to broker a new target to cut carbon emissions, despite ongoing objections from Poland to a deal later this month. Any suite of 2030 climate targets agreed now could be taken to a UN conference in Lima this December, allowing a push for reciprocal moves from other countries before a global summit in Paris next year, where a climate pact is supposed to be agreed.But six central and east European states want more financial support before agreeing EU proposals to cut greenhouse gas output by 40%, improve energy efficiency by 30% and guarantee a 27% market share for renewables by the next decade’s end.The Finnish prime minister Alexander Stubb told the Guardian that, at a ministerial summit in Milan yesterday, Britain had “taken a much stronger role than it used to and that is good news. The UK will be needed for brokering a deal on burden-sharing as they have a big vested interest here. We need all the big muscles we can get to solve this and the UK brokering a deal would be warmly welcomed.”Resolving objections from Poland, which is dependent on coal for 90% of its electricity, remains the bloc’s most tenacious obstacle. Two months ago, the country said that by 2050 coal would still be its primary energy source and renewable sources would provide just 15% of energy. The EU has pledged to cut emissions by 80-95% by mid-century.In a separate report to the UN climate secretariat last year, Poland actually projected an increase in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. The country’s prime minister, Ewa Kopacz, says that implementing the EU’s planned 40% CO2 cut would increase power prices by 120%, and has vowed to oppose any measures that increase energy bills.“There is no consensus on the number of targets, and there is no discussion on funding the burden, only discussion on fair burden-sharing,” a Polish government source said, on condition of anonymity. But “the UK is trying hard to prove that a deal can be done,” the source added. “Its clear position is that the EU needs just one target.”Asked whether Poland could again veto a bloc climate deal, the source said: “We are working hard to strike a deal that is good for all sides. If we feel the burden is not shared fairly, our option to disagree is there, but it is a last resort and we are not keen to use it. We believe there is room for a deal.”Stubb said that Poland had an interest in agreeing a deal in October, before the country’s former prime minister Donald Tusk takes the helm of the European Council.The Danish climate and energy minister, Rasmus Helveg Petersen, was also optimistic that a deal was possible, partly due to British interventions. “Ed Davey is taking a leadership role on setting ambitious targets and it is very much to his credit that we’ve made so much progress,” he told the Guardian. “Ed has taken a lead on [energy efficiency], and the greenhouse gas problem of ‘how many roads lead to Rome’. Sometimes we are not in full accord on which route to take but we have an overall objective and it is just a question of the means.”The UK has held out for national control over how CO2 cuts are implemented, arguing that nuclear power, shale gas and experimental Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) technology could be more cost-effective than renewable power or energy-saving investments.A debate is still raging over whether the renewables and efficiency targets should be binding at national level or just aggregated across the bloc, to take into account states like Denmark, which aims to meet the 40% cut by 2020, a decade early. By the same year, Denmark expects half of its electricity to come from wind power, and it plans to be fossil fuel-free by 2050.Ed Davey, the UK energy and climate secretary, told the Liberal Democrat conference that on the 2030 goals: “Britain is winning and leading the argument. Today I hand over the negotiating baton to Mr Cameron, he must not drop it.”