Tired? Aren’t we all! But have you ever thought it might be down to not getting enough sleep? I know it sounds incredible, revolutionary even, when four hours a night is the norm for high achievers, but the fact is, drowsiness can be a sure sign of sleep deprivation or what’s almost as bad, poor quality sleep or, as experts call it, “dirty” sleep.Sure, it sounds weird, but as I learned to my cost, nature actually designed us to sleep 12 to 14 hours a day. Think you haven’t got time for paleo-sleeping? Well, listen. One day, I just fell fast asleep – yes, right in the middle of yoga. But when I came round, I thought I was at Pilates! Panic attack! When I told Kevin, my pelvic floor trainer, he immediately picked up on my distress and I was lucky enough to be referred as an emergency case to leading sleep hygienist, Dr Eugene Kwak. After just a week on his emergency Kwaknite Sleepclenze, my energy levels were incredible, my skin looked brighter and tauter. But I was one of the lucky ones. Just one or two more nights of poor sleep could have led to irreparable brain inflammation, obesity, impaired cognition and immovable cellulite.Modern tribes: the glamper So it’s entirely thanks to Dr Kwak that I’m around to share his top five pre-sleeping essentials. Rule one: never overtire yourself between sleeps. Thinking is the biggest no-no, and Dr Kwak warns against work of any kind, except for routine exercise and pampering. Regular clean-eating meals, plus a little fun socialising, should be the limits of your exertion until it’s time to destress and put on different bedtime garments such as Dr Kwak’s signature “pyjamas”. Two: close your curtains or, if you prefer, blinds. Three: create darkness by turning off the light. Four: stop looking at Instagram. Five: don’t forget to close your eyes! And for maximum benefit, invest in pillows stuffed with Dr Kwak’s golden, chemically-proven sleeping dust. While you snooze, the gold will seep into your skin, so you wake up like our ancestors, with a radiant glow, all ready to go straight back to bed.