Quadruplets and Homeless10pm, Channel 4Despite a tabloid-ish title, this one-off doc isn’t a hatchet job on Aynur and Tony, who are on benefits and expecting four new additions to their family. Instead, it’s a portrait of modern Britain where many struggle to survive. In this case, it’s a couple who receive surprise news and have to adapt their lives accordingly. This means moving in with Aynur’s parents as they prepare for the births, while Tony tries to conquer his alcoholism. Hannah J DaviesTrust Me, I’m a Vet8pm, BBC2When a pair of dog eyes are pleading for food they’re hard to resist. But is limiting treats or at least insisting on a little more exercise better for them? Alice Rhodes sets out an experiment to find out what works in terms of tackling canine obesity. Elsewhere, rabbits run wild when they are let out of their hutches, guinea pigs purr for a variety of different reasons and there’s a look at how choosing the wrong pet fish might leave you with a huge problem. Hannah VerdierTonight at the London Palladium8pm, ITVDespite this being a modern revival of variety at the London Palladium, the vibe of the show still skews towards the old school. Copacabana legend Barry Manilow will be hitting the hallowed stage, joined by acts including the venerable Chinese State Circus, standup comedian Pippa Evans and an exclusive performance by the newly re-formed Bananarama. Hosting duties are performed by – who else? – Bradley Walsh. Ben ArnoldKing Charles III9pm, BBC2The late Tim Pigott-Smith plays the future King Charles in this screen version of Mike Bartlett’s play. The premise is intriguing, exploring the fault line between democratic and hereditary power. The newly acceded Charles provokes a crisis as his refusal to endorse a government bill causes constitutional stalemate. It’s admirably provocative but the blank verse doesn’t always help the piece’s momentum and Diana’s ghostly proclamations elicit sniggers rather than gasps. Phil HarrisonConfessions of a Junior Doctor9pm, Channel 4Stress, mess, barely suppressed anger. The fourth episode of the series following young medics at Northampton General focuses on surgery and, once again, you could be forgiven for wondering why anybody would want to work in the NHS. Tonight, we meet registrar James, who finds that long hours are affecting his health, ambitious Zeeshan, and Kayla, whose parents are looking after her son at home in China while she trains. Jonathan WrightPublic Enemy10pm, Sky AtlanticSky is stretching its definition of Atlantic somewhat in importing this Belgian drama but its opening episode is highly promising, suggesting a meditation on crime, punishment, forgiveness and redemption. Angelo Bison stars as Guy Béranger, a serial child killer who has been released after 20 years and taken in by the monks of Vielsart Abbey in the Ardennes, to the disgust of locals; the more so when a young girl goes missing near the abbey. David StubbsDr Christian Will See You Now9pm, WIn his swish private clinic where every door leads, Mr Benn-style, to a different specialist, Christian Jessen offers treatment that is holistic in all the right ways, allowing patients time to open up about their problem while providing vital advice and/or a shoulder to cry on to their friends and family. Tonight, the doc helps a woman whose phobias are sabotaging her relationship and seeks succour for an irritable bowel syndrome sufferer. Graeme VirtueFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Martha March May Marlene, Channel 4 Photograph: Publicity image from film companyWe Own the Night, (James Gray, 2007), 10.5pm, Sony Movie ChannelCrime thrillers seldom come heftier than this one, which explores the old two-sides-of-the-law scenario. Joaquin Phoenix is Bobby Green, a nightclub manager in late-80s Brooklyn, living off the Russian mafiosi who frequent his joint. That is until his cop-father (Robert Duvall) and cop-brother (Mark Wahlberg) go after the gangsters, forcing him to pick a side. Paul HowlettMartha Marcy May Marlene, (Sean Durkin, 2011), 2am, Channel 4This uneasy drama sets out as a sensitive exploration of a troubled young woman’s psyche, then elides into something more threatening and frightening. Elizabeth Olsen is Martha, who goes on the run from an abusive rural cult ruled by the Manson-like John Hawkes. When she moves in with her sister (Sarah Paulson) and husband (Hugh Dancy), the shadows start to gather over their idyllic Connecticut home. Paul HowlettLive sportCycling: Giro d’Italia 12noon, Eurosport 1, The fifth stage, a 159km route from Pedara to Messina.One-Day Cup Cricket: Essex Eagles v Sussex Sharks 1.55pm, Sky Sports 2, Action from the South Group at the county ground in Chelmsford.Champions League Football: Atlético Madrid v Real Madrid 7pm, BT Sport 2, The semi-final second leg at Estadio Vicente Calderón.