Is it possible for a jar of Roses lime marmalade to blush? I could have sworn I saw it do just that in Terry O’Connor’s retelling of Romeo and Juliet in Forced Entertainment’s Complete Works: Table Top Shakespeare which is playing in the Pit at the Barbican. The pot of marmalade plays Juliet beautifully. Lily James is going to have her work cut out to beat this performance when she tackles the role later this year. Romeo is played by a slim torch, while his dad is a much chunkier, heavy-duty one. Like all great casting, these choices tell you quite a lot about the family dynamic. The nurse is a bottle of Dettol. Lady Capulet is a half-used bottle of washing-up liquid. There’s something rather sad about that.The premise for Table Top Shakespeare is simple. A member of the company retells the story of one of the plays in about 50 minutes using only household items. The stage is a wooden table. The red velvet curtains behind it are a nod to a theatre tradition in which Shakespeare comes wrapped in hundreds of years of performance history and a great deal of genuflecting.  It’s perfectly possible to respect Shakespeare without smothering the ​plays ​works in red-velvet reverence Those who object to this kind of performance – and Spymonkey and Tim Crouch’s forthcoming The Complete Deaths at Northampton and the Brighton festival – as a sign of dumbing down and audience attention deficit are mistaking reverence for respect. It’s perfectly possible to respect Shakespeare, or any other playwright, without smothering the works in red-velvet reverence. You only have to see what Robert Icke has done so brilliantly with Chekhov’s Uncle Vanya at the Almeida to understand that reimagining classic texts keeps them alive.Of course there’s not much of Shakespeare’s text left in the Forced Entertainment approach. What we mostly get is a retelling of the story, and if there was one thing that Shakespeare sometimes had a bit of bother with it was the story. Mostly he pinched the plots, and in the process he remade meaning, making old stories seem newly minted and lending them an intriguingly provisional quality. Shakespeare was a theatre-maker who understood the difference between reverence and respect. He, Icke and Tim Etchells from Forced Ents would get on like a house on fire.On paper, Table Top Shakespeare sounds like a complete bore. Like a crib sheet version of Shakespeare, the bones without the flesh, devoid of the poetry that we are always being told is what makes Shakespeare Shakespeare. In fact, the performances do serve the crib sheet purpose. I’m not sure I’ve ever grasped the plot of King John and the shifting alliances quite so clearly as I did in Cathy Naden’s version. King John, by the way, is played by a potato masher.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Revelatory … As You Like It performed by Robin Arthur. Photograph: PhotoshotBut they also recognise that texts are never set in stone. After all, for 200 years or more from the mid-17th century, Shakespeare’s plays were constantly revised and rewritten. Forced Entertainment are faithful to the versions we now know, but they also make the point that there is no such thing as utter faithfulness because whoever tells the story changes it, just as every time something is remembered it is altered.Who tells the story changes its meaning. Robin Arthur’s retelling of As You Like It would be different from Claire Marshall’s. How it’s told becomes telling, too: the slips and hesitations, on occasion the misrememberings or shifts of emphasis. I’d never noticed the violence against women that is demonstrated right at the very top of Romeo and Juliet, while Robin Arthur’s version of As You Like It is delivered so deadpan that the utter absurdity of human beings in love becomes heightened.Would you want all Shakespeare delivered this way? Of course not, just as I wouldn’t want to see Chekhov directed only by Robert Icke. But excised of the text the plays are also entirely rescued from their fate as a series of over-familiar quotations. It’s perfectly understandable that Lyndsey Turner wrestled with where “To be or not to be” should sit in the Cumberbatch Hamlet because the speech comes so freighted it almost ceases to surprise.What’s more, casting household items invites the audience to be part of the imaginative process so that we believe pots of jam might blush. Forced Entertainment open up the imaginative landscape of the plays so that each becomes a shared enterprise between the performer and audience who have to work hard to accept that a potato masher is king of England.It’s what all great storytellers and great listeners do together, and means that Table Top Shakespeare has less in common with the Shakespeare of literary criticism and more in common with Simon McBurney’s The Encounter, a journey into the ancient process of storytelling, which is taking place in the same building. 