Of all the improbable animal noises Chris Watson has recorded over the years – limpets grazing, cod purring, a single ant walking, Kenyan hippos chuckling, the pitter-patter of Northumbrian caterpillar excrement falling from a tree – none is more entrancing than the buzz of the dung fly.To capture the sound, the Bafta-winning wildlife sound recordist put a tiny microphone into a cowpat on Newcastle’s Town Moor. He likes to put microphones in unusual places – a zebra carcass, for example, or an Icelandic glacier – and record the results. The way Watson describes it, that cowpat is one of Newcastle’s leading night spots.“It’s where dung beetles pair up and mate. Dung flies too. The males compete for females on the surface of the cowpat.” It’s also where flies make sounds hitherto unappreciated by human ears. “It was the fulfilment of a longtime ambition, and I was really pleased with the results,” says Watson.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Watson at work in Kielder Forest, NorthumberlandThe microphone was the sort you normally see attached to TV presenters’ lapels and Watson promises it’ll be clean before he fixes it to David Attenborough. The co-founder of Sheffield’s experimental post-punk band Cabaret Voltaire is today one of the world’s leading sound recordists, specialising in natural history. He has won two Baftas for his work, one for Attenborough’s The Life of Birds in 1996, the other for Frozen Planet in 2012. What I do is put a microphone where you can’t put your earsChris Watson Watson has long been recording bugs, inspired by the Japanese tradition of appreciating insect sounds as we do birdsong. In 15th-century Japan, crickets would be put into tiny cages and, at the right temperature, they would sing. Kyoto monks claimed the Japanese bell cricket had the voice of Buddha. Though more prosaic, the Geordie dung fly song is also appealing, says Watson. “It sounded like an acoustic bass, a deep woody sound.”Watson recorded on the Town Moor – the vast green space in Newcastle city centre – for a year. He used underwater hydrophones to record water boatmen and bat detectors to catch pipistrelles’ echolocation during their nocturnal hunts. “What I do,” he tells me, “is put a microphone where you can’t put your ears.”Feel the buzz: the album recorded by 40,000 bees The hardest thing to capture? “Newcastle United scoring a goal.” St James’s Park lies on Town Moor but it took three trips to the ground for Watson to get the chance to record 55,000 Geordies celebrating leather hitting net. Now he has assembled an audio portrait of a year on Town Moor, which will be presented as a 40-minute “dark” cinema experience, co-produced by BBC Newcastle and showing in The Gallery at Tyneside cinema for the next month. “You’ll come into the cinema, take your seat, the curtains will draw back and the screen will be black and for the next 40 minutes you’ll hear 14 signature sounds of Town Moor,” he explains.As well as the water boatmen and bats, you can hear a circus, some steam engines, and drone planes being tested by local engineering students. As they listen, viewers will become the image-makers, hopes Watson, who hasn’t included the dung fly in the final cut. “Perhaps I should try again and get it in.”One of the joys of Watson’s work is that it makes you listen anew to everyday noises and appreciate their neglected beauty. One recording from Town Moor features the start of a park run. The sound of padding athletes’ feet sounds, to my ears, velvety, like the sensual brush work of a jazz drummer. “We hear everything but we hardly ever listen,” Watson responds. “So many of us have iPods in our ears as a way of controlling noise pollution. [We] don’t listen to what’s immediately around us.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Right now, sound art such as Watson’s is having a moment. The other day, I was going up and down the lift at Birmingham’s Ikon Gallery listening to Martin Creed’s installation: a choir whose voices rise through the octaves as you go up, and down as the lift descends. Talk about elevator music.Crickets, bees and vinyl – Chris Watson's Pestival mix Watson is increasingly invited to work in galleries. In 2009, he made an audio response to John Constable’s Cornfield for an exhibition called Sounds of the Gallery. In 2010, he collaborated on The Bee Symphony, a vocal work performed live with a choir and honey bees in surround-sound at the insect-themed Pestival. In 2011, he worked at the Louvre in Paris on three installations, one a sound response to Cy Twombly’s vast ceiling painting in the Salle des Bronzes, one that included recordings of cranes in flight. In 2014, he used the groaning of an Icelandic glacier in a sound piece called Sönghellier (the Cave of Song) at Lincoln Cathedral.Is what he does music, art or sound recording? “I don’t demarcate. I don’t find it helpful to do so.”His obsession started in Sheffield in the 1960s, when his parents gave him a battery-operated reel-to-reel tape recorder. He decided to record birds and realised he needed to leave the machine near the bird table and retreat so as not to disturb the chaffinches, blue tits and robins. That fascination was cemented when, as a teenager, he came across the work of French composer Pierre Schaeffer, the so-called father of sampling and a form of music called musique concrète, which appropriated the sounds of nature.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Watson’s recording of Town Moor included park runs, insects’ mating songs and even St James’ Park celebrating a goal. Photograph: Courtesy BBC Newcastle/ Kaleel Zibe and Jacky LongstaffAfter quitting Cabaret Voltaire in 1981, he joined the sound department of Tyne Tees TV, working on shows including The Tube. Leaving experimental post-punk for sound recording seems rather like Brian Cox giving up rock’n’roll for physics. “There is a parallel,” he says. “I found sound recording much more thrilling. This, you have to remember, was after punk and the whole ‘revolt into style’ of post-punk falling apart.” He still releases albums of music and found sound on the long-running independent label Touch.Watson’s recordings have been used therapeutically. He once took part in an art project called Wild Song At Dawn at Liverpool’s Alder Hey children’s hospital, using sounds patients and staff had recorded to calm other patients in the wards. Does sound recording in nature help him spiritually, too? Yes, he says. One of his greatest pleasures is the chance to be alone and absorbed in listening to what other humans miss.His recent Radio 4 series Soundstage featured recordings of the dawn chorus in Suffolk, wildebeest migrating across Kenya, a glacier melting in the Antarctic. In one episode, The Oak Woodland, he stood beneath a tree getting showered with frass – the aforementioned caterpillar excrement – near his home in Northumbria. What I heard was something like a soft rain.“It may have sounded that way,” laughs Watson, “but, trust me, it felt different.”The Town Moor – A Portrait in Sound, is at the The Gallery at Tyneside Cinema, Newcastle, until 24 July.