Pretentiousness: Why It Matters, BristolIt’s a word that’s often used pejoratively, but pretentiousness should be worn as a badge of honour. In fact, there’s a strong argument for claiming that it’s just another word for creativity. After all, isn’t imagining that you might be equipped to create art, music or film that may mean something to someone else the ultimate in pretentiousness? The late, lamented David Bowie is worth considering here. Retrospectively, of course, he’s treasured, but as he unveiled each of his brilliantly outlandish character constructs, it’s easy to imagine more earthbound observers sneering at his wild imaginings. Co-editor of Frieze Dan Fox has written a book on this subject; it amounts to a spirited defence of pretentiousness and he’ll be discussing it here. He argues that pretentiousness is a crucial stimulus to innovation in the realm of art, and that without it our creative industries would flounder. Arguably, from the Beatles, through Brit-art, to the demanding TV epics of this century, the public has been surprisingly receptive to recondite ideas. So maybe it’s time to stop giving pretentiousness a bad press.Spike Island, ThuPHAn Evening With Simon Sebag Montefiore, OxfordDespite being a mainstay of school curricula, the exploits of the power-hungry Romanov dynasty, who ruled Russia and its gargantuan empire between 1613 and 1918, seem more like the stuff of legend than actual history. “Highlights” include Nicholas II’s wife Alexandra’s unbreakable bond with the seemingly immortal mystic Rasputin; Peter The Great torturing his own son to death; and Empress Elizaveta ordering that dissenters have their tongues ripped out. However, they’re probably best known for their demise via brutal Bolshevik regicide, which signalled the beginning of a revolution that would change the course of Russian history for ever. Historian Simon Sebag Montefiore has utilised new archival research to write a guide to the imperial family’s rise and fall, his fourth book on the nation. As he presents his new tome, expect tales of sex and excess that the Beeb’s glossy War And Peace adaptation lacked.Waterstones, ThuHDArt, Politics And Magic: The Kibbo Kift Kindred, LondonThe Kindred of the Kibbo Kift was a strange proposition. Founded in 1920, the long-defunct youth group has lost none of its political ambiguity when looked at retrospectively. It was formed by John Hargrave, one of the prime movers in the Scouts. Having served as a stretcher-bearer in the first world war, he had become disillusioned with what he saw as the militaristic tendencies of Baden-Powell’s movement. The Kibbo Kift emphasised pacifism, a utopian strain of Arthurian spiritualism, and slightly questionable ideas of genetic purity. They spent much of their time making handicrafts and costumes, borrowing from Egyptian, Anglo-Saxon, Celtic and Native American styles, many examples of which are on display in a small archival show at the Whitechapel Gallery (to 15 Mar). This day-long symposium, led by Annebella Pollen, author of a new book on the Kindred, investigates the group’s style, ethos and ambition against a backdrop of rapid change between the wars.Whitechapel Gallery, E1, Sat OB