The stubborn presence of a huge lump of leftover Stilton in the fridge weeks after Christmas (“Is that mould? I mean, new mould?”) held it back for decades – but now blue cheese is hitting a purple patch.According to new research, sales of strong cheeses such as saint agur, roquefort, gorgonzola and our own Stilton went up almost 8% in the year to August, while cheddar sales are down (they still make up a mighty 50% of all cheese sales, mind).It’s not just those novelty truckles of stilton at Christmas; we are buying the stuff year-round and I, for one, think that’s marvellous. Thankfully, good-quality blue cheeses come in small packets, which is also a reason for shoppers becoming more adventurous. Blame our ceaseless appetite for The Great British Bake Off, MasterChef, Saturday Kitchen et al, which may have led to a greater curiosity about foods sometimes regarded as an “acquired taste”.The deeply savoury qualities of such ingredients as anchovies, mushrooms, Marmite and blue cheese work wonders on all manner of dishes (roasting lamb without slathering with a mix of anchovies and butter is unthinkable nowadays).Blue cheese, in particular, delivers what one of my chef teachers (at Leiths School of Food and Wine) calls “unctuous mouthfeel” – creamy, salty, etc. Who doesn’t want that on a cracker?But anyone who is buying veined cheese and eating it au naturel is missing a trick. Crumbled over broccoli, it makes a plain old vegetable dish irresistible; ditto stirring it into celeriac soup.Those who refuse it altogether, due to those veins or its whiffiness, can be coaxed into loving it with, for instance, a pile of glistening buffalo wings (chicken pieces marinated with butter and hot sauce, grilled or fried and served with a dip of blue cheese, cream and garlic whizzed up together).But if we bought more in the past 12 months, imagine how much we are tossing in the trolley as December arrives. And if you have a surfeit? It makes a magic canapé. Even easier, cubed on an endive leaf, dressed with vinaigrette and topped with a piece of walnut (cheese spoons!).