Susan Faludi’s voice is kind of quiet, considering the career she’s had. She’s polite, with a gentle manner, which is not what people expect of her as as a famous feminist journalist. Of course, there’s more to her warm manner than meets the eye. Her father, Stefánie Faludi, once told Susan’s husband: “She comes across as soft­spoken, but she really pulls out the guns.”Recounting the story to me on a patio outside a hotel in Cambridge, Massachusetts, Faludi said she thought her father knew what to expect of her new book, In the Darkroom, which traces her slow, uneasy reconciliation with her mercurial father, Stefánie, after Stefánie’s gender reassignment surgery.“While she probably would have bridled at the obvious, unattractive aspects of the book,” Faludi said, “it’s ultimately what she would have wanted.”In fact, Stefánie Faludi had explicitly asked her daughter to write a book about her. “I think more than anything, she wanted to be perceived,” Faludi told me.When I asked if Faludi thought her father had been right about her, if she was indeed someone who seemed shy and unassuming but was tough as nails, prepared to expose any secret, Faludi laughed. “I think I’d be the last to know.”Maybe.Her first book, Backlash: The Undeclared War Against American Women, was a sensation when it was published in 1991. It won the National Book Critics Circle Award, and more than that, it became a talismanic book because it described a phenomenon – a pushback against feminist forces – that had previously been difficult to articulate.Faludi did not pull any punches against the cultural and economic forces that, as she saw it, held feminism back in the late 1980s and early 1990s. “If women ‘have it all,’ then why don’t they have the most basic requirements to achieve equality in the work force?” she asked, referring to the lack of coherent family leave policies. Then and now, such a statement was controversial. In an age where Beyoncé can use the word “feminist” to define herself, it may seem like the culture war has been won – but someone like Faludi insists on pointing out that the facts on the ground contradict that image.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Tony Luong for the GuardianThe commercial and critical success of Backlash­, which made the bestseller lists, could have established her as another Gloria Steinem, a kind of movement spokesperson. Yet the next book she published, Stiffed, focused instead on the condition of the modern American man, who she saw not as the all­-powerful figure that some feminist rhetoric had described.“If men are the masters of their fate,” she asked of the American myth of masculinity, “what do they do about the unspoken sense that they are being mastered, in the marketplace and at home, by forces that seem to be sweeping away the soil beneath their feet?”Faludi then interviewed a number of American men who were feeling frustrated and alienated by economic and social forces, and who had chosen to blame others ­­ – women, feminists, immigrants –­­ for their problems. She is neither credulous nor caustic in her evaluation of their fate.Reading Stiffed in preparation for the interview, I’d been struck by how much it had to say about a constituency very much on American minds right now: Trump supporters. “It’s almost as if the political culture conjured this ‘ur­misogynist’ to go up against our first feminist political candidate,” she said. The frustrations expressed by these men are the same ones you had 10 years ago, but now they have this kind of avatar as a presidential candidate. “I keep going back to self­-pity, and people who aren’t suffering as much as they imagine they are,” Faludi said. “That seems to be a really dangerous place to be.”She finds herself frustrated, instead, with “this American approach to politics”. People want to fall in love with candidates, to identify with them, rather than to address the election as rational citizens. Faludi worries that such soft political analysis skirts really pressing issues. “If you were able to solve some of these economic burdens, we would also be fixing the problem of Trump supporters,” she said. “If they had some opportunity, if there was a social welfare net … it would lift all boats.”Faludi’s independent thinking is rooted largely in how she views herself: as a reporter, first and foremost, someone whose job it is to observe others and subsume her own feelings.“I think, actually, being a reporter helped me to deal with my father,” Faludi told me. She feels moved to clarify: what she means, when she describes “dealing with her father”, is his being absent from her life for 25 years. She is not referring to her father’s decision to transition into being a woman. That part wasn’t as hard to deal with as people might imagine.“I feel very much in tune with the newer generation of trans advocates who view gender on a spectrum,” Faludi said. “Who read the ‘trans’ in transgender not as transitioning from one gender to another but transcending the whole mishegoss,” she added, using the Yiddish term that translates, roughly, as “craziness”. “I’m all for smashing the gender binary.”Still, the book does trace her father’s journey through multiple names, from Istvàn Friedman in Hungary, to Steven Faludi in Westchester County, New York, to Stefánie Faludi of Hungary once more. Each name maps on to an identity: the teenaged Istvàn stood up to the Nazis to rescue his parents from the Jewish ghetto in Budapest. The adult Stephen was a kind of pre-­Photoshop photographic genius, working in the darkroom to make even more beautiful the shots taken by celebrated photographers like Richard Avedon. Stephen had a wife and two children, too, until the marriage broke down when Faludi was still a teenager. You can’t see one identity in isolation from all the others Stefánie transitioned in 2004, announcing the change to her daughter in a remarkable email:I have decided that I have had enough of impersonating a macho aggressive man that I have never been inside.Faludi finds other confusions in her father’s sense of self – her pride as a Hungarian, her ambivalent relationship to Judaism, her confusion about her role as a suburban father in America. All of these shifts of identity suggest that Stefánie was going through an identity crisis that stretched beyond her gender. To some reviewers, this means that Faludi is trying to discredit trans activists. The New York Times critic Jennifer Senior wrote that in the book, Faludi “challenges some of our most fundamental assumptions about transsexuality, most notably by suggesting that the decision to change sexes may sometimes involve more than gender identity questions alone”.Faludi, herself, disputes this sort of takeaway. While the book does refer to and critique the writing of certain transgender activists, she doesn’t mean for it to be a final statement on transgender people. “In understanding my father I tried to bring in trans experience,” Faludi explained to me. “But I am not trying to understand trans experience through the lens of my father, who …” She thinks for a minute. “Who was a deeply idiosyncratic character, who was never the poster child for anything.” She told me she thought her father, too, would acknowledge that he had had a wide-­ranging identity crisis.Faludi has never been much of a poster child for anything, either. Interrograting the limits of some identity marker has, actually, kind of been her mission. “You can’t see one identity in isolation from all the others,” Faludi said. “Identity becomes a dangerous proposition when it’s used as a substitute for self-­awareness, for an acknowledgment of psychological complexity.”We talked about the recent events in Orlando too, how the shooter also seemed motivated by a similar kind of frustration and rage. “A young man living in this world with the social media landscape, where it’s now expected that you too can be this celebrity if you just get your name out there, and now there’s a vector for that …” Faludi mused, as we talked about Christina Grimmie’s killer in particular. She doesn’t have any social media accounts herself, but she’s fascinated by the phenomenon.This hints at another of Faludi’s prevailing proccupations: the intergenerational divisions among feminists. In 2010, she wrote an article for Harper’s which, in chronicling a leadership contest at the National Organization for Women, criticized some younger feminists for being preoccupied with softer feminist issues, like high heels and makeup, and also for being disdainful of their elders. In 2013, she chronicled the life and death of the feminist writer Shulamith Firestone, one of the founders of New York Radical Women, an early second­ wave feminist collective, for the New Yorker. She tells a lot of stories about the students she now teaches at Bowdoin College, in Brunswick, Maine, where students who can talk ably about Beyoncé but often only learn about Shirley Chisholm, the African ­American activist and presidential candidate, for the first time in her class.Faludi herself came to feminism, she said, because of what happened in her own life. Her mother was a frustrated suburban housewife in what was obviously a troubled marriage. And when Faludi’s parents divorced, it was not amicable. It was the violence of the divorce that drove a wedge between Faludi and her father, a wedge that she only overcame as the events of In the Darkroom unfolded. The first version of the book that she wrote, she says, was “crankier”.“My father changed,” Faludi told me, then thought about it. “Well, she didn’t change very much, but she mellowed, and so did I.”