If there’s a major criticism that’s been lobbed at the women of country music over the past two decades, it’s that lyrically so many of them have relied on the same girl-done-wrong storylines. From the Dixie Chicks gleefully poisoning a man’s black-eyed peas in Goodbye Earl to Carrie Underwood swinging a baseball bat in Before He Cheats; from Miranda Lambert burning a house down in Kerosene to Kimberly Perry threatening to kill herself if her man leaves her in Better Dig Two; female country stars have sung about having violent (and often murderous) tendencies toward their unsavory exes. This style has become especially associated with Lambert, the genre’s most beloved female at the moment, who even titled her second album Crazy Ex-Girlfriend. A line from the title track: “Baby, to a hammer, everything looks like a nail.”Lately, though, it’s not the women of country having trouble coping with their breakups – it’s the men that are especially irrational, forlorn and prone to guzzling gallons of alcohol. Country’s biggest male stars are behaving extra badly post-breakup, even if most of them are happily married in real life and just role-playing in their songs. (That’s all it is for the majority of the women, too. Last I checked, Carrie Underwood hasn’t really murdered anyone.)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The number one song on country radio at the moment is Luke Bryan’s duet with Karen Fairchild, Home Alone Tonight, an insipid pop-rock trifle about snapping a “payback picture” of a one-night stand to send to an ex-lover. “Let’s go shot for shot for shot/Til we forgot/What we came here to forget,” Bryan sings in the chorus. Home Alone Tonight strays from the traditional country imagery of a guy weeping into his beer while the jukebox plays sad George Jones songs, opting instead for the Jersey Shore-tested method of mourning: binge drinking and revenge sex.On Dierks Bentley’s brand new single, Somewhere on a Beach, he’s also letting the alcohol flow as he tells his ex that he’s absolutely, definitely, 100% not still thinking about her. “I got a new girl, she’s got it going on,” he brags from his beach chair. “She got a body, and she’s naughty,” he continues, a bit pathetically. The song is a companion of sorts to Bentley’s massive hit Drunk on a Plane, another track about getting over a breakup, but where that song found Bentley getting drunk because he was feeling depressed, this one finds him getting drunk out of pure petty-mindedness instead. In that sense, Somewhere on a Beach shares the same DNA as Cole Swindell’s recent hit Ain’t Worth the Whiskey, in which the singer repeatedly insists that he isn’t getting smashed over his ex-girlfriend because she’s such a complete afterthought. Never mind the fact that he’s singing an entire song about her. Swindell demonstrates an almost Trumpish level of disdain for his loser of an ex-girlfriend as he brazenly salutes American troops and country songs alike. (It’s probably being too generous to suggest that both of these songs could be read as self-aware portraits of men blinded by their own heartbreak, though that meta-interpretation does make them substantially more interesting.)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This micro-trend seems to have kicked off in 2013 with the success of Tyler Farr’s breakout hit Redneck Crazy, a divisive song that was described as a “glorified stalker anthem” by the Washington Post’s Emily Yahr. In said track, which hit No 1 on country radio, Farr sings about going “redneck crazy” after a breakup and camping out drunkenly outside his ex’s house. “I’m gonna shine my headlights into your bedroom window,” he threatens. “Throw empty beer cans at both of your shadows / I didn’t come here to start a fight / But I’m up for anything tonight.” Most of these guys’ spitefully brokenhearted songs don’t have the violent insinuations of Redneck Crazy, but they contain the same kind of despair and desperation. On A Thousand Horses’s single This Ain’t No Drunk Dial, lead singer Michael Hobby makes a tipsy call to his ex and pleads, “Girl, don’t hang up / I called on purpose / Yeah, I’ve had a few / Hell, I’m hurtin.” In Sam Hunt’s Break Up in a Small Town, he laments the discovery of his ex’s new fling, with the crying refrain, “I never thought she would get down with somebody I know.” In the music video, Hunt’s world literally burns down around him as he delivers the chorus.That kind of visual melodrama reflects the tone of these crazy ex-boyfriend songs nicely. The ladies of country music may be ready to murder a cheating man in cold blood, but lately, the guys are the ones acting hysterical and burning up with angst and regret – or maybe just too much alcohol. 