Quentin Tarantino has championed a great many films from across the globe over the years, with a famously impassioned shouty zeal. When the superstar auteur gets excited he tends to flail his arms, as if feeling around for invisible airborne punctuation marks, while spraying his sentences with words such as “alright!” and drawing from a gallingly encyclopaedic bank of trash-and-treasure knowledge.Few Australians – and I’m including critics in this – have seen or championed as many Australian films (particularly older ones) as Tarantino. He’s credited several Australian productions for directly influencing his work, including schlock-tastic 1978 thriller Patrick, which inspired some of Kill Bill. On countless Australian DVD dust jackets, the writer/director/uber film nerd’s name appears underneath an effusive quote, from classic surfer drama Summer City (“love the film’s energy!”) to chopsocky action pic The Man from Hong Kong (“this movie fucking kicks ass!”).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   US director Quentin Tarantino poses for a photograph at the Australian premiere of his film The Hateful Eight in Sydney, Australia, 13 January 2016. Photograph: Paul Miller/EPATarantino is visiting Sydney to promote his new movie: a characteristically violence-rimmed and dialogue-larded mystery-western called The Hateful Eight. During his tour Tarantino will personally host screenings of classic Australian quasi-westerns Mad Dog Morgan and The Chant of Jimmie Blacksmith. The Hateful Eight review: Agatha Christie with gags, guns and Samuel L Jackson If all this doesn’t spell ‘Australian film fanboy’ clearly enough, he even invented the label used to describe the wave of crazy-inventive genre films awash in cinemas and drive-ins throughout the 70s and 80s: “Ozploitation”.This is something he reminds me of. “By the way, I coined the term Ozploitation. I’m not going to charge you a royalty but there should be a little R next to that expression, with a little circle around it,” he says, laughing and waving around those hands.“Australian genre films were a lot of fun because they were legitimate genre movies. They were real genre films and they dealt, in a way like the Italians did, with the excess of genre, and that has been an influence on me.” His personal collection of Australian films (on either 35mm or 16mm) includes BMX Bandits, Roadgames, Dark Age, Frog Dreaming, High Rolling in a Hot Corvette, The Picture Show Man and an episode of 60s/70s adventure TV show Riptide, featuring – and he seems to relish this point – a cameo performance from Jack Thompson.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Quentin Tarantino during the filming of The Hateful Eight. Photograph: Snap Stills/REX/ShutterstockIn other words: a typically Tarantino-esque cinematic salad, tossing together veritable classics, cult films, curios and a couple of things plucked out of left-field. No-one has ever been able to accuse one of the most celebrated writer/directors of his generation of being pompous.  I come from a mixed family, where my mother is art house cinema and my father is B movie genre cinema. “I come from a mixed family, where my mother is art house cinema and my father is B movie genre cinema,” he says. “They’re estranged and I’ve been trying to bring them together for all of my career, to one degree or another.” That philosophy can certainly apply to The Hateful Eight: a largely single-setting film fuelled by angry, accusatory dialogue and pockmarked with extreme violence, oscillating between comic book-style grotesquery and genuinely gnarly images. It is long, beautifully shot, and scored by 87-year-old legend Ennio Morricone – and if you see the roadshow version on 70mm, you’ll get a program to take home and a 12-minute intermission. That intermission arrives right after the first truly dramatic moment, built up to with patient, playwright-like precision: lots of verbose narrative breadcrumbs. Then snap, it’s half time. The lights come up.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Tarantino wasn’t concerned an intermission would break the tension: “I think it does the opposite, I actually think it gooses the audience into an interesting thing,” he says. The Hateful Eight review – hard to hate but tough to love “I like getting a chance to reflect on what it is that I’ve seen and what could be possibly happening next. Then you sit back down and you’re ready for the next go, and then it starts and it takes you. I think that is a really wonderful, invigorating, interactive way of watching a movie. I would love to see intermissions come back.” The break is immediately preceded by a full-tilt-perverse monologue performed by Samuel L. Jackson – truly the greatest of the Tarantino actors, equalled only by Christoph Waltz. Tarantino says Jackson’s tastes are closer to his than Waltz’s, given Jackson “grew up watching the exact same kind of movies that I did, and he really appreciates them”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kurt Russell and Samuel L Jackson as John Ruth and Major Marquis Warren, in Quentin Tarantino’s latest film The Hateful Eight Photograph: Allstar/The Weinstein CompanyTarantino doesn’t watch as many new Australian films these days, as far fewer are released theatrically in the US. He snacks on Aussie horror films though – recently Needle, The Tunnel and The Babadook – partly “to keep me up to date with the young Australian actors out there”. But when it comes to a certain iconic road warrior navigating a furious stretch of bichumen – George Miller’s fourth instalment in the Mad Max franchise, which has just been nominated for 10 Oscars – Tarantino made a rare move: he turned his nose up at it.Quentin Tarantino says Chinese fans can watch his movies illegally Why? “Because Mel Gibson’s not in it. I mean, in a world where Mel Gibson exists, how can you not do Mad Max with Mel Gibson? If you’re talking about this wasteland existing for the last 30 years, who better than Mel Gibson could have survived that world?” asks/shouts the film-maker, well-known for casting veteran on-the-wane actors. Tarantino says the omission of Gibson made him distraught, but when he eventually bought a ticket he “ended up truly loving it”. Seeing Fury Road three times in one weekend, he found himself reliving an experience that had a big impact on his formative years as a film buff: watching an Australian movie on the big screen. Quentin Tarantino will host screenings of The Chant of Jimmie Blacksmith (1978) and Mad Dog Morgan (1976) at the Star in Sydney on Friday 15 January, followed by a Q&A with director Fred Schepisi and writer Thomas Keneally. The Hateful Eight is in Australian cinemas now