On our first date, my now girlfriend and I didn’t eat at all. We met at around 6.30 and wandered around drinking and talking about people we hated until nearly midnight. Even though my stomach was growling the whole time, I didn’t have the nerve to admit our date had straddled dinnertime and we should eat, and nor did she. On our second date, which sprawled across two and a half days, we ate twice: a batch of pancakes I cooked for her (the palest, least malodorous, most perfectly sweet-bland food I could think of), and half a tub of ice cream. It’s not easy asserting your hunger when everything you do will become fodder for someone's Tumblr of Worst Dates Ever It’s not easy asserting your hunger, least of all on a date, where every stupid thing you say and do will inevitably become fodder for someone else’s Tumblr of Worst Dates Ever. Last week it was reported that a study from Aarhus university showed our food choices are directly affected by the people we’re around, and how attractive those people are. Shown images of good-looking men, women were more willing to spend money on “healthy” foods, and less willing to fork out for “unhealthy” meals.You are what you eat, apparently. So are you the guy who orders his steak well done with ketchup? Are you that girl who gets apple pie with ice cream on the side, but only if it’s vanilla, and only if the pie’s hot, and if not vanilla then hold the ice cream and don’t heat the pie? What you choose to eat says as much about you as your passport or dental records. Give a person their prospective date’s fast-food order and supermarket receipt and I am certain they could tell more about whether they’re a good match than they could from any Tinder profile. No wonder dinner dates are so many people’s worst nightmare.I don’t really know what the Danish study shows that we didn’t all learn from Cosmo and Bridget Jones, but it’s interesting to see it backed up with data. Hunger has always been a fraught topic for women: when we’re so often told to make ourselves smaller, demand less, be pliant and happy and mute, just the act of following your appetite is transgressive, whether that appetite is for sex, success or, indeed, food.This all reaches a head on a date, where first impressions are key and every tiny move we make becomes a statement of who we are and what we stand for. Pork pie on a first date? Maybe you’re “one of the lads”. Salad? You’re fussy. Somewhere in between is an impossibly narrow middle ground, home to little mezze bites, rice bowls and lean chicken. Our standards for women’s appetites have become so twisted that what you don’t eat says almost as much as what you do.Does it matter what you eat on a date? | Sarah Marsh I don’t know where I’m supposed to plot my first couple of dates with my girlfriend in this man-woman health-status matrix. Was our nervousness about eating just a girlish whim, separate from the politics of attraction? The study says there are no equivalent findings for same-sex couples. But experience suggests many of us fall into exactly the same anxieties around food and dating as heterosexual people. Whether we like it or not, food is bound up with ideas of purity, worth, youth and power for women: we want what she’s having.One finding in the Aarhus study worried me. While women were more likely to pick healthy foods in response to images of attractive men, men didn’t seem to choose foods along health lines at all. When shown images of attractive women, men were more likely choose expensive foods.This is all about status: the guy ordering a £30 steak and a magnum of champagne to show off to a date; or insisting on picking up your drinks tab. But as I sit here, I am realising something terrible. I spent so many years carefully curating my diet for my dates that I barely gave a thought to what they were eating. Men are more likely to shell out in front of an attractive woman, while my dates have always been the types to rummage in their jeans for change for a pack of crisps. What does that say about me?