In the ocean depths of YouTube, far away from the Gangnam Styles and Troye Sivans, there is a lesser-spotted category of video, one whose views rarely reach double digits. The site boasts vast numbers of amateur musicians, uploading raw footage of singing or rapping, more in a surge of emotion rather than any desire to be unearthed by Scooter Braun. These are people who have “laid plain, expressing something human and unique that you wouldn’t get elsewhere,” says NYC electronic musician James Hinton, AKA the Range.Why are YouTube stars so popular? For his second album, Potential, Hinton spent 200 hours trawling for normal, everyday people such as these to provide the vocals for his skittering grime and Baltimore club-influenced beats (he doesn’t sing himself). His approach required strategy and patience: it’s hard to find videos with very few views on YouTube, and Hinton had to work out secret search terms and ways of filter tinkering to reach them (it’s no surprise to learn that he studied physics at Brown).   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It was also important for Hinton to relate to the videos he did find on an emotional level. New York-based teen Kai Mars was chosen, for example, because of her “magnetic personality” and “expressive” cover of Ariana Grande’s You’ll Never Know, sampled on his jungle-pop track Florida. Vancouver vocalist Jordyn Lardizabal singing the line “slowly falling out of love with you”, meanwhile, resonated with Hinton on a bad day in his relationship. Unpolished freestyles also appealed. Londoner Kruddy Zak, who was 13 years old at the time of the video, rapped about losing a loved one in 2009; Hinton’s mother had died the same year.It’s this untainted vulnerability that Hinton says is absent in most contemporary pop. He cites the many songwriters and producers involved in making any given chart song. “It’s been vetted, which chips away at the original emotion, while a person singing a cappella is entirely driven by what’s happened to them, probably pretty recently.” In other words, they are straight from the heart, rather than mangled through a cynical filter.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kai Mars. Photograph: Publicity imageYouTube finds its purpose for Justin Bieber as top-channel views rise 58% As the process developed, Hinton started to challenge the “Justin Bieber narrative”; the idea that people put themselves on YouTube in the sole hope of being signed. “This record has blown the doors off that theory. Not only is it not the majority; it’s heavily the minority. They just want to get it out there. It’s a compulsion.” Once the project was finished he tracked down his cast of 11, which involved “crazy detective work”. At a time when producers are constantly being sued for swiping samples, the ones Hinton used were properly cleared, with each singer receiving a fee for their performance.More and more, superproducers and superstars have started to enlist the skills of undiscovered amateurs. The fashion for using samples or skills from undiscovered people is certainly on the rise. Jay Z hired a then-16-year-old WondaGurl to produce a track on Magna Carta Holy Grail, while Kanye used a beat from a 22-year-old grime producer from Rochdale called Adnan Khan on his Life Of Pablo track Father Stretch My Hands Pt 2.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   OphQiHinton, however, has taken it further, making a documentary called Superimpose that tells the stories of his samples. In it, we find Naturaliss, a correctional officer who works in a prison in Jamaica and turns to music to get away from “pain and poverty”, Brixton rapper OphQi hasn’t put out music “properly” because he never had guidance or education, exacerbated by a “difficult time” with drinking and drugs.The decision to use unknowns is a counterintuitive one when success is driven by the clicks that will shoot a track to the top of playlists and in front of the eyes of influential tastemakers, often as a result of big-name guest features. Hinton says his YouTube searches challenge the notion that, “especially in America, if you have certain numbers, there must be something good and successful about you”. As his album shows, people are expressing truths about the human experience every day – even if they aren’t getting a million views for their troubles •Potential is out now via Domino