AnonymousI am once again in the mental health treatment sausage machine. Plucking up courage to approach a GP to admit defeat, being shoved on drugs to stop me topping myself, told that there’s a huge, long waiting list for treatment, the false hope of a “gateway worker” assessment followed by another interminable wait of undefined length. Then I know I will have my allocated batch of treatment before being deemed “fixed” and dispatched back to the world again. I am sick and tired of the roundabout. I suggested that instead of this system, once a mental health patient has had their allocation of therapy, they should remain on the books, so when they feel themselves slipping back down, they can call up for a booster session instead of having to go through the whole rigmarole again.I’ve just quit my job of six years because, following a disclosure to my new boss that I have bipolar tendencies she proceeded to bully me into submission. She had absolutely no understanding of how to get the best out of (a very talented) employee who has mental health issues. I was stopped from working at home, an important aspect to being able to manage my condition. I had unreasonable targets imposed, with no support offered to go about achieving them. My job was chopped and changed, hours cut and autonomy removed. I have been pushed back to the brink of suicide and had to go on antidepressants to simply survive. Experiences of depression: 'It leaves you on the cliff edge of sanity' AnonymousFrom September 2015 until December 2016, while I waited for an NHS referral, I was so ill I didn’t know how to cope and resorted to self harming. These aren’t all of my scars, but they’re the ones no one ever sees; so it’s easy to think they’re not there. One year of my life, and I will have to be reminded of it forever.Cat, 24, South YorkshirePeople often mistake bipolar disorder as your mood rapidly changing from up to down. It’s not like that. That would be my other illness, borderline personality disorder (BPD) or as my psychiatrist put it, emotionally unstable personality disorder. It’s complicated telling people you have both bipolar disorder and BPD, as they both involve intense mood swings. Well, that’s when I do tell people – social anxiety sort of puts a brick wall between me and people. BPD makes your mood change within seconds and it is a strong mood swing. Like fire, it can destroy you and those around you. With bipolar, the mood swing sort of creeps up on you. It’s when the mood gets high (mania) or low (depression) that it becomes destructive.Every day it feels like I must wear a mask, however, hiding never did me any good with these illnesses. It just becomes more of a shock to those around you when the symptoms start to leak through. Even as I write this, it’s hard to concentrate, thoughts and emotions are saying one thing, while that one bit of mind that tells you “everything will be ok”, is telling me to push on.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The rendition of a darker moment. A painting of a depression experience by Cat, South YorkshireI’ll admit when I’ve been at my lowest I’ve done things I’ve regretted. The overdose, which sent me into hospital, was one of the things. I know there’s a stigma around psychiatric hospitals, but I did meet people who it’s worked for. When I was admitted into hospital the first time, I had psychosis – a female voice was constantly screaming in pain in my head. I don’t even bother to count how many times a year I have to go through this. Medication helps keep me in some control, especially with the manic side. I prefer the manic side to the depression side. Mania brings with it the thought that you’re this amazing person, who can do anything, someone who deserves to be with people. The bad side of mania is that loss of control. Nights become sleepless and the thoughts running through your head won’t stop. Every time you try to grab one, it just slips through your fingers. Health and safety also goes out the window.I managed to get through my art degree. I have to remind myself that I’m more than my diagnosis, but with the right help and support it does become a lot easier.In the UK, the Samaritans can be contacted on 116 123.In the US, the National Suicide Prevention Hotline is 1-800-273-8255. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is on 13 11 14. 