There are many more beautiful objects than two frayed and faded pieces of embroidery, in the first exhibition in a lifetime at the V&A of a medieval art form in which England once led the world. All that glitters: V&A to show rare relics of England's finest embroidery The silk has rotted leaving only the linen backing and the tarnished gold and silver thread, but the two shabby pieces, reunited after 150 years, vividly demonstrate what ultimately happened to rare surviving examples of the luxury textiles. The panel showing Jesus Christ surrounded by his apostles was chopped up by a German priest so famous for his ruthless approach to the medieval treasures that he was nicknamed Franz “Scissors” Bock. He sold half to the V&A, which later turned down the offer of his entire collection for £500, and half to a museum in Vienna, and they have remained apart until now.The curator Clare Browne has a certain sympathy for Bock – “he was a serious collector, and he saved many pieces which would otherwise certainly have been destroyed” – but even she is startled that he ran his scissors straight through the figure of Christ, sparing only the face, which ended up in the V&A’s half.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Butler-Bowden Cope is made from embroidered silk velvet with silver and silver-gilt thread and features coloured silks, pearls, beads and metal. Photograph: Laura Dale/PAOther treasures that have returned to the country and probably the city where they were made include loans from the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, cathedrals in Italy and Spain, Iceland, and the Vatican. Although the V&A has what is considered the greatest collection in the world, it has also borrowed from English churches and museums, including the padded doublet once worn by the Black Prince, which has hung over his tomb in Canterbury cathedral for 700 years.Many of the pieces were once owned by princes of church and state: Pope Benedict XI commissioned some after he was astonished by the magnificence of English clergy on a delegation to 14th-century Rome. Some merchants visiting London from Iceland were equally dazzled, and commissioned embroideries of Icelandic saints in gold on crimson velvet, which they gave to their local church in northern Iceland. Perfectly preserved, with the 85% pure gold thread still glittering as new, the pieces had never left Iceland since.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alice apparel, stole and maniple designed for a priest celebrating the Eucharist. Photograph: Laura Dale/PAMany were worked on luxury imported silk and velvets, including a unique 13th-century example using a blue kanzi fabric, a mixture of silk and cotton woven in Iran. However, in the most costly pieces the embroiderers then covered every inch of the fabric in intricate scenes from the lives of saints and martyrs, flowers, trees, animals and birds stitched in such detail that the species can be identified, worked in gold, silver and coloured silks, often embellished with tiny gemstones and pearls.The ecclesiastical pieces continued in use, though many were destroyed in the Reformation and others cut up so the least damaged panels could be reused, but few secular pieces survived: a spectacular crimson cloth embroidered with the lions of England, believed made for the horse of Edward III for a great procession, is a rare exception. “If that’s what the horse wore, we can only imagine what the king looked like,” Browne said. The earliest garments came from the tombs of bishops, including Hubert Walter, the 12th-century archbishop of Canterbury, who lost his beautiful stockings and shoes when his grave was reopened in the 19th century.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Detail from the Fishmonger’s Pall (1512-38), embroidered for and still owned by the Worshipful Company of Fishmongers. Photograph: Laura Dale/PACo-curator Glyn Davies said some modest objects on display were as rare as any of the embroideries – the tools used to make them, excavated on a site in London, including scissors, a needle case, a thimble, and an iron needle so fine the eye is almost invisible.The last major exhibition of Opus Anglicanum, or “English work”, was more than 50 years ago. “The term is too often used – but this truly is a once in a lifetime experience,” Davies said.Opus Anglicanum: Masterpieces of English Medieval Embroidery at the V&A London runs from 1 October to 5 February 2017.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Intricate embroidery adorns a large ecclesiastical piece. Photograph: Laura Dale/PA