I spent the summer before last in 14th-century Lombardy. I went to the local spice market and watched the women hawking poudre-marchant tart, galingale and blankmanger.I was invited to a wedding where I drank pyment, meeth and spiced ale, and ate wafres, pipying hoot out of the gleede. Then we carried the bride and groom to their marital bed, which was blessed by the local priest. The bride threw her stocking over her shoulder. And we all laughed at Damyan, who caught it, because that meant he would be the next to be married.Later he gave me the counterfeit key he had made to the walled pleasure garden where I could watch Persephone disporting herself with her nymphs at the well beneath the laurel tree.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rehearsals for The Tale of Januarie Photograph: Paul CochraneAnd yet I never left my Sussex desk. Holidays in the head may not be Atol-protected, but they are cheap. And at the end of my four-week break in medieval Pavia, I was still solvent and had written the libretto for The Tale of Januarie, an adaptation of Chaucer’s The Merchant’s Tale. I did, however, have to teach myself Chaucerian. Although he was not a dramatist, Chaucer did write a good deal of direct speech, which I could import verbatim into my script. The rest of the dialogue I would have to invent. But I had to choose carefully, using a Middle English that would be accessible to the modern ear. This is opera, after all, and it is sung, thus imposing a second level of possible opacity. Chaucer is bawdy and unabashed, and may not be in perfect alignment with the current zeitgeist. I had first read The Merchant’s Tale at school. I remember listening to gramophone recordings of Nevill Coghill reading The Canterbury Tales, and acquiring a taste for the sound of Middle English. The story concerns a “likerous” old knight, Januarie, who in his 60s takes a young wife, who in turn takes a young lover, Damyan. It is a twist on the classical figure of the senex amans, the ridiculous old man who falls for someone a third of his age and has the power and means to acquire her.Back then I’m sure I identified with the young lovers. Now that I’m roughly the same age as the old man, my allegiance has shifted sufficiently for me to find some sympathy with Januarie and his sexagenarian folly.Chaucer is bawdy and unabashed, and may not be in perfect alignment with the current zeitgeist. But he is even-handed about men and women. Although written by a man, The Canterbury Tales present, in the Wife of Bath – five times married – perhaps the most eloquent advocate for women’s self-determination in literature. There’s even something for Trump to enjoy in The Miller’s Tale – “and prively he caught her by the queynte”. The problem of marriage is one of the abiding themes of The Canterbury Tales. Chaucer’s view of it is sardonic, but never bitter. (It has been conjectured that his own marriage to his higher-born wife Philippa Roet was unhappy.) In The Merchant’s Tale, in mock rhetorical style, he has one of Januarie’s brothers (unmarried) speak in favour of marriage, while the other brother (married) speaks persuasively against it.Chaucer has a similarly ambivalent view of the pursuit of pleasure. He will always ironise it in others, but we always have the feeling he approves of our desire to seek it. Alongside the “moral” tales, he knew his readers would require some sauce. There’s even something for Trump to enjoy in The Miller’s Tale – “and prively he caught her by the queynte”. But the tales never become salacious, and those men – like Januarie – who believe they can simply have women for pleasure always receive their comeuppance. In Januarie’s case, May is hoisted up into a pear tree by her lover to consummate their lust, a moment Chaucer captured in the immortal line that has thrilled schoolboys for 600 years – “gan pullen up the smok and in he throng”. Chaucer’s vernacular work shows us how language and culture flourish by looking outward. Chaucer is a benevolent tour guide through his time. Perhaps his dialectical approach as a writer can be instructive for us today. In an age of increasing vehemence and polarity, his gently mocking irony, which considers both sides of the argument, could teach us a lot about accepting our own inherent contradictions. There is another aspect of his work that has topical relevance. Chaucer’s vernacular work shows us how language and culture flourish by looking outward. He was writing at a time when English was absorbing many of the languages of its neighbours and antecedents – Latin, Anglo-Saxon, French and even Italian (Chaucer travelled on many diplomatic missions in Europe). His absorbent Middle English, without which Shakespeare would have been unthinkable, helped give us the richness of our language today.I never considered writing the libretto in modern English because so much of Chaucer’s colour and humour would have been lost. My version of the tale will perhaps not please the purist. It may not all be authentic Middle English syntax, nor pronunciation. But this has always been a contested field, since the language of the late 14th century was just as varied and accented as our own. I hope, at least, that the libretto is authentically Chaucerian in spirit. That means, as one Chaucer scholar put it to me, it should be fun.The Tale of Januarie, by Julian Philips with libretto by GSMD writer-in-residence Stephen Plaice, is at Silk Street theatre, Guildhall School of Music and Drama, London from 27 February to 6 March.