Apart from the occasional homicidal maniac, the people who write in to make comments about what I have written in this column couldn’t be nicer. But if I answered even a small fraction of them, I would soon be dead from the effort, so I am obliged to work on the principle that, whatever the comment, the next few columns are my answer. Some people write in to ask me, “Why so much about television?” Well, if the next few columns are about something else, that’s my answer.If I were to give a specific answer, it would have to be something about how I once earned my living as a couch potato and that the habit of watching dies hard. There wouldn’t be room to say much about my other career as a spy. Disguised as a literary critic (irascible expression, leather patches on elbows of sports jacket), I was parachuted into Britain by Asio, the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, with orders to keep track of Britain’s moves to join the common market. Now, half a century later, my reports are still being read in Canberra, but they are mainly about Britain’s moves to leave the common market.Clive James: ‘Helen Hunt! Holy smoke, what an artist!’ All I had to do was keep sending the same report, bunging in enough statistical details to make it look complicated. At this very moment, my profile of Theresa May is on Malcolm Turnbull’s desk, headlined by my warning: “Don’t be fooled by the condescending smile. Watch out for the big fake giggle.”Mine were the intelligence reports on Britain that every Australian prime minister read first. (Even Gough Whitlam, who prided himself on knowing everything by pure intuition, was content merely to change my signature to his.) The Queen knew what I was up to, but told none of her prime ministers except Tony Blair. Nowadays, when I arrive by jet-ski to visit Tony at his holiday hideaway near Monaco, the first topic he raises is about spilling our Brexit secret. Keen to take the credit for the next stretch of British history, he would love to be rumbled. Cherie, luckily, has a better sense of tactics: she just lies back in her chair and looks forward fondly to the time when she will be queen of Australia. It has to happen.In the old days, I had just finished deliberately losing a knock-up with Rod Laver at the Asio training facility at Drongo Creek when he said, “You know, if we timed it right, we could take over the whole Empire.” I guessed straight away that he was only half joking, but it was a slow beer with Mel Gibson that clinched the deal. I packed my parachute that very night, and here we are.