Scenes showing reality TV star Ferne McCann eating a live spider on ITV’s I’m a Celebrity … Get Me Out of Here! have been cleared by the TV watchdog, despite nearly 1,500 complaints from viewers.The footage, which aired during the final episode of last year’s series in December, led to accusations from viewers that the show was resorting to “animal cruelty for entertainment”.In her final challenge on the show, the 25-year-old The Only Way Is Essex star was shown repeatedly chewing on “a live water spider” as one of series of stomach-churning dishes she was presented with.I’m a Celebrity: more than 500 complain after Ferne McCann eats live spider But the bushtucker trial, which saw McCann eventually manage to eat the spider, after its legs were seen emerging from her mouth, sparked an angry response from viewers.Ofcom received nearly 1,500 complaints about the scene, which led the watchdog to assess the material broadcast on the ITV series.On Monday, the media regulator confirmed it will not be taking the matter forward for investigation despite the backlash about the programme.It said that in its view the scenes was in keeping with the “well-established format” of the series and was unlikely to have gone beyond what audiences were expecting. Ofcom added that ITV had taken steps to limit any offence.The post-watershed scenes had provoked an angry response from some members of the audience who branded it “disgusting”.One wrote on Twitter: “How has the show not been done for animal cruelty? Crossed the line now.”Another said: “That spider died in the mouth of Ferne McCann. That is beyond animal cruelty. That is just cruelty in the extreme.” It is understood that ITV pointed Ofcom toward a number of previous occasions when live invertebrate creatures, such as insects and grubs, had been eaten as part of this programme and that the broadcaster had mitigated any offence by its choice of footage.The show’s final episode, which saw ex-Geordie Shore star Vicky Pattison crowned as winner of the series, attracted 9.7 million viewers – down from the 10.4million that watched the previous year’s final.An Ofcom spokesman said: “We received a number of complaints about a contestant on this programme eating a live spider as part of challenge, but won’t be taking the matter forward for investigation. “In our view, this task was in keeping with the well-established format of this reality series and was unlikely to have exceeded audience expectations. We also took into account that ITV had taken steps to limit any offence resulting from the inclusion of this task.”