Take a sweet potato. Slice it thinly. Toast it – as one might normally do a slice of bread. Toast it again, and possibly once more. Then top with your favourite spread – might we recommend smashed avocado?Following in the proud trend established by cauliflower “rice” and “pizza bases” and lettuce leaf “burger buns”, the latest crime to be committed in the name of the clean-eating movement is “sweet potato toast” – exactly what it sounds like, with slices of sweet potato used in place of bread.Like so many recipes of questionable origin, this crossed Guardian Australia’s path on Facebook. In a post on Saturday, Delish magazine promised that “sweet potato toast” would “seriously wow you”, linking to a recipe.Seemingly as an afterthought, as though concerned that wouldn’t be enough to compel you to click, it added: “Spoiler: you make it in your toaster!”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest With a 50-second clip, Delish answered a question that no one seemed to have been asking: “Yes! It’s possible to toast sweet potato in the toaster.”I was sceptical. I had been led astray by Instagram-facilitated “food trends” before (seriously, only food stylists are using avocados as buns). Can you really use an avocado as a bun? Plus I had cooked and eaten a sweet potato, and I could see no way in which putting one in a toaster would result in something edible, let alone delicious.Then a friend posted a picture of her successful experiment to Instagram with a delighted caption: “Are you allergic to gluten? Are you sick of the mundane and mainstream qualities that lie within your average loaf of bread? Are you looking for a fitspo alternative to smother your peanut butter on? Or have you just run out of bread? Well do I have the treat for you!”It was, she concluded breathlessly, a “game changer”.My colleague Bonnie Malkin and I resolved to see for ourselves. Where I had seen a potential fire hazard, Bonnie had seen possibility. Between us, we would be the Mulder and Scully to yet another mystery put forward by the paleo movement.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bonnie Malkin brandishes the sweet potatoes. Photograph: Elle Hunt for the GuardianTaking to the sweet potato in Guardian Australia’s kitchen, Bonnie observed it was harder to cut than a loaf of bread – “Much harder.”Though the large sweet potato had cost just $1.70, it yielded only about six small “slices”, meaning bread was also better value (though perhaps not paleo bread).After three minutes in the toaster, the potato was warm, damp and raw; after a further three minutes, it was sweating and still raw.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   After three rounds in the toaster, this is what we got. Photograph: Elle Hunt for the GuardianOn the third round, it started to burn. We wondered if the moisture might gather in the bottom of the toaster and cause an electrical fire.“It’s journalism – but at what price?” wondered Bonnie as we watched the potato burn.After 10 minutes in the toaster, and now with a crowd gathering around, we extracted the slice. It was matt and slightly charred. Bonnie, still apparently optimistic about the outcome, smothered it in avocado and feta, her chosen toppings.She took a bite.“It is raw,” she said immediately. “Completely raw. You wonder what it would do to the gut.”Quietly validated, I continued taking photographs. “I don’t want to do this anymore,” said Bonnie, smiling and holding a slice of raw potato to her jaw.She took four more bites.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The finished product: looks good, tastes not good. Photograph: Elle Hunt for the Guardian“Actually,” she said, “One part of it is cooked. And can I just say, the bits that are cooked are tasty.”Bonnie had brought one-and-a-half sweet potatoes to work; we used only the half. She offered the whole to our colleague, eating his sandwich and watching, bemused. Bonnie said she had been worried that the half wasn’t going to be enough, she explained.“It was always going to be enough,” he said, pocketing the vegetable.