The eighth of December has always been an easy date for me to remember: my parents married on that day in 1962, and John Lennon was assassinated in 1980, when I was 17.“You never get past what happens to you when you’re 17,” says John Lennon in Kevin Barry’s recent novel Beatlebone. I don’t count myself among the believers of that view, but reading Barry’s book skirred me back to being 17 so often that time lost its boundaries while I read.Barry’s Lennon is 37: it is 1978, two years before he is murdered. He is an icon, leaving an infant son in New York City to journey west of Ireland, to spend time on a small island he owns. Lennon has been engaged in Primal Therapy – a practice tried by the real star – and hopes to be alone on his island so that he can “scream his fucking lungs out” and cast his demons into the sea. Once word gets out of his presence on the island a handler takes Lennon into hiding, and for much of the book, the musician reflects on a life that has wearied him, one full of what his therapist Dr. Janov calls “amorphous doom and nameless dread.” I was the same age when my own life took serious turns: I would leave my marriage and begin my own period of doom and dread.For me, with these parallels, reading Beatlebone was a long process, one where I would pause as memories would crawl up, pawing at me like insistent puppies demanding attention.Beatlebone by Kevin Barry review – a darkly wry trip to Beatle Island I also stopped for other reasons: Barry’s beautiful sentences kept me copying graceful passages into my journal. Some sentences reminded me of my recently dead father, who as a Mancunian lad in the 1950s, fancied himself a Teddy Boy. “Reception is deserted but they’re banging pots and pans together out the back. A demented brass band. Morning engagements only”: this is the kind of passage that I would have called up Dad to read to him, to remind him of his own days performing.It’s a dark book, but there is humour too: Lennon’s writing block is personified by the ghost-like presence of Brian Wilson (whose Beach Boys album Pet Sounds spurred Lennon and McCartney to write better songs). The song Don’t Worry, Baby is Lennon’s earworm in Beatlebone; and Barry’s Beatlebone was mine. It was a book I couldn’t get out of my head, becoming messed up with my own memories of the autumn leading up to Lennon’s assassination.That autumn in 1980, when I was 17, was tumultuous. I had spent the entire summer working for a Congressional candidate in my home district. On 4 November, I gathered with my co-workers and the Congressman and watched in horror as everything we held dear was trounced by Ronald Reagan in a landslide election. It wasn’t enough that President Carter conceded the election three hours before the polls closed on the west coast, thus sending voters who had been waiting in line home in droves. As we watched, each of the Senate’s liberal warhorses, Frank Church, Birch Bayh, George McGovern – and, to our horror, our own Senate “workhorse” Warren “Maggie” Magnuson – all lost their seats. While our representative had a safe district and re-won his seat, the funereal mood in the room led to plenty of grief-driven drinking.All summer long and into the fall, I had been in love with one of my young co-workers. Previously, after a couple of glasses of wine, I had showed up at his doorstep, determined to declare my love. He had acted the perfect gentleman, cooking me dinner as he played me his favourite records, including those of his hero John Lennon.After hours of listening to Lennon’s oeuvre (and that of other artists, including Jackson Browne and The Beach Boys), he had delivered me sober and untouched to my parents’ house. I had swallowed the indignity, and the night had gone unremarked upon for months.This night, however, the evening of the election, he offered me a ride home. As we got into his car, he told me that he could a) drop me off at my folks’ house, or b) take me home to his. I chose b) and we spent the night trying to make each other feel better about the election results.The next morning, as I was waking up thinking that he had finally realised that he loved me too, the first words out of his mouth were: “Last night was a mistake.”What did John Lennon have to scream about?I returned to the dorms to lick my wounds and tried to imagine how America was about to change. A few weeks went past, and I realised that I was late. This was back in 1980: home pregnancy tests did not exist, and the campus health centre informed me that I could not be tested until a full two weeks after the day I should have started my period. I debated not telling him, but then I did. He was not happy. He was supposed to be leaving right after Christmas for several months travelling in Europe. A baby was not what he had in mind.I tried to focus on my studies, but all I could think was that I had wrecked my chance of escaping my working-class existence, the one my parents transplanted from Manchester to America.Barry paints a portrait of a Lennon who loved being a full-time dad, but as women throughout time have discovered, it’s difficult to be creative when you’re looking after a baby. Domestication can be the enemy of the creative. Years later, when I had my own babies, I loved them madly, and at the same time wondered if my creative brain would ever emerge from the endless nappies and mindless games on the floor.Now, from a distance, I can see just how awful it must have been for that man in 1980. It was supposed to be his time to travel and see the world before returning to begin law school.And law school? How would he and I have supported ourselves with both of us in school? My own mother had given birth to me at 17: was I really willing to throw away a future free of such encumberments? I had thought about abortion, but as much as I was committed to other women’s rights to terminate their pregnancies, I felt twisted in my confusion. I can only imagine what coiled thing sat in his belly while he waited to hear. Lennon once sang that he was “so tired, my mind is on the blink”: that was the two of us, during those weeks of waiting.Even for someone like Lennon, who had every advantage that a parent could want, fatherhood lent an order to his life that he thrived upon, but drove him round the bend at the same time. Barry’s portrayal of that doubled sense of the self – the one who loves the child but rues the lost sense of me – hit me like an icy punch from an Alberta clipper.He called me every day to ask if I had started yet. If the circumstances were different, this attention from him would be just what I had wanted.The first day I can go in and be tested is 7 December. Results will take 24 hours. I make arrangements to meet him the following afternoon. He wants to hear the news in person, and he drives 90 minutes up to meet me. When I tell him that the results were negative – we have dodged a baby – his relief is loud. It is obvious that as of this moment, he is rid of me, and he couldn’t be more happy. While I’m happy to not be pregnant, I’m hurt that he is so bloody happy to be rid of me.I am sleeping when the phone rings in my dorm room later in the evening. It’s my mum, and I kick myself for having forgotten to call and wish her a happy anniversary. But her voice cracks:“John Lennon was murdered,” she says.I know that he will be devastated. I debate what to do. I do what I think is the right thing: I call him to tell him how sorry I am, how much I know he must be hurting at the death of his hero.He doesn’t want to talk to me, and I hang up the phone. It is the last time we talk.Kevin Barry: ‘I want to go as wild as I can within my stories’ There is a moment in Beatlebone where Lennon tries on a dead man’s suit: “[The suit] is very old and heavy. A word appears in his mouth – worsted … Death be good to him, he says, and he slips an arm into a sleeve.”Barry’s words so often have texture, a weighty feeling in your mouth that evokes the sensory experience they describe. This sentence carries on it the shiver of impending death.In this last month, when we lost so many musical icons, we have been reminded that it is our dead musical heroes that make us, too. After John Lennon died, many were willing to re-examine his marriage to Yoko Ono, to stop seeing her as the harridan who broke up the Beatles, and instead as the wife who had given Lennon stability and tranquility. In recent articles about the loss of David Bowie, much has been made of how his marriage to Iman relieved him of a profound loneliness.Sign up to our Bookmarks newsletter Beatlebone transported me both in space and time, often causing me to laugh out loud at its humour, to shed tears at its truthfulness. But in the end, it also delivered me back into the gentle arms of my current life. We have all had moments when the the possibilities from our past slip their hands into ours, reminding us that our failures at love are what led us to the others that keep us warm at night. Or, to quote another Beatle, Paul McCartney: “The love you take is equal to the love you make.”Beatlebone is published by Canongate, for £12.99. Buy it from the Guardian Bookshop for £10.39