John Gaustad, who has died aged 68, was a quietly spoken New Zealander who revolutionised the British sports books industry. In 1985 he opened Sportspages, a small shop in Caxton Walk, off Charing Cross Road in London; and for two decades it played an extraordinary role – part-conventional bookshop, part-social club, part-shrine – that transformed the perception of sports writing within publishing. Though Sportspages itself has gone, Gaustad’s other brainchild, the William Hill Sports Book award, lives on as testament to his vision.Born in Wellington, John was the son of Robert, an accountant, and his wife, Nancy (nee Bennett), a legal secretary. He travelled to Britain in 1974, with a philosophy degree from the Victoria University of Wellington, where he had worked in the bookshop. That experience helped him get jobs at Dillons in London and Heffers in Cambridge, where he began to think about the possibilities of niche bookselling. He settled on sport.His timing was perfect. In intellectual circles an interest in sport had long been considered a mild, slightly disreputable eccentricity rather than the near-essential social accoutrement it has since become. Now London was full of young, sport-obsessed graduates who were thirsting to read intelligent accounts of it. A good sports book was a good book that happened to be about sport In the 1980s English football was in disgrace, and in the shop’s early years soccer books were outsold by cricket. But there were all kinds of underlying trends, and Gaustad hit several different aspects of the zeitgeist at once: the trend towards the academic study of sport; the thirst for participation (first running, then cycling); and a growing enthusiasm for American sport, encouraged by shiny new Channel 4 and cheap flights to the US. “He had almost an American approach to sports writing,” said David Luxton, who worked at Sportspages for 12 years before becoming a literary agent. “A good sports book was a good book that happened to be about sport. American publishers got that much earlier than British ones.”And the revival of football was on its way, big time. Even before it arrived, Gaustad grabbed hold of the craze for subversive football fanzines, creating space for them by expanding on both sides as the neighbouring shops fell vacant. He began reprinting forgotten sporting classics. And Sportspages became an ideal venue for launch parties and signing sessions: when Muhammad Ali came in to sign Thomas Hauser’s biography of him, mounted police had to control the crowds. Luxton recalled: “In the 90s you’d arrive for work on a Saturday and there would be Germans and Norwegians queueing to load up with books before going to watch a Premiership match.”The venture expanded northwards as well as sideways, opening in Manchester in 1992. Gaustad planned for Glasgow and dreamed of New York. “He was a bookseller to the core,” said Rob Bagchi, Sportspages’ finance manager. “He would spend months researching other bookshops, going down on his knees to study bottom shelves and see how they arranged their stock.”Guardian writers nominated for William Hill Sports Book of the Year award Gaustad began the William Hill prize in 1989, in conjunction with the bookmaker’s long-serving PR chief Graham Sharpe. In the first year of the award, the winner received prize money of £1,000, a free bet worth £100, a day at the races and a leatherbound copy of their book. Helped by early wins for Hauser in 1991 and Nick Hornby’s groundbreaking 1992 Arsenal memoir, Fever Pitch, it soon became high-profile. “John would have made a great poker player,” said Sharpe. “Inscrutable but very strong-minded.”Sportspages, however, was too hot not to cool down. And even before Hurricane Amazon roared through the book trade, Gaustad became beset by multiple problems: his friendly bank manager was replaced by less sympathetic apparatchiks; rents began to spiral; bigger booksellers expanded their sports sections; and in 1997 the net book agreement, which prevented discounting, finally collapsed, with disastrous consequences for the smaller players.Gaustad himself was diagnosed with prostate cancer and, though he recovered physically, lost much of his fizz. In 2003 he tried to save the shop by merging with a mail-order company in an ill-judged deal; he was rapidly forced out. The shop closed two years later, although Gaustad continued to chair the judging panel for the awards until he retired in 2015, just before being diagnosed with a brain tumour. He is survived by his wife, Clare Davies-Jones, and their daughters, Kate and Sarah.Sportspages’ existence coincided almost exactly with the 19-year run of Les Misérables in the Palace Theatre over the road. The shop was joyous not miserable, and its memory and impact lives on.• John Neville Gaustad, bookseller, born 3 February 1948; died 3 June 2016