The American short-story writer Edith Pearlman has reached the final stage of the world’s richest prize for a single short story.Pearlman, whose stories have won her the National Book Critics Circle award and the PEN/Malamud award in the US, was shortlisted for the £30,000 Sunday Times EFG short story award for Unbeschert, the account of a marriage. “Plain competent woman, flirtatious feckless man, no money to speak of, who gained? Unbeschert – a misalliance,” she writes.Zimbabwean Petina Gappah, winner of the Guardian first book award for her collection of short stories An Elegy for Easterly, made the lineup for the Sunday Times shortlist with The News of Her Death, set in a hair stylist’s in Zimbabwe, while Irish author Colum McCann was picked for What Time Is It Now, Where You Are? Judge and Sunday Times literary editor Andrew Holgate described McCann’s entry as a “gripping piece of meta-fiction”.The shortlist is completed by Canadian novelist Nicholas Ruddock’s The Phosphorescence, American writer Alix Christie’s The Dacha, and British author Jonathan Tel’s The Human Phonograph, set on a Chinese nuclear base. Last year, Tel won the Commonwealth Short Story prize for the same story.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Zimbabwean author Petina Gappah won the Guardian first book award for her collection of short stories. Photograph: Sarah Lee for the Guardian“What impressed me most about this year’s shortlist is the sheer variety of form and subject matter,” said Holgate, “from Colum McCann’s gripping piece of meta-fiction to the dreamlike qualities of Nicholas Ruddock’s The Phosphorescence and the nostalgia of Edith Pearlman’s Unbeschert. Interwar New York, a hair stylist in Africa, a dacha near East Berlin and a research station in China’s nuclear weapons programme – quite some breadth, in a collection of exceptionally accomplished stories.” The author Mark Haddon, who joined Holgate on the judging panel, said that it had been “interesting and salutary for a writer of short stories to note the breadth of often contradictory qualities that different members of the panel expected a really good short story to demonstrate”. The judging panel for the prize also includes the broadcaster and novelist Melvyn Bragg, critic Alex Clark and author Rose Tremain.“The lesson being: don’t expect to please every reader but whichever kind of reader you’re trying to please, make your story as near perfect as you can. Rewrite and edit, rinse and repeat,” said Haddon. “Irrespective of whether a particular story touched us, I think we all came to appreciate writers who had ironed out all those snarls and glitches which litter every writer’s early drafts and produced a final draft which felt truly finished.”The winner of the award will be announced on 22 April. The prize goes to a story in English of up to 6,000 words, by an author from anywhere in the world who has been published in the UK or Ireland. Previous winners include the Chinese writer Yiyun Li, and CK Stead from New Zealand.