It is less than a year since 2 Dope Queens (iTunes, WNYC) shot a comedy glitter cannon all over the podcast sphere, but it has firmly established itself as a guaranteed laugh-out-loud listen.The Dope Queens in question are Phoebe Robinson (Broad City) and Jessica Williams (The Daily Show), who cover all the important issues in life. How to Channel Your Inner White Lady, Make Man Buns Great Again and Dad Bods: it’s all here. New tangents are defined on Dude For a Day, in which they brand Beyoncé’s If I Was a Boy “so basic” and riff on how, if they woke up male, they would send a “’Sup” to 10 girls in their phone in the hope of taking one of them back to their American Psycho-style apartment for six-minute sex.As Robinson and Williams squeal with laughter, you realise they are the kind of women you would want to drink a cocktail with, whether they’re talking about the human papilloma virus (HPV) or the overimpressed white woman who “literally like Weekend at Bernie’s herself into the seat” watching The Color Purple.The 50 best podcasts of 2016 They trade the kind of one-liners that only best friends can, as well as showcasing new standup comics live from Brooklyn. Obsessions with Bono, the Kardashians and Billy Joel weave through the series. Joel and his soft hands earned their place after the duo faced the dilemma of whether or not to be offended when they were asked to move to the front row “because Billy likes to look at pretty women”. (Wisely, they didn’t take a stand and enjoyed the gig.) These two are so funny they can abbreviate just about anything without it being annoying. “Googs,” “The Dalai Lams” and “Post-coi-coi” are all part of their language.One of their finest episodes features them answering listeners’ questions. A woman who wants to “get her ebony and ivory” on with a colleague receives heart-warming wisdom. “You might be the first lady outside of the white realms that he’s tried to put the move on,” says Robinson. “Realise that you probably look regal AF,” advises Williams.They’re promising a third season soon, so long may the Queens (and their argument over whether Lenny Kravitz is hot or not) reign.If you like this, try this … Call Your Girlfriend.