For decades the area around Sydney’s North Head, at Manly, had been a men’s cruising area. Users have called it “the shy man’s beat”, or the “last stop on Sydney’s gay sex tour”. Some men would sunbathe, neatly folding their clothes, waiting for a shadow to cross their eyes.US-born Scott Johnson, 27, was a gentle person and a mathematics prodigy. On the day he disappeared, in December 1988, his professor assured Scott his doctorate work was complete.“In all likelihood, he went to go celebrate,” says Steven, his older brother by two years and a Boston-based IT entrepreneur. “Scott loved company. In the past year we have heard from a lover who believed he went to look for companionship.”Police found Johnson’s clothes folded at the top of a 50-metre cliff. His naked body was at the bottom, and his death was ruled a suicide the following year. In 2012 the New South Wales deputy state coroner Carmel Forbes overturned the suicide finding but could not determine how he died.NSW police have formed Operation Parrabell, a team of eight detectives who will apply an FBI measure of hate bias – criteria to determine if a crime is motivated by bias against, for instance, sexual orientation – to see if as many as 88 Sydney deaths dating from the 1970s onward, including 30 unsolved cases, were gay hate crimes.Many cases were marked suicide or cause unknown, but past police conclusions are now being called into question. Johnson’s death is on the list. A new SBS investigation has uncovered “serious mistakes” were made in the initial investigations, including the misspelling of one dead man’s name. Steve Johnson tells Guardian Australia that applying the FBI hate bias criteria is unlikely to uncover gay hate crimes because the stringent checklist requires cases to be solved, perpetrators to be identified and their hatred of victims to be proclaimed.Instead, he says, a better exercise would be to pull every police file on every death near a gay Sydney meeting place from the 1970s to about 2000 and ask: was this case properly investigated?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Steve Johnson, left, and Scott Johnson in their last photograph together, in 1988Later this year a third inquest will be held into Scott’s death, which will benefit from Steve’s self-funded private investigation, which has nominated 50 to 60 “persons of interest”. “I am very hopeful whoever killed Scott will be finally brought to justice,” he says.‘How come it’s not been in the news?’Steve Johnson is among the grieving family members and partners who were interviewed by Blackfella Films (Redfern Now, First Australians) for SBS’s multifaceted Deep Water project – including a documentary, a podcast, an online interactive hub and a four-part fictional drama inspired by real events. The aim is to attract a national audience to the story, and to uncover more possible gay hate crimes and murders in Sydney.The producer, Darren Dale, says he was inspired by hearing in 2012 about the murder of Ahmed Ghoniem, who was found in Sydney apartment with multiple stab wounds and blunt trauma injuries. His home had been set alight. No one has been charged over the death.The following day about 30,000 people marched in Melbourne to honour the rape and murder victim Jill Meagher, whose killer was caught and imprisoned. The two attacks were unrelated but Dale, who is gay, couldn’t help but compare the public response.“That death galvanised people, everyone was talking about it – as it should be, there was a real threat to women – and television broke into schedules to report it,” he says.“I live in Potts Point [in Sydney], and I thought, if there is someone attacking and murdering gay men – more gay people living there than I suspect anywhere else in Australia – then how come it’s not in any of the papers, it’s not been in the news?”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Noah Taylor, Yael Stone and Craig McLachlan in Deep Water. Photograph: Sean O'Reilly/SBSThe richness of storytellingIt’s May, and Guardian Australia is at a former police station at Sydney’s Malabar, where the four-part Deep Water drama is in production. The specific story and characters of the miniseries are fictional, but it is inspired by real events. The four-part drama will air before the documentary.On a whiteboard on the set is pinned a map of Bondi beach and photographs of murder victims. In the scene, a caller phones to report “another body in Marks Park”. Shawn Seet, the director of the lauded Canberra political drama The Code, is at the helm.Set in the present day, fictional Detective Senior Constable Tori Lustigman, played by Yael Stone of Orange Is the New Black, uses her own DNA to see if it matches DNA found on a piece of lead piping, which she suspects may be her gay brother’s. His 1989 drowning had been recorded as a suicide.The drama’s central concerns are: Did the fictional Kyle “Hammers” Hampton (Craig McLachlan) – a one-time member of a gay-bashing gang – play a role in these men’s deaths? And why is an older officer, Inspector Peel (William McInnes), so angered that Lustigman is reinvestigating old cases?As Lustigman, Stone is wearing a brown leather jacket, with her hair tied back. She’s in heated discussion with Detective Nick Manning, played by a bespectacled Noah Taylor. It's going to be quite confronting and moving, from the sounds of it. It’s such an interesting packageYael Stone “The story is inspired by events,” Stone says, during a break on set, “but the producers are wanting to be very sensitive because these are deeply traumatic things that have happened to people and their families. They’ve really steered clear of basing characters on real people.”The show “draws attention to the treatment of marginalised communities”, she says.The documentary following the drama “is going to be quite confronting and moving, from the sounds of it. It’s such an interesting package. For SBS to be so supportive of making this wonderful drama, and pairing it with real-life stories, it will add such a richness to the way this content is interpreted by the public.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stone, Taylor and the director, Shawn Seet, on set in Bondi for Deep Water. Photograph: Sean O'Reilly/SBSThe ‘gay ATM’It was not until 2005, 17 years after Scott Johnson’s death, that Steve realised his beloved brother might have died violently: he had been sent a clipping about the violent deaths of three other gay men in Sydney.That year the NSW senior deputy state coroner Jacqueline Milledge found that the television newsreader Ross Warren, 25, and barman John Russell, 31, had been murdered in two separate attacks in 1989, most probably thrown off a cliff at Bondi’s Marks Park, which was known as a gay beat.Milledge found the investigation of Warren’s disappearance “grossly inadequate and shameful”, and the investigation of Russell’s death “inadequate and naive”. Police had lost vital evidence, including a tuft of hair found in Russell’s hand.There was a strong possibility that a third man, Giles Mattaini, 27, who had been missing since 1985, had died in similar circumstances at Bondi.Galvanised into action by Milledge’s findings, Johnson hired a private investigator and together they began conducting their own investigation into Scott’s death. “If I hadn’t conducted my own investigation over the last 10 years, all would be quiet,” he says. “There would be no memory of this period in Sydney’s history, and families would be still mystified and grieving with no help from the police.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Scott Johnson at Cambridge University in 1984. Photograph: Steve JohnsonSteve Johnson believes, along with many others, that inherent biases play a role in both the minimal media coverage of these stories and in the public and police response to violent crimes against gay people.“I’m unsure what role homophobia played in the 1980s,” he says, “but it certainly seemed that the police systematically avoided investigating the deaths of gay men, or men presumed to be gay.”In Johnson’s case, police repeatedly denied that North Head was a gay beat. His brother says this was an implausible conclusion: many gay men have told his investigation that the area had been a popular beat since the 1960s but gay men were often too scared to report assaults because “police treated them like perpetrators, not victims”.Steve’s investigation also included interviewing former gay-bashing gang members, who had essentially operated with impunity because there was still a “lot of hatred towards gays”, he says. Homosexuality was only decriminalised in NSW in 1984 and the Aids pandemic was in full flight.“One gang that we talked to referred to this particular beat where Scott died, and some of the other areas around Manly, as an ATM … they would stop on their way to the bars on a Friday night, king hit a man they’d find at the beat, take his money, his leather jacket, his jewellery – anything that was valuable.“They’d not have to worry about the police coming after them.”• The four-part Deep Water drama premieres on Wednesday 5 October on SBS; Deep Water – The Real Story airs on SBS on Sunday 16 October at 8.30pm