This year marks the bicentenary of Charlotte Brontë’s birth in Thorton, Yorkshire in 1816. Best known for her much-loved novel Jane Eyre, Charlotte has inspired aspiring writers since it was first published in October 1847.Under the male pseudonym Currer Bell, Charlotte brought us wonderful stories from the heartbreaking and desolate Villette to the bold and courageous Shirley. Charlotte loved and wrote so passionately and it is this desire that brings to life the characters from her pages of her novels, whether it’s the fairy-like Jane, brooding Edward Rochester, chilly Lucy Snowe, vibrant Shirley or the violent mad woman in the attic.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Earliest known writings of Charlotte Brontë. From circa 1826, when Charlotte co-wrote with her siblings. Photograph: Brontë Parsonage Museum/British LibraryWe have picked 10 of our favourite quotes: Women are supposed to be very calm generally: but women feel just as men feel.” — Jane Eyre I am no bird; and no net ensnares me: I am a free human being with an independent will.”— Jane Eyre      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mia Wasikowska stars as the heroine in the film adaptation of Jane Eyre. Photograph: Photo Credit: Laurie Sparham/Publicity image from film company  I care for myself. The more solitary, the more friendless, the more unsustained I am, the more I will respect myself.” — Jane Eyre  Reader, I married him.” — Jane Eyre I could bend you with my finger and my thumb…But whatever I do with this cage, I cannot get at you, and it is your soul that I want.” — Jane Eyre      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   BBC film adaptation of the greatest love story ever told: Jane Eyre and Edward Rochester. Photograph: Laurie Sparham/Publicity image from film company Do you think, because I am poor, obscure, plain and little, I am soulless and heartless? You think wrong! - I have as much soul as you, - and full as much heart! And if God had gifted me with some beauty and much wealth, I should have made it as hard for you to leave me, as it is now for me to leave you!” — Jane Eyre I ask you to pass through life at my side to be my second self, and my best earthly companion.” — Jane Eyre      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Madeleine Worrall (Jane Eyre) in Jane Eyre by Bristol Old Vic and National Theatre @ Lyttelton, National Theatre. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the Guardian “Love is real — the most real, the most lasting, the sweetest and yet the bitterest thing we know.” — Shirley I mean that I value vision, and dread being struck stone blind.” — Villette The human heart has hidden treasures, In secret kept, in silence sealed; The thoughts, the hopes, the dreams, the pleasures, Whose charms were broken if revealed.” — Evening Solace      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   View towards Top Withens Bronte Country West Yorkshire UK. Photograph: AlamyThere are so many captivating quotes to choose from. Tweet us your favourite Charlotte Brontë quotes and we will share a few here.