Diana Henry’s chicken with leeks, apples and cider This is my partner’s favourite dish (and the first thing I ever cooked for him) so it’s quite special to me. Perfect comfort food. Although it could just as easily come from Cornwall or Devon (because of the cider), it really takes me to Normandy.Serves 4chicken 8 thighs, skin on, bone in, or a mixture of jointssalt and pepperunsalted butter 40gleeks 700gdessert apples 2plain flour 1 tbspdry cider 500mlthyme 6 sprigs, plus leaves from 2 more sprigs to servedouble cream 150mlcaster sugar 1 tspSeason the chicken pieces and heat 25g of the butter in a large saute pan (one which has a lid) or a wide casserole. Brown the chicken on both sides and then set the pieces aside while you cook the leeks. (Make sure not to burn the butter.)Remove the tough outer leaves from the leeks. Trim the bases and cut off the tough, very dark leaves at the top. Wash the leeks really well, making sure that you get rid of any soil that is lodged in them. Cut into about 3cm lengths. Add the leeks to the fat in the pan in which you cooked the chicken and saute without browning for about 10 minutes; they should soften but not become sloppy.Meanwhile, peel one of the apples, halve and cut into wedges. Melt the remaining butter in a small frying pan and gently brown the wedges on each side. Leave until you need them.Add the flour to the leeks and turn them over in the juices. Continue to cook for a couple of minutes. Take the pan off the heat and slowly add the cider, stirring all the time. Return to the heat, bring to the boil, then add the chicken, sprigs of thyme and the sauteed apple (don’t wash the apple pan).Immediately reduce the heat to a simmer, put the lid on and leave to cook over a low heat for about 35 minutes. The chicken should be cooked through, with no trace of pink.Lift the chicken pieces out of the casserole and simmer the cooking juices until reduced by about one-third. Add the cream, bring to the boil and cook for a couple of minutes.Peel and cut the other apple into wedges and put in the frying pan in which you cooked the first apple. Saute gently, adding the caster sugar to help the slices caramelise nicely on the outside.Cook until the apple slices are tender. Return the chicken to the sauce and heat gently. At the last minute, add the newly sautéed apples, sprinkle with the thyme leaves and serve.From A Bird in the Hand: Chicken Recipes for Every Day and Every Mood by Diana Henry (Mitchell Beazley, £20). Click here to order a copy from the Guardian Bookshop for £14 Stephanie Alexander’s grilled spiced indian quail with quail eggs in coconut sauce and fried coconut       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Quail and curried eggs. Photograph: Martin Poole for the ObserverServes 6For the grilled quailquail 6coriander seeds 1 tbspblack peppercorns 20cardamom pods 12cloves 1 tspcumin seeds 1 tspcurry powder 1 tspsalt 1 tspbutter 60g, meltedfresh ginger 30g, finely choppedolive oilfried coconut ½ quantity (see below)For the fried coconutlight vegetable oil 2 tbspgarlic 4 cloves, finely choppedspring onions 4, finely chopped (including green tops)ground coriander 1 tspground cumin 1 tspdesiccated coconut 140gsalt a pinchFor the quail eggs in coconut sauceground turmeric 2 tspgarlic 4 cloves, finely choppedground coriander 2 tspground ginger 1 tspground cumin 1 tsponions 400g, finely choppedlemongrass 1 stick (tender part only), finely choppedtomatoes 400g, peeled, seeded and choppedcoconut milk 235mllemon juice 1 tbspfried coconut 1 tbsp (see above)quail eggs 12, hardboiled, peeledTo prepare the quail, cut off the first wing joint and drop it into a bowl. Cut off the head and neck, if still attached, and add to the bowl. Remember, do not cut the neck skin too close to the body as the skin will shrink on contact with the heat, exposing some of the breast meat, which will dry quickly. Gently push the neck back from the breast and find the wishbone, which is embedded in the breast flesh. Work around each curve of the wishbone with a small sharp knife, especially around the join of the 2 arcs. Feel the shape of the wishbone with your fingers and ease it out; drop it into the bowl. Cut off the feet (if still present) and add to the bowl.Using kitchen scissors, cut up the back of the bird either side of the backbone right through to the neck opening. Drop the backbone into the bowl. Open out the bird, skin-side down, and remove the heart and liver (if still present)and add to the bowl. Rinse the bird under cold water, then pat it dry with kitchen paper and put it on a plate. Wash and dry your chopping board well and return the bird to the board, skin uppermost. Press firmly on the breastbone of the bird to flatten it further (this technique of splitting and flattening a small bird is known as “spatchcocking”). Either refrigerate or leave at room temperature for up to 1 hour until you are ready to cook the bird.To make the fried coconut, heat the oil in a heavy-based frying pan. Fry the garlic and spring onion for 1-2 minutes. Add the spices, then coconut and salt. Lift and stir really well to mix flavours, and cook until the coconut is a rich brown. Allow to cool completely, then store for up to a week in a screw-top jar. To freshen, tip the required quantity into a dry frying pan and stir until warmed through.To make the grilled spiced quail, grind all spices to a powder and mix with the salt, butter and ginger. Work 1 teaspoon of the spice paste under the skin over entire breast surface of each bird. Smooth the skin back into place, tucking it over the neck edge. Rub a little paste over the legs and the bony inside of each bird. Reserve the remaining paste. Brush the birds with a little oil.To grill, place the birds flesh-side to heat and grill for 8 minutes. Turn and briefly seal the skin side for no more than 1 minute, otherwise the spice paste will burst through skin. Prick the thickest part of the thigh to see if the juice runs clear. If undercooked, return to the grill, flesh-side to the heat source for 2 minutes. Remove the quail to a heated plate for 5 minutes, then bone them. Spoon over a little reserved spice paste and turn the quails in it. Serve scattered with fried coconut. I like to offer Indian pickled limes or a wedge of fresh lime also.To make the quail eggs in coconut sauce, cook all the ingredients, except the eggs, over a moderate heat for 20 minutes. Stir from time to time to prevent sticking. Add the eggs and cook for 10 minutes. This dish can be made the day before and gently reheated. Serve with the grilled quail.From The Cook’s Companion by Stephanie Alexander (Penguin, £85). Click here to order a copy from the Guardian BookshopJeremy Lee’s grouse & Co      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Grouse and Co: ‘A flourish of watercress and all is in readiness’. Photograph: Martin Poole for the ObserverBuy the grouse intact if you can, this delivers the finest result. The term applied to this is long-legged, which means plucked but not drawn. There is a challenging chore necessary here which is to carefully remove the intestines leaving the livers and heart attached within the resulting cavity. To do this, put on a pair of rubber gloves, snip the bottom and pull the intestine out (you may need to insert a small knife). The time-honoured request to a butcher or a game dealer accompanied by a winning smile may help dispatch this task.The feet may be removed or wrapped in tin foil, the bird roasted and the foil removed to add nobility to the serving, especially if each bird is sat upon a crouton of bread upon a great platter.Serves 2 greedy trenchermenFor the grouseyoung grouse 2, long-legged if possibleunsalted butter 100gFor the croutebread 2 slices, the size of your palmbutter to spreadFor the pounded heart and livergrouse heart and liverMadeira 1 tspbrandy 1 tspbutter 25-30gFor the bread saucebest milk 250mlonions 2 smallcloves 3bay leaves 3mace 1 piecewhite bread 60g, crusts removednutmeg a last little scrape or twoFor the breadcrumbswhite bread 80g, crusts removedunsalted butter 25gsherry 50mlFor the game chipswaxy potatoes 2 large, King Edward or a Desiree perhapsvegetable oilsalt and pepperTo serveredcurrant, crab apple or medlar jellywatercressPreheat the oven to 240C/gas mark 9 (or as hot as your oven will go). The shock of heat is vital for cooking game well. If the birds are intact, with care, cover the feet with tin foil. Smother each bird in butter and liberally season all over. Place the birds on a roasting tray and put into the heated oven.Cook for 8 minutes undisturbed then lift from the oven and baste swiftly with the buttery goodness accrued in the bottom of the pan. Return to the oven and cook for a further 8-12 minutes until the birds offer the merest resilience when prodded. Remove the birds from the oven and then from the roasting tray and let them rest in a warm spot.To make the croute, put the roasting pan on a gentle heat. Lightly butter the slices of bread and lay in the pan, then move swiftly over the pan to ensure much grouse permeates the bread. Let this fry gently until crisp and browned thoroughly.Once the grouse is rested, pluck out the heart and the liver. Mash these with a fork and add the Madeira, brandy, salt and pepper. Add the butter and mash again. Spread this upon the croute and sit the bird atop. Spoon over any remaining goodness in the pan.To make the bread sauce, pour the milk into a heavy bottomed pot.Peel the onions and chop coarsely. Add these to the pot with the cloves, bay leaves and mace. Place the pot on a gentle heat and let warm through thoroughly without boiling. Take off the heat, cover the pot and let the infused milk stand for 10-20 minutes.Cut the bread into large pieces and place into another saucepan.Pour the infused milk through a strainer and then return to a very gentle heat. A double boiler is rather handy here. Once the milk is warm, stir well and season with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Pour the resulting strained warm milk over the bread. Cover and keep warm.For the breadcrumbs, warm a frying pan on a gentle heat. Add in the butter and when melted, add in the breadcrumbs. Mix well and when the crumbs rise in a buttery froth, gently agitate and repeat often until the crumbs are coloured gold. Add in the sherry and step back. Agitate the pan further and ensure the contents are mixed well. Ensure the sherry has been cooked fully and when the crumbs have acquired an excellent crunch, season with a pinch of salt and pepper, remove from the heat and tip into a bowl. Dab away any excess butter. Keep warm.To make the game chips, peel and slice the potatoes paper thin. Wash the slices thoroughly until the water runs clear. Drain and dry well.Heat a heavy bottomed pan with about 6-7cm of vegetable oil within. When hot, lay in the slices of potato carefully, stir gently and let cook, moving them slightly until golden brown. Spoon out the crisps and lay upon some paper to drain. Season with sea salt and black pepper. Keep warm.Now all that is required is to place the bird on its crouton spread with the liver and heart onto a handsome plate. Decant the bread sauce into a lovely bowl, likewise the jelly and breadcrumbs. Perhaps a flourish of watercress and all is in readiness.Jeremy Lee is chef proprietor of Quo Vadis, London W1D 3LLRick Stein’s moules marinieres       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Moules marinieres: ‘Every time I cook this, I think of the past,’ says Rick Stein. Photograph: Martin Poole for the ObserverThere was a time, long ago, when a bowl of moules marinières and a glass of Muscadet, in Brittany, was to me simply the most exotic thing. You couldn’t get mussels in Britain unless you picked them yourself off the rocks. Every time I cook this, I think of the past.Serves 4mussels 1.75kg, cleanedunsalted butter 50gonion 1 medium, finely choppeddry white wine 50mlparsley 1 tbsp, coarsely choppedTo clean the mussels, wash under plenty of cold running water. Discard any that are open and won’t close up when lightly squeezed. Pull out the tough fibrous beards or “byssus” protruding from between the tightly closed shells.Knock off any barnacles with a large knife and give the mussels another quick rinse to remove any little bits of shell.Put the cleaned mussels, butter, onion and white wine into a very large pan. Cover and cook over a high heat for 3-4 minutes, shaking the pan every now and then, until the mussels have opened.Spoon the mussels into bowls. Add the parsley to the remaining juices, then pour all but the last tablespoon or two, which might contain some grit, back over the mussels.From Fish & Shellfish by Rick Stein (BBC Books, £26). Click here to order a copy from the Guardian Bookshop for £21.32Giorgio Locatelli’s amarone and radicchio risotto      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Amarone and radicchio risotto. Photograph: Martin Poole for the ObserverServes 4good chicken stock 1.5 litresbutter 50gonion 1, chopped very very finelysuperfine carnaroli rice 400gAmarone 200ml, plus a little extra for serving (optional)radicchio 1, chopped, plus 4 tips of leaves per personsalt and freshly ground black pepperFor the mantecaturabutter around 75g, cold, cut into small piecesparmesan cheese around 100g, grated (plus a little extra for serving, if youlike)Bring your pot of stock to the boil, close to where you are going to make your risotto, turn down the heat and keep at a light simmer.Melt the butter in a heavy-bottomed pan, and add the chopped onion. Cook gently until softened, but not coloured (about 5 minutes).Add the rice and stir around to coat in the butter and “toast” the rice. Make sure all the grains are warm, then add the Amarone.Let the wine evaporate completely, until the onions and rice are dry. Add the chopped radicchio.Start to add the stock, a ladleful or two at a time, stirring and scraping the rice in the pan as you do so. When each addition of stock has almost evaporated, add the next ladleful. If the colour of the risotto isn’t as intensely pinky-red as you would like, add a little more wine.Carry on cooking for about 15-17 minutes, adding stock continuously. After about 12-14 minutes, slow up the addition of stock, so that the rice doesn’t become too wet and soupy at this stage.The risotto is ready when the grains are soft, but still al dente. Now you should add the tips of the leaves you kept aside.Turn down the heat, rest the risotto for a minute, then (for the mantecatura) with a wooden spoon, vigorously beat in the cold diced butter and finally the Parmesan – making sure you shake the pan energetically at the same time as you beat. Season to taste.Giorgio Locatelli is chef patron of Locanda Locatelli, 8 Seymour St, London W1H 7JZ