Children’s television was placed “front and centre” of the BBC’s future plans by senior executives at the launch of a dedicated iPlayer Kids app on Tuesday. Speaking at the launch of the new designated app, director general Tony Hall said that children’s content was “so important to the BBC and what the BBC offers to this country”.His comments come after speculation last year that cBeebies and CBBC could face an online-only future as part of cost-cutting ahead of charter renewal at the end of this year. BBC3 was made online only last year, saving the corporation £30m a year.Alice Webb, director of BBC Children’s, said the corporation was committed to broadcast as well as online content for “as long as children are watching it and the majority of viewing is still coming through those channels”.Children’s programmes are the most-watched genre on BBC iPlayer. In 2015 they accounted for a third of the 2.9bn requests for programmes. “We are about riding two horses here, linear and digital,” said Webb.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The BBC iPlayer Kids app on an iPad. Photograph: BBC/PAThe new iPlayer Kids app will only show age-appropriate content free from adverts, but the BBC faced questioning over its decision not to cut off content after a notional bedtime.Webb pointed out that the main iPlayer offered content 24/7 and a time lock had not been raised in parental research ahead of launch.“We haven’t got a great long list of people asking for this,” he said. “Every parent is different and [must do] what fits in with them. What we are trying to do here is give them the option.”In a statement, Webb said: “Children have always been a priority for the BBC ... The BBC iPlayer Kids app meets the needs we know are absolute deal breakers for kids and parents. We’re offering choice and control, wrapped up in a child-friendly design and the largest range of homegrown UK content on a platform parents can trust.”Hall joked that a child who mentioned “British content” in the corporation’s promotional video for the app had already been identified as a “future director general”.Some 80% of 8,400 hours of children’s content on the BBC is “homegrown UK content”, said a spokesman.Separately, the BBC is working on a “big new partnership” concerning online safety, she added.Plans for the app were announced six months ago but content from CBeebies and CBBC will also still remain in the “grown-up” version of BBC iPlayer.