 7.03am GMT SummaryThis is the end of our live blog for today as Victoria remains in the grip of worst fire conditions since Black Saturday. We’ll have a full summary shortly.Firefighters from multiple states continued to battle blazes across Victoria on Sunday as the state saw the worst fire day since 2009’s Black Saturday.At various points throughout Sunday up to 13 emergency-level fires burnt and more than 143 warnings were issued to residents. At least four evacuation orders were given as fast-moving fires raced towards properties on the outskirts of Melbourne, east Victoria and the Gippsland region.Successive heatwaves throughout summer have contributed to the horrendous conditions, worsened by hot, dry and windy weather at the weekend.A cool change had swept through the state by Sunday evening but even though temperatures dropped many fires were exacerbated as strong and gusty winds shifted the direction of fire fronts.“Tomorrow will be cooler,” fire services commissioner Craig Lapsley said. “However, it doesn’t change the conditions. It doesn’t bring rain and we will see the fire danger decrease but the fire will still have the potential to do damage over the next number of days.” 6.49am GMT I’m going to wrap up this live blog shortly. If you are in affected areas stay on top of warnings and advice from authorities and take care. We’ll continue our coverage of the fires tomorrow. 6.47am GMT The fires have forced the cancellation of the last stage of the Herald Sun cycling tour.While there was no direct fire threat to the 124km fourth stage of the race on the Mornington Peninsula, police and fire services had to be diverted to other areas.It is understood to be the first time in the tour’s 61-year history that such circumstances have forced a stage to be cancelled. 6.44am GMT From AAP: Fire is at the back fence of homes in the Victorian town of Morwell and is threatening the state’s biggest power stations.Fire authorities say there is a blaze in the Hazelwood open cut coal mine and fire is also around the Yallourn open cut mine.Of biggest concern to fire crews is the Latrobe Valley city of Morwell where fire is threatening homes on the town’s western edge. 6.18am GMT   CFA battle a fast moving grass fire which gets close to homes in the Melbourne northern suburb Craigieburn, Feb. 9, 2014. Photograph: David Crosling/AAPIMAGE 6.15am GMT Key event“Across Victoria today we’ve faced conditions that are the worst we’ve seen in five years,” Napthine told reporters a few minutes ago.“Victoria has responded extraordinarily well under these challenging conditions. We’ve see all our emergency services agencies working together to protect lives first and foremost in Victoria, working together to protect strategic assets and working together to protect homes.”Napthine said lessons learned from Black Saturday have been put into action and the state has seen a better coordinated response and a better result.“The Victorian government has an assistance package in place that will be rolled out immediately to those who have lost their homes. Family assistance packages will be available to those who have been relocated due to the fire threat.” 6.07am GMT SummaryAs at 5pm:On top of successive heatwaves the state has seen significant winds with a change that has dropped temperatures but fanned flames.Currently 70 fires burning, 143 warnings have been issued to communities today.There are 13 emergency warnings current in Victoria, 12 watch and act advisories and 20 advice level fires.Evacuation orders are in place for some areas in the Gippsland region.Authorities say it is the most serious fire day the state has seen since Black Saturday in 2009.One MFB firefighter was injured by a falling tree.At least two homes have been confirmed lost.An emergency warning remains in place in South Australia for a fire at Bangor which firefighters have been battling for 26 consecutive days. It is out of control and posing a risk to lives and homes.1200 hits per minute to the CFA website and 4000 calls to the hotline.Updated at 6.13am GMT 5.59am GMT That cool change is moving right through the state now, but strong and gusty winds continue to fan flames. Significant smoke from the Gippsland and eastern area is showing up on radar as rain, as often happens with large fires.  In this screenshot from the Bureau of Meteorology, smoke from the Gippsland and eastern region fires shows up as rain on the radar. Photograph: /Bureau of MeteorologyUpdated at 6.01am GMT 5.58am GMT Victorian premier Dennis Napthine will be speaking to media about the fires shortly.  5.54am GMT   Residents with buckets battle a fast moving grass fire which gets close to homes in the Melbourne northern suburb Craigieburn, Feb. 9, 2014. Photograph: David Crosling/(AAP Image 5.37am GMT Another evacuation order from the CFA: If you are located in Bonang, Cabanandra, Deddick Valley, Dellicknora, Tubbut and Amboyne, it is strongly recommended that you evacuate and seek shelter at Delegate Relief Centre at the Delegate Country Club, Bonang Road, Delegate.  5.35am GMT The Gisborne fire, which has seen at least one house lost, has been downgraded to a Watch and Act advisory. The CFA advises however, that conditions can change quickly and is advising residents of Barringo, Cherokee, Kerrie, Macedon, Mount Macedon, New Gisborne to leave now. 5.31am GMT Here is an audio recording of the Victoria fires press briefing by CFA commissioner Craig Lapsley and police commissioner Ken Lay an hour ago. 5.27am GMT A lot of the areas being impacted by these fires are rural properties with livestock. Adam Dent from the Red Cross told ABC that people should check with their local council to see if contingency plans are in place to deal with pets and livestock, including whether the animals can be taken to relief centres. 5.21am GMT In the last half an hour three more emergency warnings have been issued or updated for Wunghnu near Shepparton, Hazelwood and Driffield, and Riddells Creek.Residents in Riddells creek and parts of Wunghnu have been told it is too late to leave and they should take shelter where they are as the fire impacts.Updated at 5.27am GMT 5.05am GMT Jack Foster (@Jackasouras)Fire near the Calder Freeway #vicfires pic.twitter.com/foXm334cSwFebruary 9, 2014George Hall (@geehall1)Walpa smoke as seen from brother's place in Lucknow (Bairnsdale) #vicfires #firevic 15:40 pic.twitter.com/vO3uzk4qSYFebruary 9, 2014 4.52am GMT The day began with 24 fires on the list. There are now 37 but many have started and been put out. Lapsley estimates in excess of 150 fires began today. A number of fires began weeks ago, sparked by lightning.Fires begin one of two ways, said Lapsley. Either by a natural event, or by human hand either in a malicious, foolish or unintended way. Lay confirmed police have visited a number of people who are known to have a history of starting fires as part of their investigations.That’s the end of the press conference.Updated at 4.53am GMT 4.50am GMT The injured firefighter was in Preston, in the metropolitan fire area, Lapsley believes. The incident is being investigated.Firefighters are working to protect the Hazelwood open cut and power station which is under threat from fire.As an indication of evacuation recommendations, nine of the 27 houses doorknocked in one small rural community chose to stay and defend their home. Lapsley described the town as an area where people are aware of fire danger and likely well prepared for fires. 4.45am GMT While the temperature will drop with the “cool change”, the windspeed will stay up into the evening, and so warnings won’t change much, said Lapsley. 4.43am GMT Police are deployed to seven firegrounds including Warrandyte.One house confirmed lost at Warrandyte, one at Mickelton, and they are investigating Gisborne.CFA need to take time to be sure if a lost structure is a house or a shed before confirming.”We do need to take time to get it right,” said Lapsley to prevent unnecessary anxiety.Updated at 4.43am GMT 4.40am GMT There are several significant road closures. You can check updates here.“We’re seeing roads closed on an almost minute by minute basis,” said Lay. 4.39am GMT Victorian Police Commissioner Ken Lay said that police have been deployed to several fires to determine the cause. This does not mean the fires were lit by arsonists, just that the cause is not yet known, he said. 4.38am GMT Tomorrow will be cooler but “it doesn’t change the conditions”. 4.37am GMT One MFB firefighter has been injured by a falling tree, confirms CFA commissioner Craig Lapsley.The day remains very hot, dry and windy with no rain and a significant wind change coming through. The strong wind is preventing aircraft from flying in areas and is increasing fires.Threat to life and property is “still real and happening.”Temperatures, windspeed are excessive.This is the most serious fire day we’ve had in the state in five years. Residents have had limited warning before their property was impacted in some instances.Updated at 4.44am GMT 4.36am GMT The CFA is now holding a briefing on the 143 warnings issued today across multiple communities. “It’s an extremely dynamic environment.”I’ll add key points as we go.Three fires in the outer metropolitan area has already impacted on properties and the Gisborne fire is threatening properties. 4.18am GMT Another evacuation warning has been issued, this time for residents of Cabanandra, Deddick Valley, Dellicknora, Tubbut, Bonang.From CFA:  If you are located in Bonang, Cabanandra, Deddick Valley, Dellicknora, Tubbut and Amboyne, it is strongly recommended that you evacuate and seek shelter at Delegate Relief Centre at the Delegate Country Club, Bonang Road, Delegate. 4.05am GMT NSW RFS commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons confirms they will be sending four helicopters and three strike teams to assist the Victorian firefighting effort. Shane Fitzsimmons (@RFSCommissioner)NSW sending 4 additional helicopters and 3 strike teams to assist colleagues with fires in Victoria.February 9, 2014 3.51am GMT From AAP: Fifty bushfires and grassfires are burning across NSW, with flames encroaching on two major highways.The Princes Highway has been closed in both directions between Timbillica, just north of the Victorian border, and the Victorian town of Orbost due to a large blaze.The Transport Management Centre on Sunday afternoon warned motorists travelling south on the highway were being turned around.Earlier on Sunday a grassfire briefly shut down part of the Hume Highway at Goulburn. 3.39am GMT The CFA has issued a second evacuation order for Bete Bolong, Jarrahmond, and Bete Bolong North.It’s the second evacuation recommendation among 12 emergency warnings for fires in Victoria.Residents evacuating from the two areas are directed to go to the Orbost Relief Centre at Orbost Secondary College, Arnold Street, Orbost.There are 13 watch and act advisories and 25 advice level fires.Updated at 3.40am GMT 3.29am GMT Ian Lunt (@IanLuntEcology)#vicfires view from Hume Hwy at Donnybrook pic.twitter.com/Dr0Oo6gGp6February 9, 2014 3.29am GMT The CFA has confirmed that the Mt Aitkin winery at Gisborne has caught fire, according to ABC. 3.26am GMT There is zero visibility in the air around the Bangor fire in South Australia, the CFS earlier reported. Firefighters have been battling the fire in the Flinders Ranges - currently at emergency level - for 26 consecutive days.Country Fire Service (@CFSAlerts)#Bangor fire smoke aircraft can't see the fire ground. CFS has arranged NSW infra-red line scan aircraft then updated map will be providedFebruary 9, 2014 3.21am GMT Mindy Pawsey (@MKPS001)Getting ready to evacuate. Actually a little nervous now. #vicfires pic.twitter.com/lYzfQRMfJoFebruary 9, 2014 3.18am GMT At least three homes lostTony Bearzatto confirmed to Guardian Australia that two homes have been confirmed lost at Warrandyte and one at Gisbourne. There are reports of more but the CFA has not yet confirmed this.Firefighting resources from interstate have been assisting Victorian efforts for the last week or two, Bearzatto said. NSW RFS has more on standby and spokesman Matt Sun earlier told AAP: “if they need a hand, they pick up the phone, just the same way that when we needed help in October we picked up the phone,” Sun said.At least one NSW aircrane has already been tasked to assist Victorian firefighters. 3.14am GMT A cool change is going through Melbourne at the moment which has seen temperatures drop dramatically, but winds remain strong and have changed direction, gusting up to 60 to 80 kmph.The change is expected to reach Gippsland around 4pm this afternoon, and the east of the state at about 7pm.“The situation is changing by the minute,” Tony Bearzatto from Victoria’s CFA told Guardian Australia a short time ago.“With the wind change going through, creating very hot and blustery conditions which - even though the temperature is dropping - is increasing the erratic fire behaviour. We’re getting numerous new fires popping up all the time,” he said.“We’ve still go a long battle ahead of us and people need to remain alert.” 2.46am GMT NSW RFS (@NSWRFS)One of the NSW Air Cranes based at Albury is being flown to Vic to help with #vicfires #nswrfs #nswfires @CFA_UpdatesFebruary 9, 2014 2.45am GMT A ninth emergency warning has been issued in Victoria for Clarkesfield and Riddells Creek.Residents have been told to take shelter as it is too late to leave. Spotfires and ember attacks are occurring ahead of the fire. 2.41am GMT A total fire ban is in place for Victoria, Tasmania, northern and central regions of South Australia, and southern and central regions of NSW. 2.41am GMT In South Australia’s Flinders Ranges firefighters have been working to control an emergency-level grass fire for the 26th consecutive day. The Bangor fire poses a danger to lives and homes near Beetaloo and Wirrabara, the Country Fire Service (CFS) has warned.“There was a report in the early hours of the morning of a quite substantial flare-up deep in the firegrounds where we could not get crews in,” Brenton Eden from the CFS told ABC News on Sunday.He said it may have been caused by a haystack or building going up in flames but they would not know for sure until fire crews could get into the area.“To be perfectly honest the fire behaviour yesterday was as bad as we have seen in the last 25 days,” Eden said.“History would show that if it’s taken us that long to bring this fire under control it will be a considerable time before we can again bring it under control.” 2.39am GMT Homes lost in Victorian firesFirefighters say there is “no reprieve in sight” as the most dangerous fire threat since 2009’s Black Saturday threaten lives and homes.ABC reports homes have been lost to fire as eight emergency warnings are issued across Victoria. Footage shot from the air shows several homes alight, but the exact location has not been confirmed.Residents in some areas have been told it is too late to leave and they need to seek protection inside as blazes burn towards towns.Residents in Bete Bolong, Bete Bolong North, Youngs Creek and the outlying areas of Jarrahmond are “strongly recommended” to evacuate to the Orbost Relief Centre at Orbost Secondary College, Arnold Street, Orbost. Fires are expected to impact the area in the next two hours.Emergency warnings have been issued for the following areas: Sunbury, The Gap, Clarkefield, GoonawarraWarrandyteAlberton West, Hiawatha, Staceys Bridge, Jack River, MadalyaBellbird Creek, Cabbage Tree Creek, Club Terrace, Combienbar, MurrungowarMicklehamBuchan South, Buchan, Sunny PointRokebyGoongerahWatch and Act advisories have been issued for another 12 areas.