As a young man, dissatisfied with the way my life was heading, I remember reading a series on careers which were printed on the back of Weetabix packets. One was on forestry. I followed it up, joined the Forestry Commission, trained at its school in north Wales. After graduating I joined VSO and was sent to Montserrat in the West Indies. There I met and married my wife; 51 years later I have two children, three grandchildren and am still happily married. I remain a fan of, and am grateful to, Weetabix, which did indeed change my life (Letters, 24 January). David MooreSomerton, Somerset• In a country where the metric system has been taught in our schools for decades, how can the height of Everest have been reduced “by between a few millimetres and an inch” (Everest: not quite the challenge it used to be?, 25 January). Is this some form of Brexit compromise?Jim GillingsWilton, SalisburyArsenal’s Arsène Wenger charged with misconduct over behaviour against Burnley • Your report about Arsène Wenger’s misconduct charge (Sport, 23 January) refers to him as “the Frenchman” in the second paragraph. What relevance can that have to the report? Why not simply say “the manager” to make a change from using his name frequently?Linda GreshamBirmingham• I grew in Chelsea in the 50s and 60s and it was of course just “Kings Road”, as it still is to my family. Only people from elsewhere would add “the” to distinguish it from others (Letters, 25 January).Penelope SkinnerEast Molesey, Surrey• A friend who lived on Strand Road was haughtily told when being interviewed for a job in London that it was called the Strand. He lived on Strand Road, Preston.Jo HardingClitheroe, Lancashire• The head of the Government Statistical Service says the range of data available is expanding at a rapid rate (Letters, 24 January). At what rate precisely, please?Steve SimmonsBlackwater, Hampshire• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com•  Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters