Established just six years ago, Sydney Fringe Comedy – the comedic branch of Sydney Fringe – already has something of a reputation as a star-maker, hosting the first festival appearances of Daily Show correspondent Ronny Chieng and award-winners Corey White and Sam Campbell.It’s also an ideal size; big enough to attract genuine big names and A-listers looking to polish upcoming festival shows but small enough for wallet-friendly ticket prices and a smattering of left-field works.With more than 100 shows over the month-long schedule, we asked a few of our festival picks for their own program highlights.Our pick: Jennifer Wong – Feel the Fear and Fear it Anyway      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘A low-key delight’: Jennifer Wong. Photograph: Sydney Fringe 2016In an age when so many comedians yearn to emulate the zeitgeist-grabbing zeal of Amy Schumer or the timeless edginess of Bill Hicks, Jennifer Wong has seemingly drawn inspiration from a somewhat less cool source: dad joke punster Tim Vine. Dealing in the kind of unfashionable but undeniably funny wordplay that elicits roughly equal amounts of grudging laughter and knowing groans, the super likable star of ABC’s Bookish is a low-key delight. She offers more than a rapid fire one-liner fest though, with an unusually gentle and thoughtful take on life as an introvert; perhaps Sydney’s most polite comedian, she’s also one of its funniest. • Jennifer Wong’s show runs 30-31 August Jennifer’s pick: Jen Carnovale“I went to see Jen Carnovale’s Sydney Comedy festival show and laughed like a loon. Her accents and voices are spot on and her weary take on life is oddly comforting. I love her twisted observations and ear for dialogue. (I am also jealous that alphabetically she is always before me in comedy festival guides.) If you want to sit in a dark room and laugh like a loon, go see Jen.”• Jen Carnovale’s show runs 21, 23 September Our pick: Bart Freebairn – Fancy Romance Fringe Show      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Poignancy sitting comfortably alongside pure silliness’: Bart Freebairn. Photograph: Todd Hunter McgawDescriptors like “whimsical” and “quirky” can send hardened comedy fans running but Melbournian Freebairn’s festival shows are exhibit A in demonstrating how skilfully applied touches of the strange and surreal can be a valuable part of a comedian’s palette. With moments of disarming insight and poignancy sitting comfortably alongside pure silliness, Freebairn pulls off a tonal balance rarely seen outside Portlandia: he is forever amused by those around him but manages to skewer their foibles with charm and uncanny accuracy, and without a trace of mean-spiritedness. • Bart Freebairn’s show runs 7, 9, 11 September Bart’s pick: Future Classics (Featuring Luke Heggie, Katie Burch and Daniel Townes)  Bart Freebairn: “Luke Heggie is such a wordsmith, on top of having a great point of view, and he’s got a lovely way [with] observations ... He lived a very full life before doing stand-up and I’d say that gives him a very different perspective. “Katie’s amazing for someone who is relatively new to the scene; her joke structure, her economy of words and her persona is really well-developed. I see her as being one of the next big things. “I’ve known Townesy for ages and he’s such a great comedian; the simplistic elements of his jokes are so artful. He has so many short, sweet, delightful jokes and some great long-form stuff as well. He’s a really underrated established comedian. “All [three] are very much who they are, they are all very unique. None of them are particularly eager to please or too worried about how likable they seem – they’re just likable.” • Future Classics runs 6, 8, 10 SeptemberOur pick: Rhys Nicholson – Rhys Nicholson and Cameron Duggan Try Their New Jokes       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Elegantly assembled arsenal’: Rhys Nicholson. Photograph: Sydney Fringe 2016With his shock of flame red hair, self-made bowties and penchant for crushed velvet suits and glittery nailpolish, Nicholson is certainly one of the country’s most dapper stand-ups. But the carefully manicured and almost foppish image belies a comic assassin forever willing to get down and dirty, with acid-laced filth and withering putdowns very much part of his elegantly assembled arsenal.Like many of the best comic performers, Nicholson comes across as a curious mix of imperiousness and insecurity – something you’ll ponder as you reel from the relentless machine-gun pace of his show. • Rhys’ show with Cameron Duggan runs 27-30 September Rhys’s pick: Aaron ChenRhys Nicholson: “Looking over the listings of this year’s Fringe Comedy I’ve realised just how many of my favourite people are doing shows. It’s making me feel both excited and threatened.“I would like to recommend the comedian who threatens me the most. Aaron Chen is doing a work in progress show called My Trial Show is Better than Your Actual Show. He is easily one of the funniest comics in Sydney and he’s about five years old. How dare he! If I haven’t hired someone to break his legs by then, you should go to his show.” • Aaron Chen’s show runs 20-24 SeptemberOur pick: Rose Callaghan – Attention Deficit ... Ooh, A Pony!!      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Rousing and bracingly honest’: Rose Callaghan. Photograph: Kristoffer PaulsenEven by the more relaxed and intimate standards of podcasting, Rose Callaghan’s Swipe Night (which she co-hosts with fellow Melbournian Kirsten Law) stands as an unusually candid look at sex and dating in the Tinder/Grindr age. She brings much of that autobiographical fearlessness and a rowdy, late-night-conversation-with-your-mates vibe to her stand-up. A tough-minded comic but unafraid of turning her rifle sights on herself and her own grudging reluctance to join the adult world, she offers a rousing and bracingly honest brand of topical humour. • Rose Callaghan’s show runs 27, 29 SeptemberRose’s pick: Jonathan SchusterJonathan Schuster is extremely funny and a very talented storyteller. I would urge anyone to see his show, which is based on the stories of the apartment in St Kilda, Melbourne, he lived in for years (It’s basically The Secret Life of Us, the stand-up show. Maybe). He is very warm on-stage and comes across as very trustworthy – the sort of guy who gets along really well with mums, despite the fact he has not cried in several years. I have accused him of being a sociopath in the past but now I think he’s just a really good comedian. He has a TV show coming out soon on the ABC (Fancy Boy), so go and see him while the tickets are still cheap. His show is called Earth Choice and it’s on at the Factory Theatre just before mine. • Jonathan Schuster’s show runs 27-30 SeptemberOur pick: Michael Hing – You Just Make It All Up On The Night, Right?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Intelligent and fiercely funny’: Michael Hing. Photograph: Good GameExpertly blurring the lines between the personal and political, Michael Hing’s work ranges from self-lacerating autobiographical narrative (his Bildungsroman at 28 was a cruelly underrated gem of the genre) to intelligent and fiercely funny explorations of racial profiling and sociopolitical inequity. If that all sounds a bit heavy, consider that one of his best recent bits recounted his soul-destroying attempt to be crowned Cleo’s bachelor of the year. This new offering sees him demonstrating yet another string in his considerable bow, returning to his roots in improvised theatre with a show which will be built entirely from suggestions that audience members write on cards. This kind of comic risk-taking, his bio sombrely notes, “is the only way he can feel anymore”. • Michael Hing’s show runs 22, 24 and 25 SeptemberMichael’s pick: Hannah & Eliza Are Doing a Fringe Show (& It’s a Musical)Michael Hing: “Hannah and Eliza Reilly have been around the Sydney comedy scene for years, first on FBi Radio and then through their Yarramadoon shows at Giant Dwarf theatre. People would also know Hannah from her triple j show, or her work with The Chaser. “I’m keen to see this show that is (apparently) a musical (of sorts). They have this very funny ability to commit wholeheartedly to a bit with real joy before quickly turning towards some very full-on darkness. It’s great. Get along and watch their show before they’re super famous and assholes know about them.” • Hannah and Eliza Reilly’s show runs 2 and 3 September at Giant Dwarf Theatre• Sydney Fringe Comedy runs 30 August-30 September, mostly at the Factory Theatre, Newtown; Sydney Fringe runs 1-30 September