Last weekend I emerged from my house and stood, squinting into the February sun. I felt a strange buzzing around my head, as if my skull was charged with static and at any moment I might experience an electric shock. I rolled my shoulders back and inhaled deeply. My lungs filled with the cold air. The sky was a sharp winter blue and above me, the contrails of transatlantic flights drew chalk marks through the stratosphere. There was something about the sun, the sky, the air – my mind began to clear.I’d been awake for several hours, but I realised, I did not really feel awake. After days of grey and winter gloom, I often feel my mind becomes foggy. Sometimes I feel lethargic. At other times I feel anxious. It’s at times like these that I do anything to get out of the house: swimming, shopping, a trip to a museum, an oversized mug of tea at a café, the library, or, if the weather permits, a walk. Of course there is a colloquialism for that claustrophobic feeling which many of us experience in winter: cabin fever.February is an odd month. Even with spring in sight, we’re still stuck in the long dark tunnel of winter. It’s still not yet time to sow. The ground is still wet and cold. It’s over the winter months that many people experience cabin fever – that irritable restless feeling which comes from being stuck inside for too long. But gardeners, with our connection to the outdoors and love of wildlife, seem to suffer more than most. We need space and light and activity; humans don’t thrive in a confined environment. Take the Inuit, for example. There is a condition known as piblokto, or Arctic hysteria, where Inuit women scream, act bizarrely and sometimes remove clothing. I know that, with my temperament, living in subzero temperatures in total darkness would send me mad within a season. I’d probably dress up as a baby seal and offer myself to the nearest polar bear.And it’s not just the Inuit who dislike isolation and long winters. Settlers on the American plains often suffered from a condition known as prairie madness. Farming families faced a harsh life trying to subsist in the vast wilderness of the American west. Prairie madness was a kind of breakdown caused the strains of the harsh living conditions. While isolation was its primary cause, the long cold winters are cited as adding to the farmers’ depressed state. Dorothy Scarborough wrote a fictional novel based on her life on the American plans and its hardships – the title of the novel, The Wind (1925), is a good indication about how important the climate is to the story.There’s only one cure for cabin fever – get outside. It sounds relatively simple. The cure to the problem is, literally, right outside your front door. However, if you’re like me, you leave for work in the darkness and arrive home in the darkness. Up here in Scotland, where I live, the nights don’t properly lengthen out until March. I do love my garden, but I draw the line at gardening by headlamp.So, how can the gardener beat cabin fever in the winter months? What can we do until spring arrives? Here’s a few things to keep you distracted. Look at photos of your garden in summerResearch has suggested that people who look at photos and actively reminisce about their holidays, can extend that holiday feeling “glow”. If it can work for holidays, why not the garden? I take lots of pictures throughout spring and summer to chart the progress of my garden. It often helps to have photos when you’re planning borders for the next year. In winter, I often revisit these photos just to remind me that the northern hemisphere will, eventually, tilt back toward the sun.Draw garden designsAdmittedly, my garden designs fall well short of a Chelsea gold medal. However, I do love to break out a pack of coloured pencils and a blank sheet of A4. With a good plant encyclopaedia in hand, winter is the perfect time to rework border schemes and develop plant lists for purchase in spring. This year, I’ll be taking a leaf out of Alys Fowler’s book The Edible Garden – I’m going to try to work more vegetables into my flower borders. I love growing veg and I’m running out of room. Her take on a modern potager is romantic and beautiful. Why can’t I have my garden and eat it too?Sharpen toolsI have a short attention span. This means that, when I’m gardening, I often wander off in the middle of one task to begin another. All the jobs in my garden get taken care of, just not always in the correct order. This means I can be guilty of leaving a tool on top of a fence post overnight, or losing a trowel in a bucket of compost. Now is the time to line up your tools and get out the metal file, sandpaper, and general-purpose oil. Rub off any rust on tools with a wire brush. Take care with sharpening blades and secateurs; anything extensively rusted should be replaced. Try a bit of linseed oil on wooden handles – it helps to protect and nourish the wood. Watch gardening showsOf course, if all else fails, turn on Monty Don. He is back with a new season of Big Dreams, Small Spaces. Monty’s calm voice is a soothing balm in a confused and increasing chaotic world. Turn off Trump – tune in to Mr Don. If you do, everything will make more sense.