There's a power cut on Boxing Day. Do you … Not even notice because you've got the whole house lit by candles already ​  Spend hours getting wound up on the phone trying to get an electrician Your perfect afternoon would comprise: Watching Planet Earth while hiding behind your mermaid blanket  A brisk walk through the forest, drinking in nature Meatballs are Based on a passed-down recipe from your Nordic great grandmother and you have had the organic reindeer meat on order since July  The bribe you use to get your significant other to brave Ikea with you Blake is: A great name  A surname Holes in your jeans are: There on purpose and MASSIVE. More rip, less jean is your Jenner-inspired mantra  An excuse to get crafty. That embroidery basket won't use itself Autumn is: A hashtag!  A season! The Cardigans are: 90s one-hit wonders. Lovefool was on that mixtape given to you by an ex who is now a 3D street artist  A subversive way to retroactively wear a winter classic A tin of Quality Street is: Where you'll find the sewing kit  Your favourite thing about Christmas Your Boxing Day walk outfit: Merino wool leggings (great for skiing), ancient black Hunter wellies, a fisherman’s sweater and a cashmere blanket you keep in the car boot  Skinny jeans tucked into the new Uggs you asked Santa for, faux fur gilet artfully layered over cashmere tunic from the Boden sale Your local bar is: Actually spelled Barre and where you are most Sunday mornings  Round the corner Butter is: Dairy  A good fat in, like, moderation and in, like, bullet coffee Lean ... Yung?  In! S/o the sisterhood! You hate: Your friends, fat arms, bread and the patriarchy  Private healthcare, corruption, man-made fibres and the patriarchy On Christmas Eve, your last minute errands will be: Foraging the fresh ivy you like to tie your artisan linen table napkins with and delivering mason jars of homemade sloe gin as gifts to all of your neighbours  Waitrose in six mins – lots of the spenny Heston stuff for a festive treat You got…Challenge your friendsSubmit answers