Recently, I’ve heard from two theatre companies who have been around for a few years and enjoyed some success – including touring abroad – but are on the brink of calling it a day. In both cases the increasing difficulty of securing funding via Grants for the Arts and the way venues have shifted risk away from themselves and on to the artists were cited as major reasons.In the past, graduate companies kept body and soul together on breadcrumbs for maybe eight to 10 years, always with the hope that if you were good enough you would eventually secure more regular funding. That expectation now seems to have gone. Most of those who have graduated in recent years know that it is unlikely that they will ever become National Portfolio Organisations (NPOs).Look before you leap into theatre's mainstream This wouldn’t necessarily be catastrophic if there was enough money in the Grants for the Arts pot to allow companies to keep on applying with a reasonable expectation that, while they may not be successful with every project, if their work was proven and the proposed project was exciting enough, they had a significant chance of securing funding at some point. But increasingly companies say it feels like a lottery, which means it is becoming impossible to make work and to get it programmed. In Scotland, too, there is similar pressure on arts funding via Creative Scotland.When I spoke to Scottish theatre-maker Rob Drummond earlier this year, he highlighted the absurdity of a situation in which people got money to research and develop a production and yet even when they could demonstrate that the R&D was a good investment, they couldn’t secure further funds to bring the show into full production. It means artists end up continuously developing new shows rather than bringing a tried and tested idea to full production. That’s not good for artists or for audiences.Something similar goes on all across the UK with venues and companies that hand out seed commissions but then don’t develop the work further. Of course not every good idea will turn out to be a good show but some get lost because there is no further money available. Venues or flagship companies do it because because it ticks all the boxes and it costs them far less than bringing projects to full production. But it keeps theatre-makers in a constant state of development without any hope of making work of increasing ambition. It stops artists developing the high quality touring work that is so desperately needed.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rob Drummond, centre, in his Edinburgh festival show In Fidelity. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianSpeaking at the Peter Brook awards, where the Empty Space award went to the New Diorama in London, for its outstanding work supporting new companies, the RSC’s deputy artistic director, Erica Whyman, took issue with the idea that there is some kind of ladder that takes companies from studio spaces to the main house. She’s right: not every company and every artist has ambitions to play the Olivier and we need to value work that is made on the smaller scale. One of the winners at this year’s Peter Brook awards was Gecko, a terrific company who have made some memorable shows. For all their talent, they didn’t spring fully formed. It took time to become established and scale up ambition, and it took 11 years before they were recognised in the Arts Council’s 2012-15 round of funding. A couple of years before securing that funding, members of the company talked to me openly about the serious doubts they had about being able to continue as they tried to develop work and sustain family lives. If they hadn’t got NPO funding when they did, perhaps they would have stopped, too.Being an NPO in the current climate is by no means easy, but at least it gives you the chance to plan. That’s impossible if you are having to constantly apply either to Creative Scotland lottery funding or Grants for the Arts. Even companies that enjoy some early success often have to make a significant body of work before they become really good at what they do, which takes time and money. That’s increasingly hard to sustain, and, as more of them throw in the towel, the question is how many potential Geckos or Third Angels or Complicites might we be losing along the way.There have always been dropouts, but in the past they tended to happen within the first few years of setting up a company, when people decided making theatre wasn’t for them or opportunities took them in different directions. Now what might once have been seen as established companies are calling it a day. It makes me wonder whether 10 years from now we will be missing an entire layer of experienced and mature companies. It’s not an encouraging prospect because in our theatre culture we need maturing and mid-career artists every bit as much as we need the acclaimed veterans and the young whippersnappers bursting with new ideas and enthusiasm. 