Malcolm Turnbull has promised a pragmatic, growth-focused government, unafraid to “chuck out” policies that are not working and make compromises to get laws through the Senate, including further “fairness” changes to proposed cuts to low-income family benefits.'One of the interesting things about being PM is people take more notice of you' Contrary to the Abbott government’s insistence that spending cuts were the primary way to reduce the budget deficit, the new prime minister suggested a more gradual approach, by preventing increases in government spending while changing tax and innovation policy to speed up Australia’s sluggish economic growth.“Depending on the circumstances, it may not be the quickest way to get back to surplus but an important contributor to getting back to budget balance is to constrain expenditure growth as fairly as you can, and ... work to make sure the economy grows at a faster rate,” he said in an interview with Guardian Australia.Turnbull insisted the federal government had to be prepared to use the “big levers” it had to encourage growth, including infrastructure spending, innovation policy and taxation, with “the aim … to make sure everything you are doing is calculated to get to that goal [of higher growth].”“If something isn’t working as well as you want, chuck it out. I’m not afraid of people saying, it’s a backdown, or a backflip, an agile government is prepared to abandon policies that don’t work.”Turnbull said the revised family tax benefit cuts unveiled this week – now saving $4.8bn over four years rather than $8.5bn envisaged under the stalled Abbott government version – had been designed to be fairer, and could be changed again in Senate negotiations. I am certainly assuming the next election will be in September or October 2016Malcolm Turnbull “We should never cease trying to make changes in the social welfare area fairer. Fairer is what is it all about. Fairness has got to be the key priority,” he said, pointing out that the social services minister, Christian Porter, had offered to discuss further changes this week. He suggested tax concessions for the wealthy had to be pared back as well as government spending programs primarily benefiting the lower paid. But in remarks that may alarm state premiers, he indicated they had primary responsibility for making up a $50bn shortfall in funding for hospitals, after the first Abbott budget removed that amount from the federal budget’s forward projections. Turnbull brings in Howard hires and new talent but cabinet the first port of call Asked whether the tax negotiations with the states – including increasing or broadening the goods and services tax – had to find a way to pay for state-run hospitals, Turnbull said it was “easy for the states to say just jack up the GST … well, they’ve got considerable ability with their own tax bases”.“What I’m saying is, states have got to address the productivity of their own services. Are they getting value for their own expenditure in health and education and so forth? How are they managing their own tax bases. It’s not good enough for a state government to say – and I’m not saying that they are – various premiers have shown they are looking at their own circumstances, but a state government can’t say ‘nothing to see here, give us more money.’“I think it’s a national problem. I mean … you can’t sit here in Canberra and say we are not going to help, we’ve got nothing to do with issues in public hospitals. The federation is a work of collaboration. But that means both sides have got to do some heavy lifting,” he said. [Russia] may live to regret this intervention, but one way or another, the only solution is a political oneMalcolm Turnbull on Syria In the wide-ranging interview, Turnbull: Said he was assuming the parliament would run full term. “I am certainly assuming the next election will be in September or October 2016.” Argued a long-standing offer by New Zealand to resettle 150 refugees a year from Australia’s offshore detention centres would create an incentive for people smugglers to resume business and would not be accepted. “The challenge … with all of this as you know, is to ensure that we don’t give the people smugglers incentive to get back into business.” Said the government was “not going to make any changes at the present time” to oversight arrangements for the detention centres despite calls from the Human Rights Commission and refugee advocates.Signalled Australia might need to do more than its current the pledge to reduce greenhouse emissions by between 26% and 28% by 2030, and confirmed he intended to be at the UN climate talks in Paris in December.Insisted no changes would be made to the Coalition’s Direct Action climate policy before a review scheduled for 2017, despite deep industry concerns about the uncertainty created by the fact that the so-called “safeguard mechanism” will have to be changed to achieve the government’s promised greenhouse gas reductions.Turnbull, communications minister in the Abbott government, said the government would revisit media reform if it could secure parliamentary agreement to amend the “reach” rule that currently prevents Nine Entertainment, Seven West Media and the Ten Network from owning their regional affiliates. He suggest reform could come in two tranches. House of Cards? I prefer Borgen – says Turnbull, the man who toppled a PM “The reach rule in particular is certainly a matter of great concern to regional broadcasters as you know. The two out of three rule [which regulates media ownership] is of concern to some players but the reach rule is the one of greatest urgency by people in the industry.”Putin may live to regret intervention in Syria, warns Malcolm Turnbull On Syrian conflict, Turnbull said the government’s policy remain “unchanged.” He said there was no military solution to the conflict in the Middle East, only a political one. Turnbull said the Russian president, Vladimir Putin may come to regret his country’s recent intervention in the civil war.“I assume they wanted to keep their friend, Mr Assad, they wanted to keep him in the game, prevent him from being knocked out of the ring, and so they provided support to do that, and they are now getting caught up in the situation, and they could get caught up very deeply. They may live to regret this intervention, but one way or another, the only solution is a political one.” 