The world is crumbling away. Vast oceans are swallowing the land and giant forest fires and smoke are suffocating the earth. But the biggest threat of all is the red-eye, a disease which has sadly killed off all the animals except a wolf, a flock of pigeons, an eagle, the General (a cockroach), a whale, Dagger (a dog), a stag and, most importantly, a mouse. The mouse that holds the key to the future, the answer to bringing back the lost animals: the Iris. But this little mouse is lost. He is nowhere to be found. Is there hope for the world?There is hope. The protagonists, Kester Jaynes and his best friends Aida and Polly are determined to save the world. After all, why would Kester give up after leading the last of the animals to safety when he saved Premium (the last city in the world) from mass destruction? But this is different – one mistake, one false move could mean losing his capital city, losing everything he ever knew.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Are there other issues? Yes there are. The last blue whale has brought vital and tragic news from across the ocean. A mysterious steel dome has risen from the Four Towers and Kester’s arch nemesis Selwyn Stone has sinister plans. It looks like this is bigger than Kester and his friends thought and time is running out very fast! Too fast.Once Kester, Polly and Aida make a brave decision to travel across the world’s ocean, in desperate hope of preventing the end of everything, they discover the truth behind the whale’s news and the whereabouts of the mouse, they realise the journey to save the earth has just begun.The Wild Beyond is the final thrilling instalment of the Last Wild Trilogy by Piers Torday. It is is the winner for the Guardian’s Children’s Fiction Prize and certainly deserves to win awards and reader’s hearts.This is a fantastic book. It is adventurous and Piers Torday creates very vivid and memorable characters. I absolutely loved this book, it was almost impossible to not turn the page and read on! How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? I would highly recommend this book to anyone who has a passion for adventure and action. If you do not tend to like action still consider it because you never know what surprises a good book holds!Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!