My father, Bill, was very, very shy, but he was divine. And very clever: he got a first in two years at Cambridge University and then became the youngest brigadier in the army, which made me burst with pride. He and I used to play Beethoven piano duets.After the war, he ran English Electric and then became managing director of an engineering firm in Bradford. One day, the board of directors asked him to tell the chairman he was too old and ought to step down. When he plucked up the courage to do so, the old man flipped his lid, called in the other directors and said, “Bill’s tried to throw me out.” Not one of them spoke up for Daddy. He was fired by lunchtime, which meant we lost our beautiful house. So shocking! So perfidious!My mother, Elaine, was very beautiful. When we lived in Camberley, Surrey she and I would walk along the railway line and she would teach me the names of the wild flowers. She read voraciously and always thought it was much more important to finish her novel than do the washing-up. She taught me to read when I was four.Mummy’s ashes are buried in the garden. The racehorse trainer Charlie Brooks came to lunch one day. After a while, my husband, Leo, went outside to see if Charlie’s chauffeur was all right. He found him standing in front of Mummy’s grave. Her name and dates, 1906-1997, were carved into the headstone, along with the words of her family crest, “Hope Conquers All”, above a rabbit running over some grass. The chauffeur looked at Leo. “I must say, Sir,” he said. “That was a very good innings. For a rabbit.”I had an older brother, Tim, incredibly glamorous. The tragedy of my childhood was him going off to prep school. He was terribly funny. When I got an OBE in 2004 for “services to literature”, he congratulated me, but then could not resist adding: “Darling Jilly. For literature?” and howled with laughter.I first met Leo at a children’s party when I was seven and he was 10. There was a girl called Louisa rabbiting on about how much land her father owned so Leo threw a strawberry jelly at her. It hit her smack in the kisser. He was a very good games player.He and I met again after his first marriage had failed and he was sharing a flat with a mutual friend who invited me round for dinner. That was that. He proposed to me on our second date and we were together for 52 years until he died in 2013.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jilly Cooper with her husband, Leo, in 1991. Photograph: John Walters/Daily Mail/RexAfter an ectopic pregnancy, it became clear I was going to be unable to have babies myself. I was in a state of shock. I felt I’d let Leo down. But we were encouraged to adopt. I was 31 when we adopted Felix, and Emily came into our lives three years later. I love them both without qualification.It is also fair to say that my books have been my babies and an absolute blessing now that I’m on my own. The worst problem for geriatrics is being lonely and having nothing to do. But I’ve got all my characters teeming through my head. I’m writing a new book at the moment set in the world of football and called Tackle!I adore my grandchildren – Felix has two daughters, Emily has three sons – and I can communicate better with them now that they aren’t babies. I’m like my mother. She used to say, “I love my own babies, darling, but I’m not wild about anybody else’s.”I don’t know if I’ll find another man to love and I’m not sure I really want to. Anyway, Bluebell, my beloved greyhound, wouldn’t share my bed with anyone else.• Mount! by Jilly Cooper is published by Corgi, £7.99.