The handwriting and the spelling of the most famous name in literature are uncertain, but the autographs are priceless: four of only six known genuine signatures of William Shakespeare have gone on display in an exhibition hosted by King’s College London, marking the 400th anniversary of the playwright’s death. On the pages carrying his very last signatures, written when he updated his will a few weeks before his death in April 1616, the surname has vanished completely from the tattered edge of one of the three pages, the second page has a very wobbly version, and only the final page is unmistakably signed “By me William Shakespeare”.By the 19th century, the will, leaving money for his actor friends to buy mourning rings to remember him by, and the notorious bequest to “my wief my second best bed with the furniture”, was so famous that tourists paid the hefty fee of a shilling to see it at Somerset House, then the home of the records of births, marriages and deaths. It has now returned, with other precious documents relating to Shakespeare’s life and work, from the present home of the National Archives at Kew.The earliest signature on display reads William Shak... and trails off into a scribble, as if Shakespeare himself hadn’t quite decided how to spell his own name. The confusion was general: the clerk who transcribed the will spelled his client Shackspeare. The will made careful provision for the grandsons he assumed would become his heirs, after the death of his only son, Hamnett, left his daughters Judith and Susanna to inherit. But the direct line proved as faltering as the signature – three grandsons were born after his death; one died as a baby and the others as childless young men.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   William Shakespeare’s will is on display alongside other unique documents that witness his life. Photograph: Adrian Brooks/ImagewiseThe most entertaining of the documents – chosen with difficulty, according to curator Katy Mair, from more than 100 relating to his life in the archives – is the bitter complaint in 1601 from their former landlord that the actor manager Richard Burbage, and members of his company believed to include Shakespeare, had stolen his theatre after a dispute about the lease. They are accused of dismantling the theatre, shipping it across the river and rebuilding it on their own site on the South Bank, “in very ryotous, outrageious and forcyble manner”, while armed “with divers and and manye unlawfull and offence weapons as ... swordes, daggers, billes, axes and such like”.The act of piracy meant that Burbage brought him in as a shareholder in the new theatre, Prof Gordon McMullan, coordinator of the Shakespeare 400 festival, said. “It was a marvellous break for Shakespeare, setting him on the path to solid prosperity, instead of the hand-to-mouth existence of a jobbing playwright who might have ended in a debtor’s gaol.”He hopes the exhibition will show Shakespeare as a shrewd man of affairs, closely involved in the everyday life of his adopted city of London, rather than a solitary genius receiving divine inspiration in an attic. But the mystique of the man remains, he admitted. “You can argue all you like against the romantic concept – but you can’t get away from the fact that he wrote beautifully.”• By me William Shakespeare, at Inigo Rooms, Somerset House East Wing, King’s College London, until May 29 2016, closed Mondays