The ubiquitous chopped salad of the Middle East – as Yotam Ottolenghi and Sami Tamimi write in their book Jerusalem, there’s no escaping it: “It’s a local affliction, quite seriously.” Eaten at almost every meal, fattoush, with its cool cucumber and crunchy radish, feels more like a “proper salad” than the equally famous tabbouleh, according to Sabrina Ghayour. It also happens to be an excellent way of using up stale pitta – if, indeed, you happen to have any knocking around after last week. Infinitely adaptable and wonderfully refreshing, fattoush is a useful little number to have in your culinary armoury.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Yotam Ottolenghi and Sami Tamimi’s fattoush. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianThe lettuce dilemmaMost of the recipes I try contain lettuce in varying quantities, either little gem, or the larger version, cos – but the recipe in Jerusalem (passed down from Tamimi’s mum) omits it, as does Claudia Roden. Fattoush is, I believe, rather a moveable feast – Anissa Helou writes in her book Lebanese Cuisine that “you can make it with whatever salad ingredients you have available as long as you use sumac” (and, presumably, bread).In that spirit, I’ll admit I find lettuce adds crunch, but little else – it’s hard not to pick through it to get to the good stuff, making it feel as if it’s there to add bulk, rather than flavour. But, with Ghayour’s Persiana, the restaurant chain Comptoir Libanais’ eponymous book, Jane Baxter and John Vincent’s recently published Leon Happy Salads and the Honey & Co cookbook all ranged against me, leaving it out entirely makes me nervous. I seek reassurance online, and Helou tells me her mother also made it without, as did she for a long time, which is all I need in the way of validation. Anyone who objects to a lettuce-free fattoush on principle should take it up with Roden or Helou. If you’d simply prefer a bigger salad, however, feel free to add two heads of little gem, chopped into wide strips.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sabrina Ghayour’s fattoush. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianThe restI’m keener on ingredients that add more in the way of texture and flavour, with cucumber falling firmly into the first camp (unless you thinly slice it and salt it for an hour, as Roden’s recipe in Jane Grigson’s Vegetable Book suggests, when it tastes pretty good, but feels distinctly limp). Try, as Ottolenghi and Tamimi write, “to get small cucumbers for this … they are worlds apart from the large ones we normally get in most UK supermarkets” – less watery, and with more bite. If you can’t find them, then scoop out the seeds, as Baxter suggests.Radishes are also popular, although less ubiquitous; if you follow Ghayour in quartering rather than slicing them, they add a satisfying extra crunch, as well as a mild pepperiness (Is it me or have radishes become less peppery in the past 20 years?). They also look very pretty, as do Comptoir Libanais and Honey & Co’s pomegranate seeds, which should supply a lovely burst of sweetness – but pomegranates at this time of year tend to be disappointingly dry, so I wouldn’t bother.By the time the pomegranates are in season, tomatoes won’t be, and tomatoes are( in my opinion, at least) key here. I like the idea of using a variety of colours and sizes, chopped “two or three different ways … to give the salad some texture”, as Honey & Co recommends, but go with whatever looks best if you don’t have a big choice; cherry tomatoes are usually the safest bet, but everything should be decent in midsummer. There’s no need to peel them as Roden does but, if they seem watery, rather than solid, you might be advised to core them, as in Baxter’s recipe.Ghayour uses red and green peppers, which, of course, work brilliantly with the other ingredients, but I think have a tendency to overpower them – if you have some, put them in, but they’re by no means essential.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Honey & Co’s fattoush. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianOnions and garlicAll the recipes I try (with the exception of Honey & Co’s) use onion – mostly the spring variety, though Roden suggests a mild medium onion as a substitute, which, given most onions in this country tend to be eye-wateringly pungent, I wouldn’t recommend. Spring onions, finely chopped, offer a grassier, fresher kind of heat.If you’re a fan of strong flavours you might, like Ottolenghi, Tamimi and Roden, decide to add garlic to the salad itself – but, for a subtler kick, allow it to infuse the dressing. If you’d prefer a milder kick, take it out before serving, as Honey & Co does, or crush it right in for a bit more fire.ExtrasHoney & Co adds feta to its salad, which is delicious, and makes it feel more like a standalone dish, rather than part of a mezze selection; it’s not traditional, but it is very good.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jane Baxter’s fattoush. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianThe breadFattoush is not fattoush without bread – that’s the whole point. Any kind of Middle Eastern flatbread will do (or, in fact, most kinds of flatbread); the important thing is it must be crisp. There are various ways to achieve this, from Baxter’s frying to Honey & Co’s grilling, but the most reliable, if you can bear to turn the oven on, is to bake it, which gives a dryer, crunchier result; the dressing should supply all the oil the dish needs. If it’s too hot for the oven, toast the pitta as Roden does. Some recipes season it with sumac, but as this intensely lemony spice is a key ingredient in the salad itself, the bread is, I think, better left plain as a contrast.Roden moistens the pitta with lemon juice, and Ottolenghi and Tamimi add the dressing and salad on top, giving a soggier, more panzanella-like result. My testers overwhelmingly prefer the pieces added at the last minute, so they stay crisp for as long as possible.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Comptoir Libanais’s fattoush. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianThe herbsLike tabbouleh, this is a dish that requires a generous hand with the herbs, as Helou reminds us. The usual suspects, parsley and mint, are the most popular choices, although Honey & Co go for the rather intriguing oregano, which I love, but which tastes dangerously uncanonical. Roden’s coriander is similarly daring – I think it works, but others aren’t convinced. In any case, parsley and mint just taste right; and if it ain’t broke … Some recipes also use dried mint, too, but its more aniseedy flavour spoils the fresh flavour of the other kind as far as most testers are concerned, with one likening it to their grandma’s mint sauce in a not entirely complimentary way.Summer purslane, a tangy succulent with fleshy leaves and something of the lamb’s lettuce about it, is commonly found in fattoush in its homelands, and is well worth adding for its lovely lemony flavour – if you can track some down at the farmers’ market, greengrocer, or Middle Eastern grocer, that is.Honey & Co also tosses in a couple of teaspoons of za’atar, a Middle Eastern spice mix that generally also contains dried oregano as well as thyme, marjoram and sesame seeds. Good, but not as refreshingly sour as the sumac I’m going to use.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Claudia Roden’s fattoush. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianThe dressingAt its simplest, fattoush is dressed with olive oil and lemon juice, à la Roden, but a little vinegar, whether cider or wine, gives a more interesting flavour, while Comptoir Libanais’s pomegranate molasses adds a sweet and sour note that I really like; it feels like an optional extra rather than an absolute must, but if you find my dressing too tart, add this to taste.Tamimi’s mother used a homemade yoghurt dressing that the pair believe was probably her own creation. “Sami can’t recall anyone else in the neighbourhood making it.” It is indeed “terribly comforting”, and both richer and more cooling than your average fattoush – it’s a dish for when you want something a little more substantial.You can add spice, too – Baxter suggests allspice and cinnamon, as well as the more usual sumac, and I’d also recommend the latter sprinkled over the top of the dish itself, as in Ghayour, Ottolenghi and Tamimi’s recipes, for a final acid hit. This is a dish that’s all about refreshment – so be bold with the flavours. It may not be designed for the British climate but, right now, for most of us at least, it’s perfect.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Felicity Cloake’s perfect fattoush. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianThe perfect fattoushServes 42 stale pitta or other flatbreads1 garlic cloveJuice of 1/2 lemon1/2 tbsp cider vinegar3 tbsp good olive oil, plus extra to grease1 tsp sumac, plus extra to sprinkle500g ripe mixed tomatoes3 small cucumbers or 1 large one2 spring onions25g flat-leaf parsley15g mint100g purslane (optional)100g radishesHeat the oven to 200C. Toss the pitta with a little olive oil, then bake for about 15 minutes until crisp. Allow to cool slightly, then break into shards.Meanwhile, crush the garlic clove and put in a jar with the lemon juice, vinegar, oil and sumac. Season and shake well then leave to infuse until the salad is finished.Meanwhile, cut the tomatoes into irregular chunks and the cucumber (deseeded if the large variety) into rough 1.5cm dice. Finely slice the spring onions and pick the leaves of the herbs and roughly chop. Pick the leaves of the purslane but leave whole. Combine in a large bowl.Toss the dressing with the salad, then, just before serving, cut the radishes into quarters and use to top the salad, along with the bread and a final flourish of sumac.Is fattoush the king of Middle Eastern salads, or are there fancier rivals to its crown? Is crisp lettuce a must? And what other lovely stuff do you make with stale bread?