We were surprised to read Caroline Lucas’s comments that we, as the Green party, are “backing” the Liberal Democrat candidate in the Richmond Park byelection (Lib Dems eye pro-EU voters in final Richmond byelection push, theguardian.com, 26 November). In fact, local Green parties have made no decision to endorse any other party’s candidate.As local Green party members, we support the idea of a “progressive alliance” in 2020 to kick out the Tories and change the voting system. But we don’t feel that simply endorsing a Lib Dem in Richmond Park has anything to do with the progressive alliance initiative. As the Lib Dem candidate said herself, there has been “no deliberate attempt to form an alliance”. Nor is there any sense in which the Lib Dems left to run their own campaign are “progressive”.Local Greens criticise Caroline Lucas over Richmond Park byelection We hope that voters in Richmond Park will remember the Lib Dems’ regressive role with the Tories in government: putting austerity into practice; enacting the bedroom tax; and raising university tuition fees after they promised to scrap them.And we hope it won’t be forgotten that the Lib Dems are ultimately responsible for the decision to expand Heathrow airport, having launched the Airports Commission in 2012 along with their coalition partners in government.Unfortunately, we have no progressive alliance and no Green party candidate in Richmond Park. Therefore, although not our first choice, we will be supporting Christian Wolmar, the Labour candidate, as the best option available. We encourage other local Green supporters to do the same.But we note that, just like Caroline’s support for the Lib Dem candidate, this is neither a progressive alliance, nor is it the Green party’s democratically approved policy.Ryan Coley Chair of Kingston Green partyClare Keogh Kingston and Surbiton 2015 parliamentary candidate, Green party regional council repKieron Merrett Kingston Green party member, Green party national executive memberHannah Smale Kingston Green party memberCharlie Redman Kingston Green party memberTariq Shabbeer Kingston Green party memberJohn Johnson Kingston Green party member• Seventy per cent of the people in the borough of Richmond, where I live, voted remain in the referendum. Now those who live in the Richmond Park constituency have a second chance to show how much they oppose Brexit and to make it abundantly clear to the government that if Britain is to leave the EU they want a soft Brexit.There is a clear choice between the two main candidates in the coming byelection.On one side is Zac Goldsmith, a prominent Brexiter whose voting record is massively Eurosceptic (who incidentally is being supported by Ukip), and on the other is Liberal Democrat Sarah Olney, who is campaigning to remain in the single market.We are living in uncharted times, shown by the fact that there is no Conservative candidate in this byelection. This is the moment for the people of Richmond Park to forget their normal voting preferences and make it very clear to the government that they still oppose Brexit.Greg DykeLondon• The single market should be an anathema to all Green party members but not to Caroline Lucas (Why I will vote against triggering article 50, theguardian.com, 27 November). The Green party should be aiming for as much local production for local consumption as possible, not for trekking goods across Europe in diesel-guzzling, air-polluting 44 ton lorries.Michael GoldGreen party candidate for Walthamstow 2015• The idea of a left alliance to “to oppose Brexit, hard-right populism and Tory hegemony” (Could a progressive alliance make a mark?, G2, 28 November) is a seductive prospect but it has at least two drawbacks. First, it is artificial in that Liberal and Labour philosophies are significantly different and it is a fraud on the electorate to fail to offer it the choice. Far better to have an electoral system that avoids the necessity for such an alliance.Second, for the Liberal Democrats to have a significant effect on the Brexit debate and the possibility of an eventual referendum on the outcome, requires them to win on their own, based on the Liberals’ consistent 60-year support of Britain in a united Europe. It is forgotten that at the 1970 election the Liberals had fewer votes and seats than now but recovered to poll almost 20% just four years later, built on five byelection victories.Just as it is wrong for Zac Goldsmith to pretend to be an independent when the Conservatives fail to put up a candidate against him in the byelection, so would be a similar tactic for the “progressive” parties to engineer an electoral alliance.Michael MeadowcroftLeeds• The catch in John Harris’s G2 piece lies in what constitutes a “party on the left”. While I feel that definition can be stretched to include the Greens under Caroline Lucas, Plaid Cymru under Leanne Wood and the SNP under Nicola Sturgeon, I struggle to accept the definition for the Lib Dems under Tim Farron. For the five years of the coalition, they consistently voted for draconian austerity measures targeted at society’s most vulnerable members which contributed to the alienation so ably chronicled in John Harris’s series “Anywhere but Westminster”. Their then leader, Nick Clegg, parroted the big Tory lie that the economic crisis was Labour’s fault. I might consider “teaming up” if Farron were to apologise for their role in enforcing austerity and promoting the big lie about the cause of the deficit. I’m not holding my breath.Nick SpencerEmeritus professor of child health, University of Warwick• As a one-time Labour councillor in rural Lincolnshire, non-Conservatives would often sidle up and suggest “we should work together”. Their proposals always reduced to “give me your block of votes”. It was never workable. I did not command a voting block, each elector makes up their own mind. The absence of a preferred party will not guarantee a vote for the remaining progressive candidate.The working-together notion is like asking Ferrari and Red Bull to withdraw from a Grand Prix so that Sauber has a chance to beat Mercedes.Michael HudsonLincoln• Wouldn’t it be nice if people voted for parties or people they want to win rather than using their votes to dish those they oppose?Using the vote that was won by brave people who valued democratic rights simply to attack people of an opposing point of view is about as negative as politics gets. Using a hard-won right as if it were some kind of cheap token in a game of chance diminishes the concept of democracy itself. Conviction politics is thus replaced by a particularly nasty political trick aimed at destroying a vote cast by a sincere fellow countryman; all this in order to bring about the elimination of a candidate whose supporters may be suspected of perhaps having enough support to elect such a person if everyone played fair and square.It is the kind of behaviour that merits a shrug of disgust. And when political activists urge such ugly tactics on their supporters they, too, are merely displaying their willingness to adopt gutter tactics, and their low cunning should be deplored, not encouraged.Monika MildeLondon • If we believe, as many do in the Labour party, that our only hope for the future is with a progressive alliance that includes fighting at very opportunity to remain in the EU, we should not split the anti Brexit vote in Richmond Park. Perhaps it is, even now, not too late for Christian Wolmar to fall on his sword.Adam HartLondon• I was at the constituency Labour party meeting to select the candidate for the Richmond Park byelection and I was deeply dismayed by the intervention of the official from London HQ, blocking all discussion of the idea of tactically not putting anyone forward for election in order to assist the Liberal Democrats to knock out Zac Goldsmith. Though he stands as an “independent”, we all know Goldsmith will instantly cosy up to the Tory government if he gets re-elected, and will give his customary support for Brexit, in defiance of the 70% of his constituents who voted remain in the EU referendum. I once challenged Zac in the street when he was in campaigning mode, over his staunch support for austerity and restructuring the NHS and he actually struck me as quite dim, such was his poor grasp of the impact of these core Tory policies on ordinary people. It would lift the whole mood on the left to defeat Goldsmith, significantly reducing the government majority in the Commons, and strengthening the resolve of those of us opposed to Brexit. I would now urge all Labour voters to set aside their reservations over tactical voting and put their X next to the Lib Dem, Sarah Olney, as the only candidate in a realistic position to defeat Zac. Then we can start thinking about longer-term possibilities of a fuller re-alignment of progressive forces, anything to overturn the hegemony of rightwing parties such as the Conservatives and Ukip, both of whom have stood aside to assist Zac.Giles OakleyLondon• The Richmond Park byelection on 1 December presents a great opportunity for Labour to show the country they know how to win the next general election. Why aren’t they taking it?Zac Goldsmith, the trust fund millionaire and ex non-dom, is a tarnished brand: his divisive mayoral campaign; his vote to deprive disabled people £30 a week in benefits; his vote for Brexit despite his constituency overwhelmingly supporting a remain vote. For these reasons, Zac’s time is up.But only the Lib Dems can beat him. For the last five elections (since 1997) Labour have never taken more than 13%. Labour simply cannot win in Richmond Park.The Greens understand this and have stepped aside for the Lib Dems. Ukip have stepped aside for the Tory in all but name, Zac Goldsmith. It would not be weakness, but pragmatic strength if Labour were to step aside now. This could usher in a new era of progressive cross-party co-operation where all parties work together to remove the Conservatives. We cannot win if we do not do this.In not doing so, Labour risks proving all the naysayers right. They can point to this byelection as proof that Labour are indeed a protest party, that they have no plan for how they might gain power, and how they are vain and stubborn losers, when they might be pragmatic, determined winners.Every vote Labour get in this constituency will be taken from the Lib Dems, not the Conservatives. If there is a rationale for Labour fighting the Richmond Park byelection please offer it up. Because I haven’t seen it.David L WilliamsLondon• Trying to fix backroom deals to ameliorate the iniquities of first past the post will be counterproductive and distract attention from the elephant in the room. Until the Westminster voting system is ditched, not much in England will change.Geoff ReidBradford• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com•  Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters