Critics on both sides of the Atlantic have been reaching for the superlatives to describe the first novel by the acclaimed short story writer George Saunders. Lincoln in the Bardo is populated by ghosts, including the 11-year-old son of Abraham Lincoln. “A luminous feat of generosity and humanism … magnificent portraiture”, said The Underground Railroad author Colson Whitehead in the New York Times, whose lead critic, Michiko Kakutani, also ruled it a “fruitful transition from the short story to the long-distance form of the novel”. The novel is “a breathtakingly agile narrative”, wrote Alex Clark in the Observer, “a polyphony (and occasional cacophony) of the voices of the dead …” The Daily Mail’s Elizabeth Buchan called it “an extraordinary novel: structurally inventive, impregnated with bitter grief, the surreal and the macabre, and yet imparting a joyous relish for life”. Lucy Scholes in the Independent compared its “play for voices” format to Dylan Thomas’s Under Milk Wood. Peter Kemp in the Sunday Times praised “a latter-day Dante or Hieronymus Bosch”. And Johanna Thomas-Corr in the Evening Standard called it “a surreal metaphysical drama about grief and freedom … a father-son narrative that is both hilarious and haunting … Saunders forces us to confront the strangeness of our own existence – that we must live knowing that we and everyone we love will die. But his dark imagination is in service of a tender heart (at times, his fiction reads a little like A Christmas Carol by way of Samuel Beckett).”Another fine novel, Birdcage Walk by Helen Dunmore, was admired. In telling the story of the 18th-century Bristol writer Julia Fawkes and her daughter Lizzie, “the power Dunmore gives to lowly female lives is inescapably moving, their stories taking us on a remarkable journey into the visceral heart of the female experience in Georgian Britain”, wrote Melissa Katsoulis in the Times. “With a poet’s ear she tunes in to their inner and outer voices as they go about their lives, constantly battling dirt and shame, and afraid of the men who own them … one of the bravest and most versatile writers of her generation … this fine, fiery novel will surely be remembered as one of her best.” The Daily Telegraph’s Jake Kerridge praised Dunmore’s oeuvre as “among the best historical fiction of our time … Dunmore and Hilary Mantel are, in their quiet way, now being recognised as the best writers of their generation … [this] novel is intended as an act of remembrance, to remind us that we owe these forgotten pioneers so many of our freedoms”. The Daily Mail’s Claire Allfree agreed: “it’s ultimately a novel about the ways in which we remember and, as such, a fitting contribution to Dunmore’s extraordinary legacy”.Powerful adjectives were also called upon to describe Erica Benner’s reappraisal of the Renaissance diplomat Niccolò Machiavelli, Be Like the Fox. “Compelling” and “unconventional”, said Julian Baggini in the Financial Times. “Enjoyably unorthodox … strong and rather engaging … a ripping read,” said the Daily Telegraph’s Tim Smith-Laing. The Literary Review’s Catherine Fletcher found the biographical method “not without its problems”, and would have appreciated “more of an acknowledgement of his faults”, but on the whole thought it “a splendidly colourful book” and Machiavelli himself somebody “with whom I’d happily knock back a bottle of Chianti”.