As a Denzel Washington fan, I try to see every movie he has made. When I was still flying, I would watch a Denzel movie two or three times on the trot, just to study the way he timed a sardonic smile – even today, I time a sardonic smile at my granddaughter’s dog. But those of us who would once haunt the DVD racks to pick up a Denzel movie must reconcile ourselves to never seeing, on any flight entertainment system, one of the greatest performances of his late period. Starring as an airline pilot in Flight, he is not only meant to be high on alcohol, but the airliner is also meant to be on the verge of falling apart.Long before it crashes, you realise that, if they recut the movie to be shown in flight, it would have to be about five minutes long. There is one scene, just before the airliner disintegrates, where passengers flying loose in the cabin start to bounce off the ceiling. Shortly afterwards, there is a slow, panoramic shot across the crash site to show just how many pieces there are. The thought occurred to me that Denzel was going to need his very best sardonic smile to get out of this one.What a movie, though, and yet another reminder that the screens go on filling up with marvellous creations. To balance this euphoria, you need also to remind yourself that the screens are filling up at an equal rate with howling stinkers. Searching through my Netflix hoard, I accidentally fell into a pit called The Last Heist, a mess that would be of zero interest if it did not attempt to combine two normally distinct plot formats: the gang of highly organised thieves cracks the vault, but there is inside it a psycho who collects eyeballs.Clive James: ‘I’ve been going deaf for years, so wouldn’t have been able to hear SS-GB anyway’ This particular shambles might even have been worth the time that I risked my own eyeballs watching it, if it had contained even a single actor I wanted to see.To collect an actor’s performances is still one of the best reasons for continuing the long search into infinity. For instance, I try to see everything that Idris Elba has done since he knocked me out in The Wire: he is the most kingly British star since Richard Burton, and acts rather better. But even the majestic Idris is at the mercy of the script. It must give him status, or his stature is wasted.This week, I watched Takers all over again, and finally figured out how Idris achieved nobility even though he ended up shot, along with every other crook in the movie: it was the assurance with which he wore his jacket. Also, it can’t hurt to be 7ft tall and almost as beautiful as Denzel.