The British landscape is marked with grandiose architectural indulgences, from the ruins of gothic towers built by slave owners to columns that commemorate long-ago battles. Eccentric architecture is such a national tradition – kept very much alive today by Grayson Perry’s House for Essex with its gingerbread Hansel and Gretel nuttiness – that the English language even cherishes the formal architectural term, “folly”: an extravagant, decorative, apparently useless building. Apparently useless because Greek temples on aristocratic estates often turn out to be water towers in disguise.Nicholas van Hoogstraten’s Hamilton Palace in Sussex is a folly – a colossal country house begun in 1985. Yet to judge from recent photographs it sits still unfinished and unlived-in, a vast cold husk of a place with scrappy builders’ debris scattered on one side while the other facade glares at a wintry English countryside. It is a singularly macabre structure, with a golden domed mausoleum for Van Hoogstraten at its centre. Is it a mansion or a tomb?Neighbours call it “the ghost house of Sussex” and want it to be turned into a refuge for homeless people. Van Hoogstraten in reply called them “moronic peasants”, and homeless Britons “one of the filthiest burdens on the public purse today”.Van Hoogstraten would be far too corny a villain for a John le Carré drama. Hugh Laurie would simply refuse to play this implausible monster. Public school-educated arms dealers posing as philanthropists are one thing, but this notorious slum landlord – who lives in Zimbabwe after being exonerated in a horrific murder case on appeal, after initially being found guilty of manslaughter – seems like a caricature of amoral capitalism. His vast yet unused “palace” has now become a symbol of Britain’s housing crisis. Doesn’t the fact that one man – who enriched himself at the expense of tenants – can afford to carry out such a wasteful project of architectural self-glorification while so many are locked out of the property market say something about the times in which we live?Hamilton Palace is no style setter. It won’t ever get featured in design magazines. It is a grotesque creation. Its brick bulk suggests an attempt to recreate the great houses of Jacobean and Georgian times, to make a quasi-aristocratic – or even monarchical – mark on the landscape. Yet the golden domes glittering above the trees are completely out of tune with any British architectural tradition. Shunning modernist invention, Van Hoogstraten is too pompous and narcissistic to accurately mirror the grace of the past. His house is more like an abandoned Victorian asylum than a Palladian mansion. It says “screw you” not just to ramblers, neighbours and migrants, but to the landscape itself.Lynn Barber meets Nicholas van Hoogstraten The question is, does Van Hoogstraten’s lack of architectural taste, any more than his controversial business career, disqualify him from building his own house, in his own way, on his own land? The answer in a tolerant society has to be a straightforward “no”. Neither his personal reputation nor his aesthetic choices are a reason to call for his house, rather than any other, to be turned into a hostel or handed over to public use.We really need to remind ourselves who we are – a democracy that values individual liberty. All the follies up and down the British Isles, from his lordship’s castle to that bungalow with a garden full of gnomes and a wishing well, are expressions of personality and flights of fancy. You may want to decorate your house in glitter, I may want to do mine out as a Tardis. We can if we like.But that’s to assume everyone is a property owner – what complacency. However, if property is theft, all property is equally theft. You can’t celebrate – as we do – people building modern houses on Grand Designs, then condemn Van Hoogstraten for doing much the same thing in his own awful way.Monsters are pitiable. This house, with its complete lack of charm or humanity, is an architectural monstrosity. But it’s just as brave to try and build a palace as it is to build a glass pavilion. Either all private architecture is an insult to homeless people and to tenants or we should tolerate Hamilton Palace as the absurd and hideous ugly cousin of more fashionable private building ventures.Anger is distorting modern life. It doesn’t hurt me or you that one man has spent his money on a golden-domed folly. It may even be an eccentric marvel of a kind: a grisly self-portrait in the form of a loveless mansion. Better to laugh at its absurdity than take it seriously as yet another object of hate and rage in a world that needs more kindness.