Don't fly. Don't eat meat. Don't drive a car. Don't buy stuff. And whatever you do, make sure to turn off the lights. This is often how environmentalists are perceived – as people, who do not really appreciate life and would prefer it if human activity ceased in order to safeguard our surroundings.But is this really the way it is? Is it so that those of us with green hearts and minds are opposed to progress and that we would rather extinguish life than letting it flourish? No, not at all. On the contrary, it is exactly because we love and enjoy life that we want to sustain it. It is because we want to make sure that those who come after us will also be able to enjoy the same wonders of life that we have. To eat amazing food, to visit beautiful places and to experience the wonders of nature. That is why we are ready to change the way we live and that is why we strive to change the world around us.There is no doubt that we are currently moving along an unsustainable path. And we will surely hit several boundaries within the coming years, unless we transform the way we live and organise our societies. So the real question is: how do we get people to change? How do we enable and encourage lifestyles for everyone that do not endanger the future of our children?I am personally convinced that we will not inspire people to change by moralising or spreading apocalyptic visions. My guess is that only roughly a third of people are idealistic enough to change their behaviour because it is the right thing to do. Moralising might move this group, but will scare away just as many. So what then?Writing this, I'm attending a World Economic Forum conference in Abu Dhabi. This week, I found myself at a table with a group of people I'm connected to through the Young Global Leaders network. There was a corporate sustainability expert of a large British company, a behavioural scientist, an experienced communicator and a networking expert. We discussed how the transformation of our societies can be done. So here's what came up: first of all, politicians need to set clear goals and visions on what we want our societies to look like in the future.In Denmark, a broad political coalition has agreed that the country should be independent of fossil fuels by 2050. This means that we are already transforming our energy supply to renewables. We have also recently set the goal that we want to create a waste-free society, where everything that can be recycled, is recycled.But one thing is setting the goals, another is reaching them. And this is where my conversation partners come in. Because a common mistake for me and my political colleagues is to think that we know exactly what tools are needed to realise our goals. We don't – and we should stop believing that we do. Instead, we should give citizens, companies, NGOs and municipalities the possibility to find the best solutions and give them the freedom to implement them.For instance, if we want people to recycle and businesses to develop new business models that lead to more resource-efficient consumption and production, we need to look beyond our parliaments. The behavioural scientist from my table had several ideas on how to get people on board. We should paint garbage trucks two distinct colours in order to reassure people that waste is not just mixed together but kept separate in the truck. The corporate sustainability expert could make sure that companies understood the importance of this new agenda and saw it as a business opportunity, and our communication expert could help get the customers on board by demanding more of the companies.Of course, the task is larger and much more complicated than I have just described. Nevertheless, we need to make it easy and understandable for people to act sustainable. And we need to ensure that individual changes in behaviour lead to the transformation of society.Last night, all we needed – besides a few glasses of wine – was to meet around a specific problem and come at it from different angles and contribute to it. So we met, and we will meet again and we will all drive our agendas with new perspectives. And I wonder if this won't bring on more change than the usual talk about how horrible everything is?One thing is for sure – most people would much rather be part of a solution than part of a problem. They will move and change if they see opportunities. And they will want to be where things are moving forward – not backwards.So to paraphrase: greens around the world, unite! Unite with those, who work on solutions that will allow us to reach our goals. Unite and get behind the politicians, who are ready to set a direction for a sustainable future. And don't forget to show people that you fight not because you deny life but exactly because you love it.Ida Auken is minister for the environment in Denmark