Critical Mass is not a conventionally political movement. In cities around the world, the monthly bicycle event sees cyclists – from London to New York and Sydney – convene in a regular place, on the last Friday of the month, and ride the streets of their city in the safety and camaraderie of a group.With its mildly anarchic origins in the idea that cities should be designed around human beings rather than motor vehicles, and that those human beings have a right to free movement on the roads of their cities, perhaps I should not have been so surprised to learn London’s August ride would see bicycles taken from the capital to Calais, where they would be donated to people at the refugee camp known as the Jungle.There is often a healthy tendency for scepticism where simple acts of charity are concerned, and so too a worry that donations can upset the local community and barter relations. Where bicycles and life in the refugee camp are concerned, however, the equation is quite simple. Bicycles, judging by the constant stream being pedalled from the Jungle to Calais, are an invaluable aid in lives that have already been made unbearably difficult. On the wall of a caravan that has become a community bulletin board, a small poster advertises cheap bikes available from between €20– 30. Though the amount is small, it is still money that the refugees in the camp sorely need for food and other amenities.I rode the 85 miles from London to Dover, overnight and a day earlier than the main convoy of 150 riders set out, and the long hours of darkness gave me ample time to ponder what difference my bicycle would actually make.I’d been moved to donate the bike because, out of the cold inhumanity in so much policy, reporting and public comment, I wanted to provide some small gesture to show the refugees in the camp that people in the world did care about their plight and did want to help them. Beyond that simple motivation, however, were many more doubts and insecurities. Going out of your way to pedal a bicycle to a refugee camp, even if to give away that bicycle to someone who needs it, smacks of wilfully seeking out inconvenience in a life that – at such a time – seems guiltily comfortable. Having a passport when riding a bicycle to a refugee camp, makes you feel unavoidably ridiculous. I once broke the record for cycling fastest around the world, a quixotic protest against the previous record holder’s proud affiliations with big finance – it wasn’t hard to imagine that I was here embarking on another fool’s errand.Despite all of that, with the miles now pedalled, I’m glad I did it. I don’t think the fact that I did it makes me a good person, just a person moved to do something small in aid of those who need support – a normal person trying to be a better person. I feel confident that my donation was genuinely appreciated by those Eritreans who took the bicycle from me with smiles and small bows of gratitude that were not the least necessary. I’m glad that I persuaded a friend to liberate his luminescent orange bike from its unused life in a garage, and that those Eritrean youths will now be riding the thing on the five-mile round-trip that the refugees must undertake to reach Calais and obtain basic supplies – food, toiletries, and until very recently, water – needed for life in the camp.Volunteers in the camp – many from France, Britain and Germany – have now set up a library, a makeshift hospital and an advice centre where things such as Western Union transfers can be facilitated. As I left, a London architect was working with a Pashtun carpenter to construct a bicycle workshop. Those I spoke with in the camp told me of the need to make it to the UK for the good life that waited there; the sort of aspirational line that has been used to justify the political and media label of ‘migrant’. With a little more conversation, you learn quickly that most of the people there want to make it to this ‘good life’ because, at home, the Afghans will be forcibly enlisted to work for the Taliban, while the Sudanese in the camp belong to ethnic groups that face torture and death if their regional police force find them. They want this ‘good life’, but without feeling the need to stress the brutalities they have escaped to get a chance at it. Julian Sayarer is a former bike courier and the author of the book Life Cycles