There are 54 countries in Africa, each with numerous ethnic groups and languages and each with their own individual cuisines,” says Alicia Ama, who runs a Ghanaian food business called Chalé! in east London. “It’s such a vast continent, but when it comes to African food in the UK, there are so few reference points in the general public’s mind. People think of tagines and Jamie Oliver’s jollof rice. But it’s so much more than that.” Is it too spicy? Are you going to die?”Alicia Ama Ama is one of a new generation of cooks, many of them coming up through the London street food scene, who are striving to broaden and complicate our notions of African food. Even now, if you want to sample cooking from Nigeria, Ethiopia or Zimbabwe, you have to do a bit of detective work. The restaurants exist, and some of them are excellent, but they tend to cater to the diaspora rather than the general public (and good luck to you if you’re searching for decent African restaurants outside London).But things are starting to change. African food is on the rise this year, and it’s Ama and a growing number of young culinary pioneers – at markets, pop-ups and cafés around London – who are bringing it about.Makda and Jack Harlow, Lemlem KitchenLong before they started Lemlem Kitchen in 2014, Makda and Jack Harlow wanted to run a business together. She was working in fashion retail, he was an operations manager at Universal Music. They didn’t know what their business would be exactly, but both loved cooking and food markets. Gradually, the idea of setting up a food stall came into focus.From there, it wasn’t a great leap to figure out what kind of food they’d serve. Makda grew up in Eritrea, and although there are some very good traditional Eritrean restaurants in London, there was a gap to be filled on the street food scene. The tougher question, when they secured a space at Netil Market in east London, was how to present it. “We came up with lots of ideas including wraps and buns,” says Jack, “but the idea that was almost an afterthought is now our signature dish.” Kids see us mixing Eritrean flavours with things like tacos and wings and it blows their mindsJack Harlow They call them “Afro-tacos” – palm-sized disks of injera, the ubiquitous spongy flatbread of Eritrean and Ethiopian cuisine, topped with intensely flavoured hits of spiced lamb, cardamom-braised beef or fried fish with yogurt and pickled green chilli. Sides include chicken wings in awaze sauce and steak fries with asmarino salsa. While the flavours are recognisably Eritrean, the presentation has a universal appeal.“We’re trying to find a way to change traditional food to something different, to make it accessible,” says Makda. “It’s an introduction of Eritrean flavours to the London scene.”“We weren’t sure what kind of reaction we’d get,” says Jack. “There’s been a bit of criticism online, but mostly people are inspired. Kids in the diaspora who associate traditional food with weddings and funerals see us mixing Eritrean flavours with things like tacos and wings and it blows their minds.”Alicia Ama, Chalé!      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  ‘People kept coming back’: Alicia Amaa of Chale! Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the ObserverWhen Alicia Ama first served her food at a market in east London in June 2014, she worried that some of her customers might find it overwhelming. “Is it too spicy?” she wondered. “Are you going to die?”Ama, who grew up in Ipswich, was cooking dishes from Ghana, where her mother was born. Ama had visited the country regularly as a child and loved the intensity of Ghanaian cuisine – “125% spicy” – but she had no idea how Londoners would react. Fortunately, there were no casualties: “People kept coming back.”  My aunties back home in Ghana were amazedAlicia Ama Now Ama runs a flourishing street food company called Chalé!, which means “friend” in Ghanaian slang. She trades most Sundays at Chatsworth Road market in Hackney and occasionally at the weekend food market at the Southbank Centre. She also does pop-ups at cafés and bars around London, including a yearly residency at Tottenham’s Craving Coffee.The spiciness has been toned down since that first day, but her customers have proved more adventurous in other ways. “At first I tried doing fusion,” she says. “I’d put jollof rice into wraps and make chichinga [beef kebab] into a sort of burger. But then I found that the authentic dishes sold much better. People were more interested in our peanut butter stew or vegan kontomire [spinach stew with coconut and pumpkin] than the more westernised dishes.”It’s not only Ama who was taken aback by this. “My aunties back home in Ghana were amazed,” she laughs. “They couldn’t believe people in London wanted to eat Ghanaian food. They didn’t realise how hungry people in the west are for new flavours.”One day Ama might open a restaurant, but for now she’s “really enjoying the street food scene. It’s more dynamic and you get to meet your customers. It’s hands-on, fast and fun.”Nima Owino, Nim’s Din blog / Cham Cham supper club and stall      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A new twist: Nima Owino of Cham Cham. Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the Observer“I want to bring west African food to the masses,” says Nima Owino, who runs supper clubs and market stalls in east London. “I don’t see why it shouldn’t be as popular as Indian or Chinese food.” I don’t see why it shouldn’t be as popular as Indian or Chinese foodNima Owino Owino was raised in London, but she has family connections to west Africa. At her monthly supper club Cham Cham, launched in October 2014, and her food stall of the same name at Well Street market in Hackney, she focuses on the cuisine of Sierra Leone and Liberia, where her mother grew up. “Some of the dishes are truly authentic,” she says, “whereas some have a personal twist.” She serves pepper chicken, a classic west African street food dish, in a sweet bread roll with a superb jacato (aubergine) baba ganoush, which you can also buy in jars from her stall.One detail that sets Liberian and Sierra Leonean food apart, says Owino, is the use of leaves from root vegetables such as cassava or sweet potato. A favourite dish of hers, which you might get to try at her supper club if you’re lucky, is cassava leaves slow-cooked with beef, butter beans and onions.What has kept west African food from becoming as popular as cuisines from India or China? It’s down to lack of familiarity, says Owino. “When Punjabi food was introduced here, people were like: ‘Oh I’m not really familiar with that ingredient, that smell or spice.’ It’s the fear of the unknown, really.”That’s beginning to change, she says. “In the last year I’ve seen loads of African stalls and cafés popping up and people are becoming more familiar with the dishes. It’s definitely getting a lot more interesting now.”