Almost three-quarters of women in England start breastfeeding after giving birth, but less than half are still doing so two months later according to NHS and Public Health England data.PHE recommends exclusive breastfeeding for the first six months, as does the World Health Organization, because it boosts a baby’s ability to fight illness and infection. But a survey of 500 mothers commissioned by PHE found that fears about breastfeeding among women included that it could be painful (74%), prevent them from taking medication (71%) and be embarrassing in front of strangers (63%).We spoke to mothers about how realistic it is to breastfeed up to the suggested six months and what support is available to them.Steph, 31, from Leeds, with a two-year-old son: I felt trapped by the whole experience I exclusively breastfed until my son was three months old. Initially he took to it really well. He fed very frequently and took a long time doing it, and he was gaining weight and healthy. But I found the whole experience exhausting as he always wanted to feed. A simple task such as making a cup of coffee seemed impossible during those first few months as he would scream for food within minutes of finishing. But I was told this was all very normal and to carry on. So I did. Less than half of women breastfeed after two months, survey finds Then things started to change, he became harder and harder to feed. I felt trapped by the whole experience. I was jealous of those women who could nip to the shops or have a haircut without having to get their breasts out to feed a screaming infant. But still, we carried on. I had to express when I could or risk another bout of mastitis. Health visitors and doctors encouraged me to keep going … until I reached breaking point. My mental health had deteriorated without me realising because I was so stubborn. I finally gave in and stopped because my body couldn’t hack it any longer. Once I switched to formula, my son was finally happy because he seemed, for the first time, to be satisfied with a feed. It haunts me to this day and it’s making me not want to try for another baby. I love that breastfeeding is encouraged, but I feel that there are vulnerable women who, like me, read so many horror stories of potential dangers to formula-fed babies, it stops them going down that road if they feel they need or want to. I’d like to see more support for families. We live in very isolated societies. With only two weeks’ paternity leave on offer, the mother is often left to her own devices for hours a day with very little support. I don’t have an answer to the problem. It’s just very easy to see why and how people don’t breastfeed for longer.Jenna, 33, from Glasgow, with one child: I loathed the experience of breastfeeding       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I hated it to the point where I would sit crying through a feed.’ Photograph: KidStock/Getty ImagesI stopped breastfeeding at four months. I didn’t particularly enjoy doing it; it reminded me of the first time I gave blood and could actually feel the fluid draining out. No help was really given by health providers. I eventually gave up when I realised I loathed the experience, hated it to the point where I would sit crying through a feed. I realised by four months that I had little bond with my son and was verging on depression from lack of sleep and the stress of feeding. Kim, 37, Cardiff, with a 17-month-old baby: Stories of nipple confusion meant I was reluctant to try a bottle too earlyWomen’s breasts can be sexual and feed babies – pretty basic really | Hollie McNish Breastfeeding is great, although women who find that they can’t do it shouldn’t be made to feel bad, guilty or inadequate. The midwives and breastfeeding consultants that I saw scared me with stories of nipple confusion, so I was reluctant to try a bottle too early. This led to my baby refusing a bottle and, later, breast milk from a cup. I now have a love-hate relationship with breastfeeding as I’m extremely tired all the time. My baby has always woken at least every two hours during the night and needs to be fed back to sleep. I feel as though I could be a better and happier mum if my husband could help during the night, so I could have a break every now and then. I have never come across someone who has battled with nipple confusion, yet my story is a very common one. Breastfeeding advice should be considerate and in support of the mother so that family can help her and she doesn’t give up through sheer exhaustion, which a few of my friends have done.Nicky, 53, Cornwall, with three kids: I look at mothers now and feel envious when I see them feeding      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I didn’t want to stop but social conventions stopped me really.’ Photograph: Getty ImagesI stopped breastfeeding my first born at three weeks because I had to return to work as a staff nurse on full hours with nights and shifts. There was not a lot of compassion in the NHS 25 years ago for new mums. It was heartbreaking to stop. With the next one I breastfed till he was two – I didn’t want to stop but social conventions stopped me really. People kept asking when I was going to stop but baby didn’t want anything else.I look at mothers now and feel envious when I see them feeding, its indescribably special, it’s among my most precious memories. It encapsulates motherhood and I regret not doing it longer with my eldest. I think it took me a while to stop with the second one because as a 40-year-old, I knew it was my last baby and last opportunity to breastfeed. It is a hugely feminist issue centred around a perceived function of women bodies and a sort of patriarchal hangover of ownership of women. I live in a very rural area with some fairly old fashioned viewpoints. Who are these people to comment on my breasts doing their breast thing? What and whom do they think they are for? Sadly, the most judgmental people were the older men in my family, who on one hand behaved like schoolboys around a pair of exposed breasts on the beach and TV, and then found the idea of breastfeeding in public disgusting. Trudy, 38, Portsmouth: Schools should educate about breastfeeding and formula feeding unbiasedly I stopped breastfeeding my children at two and four years old. The youngest had dairy milk intolerance. My hubby supported me with my first and stopped me giving up. I had to fight to get him diagnosed with tongue-tie and dairy milk protein intolerant, and he was found to be iron deficient. But it was only because I had confidence in my milk, my feeding and had peer support. I was pushed towards formula but if I had gone down that route my child may not be the healthy soul he is now. We need to start teaching breastfeeding in schools. But bottle feeding needs to be taught alongside to try to let our youth make an unbiased choice in how they will feed later on. 