It’s not the nights drawing in, nor the littering of the kitchen with misspelled letters to Santa, that marks the beginning of winter. No, in this house it’s the battle of the thermostat. From November to March, ritual combat ensues: my husband turns the heating down; I turn it up. Repeat to fade.Babies make you want to change the world. Maybe Mark Zuckerberg can | Rachel Sklar But not this year. When people ask, 41 winters hence, how we managed to stay married for half a century I will show them my new (or probably, by then, old) app thingummy. It controls the central heating via Wi-Fi from your mobile, wherever you are, so that when your spouse fiddles with ye olde wall thermostat you can secretly override the hell out of it on your phone. Little does he know, having lost interest halfway through the explanation of how the new boiler works, but my husband is waging cavalry warfare against tanks.Smart thermostats aren’t for saving marriages, however, but saving the planet. They make it easy to kill the heating whenever you’re out or late home, and whoosh it back up just before returning. In theory we’ll be warmer but greener, thanks to burning fuel more selectively. How easy to believe that this is the future; that tech will effortlessly save us from our idiot selves.And it’s not just climate change. The Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and his wife Priscilla Chan have just had a baby and, as is the way of babies, she seems to have changed their lives. They’ve just announced that they’ll be giving away 99% of their Facebook stock – which is precisely the sort of thing one does when crazed with sleep deprivation and hormones – to a charitable foundation aimed at saving the world through technology.This sudden urge to do your bit for humanity, to create a better world for other people’s children too, is one of the nicer surprises of parenthood. Perhaps the most moving exposition of it this week came from Emma and Andrew Lee, whose daughter Hope has became Britain’s youngest organ donor. Born with a fatal brain condition, she lived for only just over an hour after her birth, but her parents ensured that her liver cells and kidneys live on in others. It helped to know that in her few minutes on Earth, they said, she had “achieved more than some people do in a lifetime”.The Chan-Zuckerbergs, having previously suffered several miscarriages, probably don’t need reminding how lucky they are to have their daughter. But as parents with $45bn odd to spare, they can express their gratitude to the universe pretty specifically: not merely hoping for a better world but actively designing one to their personal specification. America’s new computing dynasties start to resemble not so much individuals as nation states For “better” means something different to everyone, and to Silicon Valley’s golden couple it clearly means “more technologically advanced”. Their new foundation’s priorities involve connecting the developing world to the internet, personalising learning in schools using technology, and developing clean energy sources.Philanthropy perhaps comes naturally to tech entrepreneurs, for whom the line between saving the world and doing business is often blurred. When Google announced plans, for example, to use its computing power to sequence the gene for autism, was it trying to help humanity, or expand its empire into the life sciences industry, or actually both? But if you add the Zuckerberg-Chans’ $45bn to the $34bn distributed so far in grants by Bill and Melinda Gates’ personal foundation then America’s new computing dynasties start to resemble not so much individuals as nation states: rich and powerful enough to shape all our lives, even more than their software has already done. Only a churl would sneer at the Gates Foundation’s contribution to almost eradicating polio, reducing preventable deaths among children under five and distributing anti-HIV drugs.True, we already have a centuries-old system for ensuring the very rich can do good for others, otherwise known as tax; it might be simpler for Facebook just to pay more of it. But there’s no point blaming companies for tax laws set by governments, and if squillionaires want to spend the money we fail to take from them on eradicating horrific diseases rather than private jets, then perhaps we should be grateful.When does philanthropy end and dirty self-promotion begin? | Julian Baggini The money isn’t really the problem. The nature of the better world today’s new rich will build, on the other hand, is worth considering. Take a bunch of people whose skill is solving problems (which is basically what programming is) and they will naturally tend towards what has been dubbed “solutionism”, or the faintly messianic belief that everything can and should be fixed; as if the world were one giant program to be debugged.There’s much to admire in Silicon Valley’s up-and-at-’em optimism, and its creative thinking. It’s doubtful any civil servant tasked with disrupting Islamic State recruitment tools would have produced the meme currently sweeping social media, whereby duck heads and jaunty accessories are Photoshopped on to jihadi propaganda shots to render them ridiculous. (It originated from the notorious hackers’ forum 4chan.)But solutionists aren’t always so quick to acknowledge the harm as well as the good done by technology; the sometimes disturbing behaviour enabled in an ever-more connected world, the unexpected consequences even of welcome innovations. Their answer to a problem created by technology tends to be more tech – the hack that will fix this – not stepping back and asking where all this is going.And maybe they’re right. Maybe the idea that you save the planet by driving, flying, or consuming less is so last century. Maybe private goodwill is a reliable means of funding public good. Perhaps we’ll look back and be thankful that we outsourced much of the building of a better world to a handful of well-meaning unelected billionaires.But is it just me, or does it suddenly feel a little cooler in here?