There are many reasons I loved my recent visit to Killruddery House & Gardens in Bray, County Wicklow. Those 17th-century long ponds, and the rare and intact patte d’oie, or goose foot, avenues. There’s the walled garden growing fine no-dig vegetables and salads, and a delightful tearoom. There’s also Fionnuala Ardee’s kitchen. It’s not open to the public, but it’s there for weary souls who need a little pick-me-up. There’s always tea or wine, good sense and long tales. It’s a place to linger, but unfortunately my lingering meant I started to catch everyone’s cold.Ardee took out one of her many fermented jars and offered me what should be called nectar of the gods, because it tasted delicious and killed the cold in one. I think it might cure everything, including ennui.Here is the recipe: peel two heads of garlic and cover with six generous spoons of raw runny honey. Seal in a Mason jar and leave for two weeks. The honey draws out the garlic juices, which are powerful and headily sweet. Garlic and honey are known for their antibacterial and antifungal properties.To grow your own cold remedy, there are two windows for garlic planting: now until the end of the month, and again in February. Certain varieties are autumn- or spring-planted, so it’s worth checking. Garlic needs a cold chill to grow successfully: 30 to 60 nights below 10C is essential for clove formation. If you plant in late spring, you won’t get this, and instead your garlic will grow as one big fat bulb.Plant cloves 15cm apart, 10cm deep; flat end down. If the ground is likely to be wet, plant them on a ridge. Leave about 30cm between rows. For blocks, make a grid, then plant 18-20cm each way.How to turn wood chips into a great compost heap | Alys Fowler Plant in pots as long as they are deep; they will need regular watering in summer. Start your garlic off in modules if planting space is not available yet. Overwinter the modules somewhere frost-free and plant out in spring. Make sure they don’t dry out. If your soil is thin, spread organic matter on top of it and plant into that. Sometimes blackbirds think this great fun and uproot all your garlic, so cover with netting until it is rooted and showing some green.There are two types of garlic: hardneck and softneck. Hardneck garlic has a flower spike that is hard, and tends to have fewer, fatter cloves with a rich, complex flavour. It doesn’t store as long as softneck garlic – the sort used for dried garlic. Softneck garlic produces flower stalks (also known as scapes) if stressed.I like ‘Lautrec Wight’ (hardneck) with its pretty pink cloves and ‘Chesnok Red’ for roasting. ‘Wight Cristo’ is reliable and has a strong flavour. ‘Picardy Wight’ is a dual softneck planted in autumn or spring. The Garlic Farm on the Isle of Wight is an excellent supplier.