Spoiler alert: this blog is for people watching series four of Line of Duty (it also contains spoilers from earlier series). Don’t read on unless you have watched episode two. Catch up on the episode one recap hereOne of the main themes of Line of Duty has always been the way one moment can lead a person’s life to spiral out of control. Thus in series one Tony Gates wasn’t so much a bent cop as someone almost forced into corruption because of what he stood to lose. Similarly, Lindsay Denton in the second series turned out to have done terrible things largely out of a desire to help, while last year Danny Waldron acted in a split-second as his past raged up and threatened to engulf him. So what of Thandie Newton’s Roz Huntley? Was she corrupt before Tim Ifield’s death? We don’t yet know, but by the end of this episode she’d tampered with evidence, seemingly framed her dead colleague for multiple murders and appeared content to allow an almost certainly innocent man to stay in prison if it saved her own skin. We can safely say she’s corrupt now.The bad guysThat said, I still don’t quite have a handle on Huntley – and that’s not down to Newton so much as to slightly erratic writing. Some of her dialogue was overly knowing this week – I was most unhappy with her line after returning to work “I think I’ve picked up some kind of bug, grim night” which seemed to have escaped from a cheesy 80s action movie. It also undermined the genuinely tense and realistic moments, such as her interrogation scene with Hastings and Arnott and her imperious slap-down of Hastings outside the crime scene: “I’d thank you to use gender neutral language and remind you this is a fresh investigation.”What we do know: Huntley was once a high-flying fast-tracked college graduate (I was glad they spelt that out) who stepped away to have children – whether by choice or because it was expected isn’t yet clear, though it’s worth noting that the family home isn’t exactly brimming with warmth. Operation Trapdoor marked her big chance to remind people how good she once was, and there was clearly a great deal of pressure. Judging by her answers in the interrogation scene, I’d say she jumped on Michael Farmer as an obvious suspect (particularly because of the sex offender record, which we know may not be that solid) and seems to have cut corners and ignored evidence in her haste to arrest him. Was Kate right to suggest a male SIO wouldn’t have been relieved of duty in the same circumstances? I’m not sure. But whether Huntley was let down by superior officers or unfairly accused over her handling of Trapdoor, she’s not on the side of the angels now. She may have killed Ifield in self-defence, but everything she did after is unjustifiable. The good guys      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Huntley has a suspiciously cosy relationship with ACC Derek Hilton. Photograph: Aidan Monaghan/World Productions/BBCShe’s also running rings around AC-12, largely because of that cosy relationship with ACC Derek Hilton. The scenes between Huntley and Hastings were especially well played: much as I adore Ted for his righteous sense of purpose, there’s no denying that he’s an old-school sexist dinosaur. He clearly dislikes Huntley’s cool competence, partially because he knows she’s hiding something but also because part of him probably thinks she’s too hard, too sharp and not quick enough to smile. Hence the description of her as a “wee girl” and the use of the word “darling” when reminding her that he was a senior officer. The subplot with Kate, Steve and the promotion underlined that sexism and workplace attitudes will be a major theme this season. Again I thought Hastings’s refusal to have a drink with Kate on the grounds that people might misinterpret it was believable given his age, and highlighted one of the issues women can face at work – it’s far harder to be clubbable when people believe a drink could be taken wildly out of context. As for who should have got the promotion: surely the answer is neither of them? Kate may have a commendation for bravery but she also endangered an investigation by failing to mention she had been sleeping with the victim’s husband, and we all know about Steve’s almighty mess-up with Denton. That said, I’d probably take Kate, inexperience and all, over Steve and his tendency to jump first and ask questions later.Case notes      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   About time too! Kate finally comes up against a police officer who knows she’s an undercover cop. Photograph: Aidan Monaghan/World Productions/BBC• It is possible that Ifield actually was Balaclava Man and that Huntley is fitting up the right man for the wrong reasons.• Poor Farmer – the prison scenes were awful, as was the realisation that he’d been bullied into screwing up his alibi. I was however pleased that everyone’s questions about his driving ability and probable lack thereof were answered. Although that does raise another question – isn’t there a strong likelihood this case would have fallen apart before court despite Huntley’s confidence?• Finally, Kate comes up against a police officer who knows she’s an undercover cop. It was about time. That said, I fear Ian Buckells is going to buckle (sorry) under pressure. • Huntley is very quick on her feet – I’d say that she only decided she could frame Ifield after the cleaning job for Hannah linked him to a victim. • That said, the 30/13 switcheroo will almost certainly prove her downfall. • Perhaps Hastings should be considering promoting Maneet – she’s the only calm member of his circle. • Please tell me I’m not the only person who got excited about phone triangulation. I blame Serial. • How much of Kate’s comments about sexism were part of the undercover game and how much is what she really feels? • Finally, while I’ve criticised some dialogue, much of it was spot on. Of particular note: the endless girls Hastings scatters through his speech – they’re always wee girls, not women. Jed Mercurio definitely wants us to think about institutionalised sexism, regardless of how the plot pans out. Weasel of the weekA tough call this week – it should really go to Huntley, whose actions were indefensible, but I felt it was pretty weaselly of Hastings to take Steve for a drink when he wouldn’t take Kate for one. It’s so hard when your heroes have feet of clay. Quote of the week“We know that, fella. That’s why I’m asking the organ grinder and not her monkey” – still, at least Hastings’s ability to deliver acerbic one-liners remains intact.So what did you think? Is Roz Huntley bad to the bone or just acting on instinct? Who should have been promoted – Steve or Kate? And will anyone help poor Michael Farmer? As ever, all speculation and no spoilers welcome below…