West London has been filled in the past week with publishers offering first hints about new books from literary stars including Ian McEwan, Orhan Pamuk and Karl Ove Knausgaard, but the talk of the London book fair is a former management consultant who has landed a series of deals worth millions of pounds. This is a dream – it's obviously what every writer wants, and I'm overwhelmed Chloé Esposito, who gave up her job last summer to take the Faber Academy writing course, has signed deals with publishers around the world for a trilogy of books, which according to the author are filled with “loads of sex and violence”. The three novels, Mad, Bad and Dangerous to Know, tell the story of a twin who assumes her dead sister’s life, and have racked up deals in at least eight international territories, including Michael Joseph in the UK, which are understood to total more than £2m. Esposito is also in talks with Hollywood about a film adaptation.“It’s my first novel but I’ve written hundreds previously, although I’ve never finished them,” said Esposito. “In July last year I stopped work to focus on my daughter, my novel, and to make sure my home wasn’t a bombsite ... This is a dream – it’s obviously what every writer wants, and I’m overwhelmed by how well it’s going. I’m waiting to wake up.”Her agent, Simon Trewin at WME, said he hadn’t seen “momentum around a book like this for a long time”.“It’s a thriller with a high concept,” said Trewin, “a pair of twins, one who’s living a charmed life, and one who’s living in London with a Bridget Jones-like existence, hating her job and her flat share ... Someone described it as American Psycho for the Gone Girl generation, or The Talented Mr Ripley meets Trainwreck.”The London book fair has also seen HarperCollins imprint Harlequin sign a fiction deal with the 2015 Great British Bake Off winner Nadiya Hussain, as well as a flurry of interest around a serial killer thriller from the former paramedic Daniel Cole. Ragdoll has been acquired by Orion in the UK for six figures, and is attracting a mass of bids from around the world. Hutchinson have also signed up the Syrian anti-IS activist Mohammed, who has been telling the world about life in Raqqa via Radio 4’s Today programme. The Raqqa Diaries, which were written, encrypted and sent to a third country before being translated, will be published later this year.The international publishing event has also seen the usual series of announcements giving details of forthcoming novels from literary big-hitters. Ian McEwan’s Nutshell, called “a classic story of murder and deceit, told by a narrator with a perspective and voice unlike any in recent literature” by publisher Jonathan Cape, will come out in September, while Faber has acquired a new novel by the Nobel laureate Orhan Pamuk, called The Red-Haired Woman. Set in the mid-1980s in Istanbul, Pamuk’s story of a well-digger and his apprentice looking for water on barren land will be published in September 2017.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Karl Ove Knausgaard … reflections on football, art, life and politics. Photograph: Sam BarkerAn English translation of Karl Ove Knausgaard’s latest work Home and Away, a collection of letters between the Norwegian author and his fellow writer Fredrik Ekelund discussing football, life, art and politics, will be published in November by Harvill Secker. The fair also saw details revealed about a new novel from Booker winner James Kelman, American road trip novel Dirt Road, acquired by Canongate; and Costa winner Sebastian Barry’s mid-19th century America-set Days Without End was acquired by Faber. And an English-language edition of an authorised sequel to Antoine de Saint-Exupéry’s The Little Prince, AG Roemmers’s The Return of the Young Prince, was acquired by Oneworld, for publication in September. Already released in 17 languages with more than a million copies in print, publisher Juliet Mabey said it “perfectly captures the magical feel of Saint-Exupéry’s classic text in a worthy sequel to that phenomenal bestseller”.