Daniel Boulud’s coq au vin Makes 8 servingschicken legs 8onion 1 medium, slicedcarrot 1 medium, slicedcelery stalks 2, slicedgarlic 2 heads, sliced in halfsachet 8 sprigs thyme, 1 fresh bay leaf, 2 tsp coriander seed, 1 tsp cracked white pepper tied up in a piece of cheesecloth with butcher’s twinebacon 450g slab, cut into ⅔cm slicespearl onions 1kgsmall button mushrooms 1kg, cleaned and trimmeddry red wine 750mlruby port wine 375mlsalt and freshly ground pepperolive oil 60mlplain flour 30gchicken stock 475mlveal or beef stock 475mlYou will need extra cheesecloth and butcher’s twine.The day before cooking, separate the chicken legs into drumsticks and thighs. Place in a large bowl or container with the onion, carrot, celery, garlic and sachet. Cook the bacon in a large sauté pan over medium-high heat until just crispy. Wrap the bacon, pearl onions, and mushrooms into three separate cheesecloth bundles and secure with butchers twine; add to the chicken. Cover all ingredients with the red wine and port and marinate, covered, in the refrigerator overnight.Preheat the oven to 170C/gas mark 3. Strain the liquid from the marinated ingredients into a large pot and bring to a simmer; reduce by half. Meanwhile, pat the chicken dry and season with salt and pepper. Heat the olive oil in a large Dutch oven (or cast iron casserole) over medium high heat. Sear the chicken on all sides until browned. Remove the chicken, and add the onion, carrot, celery, garlic and sachet. Cook, stirring occasionally, on medium heat until softened, about 6 minutes. Add the flour and cook, stirring, for another 4 minutes.Add the reduced marinade, chicken, bundles of mushroom, pearl onion and bacon, and chicken stock and veal stock. Bring to a simmer, cover with a round of parchment paper and transfer to the oven. Braise for 1 to 1½ hours, or until the chicken is tender.Strain the chicken and vegetables from the sauce, discarding the sliced carrot, onion and celery. Take the bacon, pearl onion and mushroom out of their bundles. If the sauce seems too thin, return to the heat and reduce until desired consistency (it should coat the back of a spoon). Incorporate all the ingredients back together and serve hot.Note: this dish is great served with fresh pasta or rice. It can be kept, chilled, for up to 4 days.Daniel Boulud is chef-proprietor of Daniel in Manhattan and Bar Boulud at the Mandarin Oriental Hyde Park, LondonHélène Darroze’s tarragon chicken      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hélène Darroze’s tarragon chicken. Photograph: Jean Cazals for the ObserverChicken is comfort food to me, it smells of home, of family, and can be enjoyed any time of the year. It is one of the most satisfying meals I know. This tarragon chicken was inspired by my grandmother’s recipe, tarragon being one of my favourite ingredients. Another thing I love about this dish is how versatile it is and can be adapted with the seasons. For example, over the summer, I use girolles mushrooms instead of morels.Serves 4olive oil 30mlsalt and pepperfree-range chicken 1, jointed into six piecesbaby white onions 12smoked bacon 160g, dicedmushrooms 16, ideally morelswhite wine 200mlchicken stock 900mldouble cream 180gthyme leaves 1 tbspcreme fraiche 100gtarragon ½ a bunch, finely choppedIn a large ovenproof pan, heat the olive oil over a medium heat. Season the chicken and cook, skin-side down, until golden. Set aside. Add the onions and bacon and cook slowly until lightly golden. Set aside. Brown the mushrooms and set aside.Drain most of the fat from the pan. Pour in the wine and reduce by half. Add the stock and reduce by half again. Add the cream and bring back to a simmer.Add the thighs and drumsticks and simmer for 30 minutes. Add the bacon, onions, mushrooms and thyme and cook for 5 minutes, then add the chicken breasts. Simmer gently for 8-10 minutes, depending on their size. Remove the breasts and legs and keep warm.Add the creme fraiche to the sauce. Simmer until thick enough to coat the back of a spoon.Check the seasoning and return the chicken to the sauce with the tarragon. Serve with rice.Hélène Darroze at the ConnaughtRichard Olney’s scalloped potatoes       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Richard Olney’s scalloped potatoes. Photograph: Jean Cazals for the ObserverA quarrel rages in France as to what may be the true gratin dauphinois. Egg and cheese are included in the recipes from old cookbooks (too far removed from the sources, according to the purists). Nearly every reputed restaurant has its celebrated gratin dauphinois and each is willing to divulge its recipe, usually incomprehensible and conceived in the interest of mystification (I have eaten potatoes boiled in milk and dryly reheated days later under a salamander in a restaurant whose publicly presented recipe pretends that they should be poached in milk, the milk discarded, covered with cream, and gratineed in the oven). When one gets rid of the nonsense, there is nothing very mysterious about this dish, which suddenly becomes one of the masterpieces of la grande cuisine.The quality of the dish depends on a number of different things (but not only one quality is the right one): the thinness of the potato slices as well as their breadth; the proportions of the dish in which they are cooked; the proportion of milk to cream; the heat at which they are cooked … Thickly sliced potatoes piled thickly into a deep dish, moistened only with milk, and cooked in a slow oven for 2 hours are neither less authentically gratin dauphinois nor less good (although a totally other experience) than paper-thin slices spread thinly in a wide and shallow dish, richly endowed with cream and baked in a hot oven for less than half the time ... The most important factor remains the quality of the potato and it should not be mealy.Serves 4garlic 2 clovesbutterpotatoes 750g, sliced thinly lengthwise on a mandolinesaltmilkdouble creamEarthenware will take the garlic better than other materials. Rub a large gratin dish with garlic (or, which is easier and more effective, put the peeled cloves through a garlic press, rubbing the puree and juices all over the sides and bottom of the dish and discarding any solid debris that remains), leave for a few minutes until the garlic juice has completely dried and is no longer tacky to the touch, butter the dish liberally, and pack in the potatoes in lightly salted layers. Pour over enough milk to just cover the potatoes, bring the liquid to a boil on top of the stove (using a heat diffuser to protect earthenware from the direct flame), spread a thin layer of cream over the surface, distribute thin shavings of butter, and bake in a 190C/gas mark 5 oven for about an hour, or until the liquid has been nearly completely absorbed, the potatoes give no resistance to a knife point, and a richly coloured skin has formed on the surface.From Simple French Food (Grub Street, £14.99). To order a copy for £12.74, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.David Tanis’s braised lettuce and sweet peas       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Tanis’s braised lettuce and sweet peas. Photograph: Gentl And HyersIf your great-great-grandmother was French or British, she would have known how to braise lettuce. Although braised lettuce was once a rather common dish, it’s rarely seen in the 21st century. To me, the concept still has great appeal, but it’s best when the lettuce is cooked just until tender. Add sweet peas if you are making this in the spring or summer; otherwise, skip them and just add the herbs. Any kind of sturdy head will work for this dish: little gem or romaine lettuce is a good choice.Serves 4-6little gem lettuces 6, or 2 small heads romainebutter 2 tbsponion 1 medium, dicedsalt and pepperchopped ham 50gshelled peas 150gchicken stock or water 110mlparsley 1 tbsp, choppedmint 1 tbsp, choppedIf using little gem lettuces, trim the bottoms and discard the tough outer leaves. Cut lengthwise in half, rinse briefly, and drain. If using romaine, cut the heads into quarters.In a wide large skillet, melt the butter over medium-high heat. Add the onion, season with salt and pepper, and cook until softened, about 5 minutes. Add the ham, peas and broth, and bring to a simmer. Add the lettuces in one layer and sprinkle lightly with salt. Put on the lid and let steam for about 5 minutes, until the lettuce is tender.Stir in the chopped parsley and mint.From One Good Dish by David Tanis (Workman Publishing, £17.99). To order a copy for £14.75, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.Claudia Roden’s salade nicoise       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Claudia Roden’s salade nicoise. Photograph: Jean Cazals for the ObserverCatherine-Hélène Barale, who runs a restaurant in Nice of the same name, is a formidable elderly woman who fiercely upholds Niçois cookery traditions. According to her, the true salade niçoise never contains potatoes or any other boiled vegetable. Here, then, is the “real thing”, made with raw vegetables only and including plenty of tomatoes.Serves 6tomatoes 10 medium-sized, cut in quarterssaltgarlic 1 clovecucumber 1 large, peeled and thinly slicedvery young broad beans or baby artichokes 200g, thinly sliced (optional)green peppers 2, thinly slicedspring onions 6, thinly slicedanchovy fillets 12, cut into piecestuna 250g tin, flakedblack olives 125ghard-boiled eggs 3, shelled and thinly slicedFor the dressingolive oil 90mlred wine vinegar 2 tbspbasil leaves 6, finely chopped (optional)salt and pepperSprinkle the tomatoes lightly with salt and let their juices drain. Cut the garlic clove in half and rub the inside of a bowl or a large serving dish. Arrange all the ingredients decoratively in the dish. Combine the dressing ingredients, pour over the salad, then serve.From Mediterranean Cookery by Claudia Roden