Late-night hosts discussed the latest news coming from the White House on Tuesday, including Ivanka Trump’s new office and security clearance.Late-night TV roundup: 'Trump lied on Twitter during a hearing about him lying on Twitter' On The Daily Show, Trevor Noah started by condensing the news of the day, given that there were so many points to cover. First, he spoke about the newly announced limitations for many passengers who won’t be able to carry some electronic devices in hand luggage.“A laptop ban?” he said. “I’ll tell you right now, I know who’s behind this. It’s that Gogo in-flight bullshit because they don’t want us watching the movies we brought on. They want us to pay $39.99 for two hours of their shit Wi-Fi ... It’s a violation of our human rights.”He continued: “If you thought you had problems with terrorism before, just wait until you see how parents react when they find out they have to be on a long flight with their kids and can’t use an iPad.”Noah then spoke about the two-day confirmation hearing for Trump’s supreme court nominee, Neil Gorsuch. He played a collection of clips and commented: “Wow, is this dude white?”He added: “You have a judge who, on the surface, is more than qualified but because of Trump’s taint, the Democrats really want to block him but they also kinda want to make out with him because good Lord, that man is handsome.”Rightwing pundit Tomi Lahren was also suspended from her show for admitting that she supports a woman’s right to an abortion, which Noah claimed was “not cool”.“I was so offended by the hypocrisy that I wanted to protest,” he said. “Unfortunately there’s no type of black-people protest that Tomi is comfortable with, so I guess we should just move on.”He then moved on to the news surrounding Ivanka Trump’s new role within the White House, which comes with high-level security clearance. “It’s official, people: the White House has lower standards of who they’ll bring in than Nordstrom,” he said.Noah added: “Ivanka says she’ll follow all the ethics rules. I feel like the first rule of ethics club is: don’t hire your daughter.”He wanted to go further into it but, as he previously mentioned, the amount of stories meant there wasn’t enough time. Noah joked: “This is one of those stories that goes so deep: nepotism, possible conflicts of incest, compromise of national security...”On The Late Show, Stephen Colbert discussed reports that paranoia has seized the White House. He joked: “I’m surprised. I thought Russia was going to seize it.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest He then brought up fear over the so-called deep state, a secret network of state employees working against the ruling party. “I thought a deep state is what you achieved after doing three bong hits and watching Planet Earth,” he said.“I think this paranoia is just the frustration every new administration has with Washington DC,” he said. “It happens every time. You went to Washington, you went to work for Trump because you wanted to tear down the government. Now you have to deal with it, now you are the government. It’s like a dog who spent his whole life chasing a car, now he has to drive the car. We’re not happy about it either. Remember, we’re in the backseat of a car being driven by a dog now.”John Oliver on Trump's budget cuts: 'impatient, vain and horny for malice' Colbert then moved on to Jeff Sessions, “our attorney general and forest gnome whose riddles are kind of racist”, who came out to say that the effects of marijuana aren’t that dissimilar to those achieved with heroin.“Sure, marijuana’s only slightly less awful than heroin,” he said. “Like how burning your tongue on cocoa is only slightly less awful than being set on fire.”He added: “Sessions is really uptight. If only there was some way to mellow him out.”On Late Night with Seth Meyers, the host also spoke about the ban on electronic items on flights from certain countries.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “It seems extreme, but it’s worth it if it stops at least one tourist from taking pictures with an iPad,” he joked.He also discussed Ivanka Trump’s White House appointment, referencing a claim that she will act as the president’s eyes and ears. “Mitch McConnell will continue to be the neck,” he said.Meyers then discussed the confirmation hearings of Neil Gorsuch and his statement that he is prepared to vote against the interests of any party, including the president – “which is bad news for Trump because he has a pretty big impeachment trial coming up”.