Late-night hosts took aim at the latest developments within Trump’s government, saying the president has gone from “dickish to dictator”.Melissa McCarthy steals the show as Sean Spicer on Saturday Night Live On The Daily Show, Trevor Noah spoke of Trump’s attack on James Robart, the federal judge who put a temporary halt to the controversial travel ban implemented last week. Noah compared judges to referees and criticized Trump’s treatment of him.“You can’t claim that the ref is not a ref unless you work at Foot Locker and that’s different,” he said. Noah then detailed Robart’s unlikely popularity with both parties.The Daily Show (@TheDailyShow)Trump channels his inner dictator in a tirade against the federal judge who blocked his Muslim ban. pic.twitter.com/WdYSxI39JYFebruary 7, 2017“The Senate confirmed him unanimously and the Senate never agrees on anything,” he said. “Even when they all watched La La Land, even then they didn’t agree. Ted Cruz and Chuck Schumer – they both loved it. But Bernie was like ‘it’s sentimental garbage, jazz doesn’t belong to white people’.”He then took apart Trump’s tactics, suggesting that they show that a worrying future could lie ahead.“If there’s one thing you should know about Trump, it’s that he has the impressive ability to take a bad situation and make it worse,” he said. “Alternative words. Disrespecting and delegitimizing a judge as just the start because then Trump took it from being dickish to dictatorish.”He also criticized Trump’s tweet suggesting that Robart will be to blame if any terrorist attacks occur on US shores soon.“They use the fear of the people to convince people to surrender their rights and if you don’t think the Trump administration would exploit a terror attack in that way, don’t take my word for it, just ask the survivors of the ‘Bowling Green Massacre’,” he said.On The Late Show, Stephen Colbert discussed Trump’s recent assertion that the media is failing to report on many terror attacks.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Stephen Colbert“The president is accusing the media of refusing to cover major terrorist attacks,” he said. “Why? Reasons. It makes perfect sense. You know the old news adage: if it bleeds, don’t talk about it.”He referred to Kellyanne Conway as “White House spokeswoman and person who has not slept since the Carter administration” and went on to ridicule her much-publicized ‘Bowling Green Massacre’ gaffe.Kellyanne Conway's fictitious 'Bowling Green massacre' not a one-time slip of the tongue “Yes, it didn’t get covered, on the flimsy excuse that there was no ‘Bowling Green Massacre’,” he said. “But I think we all remember where we weren’t were when we didn’t hear that nothing had happened.”Colbert then insisted the media finally give the bogus event the coverage it deserves: “I demand the media not release the reports they did not do on the attacks that did not occur and I will not rest until they don’t.”On Late Night with Seth Meyers, the host first took a quick swipe at the modest pro-Trump protest that took place over the weekend in New York.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “Fifty to 100 people in New York City is not a rally,” he said. “It’s a Times Square corner. It’s the line to get into Dave and Busters.”Meyers critiqued a common tactic used by the administration to lie as a distraction to cover up an even worse lie. “That’s like telling everyone you have a girlfriend in Canada when actually, you have a dead body in the basement,” he said.He also jokes about the reality TV star turned president’s inability to be reserved. “Trying to strike a moderate tone with Trump as president is a little like trying to coyly seduce a woman with a bullhorn,” he said.He also took some time to joke about Chris Christie’s recent defense of Trump: “Chris Christie cannot take a hint. How can I put this to you in a way that you’ll understand? The bridge to Trump’s heart is closed bro.”Finally, he spoke about Trump’s worrying interview with Bill O’Reilly where he defended Vladimir Putin, despite O’Reilly referring to him as a killer. “It sounds like he’s defending Putin because he’s about to get caught for the exact same thing,” he said.