By the end of the 19th century, many physicists believed there really wasn’t any more to learn about the workings of nature and the properties of matter and radiation. On balance, it might have been easier for everyone if things had stayed that way. Then we could just study Newton and Maxwell and all go home, too. Here’s a picture of an apple landing on Newton’s head.Things changed in 1900 when Max Planck proposed that the energy of electromagnetic radiation was proportional to its frequency. This is known as Planck’s constant which is a tiny number. Even smaller than one. This led Planck to conclude that the radiation had to be lumpy.Everyone ignored Planck – presumably because they couldn’t understand him – until Einstein realised that, in a photoelectric effect, high intensity light did not result in electrons being knocked free with more energy, just more electrons being knocked free. Wow! In 1909, Rutherford discovered that when alpha particles were fired at a thin gold foil, most of them passed through harmlessly. Only a few bounced back! This led him to conclude that ...Look, I’m sorry, this is pointless. You’re not really following a word of this, are you? Nor has the illustrator, who has just resorted to doodling people skiing and some pints of lager. I did try warning Ladybird that quantum mechanics is far too tricky to explain in 25 pages but they were insistent. And the money was quite good. That’s the Al-Khalili constant.Let’s try making things a bit simpler. Here are some quantum rules. Electrons can only fall to a lower orbit if there is enough space. Therefore, one electron has to wait till a photon has allowed another electron to jump to a higher orbit before it can go a bit lower. There is a long queue to switch orbits and electrons have been known to barge their way to the front rather than wait their turn. Naughty electrons! Actually scrub all that because, in 1921, Niels Bohr discovered that atoms weren’t like miniature solar systems and were more like clouds of fuzzy electron-ness.I’m touched you’re still with me. Really, I am. Most people would have given up. I’ll try to speed up. Here’s a drawing of Schrödinger without his cat thinking uncertainly about wave function – which Heisenberg turned into his Uncertainty Principle. This can be quite easily explained. Imagine a sentence that you can just about understand on its own. Now imagine another sentence following it that you can just about understand on its own. The uncertainty principle predicts that when you try to read a third sentence, you will almost certainly be uncertain about how it related to the previous two.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Quantum Mechanics: A Ladybird Expert Book by Jim Al-Khalili (Michael Joseph, £7.99) Photograph: PenguinI now want to talk about tunnelling. A quantum particle can travel in all sorts of directions. For instance, it can either go over a hill or through it. Sometimes it can do both things at the same time. That’s how the sun shines. Also, for every piece of matter, there is anti-matter and if they collide all hell breaks loose.We now come to a picture of Schrödinger with his cat. Poor old Snowy was shut in a state of quantum superposition inside a box with some radioactive material and managed to be both dead and alive at the same time. The only way of knowing which was the real state was by opening the box – which Schrödinger didn’t want to do because he would have been gutted if Snowy had died. As far as anyone knows, Snowy is still dead and alive inside his box.In the mid-1930s, quantum mechanics became even more quantum with the discovery of quarks, leptons and gauge bosons. Here’s a drawing of a spade going into the ground because the illustrator was having a nervous breakdown. Here’s something a bit spooky. Two separated particles can be connected, in that something that happens to one can simultaneously affect the other, even if it has to travel faster than the speed of light which isn’t really possible. One way of trying to think about this is through quantum electrodynamics, which states that empty space is never really empty. Rather, it’s like an empty car park that is full of cars.I could be writing any old nonsense by now and you wouldn’t be any the wiser. My editor certainly wasn’t and seemed to be under the impression this was another in the Ladybird parody series. So what does it all mean? Search me. One of the guiding precepts is that we can never know what is going in the quantum world when we are not looking. Or, as I’ve just proved, when we are.Digested read, digested: W = TF2.