In five wordsSpring, Summer, Oktoberfest, Autumn, WinterSound of the cityA beer garden in summertime: sitting together on benches under trees, laughing, having a beer and discussing the latest news. The sound is also is a synonym for Bavarian Gemuetlichkeit (cosiness), which is not a cliche but a way of life. This was recorded in a huge beer garden called Hofbräukeller in Haidhausen.Smell of the cityIn Westend there is the smell of beer, because of the the Augustiner brewery. During Oktoberfest the area around the Wiesn smells of candy floss and roasted almonds. And when you are passing the Müllersche Volksbad (the city’s art nouveau swimming pool, close to the river Isar) in winter, you can smell and feel the perfumed vapour of the sauna.Best building      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The sky’s the limit … the Olympic Stadium, Munich. Photograph: Monika SchreinerMost people would probably say the Town Hall or the Frauenkirche (Cathedral Church of Our Lady), which is the official landmark of the city – you can even buy biscuit cutters of this church in souvenir shops. But I think it was the Olympic Games in the 1970s that really transformed this city.The Olympic stadium was built on the Oberwiesenfeld, which lies outside the city centre in the Milbertshofen/Am Hart district. The architect Günter Behnisch, with Frei Otto called in as adviser, built it between 1969 and 1972, when there were hardly any computers and no special software for architects. Even now, it is still a very impressive structure, and continues to be used for special events like huge open-air concerts.And the worst ...      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   One of the stops on Munich’s ugly tour. Photograph: Monika ScreinerAt the moment there’s an ongoing discussion in the media about ugly spaces in Munich – there’s even a Munich ugly tour, which is given by Eugene Quinn in cooperation with Green City. But one building regularly makes me upset: the Kaufhof building. During the 70s, a nice historical building (Roman-Mayr-House) was torn down in order to erect this new department store – in an attempt to show how innovative they were back then. For me, it does not really fit in the square it calls home. Homegrown talent   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Young Chinese Dogs are just one of Munich’s great bands. Founded in 2011, they play folkpop music and, like street musicians, they only use easily portable instruments. This video, for their song Sweet Little Lies, shows many aspects of Munich city life – the Olympic park, Oktoberfest and the river Isar. Once in a while they play concerts in the city.What does Munich do better than anywhere else?River surfing. Munich offers some of Europe’s best waves, and during the summer you can see surfers transporting their boards on bikes through the city to the number one surfing spot: the Eisbach wave in the English Garden. The water comes from the river Isar.Street stylePeople like things casual here, but also very chic. Munich is said to be the most northern town of Italy – and that’s certainly true when it comes to fashion. Crazy sartorial experiments are seldom seen on these streets.How green is your city?The English garden and the Isar are the green lungs of the city – but other, less famous parks include the Westpark, Buga Parc and Luitpold Parc. Riding your bike to work is becoming more common, but there are still a lot of people who love their cars. Overall, though, Munich is a clean city. Like everywhere in Germany, waste separation is important, and for a while now department stores have been charging for plastic bags.Most under-rated location      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A temporary space that found a more permanent home … the Import Export. Photograph: Monika SchreinerI would say the Import Export. It started as a temporary project of the Münchner Kammerspiele, which is a very well known theatre in Munich. They transformed a Turkish vegetable shop into a cultural space back in 2010, with the aim of bringing Turkish and German culture together. It was situated not far from the main station, an area where a lot of Turkish people go shopping. Lectures, concerts, workshops for kids and exhibitions all took place there.In 2013 it moved to the Kreativquartier (creative quarter), an artist space close to the Olympic park, into a former locksmith shop. As the location itself is a little hidden, people really have to know about it to find it.Moment in historyThe wedding of the Crown Prince Ludwig and Princess Therese in October 1810: this was the moment the world’s largest beer festival was born. A horse race was held on the meadow just outside the city, now called the Theresienwiese, in honour of the bride. It eventually turned into Oktoberfest, and people living here call the festival Wiesn (an abbreviation of Theresienwiese, where it still takes place every year).Best InstagramMarc is a newspaper journalist who has his camera with him at all times. I like his sideways view of the city.Top insider’s tipYou might associate Munich with typical Bavarian dishes like Weisswürste or Schweinsbraten with Knödel – but you can also get really good coffee here. A very hip place, with its own roasting facility, is the coffee shop Man Versus Machine. Drinking filter coffee was not cool for a long time, but now there’s been a revival. Their filter coffee is prepared in three different ways: pour-over, syphon or aeropress. Try a Franzbrötchen (a cinnamon pastry) with your caffeine fix.Best local artist      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Blurred lines … the work of Gabi Blum. Photograph: Monika SchreinerI love the work of Gabi Blum. She is originally from Michelstadt/Odenwald, but attended the art academy here in Munich (Akademie der bildenden Künste München). One of her teachers was Schorsch Kamerun, a well-known German singer, author, director and club owner. Blum is a performance artist who also uses video for her installations. She cites references from modern pop culture and creates works that blur the lines between actor and spectator.Five to followMunich and the mountainsTwo in a rowTrikontMuenchenkulturIMBLOGFrom meMonika is a freelance photo editor, photographer and blogger in Munich. She writes about culture on her blog; you can follow her on Instagram here, and Twitter here.Follow Guardian Cities on Twitter and Facebook and join the discussion