Barty Brotherton-Ratcliffe, the proprietor of the fine pens and stationery shop, Bartrums, in Hay-on-Wye, has died suddenly aged 52. He was a dearly loved figure, treasured for his generosity and quiet, gentlemanly charm, and for his unique contribution to the making of the town. Over the past 25 years he designed and built the interiors of many of Hay’s most beautiful establishments, including Shepherds ice-cream parlour and the Blue Boar pub.Bartrums, established in 2014, was the realisation of a long-held dream and a passion for fountain pens that played to his twin loves of engineering and elegant design. His playful Mr B’s Law of Positive Retailing, written for his employees, is a masterpiece of courteous and professional best practice in every detail of shop management – and part of the reason why Bartrums was an immediate success with visitors to the Town of Books.Barty was born in Abbey Road, north-west London, to Edward, a restaurateur and cabinet-maker, and his wife, Victoria (nee Coleman), an artist. His parents divorced in 1968, and he and his sisters, Sophie and Gemma, moved to the Brecon Beacons and then to Hereford when his mother married Nicholas Keeble in 1976. While a design student at Birmingham Polytechnic, Barty was selected as a UK Young Designer of the Year.He moved to Hay in 1990 and set up Zebra Design, crafting bespoke kitchens, bookcases and shop fittings with a combination of exquisite taste and a fascination with practical engineering. He trained and nurtured a generation of artisan builders and craftsmen, working on hundreds of houses across Britain.Barty was an accomplished DJ, and a lover of motorbikes and boats – especially when lobster-catching in Cornwall. He loved fixing things that were broken; he was an endlessly kind man who encouraged friends and welcomed strangers; he brightened the lives of everyone who knew him and enriched the spirit of the town. That a man so loved should have taken his own life is confounding and inexpressibly sad.Barty met the love of his life, Kate Eves, when he installed a toy cupboard for the women’s refuge in Hereford, where she worked. They married in 1994 and built their life in Hay. He was a loving husband and father, fiercely proud of his four children, Wilf, Theo, Ned and Dorothy. He marvelled at their lives and achievements, telling stories about them and about Kate’s Hay bakery with awe and delight.He is survived by his wife and children.