Increasing interest in animal welfare means there are a range of options for where your ham comes from this Christmas. What should you look for if you want to tuck into a ham from an ethically raised pig?You’ll find hams from four main production systems on supermarket shelves this year: conventional, sow stall-free, free range and “outdoor bred, raised indoor on straw”. But what do these labels mean?Conventional hamsConventional hams come from pigs farmed in intensive systems, where sows (mother pigs) and piglets (the pigs that your Christmas ham comes from) are housed indoors.Piglets are weaned when they are about three or four weeks old. They are then housed in group pens on slatted or concrete floors (sometimes with straw or litter) until they are turned into ham and other pork products at about four months.Some of the main animal welfare issues in intensive pig farming relate to the confinement of mother pigs. During their pregnancy, they are housed in “sow stalls” which are about the length and width of a fully grown sow and allow little movement.Pigs are intelligent and social animals, and this confinement can cause stress and injury. There is evidence that other types of pig housing can also lead to stress and injury.Before giving birth, sows are moved to a farrowing crate, where they remain until their piglets are weaned. Farrowing crates are designed to prevent mother pigs crushing the piglets. The mother pig has just enough room to lie down, meaning that her movement is severely restricted.Sow stall-freeAbout 75% of pig production in Australia is now “sow stall-free”, after the pork industry introduced a voluntary phase-out of sow stalls. Coles brand pork products are sow stall-free, and Woolworths has committed to using stalls for less than 10% of the sow’s pregnancy (about 115 days).In some countries, including New Zealand, sow stalls have been totally or partially banned by law. They are also banned in the ACT.Confusingly, “sow stall-free” doesn’t mean that sows are free of all systems of confinement. Sows can spend up to five days in “mating stalls” after they have been mated (for Coles’ own brand products, it’s less than 24 hours). Sows are still housed in farrowing crates until their piglets are weaned.Are vegetarianism about not harming animals, or feeling morally superior? | Leslie Cannold for the Ethics Centre Free rangeThere are some free-range Christmas hams in the major supermarkets this year. However, just 5% of the Australian pig herd is free range.In free-range systems, such as the RSPCA-approved outdoor system and Australian pork certified free range, both sows and piglets live outside in paddocks. They have access to shelters, wallows and shade.Sows in these free-range systems aren’t confined in sow stalls or farrowing crates, and can behave naturally.Most large-scale free-range pig production takes place in the south of Western Australia, which has ideal soil, water and climate. Free-range pig farming is challenging in many parts of Australia, because of the hot climate.Pig farming can also have environmental impacts. These include soil and water degradation from nutrient overload in manure.You can buy free-range hams from farmers’ markets, specialist butchers and small-scale pig producers. When you buy at a farmers’ market, ask about how the pigs are raised and whether they are free range.Outdoor bredThere are a few hams around labelled “outdoor bred, raised indoors on straw”. These were labelled “bred free range” until the ACCC took action against some producers for misleading and deceptive conduct.Hams with this label come from production systems where the sows live outside. They live under free-range conditions and are not confined to sow stalls or farrowing crates.Piglets are born outside, but are moved inside after weaning and raised in group pens on straw or other litter before being butchered for products including Christmas hams.So what ham should I buy?You can vote for better animal welfare by buying the most ethical ham you can afford, whether that’s a sow stall-free one from one of the major supermarkets or a free-range one from a small-scale producer at a farmers’ market.Supermarkets are setting higher animal welfare standards for their own-brand pork after increasing customer interest. These higher standards have the potential to influence new Australian animal welfare standards and guidelines for pigs, which are likely to be developed in the next few years.Up to two-thirds of processed pork (including ham and bacon) is imported as boneless frozen pork. If you want to buy an Australian ham, look for ham on the bone, a label such as “Made from 100% Australian pork”, or the square pink “Australian Pork” label.If you’re looking for an ethical ham that also scores on taste, check out the Good Food Christmas ham taste test. Seven of the top 10 hams were from free-range pigs.• Rachel Carey is a research fellow, Christine Parker is a professor of law, and Gyorgy Scrinis is a lecturer in food politics and policy at the University of Melbourne. This article was originally published on the Conversation, part of the Guardian Comment Network