Broadchurch 9pm, ITVAfter Ed’s somewhat one-sided punch-up with Jim Atwood at his garage, Hardy and Miller are keen to have a chat with him about his propensity towards outbursts of violence – and what that might have to do with Trish’s attack. Detective Constable Harford chooses this moment to drop a bombshell of her own, which could be potentially disastrous for the case. Meanwhile, now Mark has found Joe Miller, he has his own choices to make, all equally devastating. Ben ArnoldMarine Le Pen: Who’s Funding France’s Far Right? – Panorama 8.30pm, BBC1The French presidential election in April has taken on ominous significance in the context of gains by reactionary, rightwing figures all over the world. But could Front National candidate Marine Le Pen be undermined by matters more financial than political? Gabriel Gatehouse’s film explores the FN’s funding, meeting fixers and insiders and probing some of the party’s more controversial donors. Phil HarrisonChild of Our Time 9pm, BBC1Update of the project the BBC began in 2000, to film 25 Britons born at the dawn of the 21st century. As keen mathematicians will have surmised, the subjects are now 16. The scientific explanations of growing up furnished by Tanya Byron and Robert Winston are interesting, but less so than the developing personalities of the kids: having been chosen by producers who can’t have known how they’d turn out, it’s much more real than most “reality” television. Andrew MuellerAmazing Hotels: Life Beyond the Lobby 9pm, BBC2Giles Coren and Monica Galetti undertake international internships at another fancy hotel, taking their timesheets to Ecuador’s Mashpi Lodge, a hotel offering five-star service amid the Andean cloud forest’s flora and fauna. With the lodge an iguana’s eyelash from the canopy, the Sisyphean task of keeping moisture away is Giles’s job for the duration, while Monica chances her hand at assembling a slightly disturbing local delicacy. Mark Gibbings-JonesRoof Racks and Hatchbacks: The Family Car 9pm, BBC4The smells of hot leather seats and discarded Penguin wrappers; the sounds of Queen on the tape deck and repeated demands to pull over for a wee break; the waves of nausea after drinking too much fizzy orange on the M4 … Grace Dent explores the experience of the British family car journey – and how manufacturers from Morris to Ford have tried to make it more attractive – in this jolly Proustian rush of a documentary. Ali CaterrallOutcast 10pm, FoxThe series devised by The Walking Dead creator Robert Kirkman returns for a second season as The Walking Dead’s seventh run concludes. Reluctant spirit medium Kyle Barnes is still trembling in the aftermath of last season’s climax, in which ceilings were splurged in black ectoplasmic vomit. Tonight, we learn more about the mystery of Rome’s supernatural manifestations, with Kyle trying to protect his loved ones as he is plagued by more possessions. David StubbsHarlots 10pm, ITV EncoreEpisode two of a drama that hopes it can get away with presenting Georgian London’s prostitutes as viciously exploited victims of an extreme but still recognisable patriarchy, while at the same time not putting off viewers who find the boobs, bums and perhaps even the exploitation itself a turn-on. It helps that this difficult sell has Samantha Morton and Lesley Manville driving the action as rival madams: tonight, Margaret spots a fresh chance to ruin Lydia’s reputation. Jack SealeFilm choiceCrouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon (Ang Lee, 2000) 4pm, Sony Movie ChannelAng Lee’s foray into martial arts set new standards of balletic grace, furious action and jaw-dropping beauty.In a mythic Chinese past, heroic warriors Chow Yun-Fat and Michelle Yeo fight to keep the Sword of Destiny out of evil hands. The special effects – in a tavern brawl, a rooftop chase and an extraordinary treetop swordfight – are mesmerising, but it’s also a richly evocative exploration of love, loyalty and friendship.The Joneses (Derrick Borte, 2009) 1.40am, Film4Keeping up with new neighbours the Joneses is hard going for the denizens of their wealthy suburb. Steve and Kate Jones (David Duchovny and Demi Moore) are a perfect, highly successful couple, and their kids (Amber Heard, Ben Hollingsworth) are the quintessence of high-school cool. Fortunately, they harbour a dark and droll secret in this enjoyable satire on US materialism.Live sportCycling: Basque Tour 2.30pm, Eurosport 1. The opening stage of the road race.Weightlifting European Championships 7pm, Eurosport 2. The women’s 58kg class, held in Split, Croatia.National League Football: Lincoln City v Dagenham & Redbridge 7.15pm, BT Sport 1. Coverage of the National League clash at Sincil Bank as Cup heroes Lincoln get back to normal.