Age …Age? Hello, sir, and how are you today?Um … I’m fine, but … That’s wonderful. It really is a lovely day, isn’t it?It’s OK. I’m calling because there’s been an exciting development in the world of telecoms that you should be aware of. May I ask how often you use the telephone?I don’t know. Look, I’m in the middle of Bargain Hunt, can you just tell me what this is about? Of course, sir. It can be very frustrating when people don’t get to the point, can’t it?Yes it can. So please do. Last year the UK government changed the rules regarding nuisance callers, allowing the Information Commissioner to punish them without proving that they had caused “substantial damage or substantial distress”.OK. Now the UK government has gone further by banning firms from concealing their phone number when they make such calls.Quite right. It is excellent news, isn’t it? The new rules come into effect on 16 May. “Nuisance calls are incredibly intrusive and can cause significant harm to elderly and vulnerable members of society,” says Baroness Neville-Rolfe, the minister for intellectual property.There’s a minister for intellectual property? I can confirm that, yes. She says the government is “committed to tackling this problem”.Is there a secretary of state for deja vu? I don’t have that information I’m afraid, sir, but I’ll be sure to look it up. It would be very interesting to know.Yeah, whatever. So cold calling’s days are numbered! Unfortunately not, sir.Eh? These rules cover British and foreign call centres, but only if they’re working for companies registered in the UK. People can still be cold-called, but they’ll see an unfamiliar phone number instead of a withheld one.Which may still worry some people? If they even have caller display? That’s right, sir. You understand this well. The new rule will make it easier to report rogue firms, though, provided they obey it.Isn’t that like stopping burglary by telling burglars to wear brightly coloured jackets with their names on? Haha! That’s an excellent analogy, sir! Sir? Sir?Do say: I won’t be buying today. Please don’t call this number again.Don’t say: No, I want to sell you something! Buy my toaster! Go on, buy it!