Sunflower Bean, On tourMany bands get drawn into the grungey quiet-loud dynamic now and then. Interestingly, Sunflower Bean’s material so far suggests a more deep-seated and impressive fluctuation between cute and mean. Certainly, the Brooklyn trio excel at a decent noise blowout. Interestingly, though, they don’t see volume as obligatory and can transfer their skills into less explicitly cathartic indie rock, the likes of recent single Wall Watcher characterised by a slightly troubling quirkiness. That said, given their past heaviness, there’s also a tension in knowing that the mask of civility could slip at any moment.Sneaky Pete’s, Edinburgh, Mon; Soup Kitchen, Manchester, Tue; The Dome, NW5, Thu; Bleach, Brighton, Fri JRFoals, On tourThere’s a Jekyll and Hyde quality to Foals. On the surface, they remain makers of the precision-engineered math-rock/Afrobeat/disco hybrid they patented around 2010, which nods as much to Nile Rodgers as it does to, say, Battles. As their career has developed, however, a heavier, hairier and more untamed side has burst through; last year’s What Went Down often sounds like a cross between Muse and Hawkwind, a spectacular intergalactic headbang. Live, it transpires in much the same way: frontman Yannis Philippakis beginning shows with his inner rock star under control, but ending in very noisy disorder.Manchester Arena, Sat; Motion, Bristol, Sun; SSE Arena, Wembley, Mon; Barclaycard Arena, Birmingham, Fri; touring to 20 FebJR White Denim, On tour      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   White Denim. Photograph: Mark SeligerProducers, multi-instrumentalists, collectors: White Denim know a lot about rocking. Interestingly, though, the depth of the Austin, Texas band’s immersion and scholarship hasn’t resulted in anything remotely brown and boring, but instead in an irreverent and thrilling guitar racket. Since their formation in 2006, they have tried pretty much everything, from frenetic future garage to modal southern rock and progressive punk, only occasionally flirting with notions of good taste (initial sessions for their last album Corsicana Lemonade saw them collaborate with Wilco’s Jeff Tweedy). On their latest album, Stiff, James Petralli, Jeffrey Olson, Steve Terebecki and Jonathan Horne fly out of the gate, their virtuosity tempered by strong attitude. Live, too, their manner is engaging, the instrument swapping indicative less of a desire to flaunt their chops than a mania for keeping things interesting.Colston Hall, Bristol, Sat; The Deaf Institute, Manchester, Mon; Islington Assembly Hall, N1, Tue JRElectric Spring, HuddersfieldA free festival spread over five days at the University of Huddersfield, Electric Spring operates somewhere in the awkward margins of academia and electronic music, but don’t let that put you off. Highlights include Chris Mercer’s virtual orchestra, made on the spot by sampling a live violinist (20 Feb); and a performance in which recordings of Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan’s Sufi devotional music are reinterpreted by Birmingham’s BEAST collective (21 Feb). On the first night, Québécois sound artist Marcelle Deschênes performs, along with the UBC laptop ensemble; the following night hosts Sébastien Roux’s series of “translations” of Sol LeWitt’s graphical wall drawings; while on Friday, trio Bark! perform their twanging, clattering, digitally textured improv, before real-world sounds are funnelled through an installation by Flora Könemann.University Of Huddersfield, Wed to 21 FebJAJazz At Lincoln Center Orchestra, London      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Wynton Marsalis Band. Photograph: Frank StewartThe 82-year-old saxophonist and composer Wayne Shorter remains one of jazz music’s most respected living practitioners, and Wynton Marsalis is as close to being a household name as jazz artists get; so a gig jointly fronted by both of them is a big deal. Trumpeter Marsalis and his Jazz At Lincoln Center Orchestra return to the Barbican for a three-night run that begins on Thursday with this collaboration, presenting new arrangements of classic Shorter pieces, with the composer himself as guest soloist. Shorter has written some of the most affecting yet tantalisingly enigmatic jazz themes of the past half century, drawn from intensely personal conceptions of melody and rhythm. He’s still an unpredictable improviser, and unlikely to be content with simply leafing through his songbook. The subsequent gigs see Marsalis curating a showcase for UK youth bands, and interpreting the George Gershwin songbook on the final night.Barbican Hall, EC2, Thu to 20 FebJFFigaro Forever, CardiffEver since he became Welsh National Opera’s artistic director in 2011, David Pountney has given a thematic shape to each of the company’s autumn, spring and summer programmes. Previous seasons have included The Tudors, Fallen Women and A Terrible Innocence, with this latest doing exactly what it says on the tin. Figaro Forever is devoted to new productions of three operas based on the plays that Beaumarchais built around the character of the roguish Sevillian barber. Two of them are, of course, among the most famous operas ever written – Rossini’s The Barber Of Seville (Sat to 8 Apr), which Sam Brown will direct, and Mozart’s The Marriage Of Figaro (Thu to 9 Apr), staged by Tobias Richter. But the third is brand new: Elena Langer’s Figaro Gets A Divorce (21 Feb to 7 Apr) imagines what happens when Figaro and Susanna’s marriage hits the rocks; Pountney has written the libretto and also directs.Wales Millennium Centre; touring to 9 AprAC