On the map two words lie in a flat-calm place. They cutlass-hook a drifting eye with an unlikely promise: Adventurers’ Land. Adventure means something different in fenland.The 17th century investors who suggested draining this wetland for agriculture were called adventurers. It could have been worse: those who did the draining were called undertakers. Scallywag names nearby suggest maybe the darker word should have won. Rogue’s Alley, Hook Drove, Bleak House.That map, though – unlike maps showing uplands threaded thick with contours, here they’re rare, like cast lines, left to drift formlessly on the fen. In Adventurers’ Land – actually now an SSSI, a site of about 25 acres, between Wisbech and Peterborough – the sole contour is a statement of nothing: 0. A spot height reads minus 1. In terms of elevation this place either isn’t here, or is less than here.It is interesting, however. It acts as a natural gauge for sea level rise and fall in ancient times. When levels rose, this place was swamped into a delta; when they fell, it reappeared coated in signature sediment. Cut the peat and these layers speak: transgression, regression, rise, fall. Flooding to give Fenland back to nature But the real adventure here is an exercise in perception, a study in what happens to you when the landscape suddenly drops and spreads. The spaciousness is total and you can sense the world brighten by an extra few degrees of sky. Everything is straight. Field edges, ploughs, roads, dykes, below a horizon as flat as a planed edge. It’s all about the sky here.This day it’s a chaos of clouds after April rain. The size of the sky is disorienting. The horizon seems nauseatingly low, like the view from a plane, but from my feet. Every unconformity is noticed, like a ripple through still. Trees and farmhouses pronounce like ships. A three-metre dyke bank is like a hillside. It’s the inverse of a hemmed glen. And it makes land with even a slight roll feel mighty in comparison.Perhaps the land itself is an adventurer. A transient place between land and sea that waits, contoured deep like a tipped hat. The grave of the undertakers, to be filled again, one day. 