Early this morning, the news came in that Adnan Syed – the “subject” of the first Serial (nobody can call him the hero, though plainly that is how he is seen) – had been granted a retrial. Legally, this has more significance than it first seems. As his lawyer explained: “The conviction is erased. It’s gone. As of this day, he’s not convicted any more.”Adnan Syed, subject of Serial podcast, granted a new trial This doesn’t mean the state won’t fight the case that Syed murdered his former girlfriend, Hae Min Lee. But Judge Martin Welch has, by the exigencies of the law, said something larger than “What the – what the fuck?” (to use the memorable analysis of series creator Sarah Koenig in one episode). The Baltimore judge has said categorically that the original guilty verdict, handed down 16 years ago, lacked foundation. Devotees of the first series of Serial will, whatever their reservations, unite in celebration. We will not – all 80 million of us – have the same interpretations of the characters in Serial, nor even all think that Adnan was innocent. But the consensus must surely be unanimous that the evidence used to convict him wasn’t enough. The only way to accept the guilty verdict would be if you were of an authoritarian bent, inclined to believe that police and other professionals had instincts, knowledge, insights, evidence, that they wouldn’t necessarily make public. If you were of that view, the podcast would hold no interest for you: its magnetism came from the fact that it described a miscarriage of justice.Yet it was profoundly atypical of miscarriage-of-justice reporting, which usually takes its energy from the trenchant, pioneering conviction that the subject is innocent. This is what made Serial so groundbreaking and Koenig herself so human, and I think it was its originality and everywoman universalism that initially lifted it heads above its true crime genre (though other things kept it there).       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘What the?’ … Sarah Koenig Photograph: Boston Globe/Boston Globe via Getty ImagesYou never get the sense that Koenig is playing you, drawing out the uncertainty for a punchline or a cliffhanger. She genuinely doesn’t know. This gives her the deep credibility of the open mind, and invites you into a puzzle that is more subtle, more delicate and ultimately more engrossing than the usual true crime fare – did Adnan Syed murder Hae Min Lee? Instead, the question is: “Can we, based on what we know, say for certain that Adnan Syed is a murderer?” This makes it more listenable, in many ways, even though ultimately it means that our desire for resolution cannot be met: the bald and brutal act of killing is an alienating thing, while the question of whether or not we can know what we think we know demands the attention and even participation of the citizen detective.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Adnan Syed when he was 16 years old and playing varsity football. Photograph: Jonathan Hanson/Syed familyIt came as no surprise that the podcast spawned many hours of further investigation by listeners. There is, beneath all of that (spoiler alert, though arguably you can’t spoil a thing with no answers) a whodunnit: if Syed is telling the truth, then Jay Wilds, a key witness, is lying. The programme never went hard after Wilds, for the very good reason that just flying the kite of Syed’s innocence implicates Wilds in something larger than perjury, and even that is a large charge for a journalist to make.The testimony of lawyer Deirdre Enright, from the Innocence Project, was compelling: it introduced a formality into what was otherwise a series of interviews in which a group of almost-witnesses nearly-but-didn’t-quite remember things. Enright described the weakness of the case from a legal point of view: Syed’s palm print on a map in a friend’s car that couldn’t be time-stamped; records of a cell-phone tower which the phone company explicitly warned were not reliable. All these circumstantial nuggets might function as a garnish to the meat of a prosecution, but when they were the meat, it was pretty thin pickings. True-crime stories: a centuries-old craze from Ben Franklin to Making a Murderer However, the distinctive and memorable elements of Serial were the details that a court wouldn’t accept, and wouldn’t even go looking for. Syed was charming, believable – indeed, more than believable, impossible to credit as a cold-blooded murderer. When he says he wished he had committed the crime, because it would be easier for his parents to cope with having lost him for a reason, the pathos is unbearable. The track record of his lawyer, Cristina Gutierrez, long-deceased, was chilling: she also, apparently through carelessness, lost the defence of a 15-year-old who had shot his own brother, leaving the parents bankrupt and functionally childless. That texture was part of what made a retrial for Syed seem unlikely: Serial was an emotional more than factual experience, and it always seemed far-fetched that emotions, even millions of them, would ever lead a court to reconsider its decision.The true chemistry of Syed’s story remains a mystery even to the programme-makers, since they didn’t manage to recreate anything like it for Serial 2 (even though that was accomplished enough). But if the announcement of the retrial was initially surprising, it swiftly seemed inevitable. Koenig took her insistent splashes of doubt and turned them into an ocean.