A blizzard brought New York to a near standstill this weekend. Cars were ordered off the roads. Aboveground train service was suspended. Broadway shows were cancelled.Yet inside the New York Hilton in midtown, the show went on.BroadwayCon, a gathering of theatre lovers from across the world, kicked off Friday and continued as planned through the weekend despite the extreme weather. As the crowds outside cheered after rescuing cars from snow banks, crowds inside cheered some of the biggest Broadway stars as they took the stage – from Lin-Manuel Miranda, creator and star of Hamilton, to Anthony Rapp, an original cast member of Rent and co-creator of BroadwayCon.A combination of a theatre camp, fan convention and sleepover, the event was a passionate love affair between Broadway stars and their fans. And with a majority of the attendees being younger than 30, it proved once and for all that theatre is not just for the old and wealthy. While BroadwayCon attendees poured their love for theatre into each round of applause and the hours they have spent lining up for autographs, the theatre stars gave it all back in all the praises they sang of their audiences, especially the younger ones.“You always hear that Broadway audiences are middle-aged and older and have money and whatever. But there are so many young people at our stage door, who are ... ” Judy Kuhn, who plays Helen in Fun Home, began saying before she was interrupted by loud cheers from the audience. “They are passionate about the theatre. I love it. It’s fantastic.”“Stage door is like the second act,” added Emily Skeggs, who plays “middle” Alison in the show. “People have such a visceral reaction to the show, they just want to talk about it.”Skeggs said that her conversations at the stage door with young people about how the show has affected them were a powerful motivation. “That’s what makes me want to do the show, over, and over, and over again – knowing that it’s affecting people in that positive way. It’s like rocket fuel.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The cast and creative team for Fun Home at the 2015 Tony Awards at Radio City Music Hall. Photograph: Theo Wargo/(Credit too long, see caption)Being on Broadway is the only job where at the end of the workday you have people waiting to tell you sweet things, said Christian Borle, who plays the bard William Shakespeare in Something Rotten!. That would not happen if you were an accountant.His co-star John Cariani, who plays Nigel Bottom, said he just recently had a memorable run-in with a fan, although this one was a bit older. I was leaving the theatre and a man yells from the cab and he said: ‘John, John!’ I ran over to the cab and I didn’t know who it was. And he said: ‘I want you to know that that was a beautiful show and a beautiful performance. And please tell Brian, I didn’t get a chance to see him – that it was really, really astonishing and funny and I am just so impressed.’ And then he rolled up the window and left.Cariani stood in the street confused, until a stranger approached him and told him the man in the car was Nathan Lane. As the audience at the panel laughed, Brian d’Arcy James, who plays Nick Bottom, revealed that Cariani never did deliver the message.“This is the first time I am hearing about it,” said D’Arcy James. “Thank you, BroadwayCon.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Brian D’Arcy James, left, and Christian Borle during a performance of Something Rotten in New York. Photograph: Joan Marcus/APMore than once the stars at BroadwayCon reminded the audience that they, too, are fans of other stars and productions.Denée Benton, who will make her Broadway debut as Natasha in the new musical Natasha, Pierre and The Great Comet of 1812 this spring, admitted that she used to have huge Broadway dreams as a child.“Yes, I was just saying when Anthony Rapp was up here, that I would have died [to be on the same stage]. I wish this all existed when I was 12,” Benton said.“It’s great. It’s long overdue,” Arielle Cheifetz, a 23-year-old attendee, said of BroadwayCon. According to her, Broadway is much different than TV and film. “You can see they are real people and they are more than happy to chat with you.”Cheifetz grew up in New Jersey and now lives in New York. On Sunday, minutes before the final BroadwayCon performance, she sat on the floor, reading Peter and Starcatcher, which opened on Broadway in 2012. Her tote bag was emblazoned with the words “theater geek”.As young people lined outside the main ballroom for the final performance, Cheifetz dismissed the stereotype that Broadway is just for the middle-aged people with money to spend on the tickets, which often cost a couple of hundred dollars each.“It’s not true. All weekend you saw speakers up there saying: ‘I wish this was a thing when I was 12, 14. When I was 16’,” she said.Cheifetz attended all three days of BroadwayCon and said the snow only added to the camaraderie of the event. “Oh, we are all snowed in? I guess we are all having a sleepover party!”The shows up and down Broadway might have closed their doors on Saturday, heeding New York Mayor Bill de Blasio’s advice, but at BroadwayCon, the show went on. Plans for the evening included karaoke and late-night cabaret that went as late as 1am.“I was ready to sleep in the hallway,” said Cheifetz, who ended up taking a train home at 2am instead. Hours later, however, she was back for the final day of BroadwayCon. Adina Halperin, 21, also braved the blizzard to attend the event on both Saturday and Sunday. Currently studying stage management at Marymount College in New York, Halperin attends theatre about once every three weeks.The blizzard, she said, “created more of a fun atmosphere”.Among young BroadwayCon-goers were those dressed like King George, Matilda, and Elsa from Frozen. Some attendees were still in high school or younger and were attending the event with their parents. It was less a conference and more a theatre camp, where breaking out into a dance or a song is nothing out of ordinary.As snow continued to fall on Saturday afternoon, just shortly after de Blasio and the governor ordered everyone off the roads, one attendee crooned Baby, It’s Cold Outside in the hallway.When Rapp took the stage for the last time on Sunday, he thanked the staff, volunteers and attendees for their hard work patience, “especially with all the craziness we went through with the snow”.“You guys have been unbelievably patient and joyful and this is exactly what we hoped it would be,” he said. And as the cheers went up, he said the one thing that everyone was dying to know: “I promise you that we will be back next year.”