Barack Obama revealed his annual holiday reading list this week, at last solving the mystery of who is the one remaining person on earth who still hasn’t read The Girl on the Train. Along with Paula Hawkins’ novel, he is taking Helen Macdonald’s memoir H Is for Hawk; the Pulitzer prize-winning book about surfing, Barbarian Days; The Underground Railroad, a fictionalised history by Colson Whitehead; and the sci-fi novel Seveneves, to Martha’s Vineyard.Obama’s holiday picks are always guaranteed a sales boost, but he is not the first president to enjoy a good book. According to the policy adviser Karl Rove, he and George W Bush had an annual reading competition, averaging about two books a week, with Bush’s taste extending from political biographies (he read 14 of Lincoln alone while he was in the White House) to fiction (including Camus’ The Stranger) to YA (Ana’s Story, co-written by his daughter Jenna). The bigger reader, though, was Laura Bush, a former school librarian, whose life is itself fictionalised in Curtis Sittenfeld’s American Wife.Both Clintons’ reading lists show that they are fans of Maya Angelou, but while Bill counts Hillary’s Living History among his favourite political books, Hillary names George W Bush’s Decision Points as hers. When he was elected president, Bill Clinton overruled a travel ban on Gabriel García Márquez, whose novel One Hundred Years of Solitude he had loved since law school, and the two became friends. But, Clinton confessed, really he was addicted to mysteries.According to Tevi Troy, the author of What Jefferson Read, Ike Watched, and Obama Tweeted: 200 Years of Popular Culture in the White House, Richard Nixon and George HW Bush were big fans of Tolstoy; JFK was mad about Bond; and Ronald Reagan loved westerns. But his recommendation (“a perfect yarn”) was partly responsible for making Tom Clancy’s The Hunt for Red October a bestseller.Unfortunately for the bookselling industry, Donald Trump has no time to read. “I never have,” he has said. But a US publisher is currently putting together a short-story collection about the Republican nominee. “Writers should submit stories ranging from depictions of his absurdity to the impact of his politics on the disenfranchised, our international friends, and world peace,” requests itsalltrumpedup.com. The deadline for submissions is 31 August.