I didn’t know we were different until I started school. On the day of the Christmas party my dad took me and my brother and sister home, so we missed the party. My frantic questions were answered with a quiet “We don’t celebrate Christmas.” Next day everyone brought their toys from the party to school and I asked my friend if I could play with her and her lovely little dolls’ house but she refused and I sat miserably alone and desolate, while my teacher tried to cheer me up. Years later my mum told me that the teacher offered to bring our gifts round but my parents had to refuse in case they got into trouble.The trouble would have come from the Free Presbyterian Church of Scotland where my dad was a minister. Every move was scrutinised and accepting Christmas presents could have put his job in jeopardy. My cousins at another school accepted Christmas gifts even though they weren’t at the party, but their minister ordered their parents to return them, which they did.Many people suffer from Sunday blues, dreading the thought of work on Mondays. I adore Sundays, ridiculously happy at being free to do as I please because I grew up dreading Sundays, which were a misery. No work was done on the Sabbath and shopping, television, sport and even going for a walk were all banned, with the day spent going to church, eating vast amounts of food and reading religious books or the Bible. We would make bets about which “perversion”, such as homosexuality or living in sin, would feature in the sermons As a small child, the restrictions and obsessions of the faith only upset me through incidents such as the Christmas party, endless church services and the stifling Sundays. I was loved and secure and part of a large close family but, as we grew older, my four siblings and I constantly questioned the religion we lived by. We listened to ministers thundering from the pulpit, with Catholics in particular coming in for abuse and the Pope regularly described both verbally and in the church magazines as the antichrist.The range of potential sins meant we were banned from dancing, the cinema, music, Guides, Scouts, sport and youth clubs as practically anything was considered potentially wicked. Family worship was mandatory, morning and night, and consisted of singing a psalm, reading the Bible and praying on our knees. This could never be missed, though it was actually a minor routine compared to Sundays.Sunday mode started on Saturday evening, which had a serious impact on our already limited social life as teenagers. The morning service lasted at least 90 minutes and we sat to sing and stood for prayers, just to be different from those pesky Catholics. There were no musical instruments and psalms were led, while prayers were extempore and interminable with some church members rambling on for 20 minutes minimum. We spent the afternoon reading religious books or learning the catechism, gazing longingly out of the window as our friends played outside. After an hour-long evening service we headed thankfully to bed, but it was never easy to sleep after so little exercise. We took turns to get up at 6.30 on Monday mornings to wash all the Sunday dishes, a truly horrible start to the week.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Joan with her parents, brother and sisters. Photograph: Courtesy Joan McFaddenThat paled in comparison to the communion services twice a year. One or two other ministers stayed with us to lead services, which began on Thursday, with two a day till Monday, which had one final morning service. Evening service on Saturday was followed by an open invitation to dinner at the manse, a custom started in the days when people travelled miles to worship and needed sustenance. Mum was a nurse but she was expected to take her holidays at communion time so she could cater adequately for visiting ministers and congregation.My sisters, brother and I handed round groaning plates of food and listened to the criticism of anyone deemed not a true Christian. We dreaded the three-hour Sunday communion service with its hell and damnation sermons, but also choked with suppressed laughter over “Dancing is doing standing up what you’d like to be doing lying down” and “Denim is the devil’s material, making men and women the same.”We would make bets about which “perversion”, such as homosexuality or living in sin, would feature in each minister’s sermon and were amused by one lengthy rant about the “so called Christian Cliff Richard dancing with half-naked women”.One summer there was a popular Scripture Union camp which welcomed teenagers of all faiths and we all had two days of glorious fun before the edict came down from the church. FP teenagers were to stay away from this unacceptable approach to religion, which encouraged the use of guitars and had too much emphasis on enjoyment with no mention of eternal damnation. Any argument or attempt to discuss issues like this was slapped down firmly. Women and girls must cover their heads in church, grow their hair long and are forbidden to wear trousers or makeup The Free Presbyterian faith is led by men – women have no official role within the church and promise to obey their husbands in the wedding vows. At funerals, the coffin isn’t taken into church in case people are tempted to worship it and the person who died is rarely mentioned, with the grieving congregation being told to repent or burn in the fires of hell. Women and girls must cover their heads in church, grow their hair long and are forbidden to wear trousers or makeup.Life outside church was hard because we just wanted to do what our friends did. Teenagers naturally rebel, but we were very careful because Dad could have lost his job if we had gone to village dances, the school disco or cinema, though he got into plenty of trouble by himself, for the most bizarre reasons. He taught religious education at local primary schools and the church demanded his salary in return, which he refused to hand over. Worst of all was when a friend gave Dad her old piano. He happily took lessons and played psalms to a neighbouring FP minister who reported him and he was ordered to get rid of the piano, a frivolous instrument which apparently got in the way of doing the Lord’s work.Religion is often an accident of birth and even as a teenager I was convinced my parents were in the wrong faith, as neither fitted easily into the FP mindset. We were all in our teens when a friend of Dad’s got into trouble from the church for attending two colleagues’ funerals in chapel and that was the final straw for my parents, who left the FPs and joined the Church of Scotland. Although it was a very hard decision for them, they wished they’d done it earlier for our sakes, but the five of us are surprisingly normal.I keep restrictions on my own four children to a minimum and actually listen to them, though I have a lasting distrust of anyone who thrusts their religion on others and if in the mood for church will happily worship anywhere. Pascal’s wager would be the best description of my current state of faith. Interestingly, when I left home the wildest parties I went to were those thrown by FP ministers’ children and as for the Catholics – reader, I married one.