America is a place that fascinates and frustrates me in equal measure. In my late teens, I found myself in New York, surrounded by the sights and sounds of a city I had seen in movies and heard dissected in the music that defined my formative years. To go from taking tourist photos of Times Square to reporting from Chicago as gun violence spirals out of control was a dramatic change.How Reggie Yates went from kids’ TV to confronting neo-Nazis The US’s third city and Barack Obama’s adopted hometown, Chicago is affectionately known as the Windy City. More popular and more apt, however, is its new moniker: Chiraq. In 2015, eight African Americans were killed by police officers in the city, out of 306 across the US. Meanwhile, black-on-black violence there has reached an all-time high. There were almost 2,500 such shootings last year, of which 350 were fatal. As a black kid growing up in north London, Chicago was on my radar solely as home to some of my biggest heroes: Oprah, Common, Kanye West, Michael Jordan. Today, I could think of it as a war zone.Shocked to hear that someone is shot in Chicago on average every two hours, I set out to front a documentary unpacking what is happening there and what activists, victims and police officers think are the causes. I started my journey at the monthly police review board, which acts as an open forum and chance for local citizens to air their grievances. The room was charged with emotion, as deeply personal accounts of misconduct and police violence were raised.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Reggie Yates out with Chicago’s police force. Photograph: Becky Read/BBC/Sundog PicturesCatharine Brown, a preacher and volunteer working with the police to improve community relations, relayed her story. Driving home, she had been chased down by a police car and threatened with guns; her children were sprayed with Mace, and she was dragged across the hood of a parked car before her clothes were beaten off her body.I hadn’t prepared myself emotionally for what I found in that room. It was a stark reminder that the people suffering from police brutality in the US look just like my grandmother, mother, brothers and sisters.Growing up in London, I didn’t have the best relationship with the police. Not because I have a criminal background, but – and I loathe writing these words – because of my race. Racial profiling is a reality that so many refuse to acknowledge, but for minorities, particularly in our bigger cities, it’s a reality we have to live with every day. The attitudes towards systemic racism and authority in Chicago didn’t feel a million miles away from my experiences in the UK.The Counted: the definitive map of US police killings in 2015 No solutions have come from the review board, according to Jamal, a local activist. African Americans account for a third of the city’s 3 million residents, mainly living in the south and west areas, which happen to have the highest levels of poverty. Jamal describes those areas as resembling a third-world country. “When you live in it so long, there is no hope,” he says.Cries of “We want justice” rang out as the group of locals left. Apart from the police and media, the people at the meeting were almost entirely those who had been personally affected. They weren’t “weekend warriors”. As Chicago struggles to cope with the carnage, questions of responsibility are constantly asked. Talking to the daughter of a murdered white police officer, it became increasingly obvious that the lines are clearly drawn. Everybody feels as if they’re the victim, but not enough people are asking: what role do I play in the problem?• Reggie Yates: Life and Death in Chicago is on BBC1 tonight at 9pm, and available on iPlayer now.