Until this year’s Edinburgh fringe, where comedians grappled on stage with personal trauma as never before, scepticism was rife about the so-called “dead dad” show. Meat-and-potatoes comics used the phrase to cat-call standups who made self-consciously emotional shows with cathartic last acts, implying that these were cynical gestures to woo critics and highbrow fringe audiences. That performances with a narrative arc, about death and emotion, were in some way contrary to the spirit of pure standup.Cariad Lloyd acknowledges that tendency in the intro to her new podcast, entitled Griefcast, in which comedians talk about death. “It’s not that easy to talk about death,” she says, “but it does help if you’ve chosen a career designed to hide your true feelings about anything emotional.” Is that a workable definition of standup comedy? I’m not sure. It’s certainly interesting that Lloyd, herself a terrific comic and improviser, has chosen to conduct these chats only with her professional peers – Sara Pascoe and Adam Buxton (so far) among them. Her reasons aren’t fully explained, but she does now and then suggest that grief as experienced by comics (her father died when she was in her teens) is a particular thing. Comedians, she suggests, are by inclination avoiders, displacers, even trivialisers, uniquely ill-equipped to stare into the abyss that bereavement opens up.Listen to Sara Pascoe on Cariad Lloyd’s GriefcastMaybe there’s something in that; perhaps that’s why the supposed glut of “dead dad” shows (which was always greatly exaggerated) raised hackles among purist comics – who felt that grief was not a clown’s business. In fact, few of those shows addressed grief head-on. Considering the phenomenon, I remembered with a jolt that the show that (in my mind) always seems to best represent it, Des Bishop’s extraordinary My Dad Was Nearly James Bond, was created while Bishop’s dad was still alive. (He even came on stage for the curtain call.) Michael Bishop died between the show’s Edinburgh debut and its London transfer. Not only was it not about grief, but the show became a “dead dad” exemplar only by circumstance.John-Luke Roberts at Edinburgh festival review – filial rage fires up grotesque tribute Russell Kane was another comic to parlay his dad’s demise into comedy – literally, in that the death of Kane Sr was the precondition for his son’s standup career. But Kane, too, discussed his dad’s (macho, narrow-minded) life on stage rather than his death. I can’t speak for two of the other standout examples: I didn’t see Mark Thomas’s Bravo Figaro or Jason (Hebburn) Cook’s Joy. Sean Hughes’s 2012 offering Life Becomes Noises was closer to what Lloyd is trying to achieve with Griefcast, in that it broached the death (rather than the life) of Hughes’s dad, if not the process of coping afterwards. So, too, to a degree, John-Luke Roberts’s absurdist bouffon take on the genre in 2015, which obliquely dramatised but only glancingly articulated Roberts’s conflicted feelings after his dad’s death.Few comedy shows (or few I’ve seen) have grappled with grief to the degree that, say, On the Run’s beautiful theatre show So It Goes did in 2014. Maybe Lloyd is right about comedians’ emotional avoidance. The best counter-argument may be Jayde Adams, best newcomer nominee at Fringe 2016, and one of Lloyd’s four Griefcast interviewees so far. Although it isn’t revealed until the show’s final third, Adams’s current set addresses the death, five years ago, of her big sister. It’s not a show specifically about that bereavement but that information, and the tears than accompany it, cast a light on what’s gone before, as you realise that Adams’s extroversion, her voracious, bordering on aggressive, appetite for life, is profoundly informed by the loss of the sibling in whose shadow she spent her first quarter-century.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch video of Jayde AdamsAdams’s show, or sections of it, may be the closest I’ve seen comedy get to what Lloyd is trying to bottle on her podcast: a comic sensibility not flinching before death, and the related damage it leaves behind. I’m agnostic on the question of whether professional jokers experience death and grief differently from anyone else; I suspect the Griefcast series would be just as compelling (and it is compelling) were its interviewees not all comics. But I agree that all those “dead dad” shows, and comedy more widely, have something valuable to bring to the conversation about grief: an absence or rejection of piety; an impulse to be funny, the shock of which can clear the way for something new; and the reassurance that the sadness isn’t indomitable, that there’s still laughter in the world.Three to seeLolly AdefopeA week’s Soho run for the impressive multi-character comic, with her sophomore show addressing the double-bind whereby she gets flak both for addressing race in her work, and for not addressing it.• Soho theatre, London, until 3 December. Box office: 020-7478 0100.Jewish comedy festivalFour-day festival in north London featuring the Jewish comedian of the year award, a celebration of the “Borscht belt” standup of the 1950s, and performances from acts including fast-risers Desiree Burch and Dane Baptiste.• JW3, London, until 4 December. Box office: 020-7433 8988.John KearnsThe winner of the 2014 Edinburgh comedy award has kept a low profile since, live comedy-wise – although TV-watchers may have seen him in Top Coppers. Now, he pitches up at Battersea Arts Centre with a bespoke festive show, apparently drawing on recordings he’s made of his family Christmas dinners.• Battersea Arts Centre, London, 6-10 December. Box office: 020-7223 2223.