Last week the Guardian’s Weekend magazine explored a side of the hospitality industry hidden from many of us, exposing abuses of power, sexual harassment and illegal working practices.‘The manager was selling coke to staff’: the truth about top restaurants Hundreds of readers responded in the comments with their own stories (many of their experiences echoing those in our feature but not all of them bad, of course) and to our callout asking for you to share your experiences in the industry. Below is a selection of responses, with many talking about a love-hate relationship with the industry that for them holds a dream career when things go well. You can continue the conversation in the comments.‘As chefs and mentors to young chefs we have a duty to break the cycle of abuse’ – executive chef, 36In past roles, I have seen it all. Owners doing drugs on the premises; stealing their own stock from business partners and family members; stealing tips from hardworking staff to line their own pockets; paying suppliers myself as accounts are closed due to non-payment of bills; pocketing of money when customers paid in cash to skew figures; bailiffs appearing on premises ... I’ve seen a restaurant partner helping himself to the tip jar to pay for bets he’d made and lost. In general I’m cynical about the industry, but us kitchen staff need to shoulder some of the blame. We have created this martyr/warrior-style attitude towards our trade by constantly competing with each other overs hours worked in a week, covers catered for, burns and scars we have and how battle-hardened we perceive ourselves to be. My cynicism is tinged with positivity however, though I don’t mean to trivialise victims of any style of abuse in any way. As chefs and mentors to young chefs these days we have a duty to break the cycle.I do feel there are a lot of positives. My own working life is to be envied, mainly as I work for a forward thinking employer who allows me to work to my own schedule as long as the job is completed. I think, though probably impractical, a vetting process (idiot proofing if you will!) should be introduced for anyone entering the trade as a business owner. Unfortunately, restaurant ownership is a trade where very little business ethics exist and this needs to be policed. ‘The industry is transitioning: we must reject the notion bullying is normal’ – pastry chef, 26I was 21 and an apprentice in my first kitchen job, a French fine dining restaurant. The sous chef was always shouting vulgar things when he thought the kitchen was too quiet – his “greatest hits” involving sex with animals and dead children. He also loved making comments about my chest, and rude gestures to female front of house staff about their bodies. I was organising the deliveries one morning in the walk-in fridges by myself, out of earshot of the rest of the kitchen, and he comes in to the fridge and closes the door behind him ... When I told the head chef, he told me that, “this is how kitchens are” – and that if I didn’t like it I should get out. I think the industry is transitioning, though, because it has to. The old school chefs are dying or retiring, and the few that remain lament the current state. The head chefs of today would still have been middle-tier in the past – they’re younger and have aspirations to fame in the media rather than among ourselves. The youngest or newest are taking less abuse because they’re scarce now and the restaurants need them more than the other way around. I have seen a dramatic increase in women entering with every passing year, but overall fewer and fewer people entering industry. I think this is a good thing – without this pressure to change the industry from within [that a smaller workforce brings] those working in it will never obtain humane hours, a living wage and conditions that won’t drive us to substance abuse and mental breakdowns. I want better pay of course, but to improve things we also should name and shame the sexual predators in our ranks and reject the notion that bullying is normal. We should also teach management good leadership – many are good at their craft but can’t lead their team. We need a strong hospitality union – and people joining it. ‘Chefs do this job because they are passionate and cooking is an art’ – sous chef, 27I regularly work 17-hour shifts and sometimes leave tight-chested due to general kitchen fumes and chain smoking. Services turn aggressive if things are going wrong: I have seen a lot of drug use and heavy drinking, probably due to the fact your freedom is limited because of the long hours.The industry is a labour of love. Chefs do this job because they are passionate and cooking is an art. However, something has to change. Depression is real in this industry. We are the ghosts of society. We are hidden in the kitchens from 7am to sometimes 1am, with rarely a break on most days and scant time to eat. I think there needs to be a clampdown on the conditions we have to work under and recognition from the government, which needs to put its head up and see what’s going on.‘The industry is like an addiction’ – senior chef, 25As anyone who works hospitality will agree, we’re all glad Saturday only happens once a week. Take a recent example: one of the busiest of the year so far and one of our KPs and two chefs go awol. Upon finding them, they’re unable to make eye contact or form a sentence, let alone carry on with service – turns out they’d been taking MDMA all day, and I guess it caught up on them. Time and a place boys – usually the bar after service.But the industry is an addiction – you love to hate it. You love the intensity, the passion, the pressure. You hate climbing into bed at the end of a shift to your other half knowing that’s the most you’ll see them for a week. What could be done to improve my working life? Fewer hours, hugely improved wages: the UK seems to look down on “subservient” professions and people don’t realise the skill that’s involved in hospitality.‘The bullshit egos and military-style hierarchy belittles everyone’ – sous chef, 25The kitchen apprentices: have knives, will travel I don’t mind the hard work or the hours. I hate the bullshit egos and military style hierarchy that belittles everyone and encourages aggressive behaviour. I like to promote a calm, communicative, and supportive kitchen but I don’t know how to fix the economic struggle that is hospitality. The reality it that unless you are working for a hotel, you’re not really even able to argue that there is money there for you.I feel like there are too many restaurants: we keep saying that there is a chef shortage but most of these places can’t afford to hire more than the bare minimum staff anyway, because every man and his dog has a restaurant or cafe, and this has spread the money thinner and thinner – chefs are the ones who suffer with poor wages, long hours, and miserable personal lives.‘It’s no wonder there are so many horror stories about people going rogue’ – head chef, 35I love what I do and have a passion for fresh local seasonal and good honest hearty food, which I’m lucky enough to work with every day. But in an industry that frankly bleeds you dry like a hungry leech it’s no wonder there are so many horror stories about people in the catering industry going rogue. I see all these young aspiring chefs who look at the catering industry through rose tinted glasses and frankly I feel sorry for them. The reality is a hard pill to swallow. It’s hard to answer the question of what could be done to improve things – other than that I need a sous chef, and management that understand staff development is vital – because a lot of what needs to change has been the norm for such a long time. We need transparency between owners and staff rather than deception, and we need honest wages for the work done as it’s a skill set and a trade that people are passionate about, despite the adversities.‘For my own sanity I refuse to calculate my hourly rate’ – chef de partie, Michelin-starred restaurant, 27We work 70 hours a week if we’re lucky, 80 plus if we’re not. Sometimes with as little as six hours off between shifts. I am one of the higher paid members of the kitchen and I find it unlikely I make minimum wage if you were to divide my salary by my hours – which I refuse to do for my own sanity.While I love the industry, the older I get the more disillusioned I become. I find it exploits a chef’s passion and love for their trade. I’m trying to get enough experience and money behind me that I can start out on my own as a private chef, offering catering services. But I would not recommend it to anyone. There is an attitude that as a chef you should work long hours, it’s almost glorified in some circles. In this way chefs are condemning themselves to more exploitation. But this expectation exists because we let it exist – with a chef shortage and everyone struggling to staff their kitchens, I think now is the perfect time to start demanding more from employers.‘As an industry I don’t think there is a tighter one out there’ – event catering chef in London, 28I wouldn’t lie and say it’s amazing all the time, because it is a very hard industry, especially if you don’t have broad shoulders and a good sense of humour. But due to the hours and intensity of your work in the kitchen your colleagues do truly become your family. And as an industry I don’t think there is a tighter one out there. There have been many bad experiences in kitchens I’ve been in (I once got in my executive chef’s way a few too many times and he decided that a ladle smashed on my shin was the right thing to fix the situation) but I don’t know a chef who doesn’t love the challenge. The best way to make any chef’s life easier would just to be employ more hands, then the time taken to develop and plan can be increased and the hours everyone puts in would decrease too – but that isn’t a reality, as people want the best for the least amount possible.Some details have been changed to protect contributors’ anonymity