‘To be fair, asking for 10 tracks is totally taking the piss,” says Jazzie B, with a chuckle. The DJ, producer, broadcaster and Soul II Soul leader has had difficulty narrowing down the tunes that define what was, for him, a pivotal decade.“The 60s and 70s must have been incredible, but I think the 80s was the best time,” he says. “I don’t keep my records in any order other than eras – and there’s maybe eight shelves of everything that happened in the 80s. Back in the day when you [DJed], you played all night. I could name all the artists off the back of my shoe. But the point was, where did that relate to at that time, to what you were involved in? The sequence of these songs was about setting the mood.”As he will explain on a BBC2 show on Saturday, the decade has particular resonance for Jazzie. “I started [DJ-ing] in 1977, and Soul II Soul really lifted off into the stratosphere in 1989,” he says. “By 1987, I was on the tarmac, walking up to the rocket; by 88, I was in the rocket. We were training through the 80s, and this music would have been part of the soundtrack of my life.”Stevie WonderAs If You Read My Mind (1980)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I plucked that one out to half represent Motown, which was quite prolific during that period, and, of course, the wonders of Stevie Wonder, who was like an encyclopaedia to me, growing up listening to him and being heavily influenced by him musically. I think I probably started off with Innervisions, but as I was growing up, hearing Stevie come up with stuff like this was mind-blowing. The way Stevie would approach music is such a moving thing.Loose EndsHangin’ on a String (Contemplating) (1984)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This came right in the nick of time, and helped change the whole idea of what R&B and soul was about, particularly from an English perspective. Although the producer, Nick Martinelli, was American, it really put British music on the map. Instead of borrowing, here was a band – a British band – that came up with a different sound. My sound system was full blazing at the time, very much trying to empower ourselves with our own sounds and our own style. So along comes Loose Ends and totally defines that, worldwide. They proved it can happen – and it did happen. They definitely paved the way for the likes of Soul II Soul.MazeJoy and Pain (1980)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I have fond memories of, in my early teenage years, following people like the DJ Steve Walsh, going to places like Royalty, being part of that whole British soul scene. This was one of the anthems. Everybody immediately got it, and it was one of those anthems that, everywhere it was played, you would always have a singalong. There were tribes, people from different areas, but songs like that would be played, and everybody would be in harmony and in unison singing along to that. It would be brilliant.Herbie HancockStars in Your Eyes (1980)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Got to be Herbie Hancock, for more reasons than one. Just listen to that song – that’s it! Done! That’s the king of everything there – that guy’s one removed from God.Marvin GayeSexual Healing (1982)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest If you hark back to my culture, this would probably be the blues-dance days. As black British people, we were trying to define our sound again: this would have been a derivative of lover’s rock. This would be a song I’d play to bring people together at a particular time in the dance – maybe when it’s very hot, or really packed. People that are totally anonymous will be linked – inseparably linked, in an almost Velcro, chain-like way – romanticising, fantasising, listening to the lyrics, and enjoying themselves to the fullness to that particular groove.Luther VandrossMy Sensitivity (1985)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest After that sweaty embrace you’ve got to get a little bit of air, so you might disembark, as it were. The opposite end of the spectrum – and yet inseparably linked – would be this. You would let go of your partner, and then immediately, when the first four bars hit, you’re back embraced. If you close your eyes, and you are a person who would have been out raving to sound systems like Soul II Soul or even Rapattack and Good Times, this song says it all. You’ve actually brought the house to a serious level in terms of the energy and the next song that they’ll be waiting for.CameoCandy (1986)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Then I’d play something like this, which would allow everybody in the dance to be together in unison. You’ve got that vibe of love and everything happening. This music is sending you on an absolute journey, with everybody, in formation, dancing to this song. In those days, you really didn’t hear this type of music on the radio or on any of these other outlets. The sequence of songs I’ve just landed on you will be played, but in a very unconventional way: that includes the edit, what’s going on sound-wise, and – most important – how it’s played, with an attitude. That’s the way I came up as a DJ: there was always a message in the music that you played.Teena MarieYou Make Love Like Springtime (1980)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I had a major crush on her. I’d only seen her through the album sleeves, but I was blind to that – it was totally her voice and where she would go musically. This was one of the songs where I thought she was just amazing. I was asked to work with her in the 90s, and when we talked about what we were doing or where my interests lay, this was one of the songs I said I was bowled over by. Working with her was difficult. I fell in love with this song, and with this lady through this song – then I get to meet her years later, and the work we did turns out to be a song called Since Day One, so it’s almost like a full-circle kind of thing.Earth, Wind and FireLet’s Groove (1981)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest They are the best band I’ve ever seen live. I was in America, it would have been about 1988, somewhere in New York. These guys must have had 100 people on stage at one time, and I could detect and hear and be moved by every person in that band, and the way they played, and the emotions of the songs, the harmony between the band, and how everything just fit. I thought: “If I ever have a live band, I wanna sound at least half like that.” And now with me having the band instead of just being a studio producer, they’re possibly my biggest band influence. It was a real incredible experience. They blew my mind.Chaka KhanWhat Cha’ Gonna Do for Me (1981)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Growing up, listening to this lady sing was like church, but then it was so, so sexy, raunchy, very moving. I am a lover of powerful singers. I’ve always been asked who I’d like to work with – and on my list, she’s circled so many times. But I wouldn’t want to work with her, because she’s just totally all that and a bag of chips, and I need to keep that memory of her. Sometimes with females, I tend to maybe overcomplicate it – sometimes give too many props or whatever, because they are the alpha and omega as far as I’m concerned. But this lady properly moves me. I’m a huge fan.Jazzie B’s 1980s: From Dole to Soul is on BBC2, Saturday 26 November at 10.30pm.