Casey Affleck seems poised for grade-A movie stardom. After decades toiling in the shadows of his big brother Ben and childhood friend Matt Damon, he is tipped to sweep this season’s best actor awards for his role in the drama Manchester by the Sea.Critics have acclaimed his depiction of a heartbroken divorcee as a tour de force. “Casey Affleck joins the ranks of giants,” gushed Time Out.If Hollywood likes one thing more than a comeback it’s a breakthrough, and for a celebrity-driven industry, Affleck’s is especially gratifying: The Boston scrapper with under-appreciated talent and an artist’s soul, too long languishing on the fringe, finally taking his place in the spotlight.Affleck, normally press shy, has worked the awards circuit with aplomb. In his acceptance speech to the New York Film Critics Circle this week – a possible prelude to a Golden Globe this weekend and then an Oscar – he read out stinging reviews the event’s host, David Edelstein, had made about his previous performances. (Sample: “Affleck, though likeable, doesn’t have a lot of variety and resorts to chewing gum to give his character through-lines.”)How, Affleck asked, does one survive such scathing and often accurate criticism? “Truth is, there’s never really been anything so horrible said about me that I haven’t either thought of or said to myself.” It was funny, poignant and self-deprecating and the critics lapped it up. Batman’s kid brother was finally getting his due.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Manchester by the Sea trailer: Casey Affleck stars in acclaimed dramaThere is, however, a snag in the humble artist’s narrative. Two female colleagues who worked with Affleck on I’m Still Here, a 2010 mockumentary which he directed, sued him for sexual misconduct. Cinematographer Magdalena Gorka and producer Amanda White alleged that behind the scenes Affleck verbally and sexually harassed them: bragging about sexual exploits, propositioning and grabbing White, sliding into Gorka’s bed uninvited and creating a hostile climate by, among other things, instructing a crew member to display his penis. Each woman sought $2m.Affleck denied wrongdoing and settled both claims in 2010. Details of the deal remain secret, but Gorka’s and White’s complaints remain online, on the public record, for all to see. Here was a potential monkey wrench in the PR campaign for Manchester by the Sea, sabotaging not just Affleck but Amazon Studios, which hopes for awards glory to crown its emergence as a Hollywood player.Nate Parker, after all, had been poised for his own breakthrough with Birth of a Nation only to be shunned, and the film’s award buzz silenced, after revelations that he had been accused (and later acquitted) of rape in 1999. He has denied it was rape, claiming it was consensual sex. [Ben Affleck and Matt Damon] joked that Casey finally needs a Golden Globe. Maybe that protects Casey from real scrutinyMember of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association Hollywood liberals also shuddered at Donald Trump’s “grab them by the pussy” leaked tape and did not protest NBC’s sacking of Billy Bush, who was implicated in Trump’s comments. They cheered Roger Ailes’s tumble from Fox News amid sexual harassment complaints.Old injustices have surfaced: Tippi Hedren revealed in a memoir fresh details about Alfred Hitchcock’s predatory behaviour while filming The Birds. Bernardo Bertolucci admitted he conspired with Marlon Brando to film a rape scene in Last Tango in Paris without revealing all details in advance to the then 19-year-old actor Maria Schneider. More accusations, some decades old, have piled up around Bill Cosby; he has denied assaulting any of the women accusing him. The drip-drip of revelations has prompted indignation and calls for Hollywood to do better. In this climate Affleck could have shared the fate of the ancient mariner, metaphorically weighed down by the albatross. Instead, he soared. In magazine interviews, TV chat shows, round-table media talks and film festivals he basked in acclaim and affection – a striking contrast with the interrogations Parker faced.Some media outlets such as Buzzfeed, Mashable, the Daily Beast and New York Times did stories on the allegations but without any apparent effect on the awards buzz.“People love him in Manchester and he might win some stuff,” said a member of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association (HFPA), which runs the Golden Globes. “People really do like him, no one wants him to be an abuser or anything like it.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nate Parker’s film The Birth of a Nation was overshadowed by negative press surrounding a 1999 rape accusation, of which he was acquitted. Photograph: Fred Prouser/ReutersAffleck, after all, is a gifted actor who carved a circuitous path through indies (Gerry, To Die For) and bit parts in big films (Ocean’s Eleven) and won a best supporting actor nomination in 2007 for The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford before derailing his career with the bold but misconceived I’m Still Here.The member, who requested anonymity, said the sexual harassment allegations did not surface during HFPA interviews with Affleck, possibly to avoid offending Ben Affleck and Matt Damon, who championed the younger Affleck in their own meetings with the group. “They both joked that Casey finally needs a Golden Globe. Very much the united front ... and maybe that really protects Casey from real scrutiny. Reminds me a bit of Woody Allen – the liberal press loves him too much to want to really look for the truth.”Woody Allen. Two of Hollywood’s most problematic words, after Roman Polanski. The former accused of child abuse, the latter convicted, and both still revered for cinematic achievements. Allen has repeatedly denied the allegations for years.It is perhaps harsh to include Affleck in such company. His alleged offences during filming of I’m Still Here, which chronicled Joaquin Phoenix’s faux meltdown, were not criminal. The gravest accusation is that while hosting the crew in his apartment he crept into the bed where Gorka slept.“He had his arm around her, was caressing her back, his face was within inches of hers and his breath reeked of alcohol,” said the cinematographer’s complaint. She said he responded angrily when ordered out, then left. Gorka and White also alleged Affleck violated their contracts.Since the cases were settled privately there is no way to weigh the evidence. Neither Affleck nor the alleged victims responded to interview requests for this article. Nor did Affleck’s estranged actor wife, Summer Phoenix (sister of Joaquin), nor half a dozen other crew members who worked on the mockumentary, save one, a woman, who said she witnessed no harassment.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Casey Affleck and Manchester by the Sea co-star Michelle Williams at the New York Film Critics Circle Awards. Photograph: StarPix/REX/ShutterstockIn the few times he has been asked, Affleck has denied wrongdoing. “It was settled to the satisfaction of all. I was hurt and upset – I am sure we all were – but I am over it,” he told the New York Times. He hinted to Variety that he was the victim. “I guess people think if you’re well-known, it’s perfectly fine to say anything you want. I don’t know why that is. But it shouldn’t be, because everybody has families and lives.”If Affleck does indeed spend the next few weeks clutching trophies on podiums, observers can choose from two narratives. Here is a gifted actor unspoiled by proximity to fame who kept plugging away and stamped his authority in Kenneth Lonergan’s brooding masterpiece. Or here is a man who abused his power to humiliate female colleagues and then hid behind heavy hitting PR bruisers and the industry clout of big brother Ben and mate Matt.This being Oscar season there is a race angle too. Did Parker, who is black, sink because he lacked Affleck’s protective bubble? Or was it because he was accused of a graver offence, and the revelation that his alleged victim took her own life?Jeffrey Wells, a veteran Hollywood columnist and blogger, thinks there should be a separation of church (cinema) and state (film-makers’ private lives). The media had no business dredging up the Affleck allegations, he said. “It’s not decent to try make a thing about this given the two women involved took the money and went away, so to speak. I mean, its over.”If the older Affleck and Damon helped dampen the story, well, kudos, said Wells. “Maybe that’s a factor. If it is, that’s good, because [the allegations] are not even close to approaching the Woody Allen allegations, or Polanski. It seems to boil down to asshole, boorish behaviour. So what?”