Tricia Bobeda and Greta Johnsen are nerds. They’re not ashamed of the title, though, because they believe that everyone is a little nerdy about something, and they have the podcast to prove it. Each week on WBEZ’s Nerdette they take a deep dive into a favorite topic. Whether they’re talking about Star Trek Voyager with Kate Mulgrew or chatting with National Geographic host Neil DeGrasse Tyson, they create a safe space for geeks everywhere.Why you should listen “The crux of the show is still what it’s always been – an interview with someone that we find fascinating,” says Bobeda. What Johnsen and Bobeda find fascinating is a wide variety of topics from “lady spies of the civil war” to computer programming to Doctor Who to feminism to space travel and every corner of pop culture, including television, movies, music and other podcasts. They even learn to play the hallmark game of geekdom, Dungeons and Dragons. They’ve also started to recap Game of Thrones with the help of uber-fan Peter Sagal, host of Wait, Wait Don’t Tell Me.The only requirement for guests is that the person be a nerd. “A nerd is someone who has an obsessive tendency towards something in their life and it has made them an expert in something, even if no one knows they are an expert in it,” says Bobeda. Her favorite example is Jim DeRogatis, a well-regarded music critic and host of a show called Sound Opinions at WBEZ. “He makes and paints by hand Napoleonic figurines for dioramas that are from historical settings,” says Bobeda. “It’s a lovely secret nerd obsession, which we love and we love it when people out themselves as nerds on our show.”As is undoubtedly apparent by now, the show also works to reclaim the word “nerd” and help it on its way from being an insult to a celebration. “When you have NBA draft picks wearing Urkel glasses and the word ‘nerd’ stamped on stuff in stores meant for cool teenagers, it shows that the word has shifted,” said Bobeda. “Being passionate and smart about something is cool now.”Our contributors get geeky. Or is that nerdy? Their love of nerdom started years ago when Bobeda and Johnsen worked in the same public radio newsroom and, as is wont to happen when you work in public radio, it was eventually suggested that they should start a podcast. “‘We should start a podcast’ is a little bit like ‘I should write a screenplay,’” says Johnsen, laughing. What started out as a joke soon became a reality. “We just wanted to talk about things we loved with people we thought were interesting, and a hundred plus episodes later, here we are,” says Bobeda.After they came up with a name, Nerdette, to indicate that they were women who were “just a little bit nerdy”, their first episode ran in May 2013 and they immediately tackled the hard questions: which Arrested Development character are you? “I’m Lucille,” laughs Johnsen. “I’m just the worst!” From there, they’ve talked about everything from the X-Files with Gillian Anderson to feminism with Caitlin Moran to gross science with writer Mary Roach to Hamilton mania with Sarah Vowell. The show covers an impressively wide variety of topics, which is completely by design. “One of the things I’m glad we did from the start was define ‘nerd’ as a verb, so it became about someone’s level of interest and enthusiasm more than about a specific subculture,” says Bobeda. “We didn’t want to make a show that only talked about books or only talked about TV or video games or comic books. Now we get to talk to makers in all of those spaces.” The hosts and their guests make recommendations to the listening audience, too, handing out homework assignments such as reading Karen Russell’s Vampires in the Lemon Grove or making their beds, a recommendation from Ask a Clean Person’s Jolie Kerr.As for what they personally nerd out about, for Bobeda it’s musical theater and Doctor Who, although she admits that the US is a bit “late to the party, but really happy to be at the party”. Johnsen is an unabashed bookworm and word nerd who grew up with a dictionary on the dining room table. The two have taken their passions not only to the air, but to live shows as well, which are some of Bobeda’s favorite episodes.While the show covers a wide swath of geekdom, it also dives into womanhood, which both Johnsen and Bobeda believe is important, but not determinative. “We didn’t want that to be the defining characteristic of the show,” says Bobeda. “It just means we’re coming at pop culture from a slightly different angle.” Johnsen adds: “The show isn’t necessarily about women’s issues, but we do talk about how we both happen to be women.”As for where to start: “I like to tell people to just go through the list of episodes and see what the subjects are,” said Johnsen. “There is bound to be something in there that you will find interesting.” On Nerdette, there is no doubt about that.Where to start: Sandra Cisneros; Caitlin Moran; Astronaut Chris Hadfield; Neil DeGrasse Tyson