David Cameron's proposals to roll back green taxes (Report, 28 October), which account for around 4% of an average energy bill, rather than tackling the underlying causes of rising prices and increasing fuel poverty, are symptomatic of the government's chaotic energy policy. At the moment gas prices in the UK are lower than in most European countries, but UK households use more energy and so pay more due to lack of sufficient home insulation. Yet the government is investing next to nothing in insulation and failing to support serious investment in renewables. The National Grid Future Energy Scenario in 2012 predicted that with proper investment in renewables, the UK could become free of energy imports by 2020.Instead of pouring billions of pounds into additional subsidies for dangerous and polluting new nuclear power stations, which will only come online too late (if ever) to address our energy gap, the government should switch to a proper programme of investment in insulation and proven, clean and safe renewables. This would provide Britain with energy security, tackle fuel poverty and create lasting jobs.Denise CraghillYork• George Monbiot advocates using as much renewable energy as possible, but then downplays its potential in favour of nuclear power. When it comes to solar, as the Royal Society says, "no other sustainable energy source comes close". Contrary to Monbiot's claims, solar across all the UK's roofs would exceed current fossil power supply. Solar's full potential can be increasingly realised as storage systems commercialise. Cost reductions in solar have been so exceptional that by 2018 we anticipate large-scale solar will need lower public support than nuclear is due to receive in 2023 – and for 15 years, not nuclear's 35 years. Furthermore, solar puts power directly in the hands of millions of people, not a single utility or overseas state. Nearly half a million homes have now gone solar in the UK. Whatever the controversies over nuclear power, credit to the government for backing this winning technology.Leonie GreeneSolar Trade Association