As spirited, passionate and clear-ly enunc-iated soapbox soliloquies go, Richard Roxburgh can deliver with the best of them. Every word weighed with precision, expletives not entirely deleted. It sounds strangely familiar.“I’m finding the intrusion of the state into everything in our lives increasingly intolerable,” he says. “We are being dismantled as thinking adults to the extent that we are dumbing down. Eventually we will become completely politically, spiritually, mentally enfeebled … That’s the future, that’s what we’re looking down the barrel of, and it shits me.“Why we are not allowed, as fully formed adults, to decide if we want to to wear bicycle helmets or not, is a huge mystery to me. I mean I would choose to, but I don’t think that’s a rule that should be mandated by law. And I don’t think there should be a law that says it’s against the law to leave your car unlocked. Please explain.“Help me, please, with why my six-year-old was not allowed to walk up to the corner store by himself with a $2 coin and get some milk for us because for me that was me charging him with the responsibility, as a man, an adult, as a parent. We’re thinking he’s big enough, he’s old enough – of course we’re going to be there in the street looking out for him. But for the love of god, I’m buggered if I want the state to say that’s against the law.“Every day I read something that makes me go, ‘Are you kidding me?’ It leaves me speechless how it has changed in the last 20 years and is changing exponentially now. Are we all in the future going to have to wear hi-vis vests from the moment we walk out the front door? Are we all going to have to walk to the left on every pavement, otherwise we’ll be in breach of code 307 of the … I mean. Fuck. Off.”Rake box set review: teeming with sex, violence and smart dialogue Ah, Roxburgh. He has become so familiar to viewers of the brilliant Australian series Rake as the dissolute, irascible, wonderfully loquacious, incurably hapless barrister Cleaver Greene that to hear him go on an eloquent rant is to step through some kind of looking glass. The actor doesn’t have much else in common with his small-screen alter ego – who is about to return for a fourth season – but every now and then their opinions overlap. One can assume, for instance, what Cleaver – who stumbles through the corridors of political power and justice, offending most people as he goes – would make of the so-called New South Wales lockout laws, which restrict drinking hours.“There are these happy moments when Cleaver’s opinion and my opinion on things would tend to converge, and this is really one of them,” says Roxburgh. “It is something I feel incredibly strongly about. I feel incredibly strongly about the encroachment of the state on everything, on every element of our lives now.“I just finished writing a kids’ book which is an adventure story; it’s essentially about kids who have this incredibly dangerous, kind of life-threatening adventure, because they were the books that I loved as a kid, the ones that really spoke to me, and they’re the ones I remember – the Robert Louis Stevenson stories, Mark Twain, stories about kids having dangerous adventures – and I don’t think kids can do that any more. The state is kind of taking charge of all of our decisions, not only for our children, but for us as adults.“And this is what Cleaver would think about what’s happening up in Kings Cross [a Sydney suburb that has been impacted by the lockout laws]: it is the end of days, and it is certainly,” he says, deepening his voice to a Cleaveresque tone, “the end of nights.”'They're treating us like children': a generation rages against Sydney's lockout laws “You sit outside, you’re eating al fresco in Potts Point now, it’s 9.30pm and a waiter comes outside and says, ‘I’m sorry, I have to pick your cutlery and your plate up now and you are going to have to follow me inside,’ and you say, ‘I’m halfway through my steak are you kidding me?’ He’s not kidding, so you have to pick your plate up, and you have to walk inside with your steak.“I mean, we’re back to the immeasurable madness of the 6pm hose-out of the pubs in the 1960s. We are rolling back to the 1960s and everybody’s just copping it. Well I say no, and I think Cleaver says no too.“I think we have a state that wants everybody in bed by 10.30. And Cleaver would be like, well that’s not me. You know, I’m not going to be in bed by that time, Mike, and I’m not going to wear my high-vis vest, I’m not going to wear my bicycle helmet. I’m going to ride to town on my bicycle and go to an illegal all-night rave party.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Richard Roxburgh as Cleaver Greene in season four of Rake. Photograph: ABCThe prospect of not being able to get a drink after 1am in an internationally famous late-night precinct is the sort of farce we might see handled with comic aplomb in a subsequent series of Rake, if we’re lucky enough to get one. The writing of Peter Duncan and Andrew Knight dwells in the realm of glorious absurdity but, as Roxburgh says, there’s nothing far-fetched about it. “Every time we work on Rake we’re like hamsters on a treadmill trying to keep up with reality as we read it in newspapers, whether it’s Australian politics, international politics, events in social media, the kind of hilarious circus of our Senate. You know, the characters in our Senate … hilarious.“I think we’re actually underachieving in terms of absurdity; we’re not nearly absurd enough. We’ve got Trump over there, it’s amazing. A realtor from New York whose hair is an abiding mystery, whose everything is a kind of abiding mystery, who wants the Mexicans to build a wall to keep themselves out of America, that’s what he wants. Then we’ve got a presidential candidate in the Philippines who says he’s going to kill criminals and feed them to fish – so, really, we’re underachieving. We’re not aiming high enough in the absurdity stakes.”In series four of Rake, which premieres on 19 May, Cleaver Greene – last seen in series three hanging by one foot from a flyaway hot air balloon – crashes back into our lives, literally, when he smashes through a plate-glass window and into a dining room, where a lunch is in process. One of the guests is from Cleaver’s murky past. You just know that it means trouble, on many levels.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘There’s been a more anarchic feeling on set,’ Roxburgh says of Rake’s fourth series. Photograph: Matthew Vasilescu We almost didn’t see another series of Rake. It was widely reported that the third would be the last – “we want to leave a good-looking corpse” said Roxburgh at the time – but it seems to be an unstoppable force. “As time went by we started to think there’s so much that you put into these things, there’s so much that goes into it from so many people, and Rake attracted a lot of love – so we just thought having built all that kind of pretty fabulous infrastructure, it seemed a shame to just let it go. And we thought if we could find some very good thing to propel it forwards, then that would be great … then we came up with something that I definitely can’t talk about. “There are a few things that happen that are deeply impactful in Cleaver’s life, both positive and negative, but where we leave it at the end is really is very exciting. There are things that happen this time around which are quite seismic – really significant life-changing things happen to Cleaver in this season – which are very entertaining.”Roxburgh’s litmus test for “entertaining” is his own level of feeling entertained: “I think while we find it exciting, while I find myself laughing out loud, then I think we’re safe. And while that’s happening, and while Pete and Andrew are coming up with this stuff that’s that good, I think we’re good to go.”The magic – the alchemy, as Roxburgh calls it – it is still in force in series four, perhaps even more so, he says. This is one of the joys of series television: getting to know and love and become attached to a cohort of characters.But the pressure to keep it fresh is ever-present. “The demands you put on yourself become a little bit higher, which makes it a little bit more of a nightmare as well: we’re all really pernickety, we’re all very fussy, so there’s a lot of quality control. But what I’ve really loved is that a part of that control has been manifested – and this is going to sound like a paradox – in letting go. And in this season there’s been a lot of letting go, there’s been a more anarchic feeling on set, a lot of improvised moments, things chucked into the mix to surprise your fellow actors, because we’ve all got such a good understanding of where the characters are now.“Honestly, there are some scenes we have shot this time that are some of the most thrilling things I have ever shot on film. There were scenes with five of us in the ensemble, this kind of mad overlapping aria of a thing … arguments and people throwing things in. It had an explosive quality but it was also very funny. And as is always the case, it was Cleaver trying to dig his way out of an ever-deepening shitfight.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We’ve all got such a good understanding of where the characters are now,’ Roxburgh says. Photograph: ABCNext up for Roxburgh is a mystery project – “can’t announce it yet, sorry” – before he and his television cook and cookbook author wife Silvia Colloca go to New York at the end of the year with their two sons, while he performs on Broadway with Cate Blanchett in Chekhov’s The Present. But first is a trip to Italy to spend time with Colloca’s family, taking their boys out of their Sydney schools for a time which, he says, “will probably be made illegal in about two hours, and I’ll be breaking several laws”. Just another intolerable example of the state’s intrusion into the lives of a “blindly obeisant” population.“Sorry,” Roxburgh says later, “I hope I didn’t blow your hair back with that rant.” He did, actually, and it was a breath of fresh air.• Season four of Rake premieres on the ABC at 8.30pm on 19 May