Spoiler alert: this recap assumes you’ve seen episode 10 of Vinyl on HBO or Sky Atlantic. Don’t read on if you haven’t.‘Every generation is full of lost, f****d-up kids who need to hear that they’re not alone’And so, somewhat inevitably, Vinyl’s first year wraps up being all about the music, man. After a season that’s spent most of its time portraying Richie Finestra as a coked-out monster of a man, this finale finds him coming out as something approaching triumphant. Which rather begs the question: what was the point?To the finale’s credit, it does a lot of heavy lifting to remedy its earlier missteps. The murder plot is as good as closed with a simple bullet in Joe Corso’s head, and Richie’s role as police informant appears to involve little more than regaling his handler with a few stories about groupies. It’s as if Vinyl is owning up to its mistakes, effectively writing out the pound-shop Sopranos elements, which bodes well for the promised “change in creative direction” for the second season. I wouldn’t be surprised if Galasso doesn’t feature at all next year.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Nasty Bits with Jamie Vine. Photograph: Sky TVBut the problem with that is, most of the elements Vinyl can be proud of end up underplayed. Clark and Jorge have kickstarted disco by pushing Kill The Lights to every DJ in town, presumably turning around the label’s financial fortunes in the process. But the whole strand is rushed, and I wanted to see more of that revolution. The same goes for the Nasty Bits subplot, Kip’s overdose and Richie’s subsequent revival of him, channelling Uma Thurman in Pulp Fiction. And that, in turn, is just one of Richie’s heroic deeds, which range from resolving the situation with Lester (was that Lester’s plan all along?) to drumming up publicity around the Nasty Bits by calling the cops on his own band. In fact, the show seems so intent on pushing a soft reset on Richie that it takes Devon out of the picture entirely. After weeks and weeks of dragging out the neglectful-husband-bored-housewife routine, it feels downright bizarre that this week Mrs Finestra doesn’t feature at all. Is that marriage completely over now, or was Olivia Wilde’s character simply one too many discs to keep spinning?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jamie at the Alibi launch party. Photograph: Sky TVWith various days saved, tensions heightened, the excitement of the Nasty Bits’ debut and the launch of the new label Alibi, this felt “event” enough to feel like a satisfying conclusion. But this is where I’m confused. It’s entirely possible that we’re supposed to side with Zak’s world-weary, disapproving bewilderment as a “record man” hopelessly out of time, as this new (or repackaged) counter-culture erupts across American Century. There is, after all, a room full of grown adults, not half as cool as they think they are, spraypainting phrases like FUCK THIS PLACE! across the walls. Perhaps the whole thing is a satirical swipe at rock’n’roll’s hustlers ignoble tradition of turning rebellion into money. Certainly, that was the sort of party you probably had to be at to stop it looking ... just a little bit daft. But when a show is selling itself as a love letter to rock’n’roll’s mythology, that’s a problem. Somebody should probably tell Mr Finestra to stop making so many impassioned speeches.Fact and fictionThis week’s big musical set-piece went to the Nasty Bits, which was only right and proper, so no extended Celebrity Stars In Their Eyes. The musical fever dream came from a young Tony Bennett singing The Boulevard of Broken Dreams. And there were blink-and-you’ll-miss-them cameos of Hilly Kristal, DJ Kool Herc, The Ramones and Johnny Thunders.Sound and visionOnce again, the soundtrack highlight came with Kill The Lights, because if you’ve commissioned a song that good then it figures you’re going to give it a decent run-out. But now the series is over, Atlantic Records have put out the final instalment of Vinyl’s epic soundtrack. And so special mention this week to Charlie XCX’s sleazy cover of The Stooges’ No Fun.Sleeve notesXavier’s been learning the diva rules already, but it was delicious to watch Scott’s eyes bulge as he walked the team through sketches of his metallic silver codpiece.After last week’s business with the bat and the tennis racket, this week’s head-scratcher came from the director’s odd fixation with Zak’s shoes.It was a nice touch that Galasso didn’t care much for The Godfather.“The federal government has no interest in which rock star has the clap.” Speak for yourself, detective.Thanks to all those who’ve clicked and commented, throughout a series that we have to be honest has felt like a slog at times. If we’ve all been frustrated with this first series, it’s because there’s a potentially brilliant show in there somewhere. It’s promising that HBO seem to be listening – but will that be enough to bring people back for season two? Let us know.And don’t panic – next week Game of Thrones is back. Rock and roll!