The clouds of doom and gloom may be shrouding British manufacturing right now, yet one particular sector - custom handmade bicycle frames - is thriving. But there’s a giant gender imbalance. Out of 80 builders exhibiting at next week’s Bespoked, the UK handmade bicycle show, just two are women.  Why is this? Are men biologically designed to wield a lathe better? Are women really too weedy to cold-set a frame? Or are we just culturally conditioned to think so? Phil Taylor, the organiser of Bespoked, believes it’s the latter. He says: “I think it’s reflective of society in general. The whole of the engineering world is male-dominated. Until recently there have been few role models for women [frame builders] to aspire to.”  Caren Hartley of Hartley Cycles is one of the female frame-builders showing at Bespoked. She used to make jewellery but switched careers three years ago. What did her friends and family think? “Everyone has been really supportive. My dad loves it because he loves anything mechanical which is probably where I’ve got it from.”  I ask her how physically demanding the work is. “It’s really active, so you do need to be quite fit,” she says. “And there is a lot of lifting things around, but it’s not so heavy that you can’t do it, you just have to think about how you lift things more, using your body weight instead of needing to have massive muscles.”  Though for Hartley the active side is a big part of the appeal. “I’ve never had an office job and I can’t imagine ever having one either. I can’t imagine not working with my hands.”  Verity Nichols, Hartley’s assistant, agrees. “It can be tough, but you gain the strength in no time. Like almost anything technical, it’s all in the practice and the development of your skills, which is loads of fun - getting physically better at crafting the object you’ve designed in your imagination.”  I ask Nichols why she thinks there are so few women in the job. “There’s still a strange sense that women aren’t meant to get their hands dirty. Young girls aren’t encouraged to pick up a hammer or make something with their hands and it contributes to a feeling that a workshop is not a place for them.”  Liz Colebrook of Beaumont Bicycle is the other female frame builder exhibiting at Bespoked. She found the lack of role models a pain growing up. “At school in the 1970s I was not allowed to study tech drawing, woodwork or metalwork,” shesays. “Now the door is opening but it’s still a tough path, as there are very few inspiring female engineers in schools. When I was growing up the only mainstream female technically literate role model for me on TV was Judith Hann from Tomorrow’s World!”  She also wonders if it might be “slightly uncomfortable for men to see a woman weld well.” She says: “This is supposed to be what men are good at. It’s technical and it’s tricky, it’s dangerous and it’s safety critical. It’s a bit like people’s attitude to women pilots. But the proof is in our order books and in our builds.”  Colebrook tells me she loves her job. “It’s a challenge. It takes me out of my comfort zone a bit like being a downhiller or a mountaineer.” Yet she does feel there’s an extra pressure on female frame builders. “What we do has to be flawless. Or else we are going to be met with - I told you it was too hard … which is not fair because every pioneer makes mistakes.”  To help customers take her seriously, Colebrook will have two large photographs of her welding and holding tools at Bespoked. She says: “It’s so important to actually see a woman braze, to see her holding the torch, because when did you last see a woman welding? Okay, Irene Cara in Flashdance but was she actually welding? I wanted to build frames over 25 years ago but I didn’t actually believe that I would ever do this.”  Isla Rowntree, the founder of Isla Bikes, was a huge influence on Liz Colebrook. “In redefining the child’s bike she has taken nearly every component and redesigned it - not just the frame. Her knowledge is immense and she has certainly played a significant part in my belief in being able to fit, design and build a complete bicycle from scratch.”  Being mentored by Hartley has been hugely important to Nichols. She says: “Approaching frame building as you would an old-school apprenticeship has been a very rewarding experience for me.”  Could the government do more to help women in manufacturing? Hartley says: “I’ve been trying to find grants but I haven’t been able to find anything so I think they probably could do a bit more.”  I ask Phil Taylor why someone might want a bike from Liz Colebrook or Caren Hartley. “Because they are excellent frame-builders, and when thinking about who has made your bike it’s important to look at predominantly what styles of bike the frame builder specialises in,” he says. “If a woman wants a bike made especially for her, who’s going to best understand what a woman wants in a bike? A female framebuilder. Of course that’s not to say a man couldn’t build a great bike for a woman.”  Are women more likely to buy bikes from a female frame builder? Colebrook says: “On average I have two women customers for every male customer. I sense women are hugely supportive.”  Hartley hand polishes her frames and hand-cuts the silver head badges at the front of her bikes, using skills learnt from her time making jewellery. She also specialises in small frames for women, though many of her customers are still men “because more men ride bespoke bikes.”  Bike-frame building is a labour of love rather than a quick route to riches. “Hand-making stuff takes a long time and it’s difficult to charge adequately for your time. Someone could make a whole bike in Taiwan for less money than the raw materials for a bike would cost me,” says Hartley.  But Nichols says: “I think it’s nice to know where your bike came from, that it’s made locally and by hand, there’s a story behind it and a definitive start point to your journey with this object.”  • Bespoked, the UK’s handmade bicycle show, takes place at Brunel’s Old Station in Bristol next week from 15-17 April   