The beasts of Britain do not have much going for them. For starters, there aren’t many of them, a historic legacy of the Ice Age and Britain’s island status, which prevented many plants, insects and mammals from colonising when the ice retreated. Britain exists at a northerly latitude, so its species cannot luxuriate in a tropical paradise with millions of colourful, noisy brethren. And, these days, they must share their island with more than 60 million humans.But, being busy, myopic creatures, we easily overlook the weird and wonderful wildlife that is tucked away on – and just off – our shores. Here are five wild surprises.Snakelocks anemone (Anemonia viridis)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Like something from a distant coral reef ... snakelocks anemone. Photograph: AlamyThe swaying, bright-green and purple-tipped tentacles of the snakelocks anemone look like something we could only admire on a distant coral reef. But this large anemone can be found around much of the western coast of Britain, flourishing in sunny shallows – rock pools, on the sea bed and even attached to seaweed. The snakelock uses its waving, serpent-like tentacles, which grow up to 15cm long, to catch sea creatures, including small fish. The anemone enjoys a symbiotic relationship with an algae called zooxanthellae: if numbers of these algae diminish, the anemone’s health suffers and it turns a dull, grey colour. You can find the snakeslocks anemone in many beach rockpools, but it is in the most splendid subterranean surroundings on Dorset Wildlife Trust’s snorkel trail around Kimmeridge Bay, which is one of the best snorkelling locations in the country.Fine Foundation marine centre, Kimmeridge Bay, DorsetRed-necked wallaby (Macropus rufogriseus)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Thriving on the Isle of Man ... red-necked wallaby. Photograph: Mark Daffey/Getty Images/Lonely Planet ImagesIs it a small deer? A dog? A huge hare? Perhaps the most unexpected mammalian sighting in the British Isles is a shy and extremely cute grazing animal that rises on its hind legs and stares at you before rapidly bounding away. A native of eastern Australia, the red-necked wallaby is a dainty, grizzled-grey marsupial that, from a distance, doesn’t exhibit much sign of the reddish tint to its neck. Several wallabies have escaped British wildlife parks since the 1970s and acclimatised to British weather. Populations roam wild on the island of Inchconnachan on Loch Lomond and in Buckinghamshire and Bedfordshire (some small populations, such as in the Peak District, have become extinct). Probably the most successful wild colony has established itself in the Curraghs, a wetland nature reserve on the Isle of Man. With no deer on the island to compete for suitable grazing, there are now more than 100 hopping free. It is possible to see them grazing in small meadows and thudding through the low willow woodland on the nature reserve.Close Sartfield nature reserve, Ballaugh, Isle of ManBuff-tip moth (Phalera bucephala)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Master of disguise ... buff-tip moth. Photograph: Mike Powles/Getty ImagesIf you live in England and Wales and spend time in a park or a garden, you may have stared straight at a buff-tip moth without noticing it. Our 59 species of butterfly are feted for their beauty, but more than 2,500 moth species have been spotted in Britain, many of which are beautiful or fantastical, from the skull-impersonating death’s head hawkmoth to the wonderfully pink and grey elephant hawkmoth. The buff-tip moth is the most brilliant mimic, closing its wings to impersonate a broken birch twig. Its caterpillars feed on many varieties of broadleaved tree, so the butterfly is widespread, although much less common in Scotland and Northern Ireland. Several day-flying moths are seen regularly in daylight hours, but the buff tip, like almost all moths, is most easily admired in a moth trap, which uses a bright light to ensnare moths humanely. Many local Wildlife Trust groups run moth-trapping events during summer months. Alternatively, you can invest in your own trap from a specialist supplier.Western capercaillie (Tetrao urogallus)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Clinging on in Scotland ... western capercaillie. Photograph: AlamyThe capercaillie is the world’s largest grouse. The large, black males, with their spectacular red eyeliner and fan-like tails, are a gloriously showy rival to the most colourful ornamental peacocks and pheasants. In Gaelic, the bird’s name means “great cock of the wood”, but the disappearance of its woodland habitat led to its extinction in Britain in the 18th century. In the 19th century, birds were reintroduced from Sweden and numbers boomed in Scotland to 20,000. Now, however, the bird teeters on the brink of a second extinction, with only a few hundred birds clinging on in the Caledonian pinewoods of north-east Scotland. The reasons for its decline are many, including: too many sheep and deer grazing on its favoured food, blaeberries; its unfortunate habit of flying into high deer fences; resurgent predators, including the pine marten; poor summer weather; and forestry and forest recreations. The best chance of seeing one is to visit a nature reserve such as the RSPB’s Abernethy Forest, where you can book to watch capercaillies displaying – lekking – in April and May. If you miss the capercaillie, you might see an osprey at nearby Loch Garten.RSPB Abernethy Forest nature reserve, Strathspey, ScotlandCommon bombardier beetle (Brachinus crepitans)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fiery customer ... bombardier beetle. Photograph: AlamyThis beautiful beetle with metallic blue-green wing cases is actually extremely rare in Britain. It is also explosive. Like the similar-looking (and even rarer) streaked bombardier beetle, this beast has impressive defences that can hurt larger insects, rodents and even humans. If disturbed, it detonates an explosion inside its abdomen, which superheats a jet of boiling liquid that the beetle sprays at its attackers. How the beetle produces such a noxious explosion without hurting itself has long puzzled scientists and was once used by creationists as an argument for intelligent design. However, researchers have shown recently how the explosion is confined to a special internal chamber that prevents the beetle from destroying itself. One of the best places to seek out Britain’s bombardier beetles is Canvey Wick in the Thames estuary, a former oil refinery dubbed a “brownfield rainforest” for its riches of rare invertebrates. These includ the shrill carder bee and other endangered species previously thought to be extinct, such as the Canvey Island ground beetle and the Morley weevil.Canvey Wick, Canvey Island, Essex