I grew up in Shimoda, in Japan’s Shizuoka prefecture, in a typically Japanese house.We didn’t have chairs, so when I was younger I dreamed of being able to live in a western house, to sit on a chair and drink coffee or to eat a baguette off a white plate. We always sat in a tatami-mat room right next to the kitchen.My husband’s parents had an ultra‑ modern home – his father was an English teacher and his mother liked candles and wore perfume. It was a great contrast to the understated environment I grew up in. They also ate western-style food.Skye Gyngell’s one-pot recipe for roast chicken with butternut squash | A taste of home In our home, we usually ate traditional Japanese meals of rice, vegetables and fish, and only a little meat. We lived near the sea, so we also ate a lot of horse mackerel and kinmedai (golden-eye sea bream), usually raw as sashimi.We often ate a seaweed dish called hijiki, plus lots of simmered dishes using kiriboshi daikon (dried daikon radish, which is rehydrated when used in cooking) and other dried goods. My mother was adept at using those in her cooking. She put sesame seeds into miso soup, spinach, cabbage, hijiki … just about everything. I remember her sitting on the kitchen floor with a pestle and mortar, grinding the seeds into a paste. She did it so often that, over time, the mortar made a dent in the doorframe.Those days were the origins of the cookery I do now – a mixture of Japanese influences from home and western touches I learned after I met my husband.I started cooking for my mother and father when I was at senior high school. I cooked for them a lot until I got married when I was 26. My father loved to drink sake, so we always made him small dishes that pair well with it, like mackerel in miso or chopped raw horse mackerel.The dish that reminds me of him most, however, is fried chicken with leek sauce. I came up with it to make him happy, but it has become a favourite dish among my readers, too. It’s not quite a Chinese dish, but it’s not really Japanese either.My father was so amazed by the taste and used to say: “This is the best chicken I have ever had.” In fact, he wasn’t that keen on chicken – so it’s a testament to how much he liked this recipe. Anyone can make it: all you need is a few easy-to-come-by seasonings, some chicken – frozen will do – and a single leek.When I became known for my cooking, I travelled a lot. I was always busy, so my parents couldn’t see me whenever they wanted. In that respect, I think they were a little sad about my success.Fried chicken with leek sauceServes 4 as a starter2 boneless chicken thighs½ tbsp soy sauce½ tbsp sakePotato starch      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Harumi Kurihara’s chicken with leek sauce: ‘My father was so amazed by the taste and used to say: “This is the best chicken I have ever had.”’ Photograph: Akio TakeuchiFor the leek sauce100ml soy sauce2 tbsp vinegar1 tbsp sake1 ½ tbsp sugar 1 leek, chopped½ tbsp vegetable oil1 red chilli, chopped1 Pierce the chicken all over with a fork so it will better absorb the seasoning. Mix the soy sauce with the sake, then pour this over the chicken, making sure it seeps well into the meat. Set aside while you prepare the leek sauce.2 To make the leek sauce, combine the soy, vinegar, sake and sugar in a bowl. In a pan, lightly fry the chopped leek in some heated oil, then pour in the soy sauce mixture and chopped red chilli and stir together until the sugar has dissolved. Remove from the heat and set aside.3 Coat the chicken with the potato starch, then deep-fry in oil at 180C/350F. For crispier chicken, raise it out of the oil from time to time. When fried to a golden brown, cut the chicken into bite-size pieces. Serve dressed with the leek sauce. I sometimes accompany this with some lettuce.As told to Justin McCurryHarumi Kurihara hosts the NHK World TV show Your Japanese Kitchen mini and contributes to the new NHK World TV food website. • This article was amended on 4 January to correctly describe Harumi Kurihara’s family home as typically Japanese throughout. 