It’s like something out of a virile, red-blooded manly man’s worst nightmares. Our precious childhood memories of bros teaming up to take down ghosts or rob banks – activities surely as inherently and exclusively masculine as bear-wrestling and bare-knuckle boxing – are being destroyed as evil Hollywood executives reboot everything with women instead.First came Ghostbusters, now with Melissa McCarthy, Kristen Wiig and their darned ladyfriends replacing good old Bill Murray and Dan Aykroyd. And now comes the news that the new Ocean’s Eleven movie won’t star George Clooney, Brad Pitt, Matt Damon and a token female Hollywood A-lister who is mainly just there to look annoyed that the boys are back to pull off one last heist. No, it will star women such as Cate Blanchett, Sandra Bullock, Elizabeth Banks and Helena Bonham Carter – and knowing our luck a token man who is just there to look handsome and bluster encouragement from the sidelines.Who would want to live in a world where this can even happen? Next they’ll be trying to sell us a female James Bond. Mark our words, there’s more of this nonsense to come. Here are five more examples of gender-swapped, modern day “bro” movie reboots we reckon might be next on studio execs’ evil wish lists.The Lost Girls      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Thirsting for a female-fronted reboot … The Lost Boys. Photograph: Allstar/Warner Bros/Sportsphoto Ltd./AllstarIn a sleepy northern California town that inexplicably has a murder rate three times that of New York City in the 1980s, two young teenage sisters newly arrived from the midwest find themselves drawn into a terrifying coven of unutterably cool hipster undead creatures of the night. Realising that one of them is halfway toward becoming a vampire herself after accidentally drinking blood at a party, they discover the cure by following the right people on Instagram. The evil head vampire (Rosie Huntington-Whitely) must be taken out with a stake through the heart before she can romance the sisters’ dear old dad all the way to undead city. The Magnificent Seven      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Back in the hat … Andie MacDowell in Bad Girls. Photograph: Snap/Rex/ShutterstockIn the absence of male defenders, who have all been conscripted into the Mexican army, and with the local gringos also proving pretty useless, the brave women of the peasant village of Santa María train themselves in the art of gunfighting and take on the marauding neighbourhood bandidos all by themselves. In the hands of director Catherine Hardwicke the Kurosawa-riffing western is retooled as a feminist classic. In a nod to her not-so cult favourite turn in Bad Girls, Andie MacDowell takes the Yul Brynner role but badly mangles all those Spanish vowels.The Expendabelles      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   One tough lady … Sigourney Weaver’s Expendabelles team would kick Sly and his crew aside. Photograph: c.20thC.Fox/Everett / Rex FeaturesWith Sly Stallone and his team of heroic heavies having exhausted all interest in the macho 80s-style adventures of a bunch of musclebound, ageing bravados-for-hire, it’s time for the ladies to step in. A dream team of Sigourney Weaver, Angelina Jolie, Michelle Rodriguez, Gina Carano, Ronda Rousey, Pam Grier and Brigitte Nielsen is hastily assembled and the greatest female action director of all time, Point Break’s Kathryn Bigelow, inexplicably agrees to swap her new life as an Oscar-winning director of serious war dramas to climb back in the old saddle. Keanu Reeves signs up to play the love interest, who the team must rescue from a luxuriously mustachioed South American general/drug lord with an unhealthy fascination for Bill and Ted’s Bogus Journey. (NB: This movie almost happened for real a couple of years back.)Fight Club      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   No macho … Fight Club without testosterone might have been a very different movie. Photograph: Allstar Picture LibraryA disillusioned young woman becomes increasingly obsessed with a soap saleswoman she met on a business trip, and the pair move in together. It soon emerges that the charismatic Tyler Durden is encouraging nightly basement get-togethers in which the first rule of Fight Club is that it sounds like a load of pointless macho nonsense. The duo still make fine soap by stealing bags of blubber left over from lyposuction surgery, but instead of using the profits to plan world armageddon, they invest it in stocks and shares and buy a swanky villa in Malibu. Reservoir Dogs      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tarantino’s new muse … Kim Kardashian stars as Ms Orange. Photograph: XPX/Star Max/GC ImagesMiss Pink, Ms Orange, Miss White, Missy Blonde and Mrs Brown are gangsters hiding out after a heist. Communicating largely by Whatsapp, they slowly begin to realise that one of their number must be a police informer. The flamboyant, sociopathic Missy Blonde emerges as the main suspect but proves her criminality by lopping off something unmentionable and waggling it in a hostage’s face. The mole is eventually unveiled as reality TV star Ms Orange, who has been furiously updating her Snapchat account with 10-second video snippets from the failed diamond robbery and its increasingly bloody aftermath.