The Theatre Royal in York, which vies with the Bristol Old Vic for the title of oldest producing house in the country, reopens on Friday 22 April with a new production of Brideshead Revisited, after buried treasure under the seats of the stalls delayed the relaunch by months.After the floods, York’s residents try to piece their lives back together It was a “good news, bad news” day for Liz Wilson, the chief executive of Theatre Royal, when archaeologists revealed that alongside the things they expected to discover – dropped coins, bits of broken pipe, cigarette packets and spangles from dancers’ gowns – were well-preserved remains of St Leonard’s, the largest hospital in medieval York, including an original floor surface which had survived for more than 800 years.“On the one hand it was a remarkable and exciting chapter in the story of York, which we were of course delighted to be able to tell. On the other hand ... it was certainly a moment.”The delay could have cost them the pantomime, a northern institution starring one of the most famous Dames in the country, Berwick Kaler, and a lynchpin of the theatre’s annual finances for which thousands of tickets had already been sold.After a fortnight of frantic planning, Dick Whittington and his Meerkat was moved to the National Railway Museum, a 1,000 seater temporary theatre originally built for a touring production of The Railway Children. A handful of people cancelled, and in the end they actually sold more seats for the bigger venue despite cutting the run by a week.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   800 years on ... York Theatre Royal auditorium. Photograph: York Theatre RoyalThere will be an exhibition on the archaeology, but scientists are still analysing the finds, which include animal and fish bones and bits of broken pottery; poignant evidence of dinners eaten by the patients so long ago. Instead, there will be an exhibition on an even earlier period, the Vikings, in May. The theatre escaped the devastating floods which swamped many tourist attractions in December 2015, including the most famous, Jorvik, owned by their archaeologists, which, as the exhibition will explain, was inundated and is not now expected to open until next year.The delay forced some revision on architects De Matos Ryan, so that the foundations of the buried hospital can be detected in the terrazzo floor of the new cafe bar, but also allowed time for some extra work including improvements to the dressing rooms. The theatre now has a new landlord, the York Conservation Trust, which took it over from the city council for £1. They have overseen the building of a completely new roof, which cost almost a third of the £6m budget, new seating throughout, including perfect sightlines from the newly raked stalls, and a levelled stage instead of the previous steep slope, not favoured by dancers.The most visible change, however, is in Patrick Gwynne’s 1967 concrete and glass extension, award-winning and much admired in its day, which though Grade II* listed like the Victorian auditorium had become cluttered. It now has a new lift giving full disabled access, a new restaurant, doubled cafe and bar space, many new toilets, restored rooflights, and a colour changing lighting scheme.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The cafe at York Theatre Royal. Photograph: York Theatre RoyalSome of the extra space has come from glazing and incorporating the Victorian gothic arched colonade, which used to serve as a shelter for the bus queues outside. It is hoped that instead they will now come in to buy coffees. “I love the bus stop,” Wilson said. “Every time I see a bus saying Theatre Royal it gives me a little glow of pride.”Usually the front of house changes are all audiences see of such theatre refurbishments, but York will be offering a startling alternative: £25 tickets for its own productions billed as A View from Backstage, offering seating either in the wings or from high above the stage on the fly floor – the only place to admire one of the building’s finest features, the stone arch and tower built into the back wall of the stage, now believed to be the remains of a Georgian garden folly, probably incorporating much older stonework. They don’t like to use the term anoraks – but there will certainly be people for whom these are the best seats in the house, perhaps in England.• The York Theatre Royal reopens with a new adaptation of Evelyn Waugh’s Brideshead Revisited, from 22-30 April, then touring