The first group Britt Daniel loved was the Bee Gees. He was seven or so, and was allowed to use his dad’s record player for the first time. His dad – a doctor, the most gainful employment in Temple, Texas, where the hospitals were the biggest business – had bought a couple of Bee Gees albums, and the young Daniel played them over and over. “That was the first show I ever saw – the Bee Gees in Austin, round about Saturday Night Fever. I was really into Grease, too. When we drove to Dallas one night, I played it over and over again until my parents objected.” His parents split up not long after the Bee Gees show. He doesn’t think it was anything to do with the Bee Gees.Today, 45-year-old Daniel – a man sufficiently tall and thin as to define the word “rangy” – is once more playing the same song over and over again. And then another song, over and over again. And then another, and so on. His band Spoon are rehearsing to go out on the road in support of their ninth album, Hot Thoughts. They’re also getting a new member, Gerardo Larios, used to playing alongside the existing foursome: multi-instrumentalist Alex Fischel, bassist Rob Pope and the band’s two permanent members over the past 23-and-a-bit years, Daniel and drummer Jim Eno. We’re in the studio Eno runs in a suburb of Austin, Texas, a house converted into a double-height, vaulted recording space, with adjoining control room. “Do you have earplugs?” Daniel asks. I do. I sit down and listen to them run through some new songs, some old songs, until Daniel pauses. “What do you want to hear, Michael?” “Metal Detektor, please.” And then I get a request session from one of the best American bands of their generation.Spoon aren’t exactly famed for rock’n’roll wildness. You will hunt in vain for stories of them riding motorcycles naked through the Mojave desert while tripping, or tales of the broken-hearted movie stars they have loved and left. “We party after every show, with local people,” Eno says, good humouredly, when that is put to him, but he makes no greater claims. After rehearsal, and a barbecue at Ruby’s (“We prefer the tried and true slow cooking method, using oak wood in our brick-and-mortar pits”), as we make our way en masse to see Deerhunter play at the Mohawk, Austin’s bizarre outdoor rock’n’roll club, Eno tells a story about his wife-to-be being unimpressed at walking in on him at said club’s dressing room, shotgunning beers with Drew Barrymore. But that’s as giddy at it gets.Spoon are known for the pretty much unwavering quality of their albums – the review aggregation website Metacritic pronounced them the best-reviewed band of the 00s. Daniel doesn’t much like their debut, Telephono, but his claim that their seventh album, Transference, was not well-received is just wrong: it reached No 4 in the US album charts, and scored 80% on Metacritic – and the fans returned to take the next album, They Want My Soul, to No 4 as well. What you get with Spoon is an astounding level of musical consistency, paired with a sense of invention and experimentation that means every album sounds enough like the one before to clearly be the same band, but different enough to be an evidently dissimilar record. A Spoon album is both melodic and experimental, artful and rocking. Spoon know when to leave space, and they know when to fill it. They know that the job of the band is to serve the song, not show off over it. That’s what’s enabled them to be so good for so long.Neither Daniel nor Eno are Austin natives. Temple is 65 miles away, close enough to be within Austin’s cultural gravity field, but far enough to be part of a very different Texas to the liberal, bohemian state capital. It was natural for Daniel to go there to see bands, then move there for college and then to stay afterwards. Eno grew up in Rhode Island, gradually moving south as he got older – college in North Carolina, where he studied electrical engineering, then to a job in Houston, then to Austin.Temple, Daniel says, the next day over breakfast tacos, wasn’t a great place for an anglophile new-wave fan. Was it a Friday Night Lights kind of town? “It’s exactly like that. Friday Night Lights is based on Odessa, and Odessa and Temple are very, very similar. The high schools used to play each other at football, and they’re the kind of towns where everything happens on Friday because it’s the football game. I didn’t really think about it until many years later, but you really risked being beaten. Not just harrassed, but beaten. Everywhere you went, you really had to look over your shoulder. If you were at the mall, if you were at the parking lot, if you were at a party – people really wanted to fight.”Being 5,000 miles away from the motherlode of his favourite pop culture meant Daniel got some things wrong. “I didn’t get it that Rick in The Young Ones was not cool. I knew he was the obnoxious one, but I would imitate him, because I thought he was so funny and just right, you know?”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Both Spoon’s principals came late to playing music, which might help account for the band’s distinctive sound. Daniel got his first guitar at 16 (“I wish I could have started earlier”), and he reckons he’s pretty good at playing rhythm with his right hand, “but my left hand is not so good”. So no twiddly guitar histrionics. Eno was inspired to take up drumming by the 70s powerpop band the Romantics, when “the cool, singing drummer in the leather jacket just blew me away”. Although he spent years drumming on his parents’ couch, he didn’t get a kit until he was in college. Still, the years banging a pair of sticks on the cushions didn’t just equip Eno with drumming skills, “it also got my dad into upholstery, because he had to reupholster all the couches that I would ruin by drumming on them. I’m going to have to research the different sonic qualities of different fabrics.” He laughs, but he’s a meticulous man – one suspects he would enjoy the challenge. He finally started taking jazz drumming lessons when he lived in Houston, from which comes his contribution to the Spoon sound. “It influenced my style quite a bit, in the less-is-more thing, playing the song, thematic fills – I do a lot of that stuff. I’m a song guy.”The pair met when Daniel’s rockabilly band, the Alien Beats, without a drummer, offered themselves up to be recorded for a friend’s college project. “Jim showed up at this recording, this very low-rent recording session, and that was the first time I met him,” Daniel says. “I was impressed that we could run through the song once with him and he would remember the stops. I hadn’t played with drummers like that before.” The Alien Beats fell apart, then Daniel and Eno reconfigured as Spoon, initially with the intention of getting enough songs together to play weekend nights in Austin bars, then with the idea of recording an album, and then a good album – and then to carry on making more of them.How has their relationship changed? “We’ve been through a lot over the years,” Daniel says. “I know what he’s thinking a lot of the time. I know what I can do to piss him off. I think he knows what he can do as well. I think we’re good at avoiding those things for the most part. He’s supportive of my trip, and I try to encourage and listen to him. I want to bring out the best in him.”So, what would he do that might annoy Eno? “A curt email or text reply.” A few days later, by phone, I ask Eno what he might do that would irritate Daniel. He laughs. “An email or text that’s too long.”During the couple of days I spend around Spoon, Daniel appears to be the most reserved member of the group. Over dinner at Ruby’s, he seems to be the quietest. “Left to my own devices, I’ll end up being alone quite a bit, eating alone, spending all day alone working,” says Daniel. But, he adds, “being social makes me a little happier”. He likes the level of fame he has. He’s a big enough celebrity in Austin that he can always get a table at any restaurant he fancies going to, but when he goes to shows – as happens at the Deerhunter gig – he gets a little tired of people wanting a photo and a chat. It’s only indie-level fame, not showbiz-level fame, but it’s enough.What Daniel likes best – what Eno likes best, too – is playing live. For years, Spoon would only play 29-day tours, because Eno worked full-time and would get leave of absence to go on the road. If he wasn’t back at work inside 30 days, his workplace health insurance would be invalidated. “To me, one of the greatest and most carefree parts of my life is when we’re on tour and going from place to place,” Daniel says. “You can’t really focus on much more than where you’re going to get breakfast that day, where you’re going to grab a shower, where you can get some caffeine, where I can take a nap before it’s time for my show. Those kind of concerns are more like caveman living. I’m into that. The idea that you can go to another place the next day and you won’t see any of those people again.”A lot of musicians, by the time they reach middle age, are really fed up with the road. “I really love it. I think I do love it more than most. The thing that matters most by far is the record, but doing shows is an awful lot of fun, too.”All Daniel and Eno ever really wanted to do was make music. They have now done so, professionally, for most of their adult lives. Along the way, they have fulfilled dreams. Both, separately, pick appearing on Saturday Night Live in 2007 as the highlight of their career (“When I grew up. I watched SNL every week,” Daniel says. “I really hadn’t pictured myself doing that”). And, the thing is, it’s all they’re fit for now. When he’s not playing with Spoon, Eno produces and engineers other bands at his studio. Daniel has formed other bands, played with other artists, recorded solo.“I think there was a point where I realised the difference between being a musician and being a rock star,” Daniel says. “And once I realised there was a difference, I wanted to be a musician.” And in Eno’s studio, watching him direct each take, hearing him detail the changes he wants and listen to those his bandmates suggest, there’s no doubt that he and Spoon are musicians, above all else. Mind you, wouldn’t it be nice if they did all get naked and ride motorcycles through the Mojave desert while tripping, just once?Hot Thoughts is released on Matador on 17 March. Spoon play a sold-out show at the 100 Club, London W1, on 27 February. They play in Melbourne and Sydney in March, and tour the UK in June 2017. Details: spoontheband.com. Michael Hann’s trip to Austin was paid for by Matador.