The Maze Runner is a book which possesses a unique type of narration and holds the attention of anyone who reads it till the very end. The author, James Dashner, gives each and every character in the novel a different sort of attractive trait. The ominous point of view substantially covers every aspect of what’s going on in the novel.The book isn’t just young—adult—post—apocalyptic science fiction; to me this book is a roller coaster of emotions and a constant pressure of the ongoing climax. This dystopian novel starts off with a young boy called Thomas who wakes up on an elevator box and has no idea of what’s going on. He wakes up to see Glade, a large area of land that’s closed by high concrete walls. What is he doing here? Why is he here? The diverse work of Thomas’s thoughts on every character and the main abstract idea as a whole left me awestruck.The title of the book becomes quite self-explanatory as the characters literally run in a maze. This sometimes becomes important to attract people by giving a snippet of the entire book from the title itself. The book could be very confusing at the start, but as it goes on and on you will be compelled to keep reading it. Dashner accomplishes his duty of making a good story line yet keeping the reader’s eye peeled at all times. Obviously, this is a “teen” novel and there is a subplot love story that goes on between Thomas and Teresa.Unlike some novels which forget their main objective of keeping a story line together, this novel doesn’t just concentrate on the love story as it’s not the main plot. This book is a part of pentalogy which I recommend to everyone. The first two books of the series already have a movie which was a grand success. The Maze Runner is a book which gives you constant heart palpitations and adrenaline rush, so if you’re into this kind of novel go ahead and give it a read. Overall I feel this book is a solid 4 out of 5.How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!