The Wondercrump World of Roald DahlSouthbank Centre, London, 10 February-3 JulyThe Wondercrump World of Roald Dahl is a guided group tour that will reveal the secrets of the author and the inspirations for some of his characters through an interactive journey with installations and items from the Roald Dahl Museum and Story Centre in Great Missenden. Part of the Imagine children’s festival. • Adult £10, child £9. Open daily; weekdays 11am-3pm, weekends 10am-6pm, before transferring to Wales Millennium Centre in Cardiff, southbankcentre.co.ukThe Roald Dahl Museum and Story Centre      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A recreation of Dahl’s writing shed on display at the Roald Dahl Museum and Story Centre. Photograph: Rex/ShutterstockWhich Roald Dahl character are you? Great Missenden, Buckinghamshire, 15-19 February“There are a whole lot of things in this world of ours you haven’t started wondering about yet,” said the old green grasshopper … And this half-term at the Roald Dahl Museum there are a whole lot of James and the Giant Peach-inspired activities, including a chance to handle real-life bugs in Meet the Mini beasts, storytelling with Sandra Agard and decorating a bug jar.• Activities from £2.50-£4, plus museum entry (adult £6.60, child 5-18 £4.40). Open Tues-Fri 10am-5pm, Sat-Sun 11am-5pm, roalddahl.com/museumThe Witches      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sarah Ingram as the grand high witch in a production of The Witches. Photograph: Catherine AshmoreHall for Cornwall, Truro, 23-27 FebruaryThe vile, toeless, child-hating witches are brought to life in a Curve Leicester and Rose Theatre, Kingston, production. Actor-musicians tell the story of one boy and his beloved grandmother’s brave efforts to stop the witches before they squish and squiggle all the children of England.• Tickets from £10.50, family ticket (four people) from £49. Recommended for children aged 7+, hallforcornwall.co.ukInside Stories      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   National Museum Cardiff. Photograph: Gareth PhillipsTake the kids to … Seven Stories, Newcastle upon Tyne National Museum Cardiff, 16 July-20 NovemberCo-curated by the gloriumptious illustrator Quentin Blake himself, this exhibition celebrates the creative partnership between the artist and Roald Dahl. It shows how illustrations evolve from roughs and storyboards to the finished art work of favourite stories – including Matilda, the Twits, and Danny, the Champion of the World – and demonstrates the different techniques and media Blake makes use of.• Free, museumwales.ac.ukDanny, the Champion of the World      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lacock Abbey in Wiltshire will host an open-air production of Danny, the Champion of the World in July 2016. Photograph: National Trust Images/James Dobs/PAVarious venues, July and AugustThe adventures of Danny and his brilliant, pheasant-poaching dad will be recreated this summer by open-air theatre company Illyria in the gardens of various stately homes across the UK, including Pentille Castle, Saltash, Cornwall (24 July; adult £15, child, £10, family, £43); Lacock Abbey, Wiltshire (28 July; £15 adult, child £8, family £40); Tatton Park, Cheshire (27 August; adult £11, child £7; family £32); Lytham Hall, Lancashire (28 August; adult £13, children £6.50).City of the Unexpected      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Captain Scott sculpture outside the Norwegian Church in Cardiff Bay, Wales, where Dahl was baptised. Photograph: AlamyCardiff 17-18 SeptemberA city-wide arts extravaganza is being held to mark the centenary of Dahl, who was born in Llandaff on 13 September 1916. Events will include site-specific theatre, large-scale spectacles, smaller theatrical productions and art commissions from Welsh artists, with some his best-loved stories told in iconic locations by well-known fans. Directed by Nigel Jamieson – who created the opening ceremony for the Sydney Olympic Games in 2000 – more macabre events will be held at night, giving adults a taste of some of his lesser-known short stories.• Free, visitwales.comYear-long events at Tatton Park, Cheshire      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A scene from Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory, which will be screened at Tatton Park in September. Photograph: Sportsphoto/Allstar/Warner BrosTop 10 UK youth hostels with family rooms The country estate is putting on a host of activities throughout 2016, including the Splendiferous Scarecrow festival in its gardens (13-21 Feb; closed Monday 15), outdoor trails inspired by some of his best-loved characters (25 March-2 October) and an exhibition of illustrations of book jackets from around the world (19 March-30 October). There is also a Charlie Chocolate Easter event (25-28 March), Fantastic Mr Fox-themed activities at the farm (26 July-26 August) and a Roald Dahl Big Picnic Day (11 September), plus an outdoor screening of the superior 1971 version of Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory (11 September), starring Gene Wilder.• tattonpark.org.ukStay in Roald Dahl’s holiday home      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A bedroom at the Cabin, TenbyDahl holidayed at Tenby every Easter with his mother and sisters between 1922 and the start of the second world war, and his family still owns the property. Part of a Grade II-listed building, the Cabin is set at the end of Pier Hill, with the harbour on one side and Carmarthen Bay on the other, with every room offering sea views.• Seven-nights start at £572, increasing to £1,513, (sleeps six), through Coastal Cottages of Pembrokeshire, 01437 772760, coastalcottages.co.uk 