Pity the band trying to generate a bit of mystique in this information age. Led Zeppelin or Television seemed fabulously inscrutable, but they weren’t pressured into promoting themselves on Twitter. There’s a lot of grappling with big concepts like God and space and how you’re supposed to feelJulia Cumming “A lot of bands have a really funny persona on social media, but I don’t feel very comfortable with that,” says Julia Cumming, of New York psych-rock trio Sunflower Bean. “People probably think we’re boring. But the mythology is in the songs.”Sunflower Bean’s debut album Human Ceremony – out this week – succeeds in shutting out the noise of everyday life in order to get to the heart of the young adult experience.“There’s a lot of grappling with big concepts like God and space and how you’re supposed to feel,” says Cumming, who, like the others, has not long turned 20. The record is a classic coming-of-age movie in musical form, defined by some near-psychic interplay between Cumming (who sings and plays bass), singer/guitarist Nick Kivlen and drummer Jacob Faber.For a while, the three of them roomed together in Brooklyn, bonding over cult films like surrealist Czech fairytale Valerie and Her Week Of Wonders. But they had to move out once it all got a bit too intense. “We were together literally all the time; now it’s only 96% of the time,” says Faber.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Kivlen and Faber grew up in suburban Long Island, where forming a rock band was seen as distinctly peculiar. “There isn’t any rock music in the mainstream over here now – I can’t think of one band under 30 playing arenas,” says Kivlen. “Even in the UK you have Arctic Monkeys and The Vaccines – that doesn’t exist in America.” Gravitating towards the New York indie scene, the boys met Cumming, already a veteran of several US tours with her teenage lo-fi band Supercute!.Early Sunflower Bean efforts slotted nicely into the psych-rock revival – they even had a song called Tame Impala – but bewitching current single Easier Said branches out into the shimmering guitar-pop territory of Lush or The Sundays. The trio look the part, too. Cumming, who resembles a grunge Taylor Swift, has already been recruited to model for YSL. But the band are happy to keep the fashion industry at arm’s length. “It’s just a really bizarre world,” says Faber. “It can be predatory; you definitely have to keep your wits about you.” That shouldn’t be a problem for Sunflower Bean. Their music may be dreamy, but they know exactly what they’re doing.Human Ceremony is out on 5 February via Fat Possum. Sunflower Bean tour the UK from 2 February