Stock in Alphabet – formerly known as Google Inc – jumped in after-hours trading on the news the company had beaten Wall Street expectations with an earnings per share of $5.73. The company reported a 13% rise in quarterly revenue, boosted by strong advertising sales driven by YouTube and mobile search, it said. Its advertising line-items seemed to suggest a slightly different story – the company’s cost-per-click (how much it receives for every ad a user clicks on) was down 11% year-over-year, though its aggregate paid clicks metric was up 23%.Alphabet also announced plans to buy back nearly $5.1bn in stock in the fourth quarter. Alphabet has more than $70bn in cash.Asked about his goals, recently appointed Google chief executive Sundar Pichai said that he wanted the company to be prepared for a truly world-wide web. “Especially with mobile, you have a computing platform that’s already reached half the world’s population and is on its way to reach the entirety of the human population in the next five to 10 years,” Pichai said. “We want to make sure we’re building the right user experience for that.”Ruth Porat, Alphabet chief financial officer, said that global upward trends around mobile ads were helping boost the company’s bottom line, along with its investment in placing ads in what it calls “micro-moments” – user queries that Google “knows” indicate a willingness to spend.“Revenue growth really reflects continued improvement in ad formats and delivery,” Porat said. “We regularly adjust the way we present ads, so we expanded ad space in some queries with particularly high commercial intent to display more relevant, mobile-friendly ads.”Consolidated revenue rose to $18.68bn in the third quarter, ended 30 September, from $16.52bn a year earlier. Net income rose to $3.98bn, or $5.73 per Class A and B share, from $2.74bn, or $3.98 per share in the same quarter last year.Alphabet now contains all of the company’s “moonshot” programs – self-driving cars, space travel, robots – in divisions separate from Google. Investors said when the company changed its name and made Google one of many properties that they hoped Google would offer more color into exactly how its cash was spent. That color won’t appear for another three months at least, since the name-change officially happened 2 October and the quarter ended 30 September.And when one analyst on a conference call asked when Alphabet’s “other best” programs would move into Google, Porat said that they might never do so, describing the non-Google portion of Alphabet as an accelerator.“Within ‘other bets’, we have a pretty broad array of challenges and opportunities that are being tackled,” she told investors. “Those we’re funding, we’ve got a very rigorous approach against which they’re performing. You used the term ‘when they move into Google,’ And I wouldn’t assume that’s the plan. What we want with Alphabet is to be an extraordinary magnet – the best magnet – for entrepreneurs.”