COMEDY25 Years Of Reeves And Mortimer: The Poignant Moments (Leeds, Edinburgh, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Manchester, Leicester)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Appalling easy-listening folk act Mulligan & O’Hare.When Vic Reeves and Bob Mortimer announced their 25th anniversary tour – 17 years after their last major live shows – fans were delighted. Then a heart attack and a triple bypass incapacitated Mortimer and forced the pair to cancel the first leg of the run. Now, he’s fit enough to get back on stage for a proper extravaganza celebrating the duo’s brand of northern surrealism. While Vic and Bob’s own interplay is always a delight, their characters – such as the high-pitched geordie Stott brothers, and appalling easy-listening folk act Mulligan and O’Hare – are also worthy of mention. While we can rejoice at this live return, with Shooting Stars dead and House Of Fools not coming back, it feels like high time for TV execs to allow Reeves and Mortimer to return to the sketch comedy they do so brilliantly. James KettleAll this week’s best live comedyFILMSpotlight   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a trailer for Spotlight.In keeping with its subject, this true-life investigative thriller sticks to the facts, avoiding speculation, exaggeration and emotional histrionics. Instead it’s a story of patient, diligent accumulation, mirroring the work of the Boston reporters at its core as they methodically expose the Catholic church’s covered-up history of the sexual abuse of children. It’s never less than absorbing, and what it lacks in style it makes up for in substance. Steve RoseAll this week’s new film releases TALKSStewart Lee In Conversation(Oxford Brookes University, Wednesday)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Singular, uncompromising, casually dressed - it’s Stewart Lee! Photograph: Antonio Zazueta Olmos/The ObserverThere can’t have been many comedians who have parsed the mechanics of their own trade with the relentless precision of Stewart Lee. This almost surgical approach to the conventions of stand-up could make his performances a desperately dry and self-indulgent business. And it’s fair to say that Lee is a polarising figure, with as many fierce detractors as fervent admirers. However, anyone who’s read his joke-unravelling memoir How I Escaped My Certain Fate will know that this rigour lends itself to further layers of comedy and makes his digressive deconstructions as entertaining as the shows themselves. This talk will see him exploring the workings of comedy performance and the unique requirements of writing for TV, radio and theatre, with professor Simon Kövesi asking Lee questions supplied by attendees. Expect belly laughs and brain food in equal measure from this admirably singular and uncompromising figure. Phil HarrisonAll this week’s best talks MUSIC Eleanor Friedberger (London, Salford, Sheffield)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Hear He Didn’t Mention His Mother, from Friedberger’s recent album New View.As one of the Fiery Furnaces, a band she formed with her brother Matthew, Eleanor Friedberger drew some abstract and fairly hectic patterns across the post-Strokes indie landscape. Now writing and performing on her own, Friedberger has revealed a less frantic and more lyrical side: as if having simplified her musical surroundings, she can now concentrate fully on seeing with clarity her emotional landscape. Her Eleanor Friedberger: 'I had a hard time imagining myself standing onstage not being young and beautiful' recent albums Personal Record (a classy pun) and New View are the product of this change of scene. Historically, quirkier indie acts have progressed to a “classic” instrumentation as a cover for less lovable eccentricities (Conor Oberst’s feverish over-emoting, say), but Friedberger’s embrace of warm Dylan-esque arrangements only serves to throw her pointed domestic observations and strong voice into sharper relief. John RobinsonAll this week’s best live music ON DEMANDBlack Sails (Amazon Prime)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a trailer for Black Sails, ye landlubbers.Set timbers to shivered: the loud, lewd, loquacious sea-bandit drama returns, anachronistically pearly teeth and all. It may fall short of its lofty ambitions to be The Sopranos of the ocean, but that doesn’t mean this Toby Stephens-fronted saga of skulduggery doesn’t zip by agreeably. It also looks gorgeous, with galleons, guns and azure waters aplenty. A fine companion piece to Ripper Street and Vikings in Amazon Prime’s triumvirate of sumptuously violent historical dramas, the third series has just begun. But, this being on-demand, why not take the plunge from the very beginning? Luke HollandCLUBSFatima Yamaha(London, Leeds)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The best track of 2015, 2004’s What’s A Girl To Do by Fatima Yamaha.In 2004, Dutch producer Bas Bron released an EP on a small Irish deep house label under a new moniker, Fatima Yamaha. Down at the end of the B-side was What’s A Girl To Do, a mid-tempo electropop number with a dogged little pulse, a sample of Scarlett Johansson in Lost In Translation, and an addictive raspberry ripple melody. It didn’t cross over, but slowly became a secret weapon for everyone from Dixon to Bicep; Jackmaster called it “the tune of the week/month/year/history of the universe”; and Hudson Mohawke included it on his 2009 Essential Mix, then sampled it for his track Resistance last year. It eventually got a triumphant reissue, and was voted (perhaps a little damningly, given its age) the best track of 2015 by the staff of Resident Advisor. Fatima Yamaha is far from a one-hit wonder, though: What’s A Girl is one of the more contemplative moments of his live sets, which tie together dramatic deep house, cutesy electro and headrushing cosmic disco with his signature funky squiggles. Ben Beaumont-ThomasAll this week’s best club nightsTHEATREEndgame(Citizens Theatre, Glasgow, Thursday to 20 February)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Coronation Street actors David Neilson and Chris Gascoyne. Photograph: Reuben ParisCoronation Street’s David Neilson and Chris Gascoyne are on board for Dominic Hill’s revival of Beckett’s dark comedy. It’s one that is more seldom seen than Godot, but which, like that play, features towards its end a mysterious small boy. A co-production with Manchester’s Home, where it will head next month, the play invites us to enter the kingdom of the blind and paralysed Hamm (perhaps shades of Hamlet in the name and the character’s tendency to soliloquise), where he rules over his attendant – and possible son – Clov, and his parents Nagg and Nell. They live in dustbins. It is a play of ritual cruelties. With a real sense of impending doom, it’s an intricate theatrical chess game, one that suggests that in life we are all players involved in a game of attrition against an unseen opponent. Lyn GardnerAll this week’s best new theatreEXHIBITIONSJanet Mendelsohn(Ikon Gallery, Birmingham, to 3 April)       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   One of Janet Mendelsohn’s portraits of Kathleen. Photograph: Courtesy Cadbury Research Library: Special Collections, University of Birmingham.A young woman, clearly soliciting, is silhouetted against a rain-drenched backdrop in high-contrast monochrome. The mid-20th century photograph could easily constitute a cliche from the then-voguish tradition of social realist documentary, but it’s somehow much more and much better. Encouraged by the cultural theorist Stuart Hall, in the late 60s US academic and film-maker Janet Mendelsohn arrested life on Birmingham’s Varna Road, then a notorious red-light area, for all time. By concentrating mostly on one girl, referred to only as Kathleen, who worked as a prostitute, Mendelsohn’s series brings home more than the usual plaintive stereotypes. Signs of a long-gone world are there – factory chimneys; a mucky child playing naked in the back street – but so are empathetic insights into timeless struggles of yearning, hurt and making ends meet. Robert ClarkAll this week’s best new exhibitionsTVThe Most Dangerous Band In The World: The Story Of Guns N’ Roses(10pm, Friday, BBC4)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Highs, lows, guns and roses: the story of the world’s “most dangerous” band. Photograph: Marc CanterGuns N’ Roses provided a shot in the arm to a jaded LA metal scene in the mid-to-late 80s (in more ways than one), as Jon Brewer’s superbly thrilling profile shows. And while this doesn’t gloss over the lows (Slash died for eight minutes after a drug overdose? “No big deal,” shrugs bassist Duff McKagan, “I’ve died three times”), it also celebrates the highs, courtesy of rare early footage and never before-heard interviews. Ali J CatterallDANCEMark Bruce Company: The Odyssey(Merlin Theatre, Frome, Thursday to 6 February)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eleanor Duval and Christopher Tandy in Mark Bruce Company’s The Odyssey.In collaboration with the same team who worked on his darkly imagined Dracula, choreographer Mark Bruce explores similarly mythic terrain in his latest production. Based on the Homerian epic that narrates Odysseus’s journey home after the battle of Troy, Bruce’s own work is a free, time-warping interpretation of the poem, exploring man’s search for meaning and safety in a treacherous world. The production’s setting moves from New York to Hades; its music runs the gamut from Mozart to Mark Lanegan, and the cast is led by the excellent Jonathan Goddard and Hannah Kidd. Judith MackrellAll this week’s best dance