I started out working as a restaurant kitchen-hand when I was a teenager, before getting trained up as a chef on the job. So by the time I arrived at uni, I had a score of recipes in my back pocket.My flatmates would generally rip into me for doing slightly cheffy things, such as cooking salmon with fresh parsley – but they’d change their tune when they wanted a Christmas dinner. If you’re a bit ropey in the kitchen, it’s worth practising before you have too much coursework, so here are a few tips guaranteed to keep you alive until your January exams:Keep it simpleLet’s face it, you’ll never use a slow cooker. Or a hand blender. Or an electric whisk. Dispense with gizmos the weight of pavement slabs; they’re all pointless for the average undergrad. As Megan Webb, who studies teaching at Bath Spa University, puts it: “The piece of kitchen equipment I used the most was a pair of scissors, to open all the packaging on my many new appliances.”You’ll be better off stocking up on the basics, like one or two pots and pans – plus food staples such as tinned tomatoes, frozen veg, rice and pasta – rather than loads of cumbersome equipment.Don’t bother with booksThis hardly needs saying, but it’s 2016: the sensible ports of call for your culinary inspiration are places like BBC Good Food, jamieoliver.com, and Pinterest. Housemates, especially international housemates, can be another great source of interesting recipes.Anna Jones’ quick and easy recipes for beans and pulses | The modern cook The freezer is your friendIn my first year I lived with a housemate who would bulk-buy vacuum-packed chicken breasts on the internet at a huge discount, only to end up throwing a third of them away because they wouldn’t all fit in his drawer in the communal freezer. It was a good idea, poorly executed – but I was inspired. Thinking forward in chunks of a week to 10 days is the best way to ensure you don’t waste food and money. Amy Donaghy, a psychology student at York, can testify to that. “After a long day of lectures, the last thing I ever wanted to do was start cooking from scratch. You’ll be thankful for those extra portions you froze last week,” she says.Vitamins aren’t expensiveIt’s true that you can live very cheaply on a diet of processed, orangey-beige food. But it’s equally easy to keep costs low and have a more nutritional diet. Rachel Coué, who studies sociology at the University of Chester, says: “Cinnamon rolls might be £2 but bananas are £1.70. Eating healthy keeps your mum and your bank account happy – which is a double bonus if they’re the same thing.”Think about which ingredients will go a long way. A punnet of mushrooms or a bag of red peppers might seem like a bit of a waste of your money and time when you can choose from aisles of two-for-one ready meals, but if you make healthy ingredients go far – a bolognese becomes a chilli, a fajita filling tomorrow’s curry – the cost levels out.Experiment and enjoyWant to try making an authentic chicken fried rice in the early hours? No-one’s going to stop you, except maybe the person whose room backs on to the extractor fan. But ignore them. Trying new tastes while cooking for yourself is the best way to stop your meals becoming a chore.Washing-up in a shared kitchen is, on the other hand, less fun. Wash up as you go along, and cook using as few pans as possible.My easy veg curry recipe      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   My six-ingredient, six-step fruity tikka masala with basmati rice. Photograph: Chris OwenThis vegetarian curry couldn’t get much simpler, and it’s full of healthy ingredients that make for a flavoursome and balanced meal. You can cook it in 15 minutes, in two pans with two or three utensils – so there’s minimal washing-up.The following measurements make two portions of curry:Sausage and bean stew | Back to basics sultanas 200gapples 2chickpeas 1 tintikka masala curry paste 3 tbspcoconut milk 1 tinbasmati rice 75gSalt and pepper to taste – plus any other herbs and spices you might fancyHeat a little oil in a saucepan and fry the curry paste gently for two minutes. Put the rice in a separate pan of cold water with a little bit of salt, bring to the boil, and simmer for 10 minutes.When the paste is fried off and your rice is coming to the boil, add all the chickpeas and coconut milk, and any additional seasoning you might fancy, like fresh coriander.Simmer the curry on a medium to low heat for 5-6 minutes and keep stirring.Add cubed apple and the sultanas, and simmer for a further 2-3 minutes.Serve up.Student recipes | Readers’ recipe swap You could add in potato (stick in cold water and boil for ten minutes, then add to the chickpeas); or chicken (brown in a little oil, add paste, simmer the whole lot for five minutes longer). If you don’t like the dish the first time round, think of it as a template for further experiments. You can find more student recipes here.Keep up with the latest on Guardian Students: follow us on Twitter at @GdnStudents – and become a member to receive exclusive benefits and our weekly newsletter.