Born in south London, Khan, 45, became a solicitor and served as a Labour councillor for 12 years. He was elected MP for Tooting in 2005 and was made minister for transport by Gordon Brown in 2009. Khan was shadow lord chancellor and shadow justice secretary under Ed Miliband; he was elected mayor of London in May this year. He is married with two daughters.What is your greatest fear?Another terrorist attack in London. Even though I know the Met and security services are doing a fantastic job keeping Londoners safe, it still keeps me awake at night.What is your earliest memory?Watching the Queen’s silver jubilee procession drive past the estate where I grew up.Which living person do you most admire, and why?Mo Farah represents everything that’s great about our country.What is the trait you most deplore in yourself?Caffeine addiction.What is the trait you most deplore in others?When people don’t accept others for who they are. We shouldn’t just tolerate diversity, we should respect and celebrate it.What is your most treasured possession?A piece of my dad’s uniform from when he drove the number 44 bus across London.Who would play you in the film of your life?George Clooney (don’t laugh!).Who would you invite to your dream dinner party? Muhammad Ali, my wife, Michelle Obama, Beyoncé, Sir Paul Nurse and Bill Bailey.What makes you unhappy?The Brexit vote was such a huge disappointment. Now I’m trying to get the best possible deal for London.If you could bring something extinct back to life, what would you choose?The cinema on Tooting High Street.Which book changed your life?To Kill A Mockingbird by Harper Lee.What did you want to be when you were growing up?A cricketer. I had a trial with Surrey as a 15-year-old with Geoff Arnold (former Surrey and England fast-medium bowler). He made a big mistake.What is your guiltiest pleasure?Sting.To whom would you most like to say sorry, and why?To my wife Saadiya, for interrupting too many evenings, weekends and family holidays with work.What or who is the greatest love of your life?My wife. We met as teenagers, and we’ve never looked back.Richard Osman: ‘I love crying. It’s like your pain is laughing’ What has been your biggest disappointment?Labour losing the 2015 election: we weren’t able to help the people who needed us most.If you could edit your past, what would you change?I would have had more time with my dad before he passed away.If you could go back in time, where would you go?Wembley, 30 July 1966.What is the closest you’ve come to death?When I was a kid in Tooting, our house caught fire. We didn’t realise until the fire brigade turned up.How would you like to be remembered?As a mayor who made London better for all Londoners, and as a good husband and dad.