A bucolic motorway service station fit for the Teletubbies is joined by a bulbous blue drawing studio and a crumbling Victorian music hall in this year’s diverse cohort of RIBA award winners for the UK’s best buildings. The 46 projects to win a national award, which range from a grass-roofed children’s hospital in Liverpool to a sinuous metallic library in Oxford, will be whittled down to a six-strong shortlist for the Royal Institute of British Architects’ Stirling prize later in the year.In a departure from a 2015 emphasis on housing, almost a quarter of this year’s winners are made up of university and college buildings. They include a stately barrel-vaulted student centre for Nottingham Trent University by Evans Vettori architects, a timber-clad medical research facility for the University of East Anglia by Hawkins Brown and the glacial wedding cake of the Blavatnik School of Government in Oxford by Herzog & de Meuron.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Blavatnik School of Government. Photograph: Iwan BaanBlavatnik School of Government: a corporate temple among Oxford's dreaming spires A marching industrial roofline on the Wirral waterfront provides a smart new home for Wirral Metropolitan College, while Essex University adds to the strong modernist pedigree of its 1960s campus with a robust new addition by Patel Taylor. Fronting on to a lake with assertive volumes of concrete and stone, the new library and student centre seems to have been designed in line with the original architect’s desire for “something fierce”. The projects share a refreshing weightiness and all feel built to last, in contrast to some of the flimsier private finance initiative buildings of recent years.Jane Duncan, president of RIBA, said: “As universities and colleges in the UK are competing for students from here and overseas, it is encouraging to see so much emphasis placed on the power of architecture to help institutions to attract students and stand out from the mediocre.”Four school buildings also feature on the list. They are variously the products of New Labour’s Building Schools for the Future programme, or sponsored academies, rather than the flat-pack regime introduced by Michael Gove – whose prefab sheds have, unsurprisingly, not been bestowed with awards.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Corner House. Photograph: Christoffer RudquistAlong with the usual serving of boutique homes in the banker belt, none of which are particularly inspiring, there is a sprinkling of good housing projects. A high-density brick mountain of affordable homes for Southwark by Panter Hudspith is joined by two finely crafted schemes of council housing for the elderly by Bell Phillips in Greenwich and Thurrock. DSDHA’s handsome Corner House apartment block brings a moment of weighty brick gravitas to a corner of Fitzrovia, while The Avenue in Saffron Walden, by Pollard Thomas Edwards, proves that suburban housing developments don’t have to be identikit rows of Noddy boxes.Wilton's Music Hall: derelict pleasure palace gets a ramshackle restoration Other worthy winners include the exquisite Newport Street Gallery in Vauxhall for Damien Hirst by Caruso St John and Julian Harrap’s immaculate conservation of Sir John Soane’s Museum, along with Tim Ronalds’s exemplary work on Wilton’s Music Hall in the East End – which manages to retain the magical tumbledown character of the old wreck.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Investcorp Building. Photograph: Zaha Hadid architectsAs ever, several buildings appear to have been included in deference to the status of the architect, rather than the quality of the project. The Investcorp building for St Antony’s College in Oxford, by Zaha Hadid Architects, is one such howler. A writhing metallic slug that does its best to maul the two historic buildings between which its contorted body is slung, it has already won Private Eye’s Sir Hugh Casson award for the worst new building of 2015. The RIBA judges maintain it “demonstrates great virtuosity and a huge amount of technical skill” – but with little thought for the ends to which that virtuosity is pursued.For Grayson Perry's Essex house, the only way was 'bonkers as possible' It is an odd logic that has also worked in reverse, with several outstanding projects shamefully overlooked by this year’s regional juries. The fantastical fairytale confection of the House for Essex, by FAT architects and artist Grayson Perry, was not deemed worthy of a gong, to widespread outcries from the architectural profession. Nor were Adam Kahn’s beautiful Pensthorpe Playbarn or Cottrell & Vermeulen’s stirring stack of brick arches for Brentwood School Library included.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Greenwich Housing. Photograph: Edmund SumnerIn line with previous years, these spurned structures all have something in common: a learned nod to the past. Be it in detailing or material choices, these projects mine the rich catalogue of architectural history and redeploy that learning in a way that feels radically fresh and new – in a manner that might even be called (whisper it) “postmodern”.For all its talk of inclusion and diversity, RIBA still prefers to fill its awards lists with lobotomised slabs of polite neo-modern filler than embrace a richer diversity of the UK’s contemporary architectural culture. As the Architect’s Journal’s critic at large, Ellis Woodman, puts it: “Like those Japanese troops, stationed on obscure Pacific islands, who remained oblivious to the end of the Second World War, [RIBA] is riddled with foot soldiers still bravely fighting the ideological conflicts of the 1980s.” We can only hope the telegram might reach them one day.