Moth orchidYou’ll not find it mentioned in carols or pictured on cards, but phalaenopsis orchids fly off the shelves in supermarkets, big box DIY shops and chic florists alike in December. This obsession is not new, nor is it limited to Christmas: we have been coveting orchids since the first plant hunters were sent across the globe in the eighteenth century to track down specimens at great expense, and often at the cost of their lives. To trace this orchidelirium back through history, I recommend reading The Orchid Thief by Susan Orlean. It is not a pretty story, in places. Orlean writes: “Because orchid hunters hated the thought of another hunter’s finding any plants they might have missed, they would ‘collect out’ an area, and then they would burn the place down.” Unfortunately an illegal trade in orchids ripped from the wild continues today, although the vast majority of commercially-available moth orchids are hybrids mass produced via tissue culture techniques developed in the 1970s. You can watch a video of a UK orchid greenhouse in production here. Referring back to my previous post on mistletoe, it’s worth noting that moth orchids are not parasites or even hemiparasites, but epiphytes - they use trees as an anchor point, but gain no sustenance from them. Phalaenopsis make great gifts, and for about the same price as a hand-tied bouquet, they should last far longer, provided if you follow some simple rules. If you find it hard to keep moth orchids alive, or simply want to try something different, try a cape primrose, aka streptocarpus. They are available from many garden centres, and Dibleys Nursery in Wales provide a mail order gift service for these easygoing houseplants.Poinsettia      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Thousands of poinsettia plants ready to find a new home for Christmas. Photograph: Jane Barlow/PA WireThis is the bit where I try to find something positive to say about poinsettias as a houseplant, and fail. I must be in a minority in my unalloyed hatred of this plant*, as they are still hugely popular. I write “as a houseplant”, because look at pictures of growing in their native Mexico and other parts of the world where the climate is right, and they are rather charming shrubs (or in some cases, trees).But indoors, my problem with them is twofold: they are hard to keep alive in the average house, and then people will insist on treating them as permanent residents. You can try to keep your poinsettia until next Christmas so it can rebloom, but you will have to look at an ugly plant all year and you’ll still fail, most likely. In his still unsurpassed book The Houseplant Expert, Dr DG Hessayon explains an important distinction between flowering pot plants and houseplants: about the former he writes: “Don’t choose a flowering pot plant if you want something which will permanently adorn your living room.”Nevertheless, like many iconic plants, poinsettia (Euphorbia pulcherrima) has an interesting backstory if you care to look: the Aztecs called it cuetlaxochitl (brilliant flower), made a purple dye from its bracts and a fever medicine from its sap. Joel Roberts Poinsett, US ambassador to Mexico, brought it home from his travels in 1825. Just as for moth orchids, plant breeders in the 1960s worked hard to make the poinsettia more colourful, compact and floriferous, making it the blockbuster Christmas plant it is today.If you have bought one of these and want to keep it alive at least until the new year, it requires humidity - achieved by grouping plants together and/or standing the pot on a tray filled with pebbles and water - careful watering (let the compost dry out between applications) and bright light but not direct sunlight. If you still want rush out and buy a poinsettia, at least consider plant miles - look for the Home Grown logo which indicates the plant was grown in the UK.*No, the white ones aren’t any better.Christmas cactus      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Schlumbergera: try saying that after a few glasses of Baileys this Christmas. Photograph: Chad Kleitsch/Getty Images/Science FactionGiven the current craze for cacti, I’d hoped for a revival in the fate of the Schlumbergera, a plant you probably last saw in a basket pot on your grandmother’s console table circa 1979. The Christmas cactus (close relatives Schlumbergera truncata and S. × buckleyi are both referred to by this common name) is, like the moth orchid, aother epiphyte, hanging around in the shade of the tropical rainforests of Brazil, being pollinated by hummingbirds. I can’t find who first described their flowers as resembling leaping shrimps, but they were absolutely right. The blooms come in all possible shades of pink, white and purple, although new orange and yellow cultivars are being developed by breeders. For a wonderfully geeky post about Schlumbergera breeding and all things Christmas cactus-related, visit the houseplant blog Plants Are The Strangest People. For a shorter read, there’s care advice in this piece by Alys Fowler.Paperwhites      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Narcissus ‘Paperwhite’: fragrant, or stinky? Only your nose can tell you. Photograph: John Glover / Alamy/AlamyIf you are looking for knockout scent to fill your house this Christmas, this is the flowering bulb you need. Tazetta daffodil types - usually the paperwhite narcissus N. ‘Ziva’ - is specially prepared to flower in time for December 25. It’s too late to plant now, but seek out pre-planted arrangements. There’s a secret to stopping them from growing too leggy and flopping over, and it involves vodka. Seriously.One word of warning: not everyone loves the perfume of paperwhites. As Fragrant Earth (a self-described “olfactory blog”) explains, one component of the paperwhites’ unmistakeable scent is indole, and some people’s noses find this adds a fetid edge that’s really rather unpleasant. So you may want to sniff before you try.Amaryllis      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hippeastrum ‘Papilio’ ‘opening out into a huge funnel like the horn on a wind-up gramophone’, as Monty Don put it Photograph: AlamyBefore we go any further, let’s just get the nomenclature issue out of the way. The popular name is amaryllis, but despite an ongoing debate, hippeastrum is generally accepted as being correct. Naming is the most boring aspect of a truly mindboggling plant. There is something monstrous and wonderful about the hippeastrum. I don’t think anyone has put it better than Monty Don, who once wrote in the Observer: “The flower stem develops as a phallic joke before opening out into a huge funnel like the horn on a wind-up gramophone.” Sounds like fun, doesn’t it? Hippeastrum, like any popular houseplant, have been bred into a variety of degrees of gaudiness; although as Alys Fowler points out in this column from last year, there are members of the clan that are more subtle - stylish even. Personally, I’d buy the brashiest, brightest hippeastrum you can find: they just make me chuckle with glee. I know this contradicts my previous statements about brash poinsettias, but plant love never was logical. You may be keeping watch on a hippeastrum bud right now, wondering if it will break open in time for Christmas. Or may receive a “bulb kit” as a gift. If you fancy investing in a plant to cheer up your spring, Laidback Gardener has an excellent blogpost on the drawbacks of those “everything you need” growing kits and how to choose a bare bulb. Jane Perrone is writing a three-part series on the plants of Christmas. Read the first part in this series - on festive foliage plants - here.