A life-affirming memoir, which began as a project to give hope to her eight-year-old daughter, is to be published this summer by novelist Maggie O’Farrell.The book, I Am, I Am, I Am: Seventeen Brushes with Death, recounts a series of near-death experiences suffered by O’Farrell. It was written to help her daughter to face life with courage and be aware that “she is not alone”, despite suffering from a severe immunology disorder.Maggie O'Farrell: 'My writing is tougher and much better since I had children' O’Farrell said her daughter had been diagnosed when she was just nine months old with “a quite severe medical condition, including severe eczema and allergies that can cause her anaphylactic shock, which means we have to grapple on a daily basis with life saving treatments for her”.“I was trying to make sense of what she is going through,” said the Costa award-winning writer. Admitting the memoir “took her by surprise”, she said she had wanted to draw lessons from her own brushes with death. “It began as a private project to explain that life is possible, even in the face of danger, even when you have medical limitations and I wanted to show my daughter that she is not alone,” she added.The memoir, which will be published on 24 August, recounts a number of experiences that could have left O’Farrell dead, including a “moment of madness” by the sea, an encounter with a disturbed man on a mountainside and a severe illness in rural China. It also includes a chapter about an occasion on which she was hospitalised, aged eight, with a rare virus that attacked her brain and left her immobile and incapacitated. At the time, doctors expected her to be permanently disabled. “I talk about when I had severe encephalitis, which left me with neurological problems that I still have to deal with,” she said. “It doesn’t affect me medically, but it does have an impact on me.”The final chapter talks about her daughter’s illness, how it has affected their relationship, and what it means to care for her. “I’ve asked myself, when she has been very ill, how do you carry on when death is a daily possibility?” the Northern Irish author said.O’Farrell said her own illness had had a profound impact on her life. “When you have an experience like that at such a young age, it is hard to know what you would have been without it, but I am sure it changed my outlook profoundly,” she said. It had also, she added, taught her “a huge amount of empathy”, as well as a unique insight into the lives of others, which she has used in her work. “O’Farrell writes with acute perception, paying attention to the smallest details, those everyday moments that imperceptibly heighten an experience,” wrote reviewer Elizabeth Day of The Hand that First Held Mine, which dealt, among other things, with O’Farrell’s disorienting early days of motherhood. Her most recent novel, This Must Be the Place, includes a haunting depiction of the life of a child with severe eczema.The memoir is written as a series of snapshots, and O’Farrell said she hoped it would “show how an understanding of how fragile we are can push us to seize as much from life as we can”. She admitted she had felt nervous about publishing a memoir. “One of the reasons I never thought I would write one is that memoirs can be a huge tax on friends and family,” she added. As a result, the focus of the book is firmly on her own experience, with relatives and friends left unnamed.Before deciding to publish, O’Farrell, who is married to fellow novelist William Sutcliffe, said she checked there would be nothing in it that would create problems for her children. “My husband and I read it very carefully, because I didn’t want anything in there that would be embarrassing to my children,” she added. “There isn’t anything.”The novelist predicted this would be her only work of non-fiction. “I am certain of that,” she said. 