A prominent street artist has altered a poster promoting Nate Parker’s film The Birth of a Nation, so that it reads “Nate Parker, Rapist?”, after revelations about a rape trial involving the director were reported earlier this week.The Birth of a Nation's reception compromised by director's rape trial The original poster showed Parker as Nat Turner – a former slave who led a revolt in 1831 to free African Americans in Virginia and whose story forms the basis of The Birth of A Nation – with a noose around his neck, made from an American flag. The altered version, created by conservative street artist Sabo, substitutes the film’s title for Parker’s name with “Rapist?” underneath it and copies have appeared around Los Angeles.Sabo told the Hollywood Reporter that he was “very offended” by the original poster and said it could lead to violence against white people. “Normally I wouldn’t hit on a subject like this, but I hate everything about this poster,” Sabo said. “With the country as divided as it is, I can only imagine how many people are going to lose their lives after this movie comes out. I can only imagine how many white people are going to get beat up just for being white.”Sabo, who calls himself an “UNSAVORYAGENT”, is known for creating street art with rightwing leanings and has stated that his “aim as an artist is to be as dirty, ground level, and mean as any liberal artist out there”.The artwork comes in the wake of controversy surrounding a 1999 sexual assault case involving Parker. During his sophomore year at Penn State University, Parker and his roommate Jean Celestin, who shares credit with Parker for The Birth of a Nation’s story, were charged with raping a female student while she was unconscious. Her brother later said she was “afraid for her life” in an interview with Variety.Parker, who had had an earlier sexual encounter with the victim that both said was consensual, was acquitted of the charges in 2001, while Celestin was initially found guilty. He then appealed the verdict and was granted a new trial in 2005 – but the case never came to court after prosecutors balked at tracking down all the former witnesses, according to a new in-depth report by The Daily Beast. Although there was no retrial, the case led to a lawsuit filed by the Women’s Law Project against the university over its treatment of sexual assault. That suit was settled with a cash sum and a vow to review procedures for sexual assault cases at the school. Court documents show that the woman said she was harassed by Parker and Celestin after she reported the incident to the police. She dropped out of college as a result.Nate Parker 'devastated' by suicide of rape accuser News surfaced on Wednesday that the woman at the center of the case, who had a child, killed herself in 2012. Parker responded to the development on his Facebook page, saying he was “devastated”. “As a 36-year-old father of daughters and person of faith, I look back on that time as a teenager and can say without hesitation that I should have used more wisdom,” he wrote.The Birth of a Nation had long been considered an Oscar frontrunner following its well received debut at the Sundance film festival, where it sold to Fox Searchlight, the company behind best picture winner 12 Years a Slave, for $17.5m. The rape case hadn’t threatened to hinder its prospects until two of Hollywood’s top trade papers, Variety and Deadline, posted interviews with Parker on Friday, in which he directly addressed the matter. It was criticized that he brought his six-year-old daughter to the Variety interview, and invited Deadline to his home, scattered with “remnants of the five daughters who live with him all around”.Fox Searchlight responded by saying they “stand behind Nate and are proud to help bring this important and powerful story to the screen”.Parker still plans to attend next month’s Toronto International Film Festival in support of the film. A roadshow, where he will discuss issues of social justice raised by the film, is still on – although it’s believed the tour, which was initially supposed to hit as many as 40 churches and universities, will be scaled back considerably. Fox Searchlight has meanwhile shot down rumors that Parker will not be doing interviews until its Toronto premiere.