On Wednesday Jamie Oliver and the Duchess of Cornwall launched the Great Get Together, a series of street parties, bake-offs and picnics. The events, which will take place over a weekend this summer, have been organised to pay tribute to the MP Jo Cox, who was murdered last June by a white supremacist motivated by the politician’s public championing of refugees.The idea is that this very British way of celebrating the woman who believed “we have more in common than that which divides us” will give communities the opportunity to come together at a time when this country has felt far from welcoming to all.I have never had much enthusiasm for street parties. The last few years has felt like something of a golden era for these patriotic displays; there was Kate Middleton and Prince William’s wedding, the golden jubilee, and the Queen’s 90th birthday, none of which particularly inspired me to don a paper hat and rustle up some sausage rolls. No disrespect to those who throw street parties, I’ve just never really cared about the royals (with the exception of Princess Diana). And being Welsh, the union jack bunting and cupcakes, British bulldog imagery and coronation chicken don’t really resonate. I’m sure many others feel the same; these simply aren’t my cultural reference points.Street parties planned across UK in memory of murdered MP Jo Cox Which is fine, because not everything has to be. And I’m not so closed-minded that I believe everyone who throws a bash to celebrate the royal family is some kind of evil colonialist. But in recent years, it has felt as though imperialist nostalgia has reached its apex, along with the kind of austerity glorification that has been written about extensively.The latter is encapsulated by the Keep Calm and Carry On Poster, the wistfulness for the so-called blitz spirit that you see everywhere from The Great British Bake Off to biscuit tins. It’s all a bit “paint-your-legs-with-Bisto and stiffen your upper lip in preparation for the tea dance; never mind the lack of NHS, the slums and the rationing, let’s eat some Eton mess and sing God Save the Queen, because weren’t things jolly back then?”If you’re into that, fine – as long as you don’t allow the cultural wistfulness for pre-Beveridge Britain to blind you to the dismantling of the welfare state happening before our eyes – but it just isn’t my bag. Which is why the Great Get Together provides the perfect opportunity to attend my first street party. Its message of cohesion and inclusivity is just the kind I can get on board with.It feels somehow taboo to say you like multicultural Britain right now. Say you embrace immigration and diversity, or that the notion there are streets in Britain you can walk down and not see a single white face is not something that keeps you up at night, and you’ll be told you’re ignoring the “left behind”, that you live in a bubble. Which is perhaps why I feel like I have barely recognised this country in the last 12 months.When Cox was murdered, the stigmatising of immigrants and refugees had reached fever pitch. This was followed by the EU referendum, which seemed to embolden racists to verbally and even physically abuse people who looked foreign or were overheard speaking a different language in the streets. A Polish cultural centre was vandalised. A road near me in Camden was blanketed in National Front posters that read “Proud to Be British and White”. That intolerance has not gone away in recent months, it is merely simmering. A couple of weeks ago at Heathrow airport’s border control, I witnessed a woman ranting about how British people should be given priority. I don’t like this place, I thought. I don’t like what it has become.But I liked who Cox was. And I liked that, during this post-Brexit rise in hate crime, champions of multiculturalism and anti-imperialism made their own posters. “Whatever your religion, nationality, language, sexuality, you are welcome!” read one handwritten sign pasted to a bus stop. At the end of my street, a laminated clipping of a Guardian article, a profile of 94-year-old Polish wartime air gunner Jan Black, appeared on some railings. “Britain thanks the Poles for their heroic help, 1939 to 1945”, read the handwritten caption. It reduced one Polish friend, distressed at the stigma faced by her community, to tears.The Conservative government often talks of British values, but it never seems to be the kind of British values that inspired that poster and others like it. Such shows of kindness, respect and inclusivity are to my mind the true British values, and it’s high time we celebrated them by sitting down to a feast of pierogi, jerk chicken, lamb balti, Welsh rarebit (my contribution), and whatever else your neighbours bring along – as well as the mandatory Eton mess and coronation chicken.It’s a fitting tribute to a woman who understood that the diversity of this nation is something to be celebrated. That our tolerance, generosity and willingness to all muddle along together is a part of our national identity that makes many of us proud to be British. It’s encouraging that, this time, we don’t need a union jack to say that.