I decided to try and read every new book with “Girl” in the title. Girls on trains, with tattoos, lost, trapped, forgotten, broken, beautiful. Complicated girls who may or may not be dead.There are a lot to get through, and more being published every week. My Kindle looks like a Smash Hits lyric sheet, minus the “Ooh’s”.There are so many “girl” thrillers on the shelves that they have become a rich sub-genre, a profitable slice of noir publishing with often unreliable, always female narrators, and embossed covers in shades of storm. There are so many that half the Amazon reviews of Girl on a Train by AJ Waines come from puzzled people who’d read the whole thing before realising they’d bought the wrong book. The reviews said what it wasn’t, which was The Girl on The Train by Paula Hawkins, now a Hollywood movie starring Emily Blunt.Four books into this little project, which I’d started as a sort of investigation into my own discomfort, I noticed patterns emerging, but also a blurring.A couple of the books have been a struggle, admittedly. You see reflections of better novels in them; after the first chapter you know exactly how it’s going to end. I think this was the thing that first irritated me into collecting them. I wanted to see what was different.Sometimes reading them feels like walking against the wind, other stories’ deaths blown into your glasses, shoes sticking to gummy plot points. The girls in these less good titles are complicated only in that their nail varnish is chipped, or that they rarely wash their hair.Despite this they are the radiant types we remember from makeover scenes in 80s films: beautiful and good under their glasses, and destined for happiness. And these girls have become new clichés, wearing complication as a coat.The best books are ones that dissect the messy traumas of femininity. Sometimes, reading, you can place yourself within them, in the dark bedrooms filled with wine bottles. The best ones are books I’ve devoured whole, with characters that surprise you and stories that shock. Despite the disturbance that comes with the title.It took a while to pinpoint why so many of the “girls” books made me feel grubby before I’d even opened them. They have that dangerous pull, like the lure of cut-price sushi. It took a series of tube rides deep in murder, and then, a data set put together by author Emily St John Mandel to work it out. She was curious about more than just how often these “girl” books appeared. “I wanted to understand who was writing these books,” she explains, “and the fate of the ‘girl’ in the title.” Two thirds of the time, she found, the “girl”, of course, was actually a woman. And in “girl” books written by male authors, the girl is significantly more likely to be dead. So there it was. That was where the smell was coming from. The more I read these 'girl' books, the more I understood why I wanted to read them The plots of these books don’t share much (though at least three I’ve read recently use not only the same font for the “girl” on the cover, but the same shade of red), but they do share this: “Girl” books, of which I’ve now on my 10th, seemed initially to use the suggestion of a sweet and vulnerable object to titillate. And this was certainly the case with some of the thrillers, where it was hard to believe the heroine had managed to stay alive this long. But the more I read these “girl” books, the more I understood why I, and millions of other women, wanted to read.Right there, embossed on the front, is the promise that this is a story about a girl who will not play like those who have come before. The promise of darkness and mystery – small scary stories in domestic settings, where the girl is a “girl” not because she’s weak, but because she is on the verge of changing into something else. She’s not simply a victim, or a wife. She will be asking questions of her place in the world.I started reading with a mean sort of cynicism, but now I’m seeking more out with hunger bordering on lunchian. I’ve found a depth where I expected more surface. I’ve fallen happily into a disguised manhole. While few “girl” books have a truly happy ending, this is mine.Email Eva at e.wiseman@observer.co.uk or follow her on Twitter @EvaWiseman