Can a viewer have too much of James Norton? This would have seemed an unlikely proposition as recently as last month, when the actor’s performance in BBC1’s War and Peace was exciting attention. Some fans, who admire him as much for physique as technique, expressed regret that adapter Andrew Davies did not give Norton’s Prince Andrei Nikolayevich Bolkonsky a skinny-dipping scene of the sort he engineered for Mr Darcy in Pride and Prejudice.As clerical detective Rev Sidney Chambers in ITV’s Grantchester, Norton does strip down to his bathers. But the role also risks a different sort of overexposure, since, only 24 hours earlier each week, Norton is appearing in BBC1’s Happy Valley as criminal Tommy Lee Royce.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Prince charming … James Norton as Andrei in War and Peace. Photograph: BBC/Mitch JenkinsTwo of Norton’s War and Peace co-stars – Tuppence Middleton and Stephen Rea – also had major roles in Dickensian, which launched alongside the Tolstoy. Such double-ups (or the tripling Norton has achieved already this year) are irritating and potentially career-ruining for actors, who can seem to go overnight from being overlooked to overwatched.Actors often complain privately that, since it is almost impossible to film two major TV series at the same time, it’s strange how often the results are scheduled together. But this phenomenon can be explained: there are peak times of year for primetime drama (September-October and January-February), and it benefits broadcasters to get a talked-about performer straight back on screen. Once War and Peace raised Norton to big-star status, it would have been negligent of the BBC and ITV schedulers not to open the can as soon as possible.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Satanic baddie ... Norton as Tommy Lee Royce in Happy Valley. Photograph: Ben Blackall/BBC/Red ProductionsWho's the best new TV cop: River's Nicola Walker or Unforgotten's Nicola Walker? Something similar happened last year to Nicola Walker. Last Tango in Halifax on screen and A View from the Bridge on stage rescued her from years of being underrated. Suddenly, she faced the opposite risk of overexposure when two leading roles, in BBC1’s River and ITV’s Unforgotten, reached the screen simultaneously. Even more riskily, Walker was playing a police detective in both shows. Her acting skills reduced the jeopardy, but it would have been better all round if transmission had been more widely spaced.At least Norton has the advantage of playing starkly contrasting parts: a prince, a saintly detective and a satanic baddie. And while some performance pile-ups result from an actor suddenly being in demand, Norton first played the roles of Sidney Chambers and Tommy Lee Royce before he went off to fight the Napoleonic wars. But his appearance in the sequels is attracting considerably more notice now that he is known for Prince Andrei.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Saintly sleuth ... Norton as Sidney Chambers and Robson Greene as Geordie Keating in Grantchester. Photograph: ITVThe biggest risk is that War and Peace will have brought him more TV offers, which means that – if Happy Valley and Grantchester return for third runs – there may be an inadvertent season of Norton in 2017, with the risk of critical and audience fatigue that brings. The worst thing for a performer is not being wanted, but the opposite can bring its own problems.