Congee is the ultimate comfort food in China. It’s served in households all over the country, whatever the season. Meaning “rice porridge”, there are actually hundreds of types of congee made with different grain bases: some with rice, others with millet and beans – the possibilities are endless. Most are savoury, although you do find sweet ones; “eight-treasure congee” is a dessert version made with red beans, black and glutinous rices, dried dates, peanuts, lotus seeds, pine nuts and raisins, then finished with sugar, which is made to celebrate the harvest.Congee is easy to make, and really doesn’t require a lot of attention while cooking. Ana and I often start watching a film while it bubbles away on the hob. When it’s ready you can simply top it off with any ready-to-eat bits from your fridge or dry cupboard store, we like pork trimmings and preserved egg, but really anything, even any leftovers, will do. A bowl of congee is an invitation to try new flavour combinations in its toppings.As a child, I was never a fan of rice congee. To me, it was flavourless, often too watery and looked like the dishwater left over from cleaning a rice pot! I much preferred congees made with corn grits or a millet base for their stronger flavour profile and interesting textures.But 20 years ago, when I was sick and in hospital for a period of time, a nurse discovered my antipathy for congee and set about to change it. Successfully. It was a congee typical of northern China that did it, made using short grain rice and minimal toppings (in the south it’s a bit more involved and ingredients are often mixed in. Brought to my bedside in a thermo jug, it had been cooked slowly and was finished off with some sesame oil, white pepper and small pieces of smoked sausage. It was flavourful and incredibly comforting – you could actually taste the aroma of the rice, which shows how freshly made it was (with congee, it’s crucial to serve immediately). Once I was recovered and back home, my mother started to make congee in this way – and it’s the method I have stuck to myself.Ana grew up with her own Portuguese version, known as canja – so similar in name to congee that I think they must be related (although we can’t be sure who influenced who). A loose stock with pulled chicken and some starch, it is a bit like a chicken pho that can be cooked with rice or orzo. Canja is made with anything from lamb to clams and cod. Ana’s family used all kinds of chicken offal in theirs, each time using up every morsel of a bird raised and killed by her grandparents. When she started working at Nuno Mendes’s London restaurant, Viajante, he introduced her to congee – his was made with crispy shallots, chilli peanuts and a poached egg. She immediately saw the link with the dish of her childhood, and it has since informed how she makes it, all the time considering how to enrich the meal with flavour and texture.Ana and I view congee as an exciting blank canvas. Treating it as a dish rather than a plain rice soup, toppings are a way for us to put our own stamp on to an otherwise classic dish. In this way, we showcase our creativity, incorporating accents from our Chinese and Portuguese heritages without replicating dishes from back home. Inspired by a green sauce we once tried at St John, the congee that we make at Curio+Tātā puts our own Asian-style green sauce to work – we serve it with chicken skin and dough sticks.Whether you favour congee or Portuguese canja, both are easy dishes for a cold winter’s day, and – for the bedridden – serve the same healing purpose as chicken soup. Nothing beats the comforting taste of hearty home cooking and congee is a dish that completely captures that.Our congeeServes 2100g short grain rice1.5 litres chicken stock1 tsp white pepperSalt, to taste1 Put everything together in a pot and simmer until the rice breaks down. Make sure you stir every 10 minutes or so, so it doesn’t stick to the bottom of the pan. If the congee becomes too thick add more water.2 Finish with white pepper and salt.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Ana and I view congee as an exciting blank canvas. Treating it as a dish rather than a plain rice soup, toppings are a way for us to put our own stamp on to an otherwise classic dish,’ says Zijun. Photograph: Elena Heatherwick for the GuardianAsian green sauceMakes 1 large jar100g fresh ginger300g olive, peanut or vegetable oil½ bunch coriander, leaves and stalks½ bunch parsley, leaves only2 garlic cloves, peeled and chopped20g black or malt vinegar 1-2 tbsp fish sauce (to taste)1 tbsp wasabi1 Peel the ginger and mince it in a food processor (or grate it finely). Heat the oil in a saucepan almost to boiling point, testing it by dropping a little bit of the minced ginger into the pan: if the oil bubbles straight away, then it is ready, and you can drop the rest of the ginger in. Fry until golden and fragrant, stirring always, so that it doesn’t catch. Remove the pot from the heat and set aside to cool down. Discard the ginger, keep the oil.2 Clean the herbs and weigh out the rest of the ingredients. In a food processor, blitz together the cold ginger oil, coriander, parsley and garlic.3 Season with the vinegar, fish sauce and wasabi.4 Serve with the congee, spooning 1 tbsp green sauce over the top. We like to serve this with a Chinese dough stick (which you can find in bakeries in Chinatowns or online) or with an airy bread such as focaccia. Any leftover sauce will keep well in the fridge.Prawn congeeThis is our take on the Portuguese bread porridge with prawns, açorda de gambas. We like to use raw egg yolks, because they help to thicken up the liquid, lending a creamier texture to the dish.Serves 2250g king prawns, shelledOlive oil, for frying2 garlic cloves, minced1 pinch paprikaSalt, to taste1 tbsp lemon juice2 egg yolks4 tbsp fresh corianderTwo raw fish dishes to serve on top of the perfect bowl of rice | Cook residency 1 Fry the prawns over a medium heat with some oil. After about 20 seconds, once they start to change colour, add the garlic and paprika. Season with salt and a little lemon juice.2 Take two individual serving bowls, put 1 ladle of congee in each and arrange the prawns on top. Put the raw egg yolk in the middle and finish off with freshly chopped coriander.Quick-fix congeeWith the same congee base you can create lots of other interesting different congees. This one is particularly easy – a good weeknight supper or chicken soup substitute if you are sick.Serves 22 portions of our congee6 slices of cured bacon, cut into chunks2 spring onions2 hard-boiled eggs2 tbsp sesame oil1 Fry the bacon and, once done, spoon the meat and its juices over the congee, dividing equally between the bowls.2 Chop up the remaining ingredients and arrange them on top of the bowls. Finish with the sesame oil – 1 tbsp per bowl.Tata Eatery are Ana Goncalves and Zijun Meng. They are currently collaborating on Curio+Tata, a pop-up concept with Curio Cabal in east London. @tata_eatery