Before its world premiere at last year’s Toronto film festival, there was awards buzz circulating around the drama Freeheld, and for understandable reasons.Ellen Page on Hollywood: 'Now I’m gay, I can’t play a straight person?' Starring Julianne Moore, fresh from her Oscar win for Still Alice, and Ellen Page in her first gay role as an out actor, it focused on the fight for a couple to receive the same benefits as a straight couple. Disappointingly, it was a mess, an earnest but shoddily made mess. But while Freeheld is most definitely not one to watch this week, Page’s back catalogue contains a number of performances that deserve a rewind. Mouth to Mouth   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest After a number of roles in family films such as I Downloaded a Ghost and Ghost Cat, Page dropped her obsession with the afterlife and impressed with a raw lead performance in this grungy drama. She stars as an American teen drifting across Europe who gets attached to a cult-like group of anti-authority youths. The film itself is patchy, but Page has undeniable star power.Hard Candy   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest First-time director David Slade gave Page her breakout role as a menacing aggressor who torments Patrick Wilson’s weaselly paedophile in this striking, nasty thriller. She’s a compelling antihero whose hunt for vengeance becomes increasingly depraved and she effortlessly flips between lost young girl and sadistic torturer throughout.An American Crime   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In 2007, there were two films released about the shocking true story of Sylvia Likens, a girl who was taken in and tortured to death by a local woman. It’s a regrettably underseen film of considerable power with excellent turns from both Catherine Keener and Page. As the victim whose unimaginable fate is shown in all its horror, Page gives a performance of depth and sensitivity.Juno   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The film that most still associate with Page has become something of a poisoned chalice for the actor. For as sharp as her performance is, it’s also somewhat hampered by a script that is a bit too self-satisfied, and it pigeonholed the actor for a while. But she deservedly picked up an Oscar nomination and was at ease anchoring the comedy despite a cast that was filled with more seasoned performers.Whip It   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest No one was really expecting much from a film about roller derby directed by Drew Barrymore, but this was a surprisingly effective and spiky coming-of-age tale with smart insight and warm humour. Barrymore found her ideal centre for the film with Page, who gave the required edge to her rebellious outcast struggling to find her place in smalltown America.