I grew up in a place I renamed Angel Wood – Englewood, New Jersey. Wonderful artists such as Dizzy Gillespie lived there; and it was one of the first American cities to integrate schools across race, religious and class lines, thanks to parents getting together to demonstrate for it in the late 1950s and early 1960s. We would go to church and synagogue as well; it was a beautiful legacy.I went to school with John Travolta and Ernie Isley, one of the Isley Brothers; the three of us would go ice-skating together and John’s mother directed the first show I was in, a high-school production of My Fair Lady in which I played an urchin at 14. I wanted to be a baseball player at one point, but acting was always in my life.I consciously conjure my parents up to keep them alive in my heart; they were brave people. My father, Martin, was a commercial artist and my mother, Loretta, was a homemaker and clerical worker who was living the showbusiness dream vicariously through me and my three brothers, because her mother wouldn’t allow her to be a Cotton Club dancer in Harlem.I got my ability to design a set from my father. And my Louis Jordan musical, Five Guys Named Moe, was inspired by Pop’s interest in jazz: he loved bebop.I was the second of four brothers. My older brother Anthony got me my first job in showbusiness, working in wardrobe in a production of Hair in Paris when I was 19. After a bad car accident, Anthony is hospitalised now; we had dreamed of setting up a musical theatre production company together, which would have been fantastic.My other brothers are David, a bass player, and Rhett, who works in emergency services and has also been a visual artist.I’ve had three relationships in my life and I’m finally getting it right with my third wife, Penny. I have two children by my first wife, Janine: China, an architect, and Peter, an artist. My second relationship was with Joanna, the daughter of the broadcaster David Jacobs, for 10 years. Even after Joanna and I separated, David was a guiding light in my life to the very end of his. I have two grandchildren: Maya, China’s daughter, and Cooper, Peter’s son.Our son Guppy is still in my heart. He died at four of a kidney tumour in 1992. That was the demise of my relationship with Joanna; neither one of us knew how to deal with our grief and it was a tremendous strain. But we do also have Joe, our remaining son.Clarke Peters: Razzle dazzler Grief is a terrible thing. You never know when it’s going to hit you. I had known Penny for many years as a friend. Two years after Guppy passed away, the grief got me at a traffic light when I was driving with Penny one day. She just put her arms around me and was so loving and caring that our friendship turned into something else; we have a son, Max. Friendship is a great base for building into love: that’s something I try to pass on to my boys.My belief system, Brahma Kumaris, involves celibacy and that’s not always easy, believe me. Celibacy helps me meditate and it’s an ongoing thing. When you see what happens with your body during sex and then what you feel during abstinence, there’s a marked difference in your energy.When I’m with my wife, I’m totally with her – we do wonderful things together. It’s not like we’re rushing to get into bed, there’s some really beautiful life to experience besides that. How does she feel about it? She hasn’t complained.• Clarke Peters stars in ITV1’s eight-part drama series Jericho, currently showing on Wednesday nights 