Life gets better and better. However damp and dismal the weather may be this Easter, don’t let it colour your impression of the countryside. I know that for many people – particularly dairy farmers – life can seem a continual struggle, and the hedgehog is in decline. But let’s lift our eyes. There’s metaphorical sunshine too.That lovely, colourful bird, the goldfinch, is far more numerous than a century ago. Within living memory, the marsh harrier was nearly extinct, but the other day I saw several pairs displaying and hunting over Hickling Broad. These are not straws in the wind. If I consider the world reflected by Country Life when I joined the staff in 1977 until I left it a few months ago, the story is one of dizzying improvement.I was looking at some old magazines the other day. How pathetically shabby they looked. Black and white was not the ideal medium in which to display Britain’s most splendid country houses and gardens. It was a grey time. Inflation would soon hit 17%. England seemed incapable of qualifying for the World Cup. After the oil crisis earlier in the decade, it had become ruinously expensive to heat a country house, or even to drive there. Scores were being demolished each year, or advertised with the dread words “suitable for institutional use”. A modern house near a golf course around Esher was, to judge from our property pages, the limit of aspiration.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Across the glorious park at Chatsworth House, the sun strikes window frames decorated with gold leaf. Photograph: AlamyNot that I was deterred by the bleakness of the British scene. Like everyone else, I’d grown used to it. I had been at Cambridge during the three-day week, buying candles to provide against power cuts (although it turned out they weren’t needed: my college was on the same circuit as Addenbrooke’s hospital, then on the other side of the road). To be offered a job, doing everything I most liked, and particularly researching the architecture of country houses, on what was then still a rather Wodehousian publication, was pure heaven. It would pay for me to travel around the country – which seemed pretty good. But then it was made clear to me that I should be sure to go first class, to uphold a union agreement! Even better … although in those days the trains were usually late.However much I’d like to be 22 again, there are few things I miss about that era (except the old subeditors with their fund of stories of unfortunate headlines, such as THE UPS AND DOWNS OF THE ROYAL STUD). This was long before mobile phones and the need to make contact with the office rubbed off much of the pleasure of being frequently out of it.As I drove around the Highlands of Scotland (so easy to get to, in those early, empty days of the M6), I would keep an eye open for telephone boxes, which were few and far between on country roads. But when I stopped at one, the chances were it was out of order, vandalised or had someone in it, possibly, to judge from the smell in many of them, urinating. If divine providence in its infinite mercy led me to one that worked, the person to whom I had to pass urgent corrections to proofs would be out to lunch, or was on the phone. People sometimes complain about today’s panoply of portable devices but I can’t think why. I’m not writing these words on a laptop by a riverbank, but I could be.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Llanthony Priory in Monmouthshire is one of the greenest and most peaceful spots in the world. Photograph: AlamyIn those days, I travelled through a countryside that seemed to be fast losing its identity. What had been pretty inns in market towns were being bought by homogenising corporate monsters. The brewers had worked out how to make a hop-based fizzy drink that they could sell under the name of beer, from pressurised steel kegs; I myself had pulled numerous pints of it, under the name of Watneys Red Barrel, while working for a short time behind the bar of a pub. Watneys is no more, its vile keg bitter (served chilled) long forgotten. Instead there’s been – miracle of miracles – a return to traditional beer. The local food revival is another wonder that would have boggled the imagination of 1977. No gastropubs then. If you were lucky, there might be a deep-fried chicken-in-the-basket waiting for you at the end of a long journey, or a sandwich made of curled white bread and a single perspiring slice of processed ham. Now just look at the number of artisan cheeses we’re making – said to be more than produced in France. The other day I discovered Baron Bigod brie, made from the unpasteurised milk from a herd of Montbéliarde cows – sensational!In the old days, a B&B or holiday cottage were basic to the point of masochism. Now they’re luxurious establishments, keen to emphasise the local character of the ingredients that make up breakfast. Your self-catering kitchen looks like something from the Starship Enterprise. Bathrooms wouldn’t look out of place in the Ritz.I know that these things come at a price. In an age when some people are driven to take refuge in food banks, the burgeoning of local food may be out of reach. But remember how much more families used to spend, as a proportion of their budgets, on food a generation ago – about a third of income. That figure is now down to around 10%. Relatively, food has become very cheap – hurrah!Top five viewsIn 1993, I became editor of Country Life. By now, Britain was a more prosperous and more confident place than it had been in the 1970s. The Thatcher decade had seen an astonishing revival in confidence: by the end of it, rich people no longer coveted modern boxes in the home counties but estates with sporting rights in Gloucestershire – and the more architecturally showstopping the house was the better. Following the triumph of the Treasure Houses of Britain exhibition in Washington, what was called the country-house look not only swept this country but also the US. Even newly privatised council houses had ruched blinds, as though in defiance of the limited choice open to previous generations. But not everything was happy. The Conservative governments’ free-market ideology was right for the economy but disastrous for planning. The build-anywhere mentality was taking hold.And the skies would become darker still. In fact my editorship coincided with a period during which everything seemed to be going wrong with the countryside. Crises such as BSE, bird flu, swine fever and, worst of all, the appallingly mismanaged cataclysm of foot and mouth followed quickly on each other’s heels. Farming was well and truly stuck in the doldrums. Labour’s solution was that farmers should turn their fields into golf courses. Not only did the House of Commons famously spend more time discussing this act of class spite than it did the invasion of Iraq, but I must have worn out several computer keyboards writing leaders about it.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Applecross peninsula, Wester Ross, Scotland – Applecross comes from the Gaelic for sanctuary – and it is still a haven. Photograph: AlamyBy the time I had prised myself out of the editor’s chair, to become editor at large, the clouds had parted. Farming clambered out of its long depression. The internet was transforming connectivity. In the 1970s, somewhere like Anglesey, where we were on holiday last year, would have seemed truly remote. It isn’t now. If that offends the romantic in me, I’m consoled by its having a Waitrose that delivers. And the train by which we got there ran on time.I know, I know – this is a halcyon picture and storms threaten to roll in. Successive governments, including this one, have failed to grip the issue of Britain’s failure to build enough houses and it’s now a full-blown crisis. Why can’t we build over the places that have already been wrecked, like out-of-town shopping centres, as well as brownfield sites? Through a lamentable failure of vision, politicians seem bent on allowing housebuilders to spew their developments over a countryside that generations have battled to preserve. Before long, we may need the land that developers are ogling to feed the ever great number of people within these shores, as the world’s population balloons to more than nine billion. But rather than producing a greater proportion of our own food, sustainability is collapsing back to what it was in the 1950s.But just look around and see the money spent on hedgerows and stone walls, copses and beetle-banks, often with the help of environmental grants: there may be further to go but they are already making the countryside more diverse. Scientific farming reduces the need to blitz the land with nasty chemicals. As for the money that houseowners pour into the interiors and gardens, the sophistication of ordinary homes (look at rightmove.com if you don’t believe me) would have dazzled people in the impoverished 1970s.It’s right to worry about the future as diseases like ash dieback loom; but also, this Easter, to thank our lucky stars – to thank God, if you will – that there’s so much for everyone to enjoy today, and that in almost every way the countryside is better than it was in the dismal 1970s.Clive Aslet was editor of Country Life for 13 years and is now editor at large