The National Trust is incorrect to claim that the government is weakening its commitment to protect our natural environment (Planning rules bonfire sparks green belt alert, 27 June). Preserving the character of our country's landscape and checking the unrestricted sprawl of built-up areas are key priorities within our new national planning policy framework.  Illustration:Gillian BleaseThis new document safeguards valued national protection such as green belt, areas of outstanding natural beauty and sites of special scientific interest, as well as ensuring measures which protect wildlife, biodiversity and cultural heritage, and which tackle light pollution. It also proposes a new designation to protect local green spaces in need of special protection. Far from having the potential to cause environmental degradation, the framework will protect the countryside from encroachment and prohibit development that is clearly in conflict with its powerful environmental safeguards.Condensing Labour's confusing and contradictory array of planning guidance is part of a series of broader reforms to promote sustainable development and protect the environment. Planning has become the preserve of lawyers, town hall officials and pressure groups; this government is determined to have a system that truly represents and serves the interests of local communities.Bob Neill MPMinister for planning• A favourite trick of crafty speculator developers is to apply for planning permission during the summer holidays or over Christmas, when people's attention is elsewhere. Eric Pickles, secretary of state for the environment, is playing the same underhand game with his new white paper on planning regulation.The thrust of this new policy, slipped out while parliament is on holiday, is to loosen planning rules so that, unless an area is designated a national park or area of outstanding natural beauty, there will be no defence against any developer who wants to develop anything anywhere.Britain has a good reputation for protecting precious countryside and the ancient built environment. Thanks to reasonably strict planning rules we have, since the second world war, been able to protect our heritage against the worst excesses of urban sprawl and sporadic development in the countryside.Not any more. The government, under pressure from big business, wants developers to rule unchecked. Local authorities and communities will be powerless to prevent large-scale development on greenfield sites. If you object to this white paper, write to Eric Pickles and your MP.Tony FosterTywardreath, Cornwall• While correctly concerned about the proposed new planning laws, you record "a decent ambition to involve the people affected by planning decisions in the process of making them" (Editorial, 28 July). But how far will the people affected actually have a say in determining those laws and the resultant processes?The great bulk of those involved in the consultations, apart from developers, will be national organisations with the resources to become deeply involved. Concerned local residents, alone or in neighbourhood organisations, will struggle with the effort and time required, not to mention the laborious printing of consultation documents available only online and rarely in local libraries.Bernard WainewrightHatch End, Middlesex• Peter Hetherington (Society, 27 July) bemoans the government's decision to scrap planning rules to convert commercial properties to residential ones. In Britain the price of residential property has risen substantially more than commercial. Scrapping rules might be a comparatively cheap way of getting more homes. He further criticises the decision to let councils accept payments from developers as this would allow "planning permission to be bought or sold". Really? Is this any different from what we saw under Labour, where construction of a new supermarket required X number of affordable homes? How costly was this process of negotiation to companies and councils, in time and money? The new system arguably simplifies this and gives councils discretion on what areas they feel need money spent on rather than having it dictated by central government.Paul NegrottiGreenford, Middlesex