'The easiest way to kill someone? Be a cop' – Line of Duty, the police show for our times Line Of Duty 9pm, BBC2The third series of Jed Mercurio’s excellent cop drama plunges straight into hot water and stays there throughout this gripping episode. Daniel Mays stars as Sgt Danny Waldron, leading an armed-response unit against a would-be gangland killer who is shot dead. Suspicion falls on him when DC Fleming (Vicky McClure) goes undercover to establish what happened. Sure to be more complex than a straightforward case of police corruption. David StubbsThe Secret History Of My Family8pm, BBC2The excellent series unearthing stories from Victorian Britain continues. Tonight’s traces the descendants of Peter Moffatt and the unruly tradition he represented: “scuttling”. This brawling between regions was taking up so much court time in 1890s Salford that one judge recommended the return of public flogging. It’s a working-class story, and strong feeling still runs deep in this episode, which covers everything from paupers’ graves to Thatcherism and foreign holidays. John RobinsonMedical Mysteries8pm, Channel 5This new series profiles UK patients coping with conditions that have seemingly outfoxed doctors. The stories range from life affirming – sunny barmaid Cassie doesn’t let her bafflingly intense body odour hold her back from singing in a jazz band – to genuinely heartbreaking. Cameron, a lively, football-daft 12-year-old, became racked by intense body contortions practically overnight, a volatile state his exhausted parents liken to demonic possession. Graham VirtueDigging For Britain9pm, BBC4As Professor Alice Roberts explains, archaeology is often conducted to tight deadlines, racing to beat planners’ schedules. In the Yorkshire village of Arras, for instance, archaeologists haven’t long before a housing estate is built over the site of a 2,000-year-old iron age graveyard (though, fortunately, the developers agree to give them a bit longer). Elsewhere, she investigates a stone-age settlement near Scarborough and discovers what the Black Loch of Myrton in Wigtownshire reveals about Scotland’s first kingdoms. Ali CatterallMegan Hine: the woman who helps keep Bear Grylls safe Bear Grylls: Mission Survive9pm, ITVThe celebrity survivalists continue their quest by leaving the African bush for the coastal forest: out of the frying pan into a bigger frying pan intertwined with hazardous fast-flowing rivers, if you will. As for any notion of nourishing coastal cuisine being present, it would be inaccurate to say the option offered by Bear is taking the piss, because drinking water extracted from elephant dung (yes, really) is much worse than that. It’s almost enough to make low-end energy drinks in discount supermarkets seem appealing. Mark Gibbings-JonesKilling Fields10pm, DiscoveryHoping for a real-life True Detective, Discovery delves into the buoyant real-crime genre, following old-school Louisiana detective Rodie Sanchez as he comes out of retirement to reopen the unsolved murder of 34-year-old Eugenie Boisfontaine, whose body was found decomposed in a bayou in 1997. The shameless grandstanding of Sanchez (his lines feel somehow scripted) and a production style redolent of US reality shows – but here with a more dramatic score – conspire to undermine the entire endeavour. Ben ArnoldChildhood’s End9pm, Sky1Penultimate episode of a suspenseful if largely hammy US miniseries based on a novel by 2001: A Space Odyssey author Arthur C Clarke. Although the alien Overlords have been bestowing nothing but peace and love on planet Earth thus far, this wouldn’t be much of an apocalyptic thriller if all of episode one’s fake news broadcasts, panicked politicians and people staring at the sky in horror had all been for nothing. And so, tonight’s instalment involves Karellen and co’s motivations being called into question as things take a rather creepy turn. Hannah J DaviesToday’s best live sport• T20 World Cup Women’s Cricket: Australia v Sri Lanka With Pakistan v Bangladesh in the later game. 9.45am, Sky Sports 2• Snooker: Players Championship Day three of the tournament from Manchester. 12.45pm, ITV4• WSL Football: Doncaster Rovers Belles v Chelsea Ladies From the Keepmoat Stadium. 7.15pm, BT Sport 1• Rugby League: Castleford Tigers v Leeds Rhinos The West Yorkshire derby at the Mend-a-Hose Jungle. 7.30pm, Sky Sports 2   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Rise Of Te Planet Of The Apes, 9pm, Film4.Film choiceRise Of The Planet Of The Apes9pm, Film4This highly evolved and gripping prequel to Franklin J Schaffner’s 1968 Planet Of The Apes tells the story of the creation of a super-intelligent chimpanzee. He’s called Caesar, but Spartacus would be more accurate as he leads an uprising against (mainly brutal) humanity. Excellent special effects, and heartfelt performances from James Franco, Freida Pinto and John Lithgow.Mary Reilly11.35pm, Sony Movie ChannelAs Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde, the quicksilver John Malkovich hardly needs to act, but the attempt to link his transformations with wan maid Mary Reilly’s childhood trauma proves difficult to pull off. Still, Julia Roberts suffers gamely in the title role and Glenn Close is an imposing madam in Christopher Hampton’s adaptation of Valerie Martin’s novel.