The environmentalistWe all have that one friend. The one, just like Leonardo DiCaprio, who likes to educate people about climate change and has gifted their own share of Before The Flood and Inconvenient Truth DVDs. This Christmas, you can show your environmentalist friend that you are listening by making a donation to WildEarth Guardians on their behalf.WildEarth started in 1989 to fight logging in New Mexico, but it has since expanded its efforts to protect and restore wildlife in the American West. Using your donation, the organization will plant native cottonwoods and willows at one of their river restoration sites. Each Hamilton (a $10 bill) will pay for one new tree. WildEarth will notify your friend about the donation by sending a personalized card.Alternative #1: A donation to the Natural Resources Defense CouncilAlternative #2: A donation to The Public Land Trust      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   WildEarth Guardians protects wildlife in the American West, like the gray wolf. Photograph: ReutersThe teenagerShopping for teenagers is hard. Almost as difficult as having the birds and the bees talk. Why not kill two birds with one stone and subscribe your teen to Sex, Etc?Sex, Etc is a magazine by teens for teens, whose mission is to help improve sex education among America’s youth. The magazine comes out three times a year and addresses sex, relationships, pregnancy, STDs, birth control, sexual orientation and more. Published by Answer, a national sex education organization at Rutgers University in New Jersey, each issue costs just $5, or $15 for an annual subscription.Alternative #1: A donation to The Trevor ProjectAlternative #2: A pack of Conscious Step Socks  Sex, Etc is a teens magazine helping to improve sex education among American youth. Photograph: Bill Krueger/bkcreative.orgThe outdoors enthusiast/world travelerJetting around the world can be fun, but what’s even better is jetting around the world for a good cause. Sign up your wanderlust friend for a trip with Crooked Trails, which aims to make tourism “a positive force in the world”.Crooked Trails designs some of its trips around the world to offer travelers an immersion of the local culture by participating in a wide range of social and environmental projects. For example, its next trip to Cameroon will focus on women’s health and education. Participants will help build a local coffee house and meet the women’s groups who will help run it.Another organization that organizes trips with the purpose of improving communities is Habitat for Humanities. From January to September, Habitat has planned more than 50 trips to places like Brazil and Cambodia.Alternative #1: A membership to Nature ConservancyAlternative #2: A membership to American Rivers      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Crooked Trails offers travelers trips centered on social and environmental projects. This photo was from a recent trip to Cameroon. Photograph: Crooked TrailsThe feministStruggling to figure out what to get the feminist in your life? Look no further than Thistle Farms. All the company’s products – from handmade lotions and soaps to t-shirts and jewelry – are made by female survivors of prostitution, trafficking and addiction.A safe house set up by the Rev Becca Stevens brought together five survivors who went on to start Thistle Farms 20 years ago. Today, the organization employs about 50 survivors at its farm, cafe and studio, and helps employ more than 1,500 women globally. Thistle Farms also offers a residential program for women released from the Tennessee Prison for Women.Alternative #1: A donation to Dress for SuccessAlternative #2: A donation to Emily’s List      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Thistle Farms products are made by female survivors of prostitution, trafficking and addiction. Photograph: Thistle FarmsThe Constitution defenderThere has been a lot of talk about politics in 2016, especially debates over the Bill of Rights and US government spending. The Sunlight Foundation tracks the flow of money into politics and how the government spends taxpayers’ money.Started ten years ago, the nonprofit, nonpartisan organization set out to make government more transparent and hold it accountable. The foundation tackles government at all levels: local, state, federal and international. The foundation is also tracking comments and actions by president-elect Donald Trump that signal a conflict of interest between running his business and the government. Make a donation to the Sunlight Foundation in the name of the constitutional defender in your life.Alternative #1: A donation to the ACLUAlternative #2: A donation to the American Constitution Society      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Sunlight Foundation is tracking comments and actions by president-elect Donald Trump that signal a conflict of interest. Photograph: Kena Betancur/AFP/Getty ImagesThe animal loverWith nearly 500 endangered groups of animals in the US at the moment, consider donating to the Center for Biological Diversity on behalf of the animal lover in your life.The center uses science, law and media outreach to fight for “a future for all species, great and small”. It incorporates videos, ads, apps and even endangered species condoms in public awareness campaigns. It creates memorable slogans to accompany the artwork on the condoms: “Before it gets any hotter, think of the sea otter”, “Wrap with care, save the polar bear” and “For the sake of the horned lizard, slow down love wizard”.Alternative #1: Sponsor a penguinAlternative #2: Sponsor an endangered turtle      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Center for Biological Diversity has a range of condoms that raise awareness about endangered species. Photograph: Lori Lieber and Shawn DiCriscioThe sportswoman or -manA shirt or a fly fishing accessory from Casting for Recovery could be the perfect gift for the sportswoman or sportsman in your life. All proceeds from sales are used to fund fly fishing retreats for women with breast cancer. Since launching in 1998, the nonprofit has organized more than 550 retreats. In 2016 alone, it held 45 retreats in 42 states, serving more than 600 women.Alternatively, you could just make a donation to Casting for Recovery. A $20 donation buys fishing flies for one retreat, while a $100 donation buys healthy meals for one woman.Alternative #1: A membership to Trout UnlimitedAlternative #2: A membership to the Wilderness Society      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Casting for Recovery holds fly fishing retreats for women with breast cancer. Photograph: Casting for RecoveryThe animal activistAnywhere between 3% to 5% of Americans consider themselves vegetarian. If the vegetarian in your life has a soft spot for farm animals, you should consider sponsoring a farm animal at the Farm Sanctuary. Not only does sponsorship provide food and shelter for a needy farm animal, but the sanctuary, which has several locations throughout the US, also allows sponsors to visit their special farm friend during its visitors season.Sponsoring a chicken will set you back $120 a year. It would be $180 a year for a duck, goose or turkey and $300 a year for a goat or sheep. While a one-time donation of $20 is not enough to sponsor an animal, it does come with a one-year membership to the sanctuary.Alternative #1: A donation to Farm Animal Rights MovementAlternative #2: A donation to Compassion Over Killing  Two turkeys at a Farm Sanctuary animal shelter. Sponsorship provides food and shelter for a needy farm animal, and allows sponsors visitation rights. Photograph: Farm SanctuaryThe humanitarianOn behalf of a loved one who can always spare change for the homeless, make a contribution to the Empowerment Plan. The organization offers ways to sponsor food, clothing, shelter and transportation for the homeless. A $100 donation, for example, pays for a coat that can turn into a sleeping bag. The Empowerment Plan hires single parents out of shelters to work as seamstresses making the coats. According to its website, it has employed 34 homeless people and handed out more than 15,000 coats since 2012.Alternative #1: A donation to Feeding AmericaAlternative #2: A donation to Coalition for the Homeless      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Empowerment Plan organization offers ways to sponsor food, clothing and shelter for the homeless. Photograph: Jewel Samad/AFP/Getty ImagesThe tiny humanThis holiday, buy your child a plush animal that can help another tiny human. St Jude Children’s Research Hospital is selling a plush puppy named after a cancer patient, Abigail. Each puppy costs $15 and all proceeds after expenses will be used to further St Jude’s mission of treating childhood cancer and other life-threatening diseases free of charge. The hospital also sells other items from its online gift shop: there’s Kiara the tiger cat, a selection of clothes and sketch pads.Alternatively, why not give the little man or woman in your life a gift made from recycled materials? Vawn and Mike Gray make recycled glass nightlights with endearing details in their Cape Coral, Florida studio. They use recycled glass and an energy-efficient kiln to create fun, colorful pieces for children.Alternative #1: Adopt a (plush) bird from AudubonAlternative #2: Adopt a (plush) elephant from World Wildlife Fund      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A recycled glass nightlight made by Vawn and Mike Gray in their Florida studio. Photograph: Uncommon GoodsThe news junkieIndependent, local journalism is critical for keeping elected officials accountable and connecting people within a community. Consider a local newspaper subscription for your news junkie friend. (Or, ahem, the Guardian.) If you aren’t sure about the subscription options, enter your friend’s zipcode here to find out if they are eligible. (It is best to subscribe to newspapers straight from their websites, however.) A good alternative to a local newspaper is a subscription to a regional magazine such as Boston Magazine, Texas Monthly, Texas Tribune, Chicago Magazine or Our State, a North Carolina magazine.Throw in a few good DVDs about journalism, too. Spotlight, on the Boston Globe’s investigation of a sexual abuse coverup within the Catholic church, is a good one. So is Network, an oldie from 1976 about a fictional TV news program that uses entertainment to drive ratings.Alternative #1: A donation to the Committee to Protect JournalistsAlternative #2: A donation to the Freedom of the Press Foundation      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Spotlight, a film about the Boston Globe’s investigation into sexual abuse in the Catholic Church, won the 2016 Academy Award for Best Picture. Photograph: Everett/REX/ShutterstockThe conservative relativeHolding a civil debate with conservative relatives can be so challenging during the holidays. Let counter-programming do the work instead. Sign them up for a subscription to their local NPR station and ask them to give its content a chance. Want to avoid politics? You can sign them up for nonpartisan collections of stories on NPR, such as the dog tales or cat tales. After all, who doesn’t love a good animal story?Alternative #1: A donation to ProPublicaAlternative #2: A donation to Wikipedia      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Holding a civil debate with conservative relatives can be so challenging during the holidays. Why not sign them up to NPR? Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoThe bookwormDelight your book lover friends by introducing them to tomes from a small publishing house. Almost 40% of books are published by five major publishing houses. Small, independent presses are an important source for a greater variety of voices and perspectives. Here are a few great small publishers who have fabulous books in fiction, nonfiction and poetry: Graywolf Press, Red Hen Press, Inkshares, and Melville House.Books from small, independent co-op bookstores are also a great gift idea. Try Antigone Books in Tucson, Arizona, which also has the benefit of being 100% solar-powered; Powell’s in Portland, Oregon; and the famous City Lights in San Francisco, California.Alternative #1: A donation to the American Library AssociationAlternative #2: A donation to United Through Reading      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Books from small, independent co-op bookstores are a great way to support small business. Photograph: Martin Godwin for the Guardian