Leo Tolstoy once declared that all happy families are alike, but each unhappy family is unhappy in its own way. Which only goes to show that if you are a Russian aristocrat who has someone to cook his meals for him, you won’t appreciate the very real schisms that one happy family can have, particularly when a roast dinner is concerned.Even the meat itself – by far the easiest part to cook – is fraught with controversy. Which is best: chicken, beef, duck or pork? This is a trick question to which the answer is “lamb”. But, at least it’s relatively painless to cook once you’ve decided what to roast – so much so that Delia’s recipe for roast lamb is barely longer than a paragraph.The accompanying dishes are trickier. We’ll get on to roast potatoes at a later date – suffice to say that Delia and I have contradictory opinions about how best to roast a potato and we’ll leave it there for now – because this week, I am turning my hand to Delia’s recipe for a gravy.“Everyone wants to enjoy proper gravy,” Delia writes, but “they are at the same time deeply afraid of attempting to make it”. I’m not sure of this. I am deeply afraid of many things: deep water, small spaces and rats to name just three. Making gravy isn’t even in the top 10. More frightening than making gravy is talking about gravy. If the question of “what meat to roast?” wasn’t fraught enough, the questions of whether gravy is too thin, too thick or too rich are all but guaranteed to have people throwing crockery at one another.I have an excellent recipe for gravy – it’s called redcurrant jelly, and it goes brilliantly with lamb. It has the added bonus of requiring no cooking time at all. But, intrigued by Delia’s suggestion that I add a dollop of redcurrant jelly to the gravy, I decide to crack on.Although making a gravy that will please everyone is beyond even Delia, she has an excellent introduction to the art of making gravy, although she does come across a little bit Ukip when making the case for it. “If you’re a food snob,” Delia snarls, “[gravy] does not have such a fashionable ring to it as the French jus that dominates restaurant menus, along with performed broths, essences and other such pretensions.” Indeed. All that jus taking jobs from honest gravy. It’s a disgrace.In my view, the best gravies should be thick enough to stand up a straw in and for the gravy to be spread with a knife. If that’s your preferred approach, then you won’t quite need the pint of hot vegetable stock that Delia suggests – the water from parboiling the potatoes and preparing the vegetables will be more than enough.Regardless of how thick you like your gravy, one all-purpose change I can suggest to Delia’s recipe is, rather than pouring most of the meat juices out while fretting about what “one to one-and-a-half tablespoons” looks like (to be left in the tin), pour it all out into a handy receptacle and then add your tablespoons back into the tin. This has the advantage of leaving you with the fat for a risotto, or to use for your roast potatoes at a later date. Not that Delia would roast potatoes in the juices of a leftover roast, but what she does to those doesn’t bear talking about. At least – not yet.Stephen Bush is cooking his way through Delia’s Complete How To Cook (BBC Books, £40) in a year; @stephenkb. You can watch Delia Smith’s free Online Cookery School videos at deliaonline.com; @deliaonline