Growing up in a one parent family in a council house in rural Cornwall, the world I read about in books and saw on TV (when we could afford the 50 pence for the meter) could have defined another planet. It was a world made up of the same generic components; a housewife mum (mine worked a billion cleaning jobs) and a working dad (mine didn’t and left us to fend for ourselves) who lived in a nice house that they actually owned, they also had a car and a telephone whilst we had the once a day bus and the village telephone box. Obviously all this didn’t matter to us as kids because we were loved and cared for, but how many young people apart from the other kids on the estate did I read about that had similar experiences to me? I was a ferocious reader but also a frustrated one, where were all the other poor working-class gay girls? They weren’t in books. Where were the stories that gave me a sense of belonging outside of my community, the stories that should have empowered instead of isolated?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Natasha Carthew: Photograph: PR For TV, film and theatre things have certainly changed, but in children’s and teen literature there is still a long way to go to reflect and celebrate this forgotten corner of diversity. How many authors do you know that write about the positive side of being working class? The community spirit and tight-knit ethos that meant every door open and the smell of coal fires burning and the laughter and the tears and the music, there was always music! We didn’t have money for entertainment but we had imagination, a huge band of kids we did everything together every day was a forest or farm adventure because we pushed ourselves to invent and make do with what we had. We lived for the moment.We need more books about working class kids in books but this is easier said than done; because of ingrained perceptions, millions of children and young adults are unable to read about their experiences because those who commission new books don’t feel comfortable with something they know little about. Diversity in literature fosters knowledge and understanding of others outside our own sphere of experience. It is only through knowledge and empathy of how others live that we can attempt to communicate and connect with each other. It is important on a personal and political level. Children and young adults feel respected and validated and their self-esteem is enhanced when they see themselves and their wider communities and hear their dialect reflected in books, and they don’t have to be set on inner city sink-estates but poverty stricken farms in the country like in my novel Winter Damage. The protagonists in both Winter Damage and The Light That Gets Lost speak in Cornish dialect, this was something that was very important to me as a writer and championed by my Bloomsbury editor Rebecca McNally.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Literature should challenge the under-representation, negative stereotyping and discrimination in society and in young adult books and I think we have come a long way, except when it comes to class. Protagonists don’t have to be addicts or alcoholics or victims in some way, they could just be working-class, and what that means to us in all its compassionate impulsive big-hearted ways. If you live on an estate like I did, you still want to read about wizards and aliens as well as to recognise your own life experiences. And maybe you might want to read about life on an inner-city estate if you live in a manor house in Scotland. I think the problem is about class and race. Of course you can find books that feature working class and non-white protagonists, but you are going to have to look for them. It is about making culture belong to all of us. Inclusivity is beneficial to everyone in society in the long term; ultimately that’s why it’s important.Children's books: a middle class ghetto? Stories can transcend stereotype and cliché and you as a fiction reader are the most important cog in the publishing wheel, because of this power you should demand the books you want to read by asking your school librarian what they would advise and to stock these bold, exciting books that reflect the community you live in, you should also ask your local library or bookshop for recommendations so you can buy or borrow these books, by doing this you will send a message to those in charge of commissioning new writing that you want to read about kids like you, with all the laughter and the tears and everything that falls between. And if there isn’t one single book written that has characters and themes that you can relate to, try writing it yourself, not just for you but for the thousands of young adults readers like you, I did and there’s no greater empowerment for us working class than hearing your voice shout from the pages of a good book.Why writing diverse children's books is tough Natasha Carthew’s Winter Damage and The Light That Gets Lost are available fromt the Guardian booksop. Find out more about Natasha on her website and follow her on @natashacarthew.Join in! Are there enough diverse children’s books? Do you agree with Natasha on class diversity? What do you want to see more of? Share your thoughts by email childrens.books@theguardian.com or on Twitter @GdnChildrensBks. And we’ve got Ross Montgomery on the challenges of writing diverse on the site later today (link to follow).