In a remote village on the edge of the forest in Sumatra, children and adults huddle around a small computer. On screen are aerial images captured a few minutes before with an unmanned aerial vehicle, or drone, flown by a conservation biologist-cum-pilot. These photographs provide the researchers and villagers with new information about how orangutans move through the forest, explains Serge Wich, professor in primate biology and co-founder of Conservation Drones, which aims to protect the animals and influence policymakers about conservation.On the other side of the world, a drone photographing an endangered Maltese bird habitat has been intentionally shot out of the sky by a hunter. The deed was not committed in isolation; rather, it represents two collective issues: first, the resistance that some locals have to using drones at all and, second, the degree of friction between stakeholder groups about protecting birds. It seems that the former greatly contributed to the latter, and ended up in a dead drone and stalled talks.So why were the drones successful in one project and not in the other? The answer may lie in how drones are having an impact not only our environmental and economic sustainability, but also our social sustainability.Social sustainability is the least understood of the three pillars of development, although it has been defined by Amartya Sen, the Nobel Laureate and Harvard professor, as comprising social cohesion, interconnectedness and quality of life. One could argue that drones affect these facets of our lives in the same way as other types of technology, such as the internet or the telephone. However, it appears drones differ greatly in both the degree to which they polarise people and in the type of environmental information they can provide.They have only recently been affordable commercially, so there is a fair amount of misconception about drones' agility and abilities. Many preconceptions also exist about drones as weapons of war and espionage. It is hardly surprising that there was much bickering among stakeholders in Malta, exaggerating existing differences and ultimately causing the fabric between organisations and the government to unravel. Yet in Sumatra – a country where people are less familiar with drones and where they place less importance on personal privacy – their presence served as a rallying point to excite people and draw them together around the project.Drones also increase social cohesion and interconnectedness on a larger scale. For example, given the potential breadth of data that they can collect, people are coming together to allow them to become borderless – flying over homes, farm, park, state and national borders.Drone technology also brings people together, albeit virtually, through citizen science or crowd-sourcing projects. Here, data-pooling websites connect drone-users as either professional or hobby conservation scientists to working with more data than ever before."Drones give us images which change what we know and how we perceive the natural world," explains John Fraser, conservation psychologist and chief executive of New Knowledge, which provides research, evaluation and monitoring to new businesses. The type and breadth of environmental information now available affects our quality of life because we are better able to fight forest fires, address erosion and illegal activities such as poaching and unauthorised mining, or identify which farm areas need water, fertiliser or pesticides. On the other side of the coin, land-grabbers, hunters and poachers have begun using drone technology to their advantage, too.Fraser offers one other caveat, that using drone data "may introduce a new psychological preference bias that may lead conservationists to overlook other important factors that have significant influence on an animal's life". That is, researchers may spend less time in the forest and more time behind a computer screen, relying on digital information.In some scenarios, however, this situation is preferable – even at the risk of losing other types of sensory data. Take, for example, the ability to monitor farmland remotely. This allows younger generations who somewhat begrudgingly take over the family farm to continue living in the city at the same time as producing our food for us, explains Ryan Jenson, chief executive of HoneyComb.And what about the experimental Amazon delivery drones and Yo! Sushi table waiter drones? Raúl Rojas, professor of artificial intelligence explains, "The economics are just not doable and the risks too high." Their impact on our quality of life and human interconnectedness, by substituting personal interaction, is probably not worth considering just yet.What we can learn from active projects like Malta and Sumatra, however, is that as well as the environmental sustainability risks and benefits, there will be be complex social dimensions to navigate as the use of drone technology widens.The technology and innovation hub is funded by BT. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out more here.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox