The Apprentice 9pm, BBC1As those long evenings draw in, we can always take comfort in something that never changes: our annual hiring’n’firing-fest with the tiny pointer, his eye-rolling sentries Karren and Claude, and some of the most galumphing, self-deluded whoppers on the box. As per, Auntie’s sitting like a plump cat on the particulars, but with one contestant already stating “the only things I fear are tsunamis, volcanoes and Ebola”, it’s clearly business as usual. Ali CatterallThe Fall 9pm, BBC2Allan Cubitt’s police procedural continues, and with Spector still in intensive care following the shooting, Gibson and Burns come under huge pressure over their possible mishandling of the case. Elsewhere, sundry developments offer clues as to where the series will go, both in terms of Gibson’s investigation and the trajectory of other central characters, notably Katie. Far schlockier than its most avid fans will allow, but a brutally compelling hour of television nonetheless. Jonathan WrightAnne Robinson’s Britain8pm, BBC1New series where the premise seems to be Anne Robinson travelling the country barking questions at people. Actually, she soon settles down and takes a balanced look at her first subject: parenting. Robinson meets parents from all walks of life, including a mum of four who works full time and a “gentle attachment mother”. There’s also a life swap between a laid-back mum and one who expects her children to give “110%”. Hannah VerdierAre You Smarter Than Your Pet? 7.55pm, PBS AmericaThis intriguing new two-part programme from US science doc strand Nova – which begins today and concludes at the same time tomorrow – pits us against our animal relatives in the intelligence stakes. In this first episode, the focus is on chimps, cockatoos and rats. Can a rodent, for example, outsmart a black cab driver when it comes to finding the centre of a maze? Tune in tomorrow to catch dolphins doing their best to imitate humans. Hannah J DaviesParanoid 9pm, ITVThe genuinely odd (not in a good way) conspiracy cop drama trundles on, ambitiously expecting a level of dogged loyalty for all its daft twists, scenery chewing, bizarre characters and awful, awful dialogue. After Alec’s unexpected dip in the drink last week, he’s admitted to hospital where he receives a visit from the clammy “ghost detective”. Meanwhile, in Düsseldorf, Linda makes a breakthrough about Ruben. Polished tosh. Ben ArnoldThe Incredible Story Of Marie Antoinette’s Watch With Nicholas Parsons 9pm, BBC4Ordered from master watchmaker Breguet but unfinished until some 34 years after the royal’s death, the watch that bears Marie Antoinette’s name was never used by her. This documentary tells the story of the timepiece, which remains – by most estimates – the world’s most valuable. It is a ripping yarn, up to and including the sensational theft of the watch in 1983, and its eventual recovery. Andrew MuellerThe Outcast Comic 10pm, Sky Arts The story of how mid-table standup Andrew Lawrence went from Live At The Apollo landfill to controversy-courting rightwing rottweiler, replete with freshly chipped shoulder regarding “media censorship” of his material. Ignore the almost identical paucity of leftwing rhetoric expressed in current TV and radio comedy and discount Lawrence having his own Radio 4 sitcom, and you could almost have a convincing argument. Mark Gibbings-JonesFilm choiceEk Tha Tiger (Kabir Khan, 2012) 1.45am, Channel 4This box office-busting Bollywood feature has megastar Salman Khan as Indian agent Tiger who, on assignment in Dublin, takes time out from terminating enemies to fall for beautiful Pakistani spy Zoya (Katrina Kaif). They want to put their espionage days behind them and ride off into the sunset, but their bosses have other ideas. It’s a well-staged, action-packed romantic thriller and the two stars have apparently signed up for a sequel.Live sportGolf: Alfred Dunhill Links Championship The opening day of the tournament held at St Andrews, Carnoustie and Kingsbarns. 1pm, Sky Sports 4International Football: Austria v Wales Coverage of the World Cup Group D qualifying encounter at the Ernst-Happel-Stadion in Vienna. 7pm, Sky Sports 1Darts: World Grand Prix The third day at the Citywest Hotel, Dublin. 7pm, Sky Sports 3