You know what to expect from a sitcom big-screen spin-off: like as not, it will be a pallid, over-stretched travesty of its cherished TV begetter. In a vain effort to cloak its enervation, its makers will probably wheel out a witlessly melodramatic plot, glamorous but cliched overseas locations, irrelevant celeb cameos or all of the above. Critics will sigh; faithful fans lured like moths to the sacred flame will rise from their seats feeling vaguely betrayed.Fear that such a fate might befall the jewel that was Ab Fab stayed the hand of Jennifer Saunders, the creator of the BBC series, for many years. As recently as 2013, she was still swearing that a movie version would “never happen”. She gave way only in the face of hectoring from Joanna Lumley on a par with Patsy’s endless badgering of Edina. Lumley, who is now 70, wanted one last throw of the dice, just as Pats would surely have done.Three rules the Absolutely Fabulous movie must follow to avoid being awful The first indications were that Absolutely Fabulous: The Movie would more than justify its originator’s forebodings. Trailers replete with pratfalls and celeb walk-ons were watched through trembling fingers. Ominously, the film was withheld from reviewers. But once the wraps were off, anxiety lifted.The critics concluded that, on the whole, Saunders, Lumley and director Mandie Fletcher, a veteran from the TV show, had just about got away with it. Peter Bradshaw found the exercise “reasonably good fun”. Other critical verdicts ranged from “sometimes funny” and “not quite fabulous” to “better than expected” and “an endearing shambles”. At least, then, a cut above February’s Dad’s Army and a safe distance from horrors such as Sex and the City 2.Filmgoers have shown yet more enthusiasm. Absolutely Fabulous: The Movie achieved the biggest opening for a British film since Spectre, and by all accounts audiences are pronouncing themselves satisfied. So what are our packed cinemas hosting? A leftover slice from a once gourmet dish that’s turned out a bit less mouldy than it might have done? Or could something more be involved?In fact, the film isn’t just a souped-up version of its TV forebear, as The Inbetweeners Movie was. In 1992, when the series launched, Eddy and Pats were real if low-level combatants in the heady tournament of Cool Britannia. The passage of time has necessarily thrown them on the scrapheap, and a sense of tragic hopelessness underlies their now even more desperate antics. Eddy’s client list has emptied, and Pats must botox up before she dares go out. Saunders has lost her twinkly charm; Lumley has become a grotesque panstuck parody of her formerly bewitching self, more fetching as a pretend man than as a woman.The cruel lot of the vogue-addict beached by age is a familiar theme, addressed, for example in Zoolander 2. But the Zoolander films, like Brüno and TV’s AbFab, celebrated the gorgeous world in which their heroes struggled to prevail. Absolutely Fabulous: The Movie doesn’t just take down its heroes; it also drains the once ambrosial swamp in which they swam.It cannot help reminding us that the once celestial Lumley now enjoys the dread status of national treasure, devoting what remains of her sweetness to Gurkhas and garden bridges. Yet it’s the treatment of so many of the other supposed stars of our current firmament that hangs on the heart.In this production, celebrity cameos don’t just provide a brief sprinkle of stardust. There are 60 of them in all, more than in any other film since It’s a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World in 1963, and they infect the essence of the experience. It’s a celebrity playing herself who provides the springboard for the plot, while others are also accorded integral functions.Participating fashionistas include Alexa Chung, Lily Cole, Jourdan Dunn, Jean Paul Gaultier, Poppy Delevingne, Stella McCartney and Suki Waterhouse. Barry Humphries is there, along with Joan Collins, Jerry Hall, Gwendoline Christie and Jon Hamm. There is Strictly Come Dancing winner Alesha Dixon, Graham Norton and musicians Tinie Tempah and La Roux, but we also get Judith Chalmers and Orla Guerin.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Absolutely Fabulous: the Movie: Edina and Patsy in big screen debutGracing a film with your starry presence doesn’t just show you’re a good sport. It also dulls your celebrity sheen. It may hint that your status needs revalidating: apparently, celebs queued up to be allowed their 15 seconds in this film. Nonetheless, many have ended up looking more than a bit soppy.Why are they here? In her heyday would Kate Moss have allowed herself to become the butt of farce? Seeing Jeremy Paxman and Kirsty Wark jumping through this hoop diminishes the supposedly august domain from whence they hail. The collective effect of this parade of clowning luminaries is to bracket the whole pantheon with Eddy and Pats. They’re equally washed up, but unlike the two principals they’re not smart enough to know it.It’s not just these once awesome figures who seem to have passed their sell-by date. The universe that sustained them also seems to be in unexpected decline. The final redemption of our two heroes serves only to underline its impossibility. Yet this grim portrait of a world lost begins to chime with external reality.For a generation, fashion, along with music, art, advertising, journalism, broadcasting and the rest of our close-knit creative empyrean maintained an unchallenged cultural hegemony. Its eminences were our gods and goddesses. We sat at their feet, worshipped them and dutifully devoured their output.Today, the celebrity whirligig seems to continue as ever, but it’s looking more and more like the endless ball in Roger Corman’s The Masque of the Red Death.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Beyond the castle walls, the peasants no longer pledge unquestioning fealty. Instead, the ungrateful rabble have dared to start entertaining themselves.Instead of consuming what’s tossed before them from above, they swap their own selfies, sext and drivel endlessly on messaging apps. Their former idols have become mere fodder for a torrent of democratised and disrespectful chatter. Inevitably if imperceptibly, the infrastructure sustaining the glitterati elite has started to crumble.Once, if briefly, Eddy’s trade, PR, was where it was at. Launches, festivals and junkets continue, but the electricity is starting to short-circuit them. As Saunders told an interviewer: “The idea of PR now is that anyone can do it. Anyone can review a film, anyone can get their stuff online, so it is a very different world.” It’s not only Eddy who’s over the hill; it’s her profession.Similarly, journalism has – to some extent – morphed from the heroic investigation beloved by Hollywood into desk-bound churnalism. Advertising is now about manipulating Google algorithms and bribing bloggers, not winning creative awards. The music industry has been hollowed out by the might of MP3. All of these trends are stripping creative practitioners of their once exalted status.Not that a Bolly-swigging, glitzy super-elite seems as necessary as it used to. In the excitable 1990s, viewers were eager to see sensible young Saffy swatted aside. Now middle-aged, she rules, decreeing a world of political correctness and 20mph speed limits. Her children have little interest in sex, drugs and rock’n’roll. Instead they want safe spaces and a Help to Buy ISA. Meanwhile, Brexit threatens to cut off EU cultural funding and curb free movement of the beautiful people and their Eurotrash hangers-on.It seems unlikely that Saunders set out to synopsise this phenomenon, but that’s what she’s done. Absolutely Fabulous: The Movie is more than a middling giggle. It’s a telling elegy for an era. Not a noble era, perhaps, but one that was more fun than what may lie ahead.