The trajectory of Melbourne’s Sisters Grimm – the artistic collaboration of Ash Flanders and Declan Greene – looks to be somewhat of an independent theatre-makers’ dream. Now in its 10th year, the company is preparing to open its latest work, Lilith: The Jungle Girl, at the Melbourne Theatre Company – a far cry from their early works staged in Thornbury backyards, Collingwood car parks and, as describes Greene of Bumtown (2007), “in a pile of garbage we got from the tip”.Yet while their names have become a familiar feature within Australia’s major performing arts companies, the pair resolutely maintain a sense of counterculture. “We’re still pushing the limits of MTC’s benevolence,” Flanders says, laughing.The pair have certainly used these mainstage theatre spaces as a place for industry critique. Their 2015 production of La Traviata at Belvoir’s 80-seat Downstairs theatre found itself being staged in the wake of the Australia Council funding cuts; the work’s examination of lowbrow drag, highbrow opera and arts funding took on a new pertinence. At a time when Australia’s biggest companies were yet to release a statement about funding changes, Sisters Grimm found themselves perfectly positioned to push back. At the very least, Greene says, in positioning the audience as potential “investors” in a satire against funding structures – and the way opera funding is privileged within them – they could “take the position of renegade artists who those companies and their boards wouldn’t want to be seen to be silencing, and could say whatever outrageous thing about the government or about funding that we really wanted”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ash Flanders and Declan Greene in rehearsals for Lilith at the Melbourne Theatre Company. Photograph: David PatersonTen years is a remarkable milestone for the company and yet the pair looks at the current landscape of Australian art with trepidation. “It’s terrifying to think of [longevity and growth] at the moment,” Flanders says. “We keep having very long, depressing discussions about the future of arts in Australia, because the way that we’ve travelled so far doesn’t sound like it’s a path that’s available to the next generation of artists.”The progression of companies like Sisters Grimm requires a complex system of companies: independent spaces, followed by small-to-medium companies like Melbourne’s Theatre Works and Sydney’s Griffin, where the pair performed Summertime in the Garden of Eden (2012, 2013), and then the smaller spaces at the large, well-funded companies. “It took Sisters Grimm a long time before we were able to go to [the Sydney Theatre Company],” Flanders says.Summertime in the Garden of Eden, Sisters Grimm – review And while the funding cuts targeted Australia’s independent and small-to-medium sector, they’re having ripple effects. “Larger companies are getting more risk averse now,” Greene says. “And the first things that get cut out are the things that can’t be financially justified to a board, so smaller spaces at theatre companies – like Downstairs Belvoir, like the Tower at Malthouse [in Melbourne], like the Lawler here at MTC, which had previously been the places where artists were given that next step and where companies have been able to take risks on artists – have just been slowly going dark.” It was working in these smaller spaces at big theatre companies that Sisters Grimm got to expand their work, with Little Mercy (2010, 2013) and Calpurnia Descending (2014) at Sydney Theatre Company’s 200-seat Wharf 2, and Sovereign Wife (2013) and Lilith in MTC’s 150-seat Lawler. And indeed, these opportunities seem to be slipping away: the only MTC work programmed into the Lawler in 2017 is their education production. “The intrusion of hardline economics into art I find really, really difficult and completely antithetical to what the purpose of art actually should be,” Greene says. The role of the artist, he says, is “really important in terms of creating spaces of escape from this fucking awful system that we live within and creating alternatives and space for imagination and play”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lilith: The Jungle Girl premiers at Melbourne Theatre Company in September. Photograph: Melbourne Theatre CompanyIt’s the ability of Sisters Grimm to create spaces of both play and political critique that has made the company so successful. The pair deftly balance entertainment – borne of an investment in comedy, narrative and the exciting fragility of live performance – with a deep intellectualism: in references to genre, in destruction of the conventions of theatre and in constant questioning of society and politics.Lilith, describes Flanders, is an investigation into “assimilation and the unchangeable body”, where the questions become more complex the deeper the audience moves into the show. And yes, Flanders says, “There will still be some people, like my parents, who will just go, ‘That was a rollicking good time!’, and then there will be other people who I hope will be really moved and go, ‘That totally is my life, that is actually really resonant to me.’”Over 10 years, the company has found the space to ask these questions more deeply. Their early work, describes Flanders, was “us throwing every idea and gag against the wall”: writing shows in one week, rehearsing over two and then staging them in slapdash productions in car parks. But the pair has been able to work on Lilith for over a year. To prove their development as a company, Flanders brings up their 2007 work, Mommie and the Minister, which Scottish newspaper the Scotsman described as “shrieking”. (The two-line, one-star review, says Greene, is “emblazoned on the surface of my brain”.) Flanders re-enacts it for me with overly enunciated pronouns and overarched eyebrows; there was a time when, perhaps, “we were more inspired by John Waters directly,” he says. “A lot of shouting of every line because that was really funny; characters being angry for no reason.”“But,” adds Greene, “we did say the other day in rehearsal, ‘Actually, I think this scene is a bit too shouty.’ Which is remarkable after a decade.”“It’s a lot of growth,” agrees Flanders. “If your ears are bleeding, maybe turn it down. Maybe.” • Lilith: The Jungle Girl premieres at Melbourne Theatre Company on Saturday September 3