NetflixEasyFrom True Detective to American Horror Story, anthology shows have exploded in recent years. And if you take the premise to a micro level and switch the focus each episode, the format also lends itself well to emphasising the multitude of lives which run parallel to one another in big cities (see: recent HBO acquisition High Maintenance). The latest show to utilise the format is this drama from mumblecore veteran Joe Swanberg, which dips into the lives of individuals from different areas and backgrounds in Chicago. As well as varied tales, there are big-name appearances from the likes of Orlando Bloom and comics Hannibal Buress and Marc Maron.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Available from ThursdayBBC3JoshJosh Widdicombe’s self-titled sitcom hit its stride towards the end of its first run, when it ditched flatshare comedy tropes in favour of increasingly bleak set-ups – like Jack Dee’s clueless landlord Geoff packing the pals off to a crumbling amusement park in Clacton. Here’s hoping the second run continues to hone the same sense of millennial malaise: in the opening episode, perennially anxious Josh is dumped by his girlfriend, so naturally housemate Owen sets up a double date with “cougars” Valerie and Karen (Tamzin Outhwaite and Susannah Doyle).Available from ThursdayBBC StoreScumIt’s not the most familiar iteration of the devastatingly bleak, utterly brilliant film. But this original BBC version of Roy Minton’s play shares plenty of common ground with the subsequent cinematic version – as well as boasting a number of small yet disorientating differences, such as a disturbing scene in which Ray Winstone’s Carlin takes a prison “missus”. Still the daddy.Available nowSyFyHalcyon      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jules Dover(right) and Asha in Halcyon.Interesting one, this. Accompanying the launch of SyFy’s latest futuristic drama – about an investigation into the murder of a virtual reality company bigwig in 2040 – come five scripted virtual reality tales. More complex than those 360-degree videos you see on Facebook, the episodes are interactive, allowing viewers to engage with detective Jules Dover’s investigation as it progresses. You will need VR sets to take part – either Oculus Rift or Samsung Gear VR at this point – but for those who own them, this could either be an intriguing glimpse into the future of entertainment or an ultimately pointless curio. Time will tell.Available from Thursday at halcyonvr.comPodcastBullseyeThis US public radio show about pop culture isn’t groundbreaking in its approach: host Jesse Thorn sits down with culture-makers to find out more about their backstories and projects. What sets it apart, however, is the quality of the guests and Thorn’s honest, nonintrusive presenting style. Whether it’s Spike Lee on gentrification or Shamir talking gender troubles, each episode is warm and insightful. Closer to home, Thorn also interviews Armando Iannucci and Josie Long this Friday as part of the first London Podcast festival at Kings Place in Kings Cross.Available now