Cleaner air. I think we can agree that we need more of it. It is therefore good news is that phase 3 and, indeed, phase 4 of the capital's Low Emission Zone (LEZ) programme came into effect yesterday, obliging owners of a larger group of polluting vehicles than before to either drive something cleaner or pay a daily fine of £100 each time they spew health-hurting stuff from their exhausts when using the capital's roads. For this blessing many would forgive the cry of self-congratulation that came from Boris Johnson - a sound he produced for a Transport for London press release despite having not been sighted in London this year. But the growls of the stauncher critics of his record on environmental issues invite us to inspect it critically.LEZ phase 3, you might recall, had originally been scheduled for October 2010 but was delayed by the mayor on the grounds that it would hurt many small businesses just as the recession was taking a bite out of their profits. I'd all but forgotten about it until last month when a decorator friend told me that unless he got the cash together to dump the van he uses for getting himself and his ladders around town and bought something that had been registered as new after 1 January 2002 and therefore met the Euro 3 EU standard for engines, he would be plying his trade exclusively in the Home Counties for some time to come.His story reminded me that Boris's postponement of phase 3 had a respectable justification - even fairly old vans of the cleanliness required can cost a tidy sum and he wanted to give people more time to replace or adapt the ones they had. As ever, there were balances to be struck and judgements to be made about priorities. But the problem is that, according to Boris's own study, London's bad air has been taking a terrible toll on its people, with over 4,000 a year dying prematurely as a result of it, perhaps by as much as nine years. Simon Birkett, director of the Campaign for Clean Air in London (CAL), compares Boris's reaction to all this with the more vigorous public health response of the authorities to London's Great Smog of 1952, which is believed to have led to the same number of deaths in a shorter space of time. He describes the mayor's response to "this invisible crisis" as "a succession of backward steps," with putting off LEZ Phase 3 among them. A comparison between the Great Smog's impact and that of London's contemporary air pollution was also made by Professor John Whitelegg when he launched his recent report on pay-as-you-go road pricing, commissioned by the London Assembly's Greens.On a lighter note - as we say in radio - Transport For London's latest Travel in London report, published just before Christmas, reports downward trends in emissions of both PM10 particle and Oxides of Nitrogen (NOx) continuing through 2010, although the rate of decrease has slowed (see tables 7.1 and 7.2 in section starting on page 157 of the report). And for CAL, London's Greens and I'm sure its Lib Dems and its Labour green wing too, this is nothing like fast enough. Indeed, the Greens' Darren Johnson has called 2011 "one of the worst years for air pollution since the pollution spike in 2003."There's lots more to explore in the Travel in London report (which I've read only a little of so far) and much more to say about Boris's approach to air quality and how it might be improved on. Give me time. Meanwhile, your considered, sane and informed comments are, as ever, very welcome.