When I think about my female ancestors from Ireland’s County Clare and Tipperary – renowned places of song and storytelling – I have to guess at what they might have been good at. Writing or singing, sewing or poetry; did they draw, or did they paint?I have to guess because they left nothing behind but their bloodline. There are no books or songs or poems or works of art in their name; their culture and their contribution to it – their voice – is a big blank. Were they artistic? I don’t know. And maybe they didn’t know either. If they were, their creativity probably didn’t stand a chance.Redrawing history: the feminist cartoonist putting women back in the picture Between poverty and the Catholic church, multiple births, child rearing, farming and famine, there wasn’t a lot of room back then to create beautiful things of your own. Imagination – that hinterland where ideas are born – needs acres of time, not just snatched minutes between cooking and cleaning.And even if there was time to create, they wouldn’t have been able to publish or display what they had made. They had no wealth or power. Everything stood in their way: literacy, time, a room in which to write; people to accept, value and nurture their creative gifts; the class system, their Irishness, their religion. The fact that they were born women. A hundred years ago in Ireland – a drop in the ocean of history; a whisker away from where we are today – there was Beckett and there was Yeats. But the women? Where were the women?In A Room of One’s Own, Virginia Woolf wondered what would have happened if Shakespeare had an equally talented and spirited sister. She called her Judith and imagined that while William was away in London – treading the boards, drinking in taverns, soaking up the life that would appear in his art – “his extraordinarily gifted sister, let us suppose, remained at home.” She was as adventurous, as imaginative, as agog to see the world as he was. But she was not sent to school. She had no chance of learning grammar and logic, let alone of reading Horace and Virgil. She picked up a book now and then, one of her brother’s perhaps, and read a few pages. But then her parents came in and told her to mend the stockings or mind the stew and not moon about with books and papers.Say Shakespeare’s sister, not yet 17, did run away to London, escaping a hateful arranged marriage and desperate for a life in the theatre. If she did, she was mocked and cast out, and soon made pregnant. Woolf writes, “Who shall measure the heat and violence of the poet’s heart when caught and tangled in a woman’s body? – [she] killed herself one winter’s night and lies buried at some cross-roads where the omnibuses now stop outside the Elephant and Castle. That, more or less, is how the story would run.”Woolf concludes that, because of the conditions for women in Elizabethan times: “It would have been impossible, completely and entirely, for any woman to have written the plays of Shakespeare in the age of Shakespeare.”We forget how recently it was that women – at least privileged women of the west – were freed of all this and able to create. It makes me want to bow down and thank whatever god or deity let me be born now, not 100, 200 or 500 years ago. As Drake would say: What a time to be alive.In her brilliant book How To Be a Woman, Caitlin Moran says: “Most sexism is down to men being accustomed to us being the losers. That’s what the problem is. We just have bad status. Men are accustomed to us being runners-up or being disqualified entirely.”In the age before feminism, most women were like Shakespeare’s imagined sister: second-class citizens denied the education and the opportunities to create. Women are only now beginning to more fully contribute in the culture.But we have a bit of catching up to do. Writes Moran:  Let’s stop exhaustingly pretending that there is a parallel history of women being victorious and creative, on an equal with men, that’s just been comprehensively covered up by The Man. There isn’t. Our empires, armies, cities, artworks, philosophers, philanthropists, inventors, scientists, astronauts, explorers, politicians and icons could all fit, comfortably, into one of the private karaoke booths in Singstar. We have no Mozart; no Einstein; no Galileo; no Gandhi. No Beatles, no Churchill, no Hawking, no Columbus. It just didn’t happen. Nearly everything so far has been the creation of men – and a liberal, right-on denial of it makes everything more awkward and difficult in the long run.Women are just getting started and we are all – men and women – the better for it.The creative impulse coalescing with the political and social movement of feminism is a glorious thing to behold. It exists in the work of PJ Harvey, Beyoncé, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, Tracey Emin, Christina Stead, Cate Blanchett and Jane Campion. It brings so many more stories into the world and it brings more of life flowing into art. It’s as if the world was a piece of music played for so long only in major chords. Now we have discovered we can play in the minor key and the music is so much better. The texture is different and the sound is richer; there are more songs.Six things we learned at the All About Women festival | Monica Tan and Gabrielle Jackson Novelists Zadie Smith and before her EM Forster have written about how writers speak to each other through time and space: how, in your own endeavours as a writer, it might be the voice of Kafka and his Joseph K that speak to you as you make your own marks on the page. Or Nabokov and Joyce. Or Hemingway and Fitzgerald. How great to add to this never-ending, eternal, death-defying conversation the voices of Katherine Mansfield or Janet Frame or Virginia Woolf or Gertrude Stein or Donna Tartt or Elena Ferrante or Helen Garner?Walt Whitman in Leaves of Grass asked and answered this question in 1910: The question, O me! so sad, recurring—What good amid these, O me, O life? Answer.That you are here—that life exists, and identity; That the powerful play goes on, and you will contribute a verse.How much more powerful, full and rich is this play with women voices surging in, contributing their verse.