It has been a fantastic year for podcasting in Australia. The ABC continued to raise its game as independent podcasters took off internationally and all kinds of different organisations threw their hats into the ring, from venues to newspapers to national dictionaries.This list aims to pick out some of the best stuff of the year, concentrating not on the most popular pods but the stuff you might not have heard.All the Best – Lead AffectedThe podcast: A weekly storytelling show that covers everything from documentaries to fiction and personal stories, All the Best is produced from the Sydney community station FBi Radio in association with SYN, Triple R and 4ZZZ.The episode: The show’s then executive producer, Heidi Pett, visited the regional New South Wales town of Broken Hill, which was developed to mine and smelt the minerals it was built around, a process that over time has spread toxins around the town. A lot has been cleaned up and things are improving but there are still children with higher lead levels than those considered safe. This episode isn’t about the history of the town, the clean up or what should be done; it’s about how people rationalise the decision to stay and what pushes them to leave. The Little Dum Dum Club – featuring Lawrence Mooney and Fiona O’LoughlinThe podcast: One of Australia’s most popular comedy podcasts, The Little Dum Dum Club features comedians Tommy Dassalo and Karl Chandler bringing guests in each week to chat about whatever they want. The show has featured most of the top comedians you can think of, this year including Hannibal Buress, Becky Lukas, Shaun Micallef, Aunty Donna, Hannah Gadsby and Scott Aukerman of Comedy Bang Bang.The episode: I’ve never listened to anything that so effectively bounces from the depths of human despair to one-liners in a single sentence. Fiona O’Loughlin and Lawrence Mooney have appeared on the show before to talk about depression and addiction – but this episode takes us to the peak of O’Loughlin’s alcoholism and the depths of her hitting rock bottom. After almost dying in hospital and alienating herself from her family, she found herself in New Zealand, homeless and later living with a drug dealer masquerading as a healer – and speaks at length about what drove her to that moment and how she managed to pull herself out. There are frustrating moments, such as when the hosts and Mooney crack jokes to interrupt O’Loughlin as she tries to express a deep revelation, but, on the flip side, listening to her story in full would be too difficult without them pulling us out of the darkness to laugh at things no one should find funny.Bowraville – The Case for JayThe podcast: Between September 1990 and February 1991, 16-year-old Colleen Walker-Craig, four-year-old Evelyn Greenup and 16-year-old Clinton Speedy-Duroux disappeared in Bowraville, a small town in northern NSW. All three were Indigenous and police now say the original investigations were marked by racism. In a podcast for the Australian newspaper, reporter Dan Box tracks the history of the investigation and failed prosecution over Evelyn and Clinton, interviewing family members and re-interviewing witnesses. Box and producer Eric George went on to win a Walkley award for the podcast but their greatest achievement was to push the NSW attorney general to ask the supreme court for a retrial. In December, a man was summonsed to attend court in relation to the disappearance of Evelyn and Clinton.The episode: In the fifth and final episode, Box and George set out in search of the man accused and acquitted at separate trials of the murder of Evelyn and Clinton. It begins with some classic true crime sleuthing but quickly becomes unbearably tense. The man does not give interviews and has rarely even spoken in court, and his friends and family are equally tight-lipped. After a terse interview with his uncle, Box and George stake out his house. Then the neighbours arrive and demand to see identification.It’s a masterclass in both journalism and editing. The audio is claustrophobic. George and Box are in a car, surrounded by angry voices. It feels dangerous. I listened standing in my kitchen with my finger hovered above the pause button, expecting someone to get hit. Then, after weeks of dodging, the man returns Box’s phone call.  – Calla WahlquistThink: Digital Futures – How We See the worldThe podcast: Made at 2SER, where I’m now employed as special projects manager, Digital Futures looks at how technology is shaping the future and how people are shaping technology. The show covers everything from why people pick analogue technology over digital to how mobile phones have become a battleground in the fight against domestic violence.The episode: Although its focus is on technology, Digital Futures is at its best when it tells people’s stories. This episode is ostensibly about how computers are programmed to recognise images but to get to that point we first learn about ourselves: that what we see is an illusion stitched together by our brain. By hearing from someone whose brain can’t do that, we get insight into how little we really understand about how the brain works. So how can we create computer programs that can see, when we’re not sure how we do it? Let the computer teach itself …Background Briefing – Death in KalgoorlieThe podcast: Often overlooked in the Australian radio landscape, the team behind Background Briefing create some of the most interesting investigative journalism you can find. If you’re looking for in-depth documentaries about everything from science to politics to crime, it’s an excellent addition to any podcast app.The episode: A remarkable look at the aftermath of the death of a 14-year-old Indigenous boy who was run over in Kalgoorlie this year. Walkley award-winning Sarah Dingle takes us through what happened, but her investigation isn’t just about this single case; it’s about the realities of life in a town with a strong divide between Indigenous and white communities. The picture painted is unbelievable: a golf course with 400 members subsidised by $25.5m of local government money; the lack of any affordable activities for disadvantaged youth; a mayor that blames increasing Aboriginal social dysfunction on welfare handouts and the granting of native title rights – when there have been no native title rights given in Kalgoorlie.Science Vs – G-SpotThe Podcast: Science Vs is now being produced in the US by Gimlet Media but we are claiming it as our own: it started at the ABC and is still being made by the original Aussie host, Wendy Zukerman, and producer, Kaitlyn Sawrey. The show examines one topic each week in a down-to-earth way but, behind the jokes and cheesy music, everything is grounded in a thorough review of academic research.Why we picked this episode: As the name implies, the episode looks at the discovery and debunking of the G-spot – but it’s really about much more than that. The show charts the history of the study of female sexual anatomy and ultimately shows us that, over the course of human history, it just wasn’t a priority to research women until women took it upon themselves.Better Off Dead – It Can Never be Perfect, So Why Try to Improve It?The podcast: Andrew Denton’s podcast for the Wheeler Centre explores the case for and against assisted dying through personal anecdotes, insight from the industry and cross-cultural exploration.The episode: This early episode tells the story of what it is like assisting your parents with their death, from the perspective from someone who watched their parents in pain, tried to end their suffering and then was charged and convicted of attempted murder and assisting a suicide. Like many others in the series, it’s crushing to listen to – but it manages to encapsulate all of the best elements of an excellent podcast.The Full Catastrophe – Annabel Crabb: You Shall Have all the Towels You Require The podcast: This was recorded from a live event at Giant Dwarf in Sydney which invited people to share the type of story that everyone has one of: a catastrophic moment in their lives that they retell at parties. Storytelling nights are perfect for podcasts, with each story parcelled up into a single episode you can laugh along to at home.The episode: Your waters break, your husband is drunk, your nurse makes an embarrassing mistake that leads to a room full of disappointed surgeons … Have I said too much? I don’t want to ruin the episode but Crabb – who hosts her own podcast with Leigh Sales, Chat 10 Looks 3 – knows how to spin an incredible yarn about the comedy of errors that resulted in the birth of her first child.The Real Thing – NineteenThe podcast: A new podcast from Radio National, The Real Thing is “searching for the real Australia”. Hosts Mike Williams and Timothy Nicastri tell a single story each episode, from the serious to the hilarious, and sometimes both at the same time.The episode: Redgum’s Only Nineteen is an iconic song and this episode tells the story of how it came together and who it was based on: a real Australian soldier from the Vietnam war. The show has one of the best pieces of audio I’ve ever heard: when they cut together the story of the first time Redgum frontman John Schumann played the song for its subject, Mick Storen. Hearing both of their perspectives about that moment is the closest you could ever get to actually being there.Outer Sanctum – Episode 15The podcast: A fun weekly look at the AFL by “two fans, an author, a poet, a broadcaster and a lawyer”, Outer Sanctum offers great analysis by six passionate fans – all of whom happen to be women, who are hugely under-represented on usual sports panels. But what makes the show great is their enthusiasm for the game and the laid-back style of chatter – it’s like being in a room with friends.The episode: This podcast has had a lot of great moments but, about four minutes into episode 14, one of our hosts, Emma Race, brought up Eddie McGuire’s comments about holding the AFL writer Caroline Wilson under water. This episode was the reason that story came to light; it ended up being covered nationally and led to repercussions for Collingwood’s sponsors. For the following episode, the show tackled everything that happened after: they spoke with Wilson as well as the sex discrimination commissioner and the Indigenous sports broadcaster Shelley Ware. Together they take a close look at the role sport and the media have in shaping our society.This is About – The Lesson, featuring Stan Grant SrThe podcast: Yep, another for Radio National. Born from the ashes of Radiotonic, this new program features everyday people telling their own stories, without the help of a narrator. Each episode goes deep into the reasons behind people’s actions.The episode: This episode is a revelation: it starts as a tale of how a man’s depression and agoraphobia almost ended his life but turns into one about how acknowledging your cultural heritage can give you a new perspective. Wiradjuri lessons from Stan Grant Sr not only changed his life but made a impact on many others. Mike Check – So I Married an Axe Murderer, featuring Wil AndersonThe podcast: Self-described, accurately, as “the only intensive Mike Myers-themed podcast on the web, baby!”, this show presents an in-depth analysis of each of Myers’ films, in order of appearance. Created by the comedians Cameron James and Alexei Toliopoulos of The Blank Slate Movie Podcast, each episode also features a guest. It’s a lot of fun but also manages to bring in surprisingly robust critique of the work – with interesting results.The episode: This episode was actually anomalous, being the second time they have analysed this 90s classic, but I think it actually makes the whole thing better. Joined by Anderson, the hosts are on top of all the minute details and it’s interesting to hear them shift their opinions from the last time they looked at the film.Off Track – The Sinking of the Blythe StarThe podcast: This long-running Radio National show steps outdoors to see how Australians live with the natural world. Off Track covers everything from farmers’ stories to wildlife surveys and how the landscape shaped Aboriginal culture.The episode: In 1973 the crew of a ship abandoned it when it sank but not all 10 men made it back to their families. Never found by a search party, this podcast tells the story of how these men took matters into their own hands to survive the 11 days they were missing.As Guardian Australia’s podcast producer, Miles wasn’t able to highlight his own work – but we did ask him for his favourite moments.Behind the Lines – Ms Dhu: How an Aboriginal Death in Custody UnfoldedBehind the Lines is a behind-the-scenes look at some of Guardian Australia’s biggest stories, with journalists, editors and others involved discussing what happened, and how it was reported. In this episode, reporter Calla Wahlquist brought her interviews with Ms Dhu’s family into the studio – and laid out the chilling sequence of events that led to her death.Australian Politics LiveHelmed by Katharine Murphy and Guardian Australia’s political team, Australian Politics Live examines what’s happening in Australian politics and why it matters to you. The highlight this year had to be when Lenore Taylor attempted to talk to Mathias Cormann about his job as Liberal party campaign adviser – and produced three minutes of comedy gold. (The rest of the episode is also worth a listen as Penny Wong admits to getting “hangry”.)