One of the greatest sources of guilt in my life is my failure to culturally participate enough. Take films. I live within walking distance of a cinema, and I’ve joined its membership programme but I’ve been three or four times this year – and twice I just went to the bar. As soon as someone says “Have you seen …”, I imagine that the walls are closing in on me, and I hear Bernard Herrmann’s Psycho score, because the answer is usually no, unless the sentence ends in Storage Wars.There is an abundance of rich and rewarding things to watch, the stack of “must-see” titles rising beyond the horizon, and I’m so frightened of starting with the wrong thing and investing my time incorrectly, wondering what I could be watching while I wait for the end credits, that I sit at home, scrolling through social media feeds, watching what everyone else is watching instead and feeling ever more inadequate.In an interview with the Times, acclaimed director Robert Icke revealed that many of his friends don’t go to the theatre for this very reason. He suggests that, instead of panicked, guilty avoidance, it’s better to walk out if you hate it, instead of not going at all. “I let myself be honest about when I think it’s not going to be worth sitting through,” says Icke, a self-confessed serial walker-outer.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Acclaimed director Robert Icke says of the theatre: ‘I let myself be honest about when I think it’s not going to be worth sitting through.’ Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianIf you ignore the fact that West End ticket prices often start at around £50, and most of us can’t afford to impulsively waltz out of the stalls before we’ve finished our Malteasers, Icke makes a great point. Also, once you’ve given up on that boring book, or decided that life is too short to sit through James Franco pretending he’s an arthouse actor, or realised that it’s fine to be the one person in the country who does not enjoy the visual spectacle of cake preparation and you can turn off the TV, you’ve unlocked the greatest human secret superpower. We can always leave early, or say no after we’ve said yes, or quit.Most of us have stayed to watch the end of a film we hated, and have left the cinema muttering, “That’s two hours of my life that I’m not getting back.” Yet it’s harder to admit that many of us have lost months and years doing jobs we hate, maintaining friendships we don’t care for, or being stuck in relationships that make us unhappy.Staying can be the easiest and hardest course of action. In the short term, it’s the path of least resistance, the motorway you choose instead of taking the winding road. It’s not fun and it’s not pretty, but at least you know where you are. Then you might look up and realise that you’ve been in the same spot for as long as you can remember, and have barely moved a yard.Admitting that something isn’t working can be truly terrifying. Abandoning the known and secure may, at moments, feel like the greatest mistake of your life. Yet, in time and with perspective, the only thing a quitter usually regrets is not leaving sooner. We live in a world that tells quitters they will be punished; that life should be hard. It’s poisonous We live in a world that tells quitters they will be punished; that life should be hard and there are rewards for hanging on in there. This idea forms the basis of half the motivational quotes on Instagram, and I think it’s poisonous. I’ve wasted so much time thinking “winners don’t quit, and quitters don’t win” that I’ve put up with a range of frustrating and miserable situations, assuming that I needed to fix myself and not the external problem. However, quitting has only brought me joy, and helped me to discover other people and experiences that I really care about.And, as I’ve become better at walking away, I’ve taken bigger, bolder risks – and reaped greater rewards. Maybe it’s time to take this principle from my personal life and apply it next time I go to the cinema. The fear of making a bad choice sometimes stops me from making a choice at all, but that anxiety would dissipate if I allowed myself to walk out and make a better one.If you stay when you want to leave, you’ll probably come away with your suspicions confirmed. But quitting tends to bring a rush of confidence, and the urge to try something completely different – and that’s how we learn and grow.