Snapshot: Grandma Nell takes aim in Blackpool This is my favourite photo, taken at Blackpool Pleasure Beach shooting range in about 1935, because of the determined woman on the left and how it predicts the future. My grandmother Nell (Ellen Truman) wields the gun while her admiring family look on. To her left is Gordon, her 14-year-old son, and her sister-in-law Ethel Truman. Behind in the flat cap stands Tom Yarnall, Ethel’s fiance. Blackpool was the holiday destination of preference for the Birmingham working classes of the 1930s, at least for those employed.Nell had her own prosperous hairdressing business, run from the front room of her terraced home in Small Heath. The absent Joe Truman, her husband, had an illegal bookmaker’s, run with his sisters Ethel and Maud, who managed the cash proceeds. His patch was from the Manor House, Stechford, down Yardley Road, and his base was the New Inn at the Swan, carefully avoiding the Coventry Road and Garrison Lane, home of the likes of the Peaky Blinders, who had real guns.Nell doubtless was not too worried by his absence: they had had a volatile relationship as Joe had returned from the first world war, like so many, a different man, now unemployed from his job as a gun maker at Birmingham Small Arms. Drinking was an essential part of the bookies’ life, and Joe indulged to the point of alcoholism, often returning home worse for wear in the small hours and demanding his dinner from Nell who had most likely been working from 8am to 10pm. Gordon and his brother Bill would cower on the stairs as the rows raged downstairs, until in 1939, aged 47, Joe died of a heart attack (and probably untreated tuberculosis), abandoned overnight on the kitchen floor by his furious wife.Tom’s eyes are soft and loving, Ethel’s are shaded by her hat. It is the only photograph we have of her. She was erased from family life when Tom, bombed out of his home in 1940, moved in with the widowed Nell, who insisted they marry to ensure respectability, conforming with the rigid codes of working-class communities. Tom didn’t complain, and they lived happily on Nell’s terms until 1960, when she was widowed for the second time.When I look at this photograph, I think of the hardships endured by working-class interwar families and how it was possible to overcome them; by hard work, smart dressing and taking questionable chances. And how some women could run the show.Alix Dearing Playlist: Singing along with Mum – and Ray Davies   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Listen to Lola by the KinksLola by the Kinks“Boys will be boys and girls will be girls / It’s a mixed up, muddled up, shook up world except for Lola / L-L-L-L-Lola”I was about 10 when I discovered the Kinks. I must have heard some of their songs on the radio, Lola included, but it was picking up what I’ve since discovered is a relatively obscure version of The Singles Collection that provided me with the perfect introduction to their golden era. I can vividly recall driving around Cornwall’s narrow country lanes, these songs becoming the soundtrack of the summer, and, later, my life.Lola was a particular favourite for my mother and me. As soon as we hear the well-known chords of its intro, we both break into massive grins, because we know we have to sing along. It’s a guaranteed pick-us-up if we’re on a long car journey, the monotony of uninterrupted motorways broken by joyous singing and air-guitaring.It’s been over a decade, and Ray Davies has become my idol. In October 2013, when he released a new book, I was there at a signing in London, spilling my love and admiration out to him. When he last toured, in 2012, Mum and I were there, singing along, somewhat in awe. It is to her that I have gone on about reunion rumours, and her that I have pestered about the new musical based on their early career.The Kinks were formed in early 1964. So was my mother. My adoration for the band, and her enjoyment of their work, has brought us closer together. Ben ListWe love to eat: Uncle Bob’s secret recipe tablet      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sue Turner’s Uncle Bob’s secret-recipe tabletIngredients900g (2lb) soft brown sugar (tastes slightly more caramel-like than if you use white sugar, but very personal) 125g (4.5oz) butter (do not reduce amount)1 tin condensed sweetened milk (Nothing else works as well)150ml (1/4pt) milk1/2 tsp vanilla extractPut all the ingredients (except vanilla) in a large pan – larger than you think, as it more than doubles in size. Keep stirring and simmer for 45 minutes. Add vanilla. Whisk for 20 minutes – be very careful as very hot. Test by putting small amount on a cold saucer. Leave for a couple of minutes, then drag your finger over the mixture – if it appears set and wrinkles, it is ready.Line a flat baking tray with baking parchment and grease it. Pour mixture into tray and spread evenly. Score the mixture with a knife into small squares ready for when it hardens. Cool overnight (takes about two hours).Uncle Bob was a real character, always the life and soul of parties. His Hogmanays were renowned and he was always full of energy ready to dance through the night well into his 80s and then “first foot” the neighbours, taking coal, salt and bread (for warmth, good health and nourishment).He was raised in the north of Scotland by two female cousins: he never knew his own family after the war. His strong accent was difficult to understand at times. He spoke Doric (the north-east Scotland dialect). Uncle Bob made this tablet for family visits and dos and I remember a big family reunion when I was a little girl where people rushed to get a small piece.The recipe was passed down through the family. It had pride of place at this year’s family reunion, where 87 members of the clan came together. Auntie Mary recalled tales of Bob’s travels and many shaggy dog stories. It was always known as the secret family recipe. I asked why and was told the simmering and whisking was longer than most and added to the lightness. Brown sugar was a more recent addition, but improved the flavour, making it more caramel-like. On occasions, Uncle Bob made it with scotch whisky (of course!). Sue TurnerWe’d love to hear your storiesWe will pay £25 for every Letter to, Playlist, Snapshot or We Love to Eat we publish. Write to Family Life, The Guardian, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU or email family@theguardian.com. Please include your address and phone number.