During every Clarkson-fronted car review, there is a moment where Jeremy, having dutifully listed the engine specs and new features of the vehicle in question, ceremonially disables the driving-assist technology. A newly unleashed engine roars. Tyres screech in protest. The car hurtles round the next corner sideways, often with a worrying wobble. Clarkson, his expression oscillating between glee and terror, bellows “CRIKEY!” or somesuch. The suggestion is that, having stripped away all the manufacturer’s fail-safes and ABS nonsense, he is finally grappling with the car’s true nature, and that experiencing such rawness is exhilarating.This no-safety-net pantomime happens twice in the new episode of The Grand Tour, as Richard Hammond and Clarkson deactivate all the hi-tech to coax exuberant drifts and rubber-melting burnouts from a Ford Mustang and a Ford Focus RS respectively. If a machine can have soul – a word thrown around a lot in motoring journalism – this is apparently how you find it. But what about The Grand Tour itself? For all its profligate posturing and antic immaturity, we’re now six episodes in and it has yet to escape the shadow of its forebear. It is still, basically, Top Gear shtick, albeit now on a budget rivalling a small country’s GDP. There is certainly no shortage of fireworks, as Clarkson, Hammond and James May seem determined to burn through as much of Amazon’s slush fund as possible. But where is the show’s soul?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Decorate the poles with tinsel … fa la la la la, la la la la. Photograph: Ellis O'BrianIt probably doesn’t help that The Grand Tour is (to use a word that draws an involuntary grimace from Clarkson) a hybrid. Most TV projects originated by streaming services, emancipated from the tyranny of a schedule, arrive in a jumbo bingeable feast. The Grand Tour’s current weekly timetable is a bodging of new and old TV models: deluxe content designed to loiter in Amazon’s databanks for ever that still tries to reflect a weekly worldview. That means a nod to Christmas this week, with Clarkson, Hammond and May pitching up in Lapland, decorating their tentpoles with some tinsel to get the Finnish studio audience in a festive mood and presenting a self-consciously wacky gift guide segment. (That Santa spirit must be infectious: Amazon have made the first episode of The Grand Tour free to watch in the UK until midnight on Boxing Day.)We are now roughly halfway through its first season and The Grand Tour has certainly found a groove. A grab-bag of running gags has been established: a drone camera will be totalled in the opening credits; there will be some comedy mime work in the Conversation Street intro; celebrity guests will all seem to die. The problem is that it already feels rote. Instead of unleashing chaos, Amazon’s relatively hands-off editorial policy appears to have given Clarkson, Hammond and May nothing to chafe against. The Grand Tour feels locked in cruise control, content to remix existing Top Gear greatest hits rather than find something new.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   For haters, this is the perfect symbol for The Grand Tour – the zombified corpse of Top Gear stretched out over a second-hand chassis. Photograph: Ellis O'BrianA fortnight ago, Clarkson assembled a sustainable vehicle out of animal bones and slaughterhouse viscera, a nightmarish combination of The Walking Dead and Fred Flintstone’s car. Here, for haters, was the perfect symbol for The Grand Tour – the zombified corpse of Top Gear stretched out over a second-hand chassis. Such visual metaphors abound: in the Christmas episode, Clarkson is pictured chomping on an enormous wedge of cheese. It’s an attempt to wind up Hammond, as he brings his beloved Mustang to the picturesque Cheddar Gorge. But anyone who has ever found themselves biting into a whole cheese will tell you that such behaviour is usually a reliable indicator that you have set aside all your aspirations and hopes of becoming your better self. Big Jezza, between bites, is clearly coasting.There is still time for The Grand Tour to evolve, to show us what Clarkson, Hammond and May are really made of. Next week’s two-part instalment will break with the current routine, even if it harks back to their BBC heyday: instead of lugging that big tent around, the gearhead trio will be charging round Namibia in beach buggies on an enjoyably pointless journey dictated by the whims of invisible producers. But if you are genuinely interested in seeing one of The Grand Tour’s presenters stripped of all the pomp and padding of his current vehicle, James May quietly returns to BBC4 on 28 December for The Christmas Reassembler. No fireworks, no flim-flammery: just a man attempting to reconstruct a 1972 Hornby Flying Scotsman model train from its component parts. I cannot wait.