While I was reading this book numerous people asked what it is about. My answer was simple: it is a hybrid of folklore and fiction. When you think about wolves, the first story that comes to your mind is probably Little Red Riding Hood - but this story is not about her, it is about Robin Hood. Yes, Robin Hood, someone who was never talked about with a wolf. What if I told you that Robin Hood was blind? What if I tell you that his true love Marian was a destroying angel? What if everything you ever knew about Robin Hood was false and much darker than the boy who stole from the rich and gave to the poor?Shadow of the Wolf is the story of a boy named Robin Loxley whose life takes huge turns when he found himself stranded in the woods for the first time aged 7. The woods were terrifying and no one ever returned alive after spending a night in the forest. However, after weeks of loitering around he found his way back, but when he returned nothing was the same, his family was gone and everyone treated him like he was cursed. He ran away. He only goal was to survive and find his family. In the woods, one day he met Marian, a young immature girl running away from her servants. They became fast friends. Marian educated him in a way no one else could have: she told him unusual stories about the woods and the creatures who live in it. They were fiction but somewhere they both knew it was much more than that. They had the best time together before they were cruelly separated by a series of unfortunate events. A powerful man was hunting for both of them without their knowledge. They both realized that this man, Sheriff, was the reason of all their sufferings ever since they were born. What does the Sheriff want? What will they do? What can they do? This is a story of two kids who grew up way too early. This is a story about suffering and loss of innocence.This is a story where nightmares come true.This is a story where magic and myth takes over.This is a story about undying love that keeps you alive in the worst of times. This is a story with way too many cliff-hangers.Overall, this book deserves a big round of applause. Altering an age-old folklore and transforming it into a much thrilling and dark is not something that happens easily. It was great read and I can’t wait for the next book. Rating: 4/5• Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!