What is worse than a classroom on a wet lunchbreak, when nobody has spoken to you since maths, and Helen’s brother thinks you look like “a fat Darth Vader” and everybody’s going to sit by the field after school except you. Nothing. The answer is nothing. To sit alone with a warming Diet Coke and pretend you’re reading a magazine, when in fact your eyes have been fixed on the same line for 12 minutes – “The secret to true spex-appeal! The secret to true spex-appeal!” – listening to people who yesterday were your best friends laugh far too loudly about something that you’re pretty sure is the smell of your house, that is the worst thing in the world, and I include most gradations of war.Like many women, the most real version of me remains forever 15 years old. Looking out through crow’s feet are eyes that can, with one wet blink, see the power struggles and groping uncertainty of a bedroom yellow with vanilla-scented tealights – there aren’t many times in your life when “Truth” is a party game. So it was with interest that I read about Wimbledon High School’s employment of an education consultant to teach the pupils how to manage the intensity of female friendships. I have never laughed more than when I was at a school I hated. We were like new foals, but armed with very sharp knives Rather than exams, the school’s headteacher Jane Lunnon said of her students: “The big driver in years eight and nine are their friendships. We recognise that what you teach them about failure in academics is also relevant to the way they manage their social relationships. They are learning,” she added, “there will be disappointments as part of friendships and that’s OK.” She hired consultant Emma Gleadhill to teach the female students about relationships on and off social media. “[Online] they can get relentless messages that suggest everyone else is more popular or their friends care about them more. Kids are more exuberant and effusive on social media and ‘I love you’ is thrown around online when it never would have been in real life. It seems really crucially important that we are teaching children about the realities of relationships and that they won’t always be rainbow coloured and sparkling.”But Miss, sometimes, for a while, they really are. The dark makes the light even brighter – the evil insecurities making moments of comfort even warmer. Teenage girls knit themselves together like fishtail braids, hugging when they meet, hugging when they leave. I have never laughed more than I did when I was at a school I hated. But we were mean for sport – we held up shields of meanness. We were like new foals, barely able to walk, but armed with very sharp knives. Only someone who sleeps with their forehead covered in toothpaste knows what damage a quiet sideways comment about a classmate’s T-zone could do. What could an education consultant teach students that would help them cope with cuts like that? What could she teach girls that would hack through the awful realness?I hope she told them that these were their great loves. That the feelings they are battered by in the queue for chips are feelings they are unlikely to feel again until they are too old to enjoy them, the way the agony makes their arm bones hurt, the way the laughter makes them limp. That if they can deal with the cruelty of a teenage girl then they can deal with almost anything. Drugless childbirth is a piece of piss compared with the pain of being left out of a joint 14th-birthday present. That it is easy to forget that you are only a few steps into a long, busy life and that like menstrual cramps, this too shall pass.It’s hard to explain that yes, this is real, this active agony, but that also that one day you will be less raw, your heart thick as if scarred, and you will look back at these feelings with something like nostalgia. This is anthropology, this is Year 9 PE, and this is the damage that forms a person. I hope she told them, to rather than simply avoid these intense relationships, or get over them as if a cold, to revel in them a little. To appreciate the honesty and passion of a relationship established in whispers, and its horrible, rainbow, sparkling depths.Email Eva at e.wiseman@observer.co.uk or follow her on Twitter @EvaWiseman