The BBC presenter Jeremy Vine has published video footage showing a driver threatening to knock him out and allegedly assaulting him while he was on his bicycle.Vine said the incident took place while he was commuting through Kensington, west London, on Friday. The Metropolitan police said it had no record of an incident being reported.The footage, posted on Facebook on Tuesday, shows Vine coming to a stop as a black car drives close to his bike. He explains to her that he is trying to stay a car’s width away from the parked cars on both sides of the narrow street. But the woman gets out of the car and starts hurling abuse at him.She says: “Why the fuck would you stop in front of a car. You don’t respect your fucking life. Move your bike, move your bike. I could have hit you and I’d be done for a murder. Get the fuck out of the road. Fucking idiot, now fuck off. You lot piss me off.”Vine said she began “kicking out” during the tirade, although this cannot be seen on the footage. After shouting at him she gets back in her car and begins tailing him again, at one point nearly hitting a parked vehicle. The pair clash again in an incident that Vine said took place 30 seconds later. The woman, in front of him at this point, stops her car at a red traffic light at a junction and approaches him again. As Vine implores her not to hit him – warning her “You’ve already assaulted me” – she says: “If you take a picture of my car I’m going to knock you out because that’s my personal belonging, don’t fucking take a picture.”She then goes to her vehicle and Vine claims that as he drew up beside her she formed her hand into the shape of a gun which she then pretended to aim and fire at him, although, again, this can not be seen in the footage.Vine wrote on Facebook: “I hate to overload our hard-working London police with footage from my commute, but I feel the person you see on the tape will at some point hurt someone very badly – either with her car or in a direct personal assault. See what you think.”