Standing at the front of his family’s Chinese supermarket in Nechells, Birmingham, Brian Yip is moved to philosophy by a display of jasmine rice. “For a non-religious race, we’re actually very superstitious,” he muses, stroking the top bag (“New Crop 2017!”) fondly. “At this time of year, rice is a big thing; if the rice pots are full, the new year will be fruitful.” Things here look pretty fruitful already: it may still be run by the family that started it almost half a century ago, but Wing Yip is now the UK’s leading Oriental grocer, supplying everyone from the restaurant trade and big beasts such as Tesco to the mothers and toddlers I can see doing their weekly shop.A month after Christmas, Wing Yip is gearing up for the biggest date in its calendar; the Chinese New Year festival begins on Saturday, kicking off the year of the rooster (though if the meat counter is anything to go by, roast duck is likely to be more popular at the traditional New Year dinner) and fortune cookies, candied water chestnuts, crates of oranges and boxes of noodles are piled up around the store, while staff buzz around like soldiers preparing for battle.Do fights break out over the last bronzed bird, I wonder? After all, the Waitrose turkey queue has been known to get a bit fractious before the big day. Yip admits there was once a bit of a scene when someone’s reserved lobster got sold by mistake “and the guy started throwing stuff – but we generally try to get enough in for everyone”. And because Chinese factories take an entire month off for New Year to allow migrant workers to go home to their families, that means starting stockpiling in October.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Brian Yip checks the shelves in Wing Yip’s Birmingham supermarket. Photograph: Caters PhotographicThat all-important “extra premium selected rice”, priced at £18.88 for a 20kg bag “because eight is a lucky number”, is already flying off the shelves … if flying is the right word for something weighing 20kg. Yip, who has been working for his father’s business since the age of 14, remembers the days “before health and safety” when rice came in 45kg sacks – “we used to have another name for them, because they gave you a hernia lifting them. It was,” he pauses carefully, “quite a rude name.”But workplace legislation isn’t the only thing to have changed since Wing Yip opened his first grocer’s shop in 1970, a decade after stepping off the boat from Hong Kong to wash dishes in a Chinese restaurant in Hull. Now the Wing Yip brand has four superstores nationwide with an annual turnover of more than £100m, and its founder has an OBE: “As my dad likes to say, ‘Not bad for a waiter!’”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘At this time of year, rice is a big thing.’ Photograph: Caters PhotographicThere is little doubt that, for Wing Yip and his brothers, it was a case of right place, right time – but also of “doing it right”. Yip senior, who we bump into on his way to the workplace canteen to eat lunch with his staff (on today’s menu: steamed sea bass, soya chicken, pak choi, mooli and rice), informs us with some glee that, when former M&S boss Stuart Rose once asked him why they didn’t stock bread and butter, he told him that he could keep that particular market – “but everything east of Suez, that’s ours”.Though it’s hard to imagine an immigrant making the same waves today (Wing Yip himself was a child refugee, driven out of mainland China by the Japanese invasion), his son believes technology offers unprecedented opportunities: “My uncle used to spend three, four months a year in China sourcing products – now, one email and I can have a sample on my desk the next day. It’s changed everything.”And the retail landscape is changing, too: where once much of Britain’s Chinese population came from Hong Kong and the south-east to work, the country’s newfound prosperity means that increasing numbers are coming from all over to study – and they come hungry. Brian Yip jokes that the old stereotype of the Chinese mother “packing you off to university with a suitcase and a box of instant noodles” still holds true, but the store now has almost an entire aisle devoted to the lurid pink lotus-paste buns in the shape of peaches (which look suspiciously like bottoms) and fluffy bao popular in the north.They have had 19-year-olds driving Lamborghinis in to shop he says, though mostly the rich students eat out: “To be honest, I think that without them, Chinatowns would struggle.” Though he describes these young foodies as trend junkies (“a new noodle comes on the scene and it’s really big … but they come and go very quickly”) Wing Yip isn’t immune to western fads either. There is a small display of gluten-free products (more for British customers, Yip says. “I’ve never met a Chinese person who can’t tolerate gluten”), while his marketing assistant, Emma Lim, tells me that the popular meat substitute jackfruit “is massive right now”. In her other role as development chef, she has been playing around with the condensed coconut milk the store has begun importing from Thailand for the dairy-free market (it makes great caramel, apparently).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Wing Yip draws its products from all across China, reflecting the wider origins of Britain’s Chinese community. Photograph: Caters PhotographicChinese customers are fussy in a different way. The Chinese broccoli comes overnight from the Far East, Yip says, because, though it can be grown in Spain, “it just doesn’t taste the same. Our culture is very particular about food; from a young age, you know what’s good and what’s not. It’s a good thing, you should know your food.”Doing business in dollars presents problems at the moment, of course, as does the current poor weather in southern Europe (“carnage”), but when it comes to Brexit, Yip takes comfort from the fact that “we’re in the same boat as everyone else. We’re already dealing with the Far East without a trade agreement, so I assume that’s going to be unaffected. Yes, we do use a lot of European veg … but we’ll see.” The uncertainty, he says, is the hardest thing – but, going into the year of the rooster, he is trying to stay positive. “It’ll be interesting to see what’s going to happen. That much I do know.”