Rolling news and social media encourage us to live under a siege of immediate reaction. Amid the tumult, how many of us have time to look to literature for political insight? Fiction has a hard fight to show it is more useful in terms of dealing with what ails us than Twitter.Undoubtedly, what it means to be human is subject to change, but political novels of dystopia – from Huxley and Orwell to Riddley Walker and The Handmaid’s Tale – have always made brave wagers on where we might be headed. And to those who imagine that current affairs have become somehow “stranger than fiction” – there is nothing so very new under the sun.Robert Harris: why I write political fiction This is not to pretend that politics is rendered in fiction as widely or as well as it should be, given its centrality to how we live. Perhaps the problem begins with how novelists – like the rest of us – are both attracted and repulsed by the political world.The attractions are clear: the currents of popular feeling in a democracy, the fraught exercise of power by the few make for fathomless wells of dramatic conflict and thematic richness. Any contest to lead a national political party assumes dimensions we could call Shakespearean, whatever one’s view of the human calibre of a Theresa May or a Jeremy Corbyn.All fiction begins in empathy, and a politician is a complex human creature, just like you and me. As Senator Silas Radcliffe, anti-hero of Henry Adams’s 1880 novel Democracy, puts it: “No representative government can long be much better or much worse than the society it represents.” That congruence, too, ought to provide rich pickings for writers; and yet something routinely inhibits them from approaching politicians as subjects.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Shakespearean dimensions … Theresa May’s path to the top Photograph: Xinhua/Barcroft Images Quite a few writers – and also their readers – feel somehow duty-bound to be in opposition Some writers just resist the extension of too much empathy towards the powerful – for fear they will have to acknowledge more than the lowest possible motives. The literature of politics abounds with great novels of social protest on behalf of the oppressed and aggrieved, from Charles Dickens and Emile Zola to Upton Sinclair. It is no coincidence that Marx and Engels rated Balzac as a major materialist. Similarly, we know the dreadfulness of totalitarian regimes – the everyday depravity of the torturer, the snitch and the censor – so much the better for the artistry of Mikhail Bulgakov and Victor Serge, Danilo Kiš and Milan Kundera. But it may be that such exemplars overly condition our idea of where the artist ought to stand in relation to state power.My sense is that quite a few writers – and also their readers – feel somehow duty-bound to be in opposition; and what results is a certain lacuna in our collective imagination. Hanif Kureishi has lamented that, unlike in Dickens’s time, there is not one contemporary writer with “a sense of the whole society, from prisoner to home secretary”.But there is often a difficulty for writers who adopt an overtly political stance. A novelist may set out purposefully to make a book that furthers a cause, but it is not likely to be any good, since good books don’t carry messages like sacks carry coal. As Anthony Trollope’s great fictional prime minister Plantagenet Palliser put it: “The idea that political virtue is all on one side is both mischievous and absurd.” Even writers who see this clearly may feel overburdened by the binary narrowness of tribal political feeling, how it can thwart the regard for human ambiguities that a novel ought to possess.There are, of course, two main and vying definitions of “politics” alive in our popular speech. Many people refer readily to “my politics”, meaning a set of values they claim to live by. (Saul Bellow once proposed a dyspeptic paraphrase of this mindset: “We’re for all the good things, and against all the bad.”) But there is also politics as the Bismarckian “art of the possible” that we must call on since we don’t agree but are required to compromise. Such artistry, though, appears not to inspire a great many artists.Interestingly, some of the major literary exceptions to this rule – Trollope, Norman Mailer, Gore Vidal – have put themselves to the test of standing for elected office, albeit unsuccessfully. Political journalism, in its proximity to high office, has also bred insightful fiction. After the journalist Billy Lee Brammer did time on the staff of Texas senator Lyndon Johnson, he crafted a remarkable roman à clef from it, The Gay Place (1961). Robert Harris’s trilogy about the statesman-orator Cicero – showing how a shrewd man armed with a lawyer’s gift for a stirring speech might attain power in ancient Rome – testifies to the acumen Harris acquired at the BBC and the Observer.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Norman Mailer during his campaign for New York City mayor, June 1969. Photograph: Neal Boenzi/Getty ImagesBut to my mind the greatest of all political novels is Robert Penn Warren’s All The King’s Men (1946), patterned after the real-life rise and fall of demagogic Louisiana governor Huey “Kingfish” Long. Its protagonist Willie Stark, like all thoughtful conservatives, knows himself to be a fallen creature (“Man is conceived in sin and born in corruption,” he drawls). Yet in power, Stark consecrates himself to a populist improvement of the lives of the poor, albeit by routinely disreputable means – he gives away only a shade more than he steals. When Stark’s hypocrisies are called out by an honest adversary, he doesn’t miss a beat in his defence: “You got to make good out of bad. That’s all there is to make it with.” Yet Stark has no answer as to how he arrives at his philosophy. He is hazarding shots in the dark – as, more often than not, we all must.Penn Warren’s magisterial work gives us a lesson in facing up to the tragic element inevitably bound up in so much political decision-making. Friedrich Dürrenmatt, Swiss author of brooding philosophical crime stories, articulates this adroitly in The Quarry (1951) when a villain declares that our human fate is not to know “what actions will result from our obedience or our revolt, what crime adheres to the fruit we eat”.The moral-political drama of consequences unforeseen – perhaps what Donald Rumsfeld meant by “unknown unknowns” – is nowhere better framed in fiction than in Tolstoy’s late novella The Forged Coupon, published posthumously in 1911. A feckless youth amends by hand a voucher on a government bond and fobs it off for change in a shop; that false note is passed on to a peasant firewood seller, who soon finds himself in an awful predicament. The ripples of the original sin widen, and evil begets evil; but Tolstoy, in his eminence, also shows us people in the teeth of adversity realising what their souls are for. At the end of the chain, a woman writes to the tsar of Russia begging clemency for her husband’s murderers. But the executions have happened already. Although the tsar’s conscience is troubled, he will not change, for his office doesn’t permit him to. “… he could not give himself up to the demands of the human being,” writes Tolstoy, “because of all the demands that are made on a tsar from every side; as for admitting that the demands of the human being might be more binding than the demands made on him as a tsar – he did not have the strength to do that.”The obligations on Tolstoy’s tsar bind our elected politicians no less. Whenever I reread The Forged Coupon, I am reminded of Tony Blair’s comment that the dilemma of Pontius Pilate constitutes “a timeless parable of political life”, in its contest over whether to “do what appears principled or what is politically expedient”. Tolstoy understood that dilemma just as he understood a million other things. He saw it as deeply human, and not wholly resolvable – not in this life. Tolstoy speaks to our time as he spoke to his. No part of our present crises would be strange to him.• Richard T Kelly’s novel The Knives is published by Faber on 4 August.