It’s all over the front pages and the television and all anyone can talk about. For Guardian readers, your children have doubtless observed you rocking in a foetal ball, clutching a fistful of continental cheese as you mutter about article 50, but do they understand what Brexit is? Probably not. It’s time to tackle your kids’ Brex education, the birds directive and the bee mortality and surveillance report. But how?Explain the basics. “When 28 countries love each other very much …” No. In the past, European countries settled their differences by having wars. After the last war, some of them decided that a better way to handle their disagreements was through selling each other coal and steel, and later, through the medium of exchanging enormous boring documents. They did this by forming the European Union. The EU is basically a way for the countries of Europe to channel their bad feelings about each other into arguing about stuff like what you can put in a sausage. Arguing (even about sausages) is bad, but war is much worse.Women will get equal pay … in 118 years Explain what happened in June. The Hellmouth opened, and … sorry, try again. Former prime minister David Cameron decided to ask the British people whether they still wanted to be in the EU and 52% of those who voted said they didn’t, so we’re leaving. Somehow. Eventually.Use analogies. You know when you have a group of friends? Some of you want to do everything together: pool your pocket money, swap clothes and go round to each other’s houses. Others aren’t so keen. Britain has decided it doesn’t want to see so much of its EU friends and it especially doesn’t want to invite them round for sleepovers. It wants to hang out with the cool kids, such as America and China. The danger of this is that Britain may end up with no friends, eating lunch by itself and pretending it’s fine with that.Give both sides. The EU has made Europe safer (no wars, but also sofas that don’t catch fire), and fairer (action on equal pay for women and rights for disabled people). EU membership allows us to travel, study and work all over Europe, so if you want to be a firefighter in Slovenia or a vet in Portugal, you can. But the EU is expensive, slow, complicated and terrible at explaining why it is a good thing. You would think, because there isn’t a single shared language, that the EU would be careful to be very clear, but it uses a strange language no one except people who work for the EU understand, full of words and phrases such as “comitology”, “aquaculture” and “macroeconomic imbalance procedure”. Some people also dislike the idea of workers from other European countries coming to Britain, putting out our fires and worming our cats, when we could be doing those things ourselves.But don’t pretend you don’t have an opinion. You don’t have a responsibility to be impartial and your children probably already know how you feel. Explain your feelings: “I think it’s important for us to be open and welcoming to our neighbours,” perhaps. Or simply, “I dislike war.” No, it does not mean you will not have to study French any more Allay any possible fears. “When people say, ‘Britain is leaving Europe,’ do not worry, this does not mean Britain will actually be physically moving. Britain will stay to the left of France and the right of Ireland, where it has been for millions of years.”Quash any unrealistic hopes. “No, it does not mean you will not have to study French any more.”Define your terms. “Article 50” = A TNT block in Minecraft, but for European stability.“Taking back control” = not letting people from other European countries come and look after our sick people or fix our roofs.“Soft Brexit” = when you’re not officially friends with someone, but you still sit together at lunch.“Hard Brexit” = hard and fiery like a strong mint, painful like a dead leg, sad and final like when the hamster died.Make it fun, by playing a game. Brexit tag: One person is “article 50”. Everyone else holds hands and tries to run away from them. If article 50 touches you, you have to leave the game. The person left has to administer the common agricultural policy.EU budgetary procedure challenge: Gather some children (28 is probably overkill). Give them a large cake. Tell them they must decide how the cake is divided: it must be fair, but not equal. When it all goes horribly wrong, shout, “Watch out! Brexit.” Then run away with the cake. Return to your foetal ball. Eat the cake.