As a mozzarella-shaped adolescent, I was sent off to university with a bag of muesli so enormous that, for at least the first term and a half, my flatmates used it as a chair. There was also a 10kg bag of rice, so many tinned tomatoes that I had to start stacking them under my bed (where, incidentally, I found the previous tenant’s Ann Summers receipt) and enough flapjacks to build a fairly sturdy masonry wall.The food was all organic, low packaging and bought in bulk – my father is a member of one of those neighbourhood food co-operatives where 15 parents in bicycle clips and corduroy slacks get together in someone’s front room every couple of months to draw up a shopping list of things like wholewheat pasta, bouillon powder and kidney beans. This, I suppose, was his goodbye offering, as I sought my academic future Up North. I won’t pretend that arriving at university laden down like a medieval quartermaster didn’t turn a few heads, but it’s nice to look back and realise how it was possible, even back then, to fight against the tide of packaging, intensive farming, supermarket apathy and soil disassociation.Britons are possibly, hopefully, finally starting to wake up to the gut-wrenching scandal that is food waste. In a time of government-designed austerity, where thousands rely on food banks – according to the latest statistics from the Trussell Trust, more than 500,000 three-day emergency food parcels were distributed to people in crisis in the first half of 2016 – the sheer amount of food thrown into landfill isn’t just offensive, it’s dangerous. From restaurant profit margins to sell-by-date squeamishness, 2-4-1 supermarket offers loaded into the back of family cars, overpackaged sweaty lettuces, too-cheap bottles of milk and unrecognisable slabs of meat, we have become divorced from the true value of food and, therefore, careless about chucking it into the bin, while those around us go hungry.There are, of course, small, local, well-intentioned and creative food schemes out there that aim to shorten the gap between cultivation and consumption; to introduce us to the very people who grow our vegetables, help us meet the person that cut the throat of the chicken you’ll be roasting for lunch, to put locally produced ingredients on our doorstep and to stop shrink-wrapping anything vaguely resembling a carbon-based organism in plastic.The Food Assembly, for instance, circumvents the damaging, price-lowering, farm-destroying role of supermarkets, and orders fruit, veg, cheese, meat and other bits and bobs from local producers (the average distance food has travelled is about 26 miles, compared to the hundreds or thousands of miles a pepper, say, has flown to the UK), which are then delivered by a host to a central venue, to be picked up by you, the customer.Food waste is a scandal, but to blame it on millennials is nonsense | Nell Frizzell The Food Assembly claims farmers and foodmakers “get over 80% for every product sold, compared to the 15%-25% that most supermarkets offer them”. And, as the deliveries are only as big as the orders, far less is wasted than the huge amounts thrown on to and then off of supermarket shelves every week. There are also farmer’s markets, community growing associations such as Shared Assets, local allotments, community-owned farms and, of course, more veg box schemes than you can shake a rhubarb at. Look up the words “community supported agriculture” online and the photos of dirty carrots and cheering neighbourhoods will roll in like rain.But, I know it’s not that simple. I’m not so idealistic as to imagine everyone can plan their week’s food in advance, order it online, bother with the administration of a central pick up and then cook within the limits of those ingredients. Like many of you, I decide what I want to eat, standing in front of an open fridge, staring at the contents like a teenager gazing at an x-rated television channel in an empty hotel room. I do a daily shop with my local greengrocer, where the woman slaps on her eyebrows with a painting knife and whose nails clatter across the till like minimalist techno. Much as I would like to cut the carbon emissions involved in my digestions even further (as someone who rarely eats meat, doesn’t drive and tries to eat seasonally I like to tell myself I’m doing okay) I’m not yet at a stage where I can organise a weekly shop in advance; I don’t have an allotment; I haven’t even signed up to an organic veg box scheme. Possibly because my early experiences of veg boxes seemed to be a heavy year-round supply of beetroot and rock-hard squashes that even my genius of a mother started to tire of after a year or two.Community supported agriculture schemes may be the solution. I’d love it if they were. But until they can provide the cheap, easy staples that I donate to my local foodbank every few weeks, it’s hard to see how they will ever completely replace supermarkets. Meanwhile, perhaps we need to educate ourselves about simple things: food seasons; how much water, time and energy goes into growing a potato; if a carrot is ever really “too old” to eat; how to use up ripe pears. We need to break out of the city and supermarket bubble that insulates us from how, where and with what labour our food is farmed. If nothing else, it will stop us throwing perfectly good food away out of fear and unfamiliarity.Now, if you’ll excuse me, I’m off to stare into the fridge for a little while. ideas about how to combat food waste in Cook on Saturday.