Theatre of Eternal Music – The Fire Is a Mirror (1963) It’s hard to find many recordings of the Theatre of Eternal Music, sometimes known as the Dream Syndicate – a 1960s supergroup that featured Conrad, John Cale, La Monte Young, Marian Zazeela, Angus MacLise, and sometimes Terry Jennings and others – for a complicated snarl of reasons, not least because it was so revolutionary at the time. “We made the first drone music,” Conrad told the Guardian earlier this year. “No! I would say the first non-bagpipe, western drone music. But because people hadn’t heard this sort of thing, it was regarded with scepticism. Some people thought we were crazy, some people thought we were high on drugs.”    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Four Violins (1964) In late 1964, Conrad recorded Four Violins at 56 Ludlow Street in Manhattan’s Lower East Side. At the time, Cale was Conrad’s roommate in Ludlow Street, splitting the $25 a month rent. Conrad overdubbed four violin parts on top of each other, giving way to a dense cloud of alien, buzzing, droning sound. In the 1990s, Conrad’s music was rediscovered by a new generation of fans. Four Violins was reissued by the Table of the Elements label in 1996, and featured in Conrad’s Early Minimalism Volume 1 box set issued by the label the following year.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Flicker (1966)The Flicker was Conrad’s first film, and his most famous work. The 1966 experimental masterpiece is considered to be one of the pinnacles of structural film. A warning at the beginning of the film read: “Since this film may induce epileptic seizures or produce mild symptoms of shock treatment in certain persons, you are cautioned to remain in the theatre only at your own risk.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Tony Conrad with Faust – Outside the Dream Syndicate (1973)Conrad’s stunning 1973 collaboration with the German krautrock band Faust merged searing minimalism and drones with a steady rhythmic pulse and dreamy, almost psychedelic grooves. The album was recently reissued by the San Francisco-based label Superior Viaduct.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Yellow Movies (1973) Yellow Movies was Conrad at his most radical and conceptual. The movies weren’t conventional at all, but rectangles of paint on paper, bordered in black. Conrad used cheap, white latex house paint, reasoning that the “films” would eventually yellow with time. In this clip, Conrad explains the thinking behind Yellow Movies at an exhibition in Chicago.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 