 Two more Britons were hoping to be reunited with their families after a court in Saint Petersburg granted them bail on charges of hooliganism over a Greenpeace protest in the Arctic.Frank Hewetson, a 45-year-old logistics co-ordinator from north London, and Iain Rogers, a crew member on the Arctic Sunrise icebreaker, joined communications officer Alexandra Harris, activist Anthony Perrett and journalist Keiron Bryan in having their requests for bail granted.Eleven of the 28 protesters and two journalists have so far left jail, with the six Britons hoping they will soon follow suit. Twenty-six of the Arctic 30 have now been granted bail at £38,000 each. Philip Ball, from Oxfordshire, and two others face bail hearings on Friday. Only 59-year-old Australian citizen Colin Russell has had his detention extended.The Australian ambassador to Russia, Paul Myler, tweeted after visiting Russell: "Not the most inviting-looking accommodation but Colin in good spirits and confident his appeal will be successful."He added: "As am I following discussions with investigative committee, lawyers and prison head. General consensus - the first pancake never works out."Sue Turner, Rogers' mother, said: "I am still taking it in. I am really pleased [at news of his pending release] but I am not very pleased that the charges haven't been withdrawn."I don't know what that means yet. He might not be able to leave Russia or Saint Petersburg but it will give him a little more freedom."Hewetson, who lives with his partner, Nina Gold, and teenage children Nell and Joe, has been arrested on several other protests before but this detention, which has so far lasted more than two months, is his longest period of imprisonment.Gold, welcoming the "fantastic news" and echoing other families' concerns about the continuing charges and uncertain bail conditions, said: "It is not all over yet. I am in the process of applying for a visa to go and see him." Their son and daughter were thrilled too, she said. "They want to go and see their dad as soon as possible as well."The latest developments suggest that Russia may be relaxing the ultra-tough stance it has taken against the Arctic 30 since they were arrested two months ago.The activists still face hooliganism charges that could result in seven-year sentences, but they will be able to leave prison while the investigation continues, as soon as their bail payments are made.Greenpeace International said bail payments were being made as quickly as possible and it had booked hotel rooms for the activists. But none of the activists have valid Russian visas, so it is unclear how they can stay in Russia. Brazil has a visa-free arrangement with Russia, meaning the issue is not pressing for Ana Paula, but it is unclear how Russian authorities will handle the Europeans among the 30. Lawyers said it was unfamiliar legal territory. On Wednesday evening, Greenpeace representatives would not say where Ana Paula was or what her plans for the coming days and weeks are.The activists were apprehended in September, when armed coastguard officers descended from helicopters on to the Arctic Sunrise, Greenpeace's icebreaker. They were originally charged with piracy but now face charges of hooliganism as part of an organised group, which carries a maximum jail sentence of seven years. They were initially held in detention in the Arctic port of Murmansk but were moved to Saint Petersburg by prison train earlier in November. The 30 are being held at three different pre-trial detention centres across the city, with 14 men inside Kresty, the notorious jail that dates back to Tsarist times and once held Leon Trotsky.British consular officials were present at the hearings, and have met with all six British activists since their arrival in Saint Petersburg from Murmansk, however they were also unaware of exactly how bail might look for the foreign Greenpeace activists.