I have a good friend named Tomos Parry who is also a chef. Having done stints at institutions including the River Cafe, which by popular definition makes you a “proper chef”, Tom’s cooking is grounded in an understanding of good technique and familiar ingredients. Yet his food is unmistakably his own: incredibly simple, movingly delicious.We were on holiday together in Mallorca last year and spent a lot of time preparing extended lunches: roasting legs of lamb over vine wood and dry fennel bush we found in the grounds of the house where we were staying, grilling langoustine with the fat from cured pig’s cheeks, picking sea urchins off the rocks in our flip-flops and storing them in our straw hats. We’d go back to the house and crack open their spiny shells, scoop out the delicate orange flesh and wash it down with a beer. How you add seasoning is as important as knowing what to add None of those things, though, was the highlight of my week. My favourite was the simplest. Tom rummaged in the fridge one lunchtime and came up with something based on petit pois à la française. Frozen peas, some salad, a splash of white wine, a dash of milk. It took him all of five minutes to make and it was the best thing I’d eaten in ages.Why was that? Tom had done no planning. He’d used underwhelming ingredients. But he was able to improvise because he knew what he was doing with heat and, most importantly, with seasoning. He knew how the latter would lift those humble components into something greater than the sum of their parts. The meal was a good example of how crucial seasoning is – perhaps the common denominator in all good cooking.The two Thai recipes here live or die by good seasoning. The Thais have vastly more complex and engaging options when it comes to seasoning than we do in the west. We might typically have salts, sugars and vinegars to play with (to my mind, pepper is less a seasoning than a spice). But in Thai cuisine, and in my kitchen, you see palm sugar (warming sweetness) and caster sugar (more urgent, impactive sweetness), fish sauce (clean, salty, umami), fermented shrimp paste (heavy, earthy salt and deeper umami), fermented freshwater fish (more about this later), a couple of types of citrus and sea salt.Rural Thai recipes for crab noodles and duck soup | Cook residency While that may sound excessive, cooking Thai food has taught me that sometimes how you add seasoning is as important as knowing what to add. All those salty, pungent fishy things give you so many options.Let’s say you are seasoning a curry that will stay hot for a while: then gapi (fermented shrimp paste) may be the best option, as it doesn’t intensify in hot liquid in quite the same way as fish sauce. However, if a freshly made, tart dipping sauce needs zip, then the clean immediacy of fish sauce might be perfect. Both add saltiness, but in very different ways.Gaeng omm is a simple curry soup. It’s principally herbal and pungent, the kind of reassuring farmer’s food you are likely to find in more rural areas of Isaan, the mountainous north-eastern region of Thailand that borders Laos and Cambodia. I have found that it benefits from being seasoned at the last moment, so that the curry doesn’t absorb all the liveliness of the citrus flavours and the fish sauce. Season it too early and you have a salty bowl of deadened pork and lemongrass. But take it off the heat and add a light dash of fish sauce and a spritz of fresh lemon or lime and you’ll find these seasonings lift the herbal notes beyond what you expected. Gaeng omm is served with jasmine rice, the neutral nuttiness of which counterbalances the curry’s seasoning.On occasion, a specific type of seasoning works perfectly with the ingredients in the dish. Just as braised lettuce and peas work best simmered with a little sea salt (table or rock salt wouldn’t do), my example would be mushroom salad with pla raa, fermented freshwater fish made with roasted rice, which helps to define the pungent, spicy, citric food of Isaan. I miss the extra information we sacrifice with refining, and I am prepared to ingest a little stink and rot to get it Charred, umami-rich mushrooms combined with pla raa and fish sauce, then balanced with roasted chilli and citrus, is quite a devious combination. You can get pla raa from specialist Asian retailers such as importfood.com, although we source a milder version for use in this salad. When travelling, I have eaten versions made with crushed mud snails and found the unrefined gutsiness to be addictive. Refined foods are delicious in their ability to lift, balance and give poise to a dish, but I always miss the extra information we sacrifice with refining, and I am prepared to ingest a little stink and rot to get it.Isaan mushroom saladServes 44 large handfuls meaty mixed mushrooms (such as oyster or wild mushrooms), tough stems trimmed and reserved to make mushroom stockVegetable oil, for fryingA pinch of salt4-5 shallots/1 red onion, finely choppedHalf a handful of mint leaves, roughly chopped1 tbsp roasted sticky rice powder (optional)For the dressing1 tbsp lime juice1 tbsp lemon juice1 tbsp light soy sauce1 tbsp mushroom stock (see below)1 tbsp palm sugar (or caster sugar)1 tsp dried red chilli powder2 lemongrass sticks, outer stalks removed, finely chopped1 In a heavy-based pan (or even better, on a barbecue), cook the mushrooms in a little oil with a pinch of salt.2 To make the mushroom stock, grill or fry the mushroom trimmings, then boil with a cup of water, and reduce by half.3 Combine the dressing ingredients in a bowl and mix well.4 Add the remaining ingredients to the mushrooms, cover with the dressing and mix well. Taste the liquor for seasoning: it should be umami-rich and a little sour: adjust if need be. Heap on to a plate and serve.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ben Chapman: ‘Thai dishes live or die by good seasoning.’ Photograph: Elena Heatherwick for the GuardianHerbal pork curry soup from Isaan (gaeng om)Often eaten with laap – a meat-based salad usually made with chicken, duck, pork or beef – or grilled meats, this is a herbal, cleansing soup, seasoned with pla raa or fish sauce.Serves 3-4, as part of a mealFor the paste (produces 10 portions)10g long red chillies, soaked then roasted over a flame to bring them to life, then sliced15g lemongrass stalks, tough outer leaves peeled, using the fragrant inner leaves, finely sliced2-3 garlic cloves, peeled and chopped1 makrut lime leaf, smashed into a pasteFor the soup300g pork shoulder or belly meat, cut into 1cm thick, bite-size pieces2 tbsp vegetable oil750ml chicken or pork stock1 large handful of lemon basil or Thai basil leaves1 large bunch dill, cut into 3cm strips, stems included30ml fish sauce/pla raa if you can find itA squeeze of lemon or lime1 Grind the paste ingredients finely in a pestle and mortar in the order listed.2 Rub the paste into the meat and, in a large wok or saucepan, fry on a low heat in the oil until fragrant, about 10-15 minutes. Be careful not to let it burn.3 Add the stock and simmer until it has thickened to the consistency of minestrone. It should have reddish oily slick on the surface.4 Remove from the heat, add the basil and dill, stir in the fish sauce or pla raa in small quantities and taste as you go.5 Squeeze in the lemon or lime, stir and taste. It should be fragrant, and have a balance of spicy and sour and slightly salty.6 Pour the curry into a large bowl and serve with unseasoned steamed Thai jasmine rice.Ben Chapman is a chef and founder of Kiln and Smoking Goat Thai restaurants in London; @Kilnsoho and @SmokingGoatSoho