Ukraine is marking the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster, which permanently poisoned swathes of eastern Europe and highlighted the shortcomings of the secretive Soviet system.In the early hours of April 26, 1986, a botched test at the nuclear plant in then-Soviet Ukraine triggered a meltdown that spewed deadly clouds of atomic material into the atmosphere, forcing tens of thousands of people from their homes.The political fallout of Chernobyl is still toxic | Natalie Nougayrède A series of events is being held to commemorate the tragedy, which remains the worst nuclear accident in history. A memorial service is being held at the town of Slavutych, which was built to re-house workers who lived near the nuclear plant, and a church service will be held in Kiev for the families of victims. Later, president Petro Poroshenko will attend a ceremony near the site.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Staff of the Chernobyl nuclear plant hold candles as they visit a memorial, dedicated to firefighters and workers who died after the Chernobyl nuclear disaster. Photograph: Gleb Garanich/ReutersOn the eve of the anniversary, some survivors returned to their hometown of Pripyat. “I barely found my apartment, I mean it’s a forest now - trees growing through the pavement, on the roofs. All the rooms are empty, the glass is gone from the windows and everything’s destroyed,” said Zoya Perevozchenko, 66.  The anniversary comes during the final stages of the completion of a giant €1.5bn (£1.2bn) steel-clad arch that will enclose the stricken reactor site and prevent further leaks for the next 100 years. The project was funded with donations from more than 40 governments. Ukrainian prime minister Volodymyr Groysman said lessons learned from Chernobyl should be heeded all over the world.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A woman cries during a memorial service for victims of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster in a church in Kiev. Photograph: Valentyn Ogirenko/Reuters Over a half a million civilian and military personnel were drafted from across the former Soviet Union as so-called “liquidators” to clean-up and contain the nuclear fallout, according to the World Health Organisation. Thirty-one plant workers and firemen died in the immediate aftermath of the accident, mostly from acute radiation sickness. Over the past three decades, thousands more have succumbed to radiation-related illnesses such as cancer, although the total death toll and long-term health effects remain a subject of intense debate. Nikolay Chernyavskiy, 65, who worked at Chernobyl and later volunteered as a liquidator, recalls climbing to the roof of his apartment block in the nearby town of Prypyat to get a look at the plant after the accident. “My son said ‘Papa, Papa, I want to look too.’ He’s got to wear glasses now and I feel like it’s my fault for letting him look,” Chernyavskiy said.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Flowers and candles are seen on the memorial of ‘Сhernobyl heroes’ during a ceremony in Kiev. Photograph: Roman Pilipey/EPA Even with the new structure, the surrounding exclusion zone- 2,600 sq km (1,000 sq miles) of forest and marshland on the border of Ukraine and Belarus - will remain uninhabitable and closed to unsanctioned visitors. The disaster and the government’s reaction highlighted the flaws of the Soviet system with its unaccountable bureaucrats and entrenched culture of secrecy. For example, the evacuation order only came 36 hours after the accident. Former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev has said he considers Chernobyl one of the main nails in the coffin of the Soviet Union, which eventually collapsed in 1991.  