      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fanmail SS17Fanmail  Once a sustainable T-shirt label, New York’s Fanmail has expanded into wardrobe essentials. Fabrics are ethically sourced, cotton is organic, and all garments are made in NYC, with details of sources and suppliers printed on tags. For SS17 they’ve produced a velour collection for Mr Porter, the zip-up track tops from which we love. From £115, fanmail-us.com      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Edward Crutchley exclusively at brownsfashion.comEdward Crutchley Edward Crutchley is one of British fashion’s rising stars, slowly building a reputation for creativity with an emphasis on luxury fabrics. He also collaborates with Louis Vuitton on textile designs. They’re not cheap, but when you learn that the woven silk satin is British made and that the hand-dyed laser cut latex is the most complicated design the suppliers have made in 25 years, it makes sense. From £700, brownsfashion.com      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   De Bonne Fracture SS17De Bonne Facture De Bonne Facture quite literally means something that is well made. This is a collection for men who like style that doesn’t shout. Expect premium essentials like grandad shirts, relaxed chinos and seersucker jackets. Each piece comes with a hang tag with the name, location and history of the atelier that made it. From £110, debonnefacture.fr      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Castore SS17. Photograph: Ross WoodhallCastore Former athletes, brothers Tom and Phil Beahon started Castore to bring a new level of performance to men’s sportswear. Targeting a more discerning gym-goer, the label’s attention to detail is key, with each product going through six testing samples – twice the industry standard. And what’s more, all garments come with a two-year guarantee. From £85, castore.co.uk      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bruta SS17. Photograph: Rory DCSBrutaArtist Arthur Yates started his unisex shirt label, Bruta, three seasons ago – a riot of embroidered designs that are whimsical and fun. We love the goal-scoring football players and the vintage-look western style, perfect for making even grey days feel ice-cream worthy. From £120, harveynichols.com      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sorensen SS17SorensenAn updated approach to style based around six core archetypes: the driver, engineer, dancer, butcher, officer and painter (joined for SS17 by the seafarer). Styles riff on historical workwear associated with each character type. Think variations like a fluid tunic shirt for the painter and a stricter, neater look for the officer. Each season these pieces are added to, building a wardrobe for each one. The standout piece for SS17 is the dancer’s on-trend pink sweatshirt. From £80 matchesfashion.com