Which painter lived at 87 Hackford Road, South Lambeth?   William Morris    Vincent Van Gogh Van Gogh was a lodger at number 87 while working at the London branch of his employers, the Dutch art dealer Groupil & Co in 1873. He fell in love with his landlady's daughter, Eugenie, and after declaring his love for her and finding out she was already engaged, he left Hackford Road and moved to Kensington for a short time. Van Gogh was only 20 when he first arrived in London, and had not yet found his vocation as a painter.     John William Waterhouse    John Singer Sargent Which musician lived at 34 Montagu Square, Marylebone?   Keith Moon    Sid Vicious    Sandy Denny    John Lennon In July 1968 Lennon moved into the basement maisonette in Montagu square and stayed for around five months, while he was working on the Beatles' self-titled album (known as the White Album). The flat had been bought by Ringo Starr in 1965, and was briefly rented by Paul McCartney and Jimi Hendrix before it became the first home Lennon shared with Yoko Ono. It was here that they took the controversial naked photograph for the cover of Two Virgins. During their time at number 34 the flat was raided by police who found traces of cannabis, which led to Lennon’s conviction for possession.  Which American poet lived for a short time at 3 Chalcot Square, Primrose Hill?    Sylvia Plath Born in Boston, Massachusetts, Plath moved to England with her husband, the British poet Ted Hughes, in 1959. She wrote her first novel, The Bell Jar, while living in Chalcot Square, and published first volume of poetry, The Colossus. Hughes and Plath lived in Primrose Hill until they moved to Devon for about a year in 1961.     Jack Kerouac    Ezra Pound    Walt Whitman Which director lived at 153 Cromwell Road, South Kensington?   Stanley Kubrick    Alfred Hitchcock Born in Leytonstone, east London, Hitchcock moved to Cromwell Road a year after the release of his first feature film The Pleasure Garden (1925). He designed the furniture and fittings for the flat which he kept in London, and once remarked: “I never felt any desire to move out of my own class.” In 1955 he took American citizenship and moved to Los Angeles with his wife.     Clint Eastwood    Charlie Chaplin Which musician lived at 23 Brook Street, Mayfair?   Jim Morrison    Janis Joplin    Brian Jones    Jimi Hendrix Born in Seattle, Washington, Hendrix first arrived in London in 1966. After the release of his album Are You Experienced, Hendrix joined his girlfriend Kathy Etchingham at her flat in number 23. He lived here for months before leaving to tour the US in March 1969.  Which author lived at 58 Sheffield Terrace, Holland Park?   Arthur Conan Doyle    Dorothy Leigh Sayers    PD James    Agatha Christie Originally from Devon, the detective author famous for her characters Hercule Poirot and Miss Marple, lived in Sheffield Terrace from 1934-1941 with her second husband until they were driven out by bombing in the second world war. In this house she completed her books Murder on the Orient Express and Death on the Nile. Who lived at 28 Dean Street, Soho? He wrote the first draft of his groundbreaking book here.    Charles Dickens    Karl Marx The German revolutionary and author settled permanently in London in 1849 with his family. He moved to Dean Street in the winter of 1850-51, living in relative poverty. He wrote the first volume of Das Kapital here, carrying out research at the British Museum reading room. In 1856 he moved to Kentish Town.     Samuel Taylor Coleridge    Mark Twain Which composer stayed for a brief period at 180 Ebury Street, Belgravia? (Blue became the standard colour for official London plaques after the second world war.)   Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart The young prodigy was in London on a grand tour of Europe with his family when his father Leopold was taken ill. The family stayed in Ebury Street for a few weeks, and it is here where eight-year-old Mozart composed his first symphony, so as not to disturb his father while he recovered.     George Frideric Handel    Benjamin Britten    Frederic Chopin Which writer lived at 29 Fitzroy Square, Fitzrovia?   George Orwell    TS Eliot    Virginia Woolf The English writer moved to Fitzroy Square with her younger brother in 1907, taking the place of former resident George Bernard Shaw on a five-year lease. Finding the neighbourhood to be too noisy, she moved to the quieter Brunswick Square in November 1911.     TE Lawrence ("Lawrence of Arabia") Which person, who was new to London, spent time living at 20 Baron's Court Road, Barons Court, while studying law in the late 1880s?    Enid Blyton    Mahatma Gandhi Gandhi arrived in London aged 19 and lived at number 20 as a law student in the late 1880s. Board and lodging cost him 30 shillings a week, and as his landlady struggled to cater for his vegetarianism, he moved after about eight months.    Florence Nightingale    William Butler Yeats You got…Challenge your friendsSubmit answers