Some cities are soaked in literature, evoked and celebrated in fiction through the ages. You have Dickens’s London, Hemingway’s Paris, Len Deighton’s Berlin. And then there is Milton Keynes. To be fair, Milton Keynes hasn’t had much time to be hymned by bards, since it will only turn 50 years old next year. In time for that, the council is appointing a writer in residence for the town. Can some enterprising scribbler convert Milton Keynes into a hub of cosmopolitan glamour? If nothing else, it is a mark of faith in the transformative power of literature. Today, Milton Keynes is still the non-place it was planned to beOwen Hatherley Milton Keynes does have a bit of a reputation problem. Disappointingly, it is not officially named, as I once supposed, after the great poet John Milton and the economist John Maynard Keynes. (The village of Milton Keynes from which the town gets its name was once Middletone, and owned by a Norman family named de Cahaines, from whom JM Keynes may in fact have descended.)The architecture critic Owen Hatherley notes a combination of utopian vision and “bland, kitsch, Thatcherite reality”, and concludes: “Today, Milton Keynes is still the non-place it was planned to be.” In Arnold Wesker’s play Groupie, a woman protests too much: “But after all Milton Keynes is the home of the Open University and it’s not all that dead here and there’s this gallery … ”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Artist Gijs Van Bon and his robot SKRYF, which inscribed Jackie Kay poetry at the Centre:MK shopping mall in Milton Keynes in 2014. Photograph: Frantzesco Kangaris for the GuardianThe writer in residence’s function is to help cure that cultural cringe. The job description, which evidently had to be written by a non-writer in residence, says that the successful candidate “will support us creating the stories either fiction or non-fiction, for several pieces of public art in central Milton Keynes which would later form part of a digital storytelling project”. So they probably don’t want someone writing acidic dystopias. The point is to help sell the city’s message that Milton Keynes is “an amazing place to live, work and visit”. If you don’t live and work there, you probably don’t have to visit, but increasing tourism is evidently on the agenda as well. (The one time I went there was to see David Bowie at the Milton Keynes Bowl, which I found pleasingly concave.)As often as not in the modern age, the point of hiring a writer in residence is simply advertising. You get a namecheck for your product, as well as the cachet that accrues to fine writing having been perpetrated about it. Alain de Botton once wrote a legendary book while sitting in Heathrow Airport. And in 2014-15, Amtrak gave 24 writers unlimited travel in sleeper cars, plus meals. Of course, such stunts can benefit the wider public in consciousness-raising terms, like the artists’ and writers’ residencies in the Antarctic do. But it doesn’t hurt if they also sell more tickets. For urban conglomerations like Milton Keynes to appoint writers in residence, however, seems a relatively recent trend. Nowhere is it recorded that Fyodor Dostoyevsky was invited to spend a summer writing stories about tortured souls in Slough. And when TS Eliot wrote “On Margate Sands. / I can connect / Nothing with nothing”, he probably did not receive a grateful backhander from the seaside authorities. But it seems creative writers are now weaponised players in the global economy of cultural tourism. If your city does not already have a rich literary heritage to attract holidaymakers, maybe you can start getting it written now.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Bridge is one of the many noirish cultural products that have helped drive tourism to Scandinavia. Photograph: Carolina Romare/BBC/ZDFIceland does not lack for literary heritage, but its sagas are little read in the rest of the world. Hence, perhaps, the writer in residence programme established by Reykjavik when it was named a Unesco City of Literature in 2011, inviting holders to develop “a literary project based on the country of Iceland”. No one expects a single writer in residence programme to boost airline bookings to that destination immediately. But the thinking generally seems to be that where there is culture, the tourists and (desirable) immigrants will follow. Plymouth had a writer in residence in 2011, the poet Hannah Silva, whose remit was simply to raise the profile of literature among residents. But it was part of a plan, as a city councillor revealed: “Plymouth wants to be [a] vibrant waterfront city and without culture, this cannot happen.”  I always suspected that eternity would look like Milton KeynesJG Ballard Perhaps a desire for the right kind of incomer has inspired another residency set up for Prague’s induction as a City of Literature. (The British novelist Sarah Perry won.) You might think that Prague already has a pretty rich literary history compared to Milton Keynes – from Jan Neruda’s much loved 19th-century Prague Tales to Kundera’s philosophical yarns of seduction under the Communists. But it might be time to emphasise anew the city’s impressive tradition of high culture rather than its marauding British stag parties. Vienna’s programme for artists and writers, meanwhile, seeks “to expand the role of the MuseumsQuartier Wien as one of the world’s largest contemporary cultural complexes”. Other city writer in residence programmes seek more modestly to draw attention to a little-hymned part of the urban infrastructure: thus Seattle’s residency themed around the Fremont Bridge. The possibilities are endless. Let it be known that I am currently accepting invitations to become the writer in residence for St Tropez or Santa Monica, or pretty much any luxury hotel, or failing that a decent pub with a winged leather armchair. London 0, Hull plenty: how is life in England's only 'affordable city'? What will urban writers in residence actually end up writing? It may, paradoxically, be important for them not to compose anything too celebratory about their host city. After all, British tourism to Scandinavia has skyrocketed over the past decade, influenced by the bestselling books of Henning Mankell and Stieg Larsson, and TV dramas such as The Killing and The Bridge – even though all these cultural products imply that Denmark and Sweden are uniformly bleak and a freezing purgatory where everyone always ends up getting murdered. Gloomy and bloody prose might not impress the city authorities finding a writer in residence, but they’ll probably pay off in the long term. In which case the fortunate writer en route to Milton Keynes should probably compose something perfectly nightmarish. Not to whitewash but to one-up the sly vision of JG Ballard, who once said: “I always suspected that eternity would look like Milton Keynes.”Follow Guardian Cities on Twitter and Facebook and join the discussion