On Wednesday, in the Jewish Museum in north London, I overheard a guide telling an American couple: “Then there’s Peter Sellers, he was Jewish too, you know. His father wasn’t but his mother was, so he has the bloodline.” “The bloodline is what counts,” said the American woman.It had never occurred to me that Sellers was Jewish, or for that matter not Jewish. That kind of knowingness has come to me quite late in life. (“Yehudi Menuhin! No! Really?”) Half a century and more ago, when the time came for me to be measured for my first suit, my mother and I naturally found ourselves among the measuring tapes and courteous assistants of Montague Burton’s shop on the high street.I didn’t know that the surname on the shop front, the little “Montague” stuck into the curlicue “B” like a ticket in a hatband, had probably first been spotted by the suit-maker on a pub window, advertising pale ales and stout in embossed white letters. I had no idea that this remarkable man, the founder of the biggest bespoke tailoring business the world has ever seen, was born Meshe David Osinky in the pogrom-ravaged Russian province of Kovno (now part of Lithuania) in 1885, to turn up alone in Yorkshire with only a few words of English at the age of 15.The evolution of men’s suits It wasn’t that he kept his Jewishness secret. As the catalogue to the Jewish Museum’s new exhibition on the rag trade tells us, persons unknown scratched the word “Jew” on the windows of Burton branches in Manchester, Northampton and London soon after war broke out in 1939. In a note to the police, Montague Burton said he would have relished the chance to add the detail “… and proud of it” – as indeed he was, writing once that “the Jew has given the world the basic ethical and spiritual values, the cream of civilisation”.But other than the window-scratchers (thought by Burton’s general manager to be a “Nazi-fascist organisation … financed from Germany”), nobody who knew seems to have much minded, and many people, especially those who lived far from his factories in Yorkshire and Lancashire and his home in Harrogate, never knew in the first place.We missed an astonishing story. The dark suit that I tried on a few weeks after our measuring visit – I have a feeling it cost £12 – was made by an industrial organisation that in the same year, 1960, turned out 1,739,397 made-to-measure garments that, when jackets and trousers were put together, and omitting a few waistcoats from the picture, became roughly equivalent to 850,000 men’s suits. That was Burton’s peak postwar year, and perhaps one of those times (Burton’s biographer is fuzzy on the point) when Burton could claim to be clothing about a fifth of the British population. Suits last a long time – I waited four years for a second one – so the calculation is more complicated than it looks. More certainly, the firm provided a quarter of British military uniforms worn in the second world war.Everything about the firm shouted ambition. Its rubric “the tailor of taste” was almost a national catchphrase. In Leeds, it owned the largest clothing factory in Europe and the world’s largest canteen – at a single sitting, 8,000 workers could enjoy fish and chips, with fruit pie and custard to follow.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Trainee Burton tailors practise fitting a suit, Guisborough, 1960. Photograph: Walter Nurnberg/SSPL via Getty ImagesIn terms of employment, it was among Britain’s six biggest companies. No other business in the world had a bigger chain of textile shops – Burton’s had around 600 – and few shops of any kind were as distinct in their appearance. Ranked by facades that descended in importance from Portland stone through polished granite to white terracotta, they stood out among the jumbled Victorian architecture of industrial Britain like beacons of modernity. Many are now listed buildings. One or two still house the billiard halls that the teetotal Montague Burton liked to house above his shops, in the belief that they kept young men from drinking.The roots of this cultural as well as commercial phenomenon lay far away in Tsarist Russia, where Jews had been largely confined to the zone known as the Pale of Settlement and restricted there to making a hard living from trades such as tailoring, cobbling and cabinet making. Of the 150,000 to 200,000 Jews who fled to Britain between 1881 and 1914, many simply transferred their skills to the sweatshops of London; others, however, settled near the Yorkshire wool industry, where a Methodist tailor, Joseph Hepworth, had begun to sell his wares directly from his Leeds factory to the public through a chain of ready-made clothes shops.Osinky/Burton wasn’t the only trader to take the idea an important stage further by adding a bespoke alternative to the suit on the hanger. Nor was he the cheapest; by the 1920s plenty of tailors were offering suits priced in shillings – “the 30-bob suit” – and not guineas. But no rival had his dedication to organisation, salesmanship and publicity. He transformed the look of the nation.“We are justly proud in having made a considerable contribution towards making Britain the best dressed country in the world, so far as men are concerned,” he wrote in 1933, adding, perhaps just a little questionably, “The caste of dress which used to separate class from class, can be said to have disappeared in my lifetime.”He was knighted in 1933. He liked to read, preferring George Eliot to Dickens on account of “her studies of the little human weaknesses”, and mourning the fact that John Galsworthy had no successor to describe “the newer and more vigorous life” of the outer London suburbs such as Wembley. He thought of himself as “a modernist – almost a vandalist” for preferring the sight of a spotless food factory to “derelict abbeys” and “crumbling cathedrals”. He believed in the League of Nations, a happy workforce and endowing chairs at universities.His had been a very long journey from the oppression and poverty of Kovno. His empire survived for another two or three decades after his death in 1952 and then, after diversifications into women’s wear and the merciless assault of jeans, it began to crumble. Today, the Topman chain is the Burton family’s last significant legacy in retail. I am proud to have worn one of his suits.Moses, Mods and Mr Fish: the Menswear Revolution, is at the Jewish Museum, London NW1, until 19 June 