Dick Potts, who has died aged 77, did more to bridge the gap between conservationists, farmers and the game shooting fraternity than any other figure. He combined his training as a scientist, his background as a farmer’s son and his passion for birds to help save the threatened grey partridge.From small beginnings in a Portakabin on a farm in West Sussex in 1968, Dick developed a long-term study into the ecology of the partridge, one of Britain’s most distinctive farmland birds. Even then, numbers of this attractive gamebird were beginning to fall and Dick was charged with finding out why.Through intensive fieldwork, Dick and his colleagues identified three major reasons for the partridge’s decline. First, the growing use of pesticides was reducing the abundance of the insects on which their chicks feed, leading to lower survival rates. Second, more intensive farming and the consequent reduction in habitat meant there were fewer places to nest. Third, as partridge numbers fell, the relative effects of predation increased. Dick likened this combination of factors to a three-legged stool, noting that if a single leg failed the whole system would collapse.This was pioneering work, and developed into what became known as the Sussex Study – now the longest established survey of farmland ecosystems in Europe. It was the first time that ecologists had looked closely at the man-made habitat of farmland; until then they had focused mainly on natural and semi-natural ecosystems. The work inspired a generations of scientists and led to new methods of conserving farmland birds.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The grey partridge is one of Britain’s most distinctive farmland birds. Photograph: Game & Wildlife Conservation Trust/PABorn on the farm belonging to his parents, Eleanor (nee Knox) and Edward Potts, near Richmond, North Yorkshire, Dick took an active interest in local wildlife from early childhood. A key influence on his future career was the hard winter of 1946-47 – the second coldest of the 20th century – and its effect on local birds. On leaving Scorton grammar school, in 1958 he went to Durham University, to study zoology. He stayed at Durham for his PhD, completing his research into the breeding biology of the shag, based on the Farne Islands, in 1966.Having discovered that agricultural pesticides were even affecting the breeding success of seabirds, he determined to find out what harm they might be doing to farmland birds. So in 1968 he joined the Game Conservancy (now the Game and Wildlife Conservation Trust), where he remained for the rest of his formal career.In 1976 Dick was appointed director of research, and moved from Sussex to the trust’s headquarters at Fordingbridge, in Hampshire. In 1992 he rose to become director general, and spent a decade engaged in the controversies over driven grouse shooting, working closely with the RSPB to try to find a resolution to this perennial conflict, before his official retirement in 2002.But like so many passionate conservationists, Dick never really retired. He continued to put his theories into practice on the Duke of Norfolk’s estate near Arundel, West Sussex. As he had predicted, this led to a huge increase in partridge numbers, from just a handful to several hundred breeding pairs.He also devoted several years to writing a volume for the authoritative Collins New Naturalist series. Partridges: Countryside Barometer (2012) drew together a lifetime’s knowledge and experience and, as its title suggests, concluded that when the grey partridge is in trouble, so is all farmland wildlife. This built on his earlier 1986 work, The Partridge: Pesticides, Predation and Conservation, which had won the Wildlife Society’s book of the year award. During his long career he also published more than 100 scientific papers.Dick was a man ahead of his time. Despite the early warning about the harmful effects of agricultural chemicals, flagged up by the US campaigners in the 1960s, the realisation that Britain’s farmland birds were in trouble took decades to be accepted. The eventual realisation that intensive farming often leaves little or no room for wildlife was in no small part down to Dick’s thorough scientific investigation, along with his ability to persuade others of his case.Unlike many others in the game conservation world, he roundly condemned the illegal persecution of hen harriers on grouse moors, and dismissed the widely held but completely erroneous belief that birds of prey are somehow responsible for the reduction in songbird numbers. He always worked closely with farmers, seeing them as the key to reversing the declines in farmland wildlife, and improving the biodiversity of our countryside.His contribution to conservation was widely recognised and won him several major awards, including the Godman-Salvin medal from the British Ornithologists’ Union (BOU) in 1999, and the Country Landowners’ Association award for services to the countryside.During his career he was also chairman of the World Pheasant Association and vice-president of the BOU, and in 2003 was awarded a Leverhulme emeritus fellowship. This funded research on changes into cereal crop biodiversity. On the day of his death he was told that he had won the RSPB gold medal.He is survived by his second wife, Olga Patterson, whom he married in 1988, a son, Gareth, from his first marriage, to Elsie (nee Cooper), which ended in divorce, and a stepson, Martin.• George Richard Potts, ecologist and conservationist, born 6 December 1939; died 30 March 2017