When it comes to the stereotyping of British counties, Essex beats them all, from Towie to fake tans, bleached blondes and brassiness. But Essex doesn’t need a makeover, only a bit of historical balance.Last year, an initiative named Radical Essex sought to do just that, by retrieving the county’s progressive past. With its proximity to London and Europe, and relative lack of country estates, Essex in the early 20th century was fertile, affordable ground for grand plans, pioneering lifestyle experiments and, above all, modern architecture. Modernism had a difficult time crossing the Channel, but this is where it made the greatest inroads.Industrialists and entrepreneurs could think big in Essex. In 1910, the wealthy Raphael family transformed farming land around its Gidea Hall estate (it’s no longer in Essex, but was then). It was intended as an exhibition town, with 140 different model homes in the first phase and a further 60-odd in the 1930s. In the 1920s, Francis Crittall looked to expand his window-manufacturing empire with a model modernist workers’ town called Silver End. Czech shoe entrepreneur Tomas Bata did the same in East Tilbury, bringing a bit of Bauhaus to the Thames estuary. Meanwhile, in Frinton-on-Sea, plans were afoot for an upmarket residential estate entirely in the modernist style.Many of these grand schemes involved the pioneers of British modern architecture, both European émigrés and indigenous early adopters. A case in point is 64 Heath Drive in Gidea Park, unofficially known as Sunshine House. Built in 1934, it looks like a lost Le Corbusier villa: white, square, flat-roofed, with an avant-garde square hole punched in the top corner of its facade. The named architect was Francis Skinner, but the guiding hand was undoubtedly that of Skinner’s boss, Berthold Lubetkin, who went on to design modernist milestones such as London’s Highpoint apartment blocks, and London zoo’s spiralling penguin pool. This was one of his first British buildings.Sunshine House’s current residents, Alan and Christine Smith, discovered it by accident in 1997, when they went to view a nearby property. At the time, the house was obscured by a thick screen of leylandii. “As we drove down the road, Alan said, ‘Hang on a minute, that looks interesting,’” Christine remembers. “It had a For Sale board outside, so we had a goggle through the windows.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alan and Christine Smith. Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the Guardian“I said, ‘I don’t know anything about this house, but I tell you now it’s important,’” Alan says. “It was all downhill from there, wasn’t it?”The couple had their work cut out: the previous owners had attempted to deny the house’s modern roots, inserting fake ceiling beams, oak panelling and a brick fireplace. “They’d attempted to turn it into some sort of baronial barn,” Alan says. “It had been extensively Tudorised.”Six years, hours of research, innumerable nights and weekends, and “at least 15 skipfuls of crap” later, the house is now somewhere close to its original splendour. “The more we peeled out, the better it looked,” Christine says. Or, as Alan puts it, “Mies van der Rohe said, ‘Less is more.’ I say, ‘Less is more money.’”Alan has a background in manufacturing and craftsmanship and as well as doing much of the research and restoration himself, he built a lot of the furniture, too. “Twenty years ago, it was difficult to find modernist things,” he explains.The Smiths have not been slavish in their period detail, but sensitive enough for it to feel like both a 1930s house and a comfortable home. The steel light fittings are from Ikea (Alan noticed they resembled the ones Lubetkin used at Highpoint).In the morning, the sun shines on to the front, into the kitchen and through that square opening on to a sun terrace. At the end of the day, it sets in the back garden. “It took years for the penny to drop,” Alan says. “It wasn’t accidental.” Lubetkin took great care with the house’s orientation, he explains: the architect built a cardboard model of the house and put slow bromide film on the floor, then moved a lamp around it so he could see where the sunlight would fall at any time of any day of the year.Having cast off the leylandii and other encumbrances, the house is now something of a local landmark, and a source of pride, Christine says. “If I’m in the garden, it’s surprising how many people will stop and say, ‘I’ve always really liked your house.’”It was a similar story of a chance discovery for another couple, Alan and Victoria Waine, who live in Silver End, the workers’ town built by Francis Crittall in north Essex. They were driving through one day, 16 years ago, and noticed their future house, Wolverton, for sale. It is a handsome, white, flat-roofed affair with bright green details (all the windows are Crittall, of course, with their distinctive steel frames). The front facade is largely blank, save for a tall, triangular bay window and an ornate balcony above the front door.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alan and Victoria Waine: ‘We weren’t even considering moving, but we saw the For Sale sign go up and that was it.’ Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the Guardian“We’d always said, ‘Ooh, we like that house,’” Victoria says. At the time, they lived only three miles up the road.“We were quite happy where we were, to be honest,” Alan adds. “We weren’t even considering moving, but we saw the For Sale sign go up and that was it.” They pulled over, knocked on the door and made the deal.The Waines, who were both born in Essex, love the art deco period. Victoria ran antiques shops for 20 years and Alan is a former engineer and designer of tool-making equipment. “I like uncluttered design,” he says.Decor-wise, the house is a 1930s trove: parquet floors, armchairs veneered in wiggly-grained masur birch, pottery by Clarice Cliff and Susie Cooper. “We’d collected a lot of this before we moved here,” Victoria says. “You could say this is the ultimate collector’s item: buy the house and put the furniture in it.” Not that they’re obsessed, they stress. “We don’t play 30s music. We’ve got a modern hi-fi, not a gramophone,” Alan says.“You don’t want it to look like a shop,” Victoria says. “It’s a home. You’re always going to have things from different periods, stuff you inherited.”On the side of the house is a cosy, sunlit room lined with Crittall french windows and filled with plants, including cacti, bonsai and lemon trees. It looks like part of the original structure; in fact, Alan did it himself 10 years ago. “The windows came from various gardens within Essex,” he says. “I advertised for them on local radio and had six people phone up saying, ‘You can have them for nothing.’” It’s a place to listen to the radio and read the papers, and for their granddaughters to play.Wolverton was one of the “top of the range” Crittall managers’ houses in Silver End. There are two similar buildings nearby, both now semi-derelict, though the surrounding streets are terraced with more modest flat-roofed houses. Before the factory closed in 2005, all the houses would have been occupied by Crittall employees (if you lost your job, you lost your house, too). There’s still a community feel to the village, but people have less in common these days, the Waines say. Most commute outside the village or are retired, like them.Demographic changes are also afoot – in the opposite direction – at another modernist Essex town. Frinton Park Estate was an ambitious attempt to create a whole seaside neighbourhood in the new “international style”: more than 1,000 homes, plus a town hall, a church, shops and a hotel. Its principal designer was the flamboyant architect Oliver Hill, a modernist convert best known for Morecambe’s art deco Midland hotel. Unfortunately, Essex wasn’t ready to be that radical. The 1930s economy, the second world war and local tastes meant that only about 40 houses were built. The gaps have since been filled with decidedly unradical retirement bungalows and retro-modernist new-builds. Affirming another Essex stereotype, the town became known for its elderly colonels and Ukip supporters.But Frinton still has one of the largest concentrations of modernist houses in the country. That and the unspoilt, uncommercialised beachfront (if you want the kiss-me-quick experience, drive on to Clacton) has attracted a new generation, who are reviving the town’s crumbling 1930s building stock. The town has changed even since Charlie Inskip and his partner Nancy Stevenson first bought a house here 13 years ago. “When we started coming, we used to laugh that we were coming to the 1950s,” Nancy says. “It was so physically and socially removed from our day-to-day experience in London.”It’s less like that now, they say. “Most of the people who’ve moved into these houses are not Frinton born and bred,” Nancy says. In fact, it’s in danger of becoming fashionable.Charlie and Nancy, both academics, live and work in London, and use Frinton as their weekend retreat. “We disconnect from day-to-day life here,” Nancy says. “We don’t have internet or TV, there’s barely a phone signal. We’re by the sea, with fresh air, and the light in this house is amazing. It’s a haven.” They both enjoy sailing and exploring the backwaters, where you’ll find seal colonies and salt marshes.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Charlie Inskip and Nancy Stevenson: ‘We disconnect from day-to-day life here.’ Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the GuardianTheir house, built in 1936, was part of a second phase of smaller, more affordable Frinton homes (which still didn’t sell). Again, it is distinctly seaside-modern: a compact white cube with corner windows and a tall stair light above the front door. When they bought it three years ago (they had another house in Frinton before that), the previous owner had put in white PVC windows and added grey chevrons to the front facade.The couple’s approach to home improvement is relatively relaxed. They’re proceeding on an ad hoc basis, they say, as and when they get the funds. “Rather than being one of those ‘on your knees every weekend’ projects, we’re slowly turning it into the house we want,” Nancy says.“We’d rather be out on the water or on the beach than scrubbing walls,” Charlie adds.They also enjoy junk shopping locally, which they appear to be rather good at: they picked up their mid-century Danish dining chairs and table for a song. It’s a different period from the house, but they’re relaxed about that, too. “It’s refurbishment, not restoration,” Charlie says. “That lets us off the hook slightly.”A certain amount of maintenance is obligatory with a white house, though. “You have to paint it every couple of years because it starts going grey,” Charlie says. “There’s damp sea air, and sea birds doing what sea birds do, and that shows.”Charlie suggests that this could explain why these houses fell out of favour with the local, ageing population, who might have struggled with the upkeep: “Part of the thing about Essex is people like to have stuff that looks really nice: shiny, new, clean stuff.”Neither of them has strong Essex connections, but they say they can imagine retiring here. They exchange restoration tips with other new modernist homeowners nearby. And, like good academics, they’re also learning more about Essex’s forgotten, radical history. “This community had a really strong vision behind it,” Nancy says. “It was about creating a new way of living.”