Friends, colleagues and fans of actor John Hurt have paid tribute to him as “an extraordinary talent” following his death on Friday in London aged 77.John Hurt obituary In a nod to his broad and long career, actors and directors across generational divides recalled their experiences working with the British performer. Among the first to express their sorrow was Stephen Fry who said the world had lost a “great man”. Fry was joined by Elijah Wood, who worked with Hurt on The Oxford Murders, and said it had been an “honour”.Stephen Fry (@stephenfry)Oh no. What terrible news. We've lost #JohnHurt as great on the stage, small screen and big. A great man & great friend of Norfolk & #NCFCJanuary 28, 2017Elijah Wood (@elijahwood)Very sad to hear of John Hurt's passing. It was such an honor to have watched you work, sir.January 28, 2017JK Rowling tweeted of Hurt, who played wand-maker Garrick Ollivander in the film adaptations of her Harry Potter books: “So very sad to hear that the immensely talented and deeply beloved John Hurt has died. My thoughts are with his family and friends.”J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling)So very sad to hear that the immensely talented and deeply beloved John Hurt has died. My thoughts are with his family and friends.January 28, 2017Childline founder and president Dame Esther Rantzen hailed Hurt, who was a fundraiser for the children’s charity, saying he had an “extraordinary career”.Rantzen said she approached him after a London theatre performance, about 30 to 40 years after first meeting him when he was a young actor, and he “immediately agreed” to help the organisation.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  John Hurt, diverse actor of screen and stage, dies at 77She said: “He understood it was a unique way for children to seek help. There was something in his own past which made him connect with vulnerable children, I believe it happened when he was in school.“From then on he never turned us down, he spoke at events for us, telling stories of some of the children we had helped, and took part in carol services for us.“Because he was such a great artist, I remember writing for him and he gave it so much more strength because of the way he told it. He will be a great loss to the children in this country.”Director Mel Brooks said Hurt was a “truly magnificent talent” and would be sorely missed.Mel Brooks (@MelBrooks)No one could have played The Elephant Man more memorably. He carried that film into cinematic immortality. He will be sorely missed.January 28, 2017The tributes continued, with Jamie Lee Curtis tweeting: “John Hurt. Midnight Express. Nothing better. Ever.” Chris Evans, the star of Captain America, paid tribute to “one of the most powerful, giving, and effortlessly real actors I’ve ever worked with”.Chris Evans (@ChrisEvans)John Hurt was one of the most powerful, giving, and effortlessly real actors I've ever worked with. Remarkable human being. U will be missedJanuary 28, 2017Richard E Grant wrote: “So so sad to have lost such an extraordinary talent and friend. Sir John Hurt. RIP.”Richard E. Grant (@RichardEGrant)So so sad to have lost such an extraordinary talent and friend. Sir John Hurt. R. I. P. pic.twitter.com/J2eMMBVNLBJanuary 28, 2017Film-maker Kevin Smith tweeted: “Rest in Peace to the actor genius #JohnHurt. Most folks know him from Alien but I loved him as Sir Richard Rich from A Man for All Seasons.”KevinSmith (@ThatKevinSmith)Rest in Peace to the actor genius #JohnHurt. Most folks know him from ALIEN but I loved him as Sir Richard Rich from A Man for All Seasons. pic.twitter.com/DvOoftaijHJanuary 28, 2017Harry Potter fans raised their wands in honour of Hurt, referencing his wand-making role.shey (@samftdestieI)Wands up for John Hurt (Garrick Ollivander). pic.twitter.com/GOYAThO9ffJanuary 28, 2017Whovians also remembered Hurt fondly. Hurt played the War Doctor in three Doctor Who episodes. Doctor Who (@timeywimeypolls)RIP John Hurt aka The War Doctor aka Mr. ollivander aka one of the greatest actors to have ever graced the screen. pic.twitter.com/Wg6xxWhIAyJanuary 28, 2017Basic Instinct actor Sharon Stone said: “God speed to John Hurt, a legendary actor and good human being.”Billy Elliot actor Jamie Bell tweeted: “I will forever cherish the memories I have of the incomparable John Hurt. A brilliant actor & a beautiful soul.”Comic actor David Schneider wrote: “Sad re John Hurt. I was in a film with him and he was so mesmerising I kept forgetting to act and just watched him. A genius & a lovely man.”Footballer Stan Collymore said: “Rest In Peace John Hurt. What a wonderful actor and gentleman. Thank you for the memories.”Guns N’ Roses guitarist Slash tweeted: “RIP John Hurt. One of my all time favourite actors.”