Well, what exactly did you expect listeners of Radio X to vote for as their favourite British song of all time? Soweto Kinch’s Doxology? Something off the second Max Tundra album?There’s been plenty of online mockery of the radio station’s current poll, in which listeners voted Oasis’s Wonderwall as the best British song of all time, Oasis’s Don’t Look Back in Anger as the second best British song of all time, Oasis’s Champagne Supernova as the third best British song of all time, Oasis’s Live Forever as the fourth best British song of all time, and Oasis as the British artist most likely to break through in 2017.But again I ask: what did you expect? This is a station whose presenters include the following big hitters: Chris Moyles, Johnny Vaughan, Vernon Kay. This is a station whose tagline is: “Men, men, men, ya bastaaaard.” And a station whose current playlist includes Stereophonics, Adele and James Bay. If anything, it’s amazing that the listeners have weathered this relentless blandstorm and voted for 20 songs that are largely pretty decent. In fact, after being subjected to Dan “northern chap” O’Connell spinning Red Hot Chili Peppers at them for several weeks, it’s a miracle the listeners are voting in an online poll at all, rather than forming an underground militia and planning to stage a public execution of Catfish and the Bottlemen. Maybe they are. We wouldn’t know if it’s underground, after all.Besides, when these lists profess to be anything other than niche, audience-serving exercises, they’re usually dreary and canonical anyway – the same old names and the same old focus on straight white blokes, with the odd Marvin Gaye or Patti Smith album thrown in to avoid criticism. The only real difference being that this poll is a true reflection of what Radio X listeners like the most, rather than claiming to be a definitive list of the most important records ever made, as if the Rolling Stones and the Kinks really did invent pop music so that Shuggie Otis and the Slits could play around in it.Unlike many of these lists, at least the Radio X one is a coherent selection of 20 songs, and one you’d probably quite enjoy listening to. Who wouldn’t want to hear four beery Oasis anthems back to back? And then some Roses, Smiths and Joy Division! It’d be just like going to a student indie bar in either Manchester or 1998. And just like being in Manchester or 1998, you’d probably end up pissed, and having a raucous time. Which, no matter how much you like Latin-infused improv and alto sax, probably wouldn’t be the case if you were listening to Soweto Kinch.So there you go. Radio X listeners clearly know their music, clearly don’t care less what you think of their choices and are currently planning to hurl Catfish and the Bottlemen from the roof of Shipley town hall. So stop sniggering at their poll and put them in charge of all music from now on, I say.