Awards season is fast accelerating towards its glamorous peak, the Oscars. It will be a fabulous evening of gorgeous gowns and flawless complexions. Those on the red carpet will be scrutinised by millions. The pressure to look perfect must be huge.Humans have been augmenting their appearance as long as there have been humans. In the past men and women have risked their lives with killer cosmetics such as white lead, and fatal fashions including arsenic-laced clothes, and much else besides. But surely nothing so toxic would be used today? And yet, I’m sure that at the very least one or two of the celebs seen gracing the red carpet have been dosed with the most toxic substance known.Poison tales: the chemistry of crime fiction – Science Weekly podcast In attempts to defy the inevitable signs of ageing some people use Botox to smooth wrinkles. Botox is the brand name to the cosmetic treatment but the active ingredient in the injections is botulinum toxin. The toxin is produced by the bacteria Clostridium botulinum and it is staggeringly toxic. It is seven million times more toxic than cobra venom. A pint of pure botulinum toxin could kill everyone on the planet. All of them.The name for the toxin comes from botulism, a condition described as far back as the 1790s, and named after the latin for sausage because the condition could be caused by tainted sausages. The anaerobic C. botulinum bacteria were particularly common in sausages or inside cans of tinned meat but it could infect other food. The chances of being affected by botulism were considerably greater in the days before modern sterilisation techniques and regulations over how food is stored. Today, the most common form of botulism is infant botulism, or floppy baby syndrome. But thankfully even this is very rare and unlikely to be fatal if treated. Babies’ guts are more susceptible to infection because they are less able to fight off the bacterial infection. For this reason it is advised that honey is not fed to children under the age of twelve months as it is a natural reservoir for bacterial spores. From the bacteria’s point of view it is producing the toxin to kill off tissue from its surroundings so it can expand and colonise new areas. In humans, botulinum toxin affects the nerves by stopping chemical signals from nerve endings being released. This means nerve signals cannot be passed on to adjoining cells, be they another nerve or muscle cell. No matter how strong the signals, nothing gets through. In food poisoning symptoms can appear a few hours or a few days after eating the tainted food. It begins with drooping eyes, paralysis of the face and difficulty swallowing. As the toxin spreads it stops messages being sent to the muscles that control breathing. Botulinum toxin kills because the victim suffocates.This dramatic effect on nerves can have positive benefits. Botulinum toxin was first employed medically to treat muscle spasms. People with painful, permanent muscle contraction, also known as muscle spasticity, could receive a course of botulinum toxin that would stop nerve signals arriving at the muscle, which would then relax. Strabismus, crossed-eyes, can also be treated with the toxin, relaxing the muscles and allowing the eyes to straighten. Unfortunately it is not a permanent fix. After about six months the effects wear off as the body replaces the enzymes that have been immobilised by the botulinum toxin, and another series of injections is required. During treatments for strabismus it was noticed that the preorbital wrinkles (crows-feet) in the patients were noticeably diminished. It was therefore suggested that botulinum toxin could also be used for cosmetic purposes. Wrinkled brows and crows-feet would be smoothed out after a treatment of botulinum because the muscles that would normally wrinkle the face simply cannot move.In recent years botulinum toxin has been approved for the treatment of severe pain in the form of chronic migraines. Excessive sweating, hyperhidrosis, can also be treated by paralysing the nerves that stimulate the sweat glands. This can also be of benefit on Oscars night – or any other high-pressure situation for that matter. The lights, photographers and all round scrutiny of being the red carpet must be quite stressful and a natural reaction would be to perspire a bit. To save the expensive gowns and prevent unsightly sweat marks, botulinum toxin can be injected under the arms to stop the sweating.But should we worry about injecting something so powerfully toxic? In fact, although botulinum toxin is incredibly toxic it is also remarkably safe. Tiny amounts of highly diluted toxin are injected into specific sites so that the effects are localised. The bottles of botulinum toxin used in clinics and hospitals are packaged so that, in theory, you could inject a whole bottle and the patient still wouldn’t receive a lethal dose. The sale and use of these bottles are also tightly regulated. There may be some side-effects from the injections, such as difficulty chewing solid food, but this is rare, and guidelines for those administering the injections list the signs to look for. Just in case the worst should happen there are also antitoxins available, antibodies that bind specifically to the toxin and render it ineffective. As of 2008 there has not been a single death associated with the cosmetic use of botulinum toxin, with the important caveat that these were injections of standard approved formulations. However, severe side effects (but no deaths) have been noted in those undergoing treatment for a medical condition. Medical use of botulinum toxin usually involves much higher doses but the individuals affected were believed to have had a previously undiagnosed underlying condition, myasthenia gravis, that paralysis muscles in the face. This is an incredibly good track record considering there are an estimated three million injections of botulinum toxin every year.Bacteria are incredibly beneficial to humans in many ways but it’s nice to think that a type of bacteria that causes horrible food poisoning in one situation, can be transformed into successful medical treatments in another. But it also takes the shine off cosmetic treatments when you realise people are being injected with sausage poison.