Not long before she died, the novelist Molly Keane took her daughter Sally’s hand and made what Sally knows must have been an extremely difficult, and painful, admission.“She said: ‘You and I are such different cups of tea that I think sometimes I have been very nasty and unfair to you,’” remembers Sally. “It was an important remark, and I knew she was aware of its significance.”Molly’s relationship with Sally had never been easy. An extrovert, Molly – who died in 1996 at the age of 91 – often seemed infuriated by elements of her daughter’s character: her natural introspection, unpunctuality, tendency to comfort eat, and self-confessed laziness. What made all this so fascinating was that Molly’s stock-in-trade as a writer, the theme that came up time and again through her long career, was fractured mother-daughter relationships.Until now, it’s the bond between Molly and her own mother, a poet from Antrim called Nesta Skrine, that has been the focus for commentators interested in the personal hinterland that gave rise to characters such as Aroon St Charles, who kills her disabled mother by feeding her rabbit mousse in the novel Good Behaviour, or Maman in Loving and Giving, who is impatient with her eight-year-old daughter’s efforts to please and who eventually disappears to join her lover, never to return.Now, though, comes the opportunity to examine a new facet of Molly’s favourite subject, because Sally has written her mother’s biography, in which she is extremely candid about the relationship between them.It’s tempting to assume that history repeated itself, and that the same tensions that underpinned her mother’s relationship with her grandmother resurfaced in her relationship with her own mother.But, says Sally, that assumption would be wrong. With Nesta and Molly, says Sally, the problems came down to different temperaments, and there was a lack of rapport.“My grandmother was Victorian and Protestant; Mum was very Latin and fast in a 20s kind of way, which was her era. They didn’t see eye to eye, and that meant Mrs Skrine found Molly very difficult and disapproved of her, and then Mum felt rejected – and she used those feelings in many of her novels.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Molly Keane in her garden.The real bugbear for Molly, though – and this plays out in her books – was that she felt unloved by Nesta. It was partly to do with their milieu: the Skrines were Anglo-Irish, part of Ireland’s English elite who inhabited large, draughty country piles and ran the country for more than 100 years. The Anglo-Irish practised a particularly concentrated form of upper-class Englishness, in which some of the most psychologically damaging elements of that group were magnified. It was a world where children were raised by nannies and had little contact with their parents, and where feelings tended to be unspoken, and were frequently buried, and funnelled into an almost fanatical interest in hunting, which, says Sally, was “almost a religion for them”. In some ways, we had a closer relationship with the staff, the groom and the cookSally Phipps, daughter of Molly Keane Molly was acutely aware of the shortcomings in her childhood, and anxious to rectify them when she became a mother.“She was much more involved in the lives of me and my sister than her parents had been in the lives of her and her siblings; she was very aware of the importance of fun, in a way that her mother hadn’t really understood.” One interesting parallel between the two generations was that Nesta and Molly were extremely happy in their marriages; indeed, Molly’s parents’ happiness was so great that it was problematic to Molly, who felt herself excluded.Molly’s own marriage was slightly risque, to a handsome gentleman farmer called Bobbie six years her junior with whom she had a secret affair for four years before marrying him. Like her parents’ marriage before her, her union was extraordinarily happy. But Molly had learned from their mistakes: “My parents never excluded my sister and me, they were always interested in us and always showing their affection for us,” says Sally.Sadly, the marriage was interrupted by Bobbie’s premature death, at the age of 36, from complications from an operation for an ulcer. After that, Molly threw herself heart and soul into making sure life was as exciting and interesting as possible for Sally and her younger daughter, Virginia.But still there was her acerbic nature, which Sally is honest about. “She could be unfair, and she could be very sharp. There was a streak of cruelty in her and I think I sometimes came up against that.”Which is why the apology, as she was dying, was so important. And researching Molly’s life for the biography has made her see her mother in a new light. “It wasn’t just Molly, it was the society in which she lived and was raised,” says Sally. “People in her circles expressed their emotions in very different ways – and there was a very different attitude to children in those days. In some ways, we had a closer relationship with the staff, the groom and the cook; they were very Irish and very affectionate, quite different from the Anglo-Irish.”In a sense, the chance to write the biography was Molly’s last gift to her elder daughter: she suggested the task to her at the end of her life, telling Sally to “make it as much like a novel as possible”.Writing Molly’s biography has forced her to confront the difficulties in their relationship, but to emerge with a deeper understanding of her mother and what drove her, as a writer and as an individual. “She had such a brilliant sense of humour and such a strong wit. But she had this sense of compassion as well as her crossness, and I think it was a burden for her to carry kindness alongside her stiletto sharpness.”Sally herself has stepchildren – “you’re a different sort of mother when you’re a stepmother” – but writing the book has helped her to see where the difficulties between her and her mother, and between so many mothers and daughters, come from. “I think it’s all to do with wanting your child to be different from the way they actually are, because you’re frightened for them, you’re frightened about what they’re going to do to themselves and you desperately want the best for them.”In a reversal of that, Sally has done her best for her mother. In asking her to write about her life, Molly confessed that her biggest fear was that her daughter “wouldn’t be nasty enough”. She was right to worry, because the kind-hearted Sally has not been nasty at all; a neat final twist in the story of the writer whose pen so often recorded tales of devastating, and damning, mother-daughter strife.• Molly Keane: A Life by Sally Phipps is published by Virago, £20. To order a copy for £17, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call the Guardian Bookshop on 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.