A few years ago I went to my doctor to prepare for a fast I was doing for a magazine article.“Is there anything you can suggest to help my body adjust to not eating?” I asked my doctor. She wrote out a prescription and said, “This.”“This” was expensive. It cost $100 to get it filled but my doctor assured me it would suppress my appetite and get me used to a period of time without food.I only took one pill but it freaked me out so badly I shoved the rest to the back of the medicine cabinet. What was this horrific stuff? I couldn’t believe that my doctor had prescribed it. Lines of speed snorted from the cistern in a nightclub toilet apparently provided a smoother ride than this pill that I could buy legally.In their own words: students share their views on smart drugs “What happened to your pupils?” asked one friend I met at the theatre two days later. They were still the size of dinner plates. This drug not only made my appetite disappear but it made me hyper-focused, energetic and uncharacteristically enthusiastic about cleaning.Yet it also made me feel terrible. I was under a cloud of neg. I couldn’t imagine anyone taking these pills for a good time. In fact, they almost guaranteed you would have an awful time. The anxiety was the worst. Everything became suffused with a sort of swampy dread.Yet despite hating them, I sensed the pills were filled with secret powers for uses they were not intended for. I decided – perhaps unwisely – not to throw them out.And now I read that I was not alone in this thinking. The Sydney Morning Herald has reported that prescription drug use by students before exams is on the increase, a trend first seen in the US. Chris Seton, a paediatric and adolescent sleep physician at the Woolcock Institute and Westmead Children’s Hospital, told Fairfax that drugs such as ritalin and modafinil were being used in Australian classrooms. An increase in the use of the same drugs has been reported in the UK.Ritalin is used to treat attention deficit disorders while modafinil is used to treat sleep disorders such as narcolepsy. Their use as study aids, or “smart drugs”, shows that many students now think of them as performance-enhancing drugs for the brain.Last Monday, with the manuscript of a book due in three weeks and my pace and energy flagging, I decided to break open my “in case of emergency” stash of pills. While the drug I was prescribed was not ritalin or modafinil, it shares some similar side effects.This is what happened.I got all my work done This part of writing a book is largely organisational, and I’d been putting it off. The task involves a large amount of focus – being able to hold lots of information about the project in my head at once – and discarding the bits I do not need or are repetitive. Normally I would allocate a couple of weeks to this grim task but this time I am going to try and break the back of it in two days.In a bizarre coincidence, just after I took the pill, I heard a segment about abuse of prescription medication on the radio. The program interviewed a number of people who – just like me – are misusing prescription drugs to get a large amount of work done in a short amount of time.“Users describe feeling a speedy high that helps them concentrate for hours on the task at hand, whether that be a uni assignment, major work project or staying awake at gigs,” read the program’s promo.I wonder what it says about this moment in history, that we are abusing drugs so we can get more work done? I did get a lot of work done.I got no sleepBefore I took the pill, I set my alarm for 5am because I knew from previously taking it that it lasts and lasts, and unless I took it it really early in the morning, I would not get any sleep. At the end of day one, I was still working on the project at around midnight and did not feel fatigued. I achieved a lot. I woke around 4am the following day, full of energy. I sent dozens of emails, including answering tricky emails I had put off, then decided to buy some outdoor furniture. It’s a big purchase that I had been considering for months. But in action-mode on my “smart drug” I decided to finally tick it off my list and bought a six-seater outdoor table with cushions and an umbrella. Prescription drug forums are really interestingSince my doctor didn’t tell me much about the drug she had prescribed me, I Googled it and found a forum. People who are taking the drug as an appetite suppressant were reporting mood swings, anxiety, sleeplessness, weight loss and the urge to clean. Every now and again someone jumped on the thread and issued warnings in caps such as, “STAY AWAY FROM THIS DRUG – IT MADE ME A SLEEPLESS AND CRAZY MONSTER.”The energy is falseOn day one, I was well on my way to doing a week’s worth of work. Plus I’d cleaned the house! I swept and mopped. Then I went to the gym. The trainer gave me the 6kg weights to lift and I could only manage four reps. Before taking the pill, I was lifting 8kg. “You’re much weaker today,” she said, looking concerned. “I haven’t had much to eat,” I admitted. I did not tell her about the pill. I slunk out of the gym. Some things can’t be manipulated – muscles need protein for fuel.What goes up must come downOn the second day, I called a friend to tell her about all the great things I bought online during my day of unbound energy. It was a weird list: a bicycle helmet, tennis racquet, a foam roller, two bookshelves, a wardrobe, boxes for shoes, an outdoor table setting, a shade cloth, an umbrella, 12 cushions. Thinking of doing a detox diet? Be warned: this is what happens to your body | Brigid Delaney “You bought a helmet?” she asked. I do not have a bike.Then I noticed I had purchased two six-piece outdoor furniture settings. It was like I was setting up a cafe or something. I called the store, embarrassed, and cancelled the entire order.“Yeah, I don’t need two lots of outdoor furniture. It was a mistake.”By about 4pm, my energy was fading. I had been working on the same sentence for an hour, and then a colleague advised: “Close the computer. You need to sleep. Your brain needs respite for a while.”I slept for a couple of hours, then headed back to the gym. I was still weak, so I abandoned my workout.By day three, my appetite was back to normal, and I returned to my usual unfocused self. My magic powers had deserted me. But were they really magic or were they the equivalent of taking out a payday loan? It’ll get you through what you need to get through today – but you’ll pay through the nose, with interest, tomorrow.It turns out you can’t sleep for four hours in two days without paying a price.I was fast asleep by 6pm, which meant losing precious hours that I could be working on my manuscript. I vowed not to take the pills again.