A series of landmark infrastructure projects to protect New York City and New Jersey from flooding have been given the go-ahead after the conclusion of a record-breaking design competition.The innovative schemes – with a total budget of almost $1bn – will protect the vital urban areas from rising sea levels and storm surges, such as was caused by hurricane Sandy in 2012. The design competition – the largest of its kind in US history – was launched by Rebuild by Design, a body created in response to hurricane Sandy.Previously, contests such as Green Nola after hurricane Katrina – which received significant national attention because actor Brad Pitt was closely involved – took a similar approach to disaster recovery but lacked the backing of the federal government, as well as the funding and implementation support that is a central component of the Rebuild by Design contest.The winning entries include a $335m (£200m) flood barrier along Manhattan’s Lower East Side and a $60m living breakwater along Staten Island’s South Shore. In New Jersey, $230m will go into creating a “resiliency district” in Hoboken, with the hope of encouraging public-private finance to further enhance the area.  Enhancing social infrastructure is key to the ‘Big U’ design for Lower Manhattan; this recreation area is known as the Big Bench. Illustration: BIG ArchitectsSuch significant financial support from the federal government not only marks a notable shift in the way that the US Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) distributes disaster relief funds, it also establishes a powerful new role for design competitions in the US.Asked why HUD decided to hold the competition, Holly Leicht, the department’s New York and New Jersey regional administrator, said, “There were two driving factors: the first was an affirmative decision that community development disaster recovery money should be spent not just on immediate recovery, but also on long-term future resilience. Because there was an emphasis on that, it was immediately felt that this should be done in a far-reaching way to bring in innovative ideas.“The second driving fact is that government does not have all the answers. And HUD secretary [Shaun] Donovan is very committed to get the most forward-looking, creative thinking in the world on resilience. And it would be hard to argue that other places –particularly in regard to water vulnerability – are not ahead of us. That international focus, we wanted to tap into that.”  The winning $60m ‘Living Breakwaters’ design aims to provide a natural buffer around the south shore of Staten Island. Illustration: Scape/Landscape ArchitectureTheir timelines for completion have not been set, but New York mayor Bill de Blasio promised that work would begin as soon as possible and continue until the job was done. “Over four or five years, you’ll see a hugely different physical reality in this city,” he said.Despite the excitement surrounding these projects, there is some evidence that design contests do not always produce the most popular results. An Ohio State University study of “80 buildings recognised as architectural masterpieces found that only three resulted from design competitions — and in one of the three a losing design was recognised as the masterpiece.”This is an edited extract of an article first published on the Next City website; it is reproduced with kind permission.