‘The colour is so alive and so free, it almost makes you laugh out loud,” says Fleur Darkin, talking about Robert Mapplethorpe’s flower photographs from the late 1980s. “It’s the first time he uses colour after a life of black and white,” the choreographer explains. “And it’s like he is finally surpassing the need to be cool, and he comes out with his true love for colour and life and nature in all its glory.”Mapplethorpe’s images are the inspiration behind Darkin’s latest work for Scottish Dance Theatre, Velvet Petal, which premieres in Mexico tonight. The US photographer is better known for his monochrome portraits treating the naked body as still life and for chronicling the sexual subcultures of New York in the 1970s. But for Darkin, his bright and detailed closeups of flowers embody a real sense of transformation. “We have tried to do the same in the show,” she says. “Stick to black and white … and then an epiphanic colour burst at the end.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tough girls and pretty boys … Velvet Petal. Photograph: Brian HartleyThe sense of emerging from the chrysalis and realising your true nature is at the heart of Velvet Petal, a work that began when Darkin read Patti Smith’s memoir Just Kids. The book recounts Smith’s early years in New York, living with Mapplethorpe at the Chelsea Hotel, scraping by, making art and rubbing shoulders with rock stars, drag queens and Factory girls. Darkin’s show is not a narrative – “I wasn’t going to make Bob and Patti: The Ballet,” she says – it’s more about embodying a coming-of-age spirit. “To me, the real richness in that book is not the bit when their work is successful,” she says. “It’s capturing that age when you are constantly creating and transforming yourself. It’s about people metamorphosing.”Like Mapplethorpe himself, Velvet Petal plays with a fluid and fluctuating idea of identity, especially sexuality. “I’m not really interested in showing a ‘gay’ character or a ‘straight’ character,” says Darkin. “What am I going to do, a duet with two men to show they’re gay? It just seems sort of embarrassing. It’s not good enough for a subject Mapplethorpe is so sophisticated on.”“We have tough girls and pretty boys,” she says of the piece. “It’s almost like gender only exists on first glance, and the longer you look at bodies, it disappears. Gender is this huge thing to play with and create outrage with, it’s incredibly potent; and yet on one level it’s a fiction.”For Darkin, a lot of this project has been about looking past first impressions. I suggest that the perfection of Mapplethorpe’s flower pictures makes them seem a bit static. “I would say, spend another minute with it and you start to see movement,” she counters. “You see growth patterns in the shape of the flower. You can see life. It connects you to infinity. I can look at those flowers and feel like crying.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘His Polaroids are just so electric and they speak so much of that age in life when you’re on the margins’ … Velvet Petal. Photograph: Brian Hartley“A lot of things we think we understand at first glance but actually it’s when we spend time letting the object communicate with us that the magic happens – and I think this is true for dance,” she says. “If you look at [Mapplethorpe’s] Polaroids, you see the way people present themselves, the things they show and the things they hide. You see these little telling details, how people hold their hands. And that feels really close to dance.”The flower photos inspire the climax of Velvet Petal, but Darkin has also looked at Mapplethorpe’s collages and his early portraits. “His Polaroids are just so electric and they speak so much of that age in life when you’re on the margins, dreaming about being at the centre.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘You see the way people present themselves, the things they show and the things they hide.’ Photograph: Brian HartleyDarkin spent her own formative years dreaming in her Bristol bedroom “of being a musician and a writer and a dancer”, she says. “So it feels like a miracle because I’m sort of doing all three through this.” But she’s now less sure about whether being at the centre of things is the best environment for an artist. She ran her own company, Darkin Ensemble, for the best part of a decade, until taking over as artistic director at Scottish Dance Theatre in 2012. She moved from London to Dundee and has experienced a flowering of her own. “It’s really rich living and working here,” she says. “It’s such a different sensibility, in the best way. It’s cheap for artists to live, everyone walks to work. I remember doing rehearsals in London where dancers have done their two-hour commute just to get to the studio. Here it’s just easy, and there’s a real mentality of sharing. There’s much more collectivism.”Collaboration is almost an obsession for Darkin – what her publicity material calls an “open-source hothouse approach to dance making” – meaning that the performers and collaborators shape the work as much as Darkin does. For Velvet Petal she’s worked with Mexican new music ensemble Cepromusic, composer Victor Ibarra, writer Pamela Carter and photographer Jack Wrigley. The collaborative process is a way of sparking constant reinvention. “We’re trying to find new movement that’s fresh and feels like it’s just dawning on us today, and there are no habits and cliches,” says Darkin. It’s her own daily metamorphosis.Velvet Petal has its world premiere at Teatro de la Danza, Mexico City, on 12 October. Its UK premiere is at Tramway, Glasgow, on 6 May 2017. Then it departs on a UK tour.