Forget the the Gucci Gs, Versace’s medusa or Louis Vuitton’s monogramme. The insider logo to wear in fashion right now? Nasa’s. See Kylie Jenner with her Nasa sweatshirt – as seen on Instagram this weekend. While that V Files sweatshirt is actually the really cult reference of nineties club night Nasa – AKA Nocturnal Audio and Sensory Awakening – that’s obviously a bit double-layered in the first place. Nasa jackets, patched with badges from the space agency, are the best bomber to wear right now. Sarah Snyder, Ciara and Joey Bada$$ have worn the Alpha Industries one and Versace put similar design on the men’s catwalk for autumn.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kylie Jenner wearing a Nasa sweatshirt in an Instagram selfie. Photograph: InstagramOf course, none of them wear them even slightly as well as Buzz Aldrin. He wears his as standard and, being an actual astronaut, brings some proper gravitas to this trend. His 1969 look – actually on the moon – is now classic.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Buzz Aldrin in his Nasa jacket – and matching T-shirt. Photograph: Martial Trezzini/EPAOf course, momentous, Mad Men episode-worthy events like this are what this whole Nasa thing is all about. Fashion people love to plug into clever wondrous things because sometimes, you know, they’re clever and wondrous too. They’re also pretty good at using these interests and bringing them into designs. Nicolas Ghesquiere, Creative Director of Louis Vuitton, only follows 91 accounts on Instagram. One of them is Nasa. For his spring collection, videos of Nasa flight reactors played in the background of his catwalk show.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A Chris Wood dichroic sculpture. The artist has now collaborated with Fendi. Photograph: Chris WoodKarl Lagerfeld, a man known for an almost pathological affinity with the future, has collaborated with artist Chris Wood for Fendi’s windows this month. Wood uses dichroic, a transparent coloured material a bit like perspex developed by Nasa to filter wavelengths of light. Turns out it looks pretty when used in sculptures in spiral patterns too. And Donatella Versace, speaking to the Guardian in Januaryabout her space-themed collection, said “the ultimate expression of the future is space”. That’s a pretty good confirmation that Nasa’s world of space flight is now firmly in the fashion fold.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A model wearing a Versace take on the Nasa jacket for autumn/winter 2016. Photograph: SIPA/REX/ShutterstockNasa’s blue chip associations with the mind-blowing ideas of all things cosmic is one thing that fashion enjoys about it. The other is a bit more prosaic. Put simply, it has a really great logo. The blue circle, with red wishbone and galaxy of stars, dates back to very beginnings of Nasa – and was designed by James Modarelli, when Nasa was founded. He based the red swoosh on the shape of a supersonic aeroplane designed to fly at Mach 3.0, and added stars and the swirl of an orbital path around the white letters of Nasa. If all that sounds suitably star-shaped, the name brings things back down to earth. It’s called the “meatball” in Nasa circles. The chunky sci-fi looking letters introduced by Nasa in 1975 (very rave) doesn’t fare much better – it’s called the “worm”. With both now in the fashion orbit as timeless symbols of space and the final frontier, worms and meatballs are suddenly stylish. Who ever thought that would happen?