Peter Bland was beating together butter and sugar and eggs in a bowl on the kitchen table. One of those Lakeland shepherds who wash their hands and don a pinny after a day spent sorting Limousin cattle or gathering Herdwick ewes, he delights in baking. Delicious? The slice of sponge cake he offered me was as light as a proverbial feather.Spayning the lambs off the ewes has ended, with the lambs now separated from their mothers going to lowland farms for winter. The next red-letter occasion in the shepherd’s calender is December’s tupping-time. Hence, during these dog-days in between, the Grasmere shepherd’s preoccupation with a “woowed” ewe, which was tupped at the end of last year by a Cheviot ram for the fat lamb market but has since evaded gathering and has been running wild deep in the crags of Greenhow End. (Woowed means woolled, heavily fleeced.)Its lamb, which was born on the fell and has never been gathered in, is now a risk to Bland’s flock. Should it start “working” on the heights among the other sheep, it could produce Cheviot-strain lambs that would taint the pure Herdwick strain.Bland is a former rugby player, a powerful man you could easily imagine charging into opponents hell for leather in Davidson Park, Keswick rugby football club’s home under Skiddaw. He admitted to having had his hands on this wily lamb in the summer, but it managed to wriggle free.As he added cherries into the bowl, he was planning ahead for the first fine day. Then he would form a posse to hunt down the ewe and its “white lamb”, so-called because, having never been gathered in, it consequently has no coloured smit marks nor ear marks to identify it. The lamb also has no fear of dogs, and when finally caught will be unmanageable until it learns that sheepdogs can give the occasional corrective nip to bring it under control.• The Guardian’s former northern editor Martin Wainwright will chair a discussion on Country Diary with diarists Mark Cocker and Derek Niemann and former editor Celia Locks at 11.30am on Saturday 15 November, as part of the sixth annual gathering of New Networks for Nature at Stamford Arts Centre, Lincolnshire