A “hallucinogenic, feverish” Argentinian debut novel is up against big-hitters from Israel’s Amos Oz and France’s Mathias Énard, for the Man Booker international prize for fiction in translation.Two novels from Israel were revealed to have made the shortlist, alongside books from Argentina, France, Norway and Denmark, at a ceremony in London on Thursday evening. The annual award, which celebrates the finest global fiction translated into English, is worth £50,000, which is split evenly between the winning author and translator.The shortlist sees established names out of the running, including Ismail Kadare, Alain Mabanckou and Yan Lianke, and introduces some new faces to English-reading audiences – including Samanta Schweblin, who, at 39, is the youngest author listed and the only one making her debut in English.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Feverish debut... Samanta Schweblin.The shortest novel on the list, Schweblin’s Fever Dream sees a dying woman recount her recent past to a boy at her hospital bedside. In its review, the Guardian called it “terrifying and brilliant”. Chair of the jury, Edinburgh international book festival director Nick Barley praised it as “an extraordinary, hallucinogenic, feverish experience - you can read it 90 minutes and it is a rush.” A win for Schweblin would mean a Man Booker hat trick for her publisher Oneworld, which has scooped the English language iteration of the prize two years running, with Marlon James’s A Brief History of Seven Killings and Paul Beatty’s The Sellout. Other newcomers include Norwegian writer Roy Jacobsen, whose novel The Unseen - a family epic tracking generations living on a small Norwegian island - was described by Barley as “perhaps one of the most traditional novels” on the list. Dorthe Nors’s Mirror, Shoulder, Signal, framed around a confrontational driving lesson, is a “exquisite exposition” and “the funniest book on the list, the quirkiest and the one that will split the critics the most – but we all loved it,” said Barley.Pitted against the newcomers are literary giants: Amos Oz’s 17th novel Judas, about an old man and a young man making sense of the world in a house in Jerusalem, was deemed by Barley to be “the novel [Oz] has been waiting his whole life to write” and “an extraordinary achievement”. The other Israeli contender, David Grossman’s A Horse Walks Into a Bar, sees a standup comedian have a personal breakdown on stage; the judges praised it as being “unforgettable” and “bold”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   “An extraordinary achievement” … Amos OzFrance’s Énard, an Arabic and Persian scholar, has already won the prestigious Prix Goncourt for Compass, about an insomniac musicologist who spends a night drifting through dreams and memories. “In the hands of a lesser writer, to write about one person’s sleepless night could’ve been a disaster, but this is an extraordinary novel,” Barley said, adding that the novel’s examination of Orientalism is “so necessary that we understand right now, at a time of Islamophobia, eastern Europe in troubled times and Europe in its fractured state.”Praising the shortlisted writers for their collective exploration of human fallibility, Barley said it was as difficult establish a 13-book longlist from 126 novels, as it was to whittle the longlist down to six. “It is a bit like walking through a city and on the first walk you take you are focused on just how to get there... on the second walk you notice the trees are in blossom or if there is rubbish on the pavement. You notice entirely new things.” There is no current, obvious favourite: “But everyone one of these six books could win, is good enough to win.”Translated fiction now accounts for seven per cent of literary fiction sales in the UK, a figure Barley said was “in no small part thanks to this prize”. Since her win last year, The Vegetarian, by South Korea’s Han Kang, has sold 160,000 copies of the UK edition alone.“I don’t want people to think there is an odd quality in translated fiction that makes it harder to read, or that you have to be brainier. These are great books, full stop,” Barley said, adding: “Quite honestly, the world needs us to read books like these, at a time of bombastic politics and the building of walls. We need to get inside the minds of people who have other perspectives, think in other languages. International fiction allows us to do that. I’d like to send this shortlist to Donald Trump for his birthday.”The winner will be revealed at a ceremony in London on 14 June.Man Booker International prize and Dorthe Nors – books podcast 2017 Man Booker international prize shortlistCompass by Mathias Enard, translated by Charlotte Mandell (Fitzcarraldo Editions)A Horse Walks Into a Bar by David Grossman, translated by Jessica Cohen (Jonathan Cape)The Unseen by Roy Jacobsen, translated by Don Bartlett and Don Shaw (Maclehose)Mirror, Shoulder, Signal by Dorthe Nors, translated by Misha Hoekstra (Pushkin Press)Judas by Amos Oz, translated by Nicholas de Lange (Chatto & Windus)Fever Dream by Samanta Schweblin, translated by Megan McDowell (Oneworld)