I wake in the early morning to the sound of the living room ceiling caving in. The weight of the overflowing bathwater has become such that it can no longer sustain the pressure. As I roll up my pyjama bottoms and make my way down the waterfall of the stairs, I note that my father, stark-bollock naked but for a tatty violet dressing gown, is in up to his mid-calf. He is baling frantically. “Help,” he says.We always joke that my father could sleep through anything, but the rushing sound from the overflowing bath rouses even him. My little brother is obsessed with water. He spends hours in the bathroom, flicking the water in the bath with his hands as he stands over it, splashing. I have no idea what it is he sees, but I imagine colours. When he is not doing that, he is down by the lake with my mother, walking along the rocks, throwing stones in to make them splash. And when he is not doing that, he is at the pool, with his Postman Pat trunks and his snorkel mask, jumping in the deep end because, even though he is only five, he is a very strong swimmer. Not that he has a particular stroke – he swims with a sort-of lopsided doggy paddle. This causes problems a couple of years later when my dad’s new girlfriend takes us to the Haven holiday park and the lifeguard refuses to let him go on the waterslide unless he can demonstrate that he can swim two lengths of the pool. “He’s autistic,” we try to explain, “he doesn’t exactly respond to instructions.” But they refuse to let him on, and my little brother cries.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rhiannon and her brother. All photos: Rhiannon Lucy CosslettIt’s different at home, though. At home, my brother can pretty much do whatever he wants, and if playing at the bath makes him happy, then that is what we let him do. The problems only start when he gets up in the middle of the night, puts the plug in, runs the taps, and goes back to bed. My mother is a light sleeper, but she is on her first weekend away since my brother was born.“Shit, shit, shit,” my dad is going. I’m holding a saucepan and helping him to bale water out of the front door. My brother, who genuinely looks like an angel – wide, blue eyes, chubby cheeks, blond hair, dimples – is watching excitedly, his hands flapping.“Want to go swimming,” he says.That much is obvious.After the flood comes the fire.My little brother’s favourite book is Baby Bear Goes to the Moon. In it, Baby Bear puts a colander on his head and, using a cardboard box, goes up the chimney to the moon. We read it to him almost every night as he snuggles down under his Thomas the Tank Engine duvet. It doesn’t occur to us that he might take it literally.By this point, my parents have split up. My dad comes over and we go for a walk. We both cry. We are walking up the hill in the gloaming when we see the smoke. My mother is throwing burning cushions out of the front door and shouting. My brother’s spacecraft of choice – an unfireproofed, brown and orange floral camp bed mattress dating from the 70s, burns on the terrace. Inside, next to the fire in the grate that my brother and his mattress have attempted to sit on, a moss-green armchair is in flames. This is all I remember.My mum tells me later, when I am 28 and having therapy, that I was frantic with panic. “You were running around shouting,” she says, “you said you thought we were both dead.” I have no memory of this, and wonder if perhaps I have buried it. My therapist says that I have an unconscious well of anger towards my brother. I counter that disability isn’t always this terrible, traumatic thing, and that we even laugh about it. He says that laughter is an inappropriate response. I say that I really don’t feel angry towards my brother at all, that I miss him, that I feel heartbroken that I will never live with him again, at the childhood we have lost. He says the anger is unconscious so I wouldn’t know if I was feeling it or not, and that it takes a long time, perhaps years’ worth of sessions, to release. How terribly convenient, I think.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rhiannon’s brother as a young child. Photograph: Rhiannon Lucy CosslettHere are some things that my brother likes to do at home: he draws on the walls. He climbs up the outside of the banisters, even when he is tiny, less than two foot tall, his little feet dangling six feet off the ground. He “posts” important letters and bills down the back of the storage heater and radiators. He stands on top of the dishwasher and steps over the gap on to the edge of the kitchen counter, then back again. He empties the Ali Baba washing basket and wears it. He climbs up on to the shelf of the airing cupboard and poos all over the clean laundry. He empties all the cereal and all the orange juice on to the kitchen floor. He plays the first 26 seconds of Layla, right up to the bit where Clapton starts singing, then presses repeat on the CD player. He does this over and over. Our house is always full of music. Sometimes, this is a good thing, like the moment when we realise he can dance, because he is swaying from one foot to another to Lonesome Highway by Shane MacGowan, and he lets us hold his hands and sway with him, and we cry. At other times, it is not so good, like when he becomes obsessed with the Gipsy Kings (or the “Travelling Monarchs” as we refer to them in code, lest we inspire him to put them on again) and we begin to feel like we live in a Mexican restaurant. To this day, if I hear Bamboleo I have to walk out of the room. Reggae Christmas, a CD sent by my mother’s sister that is exactly as it sounds, is another low point, because people stop coming to the house to visit us. One day it mysteriously disappears.Most of the time, though, the music is good: the Beatles, the Pogues, the Sex Pistols, Debbie Harry, Kirsty MacColl, the Clash, Earth Wind & Fire, the Beach Boys, Prince (especially Prince). We play it loud. We dance in the kitchen. He follows at my heels through all my musical flirtations, scooping up the discarded bubblegum of Aqua and Billie Piper. As I enter my teenage pop-punk phase, my little brother learns to pogo. I grow out of my Green Day hoodie and he starts to wear it. I graduate on to indie, and he embraces Razorlight and the Libertines (he wisely ignores the emo phase in-between). When I think back to my childhood, there is not a single moment where I can remember music not being played. Life is chaotic, there’s no doubt about that: we suffer poverty, tears, tantrums, despairing phone calls to social services and the DWP, and an awful lot of toilet-related disasters. My mother has to go without sleep for more than a decade (even now, years after my brother went into care, I can occasionally discern something in her demeanour of a survivor clutching the wall and catching their breath as they stagger away from some catastrophe). It is difficult for me to find a quiet place to do my homework, so I often do it on the bus. The divorce is horrible, and my brother takes to sleeping in his shoes and coat so he can be ready when my father comes to pick him up. There are accidents, blood, A&E. One time, he drags me down the stairs head-first.I have memories of some of these occurrences, but not all. My mother tells me that every night, my little brother used to turn my bed – mattress, frame, everything, upside down, and that every night I would put it back to how it was without saying anything. This, she says, continued for months with no complaint. I don’t really remember this; it is just another part of the loving jumble that was our home life. Perhaps I should be traumatised. When I leave home, at 18, I cry for 10 days, not with relief, and not because I feel guilty for going, though I do, but because I miss our happy house.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rhiannon’s little brother. Photograph: Rhiannon Lucy CosslettWhile the house is my little brother’s playground, his universe, the outside world is not so suited to him. It is overwhelming, unpredictable. Noises are too loud, so he must cover his ears. Lights are glaring, far too bright. Routines are disrupted, or changed arbitrarily and with no notice. Sometimes he lies down on the floor of the supermarket and screams, while strangers tut at his bad behaviour. We don’t care – we are defiant, unembarrassable. We ask people if they would like a picture; we raise our voices in public. Most people are good; this is something I believe. But many are ignorant. Local children imitate the hooting noises he makes, flap their hands in mockery. I punch a boy on the school bus for calling him a retard. Despite this, most people locally know my brother and are kind to him. We have an incredible team of care workers, babysitters, respite carers, social workers and friends. People take him swimming and climbing, and for long walks. They do favours for us – free plumbing when he blocks the toilet yet again, an afternoon’s care off the books, a computer that turns up on the doorstep. Their collective goodwill convinces me that the world is a compassionate place. As my brother gets bigger, it becomes apparent that some people are afraid of him. I do not blame them for this. On the outside, my brother does not look disabled. He is very big and very good-looking, girls often check him out, until they realise. It must be alarming to see him walking down the street and then start jumping and hooting abruptly as you jump out of your skin. One time, a man grabs him aggressively by the front of his jumper, squaring up for a fight. “Stop, stop!” my mother shouts. “He has special needs!” The man is mortified and near tears. “I’m so sorry,” he says. “I’m so, so sorry.” Some people are, inevitably, dicks. My brother lives in a care home now, and goes to the theatre regularly with one of his flatmates. When I take him out for lunch, his key worker, Steve, tells me how a man becomes irate that my brother is kicking his seat, and says something along the lines of: “You shouldn’t let him out if he can’t behave.” Steve responds by saying: “He’s autistic, and has as much of a right to be here as you do.” Eventually the man, who has kicked up quite a noisy fuss by this point, leaves the auditorium, to a round of applause from the public. As I said, most people are good.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   In the summer of 2005. Photograph: Rhiannon Lucy CosslettLike all of us, my brother has an indoor life and an outdoor life. His indoor life, which was once chaotic and loud and full of love and music, is not sustainable as he becomes older and more anxious, and develops epilepsy. Now he insists on an almost monastic minimalism, which helps prevent him becoming obsessed with sorting through his various objects. This means that living in a non-autistic house, even one inhabited by Scandinavians, would be not just impossible, but a cruelty. His outdoor life is full of activity: walks on the beach and discos and swimming. His care workers are brilliant. When he has a seizure in the pool, one of them, Matt, saves him from drowning. Steve texts us regular updates, arranges FaceTime, and makes sure he has everything he needs. We are grateful to them all for the brilliant job they are doing, while acutely aware that the high quality of care and support he receives could be swept from under him, and us, at any moment. Such is life under this government, for us and many others, some of whom will have been much less lucky in the help that has been provided to them. My brother is in the best place he could possibly be, but I miss him with a pain that pierces me in the gut. Sometimes, when I visit, he says the name of the street we used to live on, and I worry that he thinks one day he will go back there and we – and it – will be waiting for him, and everything will be the same: the scribbles on the walls, the upside-down beds, the music, the watermarks on the ceiling. But someone else lives there now, and has done for several years. We are all finding ways to understand and reconcile the absurdities of our unconventional family life, of which autism has been such a huge part. My brother has his music, and is currently driving his carers to the brink with Eva Cassidy. My mother has written a book about autism and is looking for an agent. My father defends my brother’s care placement doggedly in the face of local authority cuts, and he and his wife and my youngest brother welcome him into their home for delicious Sunday lunches followed by walks along the river. I write.A diagnosis of autism has the potential to ravage and splinter a family, can lead to heartbreak and poverty and chaos and grief, but we are none of us victims. Being a sister to my brother has been and continues to be a privilege. Our childhood together was full of love and I would live through any given day of it again to be in that house, with him, our home. Even the day of the flood, even the house fire, even the Gipsy Kings, even, God forbid, Reggae Christmas. All of it. • I chose not to name my brother or show a recent photo of him in order to protect his identity as a vulnerable adult.