A spate of car collisions and dog attacks have killed as many cassowaries this year as in the whole of 2014, prompting calls for better protection of the species.Queensland government data shows that six cassowaries have died so far in 2015 – four struck by vehicles and two killed by dogs. The same number of birds were killed in 2014.Conservationists have called for urgent action to reduce speed limits in the north of the state, particularly around Mission Beach and Tully, and a review of dog management policies.Russell Constable, a resident of the coastal community of Bramston Beach and member of the Cassowary Coast Alliance, said the recorded deaths did not tell the whole story.“I personally reckon you could double those official figures,” he said. “There are attacks by dogs that go out hunting pigs that are never recorded unless a bushwalker is lucky enough to stumble upon it. And the only reason car deaths are recorded is that they are heavy birds, they get left on roads and people see them.“Cassowaries are a species we’re studying to death. There are enough reports out there that would choke a dinosaur but we’re not acting upon them. If we aren’t using the science to change policies, what’s the good of it?”Cassowaries are Australia’s heaviest flightless bird, with some growing to 2 metres. The animals, known for their distinctive vivid blue necks and pointy heads, are found in the wet tropics and Cape York regions of northern Queensland.Officially, there are 4,381 cassowaries left in the wild, with the species listed nationally as endangered owing to habitat loss and unhappy interactions with humans and their cars and dogs.The president of Mission Beach Cassowaries, Liz Gallie, said there was one spot on the road between Mission Beach and Tully where at least 20 cassowaries had been killed.“I see one mother and her chick cross the same spot in the road all the time, I’m just waiting for them to be hit and killed,” she said. “We could reduce the speed limit there to 60kmh, we could have different colour paint on the road, we could do more to alert people. It wouldn’t take much and I’m just bewildered why they continue to be killed.“The state government has a koala plan that impacts all planning laws but no cassowary plan. We are allowing one of the best assets to our tourism economy to be destroyed.” Andrew Picone, northern Queensland campaigner at the Australian Conservation Foundation, said: “We need stronger environment laws, curbs on development in cassowary habitat, and greater protection afforded under all three levels of government. Taking action on speed limits and signage is not hard.”A spokeswoman for Queensland’s Department of Environment and Heritage Protection said a cassowary recovery team was working on feeding programs, improved road design and some wild dog and feral pig control programs.The team had recommended reduced speed limits in known hotspots, she said.“The department is committed to coordinated action to address threats to the species as a whole.”Motorists are advised to slow down in cassowary habitat, especially in areas where vegetation grows close to the roadside.Injured, orphaned or dead cassowaries should be reported to RSPCA Queensland on 1300 ANIMAL (1300 264 625).