Delia has taught me a great deal: some relating to the kitchen, and some relating to my inner self. As far as the kitchen is concerned, it is thanks to Delia that I no longer buy bread or guacamole, and that I use a whisk when I make mashed potatoes.But it is also thanks to Delia that I know I am incredibly lazy. Even reading the first line of this recipe for pad Thai – “the way to tackle this is by having all of the ingredients on the list prepared and assembled in front of you” – made me feel tired.Full disclosure: I came to this recipe with some preconceived gripes. Our first experiences of cooking affect how we think about a dish later on – for instance, I tend to think that everything I learned to cook as a teenager is easy, while everything I learned to make as an adult is difficult. I suspect this is because when I made my first risotto I knew that if it went badly, someone else would cook me something. Any current ventures into unexplored culinary territory that end in failure also end in extra washing up and a late-night dinner of pesto and pasta.As far as wok-based recipes are concerned, for me, my first experiences of wok-based cooking were at a point in my life when I was so broke that I could really only afford to throw food out if there was a chance it might move unaided – and even then I tended to give “mouldy green beans safe to eat” a quick Google before bowing to the inevitable.Happily – or unhappily, depending on your commitment to good eating – I worked with a Cantonese bloke who swore by the restorative powers of a wok and a dash of soy sauce, and thanks to his teaching I was able to make the inedible edible – if not always digestible. But it means that I see the word “wok” now and I suspect that I am about to eat something sub-par.Delia’s Christmas cake recipe takes a little bit of practice | The Delia project All of which meant that Delia’s recipe for pad Thai noodles with shrimps, which requires both prior planning and a wok, rubbed against my essential laziness and my now deeply ingrained prejudice that everything I make in a wok tastes flat and tends to be unpleasantly chewy.My second prejudice, it turns out, was completely unfair. Delia’s recipe – which she borrowed having first eaten it at a small café in Ko Samui – is delicious. It is a fair amount of work, though. I tend to group meals into two categories: things I will add to my Monday-to-Friday repertoire, and things I will cook when we have people over. This is category two, and, advantageously, takes less than 10 minutes to cook, even if it took me more than an hour to prepare on the first run-through. But my guess is, once learned by heart, it’ll take around 40 minutes. That means if your guests are late, or early, or coming in groups and are both, it’s an ideal meal to vanish into the kitchen to finish quickly before serving everyone.There’s just one problem: if, like me, you have yet to be blessed by a dishwasher, do not – I cannot emphasise this enough – leave it overnight, as the residue will harden and is thoroughly unpleasant to clean. Wash it while you heat up dessert – though what I made for dessert will have to wait for another time.Stephen Bush’s task is to cook his way through Delia’s Complete How To Cook (BBC Books, £40) in a year. You can watch Delia Smith’s free Online Cookery School videos at deliaonline.com; @deliaonline. Stephen Bush is a writer and columnist for the New Statesman @stephenkb