1 Degas: Little Dancer RediscoveredStatues of the Little Dancer – such as the one in the Tate Modern – were made after the death of the great French artist, based on a wax sculpture he worked and reworked over many years. Now, a bronze cast of the original – as first exhibited at the impressionist exhibition in Paris, 1881 – has resurfaced. This dancer looks more childlike and less elegant than the image everyone knows and it’s all the more moving for that.Stair Sainty Gallery, W1, 27 April to 26 May2 Langlands and BellThe Turner-nominated pair, whose work is a sustained attempt to understand the politics of architecture, turn their critical eyes on the innovative HQs of US tech giants. What does the internet look like? Can social media be visualised as a place? Frank Gehry’s Facebook building is, for example, the largest single room in the world, a vision of a society without walls. Langlands and Bell model these buildings in turn, exposing their owners’ designs on all our futures. Alan Cristea Gallery, SW1, 27 April to 3 June3 Refugees: The Lives of OthersThe artists featured in this exploration of the artistic brilliance of German refugees range those who fled as children – such as Frank Auerbach, who arrived on the Kindertransport – to already established painters branded degenerates by the Nazis, such as the expressionist Ludwig Meidner. Eva Frankfurther, who has a show alongside the wider survey, came as a child and painted strong realist scenes of the postwar East End. Ben Uri Gallery and Museum, NW8, to 18 June4 Constable and McTaggartPerhaps this exhibition is a premonition of stormy weather ahead for the union, juxtaposing two sombre masterpieces of English and Scottish art. John Constable’s Salisbury Cathedral from the Meadows (1831) shows an English landmark shadowed by doom-laden clouds, while William McTaggart’s The Storm (1890) is a bird’s eye vision of a coastline battered by the elements.Scottish National Gallery, Edinburgh, to 25 March 20185 Larry BellThe ethereal art of Larry Bell is a psychedelic physics lesson. Since the late 1950s he has investigated the nature of light and what happens when it hits different materials and surfaces. Like James Turrell, he makes art for a scientific age, but with a mystical purpose. California’s wondrous light is part of his inspiration as is the space of New Mexico. The doors of perception are well and truly opened here. White Cube Bermondsey, SE1, 28 April to 18 June