‘Sometimes, when someone asks how you are, the only answer is: ‘Terrible, thanks for asking,’” says Nora McInerny. She knows. And in a new podcast, Terrible, Thanks for Asking (iTunes, APM), she makes a powerful case for telling casual enquirers how you really feel.The past few years have been tough for McInerny. Actually, that’s an understatement. When her partner Aaron was diagnosed with brain cancer, they got on with the business of living. “Life was really good and normal even though there was this big, scary shadow following us around everywhere,” she says. “Then the shadow caught up with us.” She miscarried their second baby, then lost her dad and Aaron within weeks of each other.We crammed 30 years into four when the love of my life got a brain tumour McInerny’s honesty stops you in your tracks as she prologues the podcast on the second anniversary of her husband’s death. Her son, Ralph, won’t have any memories of his father. She is wading through grief and, when people ask, of course she’s not OK. Instead of small talk, she wants big talk. Crying and telling it like it is, rather than bottling up her feelings – some of which don’t even have names.Even at the funeral, people told her she would meet someone new, but when it happened she found a “stew” inside her of grief and love. “Happiness to me was only acceptable in small increments,” she says. “Falling in love didn’t take my grief away, it scootered over a little bit.” She had dreamed of having another baby some day, but when it happened she didn’t shout about her pregnancy. “I pretended life was going on as usual, but with more heartburn and bigger pants,” she says.The way McInerny talks about grief is refreshing. She will make you cry on your commute. Her words are always clever, often witty and sometimes matter of fact. “Not to totally bum you out, but you’re going to go through something hard in life,” she says. The message is clear: don’t pretend you’re fine, talk about it. Terrible, Thanks for Asking is not all about death: there is divorce, jealousy and more of the uncomfortable stuff to come.“I only cry in 60% of episodes,” says McInerny. If the first few are anything to go by, the listeners’ sob rate might be nearer 100%, but that’s OK.If you like this, try … The Mental Illness Happy Hour.