Bedwyr Williams: Sparks, Indiscreet (1975)Usually rock bands try to show how cool they are, how tough they are, how arch they are. But Sparks are full-on weird. The band was formed by two brothers and their covers are all pretty off the hook – like the one where they’re tied up at the back of a speedboat or getting married to each other on Angst in My Pants. Indiscreet is the best though. There’s been a plane crash and at first I thought that the lead singer’s leg was really badly shattered, but I remember noticing that he’d just faked it. I’ve made work in the past about a minibus accident in which five international artists-in-residence die and I’m the only survivor. I love that sort of imagery: out of the wreckage of a disaster...I was 15 or 16 when I first saw Indiscreet. If I had an afternoon off or I’d bunked off school, I’d go to this record shop in the back of a bookshop in Llandudno, I think it was called Rob’s Records. You used to see all these 70s prog records like Yes, King Crimson and Marillion, stuff that people had got rid of in the late 80s. That was before record shops became a thing, when they were just dusty and nobody was interested in old records.People being into vinyl, it’s the end of the arc isn’t it? It means that we’ve actually lost interest in the music, that we’re just talking about what it’s being played on. The idea of some guy in his mid 40s, with glasses and a beard, his expensive decks and his camper van outside... it’s like a smokescreen for boring men who used to be interesting when they were young. So I haven’t got a record player, I don’t go into record shops anymore, I think the people in them are rude. It’s just bullshit. Things will change and in 200 years people won’t know who Mick Jagger is and that might be a good thing because we’re still caught up in rock stars. And now we’ve got the awfulness of having rock stars’ bloody children as well! I like Spotify, I find I listen to a wider range of things with that and I’ll download stuff recommended by people and word of Twitter. But when I’m running I listen to the Bookworm podcast from KCRW; it’s better than music because if you get, say, Van Halen on shuffle it ups your pace too much, whereas if you’ve got an intellectual talking to you for 30 minutes you’ll keep steadier.Artists are a nightmare with music because they like things that are so niche, it’s like a massive one-upmanship. I’m not very hip so I probably don’t listen to the right things. I still play Aphex Twin in the studio which is what I listened to when I was at college. You pass 35, 36 and realise this quest to be into the most obscure stuff is pointless.I hate that a lot of musicians think that artists are only good for designing covers for their albums. Yes, they’re crazy, with their tight pants and guitars and stuff, but I’d rather be an artist any day. A lot of artists make good music but not many great musicians make good art. Joni Mitchell is the exception. I mean, have you seen Ronnie Wood’s awful paintings?George Shaw : Dexys Midnight Runners, Searching for the Young Soul Rebels (1980)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Antonio Olmos for the ObserverI used to decorate every house I lived in with vinyl records. It seemed a shame to file them upright, so I’d pin them up in plastic sleeves, as works of art. The wall selection varied, but would usually include all the 12-inch records by the Smiths. Their first single, Hand in Glove, has a Jim French photograph on it of a naked man from behind. I bought it as soon as it came out, and only realised it was by an arty photographer years later. There’s an androgyny to it, which along with other Smiths singles spoke to me as a bedroom artist in the early 80s. The figure looks weary. It’s like a Greek sculpture, enclosed and isolated in a square record cover.I still adopt that same melancholy posture in my life now, whether in the studio or waiting at the bus stop. But I’ve sort of outgrown the Smiths’ songs. The covers seem much more sophisticated. Hand in Glove is very formally composed; the line between the picture and the text has classical proportions.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dexys Midnight Runners – Searching for the Young Soul Rebels.Click here to see full-size.Another record I like that used already existing art on the cover is Oil on Canvas by Japan, which features a Frank Auerbach painting. Japan made intellectual references in their lyrics, and their fans were makeup-wearing arty types. For me, the cover was a link between the world of pop, which I was comfortable with, and the world of art, which I wanted to be comfortable with.The record that never comes off my wall is Searching for the Young Soul Rebels by Dexys Midnight Runners [far left]. It’s the most perfect album cover I know. It uses documentary photography, removed from its original context with a green wash. The figure in the picture is how I would have seen myself as a young man, when I bought the record in 1980. He looks bewildered; it’s like everything he owns is in those bags and the weight of the world is on his shoulders. There’s a similar sense of tiredness to it as in the Smiths cover.When I first saw it, I thought the boy had arrived in London from the provinces, escaping his life of drudgery in the north or the Midlands. In fact, it’s a young lad fleeing the Troubles in Belfast. It could be a painting of a saint in the National Gallery, with the instruments of martyrdom under his arm. The text cuts across his head, like a crucifix. And the red, in contrast to the green, starts to look like blood.None of these records have the band on them. They all have actors playing out the role of the music instead. Book covers are disappointing when there’s a portrait of the writer on them – maybe it’s like that. But I do like the cover of Heaven Up Here by Echo and the Bunnymen, where they’re on a beach at sunset – it’s classic Romanticism. It’s like a painting by Caspar David Friedrich. You’re witnessing an experience in the wilderness.My prime time for buying records was my teenage years and early 20s. And that’s about it – I haven’t listened to new music for years. It was quite a solitary hobby. Perhaps that’s why I gravitated towards the cover art and bands or lyrics which celebrate being alone in some way. Every record cover I’ve mentioned, I’ve done drawings of. When I first started making paintings of the housing estate where I come from, I made lots of references to German Romantic painting, like Friedrich. But it doesn’t come from there originally. It came from the cover of a Bunnymen album, or Atmosphere by Joy Division. Or Dexys – something amazing and unforgettable happening in a normal place, in suburban streets.The CD is an unsatisfactory bit of plastic. I like something to hold in your hands, to flick through. I don’t find any enjoyment in downloading music. It doesn’t engage me at all. I’m proud of the records on my wall; it’s a way of managing the world of popular culture, instead of having everything there, all the time.Lynette Yiadom-Boakye: Boogie Down Productions, By All Means Necesary (1988)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Andy Hall for the ObserverI spent a lot of my childhood poring over album covers. Mostly hip-hop. I have two older brothers who were avid collectors of hip-hop vinyl when we were kids in the 80s and 90s and I remember the excitement surrounding an impending release, usually heralded by Tim Westwood on his Saturday night radio show. This was followed by my brother making a dash to some crusty record shop in Soho for a limited import from the US.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Boogie Down Productions – By All Means Necessary.Click here to see full-size.Hip-hop was everything to us, so I didn’t really listen to anything else. I grew up on it. I’ll sound like a grumpy old woman saying this but hip-hop was a powerful conscious force back then, magical in part because most of it was completely out of the mainstream, truly underground. And hip-hop cover art was a big part of it all. In the late 80s the “Parental Advisory” sticker started appearing all over the records we were buying, moral panic somehow becoming part of the cover art.One of my biggest idols was KRS-One, from the group Boogie Down Productions. The album cover I’ve chosen here is the one from their 1988 release By All Means Necessary. It is also, to my mind, one of the greatest albums ever made. The album cover captured my imagination: KRS-One restaged the iconic photograph of an armed Malcolm X peering out of a window. This always spoke to me, not of mindless cartoon violence but of resistance and defiance, rechanneling the power and sentiment of the original image into a new era. The album is a lyrical masterpiece that made me want to write. Its cover is an extension of that.Julie Verhoeven: The Human League, Reproduction (1979)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Sophia Evans for the ObserverI was really into the Human League as a teenager – I thought Dare! was amazing and poppy, so I that’s how I came across Reproduction [top]. I just couldn’t believe how grim the cover was. I was hooked even more from that moment on – I thought, how can they possibly be dancing on babies? This is just so wrong. And I loved it for that. It’s in totally bad taste, which made it even more appealing. I thought, maybe not everyone likes babies and maybe that’s OK – I’m not a huge fan myself. At that age you’re not supposed to admit to not wanting to have children, so I thought that must be a sign. I wasn’t really into the album, but it was a teenage dream of a sleeve: all that angst and so many question marks.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Human League – Reproduction.Click here to see full-size.Another one that stands out is Don’t Stop the World by Deaf School, from my parents’ very minimal collection at home. It just seemed so dark and sinister. I must have been about eight and I was scared stiff of it. But I loved the music; it’s quite cabaret and camp, and totally contradictory to the artwork. So it had that appeal/repulsion thing. I also like the lack of vanity in it, because I hate it when bands put themselves on sleeves – with a few exceptions, Rod Stewart being one. I’d always thought, as an adult, they must have copied The Shining and Jack Nicholson, but actually that film came out three years later, in 1980. So I have no idea about the artwork here.When I did Gasbook [in 2004] I totally ripped off the cover of Can’t Stand the Rezillos by the Rezillos, with torn coloured paper and paint, splodgy things. And I did a record sleeve for Primal Scream with Kate Moss [Some Velvet Morning, 2002]. Bobby Gillespie referenced the Beatles’ Revolver, so I did my rather tragic version of that – again, quite a blatant pastiche.I always listen to music when I work. Now I’m getting a bit older, it’s more BBC 6Music. I really wouldn’t be able to work without it. I like to create a certain momentum, so I like to have a soundtrack, otherwise I’d move at a much more sedate, gentlemanly pace and the work would be affected. My main inspirations are punk, new wave, and camp disco – I alternate between those genres depending on what I’m working on.Juergen Teller: ECM Records      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Bertrand Rindoff Petroff/Getty Images for Sonia RykielIt’s difficult to choose one album cover, there are so many good ones. But as a teenager I got into jazz, and I got really moved by these record covers from a label in Munich called ECM, who had artists like Jan Garbarek or Keith Jarrett. The sleeves all have something in common – a big white border around a seemingly unrelated photograph of a landscape or of something abstract [above left], and written underneath, in small letters, ECM and the artist’s name.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jan Garbarek – Visible World on ECM.Click here to see full-size.It forces the viewer to look really deeply – you can look, like into a tunnel, and study the photograph. It separates it from wherever it’s lying around on, whether it’s on the table or on the shelf or in the shop. And it helps you really focus. A lot of other record covers are full to the edge and are quite psychedelic or messy, while these look super-clean and very serious.That really made a huge impact on me. And also in terms of how I use my own photography, with white borders around things like that: like when I did Marc Jacobs’s advertising, I put that in a white frame on a double page, with a very small logo. It was only many years later that I realised, “My god! It must have been when I was 15, looking at these ECM covers, that inspired me.”A great album cover, like a great poster, has a really good combination of typography and a photograph or illustration and it speaks to you. Very often, when I was 18 or 20, I bought records just because of how they looked, and 95% of the time the music was good when I responded to the record sleeve. The music and the images go totally hand in hand.The ECM covers work so well for jazz because, in a way, it’s abstract. It expresses a feeling; they don’t sing “love to love you, baby” – it’s instrumental. It’s rather like seeing a sunset or a windy tree or the sky. It’s not something specific, but it works on your senses. So they complement each other very well. It leaves the imagination up to the viewer – you can drift into your own memory.Alice Anderson: Pink Floyd, Ummagumma (1969)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest As a child I had poor communication skills and always had difficulties with social relations. I actually interacted much better with objects than people. So when I first saw Antonioni’s film Zabriskie Point with the explosion scene at the end, in which objects (such as furniture, clothes, a TV set) are levitating with Pink Floyd’s music progressively taking over and then Roger Water’s final scream, I suppose that visualised a familiar state of mind for me. After seeing the film I went to Rough Trade and bought Pink Floyd’s Ummagumma album [left], which has a version of Zabriskie Point’s closing track on it.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pink Floyd – Ummagumma.Click here to see full-size.The Ummagumma cover is quite fascinating. It reminds me of Jan Van Eyck’s painting The Arnolfini Portrait, of Giovanni di Nicolao Arnolfini and his wife. In it, a mirror shows the back of the two characters while we see them from the front, but the mirror’s reflection also shows another scene that we can’t otherwise see. That’s exactly what happens in Ummagumma’s cover: one image leads you to another and to a scene that doesn’t appear in the foreground image.Other more recent album covers that have struck me are Jon Hopkins’s Immunity and Courtney Barnett’s Sometimes I Sit and Think, and Sometimes I Just Sit. Courtney sees no separation between the visuals that she designs herself and her music. The need to associate things and thoughts with images is part of everybody’s life – music is no exception. It’s not by chance that the first place where people often listen to music is on YouTube.Music is so powerful to me that I absolutely cannot listen to it and do something like work at the same time. For me, different objects and the materials in my studio already make sounds, make music.