Snapshot: My father with other Kindertransport boysThese boys were photographed in 1939 in the garden of 47 Lytton Grove, Putney, in south London. At the centre of the group with a cheeky grin, side-parting and spotty tie is my father, Hans, and second from left, back row, with penny specs, is his elder brother, Wolfgang.They had recently arrived in London, shortly after Hans’s ninth birthday, part of the Kindertransport – the evacuation of refugee Jewish children from Nazi Europe. The house, which had been rented and staffed by Lord Sainsbury and Lord Rothschild, offered a home to some of those for whom no foster families were available. There, the children would be schooled, taught English, fed English delicacies that took some getting used to (kippers, stews, custard) and cared for by Matron Sabakin with her helpers, Ms Turner and Ms Griffith.Most of the boys would never see their families again. Hans and Wolfgang would learn that, during the night of 12 February 1940, the Jews of Stettin, their home town in Germany, had been woken by the Nazis, transported to Poland and then marched 30km in deep snow to an enclosed ghetto in Lublin. Many would die en route and others soon after: by November 1941, Hans and Wolfgang’s mother, father and baby brother, Raphael, had all died.With the coming of the blitz, the Lytton Grove children were evacuated to Reading, and Hans and Wolfgang eventually became John and Wilf.I later asked an elderly relative, my great-uncle Kurt, what he remembered of John in those years – surely he must have been a desolate child, parentless in a strange country, not speaking the language, bullied as an “enemy” German? He replied with incredulity: John had always had a cheeky sparkle in his eye and everyone always knew he would be OK. This sparkle would later serve John well, when he began a flirtation with Marlene, an Auschwitz survivor, also from northern Germany, on his daily commute from Belsize Park tube station. They would marry, have two children and seven grandchildren.To me, this photograph encapsulates the resilience and optimism of childhood. Now 86 and a little frail, John still retains that sparkle. Perhaps the photo may offer some resonance with the current refugee crisis in terms of the hope and rewards offered by doing the right thing.Danny AltmannPlaylist: Singing in the supermarket at threeThere’s a Kind of Hush by Herman’s Hermits“So listen very carefully / Closer now and you will see what I mean / It isn’t a dream”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest My mother has a different version of this story. In her tale, I’m Rosemary’s Baby. A force of nature. The Duracell child who cannot be stopped.We are in a supermarket, and there is something about the aisles of goods, the shiny chrome trolley and the bright lights that sets me off. My song – my show tune – has just reached the top 10. It’s 1967. Herman’s Hermits are looking a bit 60s with their pudding-basin hair, but stand stiffly as they sing, not quite ready to let it all hang out. I wouldn’t know about all that. I’m three.But boy, can I sing. “There’s a kind of hush, all over the world, tonight …” With me in the toddler seat, there was certainly no hush. People there knew my mother. She was young, pretty and single. But definitely not showy.“And I’m feelin’ good, just holding you tight …”Everyone is staring at us. My mother doesn’t know whether to smile, slap me, or run from the shop. Her urge is to give the trolley one good thrust and send me serenading towards the meat counter. Crush the hush.I have no memory of her embarrassment. I don’t quite believe it. For me, this is one of my earliest musical memories. A feeling of pure, unadulterated joy. I am the song, and there’s no stopping me.Ross MarshallWe love to eat: My mother’s Raspberry SplodgeIngredients85g each of butter and flour145g sugar, plus 1 tbsp to sprinkle ½ pint milk2 eggs, separated 340g frozen raspberries, thawed Melt the butter in a saucepan, then blend in the flour and 85g sugar. Gradually stir in the milk, egg yolks and juice from the thawed raspberries, and bring gently to the boil. Place the raspberries in an ovenproof dish, pour the “splodge” over them, and cool until the top is firm. Beat the egg whites with 60g sugar to make meringue, sprinkle with 1 tbsp sugar and bake at a low heat until golden brown. We prefer to eat it warm (with cream), but I think the original recommended eating it cold. The original used tinned raspberries (hence the splodgy colour), but frozen ones look and taste better.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Raspberry Splodge.My mother was a good, plain cook: the only reference book I remember was the cookery book that came with her New World gas cooker in the late 1940s. But by the 1950s, she had progressed to Woman magazine, which plopped on to the doormat every Thursday morning with the Manchester Guardian. From time to time, a recipe was added from this source. Raspberry Splodge was one of these. We were a great family for silly names for things.In 1964, I was newly wed, out in Australia. Among my pleas home to mother – such as, how much material for curtains? – was a request for the Raspberry Splodge recipe. It came written on Basildon Bond notepaper, the slip I have copied it from now. It was always a firm favourite, and my daughter (born 1964) in due course requested a copy.Last Mothering Sunday, I was asked to contribute Raspberry Splodge to a family meal. As we sat round the table relishing the tasty pudding, I realised we included three of my mother’s great-grandchildren. How surprised and heartwarmed she would be.Catherine Pratt We’d love to hear your storiesWe will pay £25 for every Letter to, Playlist, Snapshot or We Love to Eat we publish. Write to Family Life, The Guardian, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU or email family@theguardian.com. Please include your address and phone number.