1 Robert RauschenbergArt and life cannot be divided; they flow together in an unending river of chance and desire. That is the message of Rauschenberg, one of the truly great artists of modern times. This is a chance not just to appreciate a creative career that started with neo-dadaist experiments in 1950s America and embraced everything from astronauts to dancers to JFK, but to rethink your idea of art itself. There is something uniquely liberating about the rollicking way in which Rauschenberg asked, joyously and passionately, what painting is, what sculpture is, and what it has to do with our actual lives in all their mess and clutter.Tate Modern, SE1, Thu to 2 Apr2 Painters’ Painters      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ryan Mosley’s Piano Tuners, 2011. Photograph: © Ryan MosleyThe art they could not kill is back in this exhibition of painters whose hip and subversive take on tradition inspires today’s artistic youth. Well, that’s the blurb. I’m not so sure if the likes of Martin Maloney, Dexter Dalwood and Bjarne Melgaard really ought to be influencing anyone, but the excellent Ryan Mosley and David Salle are also included in a mixed bag of artists: some good, some bad, but all revealing the pulse of now. In other words, the kind of show we need the Saatchi to do.Saatchi Gallery, SW3, Wed to 28 Feb3 Picasso On Paper      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pablo Picasso’s Jumping with the pole, 1957. Photograph: Horst Kolberg/© Succession PicassoLast chance to see a selection of graphic art by the greatest printmaker of the 20th century. Picasso could make bits of an old bike into art, or compete with Rembrandt in the venerable craft of creating fine art prints. His erotic, meta-artistic print cycle The Vollard Suite stands with his Guernica as a masterpiece of the surrealist 1930s. The 70 prints in this exhibition range from that period to later portraits and bullfight scenes, with some of his intoxicating ceramics thrown in.Compton Verney, Warwick, to 11 Dec4 Victor Pasmore      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Victor Pasmore’s Square Motif Green and Lilac, 1948. Photograph: © Estate of Victor Pasmore. All rights reserved, DACS 2016This eminent British painter developed in the 1940s and 50s from an uptight realist into an equally uptight abstractionist. His art gets a close examination here, showing the two sides of his talent: figurative and modernist. As with so much British art of the era, Pasmore deserves respect, but come on: where’s the freedom and genius shown by US artists of the same period?Lakeside Arts Centre: Djanogly Gallery, Nottingham, Sat to 19 Feb5 Game Plan      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   RH Laurie’s Game of the Goose, 1831. Photograph: Victoria and Albert Museum, LondonBoard games dating back to ancient Egypt’s Senet feature in this survey of a stalwart form of play. The origins of draughts and the history of snakes and ladders are entertainingly explored. Is it art? Don’t forget Duchamp was a chess master. Most of all, this is great fun for a Christmassy trip.V&A Museum Of Childhood, E2, Sat to 23 Apr