When I was nine, my birthday treat was riding a horse. I just fell in love. After that, I wasn’t really allowed lessons, because it’s quite expensive, but I dabbled with friends’ horses and finally bought my own when I was 25.Children love the feeling of freedom, being in control of something for the first time in their life. It’s exhilarating, but it can be scary pushing the limits of what you’re used to. For a beginner, that might be the first time you trot. I work with a few young, “green” horses; that’s always a challenge. Sometimes I get scared just jumping: they’re wild animals and you’re always on guard. But life can be a bit mundane, so it’s nice to get excited. Once you get past the fear, you feel a sense of achievement: “I’ve done that. What can I do next?”I ride all the time: I teach riding and opened my own stables in Penzance three years ago; I have 12 horses now. They’re amazing animals and, like a mirror, they reflect back your own feelings. If you’re nervous, they become nervous. They teach you to change your reactions. You begin to pretend, and that’s the start of it. If you calm down a horse, they calm you down.What I love most is riding on the beach when the sun’s going down: the sea breeze, crashing through the waves with the seagulls flying past. You’re very much in the moment, always concentrating on your position and balance. It’s also really hard work and keeps you fit. You never just sit in a saddle; you use your core muscles to balance.Riding a horse is not just about yanking on the reins; it’s a subtle skill. Horses can feel a fly, so if you tense up, they’ll feel it. Even the way you sit can make them respond. It’s a relationship. You begin to work together and get to know each other, and that connection is a lovely feeling.My workout: Charlie Dark, 45, night runner – ‘The best thing? You don’t need equipment’ My weekend workoutFavourite place to ride Marazion beach, west Cornwall. Best snack A snack bar before, and peanut butter on toast after. Time spent riding This time of year is busy. I teach for about three hours a day and ride for three, which I love.Favourite horse Magic is very special, because I got her when I opened the stables. She seems to read my mind.Five ways to get started1 Spend time finding stables that meet your requirements. Most specialise, so think about whether you simply want to have fun or are interested in dressage or showjumping. Word of mouth is a good place to start, but you can also search online.2 Choose an instructor who makes you feel comfortable (some can be quite harsh). Remember: if you’re not happy, you don’t have to stick with them. Better to move elsewhere than quit.3 It helps to get fit beforehand, because you’ll need strength in your arms, legs and core muscles. Swimming is an ideal complement to riding, while yoga improves flexibility.4 Try not to be nervous. I get lots of mothers who bring their children for lessons and ask if they can try, too: they often lack confidence, and taking the first step requires a lot of nerve. But anyone can try it – I’ve taught a 70-year-old beginner.5 If you invest in one thing, make it a pair of decent riding boots. They can help you keep your leg secure in the stirrup and make you feel better balanced and more in tune with the horse.• Do you have a passion for exercise? Send your story to fitness@theguardian.com