Philip Clark’s recent blog, entitled Where have the great composers gone?, raises some interesting questions about the notion of “the great composer” and claims there is a lack of suitable contemporary candidates for that accolade.Where have the great composers gone? As chief executive of Sound and Music, the UK’s leading organisation for new music, and the former artistic director and chief executive of Huddersfield contemporary music festival, I take issue with many points in his article. I know plenty of composers that are great in all kinds of ways. But that’s for another day (I am, however curious to know why, if Thomas Adès’ opera The Tempest isn’t all it’s cracked up to be, it is performed all around the world so frequently!)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Performed around the world … Thomas Adès. Photograph: Boston Globe/Boston Globe via Getty ImagesRather, I want to ask some questions: what does it mean to be a composer creating music in 2016? What kind of artistic responses are valid in these monumentally strange times we live in?Philip Clark describes a linear development of music – a “confident forward march”, in his words. A single chain of greatness linking John Cage, Pierre Boulez, Michael Tippett, Karlheinz Stockhausen and others, with Harrison Birtwistle the baby of the list (and indeed the only one still living).It’s not that I don’t love and admire the music of these composers – and perhaps the nature of the avant-garde is that the music is ahead of its time and thus perhaps not fully recognised in its lifetime. (“Great music always seems to have finished about 40 years ago,” as a friend of mind says.)However, it’s necessary to acknowledge that the world is different from even 10 years ago, let alone the 20th century. We underestimate the disruptive societal impact of digital technology. Most obviously, access to information and our ability to communicate with people across the globe have been revolutionary. But the characteristics of a fully emerged digital age (non-hierarchical, networked, fluid, global) have a much deeper impact on society and therefore culture’s place in it.  We live in a world where we're constantly sharing ideas … We have more fluidity now, access to more perspectivesShiva Feshareki       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Shiva Feshareki performed at the recentDeep Minimalism festival. Photograph: Publicity imageFixed and hierarchical ideas of “greatness” feel off-kilter with the times, even socially divisive in their narrow view of what greatness is and how it manifests itself not only musically, but also culturally and demographically.The brilliant composer Shiva Feshareki agrees. “It’s simply a different time. We live in a world where we are constantly sharing ideas. There is a place now for so many different types of music and also collaborations between different types of people on an international level. Do we really care about who is a “great” composer? Or do we care more about how we have more fluidity now, and that we have access to more perspectives, which means art can positively impact the lives of a wider variety of people?”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Outliers in their time’ … Loré Lixenberg. Photograph: Simon Burt/BBC TwoSoprano Loré Lixenberg also described how the concept of the “great composer” has evolved. “I was curious to know who the next Boulez is. Very likely not one individual but a community,” she said. “Also, look at the influence now of people like Henry Cowell – vilified for his sexuality – Varèse, Nancarrow … composers who were all outliers in their time. The internet has changed so much. We are so connected.”This is not the same as denying that some music is of higher quality and power than others. Some composers do have the magic combination of ideas, skill, dedication and opportunity to make work that stands out. I am not a relativist. But the artistic response to a world in which there is so much confusion, division and threat to people on a global scale, and where we can see that unfolding in real time – and with a sense that this will be how it is for the next century – is very different from the heroic task of rebuilding Europe after the war and the broad cultural certainties that made that possible. What form music and its creators take is proliferating, diversifying and morphing in a beautiful way that cannot be categorised by an “ism”. I do not recognise the existential crisis that Philip Clark describes. Music that opens up our hearts and minds, that haunts us and leaves us with questions, seems to be the kind of greatness we need nowadays rather than the Charismatic and Heroic Great Men. And luckily, we are blessed – particularly so in the UK – with an abundance of wonderful music and composers to discover. For starters, you could do worse than have a listen to some of Gillian Moore’s recent recommendations.I’m not sure that affirmative, confident, individualistic monuments, be they musical or, let’s say, a new concert hall, speak to me about these complicated, uncertain times. Give me Jürg Frey’s fragile and vulnerable music any day.