23andMe offers a saliva test to create a DNA profile covering health, traits and ancestry. Have you taken the test yourself?My family and I were some of the first people to be genotyped. It revealed I was a carrier for Bloom’s syndrome and my husband [Google co-founder Sergey Brin, from whom she is now divorced] was high risk for Parkinson’s disease. It was useful to know because we were planning children. I tested my son as soon as he was born and I tested my daughter’s amniotic fluid [while she was in the womb].In October 2015 you relaunched your US test after a run-in with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) which put the health part in hiatus for two years. How are you regulated in the UK and are you confident you have got the right approvals? DNA-screening test 23andMe launches in UK after US ban We have an official CE mark to market the test in the UK and in a number of European countries and we are in constant communication with regulators. But I am never as brash and confident as I was five years ago about anything that has to do with regulation. It is a new technology.Did the issue with the FDA damage the company?It was a bump in the road but our intentions were always in the right spot. We are trying to enable low-cost healthcare and prevent rather than treat disease. We have made it affordable and easy to get all this genomic information. That resonates and I think has made it easy to win back trust again.In the UK you have been offering a service that includes health screens since December 2014 [the home testing kit can be ordered online for £125 or bought from Superdrug]. What health conditions do you test for in the UK?We report on carrier status for 43 inherited conditions, things like cystic fibrosis where if you and your partner are both carriers you could have a child that has the disease. We also report on 11 disease risks, things like Parkinson’s or heart disease. Then we report on how you are going to respond to 12 different medications. Warfarin, for example, is a commonly used anti-clotting agent that some people metabolise very rapidly and others slowly and knowing could help doctors dose it appropriately.We also provide 41 trait reports covering whether you have a genetic aversion to coriander, to lactose intolerance, to how your body responds to diet and exercise, to how dependent you might become on nicotine. The results come in the form of a website that helps you navigate and understand your genome.Why would people want to do this test and what should they do as a result?Know your genome: what we can all gain from personal genetics | Anne Wojcicki For people who want to be proactive about their health there is a lot of information that we can provide. If you are going to have children I think you have a responsibility to know if you are carrying anything. A lot of people tend to do the testing once they are pregnant. I personally would rather go into the decision of having a child knowing this information because then I feel like I could be a better informed potential parent. If I knew both my partner and I were carriers for cystic fibrosis, then do I want to take on the chance of having a child who has the disease? Or if I do then have a child with it, how can I get them the best treatment possible? Genetic testing in the future is going to be seen as critical as testing your cholesterol. I want to make people realise that they have the ability to be in charge of their own health Lots of these tests, such as for carrier status of inherited conditions, can be done by a doctor. Why do we need 23andMe?The NHS does not have a standardised protocol of exactly who should be tested and for what either before or during pregnancy. A lot of genetic testing hasn’t been integrated into healthcare because it has been expensive. I want to make people realise that they have the ability to be in charge of their own health.Should people test their children?I think in the future that will be seen as standard. One of the first things I looked at for my children was whether they have a lactose intolerance. Because it is so easy to modify your behaviour and yet a lot of people go untested for life.Your website says your reports are intended for information purposes only and do not diagnose disease or illness [not all genetic factors are necessarily covered and lifestyle and environment may also affect a person’s health and traits], but isn’t there a danger that people read too much into their results?People are used to dealing with risk. You are told if you smoke you are at higher risk of lung cancer. And I think people are able to also understand, when they are told they are a carrier for a genetic disease, that is not a risk to them personally but something that they could pass on to children. The results of studies we have done in the US for the FDA showed [23andMe reports] had over a 90% comprehension rate.Is it irresponsible not to offer counselling with your reports?There will be cases where people want to ask questions of their physicians and we do offer access to genetic counselling through a third party [which charges an additional fee].But not all one-to-one physician/patient interactions are necessarily fruitful and the reality is that we can’t afford to give everyone that one-to-one experience anyway. But part of what we are trying to do is take a lot of this information and present it so that anyone can understand it. We are trying to pioneer healthcare in the internet generation – how can we give really high-quality care to everybody in an affordable way.Is it just for fun that you include physical traits like whether you have a genetic aversion to coriander?It is for more than that. Part of the mission of 23andMe is about genetics education. We are teaching you about why and how your genome makes you you. You are not just about death and disease. Trait reports can provide a non-threatening experience that people can relate to. No one is afraid of a coriander aversion.What can you tell people about where they originate?Would you edit your unborn child’s genes so they were successful? We look at what percentage of your DNA comes from populations around the world. When the company was first established we paid to sequence a set of samples from different populations. That data, which we made publicly available, became the reference population that we and other companies ended up using for ancestry. We have over a million genotyped customers now and we ask them where they are from, so we use that as reference data too.You also test what percentage of your DNA comes from Neanderthals …Many people have a small amount of Neanderthal DNA. The average is about 2.5% and the highest about 5%. In your DNA you can see how you are connected back in time.How do you protect people’s privacy?We do everything we can in accordance with current technological and industry standards. We wouldn’t share data about individuals without their explicit consent. That said, a lot of people do want to share their data. We put the control of how you want to share it in your hands.What is stopping me from just submitting a sample of someone else’s saliva and finding out a lot of information about them?It is part of the reason why we require so much saliva. If you do the test you will realise it will take you 10-15 minutes to spit. You would never be able to get that much saliva from someone unintentionally. Can you pick and choose what information you are told? There are a few tests – Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s and breast cancer – which have an additional layer of consent on top of them. But other than that we give you all the information.You recently raised a whole lot more money – $115m, including from long-time backer Google. What are you going to use it for? The capital is being used to improve and market the US product. We have put a lot of work into overhauling it. We have also just brought in a therapeutics group to pursue drug development for the first time. We want to translate all this genetic information into something meaningful for customers.ANNE WOJCICKI CV1973 - Born in California to Esther, a journalism teacher, and Stanley, a physics professor.1992-95 - Studies biology at Yale.1998 - Meets Sergey Brin after he co-founded Google in her sister’s garage.2000 - Returns to California after working for several Wall Street firms.2005 - Has idea for data-driven genetics after meeting scientist Markus Stoffel.2006 - Sets up 23andMe, a personal genetics service, with biologist Linda Avey.2007 - Marries Brin in a secret ceremony in the Bahamas.2013 - The US Food and Drug Authority orders 23andMe to “immediately discontinue marketing” its personal genome service.2015 - Relaunches 23andMe after negotiating with the regulatory authorities.2015 - Divorces Brin, but he remains “close” to 23andMe. Among other investors, Google has invested several million dollars in the company so far.