As I sit here alone on a Sunday night, hairy-legged and bloated, typing the words “hairy-legged and bloated”, it dawns on me that sharing, or oversharing, might be part of the reason why – when it comes to a successful dating career – I am far from an oracle.When I was asked to write a comment piece about dating, I thought it was a joke. Which made sense as I am in the business of cracking them. “Dating as a female comedian,” they clarified – a piece tied to my new comedy show. “Share with our readers what it’s like.”Melbourne comedy festival: top picks from Arj Barker, Hannah Gadsby and Zoë Coombs Marr Honestly, my experience of dating is very similar to many women in 2017. (I should mention, I am talking from my experience as a cis, hetero-normative female, with that terribly boring dynamic of woman desiring man. Ugh, what a cliché!) I enjoy a wonderfully fulfilling single life until the odd weak moment strikes and I find myself sitting on the couch trying to ascertain from a blurry photo on an app if this man is likely to harm me as much as the gasping fish he is holding. Or if he will send me an unsolicited snap of his semi-erect wang. (Never requested, and yet in they flood ...) And in the dark, quiet moments, wondering: will I be enough?It seems, at times, I might be too much.We often hear that desirable characteristics in a woman are “mysteriousness” or “a girl-next-door quality” – but when your job compels you to regularly mime the very true story of that time a young man jizzed out of your third storey apartment window, it becomes quite evident you are nailing neither attribute. (Unless you actually live next door to me, in which case I am very much the girl next door. And I am also very sorry.) Scientists have done dozens of very expensive studies in order to conclude that honesty is the quality most desired in a partner. In my experience, however, it seems what we mean when we say “honesty” is, “please tell me you’re unhappy in this relationship before it gets to the point where you engage in heavy petting with Jamie from work and my feelings get hurt”. Not, like I am in the habit of doing, making the unfiltered yet honest observation that one’s partner looks like a hysterical Meryl Streep in Sophie’s Choice during one of his tantrums. Searingly honest, bitingly funny: the female millennials changing comedy I have never had a healthy filter. I have always felt there is great humour and groundedness in the balls-out honest truth. When that kind of arresting candour becomes your job, well, you’ve painted yourself into a bit of a corner when it comes to playing the damsel for love. To my knowledge, Cinderella never shared her “jizz out the window story” on a stage in the back room of a pub. The choice to go into comedy definitely coincided with the swift southward descent of any romantic life I had previously enjoyed. Maybe it was the late nights, or the aforementioned oversharing, but most likely it’s the power in the potential of presenting a prospective partner’s shortcomings to great mirth from a room full of strangers if the mood strikes me. Although I would never shame a partner on stage. That’s a promise, I am classier than that. (Hear that fellas? She’s the full package!)No one tends to approach the funny woman at the end of the gig. The guys might have wonderfully confident women draped upon them, hoarse from giggling. But for us ladies, it’s a wasteland. This is the only instance where the preface of “female” before “comedian” is a necessary differentiation, because when it comes to post-gig hook-ups, the experiences for male and female comedians are worlds apart. I don’t want to assume men feel threatened by a funny woman, but the traditional dynamic of comedic power in the relationship might be. Let’s not start unpacking those gender politics here though. Yikes!  On the plus side, if a guy turns out to be a jerk, revenge comedy is deeply satisfying What I will say is this: playing small ain’t sexy. So gag it up as much as you like, people, and let the chips fall where they may.I can’t speak for all female comedians, but for this female comedian, dating certainly has had its unique challenges. Touring makes regular intimacy with a partner a very tricky undertaking. Facetime and Skype have transformed the long distance experience, but there is no substitute for sharing a couch with your partner, chewing on an antacid and watching something staggeringly inconsequential on TV before wrapping it up with a fond shag. On the plus side though, if a guy turns out to be a jerk, revenge comedy is deeply satisfying. It’s not as dramatic as a full social media character assassination, but making that jackass the butt of a joke in the dim light of a comedy room, and having strangers roaring with laughter, well … that can be more cathartic than a year of therapy.I've been sent an unsolicited photo of a penis. How do I respond? Dating is ridiculous for anyone. You feel vulnerable, then giddy, then resentful. There’s a constant dull itch as your pubes grow back. It’s a lot of anxiety, unsolicited dick pics (Really. Stop.), and hope. Just clinging to hope, like a cat on the curtains.But, if you ever want to grab a drink … ? • Nikki Britton is Romanticide runs at Melbourne International Comedy festival from 30 March–23 April and at Factory Theatre from 3-7 May