By the time Nils Holgersson turned forty-eight, he already lived very far north, in Jokkmokk, the capital of Swedish Lapland, which could only with the utmost pretension be called a capital city, since it was no more than a small, remote village upon which, as Tacitus wrote, the sun never shone in the winter and never set in the summer. He worked as a custodian at the only local high school, which had three classes for each grade and a dormitory so that students who lived as far as 100, 200 or even 1000 kilometers away would have a place to stay. The school menu was standard for Sweden: mashed potatoes with butter and strips of bacon on Mondays, fried fish and potatoes on Tuesdays, pea soup and pancakes with jelly on Wednesdays, tuna salad on a roll on Thursdays, and noodles with ground beef on Fridays, which was the children’s favorite. He knew all this from his wife, Maria, who was the cook in the school where he worked as the custodian. No children had been born to them. They accepted this as their lot in life and did not ask questions, neither of the doctors nor of their own parents, who were still alive when children remained a possibility. Sometimes Nils would amuse himself with the notion that if he had a son, he would teach him how to hold a hammer, how to drive in screws, and how to chop down trees. Most of the time, however, he did not torture himself with such pointless musings.  He rarely spent time with Maria during work. She would be in the kitchen and he’d be in the schoolyard, which was generally covered in ice, or else he’d be in the classrooms or the bathrooms. They didn’t think it was appropriate to consort as a couple just because they were lucky enough to share a workplace. If by chance they passed each other in the hallway, they would mumble feeble greetings and continue on their way. In the evenings, when they met at their home adjacent to the schoolyard, they did not engage in long conversations: Hi. Hi, do you want to eat? Yes, thanks. Beer? Yes, please. Can you turn up the volume on the television? Thanks. They would doze on and off until midnight, each in an armchair, and then go to sleep in their bed, which was neither particularly big nor particularly small, but in any case no act of love had been committed there in quite some time.  One particular morning Maria burst into the school storeroom which served as Nils’ office and said to him breathlessly, “Did you hear? Princess Victoria is getting married in two months and her wedding procession will pass through all of Stockholm. We have to be there. She’ll be so disappointed if we don’t go. And I want to bring her a present, something that will remind her of that day in the forest, you remember, right?”  “Yes, of course.” Twenty-five years earlier, when they were still a young couple, they went on an excursion to Djursholm on one of the first Sundays in May. A few grand villas stood scattered across the landscape, each separated by vast expanses dotted with lakes, though Nils and Maria did not know if they were indeed small lakes or simply the finger-like fjords of one larger body of water. Just then, from among the trees, a girl ran towards them. In spite of her black curls and her full cheeks—“Oh, how adorable,” Maria said to Nils—she wasn’t all that pretty, and she was dressed as plainly as any girl from Stockholm would be for a Sunday morning outing amidst the first muddy blush of spring. But the girl was crying and when Maria asked her, “Vad hände?” she replied that she was lost and had been wandering in the forest for a long time and couldn’t find her parents.  “Do you know your parents’ names and where you live?” Maria asked.  The girl said sweetly, “Yes, my mother’s name is Silvia and my father’s name is Carl, and we live in Stockholm.”  “And what is your name?” The girl answered, “Victoria.”  “Nils,” said Maria, “this girl has the same name as our Princess and her father has the same name as our King and her mother has the same name as our Queen.”  “Hmm…” said Nils, who was not a big talker. “Very interesting.”  “Come,” said Maria, who was always the more practical of the two. “Do you want some pastry?”  “Yes, please.”  Maria opened her picnic basket and took out a cinnamon roll, and when she handed it to Victoria, she saw that in spite of her mud-spattered clothes and unkempt hair, the girl before her was undoubtedly a princess. She did not eat like other girls; there was something refined and dainty about her.  After a few bites she said, “Thank you. It was delicious, but I am already quite full.”  Maria saw that the girl was still hungry and entreated her to eat more, but in vain. “Come,” said Maria. “Now let’s go find your parents.”  They set off hand-in-hand into the forest. If only we’d have a sweet girl like her in a few years, thought Maria. After they had walked along for a few minutes picking snowbells, a woman came towards them from the woods and Victoria ran to her. “Where did you disappear to?” the woman asked.  “I looked for you but found this lady.” The girl pointed back to Maria. “And she gave me some cake.”  “Hello,” the woman offered.  “Hi,” said Maria.  “Thank you,” the woman said. She took hold of Victoria’s hand, turned, and the two of them disappeared back into the woods. The next day brief notices appeared in all the papers: “Princess Victoria wandered away during a family picnic and became lost, but she was soon returned to her parents safe and sound.” A picture of the not-so-pretty girl in her mud-splattered dress accompanied the item which Maria happened across in Expressen. “Nils, look what I found,” Maria said. “Our Princess!” Although Maria’s name was not mentioned, she nonetheless thought about the story a great deal, and over the years she recounted it again and again to anyone willing to listen. In a warmer land, the story would surely have accumulated a thousand layers with the passage of time, such that a sweet though unattractive girl would have emerged from the forest chased, perhaps, by a wolf or a bear or some other wild animal. Maria would have rescued the princess from them all, and the pastry would have transformed into a house made entirely of sweets—but here, in Sweden, the story failed to swell with time and may have even grown stale: the Princess remained in her worn clothes, the cinnamon roll remained just a pastry, and no beasts of prey emerged from the forest. The Princess wandered off and was returned safely with a cinnamon roll snug in her already round belly.  But in her heart Maria cherished her story the way a person cherishes a precious jewel. She not only recited it to her friends, but also to her family, and especially to the children sent to help out in the cafeteria, until they cruelly began referring to her as “Maria, Princess of Sweden.” When Maria learned of the nickname she laughed to herself, because she knew that she really had met the Princess, and she was certain the encounter remained etched in the Princess’ heart just as it was in hers. So at the announcement of Victoria’s impending marriage, Maria decided that even though she had not visited the capital for more than a decade, she would use some of her savings to reserve tickets for her and Nils on the overnight train to Stockholm and bring the Princess a wedding gift. Not just any wedding gift, but one that would remind her of the day they found her wandering alone in the forest. And what could be better than an elegant wedding cake for the girl who had eaten her cinnamon roll so daintily? Maria began the preparations for their trip: first she ordered the tickets, which cost her a fortune. She wanted them to arrive in Stockholm well rested, so she purchased second-class sleeper car tickets. Well, she said to herself when she paid the 4000 kronor by credit card over the phone, it’s not every day that our Princess gets married. Then she ordered cookbooks from all over the world. Though I don’t know English or French, I’ll consult a dictionary so that I can be sure to make the Princess the nicest cake in the world, she resolved. But after the cookbooks arrived, she concluded that there was no cake more appropriate for the Princess than a Princesstårta, the crown jewel of Swedish confectionary. Indeed, the airy sponge cake, the layers of thick whipped cream, and the green marzipan frosting awakened memories of her own wedding day, which was the happiest day of her life, long before she was exiled to Jokkmokk along with Nils and his muttering. Translated from the Hebrew by Ilana Kurshan*****This is a shortened version of a story by Alit Karp. To find out how it ends, read the full version here. ‪Alit Karp is a literary critic for Israel’s most respected daily newspaper, Haaretz, and frequently authors opinion columns on issues related to minority rights and freedom of speech in Israel.Ilana Kurshan is a writer and translator living in Jerusalem.