The Paris climate talks have opened with a promise to the world: to secure a historic agreement between nations to bring the runaway train of global warming to a halt. The world’s forests play a key role in fulfilling this promise. When we keep forests standing, we have an invaluable asset in our fight against climate change. As writer Sam Knight has already highlighted in the Guardian: “There are three trillion trees on Earth and they are perfectly made to take carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere.” When they fall, we make the task of keeping within an ever-diminishing carbon budget harder. And their value to our environment, economy and society does not end there.The good news is that the private sector – the biggest land user globally – is starting to recognise its role in keeping our forests standing. Prince Charles calls for focus on deforestation ahead of Paris climate talks Marc Bolland, CEO of retail giant Marks & Spencer, announced this month that his company, along with Unilever, would be sourcing agricultural commodities from jurisdictions and countries that take the lead on ending deforestation. This is a welcome addition to the groundswell of commitments already being made by companies to eliminate deforestation. Prince Charles also called on more businesses to act, to ensure that goals to achieve zero-net deforestation become “the norm, rather than the exception”. This year’s findings from CDP’s global forests programme, the largest investor-backed platform for companies to show how they are managing deforestation risks, reveal that seven in 10 businesses have a commitment to address forest loss. This suggests that this new norm may not be far off.When companies are looking under the hood of their business – the supply chain – they’re seeing clear risks and impacts from the production of commodities like timber, soy, beef and palm oil. Brazilian company Marfrig Global Foods for example has cited financial impacts following a 2009 Greenpeace campaign highlighting their role in cattle-linked deforestation in the Amazon. Gap between promises and realityBut with the world still losing millions of hectares of forests each year, the real test is not how many businesses are recognising risks and promising to act, it is how these pledges are being enacted. CDP’s data suggests that supply chain implementation could be a real stumbling block. Take one of the early steps of the procurement process: setting standards. On average over three-quarters of manufacturers and retailers say they have procurement standards for their sourcing of forest-risk commodities. But dig deeper and you’ll see there is often scant detail about what these standards look like. The challenge for companies is to translate commitments into clear requirements for buyers to take into the market place Many policies will for example simply state a preference for a certified commodity, where a choice exists, or encourage certain general types of behaviour, such as “following ethical standards”. This is usually in contrast to companies’ high profile commitments, which frequently offer timetables and specific targets. The challenge for companies is to translate the clear language in their commitments into clear requirements for buyers to take into the market place. Furthermore, only five companies out of the 171 reporting to CDP explicitly mention that they train their procurement teams on what their policies imply for commodity sourcing. This is perhaps why half the companies with commitments to source certified soy are yet to get any into their supply chains. Some companies are however showing that the challenge of supplier engagement doesn’t have to be the undoing of their zero-deforestation dreams.Indonesia’s Asia Pulp & Paper, a key supplier itself to many well-known consumer goods companies, admits to entering uncharted territory when it comes to putting its zero-deforestation policy into practice. Rather than dictate how its suppliers should be following new procurement standards, the company is seeking to involve them in the decision-making process. “They will be responsible for leading the development of an integrated sustainable forestry management plan,” says its director of sustainability, Aida Greenbury. “It’s no longer top-down, it’s bottom up.”The ongoing forest fires in Indonesia underscore the need for engaging every part of the supply chain.“We are a big company with significant resources,” says Greenbury. “but we are only one actor among many in the landscapes in which we operate. We need all actors in those landscapes to pull in the same direction if we are to achieve meaningful change.”