I agree with Owen Jones about hope (A war of the generations is not a solution – hope is, 8 March): something it seems most journalists, the nature of whose trade tends to make them cynical, find hard to deal with. But I have a big problem with his focus on the word that represents the identity he has grown up with: the left. It is such a divisive way of talking about politics, where people are asked to identify with right or left or drift around in a vague “centre”. Far more inviting, inclusive and actually relevant in today’s world is the phrase “the 99% versus the 1%”. This is something Occupy and the Indignados and now Podemos have recognised. Bernie Sanders even claims he coined it. We need to let go of all the dusty old associations attached to the word left – things like communist/Trotskyist/Maoist, loaded with images of a state that forces people to conform to its will, of endless, overpowering bureaucracy, with no space for individual freedom. Which is why people call themselves liberals, but now with use of the prefix neo, this too is confused.This tone of inclusiveness, of listening and cooperating together, is a feminine principle, which women like Ada Colau and Manuela Carmena (new mayors of Barcelona and Madrid respectively) introduced to Podemos leader Pablo Iglesias; and a few men, like Corbyn and Sanders, seem to have grasped by themselves. So come on, Owen, time to let go of some of your baggage, because your sincerity is refreshing, you write well and actually manage to get yourself heard.Mora McIntyreHove• Reading David Hare’s extended howl of anger against the free market ideology that has held sway in Britain over the past 35 years (Why the Tory project is bust, 8 March), I was struck by one sentence in particular: “The first task British politics has to address is correcting the terrible harm we have done ourselves by assuming that nothing can be achieved by collective enterprise.”There is surely no more powerful example of this than the remarkable fact that some of our major public utilities and services are run, not just by foreign-owned companies, but by ones which foreign governments control, for example EDF (France) and Arriva (German state railway). If the Major government had not undertaken a disastrous rail privatisation, which had to be drastically reformed within a few years, but instead supported British Rail to expand profitably overseas as several continental countries have done with their state railways, our fares would not now be the most expensive in Europe. The underlying ideology is indeed fatally flawed.Ron GlatterHemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire• Generation Y is losing out and David Hare reveals why the Tory project is bust, which Polly Toynbee instances by the preferential treatment for pensions (all in the same edition). But apart from one reference to a 48% turnout by the under 35s, no one is insisting on the only way available to change things. Just as coalition ministers prefaced each and every interview with “the mess we inherited from Labour”, so all opposed to this government should be continually directing anyone unregistered to www.gov.uk/register-to-vote.Harold MozleyYork• Could I quibble with David Hare’s conflating of Churchill’s and Macmillan’s ideologies in the post second world war period? Churchill was certainly a toff who would have been content for the country to lapse back socially into its pre-war stupor, but the people around Macmillan were different. In 1944, RA Butler (a grandee) wanted to abolish the public schools outright and regretted being talked out of it by Churchill. Macmillan as housing minister organised the building of record numbers of council houses and later regulated rents in the wake of the scandals brought on by Enoch Powell’s deregulation. Taxation was heavily progressive and all the essential utilities were in state hands. Churchill’s contribution in this period was to promote a strong Atlanticism and to push for summits with the communist world, but at home it was the one-nation wing of the party that persuaded him not to meddle radically with the building blocks put in place by the 1945 Labour government. Can you imagine Labour’s modern-day Blairites proposing such policies?David RedshawGravesend, Kent• I have just retired after 43 years in social care, and 24 years as a senior manager in a large local authority. My observation shared with colleagues during my retirement party was that we have yet to come through this prolonged period of a dominant political ideology followed by successive governments, that pushes public services to be organised and traded like any other commodity. In my experience, acquired over the same period that Hare reflects on, it is the way we construct the relationships with the people and communities that our public services work with and for that makes the difference to what people are willing to do for the common benefit. And today there are still local political leaders in some parts of our country who believe that sound local government remains necessary to do good for local people and local communities.Andrew MilroyChesterfield, Derbyshire• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com