The Queen unveiled a memorial to the many thousands of UK military and civilians who served in Iraq, Afghanistan and the Gulf, but there was disquiet among some for the way the event was organised and the presence of the former prime minister Tony Blair. A full contingent of senior royals and politicians met 2,500 military and civilian guests as the new memorial, on the banks of the Thames, was dedicated at a military drumhead service on Horse Guards Parade in Whitehall, central London.As some criticised the fact that many bereaved had not been invited, there was also bitterness over the presence of Blair, who made the controversial decision to take the UK into the Iraq war.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The defence secretary, Michael Fallon, Theresa May and Air Chief Marshal Sir Stuart Peach at the unveiling ceremony. Photograph: Toby Melville/AFP/Getty ImagesThe £1m memorial bears no names. The two large stone monoliths supporting a bronze medallion, which stands in Victoria Embankment Gardens, commemorates the twin themes of “duty and service” and is a permanent reminder not just of the military but also civilian workers in areas such as aid distribution, education, healthcare, infrastructure and governance.It honours the thousands who served between 1990 and 2015, including the 680 military who lost their lives in the region – a total of 456 in Afghanistan, 179 in Iraq and 47 in the first Gulf war.The service was somewhat overshadowed as some military widows criticised organisers for failing to inform them about the huge event or to offer invites to all the bereaved families. The Ministry of Defence (MoD) has said there was a restriction on numbers and invitations had been handled by various charitable and support organisations.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Former prime minister Tony Blair at the service. Photograph: Justin Tallis/AFP/Getty ImagesHowever, some families called for Theresa May to apologise for the “careless oversight”. She told parliament on Wednesday no one from the “bereaved community” would be turned away, adding that the MoD would make every effort to ensure relatives who wanted to attend were able to do so. Wendy Rayner, 45, whose husband Sgt Peter Rayner was killed in Afghanistan in 2010, said the offer was “too little, too late” while former Democratic Unionist party MLA Brenda Hale, 48, whose husband Capt Mark Hale was killed in Afghanistan in 2009, described the handling of the event as “completely crass”. Victoria Bateman, from Colchester, whose husband L/ Cpl James Bateman was killed in Afghanistan in 2008, who was attending having answered an email from the Army Widows’ Association, described the belated invitation to other bereaved families as “a bit of a slap in the face”.Bitterness over Blair’s attendance emerged at a reception for families after the unveiling. A number of bereaved parents, who had lost sons in Iraq, said the former prime minister should have stayed away and his ticket given to a bereaved family.Among those critical was Gerry Cartwright, from Clapham, south London, whose 21-year-old son L/Cpl James Cartwright, was killed in a tank accident in 2007. “I’ve got issues with Tony Blair and his government. I would like to have seen him,” said Cartwight, 64. Asked what he would have said, he replied: “Goodbye is all I could have said to him. And, ‘Why did you do that?’ It’s just a terrible waste.“Probably they could have got another mum or dad or wife or husband [here today] to take his ticket.” His frustration was echoed by Tracey Hazel, 50, from Northumberland, whose son Cpl Ben Leaning, 24, was killed in an explosion in Iraq in 2007. She said: “I always think anyone’s innocent until proven guilty, but the Chilcot inquiry just proves different. I honestly think somebody else should have had his ticket, like one of the parents.”The prime minister, Duke of Edinburgh, Prince of Wales and the Duchess of Cornwall, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and Prince Harry were joined by former prime ministers Sir John Major and David Cameron, as well as cabinet ministers at the service and reception.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Prince Harry meets guests at the reception. Photograph: Christopher Radcliffe/PAAmong those who chatted to Prince Harry, himself an Afghanistan veteran, was Aidan O’Donnell, 16, who was wearing the medals of his father, Gary, 40, who was killed in Afghanistan. “He was defusing a bomb and it went off,” he said. “I’m extremely proud of what he has done. He loved his job. He died doing what he loved doing.” For Sgt Kailash Gurung, 40, who served with the Ist Battalion Royal Gurkha Rifles in Afghanistan, it was a chance to remember close friends who had lost their lives and others who suffered life-changing injuries. Praising the memorial, he said: “I will bring my family around here and I will tell the story.” The Queen was presented with a posy of flowers by Alfie Lunn, two, though the toddler wriggled and writhed in his mother’s arms and looked reluctant to perform, which bought a brief moment of levity to an otherwise sombre occasion. Both his parents had served, his father, Sgt Mark Lunn, 29, receiving the Military Cross for his actions during a firefight in Basra, and his mother, Cpl Michele Lunn, 26, with the 3 Regiment The Royal Logistic Corps, deployed to Afghanistan in 2011-12.The sculptor Paul Day said his work had met with royal approval – almost. While the Queen seemed enthusiastic, Prince Philip commented that “the lettering wasn’t necessarily clearly visible enough”, he said.Sgt Paul Stafford, 36, of the Royal Tank Regiment, who saw three tours of Iraq and two of Afghanistan, during which three members of his squadron were lost and many more injured, said the power of the memorial was that it honoured all, not only those killed in action.“It’s the civilian organisations, the contractors sent to help, the Naafi staff who served us milkshakes when we came in, which was one of the best things in the world when you have been there a few weeks,” said Stafford, who spent most of his time in Afghanistan away from Camp Bastion HQ, living out in the desert on patrol bases, or empty buildings, to get a foothold on the ground.  Sgt Paul Stafford, who served in Iraq and Afghanistan, said the power of the memorial was that it honoured all involved in the conflicts. Photograph: SuppliedA nurse, a reservist attached to his unit, “saved one of our guys. It’s nice to remember that”, and to honour those killed, or who suffered life-changing injuries “for what they have done, and to know they have not been forgotten”, he said.Tommy Roberts, 48, a Royal Marine commando, who completed two tours of Afghanistan and one of Iraq, and who lost colleagues and friends in both conflicts, said the service of dedication was a time to reflect on those who had made the ultimate sacrifice. “If you focus, you’ve always got that snapshot picture. You can hear their laugh and see their eyes, when it comes to times like this,” he said, of the emotion of the service.Wendy Phillips, 57, a Department for International Development deputy head of office in Afghanistan, who did three tours working with aid workers, said; “Everyone who took part was a cog in a much bigger wheel; everyone had an important role to play and it is right that we’ve marked that down in history. In Afghanistan we knew it was going to be tough and we knew change would be incremental, but we are in it for the long haul and we are starting to see real reform in the country.”