One of the great challenges that faces any new regime at any theatre is how to craft the first couple of years from a standing start. What a new artistic team needs is a full larder of almost-ready development projects it can pick and choose to spark off each other. That’s particularly true if you are trying to nudge a theatre in a new direction, engage with a wider range of artists and appeal to a broader audience.Rufus Norris's National Theatre ushers in new generation of writers Rufus Norris’s announcement of his second season clearly demonstrates the shifts taking place at the National Theatre, with deputy artistic director Ben Power describing the programming of Bryony Kimmings’ musical, A Pacifist’s Guide to the War on Cancer, and Alexander Zeldin’s devised show Love as “totemic projects that seem to look forward to how we might want to work in the future”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ben Power, deputy artistic director at ‘The Shed’ at the National Theatre. Photograph: Graeme Robertson for the GuardianThat very much means looking to the NT Studio, the pressure-free, protected space where risky, high-profile projects such as London Road and War Horse first saw the light of day. It has now been joined with the old literary department to create the new work department, in a move Norris and Power see as the engine room of an evolving NT. In five years’ time Power says the Dorfman and the Lyttelton are likely to have a significantly “different identity”, and one more reflective of a wider theatre culture.That requires what Power describes as “two types of gardening at the same time: planting really deep and at the same time growing stuff quickly. Not quicker than it needs, but being instantly responsive and finding a place in the repertoire as quickly as possible, so that artists and audiences understand what we stand for and what we want to be.”Quite how central this is to Norris’s vision of the NT’s future is clear when Power says: “If you can’t do everything, you have to make choices about where you put your resources. One way we can make growth evolve is via the new work department. Rufus and Lisa [Burger, the NT’s executive director] have been really clear about the need for investment and protection of the new work department. Whatever happens in terms of the NT managing its size and capacity, it’s in the learning and new work departments that the investment is going to go because that’s the kind of growth we want.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alexander Zeldin’s Beyond CaringOne of the things that is surprising is that in its 30-year history so little work from the Studio has made it on to the National’s main stages. The National’s loss has often been the wider theatre culture’s gain with numerous projects starting in the Studio but finding their way to venues across the country. The attachment programme has nurtured the careers of writers, directors and theatre-makers of all kinds and resulted in some brilliant projects. I recall Theresa Heskins, one of regional theatre’s under-sung artistic directors who runs the New Vic in Newcastle under Lyme, telling me that the extraordinary Staffordshire Hoard season would not have come about if it were not for the time she spent dreaming and experimenting on attachment to the NT Studio.While the NT recognises that it has perhaps been short-sighted not to understand that work created in the studio – often at the cutting edge of theatre-making – could find a place on its own stages, it would of course be a pity if that meant emerging artists and companies still hoping to forge links with the studio felt there would no longer be an opportunity to get a foot in the door. Emily McLaughlin says that is not the case, pointing to the fact that if the new work department wants to nurture the future it should see as broad a range of work as possible and engage with a wider circle of artists.“It would be impossible to see everything,” said McLaughlin, “but we have a brilliant and proactive team of people out and about seeing work across the country. We are already very porous and we will be ever more so in meeting artists, seeing work, hearing their ideas and making decisions about whether we can resource them ... what is the most supportive and best thing we can do. The attachment programme will continue to be the main portal for writers, artists and companies to start a relationship with us and have six to eight weeks of being supported.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bryony Kimmings is creating a musical for the National called A Pacifist’s Guide to the War on Cancer Photograph: Linda Nylind for the GuardianBut if the NT is looking to grow more work for its own stages, will that still leave room for artists whose work is never going to fill the Olivier? McLaughlin insists yes, again arguing that it is in the NT’s interests to support the widest range of theatre-makers. “It’s about resourcing the projects and artists who really excite us,” she said. “Yes we do want to bring more of the work from the studio to our own stages but that’s not the central objective. The objective is to create the best and most exciting work, and projects that are fantastic in their own right and may already be going to be produced elsewhere such as Home in Manchester or Northern Stage. We may also develop something and it turns out it’s not right for us and if that’s the case of course we would want to see it find a home elsewhere. We will be delighted to let it go.”That all sounds good and there is the growing indication that the NT is genuinely trying to change its culture, be more transparent and step up to the plate in terms of its relationship with a wider theatre ecology. After all it’s not just a case of what a company like Made in China might learn from an attachment at the NT Studio, but also what Rufus Norris and others might learn from them.