Dry shampoos have been a morning routine game-changer, but DryBath takes hygiene hacks one step further. Claiming to be the world’s first bath-substituting lotion, it is among a number of emerging waterless, or near waterless, household solutions.Launched in 2012 by Headboy Industries, DryBath is a cleansing gel made of antiseptic essential oils, bioflavonoids and natural deodorant Tawas that can be rubbed and left on the skin. It was originally developed for poorer communities facing challenges around limited access to water and lack of basic sanitation. However it is proving most popular with working mums in modern homes.“It’s our biggest market,” says DryBath’s founder Ludwick Marishane. “It took us a while to realise that what customers wanted was a convenience product for when they cannot bathe, or when bathing proves difficult. When we began selling the product into the US and Europe, we were surprised to find that half our customers were mums buying it for their kids.”Ludwick Marishane’s Ted talk on DryBathEach DryBath session typically saves the user 40 litres of water, but Marishane says this isn’t a strong enough selling point. “It’s been one of our biggest learning curves,” he admits. “The consumer psychology is quite difficult – people have an attached ritual to how they clean. We realised that marketing it as a bath substitution product was actually what was killing it.”DryBath is now being pushed as a complete hygiene solution with new features such as biodegradable wipes. It’s a relatively expensive convenience, with the average cost per wash working out around £1.70, but sales are growing steadily. The company’s online store ships out an average of 4,000 orders each month – the US accounts for 60% of sales; the EU makes up 20%. Marishane now plans to launch DryBath into the South African retail market. “We are working with local retailers and consumer goods companies to see if we can enter into a partnership or if they can use the technology under their existing brands.”It’s not just bathing that could go waterless. One gadget soon to enter commercial production is waterless egg cooker Eggxactly. It works using a silicon heating element to encase the egg and a microprocessor to control temperature and cooking time. The kitchen product has been under development for 10 years, first making its debut on the BBC TV show Dragons’ Den in 2006. Inventor James Seddon secured a £75,000 investment offer on the show but it subsequently fell through.“It’s been very difficult,” admits Seddon, who says the main challenge has been the device’s silicon heating element. “Making a heating element that could be heated up to the temperature needed, and that was efficient, has been a real struggle.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eggxactly - the waterless egg cooker Photograph: EggxactlyWith a Maltese manufacturing partner now lined up, Seddon intends to launch this summer, starting with a single egg version which will retail around £30. He says he has already secured a number of pre-orders from customers as well as interest from retailers and distributors.Eggxactly claims to use just 1% of the energy required to cook an egg in a pan with water. “Most people use a pint of water to boil an egg,” Seddon explains. “If you have an egg a day, [Eggxactly] should pay for itself within a year in saved energy bills.”Meanwhile British technology group Xeros is seeking a manufacturing partner to produce a household version of its waterless washing machine in the US. The appliance uses nylon polymer beads instead of water to clean clothes. Steve Jenkins, the company’s chief science officer, estimates a household launch to be three to five years away and expects the appliance will be sold to consumers in a way that is as disruptive as the technology behind it. Xeros is exploring options such as pay-per-wash and bead replacement lease and maintenance schemes.While water reduction gains won’t be as impressive as Xeros’s commercial model due to the higher levels of water efficiency built into traditional domestic machines, Jenkins claims they remain significant. “We can still reduce by 50% on water [some water is still used to remove the beads after washing] … we’ve benchmarked this against a leading US machine. We can also run cold – we’ll get equivalent cleaning at 20C to a US machine that would be routinely hot filled at 50C.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   CEO of Rotherham based Xeros, Mark Nichols in front of washing machines which use tiny plastic beads to help clean clothes more efficiently. Photograph: XerosJenkins accepts there will be perception issues to overcome for what will be a premium-priced product. “The real differentiator is the consumer need that we will meet. If you can put treatment onto beads that will help prevent colour fade, reduce creasing, shrinkage and help with shape retention in garments, it will be a step change in performance.”One of the newest waterless innovations on the scene is Epson’s recycling printer, PaperLab. The machine recycles waste paper into new paper using a dry process (a small amount of water is used to maintain humidity inside the system). Given that it takes between 2-13 litres of water to produce one sheet of A4 paper, the potential for water savings is huge.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   PaperLab could be adapted for the home working market and the company will be focusing on reducing the system’s size. Photograph: EpsonPaperLab is still under development and no pricing details are available yet, but Epson is gearing up for a Japanese launch by the end of this year. Initially the system will be targeted at corporate users but the printer could also tap into the trend for home working. Company spokesperson Alastair Bourne says miniaturisation will be an important focus for the company. 