There have been nine episodes of The Grand Tour now, all sequestered behind Amazon’s paywall. When the show works – as with the two-part Namibia special – its formula runs like clockwork.However, a few things have started to grate, and these should probably be addressed before The Grand Tour starts to sputter and parp like Top Gear did before it. So here, then, is everything that’s currently wrong with The Grand Tour.The scriptedness       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Unless they’re doing something as silly as the Edge of Tomorrow spoof, you can often see the hosts glumly going through the motions. Photograph: Ellis O'Brien/AmazonPeople watched Top Gear because they enjoyed seeing Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May interact with the world. They liked watching what an ill fit these three unkempt berks were, and how badly they reacted to failure. Unfortunately, this prompted Top Gear to start manufacturing its own failure; baking cock-ups and explosions into the premise of each new film at the point of concept. And this has continued over into The Grand Tour. Unless they’re doing something as silly as episode two’s Edge of Tomorrow spoof, you can often see the hosts glumly going through the motions. The lack of spontaneity in the new show is deadening, and the reliance on premeditated catastrophe feels like a sign that Clarkson, Hammond and May have lost confidence in themselves.The provider       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Amazon doesn’t care what Clarkson does … which leaves him twisting in the wind without a superior to needle. Photograph: Ellis O'BrianOnly now is it becoming clear that Clarkson and the BBC belong together. They’re two sides of the same coin. The BBC needs Clarkson to provide a bite that’s absent elsewhere, and Clarkson needs the BBC to rebel against. Just look how weirdly they’re both doing on their own; the BBC’s new Top Gear was a flop, and Clarkson is twisting in the wind without a superior to needle. At the BBC, he gained cachet by being an irritant. But at Amazon, he’s just a tiny cog in a vast corporation that makes money by selling toilet roll to people. Amazon doesn’t care what Clarkson does. And if they don’t, why should we?The outrageThe saddest thing about Richard Hammond’s recent “ice-cream is for gay people” rant isn’t that Hammond thinks ice-cream is effeminate. Nor is it that the segment made it to air. No, it’s that poor Hammond was trying so hard to cause offence. He was really straining to get there, the poor lamb. He was breaking his back to say something that warranted a thinkpiece, and the best he could come up with is “ice-cream is gay”. The only thing sadder than all his effort was the fact that the episode had been online for five days before anyone even noticed he’d said it. The music The Grand Tour relies on the sort of anonymous, cruddy soundalike incidental music you only tend to hear on Food Network shows about regional Canadian hamburger restaurants. For instance, in the Christmas episode, Clarkson compared a car to the Clash. If this was Top Gear, the next shot would almost definitely be the car thundering down the road to London Calling. Instead, The Grand Tour gave us a tinnily drab piece of muzak called Start the Party that sounded like what you’d get if you entered the search term the Clash into a copyright-free music library. It’s a small thing, but it makes the show feel cheap; less like Top Gear and more like those rubbishy DVDs Clarkson used to release, called things like Hot Metal and Powered Up and Dad’s Midlife Crisis.Richard Hammond       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The man must be stopped … Richard Hammond is the show’s Mansplainer In Residence. Photograph: Ellis O'BrianLeaving aside his opinions on frozen desserts, Hammond is consistently the worst thing about The Grand Tour. He now exists purely as the show’s Mansplainer In Residence. Whenever Clarkson or May say something funny, as they sometimes will, you can bet your bottom dollar that Hammond will pipe up with a “No, because…” or a “Yes, but…” that will not only kill any humour, but loot its pockets and spend all its spare change on chips as well. The man must be stopped.Jeremy Clarkson’s braceletsFor the life of me, I don’t know when they started to appear. But now that I’ve noticed them clanging around his wrists, they’re all I can see. Clarkson wears loads of bracelets, all at once, like his arm is a great big gap year curtain rail. It’s a little thing, and it shouldn’t bother me, but after all the trumpeting about the endless global logistics that go into making The Grand Tour, all I can think of when I see Clarkson is him standing at airport security, mumbling apologetically to the people behind him as he tries to wiggle one bracelet after another over his hands. Please, someone buy him a wire-cutter.