   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest "The nuclear industry is a death industry, a cancer industry, a bomb industry. It's wicked." The first words of the documentary film Pandora's Promise are screeched by an emotional anti-nuclear protester and the following 89 minutes is spent dismissing these concerns.As it happens, I think these concerns are overblown too. The harm to human health resulting from nuclear power is tiny compared to other energy sources, principally coal. The cancers caused by leaks from nuclear power stations are small in number compared to the deaths resulting from the air pollution caused by fossil fuel burning. And nuclear weapons are a lot easier to make than nuclear power stations.But for all the globetrotting from Fukushima to Chernobyl to Three Mile Island, the film completely ignores the issue which is actually at the centre of today's nuclear debate: cost.Actually, that's not quite true. There's 30 seconds near the end, in which Michael Shellenberger, from a thinktank called The Breakthrough Institute, says: "It's a big upfront cost but these plants are going to last 60, 80, even 100 years and much of the infrastructure will last much longer than that. It's much more economical than very expensive solar and very expensive wind."I have never heard anyone talk about century-old nuclear plants. Nuclear power costs are, as always, soaring, while renewable costs are falling fast. To analyse the economics of nuclear so flimsily renders the film irrelevant to any serious debate about the future of nuclear power.In the recent coverage of the UK government's agreement with the French state company EDF to subsidise a vast new nuclear power plant in Somerset, the debate was entirely about the economics. Safety and weapon proliferation were non-issues.Want to talk about fourth-generation reactors that might address important safety and waste issues? Want to discuss small modular reactors that might be cheaper to build? Tough luck: this film resolutely sticks to fighting old battles.It castigates, rightly, those ignoring the best medical data on radiation risks in favour of anecdote and intuition but then has a resident of Chernobyl, who returned shortly after the blast, sharing his own anecdote: "None of the people who came back to Chernobyl died of cancer or any other illness." There is a serious debate to be had about whether new nuclear power stations are a vital tool in tackling climate change or a damaging distraction from a truly clean energy future. The debate needs to be about which technology should be used, in which countries, at what cost and at what speed of deployment.This film, with its scant cast of writers and octogenarian engineers, says nothing about any of these issues.