 Newarthill Library is where I hid when things were tough at home. I sat cross-legged on the floor between shelves where nobody else could see me and did my homework or devoured the latest Stephen King novel because I couldn’t take it out with my children’s card. It was the only place where the bullies who called me “poof” wouldn’t follow, the book dust in the air was fatal to them – or maybe it was the librarian staring them down. It’s where I found Narnia and NIMH and A Boy’s Own Story. It’s where I found the words to start to make a different life for myself.It was my sanctuary and inspiration and now it is threatened with closure along with four other local libraries and two mobile libraries. Savings of £1.5m are touted by CultureNL, the hapless quango that is pressing ahead despite a public consultation that has united the community – protests and fundraisers were held, more than 5,000 people signed a petition and writers including Ian Rankin, Armistead Maupin, David Nicholls, Val McDermid, Matt Haig and Caitlin Moran pledged support. The UK has already lost 343 libraries in the past six years. We cannot lose another. Libraries in Hove and Kensal Rise have been saved from closure: it can be done.CultureNL chair Heather McVey claimed the consultation was “extremely useful”. Yet its Kafkaesque report says: “Despite the wide range of submissions received, no alternative income/funding models were submitted.” Since when has it been the job of citizens to find solutions for the government they fund?Projected savings are probably a fiction because the librarians will be redeployed elsewhere and the recently refurbished building will be mothballed, requiring expensive security and maintenance. As for the human cost, Newarthill is already poor – local unemployment is higher than the national average and wages are lower. We forget that not everyone can afford a home computer – a library is also a vital online hub. “I can’t afford books for my son,” one mother told me. “But in the library I get to be a good mum.” Bye, bye Bookbug group.Library use in England fell dramatically over last decade, figures show When we close libraries we shut doors to the future. We are saying to children: “Stay where you are, no further.”Newarthill Library saved my life by helping me imagine a new one. I owe it, and the community still needs it. The story doesn’t end here.  For more information visit Keep Newarthill Library Open Public Group.