Bad news if you were planning a winter vacation to Mars: new research has shown that the 225m km trip to the Red Planet won’t just give you bad jet lag – it’ll probably fry your brain. The study, published in Scientific Reports, has found that the levels of cosmic radiation travellers to Mars would be exposed to could lead to brain damage, anxiety and chronic dementia.This is somewhat unfortunate as the US is currently fixated on getting to Mars in the next two decades. Last year, Nasa released its three-step plan for the Journey to Mars, which anticipated that America would be sending humans to Mars by the 2030s. Barack Obama reiterated this timeline in an op-ed for CNN on Tuesday, explaining that getting to Mars is a cooperative effort between the government and private corporations: “More than 1,000 companies across nearly all 50 states are working on private space initiatives.”Barack Obama revives call to put humans on Mars by the 2030s While the idea of a trip to space or landing on the Mars is all very exciting – though it’s -90F and covered with dust – I can’t help think that perhaps we’d all do better if we kept our feet on the ground. In September, the world passed the symbolic 400ppm carbon threshold; scientists say carbon dioxide levels are unlikely to return below this during our lifetimes. The last time there was this much carbon dioxide in the atmosphere was about 3m years ago when modern humans didn’t exist. We’re living in a new and unpredictable world. Heading to Mars might further fry the planet as well as your brain. Nobody really knows the environmental cost of space travel, but some scientists have raised concerns of a serious black carbon problem. A 2010 study found that black carbon emissions from space travel would cause warming at the poles, which is not good news for the Arctic or Antarctica. Or the world. However, this study is not conclusive, and the industry repeatedly stresses that space travel poses little threat to the environment. Virgin Galactic has even said that a suborbital space trip is more environmentally friendly than a flight from New York to London. The bottom line, though, is that no one really knows how space travel will affect the earth at the moment. But if refrigerators pose an environmental threat, it doesn’t seem to be such a great leap to think that enormous rockets might also.It could be that with all this doom and gloom I’m missing the pros of getting to Mars. It’s one of the more slimming planets; if you weigh 150lb on Earth, you’d be a mere 57lb on Mars. So you’d be skinny, but you’d also have dementia and probably severe red dust allergies.The real point of space travel, however, is Progress! Taking science to the final frontier, expanding our horizons, etc. However, I can’t help but think that all of this is just ego dressed up as starry-eyed romanticism. In his op-ed, Obama writes: “We’ve flown by every planet in the solar system – something no other nation can say.” OK, cool. But people in Flint, Michigan, don’t have clean water to drink. Can we just calm down for a second about super galactic fly-bys and reassess our priorities?It’s not just national ego that’s playing a part in the amazing race to Mars. Billionaire tech founders are competing against each other to get to Mars first, and they’re literally comparing the size of each other’s rockets. Jeff Bezos’s latest rocket is apparently taller than Elon Musk’s. However, Musk’s rocket is reportedly more powerful, “generating 5.1m pounds of thrust”. Meanwhile, Boeing reckons its rocket is best of all. “I’m convinced the first person to step foot on Mars will arrive there riding a Boeing rocket,” Boeing CEO Dennis Muilenburg said recently.Then you’ve got the 1% who aren’t making rockets and simply want to be the first in their group of friends to post an Instagram of themselves relaxing on Mars – #redplanetbeachday – or taking a day trip to space. Justin Bieber, Ashton Kutcher, Leonardo DiCaprio and Katy Perry are just some of the celebrities who have already paid a $250,000 deposit and signed up for a suborbital space trip on Richard Branson’s Virgin Galactic.The world is facing a very real climate crisis, and yet some of the best minds of our generation our focusing their efforts on getting to Mars. When we do eventually get there, who knows what the state of our planet will be? Our efforts to explore the universe may no longer be a giant leap for mankind, but a step back for Earth.