In this new week-long series, Guardian writers gather to commiserate on one of life’s most difficult ordeals: getting a divorceI have many moments that come to mind if I try to pinpoint when, exactly, it was obvious that my marriage was over. There are enough with hindsight that I often think “you idiot, it was so blindingly obvious, how could you miss this stuff?” But at the time, I didn’t see it.Now though, two incidents stick out. Both are only seen from my perspective and you can bet that my ex would have many of his own, but they’re worth describing if only to show how mundane, how ordinary a breakup can be. There doesn’t need to be dramatic infidelity, or plate-smashing arguments. Sometimes, a handful of tiny sad moments are enough to indicate that a relationship is fragmenting.The moment my marriage was over: 'I had no idea I was living with a drug dealer' One is just a brief snapshot. We were on holiday and I was sitting in an expensive restaurant across from my husband, crying quietly and saying: “Can you please try and be nicer to me?” I don’t remember his reply, or what had happened at dinner to get us to that place, but I now look back and feel stunned that I got to a point in my life where I felt I had to ask my partner to be nice to me. By that point in our relationship, I felt worn down from constantly having to anticipate his changing moods. I would try to buoy us up with irritating cheeriness, and when this inevitably failed, I would become despondent and anxious. Asking my husband to be nicer to me must’ve been some pathetic attempt to plaster over a much bigger crack than I could bear to see at that moment. “Just be nicer and we’ll be OK. That’s all it takes.”The second memory I have took place a couple of weeks before my husband left. I met him, his sister and a few friends for dinner. I got to the restaurant later than everyone else and as I greeted them both, they burst out laughing. It transpired they both thought my hair looked ridiculous and they’d been making comments about it as I walked through the restaurant. Perhaps that could have been taken as merely a brief moment of ridicule, or perhaps my hair did look silly. But I saw in that moment a complete lack of kindness. He wasn’t on my team. Without realizing it, he’d already vacated our partnership and in doing so, was able to laugh at me with somebody else. It felt very cold all of a sudden, and I knew that something had changed without my knowledge. It was a moment that seemed to shift my place in the world.Heartbreak specialists: how Mississippi bluesmen got me through my divorce When we went home that night, I slept facing away from him. I felt hurt and embarrassed and yet I still questioned whether I was making too much of it.When he finally did walk out, I was once again struck with disbelief. But for months afterward, these tiny moments would flash into my mind, my brain trying to make sense of it. I was digging up the earth to try and find the roots of our downfall, and these are the memories I came back to. The moments when something in me knew that my husband didn’t love me, not any more. Before my own breakup, I never much believed people who said that their relationship disintegrated out of the blue. At best, they would insist that they’d been completely happy, at worst that they were “working through their issues together”. I always hazarded that with time, memories of bad moments would come back and they’d nod and think: ah, there it was. The beginning of the end.These days, I’m much more empathetic towards people who cannot imagine why their partner has walked out. At some point, when the shock has worn off, they’ll remember things that they denied at the time, or failed to fix. That can be even more painful than claiming total surprise. You had agency in this collapse, after all. You did things that helped usher it in, yet you didn’t recognize them in time.