One of more unusual records smashed at the Rio Olympics must be the one for most public marriage proposal ever. One that occurs during the televised awards ceremony of a global sporting tournament will be very hard to beat in terms of audience.However, not everyone thinks this was appropriate. Many have objected to the gesture, saying it was an attempt by Qin Kai (the proposer) to steal his girlfriend He Zi’s thunder, or that she was under too much pressure to give an honest answer at that point, and so on. In this instance, we just don’t know. Brief footage of someone in an intensely public situation is not enough to allow accurate assessments of their thinking or mental state. Maybe He Zi loves the idea of big public proposals? Maybe she’s no issue with huge audiences, what with being an Olympic athlete? Maybe her boyfriend of 6 years knows what she likes better than an audience of remote strangers, most of whom didn’t know she existed the day before? For this couple, we can’t say. But that’s never stopped people getting angry on the internet before.Proposing in public seems to be increasingly common, incorporating increasingly elaborate and grandiose fashions, involving many people, as participants and observers. It’s uncertain if this is new or something we’re only now noticing thanks to our online society, meaning things can go “viral” more often.(This is all based on Western culture, of course. Other cultures and religions, like Hinduism, have a whole different approach).You can see how this could happen. Despite ever-changing attitudes to relationships and marriage, and some exceptions, most still feel that it’s the man who has to propose (if you leave same-sex marriage out of it as it’s a recent development). Old fashioned and sexist it may be, but there it is. If you like it then you should have put a ring on it, as Beyoncé famously said.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   If your marriage proposal doesn’t include at least one flashmob, you will be divorced within four years. Photograph: Imaginechina/REX/ShutterstockIt’s common enough in nature for the males to have to woo females in elaborate ways. Peacocks have their elaborate tails, deer engage in antler-to-antler combat, so maybe extravagant, expensive proposals are a manifestation of this in humans? Of course, human males are thinking, rational creatures (with the possible exception of those who comment on feminism online), so aren’t purely at the mercy of evolved subconscious tendencies. But, there are also rational reasons for a showy proposal. A sign of dedication. Risking public rejection shows how committed you are to your partner. It will make the moment far more memorable. It’s more “romantic”. It’s a celebration of love. And so on.So what’s the harm with big public proposals? Sadly, there are far more cynical ways to view it. Humans have long been monogamous (for possibly less-than-romantic reasons) and got married, so a lot of cultural inertia has built up around the process. Many aspects of marriage and weddings are now regarded as status symbols. The size of the engagement ring, the wedding, the dress, there are many ways to use your marriage to emphasise your social superiority over others. Big showy proposals can become just another way of flaunting your status. But a showy proposal is one thing. A showy public proposal is something else. Doing it in front of friends or family is one thing, no relationship occurs in a vacuum. But in front of numerous strangers? This potentially adds a far more sinister element. People care about their image, about how other people see them, down to the neurological level. We all want to be seen by others as good and decent no matter what the truth, hence racists always say “I’m not racist but…” before being racist. This is why the majority of people fear embarrassing themselves or failing in some way when in a public situation (social anxieties are incredibly common).The desire to avoid the negative judgement of others is an incredibly powerful motivator for humans. Peer pressure, mob mentality and countless other things show how people often go against their own beliefs and instincts purely to avoid standing out and not being accepted.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Does featuring in the Guardian image archives count as a “public” relationship? Photograph: imageBROKER/REX ShutterstockOne really good way to earn the ire and dislike of countless people would be to say no to someone’s public offer of marriage after an elaborate and impressive display that clearly took considerable time and effort to arrange and drew considerable attention in the process. The question at the end of this is not just “Will you marry me?”; it could be seen as “Will you refuse to marry me and risk harsh judgement from all these strangers, who know nothing about you apart from the fact that you have a partner who just went to extreme efforts to impress you so obviously cares about you greatly, and will likely be utterly heartbroken and humiliated if you refuse?” This is, by anyone’s definition, a weighted question. And the woman on the receiving end, who typically should be utterly unprepared for the whole thing, has barely any time to make a rational decision without looking heartless in front of many people. People who are actually there in person, not watching remotely from a great distance. It would take serious guts and mental fortitude to stick to your guns and say no if it’s not what you truly want. This is a world where women can be vilified for refusing the sexual advances of a stranger, so actively rejecting someone you’re committed to could be far worse again.Basically, if I were a man who wasn’t certain that my girlfriend would agree to marry me, I’d do it as publicly and loudly as possible, to “stack the deck” in my favour, as it were. It could easily be used as a method of coercion, not just a romantic gesture. Of course it doesn’t mean every man who proposes publicly is thinking like this. They could well be doing exactly the sort of thing their partner would love and appreciate forever. But whatever the intentions of the people involved, it inevitably adds more factors and pressures into what should be a simple yes/no question between two people who know each other intimately. And if you’re not sure your partner would say yes without all the elaborate public extras, maybe you shouldn’t be proposing yet?Dean Burnett’s debut book The Idiot Brain is available now in the UK, USA and Canada. It could conceivably make a good wedding present.