There’s absolutely no doubt that many women with endometriosis are in deep distress. They often suffer chronic, invisible pain, financial hardship due to inability to work and the high cost of medical treatment, relationship breakdown, worries about fertility, grief after miscarriages. Not to mention the debilitating effects of their treatment: frequent surgeries and hormonal therapy.Describing endometriosis is not easy, even for the patient. It inevitably involves discussing personal, sometimes embarrassing, information that most of us don’t want to reveal to our best friends let alone our boss. When they ask why we have to leave work or school early or bail out on a party do we really want to say, “I’ve been bleeding constantly for three weeks and I can hardly stand up.” Or, “I recently had a chunk of my bowel removed and I feel like I’m birthing a cactus”?I won Olympic golds with endometriosis. Anything is possible | Emily Seebohm Surely there’s one place where we can describe our symptoms and get understanding and support and advice about how to cope? A referral would be helpful. A list of support services would be terrific.A study by Kate Young at Monash University asked clinicians (general practitioners and gynaecologists) how they perceived their patients’ experiences and their need for psychological care or support with the social implications of the disease and came up with some surprising and sometimes horrifying results. One gynaecologist remarked, “Do mad people get endo or does endo make you mad? It’s probably a bit of both.” How is it possible for a doctor to so callously attribute his patient’s very real pain and distress to a psychological illness or simply “being difficult” when there is clear physical evidence of disease?After a laparoscopy, which is how a woman is diagnosed with endometriosis, she is usually presented with gruesome photographs from the operation. The photos from my first surgery revealed that my bowel was stuck to my stomach and my liver was stuck to something else. My reproductive organs and everything inside my abdominal cavity was twisted and inflamed. It was no wonder I’d had a dramatically reduced quality of life for a decade.Luckily for me, my surgeon was caring and sensitive. He believed my pain right from the beginning. Unfortunately, this is isn’t the case for many other women.In 2017 endometriosis is still being dismissed by many clinicians as “women’s problems” and women are frequently told, both pre- and post-diagnosis, that “the pain is all in your head”.Frustrated by the lack of information and support for women with endometriosis, my mum and I founded EndoActive, which today reaches upwards of 75,000 people a week. We’ve read thousands of women’s stories that, disturbingly, echo the same phrase, often word for word, “My doctor doesn’t believe my pain,” and, “They told me it’s all in my head.”The suggestion that endometriosis is a form of mental illness or is somehow caused by poor mental health seems to be deeply rooted in the history of the condition, which is in many ways reminiscent of descriptions of “women’s hysteria”.In 1997 Meg Montague and Ros Wood conducted a study for the Endometriosis Association (Victoria) of 266 GPs’ knowledge, attitudes and views on endometriosis. They found that doctors held a wide range of attitudes towards women with endo, ranging from a “negative, women-blaming attitude” to demonstrating “a sympathetic understanding of the wide range of physical, emotional and psychological implications for women” with the disease.One GP observed, “A lot [of patients] I see get fobbed off as whingers and complainers, as psychosomatic and they are not taken seriously. They get labelled as complainers but if anyone sat down and listened to them they would find there was something wrong.”So what’s changed in 20 years?The 2017 Monash study found that some clinicians still believe that endometriosis is caused by poor mental health. While the study uses a small sample size, at EndoActive we know anecdotally that this sentiment reflects commonly held beliefs. The oppression of living in chronic pain, of compromised fertility, of being unable to work and the trauma of not being taken seriously by healthcare professionals – and sometimes even family members – can absolutely interfere with mood and mental health of women with endo. Is that so surprising?But let’s be clear – endometriosis is not caused by poor mental health. The lack of information, understanding and psychosocial care for patients with endo is what drives us to despair. We are not “difficult women”. We are sick and tired of being ignored.Endometriosis took my fertility, and part of my self In 20 years nothing much has changed. A young woman named Charlotte told me, “The doctor told me I was exaggerating and making it up.” Last week I met a girl who told me, with tears streaming down her face, that when she asked her GP to write her a prescription for a medication commonly used to treat endo, he told her, “Endometriosis isn’t real.”While the attitudes of some doctors are unacceptable, most are doing their best. We cannot expect that in a 10-minute consultation they will be able to provide the emotional support and sensitivity that patients require. But surely they could provide the patient with a list of resources and reassure them that their pain is real?The Monash study proves that there’s still a long way to go. So, do mad people get endo or does endo make you mad?As the writer Sophie Heawood said, “The older I get, the more I see how women are described as having gone mad, when what they’ve actually become is knowledgeable and powerful and fucking furious.”• March is Endometriosis Awareness Month. For more information on endometriosis, visit endometriosis.org, EndoActive, Endometriosis Australia, Endometriosis Association (Queensland), the Pelvic Pain Foundation of Australia or your local endometriosis support group.