Marlon Brando and Native-American rightsBefore 1973, sending a proxy to pick up your Oscar was acceptable, but when Marlon Brando deputised a Native American activist, who then rebuffed the award, it led to the practice being outlawed. Presenter Roger Moore was left clutching the best actor prize as Sacheen Littlefeather explained Brando “regretfully cannot accept this very generous award” due to “the treatment of American Indians today by the film industry and on television and in movie reruns”.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Littlefeather was recruited by Brando in response to the Wounded Knee incident, which saw about 200 Oglala Lakota occupy the South Dakota town in protest at their treatment by the government. Her speech was off-the-cuff, after a producer told her she’d be ejected if she tried to read out Brando’s 15-page statement. Littlefeather was met with boos and applause, but her speech continues to highlight the issue, and was even credited by some for persuading federal authorities not to send in the troops at Wounded Knee.Vanessa Redgrave and the Jewish Defense League   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In 1977, Redgrave funded and narrated a documentary, The Palestinian, about the Palestinian Liberation Organisation. The following year, she won the best supporting actress prize for her role as an anti-Nazi activist in Julia. America’s Jewish Defense League, led by Rabbi Meir Kahane, mounted a boycott, even burning effigies of the actor during a picket outside the venue.In her speech, Redgrave praised Oscar voters for having “refused to be intimidated by the threats of a small bunch of Zionist hoodlums”, whose behaviour she called “an insult to the stature of Jews all over the world and to their great and heroic record of struggle against fascism and oppression”. Initially met with hisses and boos, Redgrave left the stage to polite applause after promising to keep fighting “against anti-semitism and fascism” - and putting the boot into Richard Nixon and Joseph McCarthy for good measure.Elia Kazan and the Hollywood blacklist protests   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Elia Kazan’s appearance before the anti-communist House Un-American Activities Committee in 1952, at the height of the McCarthy era and the Hollywood blacklist, had left him a divisive figure. The director’s decision to name former acting colleagues Morris Carnovsky and Art Smith, as well as playwright Clifford Odets, helped destroy the Hollywood careers of all three, and ruined Kazan’s reputation with liberal friends and colleagues. On Oscars night in 1999, a frail 89-year-old Kazan, whose credits included A Streetcar Named Desire and On the Waterfront, was introduced by Martin Scorsese and Robert De Niro and given a standing ovation by Warren Beatty, Kathy Bates, Meryl Streep and Helen Hunt. Yet dozens of other stars, Nick Nolte and Ed Harris among them, remained seated and did not applaud. Outside the theatre, more than 500 protesters gathered to denounce the Academy’s decision to honour him. Hattie McDaniel and the segregated ceremony   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In 1940, Gone With the Wind actor Hattie McDaniel won the best supporting actress award for her role as Mammy. She was also asked to sit at a segregated table at the back of the room. Even that appears to have been progress. Producer David O Selznick had to ask for special permission to allow the woman who was to become the first African American Oscar-winner, to even enter the Ambassador hotel in Los Angeles, a venue with a usually strict “no coloureds” policy.Susan Sarandon, Tim Robbins and Richard Gere get political   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In 1993, Susan Sarandon and Tim Robbins presented the prize for best editing and used the platform to highlight the plight of Haitian HIV victims in Cuba, asking authorities to admit 250 refugees to the US. Oscar producer Gil Cates called their actions “outrageous, distasteful and dishonest” and said the pair would not be invited back. Cates was similarly outraged by Richard Gere calling for the audience to “send love and truth and a kind of sanity right now in Beijing”, urging the Chinese premiere to “take his troops and take the Chinese away from Tibet and allow people to live as free independent people again”. Cates said: “For someone who I invite to present an award to use that time to postulate a personal political belief I think is not only outrageous, it’s distasteful and dishonest.” All three actors are expected at this year’s awards.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 