How long does it take to get over a broken heart? How much time should you give a lost love to change his mind and return to your tender embrace? Oh, and does it make any real difference if you’ve never actually met and he lives thousands of miles away?I ask, because I was reading a news item about David Miliband being in the running for the top job in the United Nations development arm. Nothing odd about that, except I realised that I was poring over the details (very high-profile international position… based in New York) as emotionally and furtively as though I were snooping on an ex’s social media page.“So, what’s ‘David’ doing now? Oh, look, he’s after a new job at the UN, the United Nations development programme. He’s moving on. Which means… he’s not planning a British political comeback! He’s not returning to save the Labour party or the centre ground. Not even a little bit. He’s forgotten about Britain. (Sound of hair-tearing and rending of clothes.) He doesn’t love us any more!”And so on. All I needed to do was chain smoke, crack open a couple of bottles of wine, stick on some moody music, let tears drag the mascara down my swollen cheeks and I’d have been the perfect embodiment of embittered heartbreak. In my mind, “David” would be standing in golden light, a centre-left halo faintly glistening above his beautiful (electable?) hair, immortalised 4evz as “the One Who Got Away”.This is the David Miliband effect on a certain breed of disaffected (in my case, former) Labour supporters. Apologies to Ed for what I’m about to say (no hard feelings, Ed. Except for that three quid membership debacle – plenty of hard feelings about that) but this Return of David phenomenon has been dragging on since that seismic leadership contest, the fraternal struggle of Cain and Abel, as viewed through the prism of a collapsing New Labour and union block-voting. Just as Wallace and Gromit were concerned about the wrong trousers, some of us came away feeling that we’d been lumbered with the wrong Miliband. All these years on, many of our kind still scratch about in the post-Brexit darkness, awaiting the Second Coming of David, a bit like Christians in the catacombs, only with wifi access.The lamenting (media/social media) has been terrible. Does he still want us? Does he still care? Down the years, there have been sightings of a putative Miliband comeback, most of them turning out to be as authentic as a Loch Ness monster hoax perpetuated by naughty schoolkids messing about in the water with a stuffed pair of tights. Actual grownups behaving en masse like the friend who still keeps banging on about their ex – when you both know that the ex has had a few relationships since and your mate urgently needs a reality check.I’m not mocking – I’ve been one of the DM faithful. Maybe, belatedly, it needs to sink in that the ongoing immortalisation of David Miliband may have morphed dangerously into the realms of idealisation. That (heresy!) it’s not absolutely certain that he would have won the general election, although, frankly, it’s improbable that he could have done worse than the Other. However, ultimately, isn’t it healthier to stop looking backwards at what might have been and instead look to the future?What’s the alternative – becoming the bizarre equivalent of a political bunny boiler, jumping dementedly out of the bath chez Miliband in New York? Indeed, with this news, perhaps it’s time to let go. Park the Return of David with other things that are the stuff of child-like fantasy, such as believing in Father Christmas or in Britain getting a great EU deal.To paraphrase the Crowded House song, the centrist David dream is over.A lifetime drinks bill of £50k? Who are we kidding?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Perhaps we’re telling fibs about our drinking habits. Photograph: Bounce/Getty Images/Cultura RFA statistical report called “The Cost of Tomorrow says that the average household will spend almost £50,000 on alcohol over the course of a lifetime. There were other statistics: we will spend, on average, a total of almost £2m during our lifetime (nearly £3m for the wealthiest households) and almost as much on takeaways and snacks as we do on education.Still, that £50k on alcohol is startling. Only that much? Admittedly, I may be speaking from the skewed perspective of a journalist, but still, at first glance, it seemed rather on the low side. Perhaps missing a nought or two? Does there seem to be a strong case for demanding a recount?However, the realisation then dawned. This probably represents a national scaling-up of what happens when a GP asks a patient about the number of alcohol units they consume and they instinctively knock off a few. In the same way, people in this study were asked about how much they spent on alcohol and opted to “round down a bit”. So it’s not that British people are drinking “too little”, rather that some of us can’t help but be barefaced liars about our alcohol intake. Panic over, then.Jeremy Clarkson gets overtaken by events       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Grand Tour: not such a soaraway success Photograph: Matt Alexander/PAAnyone in the mood for some Jeremy Clarkson-themed dad-denim-clad schadenfreude? The Grand Tour, the Amazon show that Clarkson, James May and Richard Hammond started after “l’affaire Clarkson”, pulled in under half the viewers of their old BBC show. The ratings were 2.3 million in December, compared to eight million who tuned in at Top Gear’s peak and 5.8 million who watched their final edition.Obviously, these figures need to be put into context. It was never likely that an Amazon show could rival BBC ratings. Moreover, Amazon reports a rise in subscribers and rate The Grand Tour as its most popular show. Nor did the new-look Top Gear, featuring Chris Evans and Matt LeBlanc, exactly get the engines running.Still, even factoring all this in, The Grand Tour figures aren’t even close to vindicatory and the series has been criticised for going through the motions. Though there was that hilarious moment when Hammond made a gay slur about men eating ice cream. Oh no, sorry, my mistake, it was the opposite of hilarious.Clearly, the Clarkson/May/Hammond dream team isn’t infallible. Indeed, as I suspected back when they joined Amazon, maybe this proves that sometimes dream teams need other dream teams to form a kind of super dream team. In that, the original Top Gear team needed the framework of the BBC and vice versa.Once something like that is broken up, both parties end up scrabbling – the BBC with its less popular version of Top Gear and Clarkson et al with underwhelming ratings. It’s just too bad that Clarkson was unable to control his tummy rumbles that fateful evening. I imagine that all those involved, past and present, with The Great British Bake Off have been watching closely.