There were many reasons why Apocalypse Now fell behind schedule. Filipino dictator Ferdinand Marcos was just one of them. He was happy to loan his helicopters, but then he wanted them back – the better to crush pesky rebellions. But his martial law did at least mean locals were braced for another formidable taskmaster: the film’s director, Francis Ford Coppola. These people were prepped for high-maintenance leaders. “Coppola was God,” the director’s Filipino liaison later said. “Our mantra was, if he asks for a pink elephant, you shout: ‘Coming!’ and figure it out later.”Draft excluder: Napoleon - the greatest movie never made? The dictatorial tendencies of film directors have been a cliche ever since Cecil B DeMille built Babylon on Sunset Boulevard, or Kubrick struggled to make his meisterwerk about Napoleon. But it has often worked the other way, too, with dictators, tyrants and despots of all stripes – such as Team America’s showtune-ready Kim Jong-il – seemingly just waiting for their big Hollywood moment. The relationship between the two parties, and the tango of omnipotence and insecurities that can follow once they’re in bed with each other, is the subject of a new comedy, Lost in Karastan. The film features a washed-up British director asked by the tinpot ruler of a fictional Asian republic to go full epic hagiographic on the local founding father.Ben Hopkins, co-writing with Oscar-winning Ida director Pawel Pawlikowski, says the film is based on their experiences working abroad and hob-nobbing at “white elephant” film festivals hosted by questionable regimes eager to flex cinematic pecs. Pawlikowski also chronicled men with overweening ambitions in his early career: politician Radovan Karadžic and rightwing Russian demagogue Vladimir Zhirinovsky. But the main inspiration was sinister rumours about what happened to Peter Webber, director of Girl with the Pearl Earring, when he headed for Qatar in the mid-noughties to make an emirate-sponsored film about their founding sheikh.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lost in Karastan is a comedy about washed-up British director creating the hagiography of tinpot ruler of a fictional Asian republic. Photograph: PRFrom the Marx brothers and Woody Allen to Sacha Baron Cohen, cinema has got plenty of mileage from lampooning dictators. But perhaps like Chaplin – sensuously in tune with the infantile psychology of the tyrant in his Hitler spoof The Great Dictator (and oddly lenient towards Stalin in real life) – there’s an element of “it takes one to know one”. Creating worlds, setting the terms of the reality within them, putting words in people’s mouths; the job descriptions for director and dictator are similar, except the latter don’t waste time on fiction.Except, of course, when they do. Most totalitarian regimes have understood the propagandist value of cinema. Hitler and Stalin both tightly controlled film production – Inglourious Basterds even mentioned the attempts to create a star-studded rival to Hollywood at German studio UFA.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Charlie Chaplin in The Great Dictator. Photograph: Moviestore/REX/ShutterstockNeither Stalin nor Hitler worked much with outsiders, but it’s even more revealing of personal motives when dictators go to the extra effort of calling in help. Or kidnapping it, as Kim Jong-il did in 1978 when his agents sedated South Korea’s leading director Shin Sang-ok and his ex-wife film star Choi Eun-hee. North Korea’s future leader, a film buff who adored Rambo and Elizabeth Taylor, was looking to bolster his own power by building a film industry. It’s not clear if Shin’s seven films, produced from 1983 onwards after a four-year spell in prison, were what secured Kim the throne. They did inadvertently help with Kim’s other aim – securing international attention for the pariah nation. It’s just that the likes of 1985’s Pulgasari, the notoriously naff Godzilla rip-off, brought the wrong kind of attention. The lengths that the rogue state would go to for validation snowballed into a kind of running joke that eventually produced the likes of Sony’s The Interview.Josip Tito, marshall of the former Yugoslavia and Kim’s fellow cinephile (his personal projectionist reported that he watched more than 8,000 films in 30 years), fared better. He was seeking to distance himself further from the more severe Soviet form of communism, as well as bulk out his country’s sagging foreign-currency reserves, when he began to encourage international productions to come to Belgrade in the early 60s. Since the 40s, the Yugoslavian industry had pumped out “partisan films” glorifying Tito’s struggles against the Nazis. But familiar faces later began appearing among the whiskery Slav regulars: Yul Brynner, Franco Nero and, inevitably, Orson Welles in 1969’s Battle of Neretva, the most expensive Yugoslavian film ever made; then Richard Burton, who was paid $1m to play Tito himself in 1973’s The Battle of Sutjeska.It wasn’t totally comfortable for Burton. “I’m slightly put out by the nervousness with which the servants serve us all,” wrote the actor of his first encounter with Tito. The matinee idol had been hired on the strength of a supposed strong resemblance, a comparison that didn’t actually flatter the buttress-cheeked 1940s Tito. In true thespian style, Burton complained that the role was too small and too passive; Tito agreed and gave him free hand to rework it. A beautiful friendship – and a slightly dreary war epic – was born.The Authoritarians’ Film Fund has been touting for business even more noisily over the past decade. Cash-rich countries keen to flaunt that most swanky of accoutrements – a film industry – are places where directors (and stars) can revitalise flagging careers, bank accounts or, in Gerard Dépardieu’s case, get a new passport. Jean-Jacques Annaud, always attracted to frontiersman’s territory, did a Qatar stint in 2011 with the uneven oil epic Black Gold; more successful is last year’s work for the Chinese authorities, Wolf Totem, a sort of Mongolian Dances with Wolves set during the Cultural Revolution. Texas Chainsaw Massacre director Tobe Hooper also went Gulfside, making the 2013 horror Djinn for Abu Dhabi’s state-backed film body. Following in a long line of musicians and actors who have been drawn to the ultimate example of the cult of personality, Dépardieu and Steven Seagal have revelled recently in their new buddy, Vladimir Putin.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   John Lone and Joan Chen in The Last Emperor. Photograph: Ronald Grant ArchiveHowever, especially for directors, the allure of an authoritarian hookup runs even deeper. As Lost in Karastan understands, it’s a shortcut to leapfrogging the travails of a perennially frustrating profession. With some glassy-eyed autocrat in the producer’s chair guaranteeing access to unlimited resources, they get to unleash all their unrealised Herzogian follies. Tito supposedly sanctioned the dynamiting of a working bridge – the replacement for the one his partisans destroyed in the second world war – for The Battle of Sutjeska. Bernardo Bertolucci had the keys to the Forbidden City, then unfilmed by any westerner, handed to him in 1986 when he made The Last Emperor for a Chinese government keen to re-establish international standing. “I’d pick up the phone and ask for 2,000 Chinese extras to turn up with shaved heads. And they did the next day,” remembers producer Jeremy Thomas.This little taste of absolute power must be directorial catnip. As for keeping company with political undesirables, then there’s perhaps also an element of sympathising with the devil – also in the job description on the artist’s side. Dépardieu, who says he “prefers being Russian” and is now preparing to play Stalin, is taking this to comical lengths. The later career of Natural Born Killers director Oliver Stone, though, has been an exercise in a more credible iconoclasm. His documentaries of Fidel Castro and Hugo Chávez made legitimate explorations of both men’s politics, as well as their antichrist status in the US’s great geopolitical hustle.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gerard Depardieu with close friend Vladimir Putin. Photograph: Mikhail Klimentyev/APBut filming in the orbit of authoritarian regimes with an interest in how they are portrayed is a loaded business; Sergei Eisenstein or any of the Soviet-era directors who couldn’t choose the system under which they worked knew that. Even if he isn’t colluding in propaganda or hagiography, or being wilfully blind to some of these men’s shadier excesses in the vein satirised by Lost in Karastan, Stone’s close identification with his subjects makes him easy prey for those who would accuse him of that. Plans for future work on ousted Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovych and Putin give the unfortunate impression that Stone never met a misunderstood visionary he didn’t like (though he has criticised Mao). He’s still exuding the messianic proclivities that also led him to hitch his directorial wagon, in fiction, to Jim Morrison and Alexander the Great.Perhaps we should be thankful that cinema can be a playpen in which godlike dreams of creation and destruction can be reduced to manageable size. It’s Bertolucci who hit on the deepest kinship between dictator and director. The film-maker, stalking the chambers of the Forbidden City in the 80s, imagining himself in the shoes of his child emperor Pu Yi, saw the powerful as continually compelled to re-enact an “ecstasy of omnipotence”. The director writes: “The child starts running from the amniotic shadow of the hall of supreme harmony toward the yellow silk curtain that will birth him to the world outside, billowing in the wind like a sail which will cast him adrift on a sea of omnipotent fantasies.” Maybe that’s how film-makers feel on the red carpet, too.• Lost in Karastan is released in the UK on 22 January