The German fashion house Hugo Boss will try to cut costs by renegotiating rents, shutting stores and shifting marketing spending back to its core menswear business after quarterly sales and profits fell short of expectations. Its former chief executive Claus-Dietrich Lahrs took the brand known for its sharp men’s suits more upmarket, opened hundreds of stores worldwide and put a bigger focus on womenswear, teaming up with designer Jason Wu in 2013.Lahrs stepped down in February after the share price tumbled following a profit warning triggered by a steep fall in sales in the US and China. Hugo Boss gave no update on the hunt for a new chief executive on Tuesday. Luxury groups including LVMH, Richemont and Burberry have also reported weak first-quarter sales, hit by lower tourist spending and depressed demand in cities such as Hong Kong, prompting them to close stores and renegotiate rents.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Maripol x Hugo Boss 2016. The finance director said the company had overexposed itself in space and marketing to womenswear. Photograph: Hugo Boss Hugo Boss shares, down more than a quarter this year to trade at a discount to most luxury peers, rose 2% during lunchtime trade, compared with a 1% weaker German mid-cap index. Citi analyst Thomas Chauvet said investors were focusing on confirmed guidance for 2016, cost cuts, store closures and the search for a new CEO, rather than on the weak first quarter. The acting chief executive and finance director, Mark Langer,said Hugo Boss would shift its attention back to menswear, which accounted for 90% of sales, but insisted he remained committed to womenswear and the Wu deal. “We have overexposed ourselves in space and marketing to womenswear,” Langer told analysts. He said the more targeted approach to marketing, as well as renegotiating rental agreements and cutting administrative expenses, should enable Hugo Boss to make cost savings of about €50m (£40m) in 2016. Hugo Boss had secured lower rents in some markets and was in negotiations on rent reviews for some larger stores, Langer said, adding that the company was willing to close some stores if it could not agree lower rents. Opening fewer stores as well as postponing the expansion of the group’s headquarters will help it cut investments to €160m to €180m in 2016, from €220m last year. Quarterly net profit fell 49% to €38.5m on sales down 4% to €643m, missing average analyst forecasts. Hugo Boss said it expected sales and earnings to improve in the second half, confirming its outlook for a percentage rise in currency-adjusted sales in the low single-digits, but a low double-digit percentage fall in operating profit.