“Why do I keep doing this to myself?”That is the question Becca asks herself from the backseat of a limousine, as she pulls out of Warsaw, Indiana without a rose at the end of Monday night’s episode of The Bachelor.But it is something we all ask ourselves, and not just at the end of the world’s worst breakup.We wonder why we bother after yet another disappointing first date. Or after a one-night stand that will turn into an obsession, and who should not know better than to avoid that? We cannot imagine how we will endure what is going to be the most boring fourth date with someone we do not like but think we should. We don’t know what we are doing across the table from this – this person: who is this person?We wake up in the morning stunned.We end the day amazed.We cannot believe we bother with – with anything. With whatever it is. With all of it.We are baffled by it all, all the time.Considering the hell that is dating, it is easy to see why you might just settle for marriage. Like that is the answer. You see how you might come to believe that The Bachelor is the solution. Of the umpteen ways to fall in love, why not a reality show?And why not? I am never confused by the main players on The Bachelor. I see what they want. But I am bewildered by the fellow pilgrims they meet along the way. I don’t understand why the friends and families aren’t flabbergasted that this serious thing – marriage – is a stunt on TV. No wise voices ever prevail. In all the seasons I have sat through, none of these people has objected.The producers are, of course, careful. The families are all lovely, and somehow no hometown date has ever taken place in a shotgun shack. They all seem naively to believe they are part of a process leading to a good result. They are just there to help. Weirdly, this gives me faith in Americans: how adaptable these people are. If courtship is to happen on TV, so be it, we are in.This week, for instance, Ben’s mother listens to Emily say she would love to be a Denver Broncos cheerleader and an above-average mother. Mrs Higgins must know that Emily wants to marry her son – but she hardly reacts.She does not say: “You don’t secretly dream of being a supreme court justice?” Or: “It’s my son you want to marry, you have to at least try to break a sweat.”No, nothing like that. Ben’s mother does not act horrified.When she is discussing Emily with Ben, Ben’s mother does not tell him that he can’t marry a dimwit.No, not a word along those lines. Ben’s mother is not judgmental. She just thinks Emily is too young for him.The part that would make for great TV – the part where his mother asks him if he has lost his mind to think marrying Emily would be a good idea – somehow that does not happen.Maybe it’s just that these are the whitest people ever, and they don’t react to much.That must be it.That has to be it.After all, we’re in the Rust Belt.This week’s episode takes place in Warsaw, Indiana, the seat of Kosciusko County, where Ben is from. Warsaw also happens to be the “orthopedic capital of the world”: with $11bn in annual revenue from orthopedic devices, a cluster of companies in Warsaw has more than half of the domestic market share. Who knew?Much of this week’s Bachelor seems to happen on boats, and no wonder – Warsaw is surrounded by four lakes. Ben grew up in a beautiful waterfront home. Yes, this is the ritzy part of Indiana. You can’t be blamed for not knowing there was any such thing. Unless you are doing business with Eli Lilly or are from Indiana, there is no reason to go there or think about it. But Warsaw is so lovely that once upon a time there was even tourism.And now there is Ben’s version. On the first day, Ben goes on a date with Lauren B, a glory-days drive through his resplendent youth: elementary school, high school, the movie theater where he got his first kiss, the youth center where he volunteered, his favorite dive bar.And of course, they talk about their feelings.You know the rest.The next day, he has a date with Jojo in Chicago. They have the baseball diamond in Wrigley Field to themselves. They hit the ball and run the bases and have dinner.And of course, they talk about their feelings.You know the rest.The date Ben has with Becca, Caila and Amanda is not much of a date, but the upshot is that Ben will be visiting Amanda’s family during hometown dates week, which is the next episode. Amanda’s two little girls have never before met anyone she is dating, and she has decided the first person should be a guy who is also seeing three other women, and doing this on prime-time television.If only Daniel Patrick Moynihan were alive for this. This is a whole new version of defining deviancy down.I am certain that Ben is not going to choose Amanda in the end – I feel like it has to be Lauren B or Jojo – but he thinks it’s cool to date someone with kids. Maybe he heard it is. It’s stupid to say Ben has a boundary problem, because anyone who would live out a private part of life on network TV of course does. But it isn’t just that. He is also too young to know better about a lot of things.Why do I keep doing this to myself? That is what Becca wants to know when Ben is done with her. It’s an awful question and an awful feeling. But just because you hate it does not mean you get to put an end to it.You have to answer it. You have to finish with it. You have to be done with it. You are not ready to get married until you are an adult. This whole season of The Bachelor is dumb because it is about people who are already sick and tired of doing something and feeling some way that has only just begun for them. They are still growing up.They are not ready to get married. But here they go.