Let the bells peal out! As regular readers know, nothing brings more joy to Lost in Showbiz’s vodka-pickled heart than a new celebrity to add to its collection, and one has come soaring in this week with the promising alacrity of the flying baby in Ghostbusters II right before it is possessed by the painting of Vigo the Carpathian (a plot that actually makes more sense than the one in the new Ghostbusters movie, but let’s try to stay focused for at least one paragraph).So welcome, James Matthews. Not since the days of Patrick Bateman has LiS been so excited to see how a banker’s story will unfold. For Matthews, you see, is a 40-year-old hedge funder who owns a £17m townhouse in Chelsea with his and hers dressing rooms and a £3m private plane so as to visit his parents at their luxury hotel in St Barts all the more quickly. And people say west London is just filled with rich Russian arseholes these days. Rest assured, Brexiters, the British ones are still there in spades.Matthews has earned his place in the LiS collection – somewhere between Millie Mackintosh and the mother of Louis Tomlinson’s baby, we’re thinking – first by merit of rescuing Pippa Middleton from the hell that is Sloaney singleness with only terror dreams involving Tara Palmer-Tomkinson to get her through the nights. Honestly, we were starting to worry about Pippa, given that she was looking like the Middleton with the least promising prospects, beaten even by her brother, James, who is currently focusing on – and I’m copying this straight off his company’s website – printing photos on marshmallows “to show your love in a meaningful way”.But it’s all OK! In the nick of time just before her 33rd birthday (the age of Jesus when he died – THINK ABOUT IT), Pippa is embracing her long-obvious destiny of living the 80s home counties dream and marrying a rich Chelsea financier. That faint moisture you feel falling from the sky? Oh, those are just the tears of Diana, weeping as she gazes upon the life she should have had.LiS admits to being a wee bit disappointed in Pippa, however. There was a time (specifically, one hour in the afternoon of 29 April 2011, when she briefly stole attention from her sister at her own wedding) when we entertained fantasies about her marrying a minor European royal. Ideally, one on the run from tax authorities, so necessitating a life of no fixed address with permanent residency on a yacht, with Pippa giving frequent interviews to Hello! alongside her new best friends and fellow tax exiles, Tina Green and Phil Collins. Think of that as your Sliding Doors alternative life, Pip.But, as Pippa would doubtless say herself, one should always look on the bright side, because it is more cheering than focusing on the sad side. After all, there is the imminent prospect of Pippa’s guide to engagements: “Getting engaged, which is generally followed by getting married, is a very exciting time. You can celebrate it with a special memento, like a ring. You could also throw a party, with champagne and cake. Serve the champagne in glasses and the cake on plates. Some people like to eat cake with their hands and some with forks, so make sure there are forks available, just in case. It’s lovely to have an ‘al fresco’ (that means ‘outdoors’) party, but that can be tricky if the weather’s bad, such as if it rains.” Get that £400,000 advance ready, Penguin Random House!      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   One is not a regular viewer of Made in Chelsea: Spencer Matthews and Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II. Composite: Rex/compositeWhat really elevates James, however, from being a merely tedious Sloane marrying his female equivalent, is that he is already tangentially connected to the celebrity world. For he is, in a move doubtless foretold by Nostradamus, the older brother of Spencer, one of the breakout stars of Made in Chelsea, and I’m using the term “break out” like how one would use it to describe the escape from an especially dysfunctional psychiatric hospital of an oversexed narcissist. At long last, Britain’s oldest reality TV show, the royal family, is uniting with one of its newest.This is devastating for the tabloids, because exposing “black sheep” relatives of anyone in the near vicinity of the royals is one of the few traditions this country can still unite behind. Given that Spencer has made a career – and I’m using “career” in the loose, Middletonian sense of the word – out of exposing his own foibles on national TV, it seems he has rather got a jump on all of us. A Sun reporter getting a young man to admit he has taken cocaine on a phone camera lacks some of its punch when that same young man published a memoir two years ago saying it himself. Oh pity the fake sheikh, you’re just not made for these times, are you?But I see all this as only a beneficial development for the rest of us. With memories of It’s a Royal Knockout as distant as the Napoleonic wars for the SnapChat generation, I’m feeling certain that, even if the Queen declines to appear on Made in Chelsea’s Christmas special, the producers could get pretty much all of her grandchildren and at least one son and an ex-wife (Andrew and Fergie, obviously).So here’s to the happy couple, both only famous for being the siblings of people who themselves are famous for doing literally nothing! This is Britain today, folks. No wonder we feel the need to isolate ourselves from outsiders. I mean, just the guestlist to Pippa’s Made in Chelsea engagement do will look like we’re begging for own nuking.