January 2014Streetwise Opera’s weekly workshops are open to anybody who is homeless or has experienced homelessness, as well as members of the wider community. They are run like any amateur choir, with professional workshop leaders, small public events and a big show every couple of years. Performers turn up to sing and not to discuss their problems – a revolutionary concept that I have grown to love and respect.It was Matt Peacock, founder and CEO, who asked whether I would like to direct Bach’s St Matthew Passion with Streetwise in collaboration with The Sixteen, one of the world’s greatest early music ensembles. We’ve wanted to work together for a while. In 2009/10, I spent eight months making an observational documentary about homeless people in London. I have also directed opera on film (The Death of Klinghoffer) and on stage (Doctor Atomic and The Pearl Fishers). A former government minister, Sir George Young, famously quipped: “The homeless? Aren’t they the people you step over when you are coming out of the opera?”. While I was directing The Pearl Fishers at the London Coliseum, I knew the homeless people who slept on the steps. People asked me if I found this awkward but it was the opposite. It meant I could stop and have a chat, not step over them.April 2014Manchester has been chosen as the site for The Passion. There are two Streetwise Opera workshop groups that will be involved: a Booth Centre group (some of whom are still sleeping rough) and an Explore Group who have been with Streetwise for some time, and most of whom have accommodation.Matt is worried that at three hours long, the work will be too much of a challenge for the Streetwise performers. He thinks it needs to be closer to one hour and Harry Christophers (founder and conductor of The Sixteen) agrees that it can be cut. I roll up my sleeves and take a machete to it, trying to keep the spine of the story. I have blood on my hands, but at least we have something to work with. Harry and Matt ask me to restore some music and we find some different cuts together. Harry makes little musical bridges where we need them. I then step back and realise I can make more of the narrative work visually, so I replace even more of the most beautiful arias by cutting some more of the recit. I just hope that those who love the St Matthew Passion will still love this abridged version.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Official trailer for the Streetwise Opera performance of the St Matthew PassionAugust 2014Matt flags up a second problem: Streetwise is supposed to be an uplifting and inspirational experience for its performers. He tells me he is worried that The Passion is “too dark”. I can’t argue with that, as Jesus dies a horrible death at the end. But there is nothing we can do about that. Then Matt remembers that James MacMillan, the Scottish composer who specialises in sacred music, has expressed an interest in working with Streetwise. We ask James to compose a resurrection chorus to follow the crucifixion at the end of The Passion – a piece that offers a glimmer of hope. James travels from Glasgow to Manchester to attend a workshop and get a sense of what people can sing.September 2014There is a lengthy search for a location. The St Matthew Passion is an oratorio rather than an opera and it’s normally performed in concert with the singers standing in front of the orchestra. There’s no space to do anything else in a concert hall, and a church would make it feel like a church service, so we search for a different kind of space, trailing around a lot of former industrial buildings which are either dangerously decrepit, too far away or just bewildering, such as the beautiful Victorian baths. Finally we find Upper Campfield Market, near the centre of Manchester, huge with beautiful arched pillars and good acoustics. I know this because I ask Matt to sing “Danny Boy” while I head off to the furthest corner. I can hear every word, but it is absolutely freezing.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Penny Woolcock with Streetwise Opera’s Manchester Explore Group …October 2014I go to Manchester to run a writing workshop with Streetwise Opera’s Explore Group and find words for a libretto for James. I arrive with the idea of asking people to remember a difficult time in their lives and come up with phrases to describe it. Jonathan Ainscough (workshop leader) reminds me that the whole point of Streetwise is not to dwell on people’s personal problems. I have five minutes to think of a different idea.I ask the group to imagine that there has been a terrible earthquake in Manchester and each of them believes they are the only survivor. They split into small groups and as I walk around the room I am stunned by the evocative images flying around. “Giant cranes hang their heads in shame.” Then I invite them to imagine what happens after the darkest hour. There’s a palpable creative buzz in the room. I collect up bits of paper, bring them home and arrange the phrases into two verses that I send to James MacMillan.He is inspired, sets the words to beautiful music and travels down to Manchester again to teach it to the group. I ask the group to imagine there has been a terrible earthquake in Manchester and that each of them is the only survivor February 2015We are well on the way to having an abridged St Matthew Passion with a resurrection chorus, but the music is not easy to learn. I am committed to placing Streetwise at the centre of the piece rather than just singing along the easy bits with The Sixteen. It becomes apparent that Jesus is too big a part for any single Streetwise performer but I believe that Jesus is everyman, everywoman, both in his special qualities and his suffering. We have all experienced being wrongly accused and have been let down by others (and let others down). He’s a radical figure, excoriating the rich and powerful and speaking out against injustice and inequality. It occurs to me that we can split the role between several people. Harry and Matt agree. We end up with eight and I now have to think of a way of making it clear who is playing Jesus at any given time. My first thought is that a shawl or piece of cloth could be passed on by the different performers. For some reason I spend another year contemplating various complicated ways of signifying ‘Jesusness’ before returning to the first, simple idea. Sometimes we can make things unnecessarily hard for ourselves, throwing out good things, suspecting them because they come too easily.May 2015We need a designer. I am working with Dick Bird on The Pearl Fishers at the Metropolitan Opera in New York. We work well together and I am so happy when he agrees and I hope he’ll understand about the tiny budget.September 2015Dick and I spend a day or two together every week for several weeks in his London studio in West Dulwich. I love this bit – it’s dreamy time. We read St Matthew’s gospel aloud and watch Pasolini’s Gospel According to St Matthew which is one of my favourite films. We want to have giant screens for projections. Like Pasolini, we have wonderful faces that tell their own stories.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   … and with evangelist Joshua Ellicott. Photograph Alan KerrJanuary 2016I have just returned from the Met where I’ve been working with three assistants, a prompter, a French coach, two repititeurs, a world-class conductor, prop people on tap, stage hands to move things around, four aerialists, four actors, four stunning singers and at times 80 chorus members and the chorus master. I arrive at the Methodist Central Hall in Manchester for The Passion first rehearsal and it is just me and Jonathan, the workshop leader, playing an electric keyboard. But we have 20 people who can’t wait to perform and I have brought two metres of blue cloth purchased for £5 in Chapel Market and a red mug to stand in for the special ointment jar. Darryl becomes our Jesus 1.Some of the performers have lovely voices, but they are untrained. What they do have is a unique and deep understanding of what The Passion is about and they encounter the material in a completely fresh way. Matt, who is cast as Judas, plays him from the inside out, making Judas his own. “I’m only doing what everyone else wants to do,” he says as Judas. He feels that Jesus is out of control and going against everything he preached. He thinks about Judas all the time and remembers everything I ask him to do.When we get to the last supper scene, Darryl passes the blue cloth to Gavin, who is now Jesus 2. , and I sit Judas next to him. David (playing Barabbas) explodes. ”D’you mean he’s betrayed him, taken money and everything and now he’s sitting right next to him fresh faced!” We all realise how crazy this is and how tormented Judas must be. Both Darryl and Gavin are transformed as soon as the blue cloth is placed around their shoulders. That’s the wonder of stories when you believe them. The other performers generously do this wonderful thing of conferring “Jesusness” on them. I quote Helen Mirren after her winning an Oscar for playing the Queen: “When I walk into a room I’m just a little old lady – it’s everyone else who makes me the Queen.” Almost everyone is struggling with mental and physical frailties, some with addictions – they are still giving their all Rehearsals are always like jumping off a cliff. When I walk in the room I believe I can make this story come to life and so everyone else believes it too. There’s a lot to do, not enough time and an enormous discrepancy between the trained and untrained voices but there’s nowhere else I’d rather be and nothing else I’d rather be doing.March 2016Two weeks of intense rehearsals leading up to the show. So far I have been rehearsing a morning group who will eventually play the High Priests, and in the afternoon I’ve been with Jesus and the Disciples. Finally the two groups meet and it’s exciting to join up the two sides of the story. Harry and a quartet from the Sixteen join us and it’s starting to feel real. Some of the performers are still sleeping rough but they still make it in every day. One of them breaks his toe and never complains. Almost everyone is struggling with both mental and physical frailties and some with addictions, and they are still giving their all. It is immensely moving and I am in awe. Two or three have to take days off and sadly one crashes out despite having looked forward to this for months. Everyone is exhausted.The lighting rigs are in now, there are massive screens and a huge set. Our Streetwise soloists are holding their own with The Sixteen. Matt, playing Judas, is moved to tears when he comes to betray Anita as Jesus 4. She looks at him heartbroken and sings with a lovely clear soprano voice laced with pain: “My friend, why ever have you come here?”. He later says to me, “I’m always the person at the back and now I’m not. I won’t let you down.” I know he won’t.The Passion is on at Campfield Market, Manchester. It will be broadcast on BBC Four on 27 March streetwiseopera.org. The full 70-minute production of The Passion will be available to view on the Guardian website from 28 March.