Yetis! The myth has endured for centuries, but despite its longevity, there are really only two sides of the debate you can sit on. In the boringly scientific camp: those who believe that all sightings come from gassed idiots who don’t know nature when they see it. In the other, fantastical unsolved mysteries camp, are those with more of a swivel-eyed crypto-conspiracy angle. The latter sort of claptrap is typically absent in mainstream science and nature documentaries and, frankly, the genre is poorer for it. But now, Mark Evans combines both sides in beautiful neeky harmony in Yeti: Myth, Man Or Beast? Evans is exactly the man to take these conflicting arguments and forge an almost-serious documentary out of them. He has the sensible air of a substitute teacher well up for some staffroom biscuit banter. He knows big words and says them with authority, yet also has a leather jacket. Like I say, perfect for the job. As far as Evans is concerned, the yeti doesn’t have to be mythical: it could be a polar bear hybrid or a relic of the Denisova hominin, a branch of human long thought to be extinct. Such a theory is at the very forefront of scientific thinking – geneticists only started focusing on Denisovan DNA six years ago. If a 48-minute Channel 4 documentary isn’t the place to explore this exciting new frontier of knowledge, I don’t know what is.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mountaineer and author Reinhold Messner. Photograph: Priyanka Parashar/Mint/Getty ImagesFirst up, Evans meets Reinhold Messner, a mountaineer with a face like a sheepskin rug. On an expedition in the Himalayas, Messner had a strange experience with an unknown biped that propelled him towards the deep crevice that is yeti mythology. After many years of research, he concluded that what he saw could have only been a bear. Honestly, I’m not wild about all this sheeple talk of dull, lowly bears, and looking at Messner, with his shoulders the width of a family car, I hypothesise another option. Messner himself is the yeti we seek. Sadly, no one picks up this particular thread of inquiry, as Messner proceeds to throw them all off the scent.'Each mountain in the Dolomites is like a piece of art': Reinhold Messner on Tyrol highs In a bizarre twist, Messner reveals himself to be the owner of a taxidermied bear. Not just any taxidermied bear, but the remains of a creature Heinrich Himmler sent an expedition of Nazis to find, in the belief yetis were a mighty race of Aryan uber-hominid. At first sight, Himmler’s Nazi yeti isn’t much to get excited about. Stuffed by the expedition leader Ernst Schäfer, it looks like a mangy old fur coat. Mark asks Messner if this is all a joke. Messner assures him that Schäfer wasn’t known for his sense of humour. So they yank out its teeth and send them to a lab for DNA testing. What could these samples be? Bear? Human? Something else entirely? As Evans points out, so-called folk memories of events thousands of years in the past (ancient floods, that sort of thing) have since been proven correct. And if you don’t believe Evans, the show details (with graphics!) how esteemed journal Nature suggested that, given the discovery of the skeletons of tiny, angry branch of human, Homo floresiensis – which also gave credence to local stories about them – we should all be treating this hominid cryptozoology with a lot less skepticism.While we await the results, our Yeti hopes are stomped underfoot by evolutionary biologist Dr Charlotte Lindqvist. She’s been exploring the Yeti Question herself, collecting genetic material from the Himalayas. She charts the areas where her samples were found on a big map with little white stickers. On top of these she puts blue, yellow and red stickers. These denote the DNA of Tibetan, brown and black bears. There’s not a speck of polar bear or Denisovan hominin in sight. It’s a disappointing moment, a sheet of Ryman stickers blotting out any hope of collective wonder. I hope Mark Evans can take his Bambi eyes and hunger for Yeti truth yet further. If so, I’ll go too.This article was amended on 1 June to reflect that the programme is available to view on All4 now