I don’t know about you, ladies, but as I sit here in an office enduring the drudgery of work, I can’t help but long for the not-so-distant past, when only my husband would have had to concern himself with such pressures, and I would have found myself at home in a semi sporting a poodle skirt, hand-washing cack from a pile of cloth nappies while off my chops on barbiturates. Don’t you just long for those rosy days of the 1950s housewife? I know I do.What do you mean, the good old days? According to headlines this week, feminists such as myself are increasingly re-embracing domesticity, having failed to find the fulfilment they thought their careers would offer them. Never mind that there is scant statistical evidence to back this up in any meaningful sense.The Women’s Institute historian Maggie Andrews argues that the success of shows such as the Great British Bake Off suggests that attitudes may be going full circle. “Both feminism and the Women’s Institute have come together a little bit, in that domesticity isn’t such a bad thing as people thought, or possibly that the workplace is not as much fun as we all thought,” she said. “Elements of the domestic have become much sexier and are seen as an escape from the horrors of society. It has made feminists rethink themselves.”Capitalism is soul-sucking – who knew? And, like many women, I find little more arousing than the unfair division of domestic labour. Which is why Andrews has a point, even if she appears to be buying into the cultural myth that feminists have spent the last 30 years dedicating their lives to becoming ball-busting career hags in power suits who reject domesticity wholesale in favour of crushing inexplicably tiny men beneath their monstrous stilettos.I’m sure many second-wave women would have relished the chance to turn their backs on the sheer laborious monotony of housework, but unfortunately all the much-longed-for feminist revolution seems to have achieved is to double the burden: now you can work a full-time job and do twice as much housework as men. Aren’t we lucky?Of course, any woman pointing this out is immediately labelled a snobby shrew who dismisses women who choose to stay at home as having brains consisting of fluffy Victoria sponge. Which is rubbish. But let’s not pretend that housewifery – in contrast to paid employment – was the easy option for women (those who argue this tend also to be the kind of person who regards maternity leave as some kind of blissful, prolonged holiday). The feminist revolution has doubled the burden; now you can work full time and do twice as much housework as men Which is why Andrews’ point is so interesting: not because we are about to return to pre-enlightened gender norms (we are not, and to suggest so is tenuous at best), but because we are certainly seeing a “rebranding” of the feminine in contemporary visual culture. You don’t need to look at so many Instagram posts of smiling, svelte young women brandishing wholesome trays of homemade baked goods to suspect that the Victorian ideal of “the angel in the house”, as manifested in the archetype of the later 1950s housewife, might be back with a bit of a vengeance. The only difference is that the brownies are now gluten-free.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Keep your chia seed smoothies off my Instagram feed says Bella MackieEven the semiotics of such images are reminiscent, harking back to pre-feminist days. Remark upon the glassy-eyed stares, the soft lighting, the domestic settings, the beatific smiles. How different are the glossy pictures of the clean eaters and vegan bloggers gracing our newspaper supplements from the images of the ideal 1950s Madison Avenue woman?Much has been made of the dubious health claims forwarded by food bloggers advocating a clean eating lifestyle: how this ultra-disciplined approach to eating can in itself be a mask for an eating disorder, whether anorexia or bulimia or orthorexia. Like the beauty and dieting regimes of our mothers and grandmothers, clean eating is all about control.Though ideals of female appearance wax and wane with the decades (“How attractive are you on the beach?” asked 1950s ads, “Skinny? Here’s how thousands can gain naturally alluring curves”), the desire to militaristically control women’s bodies has never gone away. Indeed, feminists such as Naomi Wolf have even argued that as women became increasingly liberated from the home a new control mechanism was needed, which came in the form of a ramped-up beauty industry fixated on physical and bodily perfection.Clean eating is one such control mechanism, and we should resist it – not just because it is founded upon dubious, unscientific health claims, but because it perpetuates a vision of femininity that any modern woman will tell you is outdated. That doesn’t mean that you can’t enjoy baking a cake or two – as many men nowadays do too, by the way – but that’s a very different thing indeed.Take last years’ Bake Off winner Nadiya Hussain. Some might argue that Nadiya, who wears a headscarf, and had an arranged marriage and three children under four by the time she was 25, is the true symbol of regressive misogyny here. And certainly there are aspects to her story that any enlightened democracy should be concerned about, most notably the fact that her parents prevented her from going to university. But baking – encouraged by a husband who said that he felt she was “wasted” and that her “wings had been clipped” – has for Hussain been a form of liberation; it has given her a career.The 100 best nonfiction books: No 18 – The Feminine Mystique by Betty Friedan (1963) Unlike the clean eaters, Hussain is not peddling some archaic vision of femininity. She is a thoroughly modern woman who has been outspoken about the downsides of domesticity. Because female domesticity always has a downside – not only for women, whose low-status caring responsibilities are still criminally undervalued, but also for men.You don’t need to read The Feminine Mystique to conclude that the women of the past, deprived of control outside the domestic sphere, would choose to exert it within the home instead, sometimes in emotionally manipulative ways; you just need to talk to men of that generation. It’s just one reason why people of both genders should be disturbed by modern nostalgia for the 1950s housewife. Whether carbs were present or not, it was no picnic.