I recently bought a set of top-of-the-range reusables. For coffee I got a KeepCup (keepcup.com), which fits neatly under any coffee machine, ensuring baristas don’t hate you during the morning rush. For water, famously available for free from a tap, I bought a Jerry Bottle (jerrybottle.com) and to add bubbles, a SodaStream (sodastream.co.uk) – each carbonator displaces 40 bottles.For every reusable receptacle you bring into your life, you save about 100 disposable versions. Plus, I’ve made new friends. When I bring my KeepCup to the coffee stand people want to know where I got it. Single-use packaging is so normalised – the average UK household gets through 500 plastic bottles a year – that it turns out you have to re-make the case for reusables quite often.So here’s mine: 15 to 51 trillion particles of plastic now float on the surface of oceans globally. But this represents just 1% of the plastic waste estimated to flow into oceans from land per year. Almost all of the plastic created still exists and global annual plastic production keeps rising: from 1.7 MMT (million metric tonnes) in 1950 to 311 MMT in 2014.When US scientists examined 192 countries with coastlines they found that the annual volume of plastic going into oceans was equivalent to pouring in five grocery bags full for every foot of coastline in the world. Countries with high personal waste generation rates – like ours – are the worst offenders. Then add the escaped stock when making bottles and bags, dubbed “mermaid’s tears”. Billions are added to this plastic soup every year.The #oneless campaign aims to rid London of single-use plastic bottles by 2017. This sounds ambitious. But ask yourself how much plastic you’d be happy to see floating in the ocean. The big picture: on the waterfront      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Water woman: Lizzie Carr travelled the waterways of England on a paddle board, logging plastic waste. Photograph: David PowellEnvironmentalist and blogger Lizzie Carr is Britain’s most down-to-earth adventurer. She insists on her journeys being low carbon and local. She has just completed the length of England via waterways on a stand-up paddle board. Over 400 miles paddling through locks and aqueducts she also logged plastic waste. Her inventory included 1,662 plastic bottles, 851 plastic bags and 3 chairs (lizzieoutside.co.uk).Well dressed: knitting with a clean conscience      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Calvin top, knitted with Billie Jean yarn made from denim factory wasteClean knitting: it’s a thing. A close relative of clean eating – where you prepare only recognisable ingredients at home (thereby minimising processed food in your diet) – knitting clean involves the same ethical scrutiny of provenance of materials. So it’s out with chemical- and water-intensive synthetic yarns. Wool and the Gang already lead the way with knit-your-own ready-to-wear kits, but their latest eco yarn, called Billie Jean, is made from denim factory waste, decreasing the amount that ends up in landfill. It is 100% upcycled, sustainable and free of chemicals and dye. And it is available in two colours: ‘raw’ or ‘dirty denim’. Knit the Calvin sleeveless top (pictured, above) in Billie Jean yarn and you will save 6,000 litres of water – the equivalent of 100 showers.Email Lucy at lucy.siegle@observer.co.uk or follow her on Twitter @lucysiegle