It’s not every symphony orchestra that features a solo for Ressikan flute.“It’s a standard Irish tin whistle, a Clarke whistle in the key of D, which is what Jay Chattaway used to record the original Inner Light Suite,” Justin Freer tells me backstage of the Theater at Madison Square Garden after the New York performance of Star Trek: the Ultimate Voyage.To those that have never visited the 24th century, it may seem like any other instrument, but for the devoted fans of Star Trek, its poignant tones represent one of the most emotional instances in this 50-year franchise: the full life Captain Jean-Luc Picard lived and lost via a memory implant in the fifth season episode of Star Trek: The Next Generation, The Inner Light.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Over 2,000 fans, many of whom – let’s face it – had likely never visited the New York Philharmonic a mere 30 blocks away, sat enraptured by the scores from various Star Trek shows and films, music from composers such as Jerry Goldsmith, James Horner and Michael Giacchino. It also meant hearing the original television theme by Alexander Courage; and Gerald Fried’s Ancient Battle from the original series, better known as the extremely hummable, often quoted and eternally awesome Kirk/Spock fight theme.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “It’s very complicated music,” Freer adds. “But it speaks very directly to the audience, transporting us and convincing us that they are not fighting with rubber sticks.”Freer’s company CineConcerts is all about presenting film music in a live orchestra setting, and he has his eyes on his charts and musicians. Most in the audience however are pulled into the tractor beam of three high definition screens showing tightly timed edits from the vast trove of Star Trek footage. There’s not a famous moment from anywhere in the five decades of materials that’s missing, but Freer and his collaborator Brady Beaubien have done a remarkable job in curating these images to delight even the most jaded fan. By some miracle, even the Yosemite scenes from Star Trek V: The Final Frontier look cool.In internet-speak they’d be called supercuts: fan-friendly mini-films centered on a theme like exploration, sacrifice or friendship. Other sequences are more specific, like a hats-off to the Holodeck (yes, Data in that stupid Sherlock Holmes hat makes an appearance) to Klingons (during which time the stage, tweaked to resemble a Galaxy class ship’s bridge, is bathed in blood red light) or to just the Enterprise itself. My favorite was surely the salute to the googly-eyed, furry or scaly latex creatures waiting to greet us once we figure out a way to warp beyond Sol. I can’t tell you seeing which deep cut made my heart leap more, the Antedean ambassadors or Yarnek the Excalbian.A general history of the franchise is woven throughout. It’s narrated by Michael Dorn, whose Lieutenant Commander Worf, son of Mogh and mighty Klingon warrior from the House of Martok, appeared a record 281 times including The Next Generation, Deep Space Nine and four feature films. (If you want to bump that to 282 by including the liberal barrister known as Colonel Worf from 70 years earlier in his timeline, be my guest.) This narrative thread, though light, plays one uninterrupted, representative scene from each series. The original season, as it frequently does, fares best, with Captain Kirk’s classic “risk is our business” monologue, the moment that best sums up series creator Gene Roddenberry’s optimistic spirit. Alas, the spotlight on Enterprise, a show we fans are frequently left defending, is the undeniable dull patch of the evening, mostly due to a poorly chosen sequence.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest While Star Trek: the Ultimate Voyage is an essential ticket for fans it might not be as much of a hit for those with no familiarity with the show. Put bluntly, the spouses dragged to this by their enthusiastic mates will have one hell of a chit. With no pre-existing emotional connection to the characters this is essentially a two-hour whirl of images, many of which involve people in goofy make-up, set to pounding, triumphant music. While much of it, particularly Jerry Goldsmith’s Main Title from Star Trek: First Contact, is quite beautiful, to a newbie the hours could seem like days, if I may paraphrase Starfleet Regulation 46A. As the enthusiast next to you chuckles at the interplay between Michael Giacchino’s new reboot score and a 50 year-old moment, you may wonder if you’re missing the joke. Unlike the touring shows of The Godfather or Lord of the Rings, complete movies set to live orchestral scores, one cannot simply walk into this event and expect to get all of it without putting in some years as a fan first.Luckily, Star Trek has no dearth of fans.The show continues across North America, hitting Chicago, Houston, Portland, Los Angeles and elsewhere. European dates for summer are being finalized, though one can already set coordinates for Paris in late September. Details here