Extramarital dating site Ashley Madison is in disarray with its customer service centre telling users their accounts are secure despite the company admitting its user records have been stolen.More than 2,500 customer records have been released to the public by attackers who claim to have stolen the total database of the site, which claims to have more than 33 million members in 46 countries.A Guardian journalist, who had previously signed up for an account when investigating the site, called Ashley Madison to discover how to delete her account for free, an offer made in the wake of the hack.What happened when I tried to delete my Ashley Madison account A succession of representatives stated that Ashley Madison’s system was completely secure, that the hack was not successful, and that only two members’ details were ever leaked.The first representative, who spoke with a north American accent, told her that the company’s internet went down “half an hour ago”, which meant they could not reset her password or delete her account. When asked if the outage was connected with the hack, the representative said: “They tried [to take the internet down] but they didn’t succeed. We have a technical glitch. Sometimes we have glitches on the system because we have too many members.”The representative offered to transfer her to another agent but the call was disconnected.On redialling, the journalist spoke to a second representative, who told her: “We understand your concern that is released by the media. Our system is completely secured. They tried to hack the site but they weren’t successful. Your details are never compromised … it’s false [that 2,500 customer records were leaked]. Only two of our members’ details were leaked. You know how the media work and they want to get attention. The site is very successful and are trying to make stories.”An attempt to transfer the call was again disconnected. Upon redialling, another representative repeated the claim that only two members were affected, and added that: “Credit card details are not saved in our servers, it’s saved in payment processors. Email addresses and photos are saved in the system. But no one has access to us, it takes a lot to break our system. The media has made it sound like a huge deal.”The initial statement from Ashley Madison’s attackers, who call themselves The Impact Team does contain personal information about two specific customers, one from Massachusetts and one from Ontario. But it also contained a link to six different repositories of a data dump containing 2,500 records, until Ashley Madison used copyright law to get the mirrors removed. And the attackers claim to have access to all of the 33m user accounts.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Ashley Madison website claims to have 33 million users. Photograph: Cartel/Rex ShutterstockThe information released by the attackers also features the details of one user who is listed as a “paid delete” – the controversial service by which Ashley Madison charged £15 in the UK and $19 in the US to fully remove an account. But, the attackers claim, that user’s payment information was still available on the servers, revealing him to be the Ontario-based customer.In a statement released on Monday evening, Ashley Madison told the Guardian: “The ‘paid delete’ option offered by AshleyMadison.com removes all information related to a member’s profile and communications activity. The process involves a hard-delete of a requesting user’s profile, including the removal of posted pictures and all messages sent to other system users’ email boxes.”But while the company affirms that the paid-delete option removes “profile and communications activity”, it has refused to elaborate on whether the option also removes personal information related to payments activity, as the attackers allege it does not. Most countries have regulations which require the storage of electronic payment information for a certain period of time as an anti-fraud measure.The Guardian asked Ashley Madison why its customer service representatives were telling users that the hack was not successful, even after the company’s founder and chief executive, Noel Biderman, was quoted as saying: “We’re not denying this happened. Like us or not, this is still a criminal act.”An Ashley Madison spokesman said its official statement on the matter still stood and the company had spoken with its customer service team “to make sure that the message is consistent all round … some of them might be stepping a bit too far in terms of what they’re saying”.One security expert told the Guardian the Ashley Madison hack was likely to be more damaging than many others, because users would be loath to admit that they are victims and ask for help. Tod Beardsley, the security engineering manager at cyber security firm Rapid7, said: “Dating site users are likely to feel more violated after a breach than those caught up in a retail or government website breach and they are less likely to reach out for help and advice on how to manage their identity information after a breach. For Ashley Madison users in particular, this tendency to suffer silently is all but guaranteed.”A user from Sydney, Australia, who gave the pseudonym Steve Dee, told the Guardian many of his fellow users were simply fantasists. In an email exchange, he wrote: “We’d like to believe that those people are bad people, but in many cases I think people go on there for the experience of being on there, flirting with the idea of an affair, as a fantasy.“Like a lot of dating sites, AM works more like a porn site – they are selling the suggestion of a woman wanting you or a chance of that. And for those in a relationship, I can imagine them using the site to say: ‘I want the fantasy of being able to pick one of these men or women (fake or real) and have this wild experience’ ... You become part of someone else’s sexual fantasy. You are the hot guy that they couldn’t resist, so much so they broke their vows, just to get the sexual fulfilment you can provide. And that’s what they are selling – that fantasy.”Dee said he was not worried by the threat of his details being leaked because he had given a false name. He said: “Nobody uses their name ... I don’t think there’s much personal on there. I don’t have a public profile, as in I’m not famous, so I have nothing to lose. If they have my credit card, that’s different, but I didn’t hear they had that kind of stuff.”