Snapshot: My grandfather, a powerful role modelMy grandfather’s name was Kazem Tahami, and he was born in 1930 in Kermanshah, in the western part of Iran. One of seven brothers and sisters, he was the first of his family to go to university. He believed education to be the most valuable thing a person could have, and when my mother came to London in the 80s to pursue her further education, it was with his full support and encouragement.This photograph was taken in 1964 in front of the tomb of the great poet Saadi in Shiraz. My grandfather is the man on the far right. Next to him is my grandmother, whom he treated like a princess; he always did the shopping, always took my mother and her sister to and from school, and treated the family whenever possible, while saving every penny that he could have spent on himself. The little girl standing between my grandparents is my mother, aged four, and to the left are my great-aunt and great-uncle.I remember my grandfather as a loving yet intimidating man. He was never without a newspaper, was constantly listening to the radio, and continued to educate himself about the world until his last few years. He had an incredibly dry sense of humour, and he often made use of idioms and recited bits of classical poetry. My deepest regret is that my Persian (Farsi) was never good enough for me to fully engage with his fantastic wit.Whenever I spent the summer in Iran, he would wake up early in the morning and go to buy fresh bread from the best local bakery, well before the rest of us were awake. He always spoke of my academic achievements with pride and remembered my acceptance into medical school, even once his Alzheimer’s had progressed. Now he is gone, I realise how lucky I was to be so cherished by a grandfather who lived so far away. Although I can never see him again, I am happy for the memories that remain and grateful for the powerful role model that was my grandfather.Ava ZamaniPlaylist: I’ll always honour Dad’s living years The Living Years by Mike and the Mechanics“Every generation / Blames the one before / And all of their frustrations / Come beating on your door”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “I wasn’t there that morning / When my father passed away” – poignant words from this song that remain in my memory. I was not there.It has been more than a year now and I think of you every day. Your death was expected and, in many ways, it was a good thing after all you were reduced to by your illness.I was sent home from work that day on compassionate leave. I knew immediately I had to write your eulogy. It was cathartic in the sense that, with every sentence, I realised you had left your own precious legacy: every treasured memory from your army days and from all those important milestones that made you the man you were. And, of course, there are all the memories of times we shared.With every sentence I had to stop because I was racked with sadness and loss. I felt as though I were suffocating – I could hardly breathe – but I ploughed on because I knew that this was what I wanted to do to honour you – to ensure that people knew you were loved and that you had been a good and decent father. They knew it anyway.I wasn’t there that morning. You were in France and I couldn’t get to you in time. My sister was with you and held your hand as you left this world. She gave you comfort and said: “You can go to sleep now, Dad.” And you did.You were ready. It had been a long and weary two years since your stroke. We knew you were not coming back from that. Forty years had passed almost to the day since our mum had died, and I like to think of the reunion you might have had, somewhere unknown to us.Our world seems a strange place without you in it. Thank you for being a great dad.Gillian OelmanWe love to eat: Mum’s trifle, a treat for special occasionsIngredients1 large (or 2 small) raspberry swiss roll, cut into one-inch slicesSherry 1 tin mandarin segments in juice1 packet orange jelly1 pint of thick custard1 large tub of fresh whipping creamLayer one: Line the bottom of a large bowl with the slices of swiss roll and douse with sherry. Drain the mandarin segments (save the juice to use in the jelly) and scatter over the sponge base. Next, make the jelly in a measuring jug, by separating into cubes and stirring in half a pint of boiling water until dissolved. Add the saved orange juice and enough cold water to give you a pint of jelly mixture. Pour over the sponge and fruit. Once cooled, place in the fridge and leave overnight so that the jelly sets firm.  Lisa Quarton’s trifle.Layer two: Make up a thick custard. Allow it to cool, then pour over the set jelly. Place the bowl back in the fridge and leave overnight to set.Layer three: Whisk the cream until it goes into soft peaks. Spoon over the custard and smooth the top. It is now ready to serve.When I was growing up, my mum always served a trifle for pudding on special occasions such as Christmas, Easter and birthdays or, indeed, any other time when we might have had guests to tea (dinner was what our family ate in the middle of the day).Never one for light, fluffy, creamy, sickly sweet desserts, I have always shunned everyone else’s trifles. Somehow, though, my mum’s hits the spot, particularly (although I admit it seems perverse) the leftovers at breakfast time on the morning after the night before. I don’t know whether it’s the thimbleful “hair of the dog” or the equivalent of Mum’s comforting, “There, there, there,” but when consolation is required, a sneaky bowl of trifle in the late morning while I am still in my pyjamas seems to do the trick.Now, I am the one showing my children how to make her trifle. And while they love the different stages of the layering process, they have a few more years yet before they discover its medicinal benefits.Lisa QuartonWe’d love to hear your storiesWe will pay £25 for every Letter to, Playlist, Snapshot or We love to eat we publish. Write to Family Life, The Guardian, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU or email family@theguardian.com. Please include your address and phone number