Peter Dundas, creative director of Roberto Cavalli, has left the the label after only 19 months with the Florence-based label.The Norwegian designer had previously been the artistic director of Emilio Pucci, which he joined in 2008, but had worked with founder Roberto Cavalli as head designer from 2002 to 2005 and his return was seen as something of a homecoming. Dundas’ mix of 1970s, rock-inspired styles and adeptness for print was thought to have been well-suited to Cavalli’s well-known feminine silhouettes, body-hugging fabrics and animal prints.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Designer Peter Dundas at the end of what proved to be his final show for Roberto Cavalli. Photograph: Alberto Pizzoli/AFP/Getty ImagesHowever, his debut show in 2015 received mixed reviews as he attempted to rejuvenate the brand with a younger, edgier feel. In subsequent collections, a return to his trademark bohemian look was better received.Following Justin O’Shea’s departure from Brioni last week after seven months at the Italian suit brand, it marks the latest in a long-running saga of fashion musical chairs, with new creative directors taking over at Dior, Saint Laurent, Lanvin, Calvin Klein and Oscar de la Renta in the past year.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A model on the Roberto Cavalli SS17 catwalk, Peter Dundas’ final show. Photograph: Estrop/Getty Images“I want to thank Roberto Cavalli and the Group for this valuable experience and I wish them the best in their future endeavours,” said Dundas. “I am especially grateful to the ateliers and the teams who participated in this adventure.”Gian Giacomo Ferraris, CEO of Cavalli, said: “On behalf of Roberto Cavalli and our shareholders, we thank Peter Dundas for his contribution to the brand, and we wish him well for his future ... as Roberto Cavalli goes through a period of transformation, the design team will carry on and the appointment of a new creative director will be made in due course.”Dundas’ last collection was for spring/summer 2017, shown in September in Milan. Cavalli have yet to name a successor.