The idea of the TinyLetter is largely self-explanatory: you sign up to a mailing list from which emails are then sent out with varying regularity – some are daily, others biweekly, some even monthly. The diminutive “tiny” is appropriate because there is an emphasis on brevity. And note that they are termed “letters”, not “newsletters” – newsletters being irksome things trying to sell you cheap flights or fashionable clothes, while letters offer a more personal, perhaps even somewhat antiquated conceit.Lena Dunham's newsletter is a victory for the letter-writing renaissance Those sending out TinyLetters do so the old(ish)-fashioned way; logging in and sending out by hand. The creator of the software, email company MailChimp, created them as an antidote to busy, design-heavy bulk emails. There are a host of TinyLetters covering a gamut of topics and theme, from those that send you a curated playlist of music every week to a round-up of the week’s stories on evolution, ecology and birds. There is a letter dedicated to promoting women in comedy. But it is with the TinyLetters dedicated to the promotion of literature that the platform, predicated on personal correspondence and words, really sings. The Lunchtime Poetry letter has a high open-rate: 'It's a simple and enjoyable daily routine' TinyLetters dedicated to short stories, poems and other more esoteric forms offer an accessible route into genres that can feel opaque and unreachable. Contemporary poetry or short fiction have famously low sales figures. Laura Waddell began her TinyLetter, Lunchtime Poetry, to make poetry a more regular part of her own routine. Subscribers receive a single poem to their inbox at lunchtime. “It is like takeaway poetry; a daily, one-poem delivery service to your inbox,” she says. “It’s a simple and enjoyable daily routine that fits into the lives of the subscribers.” There is a very high open-rate for the letter and she says subscribers often tell her how much they have enjoyed the poems, even sending videos and recordings of themselves reading the poems back to her. TinyLetters are also routes to promoting works by writers from underrepresented backgrounds. For example, if black female writers are less likely to gain exposure, subscribing to a group dedicated to promoting black female talent – such as Well Read Black Girl – offers a radical source of great literature that is less widely available. Could packaging a story or poem in the context of an email, something suited to the minimalism and immediacy of the form, and fully integrated into our daily lives, help to sidestep their obscure nature?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Good reads … TinyLetters offer a host of literary diversions Photograph: Mito Images/Rex/ShutterstockFive TinyLetters to try outA Small Good Thing: You know you are in safe hands when the person sending you short fiction is Dylan Thomas prize shortlistee and Edge Hill short story prize-shortlisted writer Thomas Morris. Recent short stories he’s sent out include those by the likes of Richard Brautigan and Grace Paley, with many other masters of the form included too.Lunchtime Poetry: Lunchtime Poetry goes by the tagline “Eat a poem with your lunch” and sends a poem directly to your inbox during your lunch hour. With a loose approach to curation, you’re likely to enjoy anything from 20th-century American poems to experimental contemporary works with your desk salad.Well Read Black Girl: Well Read Black Girl promotes literature by black women, operating like an online book club. It’s dense with great content, including links to pieces about black literature and history, events and the current book club pick. What’s more, you can join in the conversation on Twitter.Grief Bacon: Grief Bacon is the glorious candid weekly from fiction and non-fiction writer Helena Fitzgerald, and offers slick short-form personal essays on football, heatwaves, crying in public and whatever else takes her interest that week.Here Be Monsters: Novelist and short story writer Karen Onojaife delivered a full short story across 12 TinyLetters titled Veni, Vidi, Vici, each taking the form of never-sent draft emails from a woman to her ex-lover. While that project is complete, her new work Here Be Monsters will offer a similar premise.