European agriculture ministers have agreed a €500m (£366m) aid package at an emergency meeting in Brussels as police outside clashed with farmers protesting against falling dairy and meat prices.The announcement from the commission came after a day of protests, which police said involved 4,800 farmers – with 70 from Britain – and 1,450 tractors. Tractors blockaded streets while some protesters pelted the police with eggs and sprayed milk and hay at them. At least one police officer was injured and water cannon were used.Jyrki Katainen, vice-president of the European commission, said the aid was a “robust and decisive response” to the crisis in the industry. The €500m package includes cash for struggling farms, additional funds to promote European dairy products and the creation of a new “high level group” that will consider introducing new “financial and risk-hedging instruments such as futures markets for agricultural products”.Katainen added: “We believe firmly that the measures I have outlined represent the most appropriate mix of immediate and decisive actions, coupled with forward-looking measures, to deal with the current difficulties in the markets.”However, British farming leaders expressed disappointment that the EC will not intervene in the market to shore up dairy prices. The so-called “milk intervention price” that would trigger the commission to buy milk and milk powder stands at between 16p and 17p, below present prices.“We owe it to farmers to make it clear that this is not the appropriate policy response to the current situation,” Katainen said.UK farmers join Brussels protest over milk and meat prices British agriculture leaders said farmers were “really struggling to pay their bills” and called for greater government intervention in the milk market to help put a floor on prices.The NFU, NFU Scotland, NFU Cymru and Ulster Farmers Union said after the meeting the government needed to deliver on their promises.Elizabeth Truss, the environment secretary, represented Britain at the meeting of farming ministers. She has pledged to push for the creation of a futures and insurance market in dairy products so farmers can insure themselves against price fluctuations.The average farm gate price of milk in the UK has fallen by more than 25% in the last year and stands at 23.35p a litre, below the estimated production cost of 30p a litre.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Belgian riot police stand guard as farmers protest in Brussels city centre. Photograph: Jacky Naegelen/ReutersFalling milk and meat prices have also hit farmers in mainland Europe. The demonstrators in Brussels were primarily from Belgium, France and Germany.The British farming unions held talks with Truss after the European meeting. In a statement, they said: “We want to see a review of intervention for milk prices to help put a floor in the market and a review of market management measures to help farmers get through this short-term crisis.In no other industry would firms think it good to milk their best suppliers dry “There was agreement in the meeting that a widespread culture change is needed within the food supply chain to ensure that farmers see a fair share of risk and reward.  “The government and devolved ministers need to deliver on their promises, work together to achieve this culture change across the supply chain and to see real understanding of the cost of production to farmers.”European farmers have suffered a sharp decline in demand for their products as Russia blocks western imports of food and China tries to bolster domestic production rather than buying milk from Europe. One banner held up by protesters in Brussels said “Europe is drowning in milk”.British farmers blame supermarkets for the slide in milk prices. They claim milk has been used as a weapon in the industry price war and retailers are not doing enough to promote British-sourced products. In protest, they have blockaded distribution centres and herded two cows through an Asda store in Stafford. In response, supermarkets have bowed to pressure from farmers on several issues. Asda, Morrisons, Aldi and Lidl have increased the amount they pay, and Tesco has agreed to use only British milk in its own-brand yoghurts instead of importing from Germany, as it had done previously.The British environment secretary Elizabeth Truss said: “This package of support shows the EU commission have listened to calls for urgent action to help farmers overcome the severe cash-flow pressures they are coming under.“We now need more detail on how these measures will help our farmers in the UK and provide the short-term relief that is needed. We need a specific commitment from the commission that basic payment scheme checks can be relaxed so that more farmers can be promptly paid.“We will continue to work with the commission to resolve the pressing difficulties facing farmers which extend beyond the dairy sector and ensure the support package provided is also available to help other farmers - particularly in our lamb, beef and pig meat sectors.”