The four British founders of tech company Idyl Hands have just sold their company to US investors, netting them £14m each. That’s the premise of Channel 4’s new comedy Loaded, which started yesterday.Wallets stuffed to bursting, Josh, Leon, Ewan and Watto celebrate in traditional fashion: taking a bath in Dom Perignon and hiring a barbershop quartet to sing Fuck You to everyone who refused them seed money. The first episode had a couple of laugh-out-loud moments about the challenges of sudden wealth (cue tiny violins), but did we really need to see this story again? It seems that there’s an endless appetite for man-boys working in technology: before Loaded, there was Silicon Valley, Amazon’s Betas, The IT Crowd and what was that other thing …? Oh yes. Reality.A couple of weeks ago, Wired magazine was criticised for a cover story that hyped a group of all-male, mostly white coders as “the brilliant new hackers who’ll soon shape the world”. The sad thing is, they’re probably right: a 2013 study found that just 26% of people working in computing were women, and we make up less than 20% of the workforce at tech giants like Google, Facebook and Twitter.What Facebook Knows About You review – start panicking now! No one is suggesting that a gender imbalance of this magnitude can be changed overnight or should be blamed on pop culture, but it’s disappointing to see this dynamic repeatedly and unthinkingly replicated on the small screen. Writers can theoretically create any world they want, and yet it’s easier to find a depiction of robot rape than two women chatting about computers.HBO sitcom Silicon Valley, currently in its fourth season, effortlessly satirises start-up culture with wit and insight, poking fun at everything from software engineers’ lack of social skills to the God-like status granted to some CEOs. It’s a shame, then, that women are side-lined. By my calculations, it took five episodes to pass the Bechdel test (having two named female characters who talk to each other about something other than a man; a low bar).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Witty and satirical – but far from passing the Bechdel test … Silicon Valley. Photograph: HBOWomen in the show are typically girlfriends or assistants, defined in relation to men. Even the female executives, Monica (Amanda Crew) and her boss Laurie (Suzanne Cryer) are just strait-laced foils for genius coder Richard (Thomas Middleditch) and his band of misfit men. As depressing as this tendency is, the good news is that it is possible to course-correct. Season one of the compelling 80s computing drama Halt and Catch Fire focused on Lee Pace’s slimy businessman Joe MacMillan and his tech-savvy yet gormless new sidekick, Gordon Clark (Scoot McNairy). In season two, though, there was a shift in focus to the vastly more charismatic and talented female leads, Donna (Kerry Bishé) and Cameron (Mackenzie Davis), and their attempts to build an early Facebook-eBay hybrid.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   There is a way to shake things up … Halt and Catch Fire. Photograph: Tina Rowden/AMCThere have been other impressive female tech experts on TV on occasion, from Veronica Mars’ teen hacker Cindy “Mac” Mackenzie (Tina Majorino) to Penelope Garcia (Kirsten Vangsness) on Criminal Minds, who operated a room of criminal-catching gadgets faster than the speed of light while rising above being nicknamed “baby girl”. And there are more to come: YouTube Red, the company’s ad-free subscription service, is developing Hyperlinked, a kids’ show about a girl band whose members learn to code. That’s the kind of positive portrayal we need more of, considering a recent survey discovered that some girls rule out STEM careers by the time they’re seven. In real life, women in tech are undertaking ambitious projects. Robyn Exton created Her, a hugely popular dating app for queer women. Robyn Tong Gray is the co-founder of Otherworld Interactive, a gender-balanced company that creates virtual reality experiences. And Mariéme Jamme’s consultancy Spotone Global Solutions helps tech businesses expand into Europe, Africa, Asia and the Middle East. If producers want to tell stories about the industry that feature a more diverse mix of races and genders, they won’t have to look far to find them.I’m not saying they should do so to redress a longstanding imbalance (although there are worse reasons) but because a wider range of experiences leads to more inventive stories and new sources of humour (surely Loaded and Silicon Valley will run out of penis references eventually). A show about app developers or hardware designers that doesn’t centre around white men acting like doofuses might not shape the world, but it could shake it up a little. 