Have phone-hackers retrained as what we might call drone-hackers? Lost in Showbiz is moved to ask after TV personality, literary market-mover and pending national treasure Richard Madeley suffered a close encounter in his Cornwall garden this week.We lay our scene near Polperro, where Richard and his wife Judy have a second home, which can only be described as idyllic in that Richard’s stream of consciousness flows right through it. Quite what that sort of irrigation does to the flora and fauna is the most tantalising of mysteries: whenever I imagine its garden I picture leopard-spotted unicorns frolicking among serried ranks of non sequiturs. All the animals can talk, obviously, and they function as a living archive of Richard’s most hilarious quotes. “I’m like Hitler in the kitchen,” one head of a fluffy pink hydra says to another head. “Do you find people patronise you?” comes the reply. “That means they talk down to you.” At 6pm, all the animals change into their Ali G costumes and drink cocktails on the magenta lawn.Yet it seems person or persons unknown wish to let daylight in on psychotropia. On Tuesday, Richard revealed he had just spotted a drone flying over said garden, which eventually came to a static position above him as he read the Daily Telegraph on his terrace. “I was wearing daft surfer shorts,” he related in a subsequent Daily Telegraph article on the matter, “and, well, nothing else.” Furthermore: “I’d been … cutting my toenails.”What was the Zen master of live unpredictability to do? “I thought about fetching my .22 air rifle and shooting down the nasty little intruder,” he explains. “It would have been an easy one-shot snipe.” I don’t mind admitting I love it when Madeley talks like this – it makes me feel like his first job before going to Border Television was in Delta Force, taking out Central American revolutionaries with clinical precision. Anyway, as he continues: “The robotic carcass would have fallen on to my lawn, but the words ‘criminal damage’ whispered in my ear. Do I own the airspace above my property? Probably not. Did I want to be the party that the police took in for questioning?”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Rise of the drones: how unmanned aircraft took offThe inquiry is rhetorical for our student of the effects of miscarriages of justice. As Richard once put it to one of the Birmingham Six: “What do you notice most that has changed during your 18 years in jail? Cars have five gears now, for example.”So instead of bringing down the drone in a targeted strike, Richard opted to leap into his car and drive down the lane in search of its operator. There he discovered “a scruffy white van” – whose registration number he subsequently tweeted – and “a pudgy middle-aged man hurriedly pushing something under the front seat before leaping back inside and starting the engine.” Richard relates that he banged on the side of the van, but the man revved hard and drove off. Not five minutes after the tweet of his number plate, according to Richard, the chap in question phoned in to Devon and Cornwall police. “He hadn’t meant any harm,” paraphrases Madeley. “It was an innocent flight. Yes, he’d been taking pictures via the drone, but would never dream of using or selling any of the images. No harassment intended. Apologies for any incursion into my privacy …”And was that an end to it? Alas not. The Plymouth Herald led the next day with an intriguing alternative account of the incident, featuring a harmless teenage drone enthusiast demanding “a full apology” for the trauma inflicted upon him by Richard. “I am still shook up now,” the teenager claimed, “but was very bad last night. My mate had a panic attack all over a psychotic celebrity in his boxer shorts chasing our van.” Yet another reminder that we are only at the threshold of understanding the psychological damage suffered by drone operators. Who knows – maybe this kid will one day be an official counsellor for those who accidentally press the button on their joystick over an Afghan wedding party.In the meantime, helpful additional quotes on the matter were provided to the Plymouth Herald by one George Bamby, who seemed to have had almost a drone’s eye view of the entire episode. “Richard Madeley drove out of the driveway and skidded up the road before slamming the brakes right next to the van,” said George. “He jumped out the car in his boxer shorts and started screaming, swearing and banging on the back of the van, telling him to stop. These two young lads just panicked. He was like a crazed lunatic and the drone didn’t go anywhere near his house. They were totally innocent and hadn’t broken any laws.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Miley Cyrus: also a victim of a drone strike. Photograph: Randy Shropshire/Getty ImagesBut who is George Bamby? I am shocked – shocked! – to discover that he is a middle-aged paparazzo, of all things, whose website indicates that much of his published work is pictures of Richard and Judy. Particularly Judy. Consequently, Richard has had a word with the editor of the Plymouth Herald, and concludes: “Claims it was all innocent fun are horseshit.” As for the identity of the middle-aged man he described as the driver of the van … well, perhaps we’ll never know.What does seem clear is that we are now well into a new era of news-gathering. This front is well established in LA, for instance, where Miley Cyrus photographed a drone that came to rest above her in her garden while she was having a barbecue. After much celebrity protest, pap drones were banned last year by California’s governor, Jerry Brown. To adapt Woody Allen, this would appear to be the sole cultural advantage Los Angeles has over Polperro.But what of our own sky hacks? Perhaps drone use was always going to be the next logical step to some of those whose story-gathering skills extended only to wandering electronically around in other people voicemails. Now that balloon has gone up, you’ve got to retrain as something, havencha?