The purple emperor butterfly, a rather eccentric 1950s schoolmaster called Ian Heslop once declared, is the ultimate “big game”. A renowned collector, he boasted of catching as many emperors as he had shot elephants (four) but said that no exotic African beast gave him “so much joy as the seeing of my first emperor safely in the net”.It is no longer acceptable to shoot elephants or catch purple emperors but Heslop was on to something – the overlooked adrenal pleasure of a butterfly safari. Chasing butterflies, to photograph or simply to enjoy, may seem like a whimsical pastime but can be surprisingly thrilling.Searching for something as small and elusive as a butterfly brings you alive to every possibility in the landscape, every movement around you.Butterflying forces you to loiter. When you do, unexpected things happen: I’ve turned from admiring a black hairstreak to virtually bump into a roe deer. If you’re a beginner, you could start by contacting your local branch of Butterfly Conservation, which organises days out. If you want to get out alone, here are four of Britain’s best butterfly experiences.The purple emperor Apatura iris      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Westend61/Getty ImagesAppearanceMales flash iridescent purple and are often spotted soaring above the largest oak trees in English woods on a hot summer’s morning. To spot them requires patience and fieldcraft because this butterfly is easily spooked by movement. It is often elusive, refusing to descend from its treetop home to feed on flowers like most butterflies do, but is occasionally tempted by muddy puddles, fox scat and even shrimp paste.Spotting tipsTo maximise your chances, get to a wood by 8.30am, spread shrimp paste (really) on a sunny track below some large oak trees, and sit still and wait. I’ve seen them like this at Fermyn Woods in Northamptonshire but Matthew Oates, the country’s leading emperor obsessive, says the best site in the country is now the rewilded Knepp Castle in Sussex. Knepp offers “butterfly safaris” with the incomparable Oates as your guide – it’s a brilliant day out.Location: Fermyn Woods, Northamptonshire, NN14 3HS. Knepp Castle Estate, West Grinstead, RH13 8LJ.When: Last week of June, first three weeks of July.The swallowtail Papilionidae      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Westend61/Getty ImagesAppearanceA spectacular yellow-and-black insect with fancy tails, looks more like an escapee from a tropical butterfly house than Britain’s biggest native butterfly. Vladimir Nabokov and Winston Churchill were both huge fans, and Churchill tried (unsuccessfully) to breed it in Chartwell, Kent.Spotting tipsWhen you are searching for butterflies, think like a butterfly: most like the sunniest, sheltered spots, so seek these out. The swallowtail is also unusual in that it’s probably best seen from the water – electric boat trips are available the reserves listed below.The swallowtail is now confined to the Norfolk Broads, where its caterpillars feed on a marshland plant called milk parsley. My favourite place to see it is feeding on pink flowers (for some reason, this butterfly is attracted to pink/purple blooms) in the water meadows of How Hill, a beautifully-sited arts and crafts house and nature reserve.Location: How Hill nature reserve, Ludham, Norfolk, NR29 5PG. Hickling Broad Norfolk Wildlife Trust nature reserve, Hickling, Norfolk NR12 0BW. When: June.The chequered skipper Carterocephalus palaemon      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Bob Gibbons/Getty ImagesAppearanceWhen it’s sunny, these creatures whizz about in aerial combat so quickly, they can be hard to spot. The Chequered Skipper is a decent pub not far from Fermyn Woods and the pub’s name is a clue that this butterfly flew in central England. It vanished in 1976 and is now only found in the Highlands, around Fort William. It was only discovered here in the 1940s because it is not always easy to find a small, sun-loving insect in Scotland in May. This makes it an enjoyable challenge.Spotting tipsI’ve made a successful safari to Glasdrum, a beautiful nature reserve with boggy, sheltered ancient woodland – perfect habitat. One year, I feared the worst: it was grey and cool (12C) but by standing patiently in the sheltered rough grassland beneath some telegraph wires on the reserve, I eventually saw one, equally motionless, on a blade of grass.Location: Glasdrum Wood nature reserve, near Creagan Bridge, PA38 4BJ. Allt Mhuic nature reserve, Loch Arkaig, near Clunes.When: Last week of May, first two weeks of June.Duke of burgundy Hamearis lucina and adonis blue Polyommatus bellargus      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Duke of burgundy. Photograph: Alamy      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Adonis blue. Photograph: AlamyAppearanceChalk downland is the savanna of the butterfly world – dozens of our rarest butterflies breed or feed on the flowers found there. One of my most vivid childhood memories is visiting the South Downs and seeing thousands of Adonis and Chalkhill blues flying across the thyme-scented slopes. The Duke of Burgundy is one of the most endangered butterflies in Britain, but its numbers have revived in recent years.Spotting tipsThe peak season is at the end of July, when both these species are flying alongside rare silver-spotted skippers and large, golden-coloured dark-green fritillaries. The North Downs, South Downs, Chilterns, Cotswolds and Poldens offer some superb butterflying. Choose a sunny day, take a picnic, and enjoy.Location: Box Hill, North Downs, Tadworth, Surrey, KT20 7LB. Old Winchester Hill, Old Winchester Hill Lane, Warford, Hampshire. Collard Hill, National Trust nature reserve east of the B3151 between Street and Somerton, Somerset – best for Large Blues (June only).When: May for the Duke of Burgundy; end of July for the Adonis blue, Chalkhill Blue and silver-spotted skipper.Patrick Barkham’s The Butterfly Isles is published by Granta at £9.99. To order a copy for £7.99 inc UK p&p, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846.Six more wildlife tripsDolphin cruisesFor incredible, close-up views of the bottlenose dolphin powering out of the water, head for the Highlands and take a boat trip to Cromarty. There is a good chance of spotting porpoises and seals, too.Seal spotting      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: BBCBritain is home to almost half the world’s population of grey seals: mostly in Scotland, but other burgeoning colonies include the Norfolk coast. May is a great time to see them – take a boat trip and spot seals on Blakeney Point.Puffin cruiseVisit the Amble puffin festival in Northumberland and take a boat to Coquet island, an RSPB offshore reserve, where several thousand pairs of puffins mate and breed. 28 May-14 June.Mayfly mayhemTheir adult life is over within a day, but the best time to spot them is in May. See them in the reed-grasses on the low banks of the river Ovington in Hampshire: it’s also a great place to see brown trout and salmon.Bat safariGo for a dusk visit to the National Trust’s Stackpole Court in Pembrokeshire to spot bats from Wales’s largest colony, hunting for maybugs at night.Orchid huntingThe Victorians were keen on orchid hunting, and wealthy collectors would go on expeditions to find the rarest type. Closer to home, you can spot orchids in Homefield wood, a grassland reserve in Buckinghamshire – look out for military, fly and greater butterfly orchids in particular.Ideas from A Summer of British Wildlife by James Lowen, published by Bradt Travel Guides, £15.99 