I vividly remember my first encounter with Harper Lee’s To Kill a Mockingbird. As a teenager, bored one day in Bolton library, I picked the novel from the shelves and was entranced by its immediacy, and its strangeness. I loved its acutely observed depiction of southern American manners – of ladies “who bathed before noon … and by nightfall were like soft tea-cakes with frostings of sweat and sweet talcum”. And I fell for its hero, Atticus Finch – who was last week voted the most inspiring character in literature.Later, as a young English teacher taking her first O-level class, I found this book a sure-fire standby to capture – and hold – a class of 15-year-olds.To Kill a Mockingbird's Atticus Finch voted most inspiring character Sadly, this wonderful resource is no longer as readily available to today’s English teachers, a result of the new GCSE English literature requirement to focus on British classics. As general secretary of the Association of Teachers and Lecturers, I was bitterly opposed to many of Michael Gove’s education reforms. As an English teacher, the loss of To Kill a Mockingbird from the classroom literature canon is the change that makes me saddest.The first part of the novel is a loving meander through the everyday lives of two children, Scout and Jem. Then it becomes what Harper Lee herself called a “nightmare”. Finch, the children’s lawyer father, is appointed to defend Tom Robinson, a black man charged with raping a white woman. Acting against Atticus’s strict instructions, the children watch the trial from the “coloured balcony” of the court house, sitting among Robinson’s friends and neighbours.They are horrified. “The way that man called him ‘boy’ all the time and sneered at him, an’ looked around at the jury every time he answered,” observes Dill, their friend. To which Scout replies, in perhaps the most shocking sentence of the novel: “Well, Dill, after all he’s just a negro.”Scout has absorbed from her infancy that in this small town a black life will always be worth less than a white. But from Atticus she learns that personal integrity rests upon your actions, even when, as Atticus admits, “we were licked a hundred years before we started”.When Scout asks Atticus why he is defending a black man, he answers: “If I didn’t I couldn’t hold up my head in town … I couldn’t even tell you or Jem not to do something again.”  Despite Atticus’s demolition job on the prosecution’s case, a white jury finds Robinson guilty and sentences him to death.Which are the best books exploring prejudice? I have never read To Kill a Mockingbird with a class of pupils without witnessing outrage at the verdict, which has always opened up the space for class discussion about really serious issues: racism; the institutional abuse of power by state agencies; the indifference of the powerful to the maimed and damaged lives of the powerless. This led to a recognition by my pupils of the fragility of the rights we hold as citizens, and how it is our responsibility, individually and collectively, to protect and uphold them. The resonances in 2016 Europe are powerful.What Harper Lee’s calm but deadly observations expose is the uncomfortable truth that people can hold two entirely contradictory opinions at the same time. My teenage pupils were always deeply affronted by Lee’s depiction of the Alabama ladies using scripture for their own self-serving purposes.I always finish To Kill a Mockingbird with a deep sense of satisfaction. It is beautifully told; at times humorous, tragic, ironic and charming, it weaves a multilayered narrative that, through both its form and its content, shows the reader that life is complex; that good principles are the bedrock of a life well lived, but are worthless unless enacted, every day, in your ordinary dealings.To Kill a Mockingbird tells a moral tale that is highly relevant today. In a deeply divided, unequal and violent world there is a need for young people to develop fairness, empathy and principled action. That the novel will be read less often in today’s English classrooms is a great loss for the young people who will not encounter it in their teenage years, just when they need it.Now that Michael Gove has moved to the Ministry of Justice, where he seems to be looking at the power of education with new eyes, I wonder if it’s time for him to reread To Kill a Mockingbird. If he does, he may just start to regret consigning this powerful novel with its depiction of injustice to the back shelves in schools.Mary Bousted is general secretary of the Association of Teachers and Lecturers 