The shows that are of Emmy caliber are an exclusive (and somewhat arbitrary) club and breaking into the ranks can be exceptionally difficult, especially for established shows. However, this year we finally saw some old favorites get their due, and some new shows ascended to the VIP room of prestige television. But, of course, for all the glory of those recognized there is the indignity for those passed over or ignored.Game of Thrones dominates Emmy awards list with 23 nominations The biggest new addition to the Emmy firmament is The Americans, long a critical favorite on FX but just getting recognition now that it’s into its fourth season (and only has two remaining). Not only did the 80s espionage drama get tapped for outstanding drama, but both of its stars, Matthew Rhys and Keri Russell, both got the nod for their duplicitous roles as Russian spies living in America.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Matthew Rhys and Keri Russell in The Americans. Photograph: Craig Blankenhorn/APOn the comedy side, ABC’s Black-ish made it into the race as outstanding comedy for an excellent second season that took on everything from gun violence to the stereotype that black people don’t know how to swim. Star Anthony Anderson, who helped announce the nominees with Lauren Graham, got his second nod and Tracee Ellis Ross, who plays his wife, got her first. Emmys 2016: the full list of nominees As for new shows, Mr Robot made a strong showing for USA and Master of None proved to be Netflix’s newest gold trophy hope. The big nominees, however, were the country’s most talked-about shows Game of Thrones and The People v OJ Simpson: American Crime Story, FX’s limited series about the trial of the century that dominated the limited series categories and is sure to sweep up at the ceremony on 18 September. Aside from the additions of Mr Robot and The Americans, the outstanding drama category was essentially a repeat of last year, with winner Game of Thrones joining House of Cards, Downton Abbey, Better Call Saul and Homeland.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Good Wife: largely shut out of the running. Photograph: Best Possible Screen Grab/CBSAbsent from the list are Orange Is the New Black – whose lackluster third season is in competition this year, not the just-aired and stronger fourth season – and The Good Wife, whose final season aired this season on CBS. In fact, both shows were shut out of all the major races (though The Good Wife has a couple of nods in the guest actor/actress races). That’s especially tough for OITNB, which not only has one of the best and most diverse casts on TV, but has usually gotten a number of nominations across the categories, including two-time winner Uzo Aduba. Downton Abbey, also in its final year, got a nomination for previous winner Maggie Smith (maybe she’ll show up this year?) but for no one else, a rarity for the show and our beloved Lady Edith’s last time to shine. Mr Robot's Rami Malek: 'The world is in chaos – and all we do is hyperconsume' Mr Robot’s Rami Malek might be an early favorite for the lead actor in a drama award, considering nearly all of his competition have been also-rans before and last year’s winner, Jon Hamm, is no longer eligible. Aside from Rhys, who is another newcomer in the race, Bloodline’s Kyle Chandler, Better Call Saul’s Bob Odenkirk, Ray Donovan’s Liev Schrieber, and House of Cards’ Kevin Spacey have all lost at least once.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   House of Cards cleaned up in the acting categories. Photograph: Netflix/Everett/Rex/ShutterstockWhile Spacey can never manage to win for House of Cards, it actually cleaned up in the acting categories, especially for guest stars who scored five out of the 12 possible nominations. Michael Kelly is nominated in the supporting category and Robin Wright is nominated once again for outstanding lead actress, but she squares off against two former winners: Homeland’s Claire Danes and How to Get Away with Murder’s Viola Davis, as well as Empire’s Taraji P Henson, Orphan Black’s Tatiana Maslany, and newcomer Russell of The Americans. Game of Thrones is once again a frontrunner, taking home a whole slew of slots in the supporting categories not only for former winner Peter Dinklage and previous nominees Lena Headey and Emilia Clark, but new nominees Kit Harrington and Maisie Williams, who play Jon Snow and Arya Stark, respectively. My favorite inclusion in the supporting category, however, is Constance Zimmer, whose sharp-tongued Quinn on UnREAL is the outstanding Lifetime series’ only high-profile nomination. Maura Tierney, who won the Golden Globe for her turn on The Affair and is consistently the best thing about the Showtime show, is also in the running for the first time.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Shiri Appleby and Constance Zimmer in UnREAL. Photograph: Courtes/Rex ShutterstockThings are a little bit fresher in the Outstanding Comedy race. Last year’s winner Veep joins the aforementioned Black-ish and Master of None, as well as perennials Modern Family, Transparent, Silicon Valley and Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt. Many hoped that the little watched but excellent Crazy Ex-Girlfriend would break into the category, but those hopes were dashed. However, its song Settle For Me is up for outstanding original song, so I guess it will have to settle for that. Girls, which had been a mainstay in the category before falling out, couldn’t recoup with its return to form in season five. Both Girls and Crazy Ex-Girlfriend were also shut out for their creator/stars Lena Dunham and Rachel Bloom, and that is with a big turnover in the category. The open spots went to Black-ish’s Ellis Ross, Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt’s Ellie Kemper who was snubbed last year, and surprisingly Laurie Metcalf of HBO’s under the radar and cancelled Getting On. Metcalf, who won three Emmys for Roseanne in the 90s, is the most nominated actress this year. She has two other shots this year as a guest Actress in a Drama on Louis CK’s web series Horace and Pete and Guest Actress in a Comedy for The Big Bang Theory. Inside Amy Schumer’s Amy Schumer and Grace and Frankie’s Lily Tomlin are nominated again this year, but it doesn’t matter because they’re all going to lose to Veep’s Julia Louis-Dreyfus anyway.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alex Borstein, left, and Laurie Metcalf in Getting On: Metcalf is the most nominated actor at this year’s Emmys. Photograph: Lacey Terrell/APChances are looking good this year for Silicon Valley, however, which scored its first acting nomination even though it had been nominated for outstanding comedy for its first two seasons. Thomas Middleditch joins the race for lead actor along with first-time nominee Master of None’s Aziz Ansari, last year’s winner Transparent’s Jeffrey Tambor and other holdovers Black-ish’s Anthony Anderson, Last Man on Earth’s Will Forte, and Shameless’s William H Macy. One of the best races this year is the supporting actor in a comedy which features Baskets’ Louie Anderson for his role as a woman as well as Key and Peele’s Keegan-Michael Key who got nominated but not Jordan Peele. How can you have a Key but not the Peele, people? Speaking of competition, both Veep’s Tony Hale and Matt Walsh will go head to head for the first time, though Hale has won twice. Ty Burrell is the only actor from Modern Family to get a nod this year when they used to run deep in both the actor and actress categories. Its dominance has officially come to an end. Transparent’s Gaby Hoffman and Judith Light are both up against each other in the supporting actress category. It’s like the Hunger Games!      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kirsten Dunst as Peggy Blumquist and Jesse Plemons as Ed Blumquist in Fargo: set to lose to The People v OJ Simpson. Photograph: Chris Large/FXNaturally the limited series category doesn’t have much holdover, but in the age of the anthology series, that was starting to change. This year is the first in American Horror Story’s existence that it didn’t score a nod in the big race. The only return nominee was American Crime. Fargo, which won in 2014, is back for season two, but faces stiff competition from the favorite People v OJ Simpson as well as the truly stellar Roots and The Night Manager. But, let’s face it, OJ is taking all of the awards home and with nominations for Sarah Paulson, Courtney B Vance, Cuba Gooding Jr, Sterling K Brown, David Schwimmer, John Travolta, they’re pretty set to sweep. That’s a shame for Fargo, which had an even better second season and truly amazing performances by Kirsten Dunst, Jesse Plemons, Jean Smart and Bokeem Woodbine, though I’m surprised Patrick Wilson and Ted Danson also didn’t get recognition.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The People v OJ Simpson: American Crime Story is set to sweep the Emmys. Photograph: FXSadly, because of those two big shows, American Crime might be overlooked again, but don’t count out supporting actress nominee Regina King who took the gold last year and could again but she’s up against Fargo’s Smart and The Night Manager’s Olivia Coleman, so it could be tough. The Academy missed out on a great chance to get some diversity in the variety talk series category when it could have given Full Frontal with Samantha Bee its first nomination, but it didn’t. It also overlooked Trevor Noah’s The Daily Show, a huge blow considering it was the usual favorite in the category before The Colbert Report stole its thunder. So, who did they nominate? A bunch of white dudes, of course, including Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee (hosted by Jerry Seinfeld), Jimmy Kimmel Live, Last Week Tonight with John Oliver, The Late Late Show with James Corden, Real Time with Bill Maher and The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   RuPaul: finally Emmy-approved. Photograph: Press Image/PR company handoutThe UK’s (least?) favorite son Corden also has another shot to win in the Outstanding Variety Special category for the Carpool Karaoke Primetime Special. Take that, haters! However he’s up against an Amy Schumer comedy special, Beyoncé’s Lemonade, and Adele Live in New York City, so his chances are looking slim. Finally, some congratulations are in order for American Ninja Warrior, the only new nominee in the Outstanding Reality-Competition Program, and RuPaul Charles, who got the first ever nomination for RuPaul’s Drag Race, truly the best reality show on television. It’s harder than ever to get up there on the big stage, so it’s great when someone like Ru finally gets the recognition that she (or he? Does it matter?) deserves. • This article was updated on 14 July to remove a reference to James Corden’s weight.