The Lollies book award is a celebration of the funniest new children’s books (the LOL stands for Laugh Out Loud!).Michael Rosen, head judge for the Lollies shortlist, told us: “funny books never win the awards… even though they have as important a role to play as the wonderful serious books. I’m over the moon that it was possible to revive a funny books award!” The Lollies fill the gap left from the closure of the Roald Dahl prize which closed in 2013.Joining Michael Rosen on the Lollies panel are comedian Jenny Eclair, film–producer Will Clark and Youtube sensation Amy Lee (or Amy Lee33). Together they selected the four shortlisted books in each category.The winners will be decided by children’s votes– so get ready to vote for your favourite!Scholastic launched the award following their Kids and Family Reading Report, which revealed that the majority of children choose funny books over any other genre. Comedian and judge Jenny Eclair said: “I think children like to see justice prevail and if that can be done with some decent jokes then so much the better”. While Michael Rosen adds “if you put funny books centre–stage, you remind adults that reading for pleasure needs to be there”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Do you like books that make you fall on the floor laughing?So how did the panel choose the shortlisted books? Michael Rosen told us: “I said to the panel it’s got to have laughs all the way through, it’s not good enough for the books to just be funny in certain parts.” Jenny added: “I was looking for original voices, for something I hadn’t seen or heard before”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This time, you hold the power to decide on the winners, so you’d better get reading…Best Laugh Out Loud picture book:Hoot Owl, Master of Disguise by Sean Taylor and Jean Jullien – watch a Trailer Blazer hereSlug Needs a Hug by Jeanne Willis and Tony RossGracie Grabbit and the Tiger by Helen StephensI Need a Wee! by Sue Hendra and Paul LinnetBest Laugh Out Loud book for 6-8 year olds:Badly Drawn Beth by Jem Packer and Duncan McCoshan – see a gallery hereWilf the Mighty Worrior: Saves the World by Georgia Pritchett and Jamie Littler – read a review by agirlbee, read a top 10 by Georgia PritchettThe Jolley–Rogers and the Cave of Doom by Jonny Duddle. Jonny is also the illustrator for the new Harry Potter editions, check out some gifs of how he made them hereThorfinn the Nicest Viking and the Awful Invasion by David MacPhail and Richard Morgan      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Best Laugh Out Loud book for 9-13 year olds:Danger is Still Everywhere: Beware of the Dog by David O’Doherty and Chris Judge – read a top 10 by David O’Doherty and see Chris Judge’s How to DrawPetunia Perry and the Curse of the Ugly Pigeon by Pamela Butchart and Gemma Correll – read a top 10 by Pamela Butchart and find out about Pamela’s inspirationEmily Sparkes and the Friendship Fiasco by Ruth FitzgeraldThe Parent Agency by David Baddiel and Jim Field – read a review by BookiecookieSo how do you vote? It needs to be via your school and all schools to get involved in the voting process – a class vote can be submitted on the Lollies website from 11 February, in all categories. We strongly encourage everyone to get involved and spread the word!Voting closes on the 10 June 2016 and the winner from each category will be announced at the beginning of July. We’ll be reporting on the winner so watch this space! Congratulations to everyone shortlisted for this award.Make sure you get voting for your favourites! How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? Want to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!