‘That’s nice. Was it a Christmas present?” I asked my friend’s five-year-old son. He was sitting on the floor of her living room surrounded by Lego, putting the finishing touches to a carefully created scene. At its centre was the Eiffel Tower, part of a Lego set from Santa. Around the tower he was arranging figures from other sets. Most are lying on the ground, some missing heads (not unusual for Lego), others doubled up, as if in pain, and at the centre a figure I recognised brandishing a gun. It was the robber from the Lego bank robbery set. I asked if this was a robbery.“No,” the boy replied. “It’s the Paris shootings.”November’s Paris attacks may be eight months behind us but, in the wake of the latest attack in Nice and the atrocities at Istanbul’s Ataturk airport, the Brussels Metro and Orlando’s Pulse nightclub, the threat of terrorism looms large enough to have entered very young children’s consciousness. But how does this affect them? Should we try to protect them from the realities of the world or let them deal with it in their own way?This is not the first time I have seen scenes from the news reenacted on a living room floor with toy bricks. Like just about everyone else in the world, in the week after 11 September 2001, I watched the plane assaults on the twin towers of the World Trade Center – repeatedly on the news. Thereafter, I watched my daughter build replica towers in Lego and then knock them down with a makeshift multicoloured brick-block aeroplane.Initially, I worried about the impact the tragedy and the pictures she had seen were having but then I realised she was only doing what children have always done – expressing her feelings about what was going on in the world through play.“Because cognitive ability is often ahead of language development, children typically share their experiences and cope with associated feelings through indirect methods of communication, such as art and play,” says Brian McCarty, an American photographer whose project War-Toys is a work-in-progress photo essay that seeks to explore war from the perspective of children living in its day-to-day reality.“The inherent desire to create – whether on paper or in scenarios with toys – is universal to us all. For this reason, play is an invaluable tool for communication. Children learn how to process complicated feelings through a playful filter and explore tough questions in a language that is easier for them to understand.”McCarty has worked alongside art therapists with children from Iraq, Gaza, Syria and Lebanon who have been affected by conflict. In effect, they become art directors for his photographs, using locally found toys, placed and posed in actual locations to recreate shared fears and witnessed events. Through this process they have shared accounts of barrel bombs destroying schools, soldiers shooting children and even the torture and likely rape of young girls, a process that McCarty stresses is only the very start of dealing with some of the traumas these children have experienced as a result.Of course the impact of the images that children in the west see daily, especially since the advent of social media, are nothing compared with the reality of living through war. Yet, for both sets of youngsters, play is a way of expressing feelings about and trying to make sense of what goes on in the wider world.As a child I remember happily building nuclear fallout shelters behind the sofa, with the aid of a rug and couple of coffee tables, then retreating to eat biscuits until I judged it safe to come out. I later moved on to “spying” and ridding the world of the nuclear threat by stealing the Russians’ “nuclear capability”. It all made life feel a little safer.And while the world and the threats it poses may change, children everywhere continue to try to solve its problems through imaginative games.My cousins’ sons, aged six and eight, involved themselves recently in what appeared to be an elaborate game of hide and seek. In fact, what they were doing turned out to be a self-styled game of “escape from Boko Haram”.“I’d talked to them about young boys being kidnapped and forced to serve as child soldiers, after we’d seen a report on the news,” their father said. “Their response was to work out a way in which if they ever found themselves in a similar situation, they would escape. So what could have been very frightening – the idea that gunmen might burst into the classroom and seize you at gunpoint – became something they found a way of rationalising.”“A lot of parents are anxious about their children watching the news and the impact it might have on them,” says Lynette Fry, an educational psychologist. “But they need to know what’s going on and find ways of exploring the issues and the dangers they perceive to be out there. In normal circumstances, role play helps children put things in perspective.”I banned my son from having toy guns Where I live, toy weapons are banned from playgrounds and toy boxes, and the only boys I know who regularly play soldiers transport their arsenal of weapons in wheeled suitcases, lest other parents begin tutting disapproval.Parents, more often than not, fear that violent games will lead to violent behaviour, and yet this anxiety is relatively new. Children have played at war for as long as adults have waged it: from stick-fashioned-swords to board games such as Risk or computer-simulated action ones. Play provides a way to explore the darker side of humanity without children behaving badly themselves and forces them to explore the consequences of their actions.While there is some evidence to show that computer games such as Call of Duty are associated with an increase in aggressive behaviour, there is little to link mock playground battles with violent behaviour outside of it.Indeed, it struck me as I sat around the dinner table one evening with a bunch of adults intent on, vociferously, trying to put the world to rights, that these playground battles are merely a different, arguably slightly less evolved way, of doing the same thing. Grownups weigh in with our opinions and assertions, kids take imaginary sides and explore the various outcomes through play.Even in war zones, children still play war games. In East Jerusalem, McCarty noticed that the most popular toys on the market were plastic toy guns. “Sadly, to many of them, guns and violence are everyday things and war factors heavily into play. However, the ones who have witnessed more than the casual violence happening around them tend to view it as something their toys need protection from rather than something they want to actively engage them in.”According to Fry, the repetitive patterns that children display while they are playing often bring about developments that bring about some sort of resolution or more positive outcome. This rang true for my friend’s son with his Parisian Lego scene. By the time his mother and I had finished having coffee, the scene had evolved several times over. After the initial carnage, fire crews and Lego ambulance crew were called to the scene and eventually Star Wars special fighters flown in to rescue the victims and whisk them off to another planet where “everything will be OK”.He had found a solution to the terrorist threat – an impractical one, perhaps, but an imaginative one that seemed to provide him with the reassurance he needed that his world was still safe and secure.As Albert Einstein once said: “Imagination is more important than knowledge. For knowledge is limited to all we now know and understand, while imagination embraces the entire world, and all there ever will be to know and understand.”