Snapshot: Mum and Dad’s 1954 engagement in NZThis picture was taken in 1954, at my parents’ engagement party in Hamilton, New Zealand. My dad, Michael McKeand, and my mum, Ruth Unwin, both 19, had been in New Zealand for just two years through the £10 pom scheme, set up after the second world war to encourage Brits to emigrate to NZ. They were there because in 1952 Ruth’s family left Liverpool to start a new life at the other side of the world.Ruth had met Michael the previous year in Liverpool. He was getting off a train with his racing bicycle (he was a club cyclist) as she got on with a friend of his. They chatted briefly and parted but, instead of cycling home, my dad belted down the road to the next station, swanned on to the train and, remembering that all’s fair in love and war, joined his pal and the pretty stranger. Not long afterwards, he proposed on Hilbre Island, Wirral, close to where they both lived. She accepted.After a poignant farewell at the Liverpool docks, Michael set about saving money as a tailor’s clerk in the city before setting sail in 1953 to join Ruth and her family. He was just 17 when he arrived at the Unwins’ home with a single suitcase and, naturally, his bicycle.Under the £10 scheme, Michael served his brief national service before being assigned a job in a wool factory, followed by a butter factory. But, armed with his prize for writing from Birkenhead school, he applied for a job on the Otago Daily Times. This started his lifetime career in journalism, ending in Fleet Street as a subeditor.After marrying in 1955, Michael and Ruth spent five more years in NZ – during which time my brothers, John and Nigel, were born – before moving to Sydney, Australia, in 1960. He had landed a job there working for a young Rupert Murdoch. I was born there in 1964. Then, after 16 years away, my parents set sail with their young family to the UK, and on a cold February day in 1968 docked at Southampton. My dad’s brother and his wife met us off the boat. Having been kitted out in coats and jumpers (we didn’t own any!) we started a new life in the UK.Michael and Ruth have just celebrated their 61st wedding anniversary, have 11 adoring grandchildren, are still making each other laugh, and are as much in love as they were the day this photo was taken all those years ago.Jennifer SmithPlaylist: When my cosy family world was rockedGet Down by Gilbert O’Sullivan“Told you once before / And I won’t tell you no more / Get down, get down, get down.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Family car journeys to visit relatives could so easily become tedious affairs, especially once the obligatory I-Spy session reached its natural conclusion. That’s when my younger sister Catherine and I would often resort to singing the latest hits to help the time pass quicker. There was no car radio or cassette player in our Ford Escort, so it was usually a reprise of what we’d heard on the latest Top of the Pops.Dad’s parents lived in Southampton, requiring a 100-mile trip from our home in Essex. Dad was more into classical music, Mum more the musicals, but I like to think they tolerated the mini-concert emanating from the back seat. It was a great year for child-friendly glam rock in 1973, but the song that transports me back to our Easter holiday trip to the south coast is Get Down by Gilbert O’Sullivan.At the age of 11, I wasn’t really a fan but at the time he was a regular fixture on TOTP and Get Down must have been No 1. The lyric also sounded appropriate to the occasion; it conjured up an image of parents who were getting irritated by the antics of children behind them.Memories of singing on that April day are particularly poignant. The next time we embarked on that route was for Dad to make arrangements for Nan’s funeral. Grandad couldn’t really cope with the big house on his own so he downsized to a flat too small to sleep us all. Therefore our belting out of Get Down and its ilk somewhere on the A3 signifies something special: a time before my cosy family world was rocked irrevocably.Mike SmithWe love to eat: Mum’s never-ending gingerbreadIngredientsInto a large pan, weigh out the following:8oz (225g) butter or margarine8oz (225) brown sugar4oz (110g) golden syrup4oz (110g) black treacle2 level tsp bicarbonate of sodaMelt over a low heat then sift in:12oz (340g) plain flour3 heaped tsp ground ginger1 heaped tsp cinnamon      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Never-ending gingerbreadMix thoroughly, then add two beaten eggs. Warm half a pint of milk and pour into a bowl on top of two level teaspoons of bicarbonate of soda. Add this to the mixture, stir well, then pour into a roasting tin and cook for about one hour and 15 minutes at 150C (gas mark 2).This was the cake of my childhood, rolled out by my mum for every bake sale, school fete and visiting relative. It is baked in a big roasting tin and makes so many pieces – one batch seems to last for ever, which was a shame as I hated the stuff. I guess it was too sophisticated for my preteen tastebuds, which preferred shoplifted Wham bars and cola Hubba Bubba.I remember going to my first Brownie camp, with a Tupperware tub loaded with giant ginger sticky squares. The Brown Owls and Snowy Owls swooped on it but us young Imps, Elves and Pixies eyed it with deep suspicion, like we would blue cheese. Still, I was glad I brought that tub to camp. A reminder of home, vacuum sealed.Lately, though, more than two decades on, I’ve quite fancied a slice. Delighted, Mum sent me a photo of her old handwritten recipe and I set about making some with my five-year-old son.It’s dead quick and easy, but looks worryingly sloppy when you pour it into the roasting tin (“It’s like a gingerbread lake, Mummy”). But fear not, it rises beautifully. Even the edges I burned have a satisfying treacle toffee crunch. I think it is best drowned in custard.Crucially, my son is a fan. But will he be so enthusiastic after the 95th batch?Kay HarrisonWe’d love to hear your storiesWe will pay £25 for every Letter to, Playlist, Snapshot or We Love to Eat we publish. Write to Family Life, The Guardian, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU or email family@theguardian.com. Please include your address and phone number.