The 1970s are issuing their siren song to the many American critics who loved David Mackenzie’s zippy crime thriller Hell or High Water, moving them to elegy and nostalgic regret: “They don’t make them like this any more – but they still can, and here’s the proof” (Boston Globe); “The sort of sweeping grandeur that today’s filmmakers rarely aspire to, let alone fulfill” (Wall St Journal); “Takes you places that you thought the big screen had forgotten” (St Louis Post-Dispatch), and perhaps more clear-headedly: “You’ve seen it all before, but hell, it’s worth seeing again.” (Time Out).   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a trailer for Hell or High WaterAnd it’s true, Hell or High Water does partake of virtues we associate more closely with movies of the 1970s: a mid-range budget and a crisp 140-minute runtime, a clever story that offers thrills and introspection in equal measure, and even a political dimension (the big enemy is a bank), plus solid character work from all the players. You could name a dozen 70s thrillers set in this west Texas/southeast-sun belt milieu alone – Bring Me the Head of Alfredo Garcia, Charley Varrick, Mister Majestyk, Rolling Thunder, Who’ll Stop the Rain. Hell or High Water’s David Mackenzie: ‘I look forward to the day people get sick of superheroes’ But Hell or High Water also resembles other, more recent movies in its veneration of a school of film-making that was as good as dead by the time Reagan was elected. Out of Sight was an early backward-looking pioneer, as was The Lookout, by the same screenwriter, Scott Frank. A Most Violent Year channelled the big-city melodramas of Sidney Lumet (Serpico, Prince of the City) while Killing Them Softly bore echoes of thrillers like Peter Yates’s The Friends of Eddie Coyle (also based on a novel by George M Higgins) and Ulu Grosbard’s Straight Time. Shane Black’s The Nice Guys is an open mash-poem to the movies of that era, from its Freebie and the Bean opening to its cheerfully amoral fadeout.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ryan Gosling and Russell Crowe in The Nice Guys. Photograph: Allstar/Silver PicturesThe difference is that the movies that inspired these younger directors, with their grit and texture and soul, were mostly backed by the major studios of 40 years ago, given mainstream nationwide releases, and by and large acquitted themselves well in the brute marketplace. Films by the new generation of film-makers either get arthouse releases and make arthouse money, or get wide releases and still make arthouse money. What has changed in the intervening years? What happened to studios that backed these movies, and the film-makers who made them? What about the people who starred in them? And where is the audience that watched them?   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a trailer for Charley VarrickA look at the actors’ faces then and now tells us a lot. Oscar Isaac, Brad Pitt, Chris Pine, George Clooney – all gorgeous, some annoyingly, even underminingly so. Now check the mugs of yesteryear: Gene Hackman (Night Moves, Cisco Pike, Prime Cut), Robert Duvall (The Outfit), Charles Bronson (Mister Majestyk), Joe Don Baker (Charley Varrick), George C Scott (Hardcore), and even, for God’s sake, Walter Matthau (Charley Varrick, The Taking of Pelham 123). Add the late-career periods of Robert Mitchum (The Friends of Eddie Coyle) and Lee Marvin (Point Blank, Prime Cut) and you have either the Mount Rushmore or the Murderers’ Row of crag-faced movie stars. And perhaps the emblematic face of the entire sub-genre I am delineating here was Warren Oates, snaggle-toothed, ill-shaven, sweaty, goofy-looking, and just magical on screen.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Warren Oates in Bring Me the Head of Alfredo Garcia, 1974. Photograph: Michael Ochs Archives/Getty ImagesThe titles I’m listing should make it clear I’m hewing away from the Official Version of the Hollywood Renaissance, the film-makers who were so cruelly swept away by the new post-Jaws/Star Wars economic dispensation. Yes, that all happened, but other film-makers were the bathwater thrown out with the baby when this kind of mid-budget film-making began to lose out to the tentpole mentality. A good number of the great movies of the 70s were autumnal, mature works by older directors at the end of long careers. These would include Don Siegel, who had started out doing montage work for Warners in the 1940s, and had worked steadily and memorably for two decades already. Likewise Robert Aldrich, one of the most prominent and successful directors of the period, and Siegel-protege Sam Peckinpah, who went from Hollywood pariah to household name and back in the last decade of his career. Richard Fleischer (Majestyk) and Sidney Lumet (The Anderson Tapes, Serpico) made occasional forays into the intelligent thriller genre between very different kinds of other movies, while younger journeymen like John Flynn (The Outfit, Rolling Thunder), Michael Ritchie (Prime Cut) and Joseph Sargent (The Taking of Pelham One Two Three) staked honourable places at the top table.By and large these actors and these directors (and inevitably in this era, we are talking about men) had done their fair share of living: some had seen the worst of the Depression and the second world war, or Korea; many came up the hard way from poor backgrounds and raw experiences; and that knowledge was deeply etched in the actors’ faces and performances and in the directors’ ways of shaping their stories. To put it no higher: Chris Pine, a very good actor, lacks that depth and sense of hinterland. And most film-makers today learned about whatever they know about life from films and film school, and from the three generations of film-makers who have passed through film schools since the movie brats in the 1960s.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Backdrop of conflict … National Guard troops in gas masks confront students at Kent State University, Ohio, protesting US policy in south-east Asia in 1970. Photograph: Time & Life Pictures/Getty Images In the 70s, America went through the greatest sustained period of intense self-scrutiny in its history And of course, it was the times, the 1970s. As the historian Rick Perlstein has noted, these were the years when the introspection and self-critical attitudes cultivated on the fringes in the 60s went mainstream and suburban. America, and Hollywood as well, went through the greatest sustained period of intense, 360-degree national self-scrutiny in their history. Just as every institution in the polity was examined for flaws and weak spots, so were genres in Hollywood, because they too were American institutions badly in need of a dose of revisionism. Throughout many of these movies one can detect – or feel – the looming recent disasters of Vietnam and Watergate, the racial upheavals of the 1960s, the burgeoning oil crisis and the end of the postwar economic boom. Sometimes it just takes the times to give a movie an extra dimension. Star Wars offered a whole new American creation myth … the hell with little pictures But America finally got tired of questioning itself after the two decades of violent, fast-forward historical tumult between 1960 and 1980. It didn’t want to hear Jimmy Carter examining his navel and speaking of “malaise”, and it didn’t want to feel bummed out at the movies, either. In this sense, Ronald Reagan and Star Wars came to Americans’ rescue hand-in-hand: Reagan offering a rose-tinted vision of picket fences, 10-cent gas and hard-working white folks; while Star Wars, one year after the bicentennial (itself a foretaste of Reagan), offered a whole new American creation myth for people who were bored with the old one. The studios got the message – after the movie brats had all had one massive flop apiece, culminating in Heaven’s Gate – and followed the money. They have never looked back.Marooned on the outgoing tide was the kind of mid-budget action and crime film that I’ve been talking about. For Hollywood, the onset of the home-video era in 1980 was like a second coming of the malevolent TV set in the early 1950s, and the remedy this time around wasn’t CinemaScope or 3D or Smell-O-Vision, it was just money, big budgets, nationwide simultaneous releases, marketing blitzes – and the hell with little pictures.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Aaron Paul and Bryan Cranston in Breaking Bad. Photograph: AMC/Everett/Rex/ShutterstockBut TV won in the end, which wasn’t all bad, because all the instincts and habits and ideas that these film-makers prized can now be detected in complex, intelligent, richly rewarding dramas like Breaking Bad (with its southwestern locale) and its spinoff Better Call Saul, in The Wire, The Sopranos, The Night Of and particularly the second (70s-set) season of Fargo.Although flickers of the tendency are evident in Hell or High Water and other retro-70s works, the reality is that this audience now prefers to savour its thrills at home, not at the movies.