My Headteacher is A Vampire Rat by Pamela ButchartReview by Alexsandra, aged 9This book is about four children who think that their teacher is a vampire. Then they think that he is a vampire bat and THEN they think he is a vampire rat. I really liked it because it was simply hilarious and I found it so easy to read. Anyone who likes easy, quick reads should read it; they should be about seven or older. It was fantastic. I give it 3.5 stars out of five.Dreaming the Bear by Mimi TheboReview by Alexsandra, aged 9This book is about a girl called Darcy and a very poorly bear. She feeds the bear all sorts of stuff but the bear has pneumonia. Will this change anything? I liked this book because some parts wove friendship into it. It was all about friendship. If you like books about daily lifestyle and you love bears you should read it! Maybe you need to be 8+. Four stars out of five.Big Nate Blasts Off by Lincoln PeirceReview by Chloe, aged 9A boy called Nate, Big Nate, gets a lot of detention when he is in school. After school he goes home and practices mud bowl (Frisbee) which his Dad invented! Nate (and another boy) like Ruby but Ruby likes Nate. The other boy is Nate’s enemy but at the end of the book they become friends (spoiler!). It was really funny and very interesting. Also it was very, very weird. I also liked the character of Dee Dee because she is friendly. People who are in Key Stage 1 or over will like this book. Also people who like funny books and cartoons. I give it 5/5.Spring According to Humphrey by Betty G. BirneyReview by Eva, aged 9This book is about a little hamster with a lot of friends. When two new tadpoles move into the classroom he is cross, he doesn’t think they should. I loved this book and am going to read the rest in the series. It was really fun and I just loved it. I think anyone up to the age of 50 would like this book as it is funny and cliff-hanging. I give it 5/5.Pax by Sara PennypackerReview by Ollie, aged 8This book is about a fox and a boy who are friends. The boy’s dad makes him get rid of the fox and it is really, really sad. I really liked it because it was a story that explains emotions. People who are 9+ might like it even though there are very sad parts.Alex Rider: Scorpia by Anthony HorrowitzReview by Finn, aged 10An MI6 agent has a mission to stop Scorpio, an evil group. He joins Scorpio for a bit and realises that it is wrong and that he must destroy it. Scorpio have an evil plan to kill children! It was my type of book because of all the action.This is just one of those books that you never know what is going to happen next. People aged 9 and upwards would love it and also people who like action. I give it 4.5/5.