Toby L: founder, Transgressive and Rockfeedback / creative director, LoveLive      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Blaenavon: huge Marseille fans Photograph: Steve Gullick/PREvery now and then you hear a new voice and little else seems to matter. Julia Jacklin’s is one such voice. Played to me last week by a good friend, the quality and timelessness are undeniable, reminding me of the first time I heard (and fell in love with the music of) Natalie Prass. Jacklin is making the epic schlep from Australia to Austin to play her first American shows, and chances are I’ll be trying to muscle into all of them.In a “post-Andrew WK resurgence” universe, band names like Partybaby are totally fine, somehow. Right? In any event, it’s a bit of a red herring: this California ensemble are far more complex and nuanced than their moniker might suggest, serving up an intoxicating blend of frazzled punk, lo-fi-that-magically-morphs-into-hi-fi, and impossibly infectious melodic refrains. It’s, put most simply, really exciting new pop music.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Partybaby: Totally fine, somehow.It’d be weird and disingenuous of me to not admit that one of the biggest highlights of SXSW is seeing one of your own young artists smash their debut US gigs for the first time, converting an audience and a curious industry in the process. Blaenavon are a band that we signed to Transgressive records officially last year, three whole years after meeting them (when they were still in school). Their blend of anthemic yet sensitive guitar-driven frenzies have never sounded more compelling than in recent live shows, and their soon-to-be-completed debut album with producer Jim Abbiss (Arctic Monkeys, Adele et al) is sounding like one of the biggest records I’ve ever had the pleasure of being a part of.Naomi Zeichner: editor-in-chief, the Fader      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   OBO The Baddest: Nigerian Afrobeats singer Davido. Photograph: Chinedu Okpara/Demotix/CorbisI’m really excited about Kamaiyah. She’s a rapper from Oakland, California, who’s set to release her debut mixtape right at the beginning of SXSW. Her sound is a sort of throwback to 90s/00s Bay Area hip-hop beats but she’s very much a contemporary kid. She has a really defined aesthetic that’s a hybrid of retro and now, with an interesting voice that we haven’t seen in a while: a female gangsta rapper. Although to call her a “gangsta rapper” is probably a little bit reductive – she just represents Oakland culture. She’s super-cool.Davido is one of our current Fader stars. He’s incredibly famous in Nigeria but has just signed with Sony to work on hitting an American audience. He was actually born in Atlanta, so he’s influenced by American rap music as well as traditional Nigerian music and contemporary Afrobeats. He had an incredible song last year with Meek Mill and he plans to collaborate with Future on his new album. He’s performed millions of shows, but I think this is his first time at SXSW.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Bibi Bourelly is a Def Jam signee with an incredible gravelly voice who’s already made a name for herself as a songwriter (she wrote Rihanna’s Bitch Better Have My Money). She grew up between Berlin and the US, so she’s a really interesting, worldly kid. Her style is a little bit bluesy – tough and soulful. But it’s not rap, which makes her an intriguing signing for Def Jam. I’m excited to see her perform live – I think she’s going to have a really strong show.Ben Gaffin: director of A&R, 4AD      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   BadBadNotGood. Photograph: PRBadBadNotGood are an incredible jazz-hop trio from Toronto. These early twentysomething virtuosos are one of the most exciting live groups out there, flipping the jazz idiom on its head and effortlessly blazing through genres including soul, funk, dub, bass music and more. They’ve already collaborated with folks like DOOM, Ghostface Killah and Frank Ocean; I was lucky enough to hear a sneak peek of their incredible collaboration with Future Islands’ Sam Herring from their forthcoming album. Don’t miss.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Methyl Ethel – Twilight.They’ve been saying grime is going to take over America for ages – I thought it was imminent when the Run the Road compilation dropped 10 years ago. Many MCs have come and gone since then and we still have not seen a grime act properly cross over, although Skepta could still happen if he follows up the big co-signs with some great tunes. Now we have another blistering heir apparent in Stormzy, but does he have the charisma and musicality to resonate with American youth? I’m looking forward to seeing for myself.Hailing from one of the most remote cities in the world (Perth, Australia) Methyl Ethel are 4AD’s newest signings. Singer Jake Webb’s wistful psychedelia gently nods to the greats – Byrne, Richman, Bowie – but with a modern kaleidoscopic twist. This will be their first SXSW, so try to find these friendly youngsters and buy them a beer. They continue touring the states after SXSW and land on British soil for the first time in May. Tunji Balogun: senior director of A&R, RCA      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anderson .Paak. Photograph: Publicity imageGoldLink is one of the most exciting new rappers to come around in a long while. He makes frenetic, soulful rap filtered through bouncy dance music, neo-soul references and electronic funk samples. He reminds me of Mos Def and Andre 3000. A very interesting new voice in hip-hop with a colorful and energetic live show.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Anderson .Paak is one of the most soulful and exciting songwriters and performers in music today. He’s been a potent musical force on the west coast hip-hop/soul scene for years, but after his star-making guest appearances on Dr Dre’s Compton album last year, he’s finally getting his chance to shine on a global stage. He just sold out a tour in Europe; and Malibu, the album he dropped earlier this year, will go down as one of the most acclaimed releases of 2016.Gallant is one the best vocalists I’ve heard in forever. He reminds me of Maxwell and Sam Smith. And he sounds better live than he does on his recordings.Bryan Johnson: director of artist services, Spotify      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Holly Macve performs at Brudenell Social Club. Photograph: Andrew Benge/RedfernsI first watched a 16-year-old Will Joseph Cook play back in 2013 on a dull Tuesday night in Hoxton. His charm and knack for songwriting shone through and captivated the room that evening. Recent tracks such as Message, Beach and Girls Like Me are equally bound to impress Austin in 2016.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Since making waves at last year’s SXSW, Ho99o9’s live performances have gone on to become near legendary. Fusing hip-hop and horror movies with east coast hardcore, expect a lively and raucous affair from this New Jersey twosome.Holly Macve has an incredible voice. I say this after only hearing two tracks. Check out the cover of Melanie’s We Don’t Know Where We’re Going. Soothing vocal tones over a melancholic arrangement. Holly makes her US debut at SXSW. Go and see her, I’ll be there.