I’m not sure my grooming regimen really counts as a regimen: it takes six minutes, and the hottest product I own is a Lynx Africa gift set left over from Christmas. I’m aware this kind of blokeish indolence is fast becoming passé. Male grooming is a multibillion-pound worldwide industry, and once-frivolous creams and lotions have broken into the mainstream. Under pressure to get with the times, I tried out a handful of grooming gadgets in the hope that they would make me look more like British model David Gandy.No!No! Hair Pro 5£199      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The No!No! Hair Pro comes with a warning not to apply the device to the nipples or genitals – this seems sensible. Its “Thermicon technology” pushes a pulse of energy into the root of each hair, not just singeing it off, but slowing down the growth of future hairs too. I started by targeting some unattractive fuzz on my upper back. The result was painless, though the smell of burnt back-hair was discouraging. I didn’t end up with the closest of shaves either: it only seemed to burn longer strands while ignoring everything else.Verdict: No!No!Thanks! – I’ll stick to razors for now.Smoothskin Permanent Hair Removal for Men£299      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Shaped like a sadistic alien space-Taser, Smoothskin’s technology also sends pulses of light through the skin, which are converted to heat energy to “disable” the follicles permanently, after the current hair falls out. The word that sprang to mind was “melanoma”, but the manual says it’s fine to use as long as you don’t already have skin cancer. Reassuring. So I started another assault on my spine, determined to destroy those hairs, and after a few weeks (I didn’t quite manage the recommended 12 weekly treatments) it seemed to work, more or less. Side-effects – all apparently normal – included tingling, itching, and missed hairs; though the latter is probably my fault for not yet perfecting my glide motion. There are skin tone sensors to adjust energy levels, and a “gentle mode” for sensitive skin.Verdict: You’ll really need to hate your hair to invest at this price, but it mostly does what it says on the packaging.Clarisonic Aria facial cleanser£93      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The company’s “sonic cleansing” technology involves a brush that vibrates at more than 300 movements per second, which it claims is more effective than manual wiping. The instructions are thus: wet your skin and the brush head with warm water, rub on some of the cleanser product and brush your face for two minutes. None of which was too demanding. It even makes a beeping noise as a prompt for you to stop massaging one bit of your face and move to the next, lest you overexfoliate. I didn’t notice any real difference between settings, but it left me feeling like one of those glowing models from a cosmetics ad: my skin was softer, smoother, more radiant.Verdict: If you asked me to use it again, I could face it.Babyliss Pro ItaliaBRAVA hairdryer£120      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I didn’t think a hairdryer could be cool until I unpacked the sleek and shiny Babyliss ItaliaBRAVA, engineered in partnership with Ferrari. Cool. The selling point here is the brushless engine, which uses magnets rather than the usual carbon brush motors. Babyliss claims that the brushless tech lasts for up to 10 times longer – up to 10,000 hours of barnet-blowing. Performance is consistent between the hot and cool temperature settings, blow-drying my relatively large mop in good time.Verdict: I’d recommend this to any longer-haired gent, even if the Ferrari gumpf is a load of hot air.Simplehuman 20cm sensor mirror£159.99      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The company trumpets its “tru-lux” light system, which uses LEDs and micro-reflectors around the mirror to simulate natural sunlight. Every individual blackhead, wrinkle and blemish is rendered in unflattering detail – and yikes, the state of my upper molars! I can’t say I enjoyed gazing into this unit – by which I mean it does its job well. The mirror’s precise curvature provides a full and undistorted view of the face in all its zoomed-in gruesomeness. There’s a USB cable to recharge the light, which lasts a reasonable month to five weeks. A motion sensor activates the LED when you move towards the glass. The stand is adjustable, and heavy enough to prevent unlucky breakages.Verdict: It’s all-round quality, on reflection.