Nell Frizzell: When it comes to bedtime, sex is the only acceptable alternative to sleepAs someone who does not and has never watched pornography (apart from one slightly odd encounter with Sylvester Stallone’s 1970 soft porn film The Party at Kitty and Stud’s, where the most striking things were the length of Stallone’s balls and the coordination of duvet cover, sofa cushions and wallpaper) sex and laptop screens inhabit very separate hemispheres of my brain.Oh sure, I’ve had a laptop in bed. One of the great delights of being freelance is that you can write about the joys of wild swimming from the comfort of your pyjamas. But watching telly instead of sex? I’m more likely to try to tattoo my own bum with one of those tiny Argos pens. In Argos.So the news from Cambridge University statistics professor David Spiegelhalter that the increase in TV streaming services has led to a drop in people having sex makes me, well, it makes me want to take to my bed. It also, as a side note, really makes me want to watch one of those National Survey of Sexual Attitudes and Lifestyles interviews taking place. Imagine the pauses. Imagine the furniture. Imagine the snacks.At least, I suppose, we’re watching television. It could be worse. Imagine if you walked into the bedroom, all gussied up for the kind of night that would make a strawberry blush, only to discover that your partner is writing an email. Or worse: they’ve just opened Excel. People have divorced for less.When it comes to bedtime (which in my house is any time after 7.30pm) sex is the only truly acceptable alternative to sleep. And yes, that also applies to those of us sleeping alone – mine is a DIY digital generation, after all. There may well be a new series of Game of Thrones. And it may well be great. But if winter is coming, then I want to first.Daisy Buchanan: Most of us haven’t been up all night since the finale of Breaking BadI went off the idea of tech in the bedroom a few years ago, when I was woken up by the sound of heavy breathing and unconvincing groaning. My then boyfriend was in the middle of an early morning RedTube session. It’s pretty startling to get an eyeful of strange, oiled flesh before you’ve had your first coffee – but what really stung was that he was using my laptop without asking!However, in retrospect it wasn’t so awful. At least someone was having sex in the bedroom, even if it was happening on a screen. Now that we’ve entered the Netflix era, most of us haven’t been up all night clutching the sheets in a sweaty frenzy since the series finale of Breaking Bad. My friends and I sometimes find ourselves banished to the bedroom, all alone, because our televisual taste clashes with our partner’s. One friend who would rather not be named admits: “We spend our evenings separately because he’s obsessed with crime dramas, and I prefer reality TV. I couldn’t tell you when we last made love, but it was before the last series of Made in Chelsea.”Because I write about TV, I’ve been able to set some boundaries. Laptop telly is strictly for business (or watching old episodes of Ab Fab on my lunch break). Also, my husband has installed a telly at the foot of the bed, just like in the olden days, so we don’t need to use devices. I think it might be saving our marriage. We still watch too much TV in bed, but at least we’re doing it together. Some nights there’s nothing on, and without being able to immediately access the whole of the internet, at least there’s a chance that we might make our own entertainment.Rupert Myers: We all know that the screen doesn’t provide real satisfactionSo the nation is abandoning Netflix and chill for Netflix until you fall asleep drooling onto the MacBook. Too many apparently prefer Breaking Bad to bonking, Littlefinger to the little death and House of Cards to the hibbety-dibbety. This needs to stop.Staring into the abyss of Facebook while RuPaul’s Drag Race buffers, thoughts of shellacking the kayak are too quickly replaced by stultifying memes about pulling out of the EU and whatever awful thing Donald Trump has said. This year is – by any estimation – odd. This explains the rise of video entertainment which allows us to bury our heads until the sweet release of sleep.The laptop promises both the depressing horror of the real world and the giddy escapism of the seven kingdoms. As good cop and bad cop, the computer provides us with the means to remain trapped in a cycle of grim news and silly distraction. Screens have become the portable walls people erect between each other in restaurants. Couples now sit staring at their phones, barely conscious of their partner’s existence.At home, computers deceive us into believing that we are coming together to watch box sets, when the act of passively staring at a rectangle’s worth of entertainment can leave us disconnected and emotionally drained. Reality, in 2016, is a challenging thing to focus on. We all know that screen doesn’t provide real satisfaction, just an easier, more attainable but ersatz replacement. This survey should be a wake-up call to anyone who needs to start living outside the rectangle. It’s time for them to realise the emotional drain of social media and the limits technology can place on true human happiness.Flic Everett: Bedroom drama reduces couples to Netflix-mates The old joke about couples with lots of children is “No telly?” But it seems there could be something in the theory after all. When there was nothing else to do in the bedroom, it’s not surprising everyone was at it like teenagers in a bus shelter. But now we have a 24-hour window on the world, who’d prioritise sex with the same old partner when they could be watching evil Frank Underwood head for the White House, or zombies march on New York?It seems perfectly reasonable that drama crafted by exquisitely talented writers, actors and directors, designed to grip from the outset, is proving a lot more compelling than a wearily familiar marital hand burrowing under the duvet.Sex with your long-term partner generally doesn’t involve cliffhangers, unless it’s “will we fall asleep before anyone has an orgasm?” whereas glossy drama raises viewers to the highest peaks of anticipation and arousal and keeps them awake till 4am, as a quick liaison with The Affair turns into a feverish all-nighter.But while our passion for iPad over thigh-pat is understandable, it isn’t doing much for intimacy. Of course, there’s the enjoyment of shared speculation (“How CAN they get the gun and get out before anyone sees them?”) but shared fornication is generally a more compelling route to togetherness. The basic problem with bedroom drama is, it reduces couples to Netflix-mates, cuddled under the duvet watching other people enjoy excitement and romance. Yes, that might be in short real-life supply with 20 years of marriage and three kids under your belts, but now and then, it’s a good idea to tune out and turn on, as Timothy Leary nearly said. Because sometimes an occasional burst of real-life passion can improve your square-eyed relationship – and help you to appreciate the ensuing fictional excitement all the more.