Born in Utah, Donny Osmond, 58, started performing with his siblings as a child. The song Puppy Love gave him his first UK number one, and went on to become a multimillion-selling hit worldwide. This year, he released his 60th album, The Soundtrack Of My Life, and marks 50 years in showbusiness with a UK tour that starts next January.When were you happiest?In 1971, I was sitting in a hotel room in London and there was a television chat show going on, debating whether Donny Osmond should be deported because of the chaos he was wreaking. And while I was watching this, there were fans on the street below, chanting my name. I was 13 and thought, “Does it get any better than this?”What is your greatest fear?Losing my voice.What was your most embarrassing moment?There’s a scene in Joseph, the musical, where Joseph is caught in Mrs Potiphar’s bedroom and Mrs Potiphar and the dancers chase him round the bed. I did this scene 2,000 times over six years and every time they tried to rip off my loin cloth. They never got it off me except for one show, in Salt Lake City, of all places; my neighbours and family were in the audience.Property aside, what’s the most expensive thing you’ve bought?My jet.What would your super power be?To be able to clone myself. I am a workaholic and there’s just not enough time in a day.What makes you unhappy?When people spell my name with an “ie”.What do you most dislike about your appearance?My smile. If you study it closely, it’s crooked – the centre of my teeth is not in the centre of my nose.Who would play you in the film of your life?Not Justin Bieber.What is your favourite word?“Zhuzh.” You get ready, you look in the mirror and you give yourself a final zhuzh.What did you want to be when you were growing up?That decision was made at five.Which book changed your life?The Book Of Mormon.What is your screensaver?Me and me: a photograph of me and my wax figure in Madame Tussauds in Las Vegas.What is the worst thing anyone’s said to you?Rolling Stone magazine said the worst day in history was the day Donny Osmond was born. That destroyed me as a teenager.What or who is the greatest love of your life?There was a girl I met in 1975… in fact, she was dating my brother Jay. Oh, wait a minute, I married her!Who would you invite to your dream dinner party?Elon Musk and the astrophysicist Dr Neil deGrasse Tyson.Which words or phrases do you most overuse?“Yeah, baby.” My wife says I am Austin Powers through and through.If you could edit your past, what would you change?Purple socks.When did you last cry, and why?Last Monday was a really emotional day for me: my last son graduated from high school and he’s going on a mission for the Mormon Church soon. I’ve already experienced it four times with my other sons: my oldest went to London, my second son to Italy, my third to Scotland and my fourth the Netherlands. They come back, but the little boy stays out there. He never comes back.How do you relax?I rent an earth-mover and dig holes in the huge property we have next door to our house. I revert to the childhood I didn’t have by playing with a tractor in a sandpit.How often do you have sex?It’s none of your business, but I will say I have a smile on my face all the time.Cerys Matthews: ‘What did I want to be when I was growing up? Bob Dylan’ What is the closest you’ve ever come to death?I almost walked into the rotor of a helicopter in the early 1980s. I was doing a performance at a stadium in Utah and made my entrance standing on the skids of a helicopter with fireworks going off. During rehearsals, we landed and I walked with my head down round the back of the helicopter. Everybody was screaming, “Stop!” but I couldn’t hear anything because of the noise of the helicopter. Some little voice in my head said, “Stop and look up.” I was 3ft away from the rotor.What do you consider your greatest achievement?Eight grandchildren, five sons and my one wife.What keeps you awake at night?A bad performance.What song would you like played at your funeral?Not Puppy Love.What is the most important lesson life has taught you?Don’t let anyone convince you that you can’t do something. 