Bryony Sadler perched on the edge of a bed in the holiday let that she and her family have found refuge in following a hasty and heartbreaking evacuation from their cherished home in the ruined village of Moorland, on the Somerset Levels, to watch the prime minister's press conference.Viewing conditions weren't ideal. Her two children wandered in, their granny poked her head around the door to ask if the tea should be put on, she had to take a phone call about a car. But Sadler saw enough to get the drift and was not wholly convinced."If other places close to London had not been flooded I don't think he'd even be doing this," she said. "We feel neglected. We've felt for months, for years nobody has listened to us. I do believe they are trying to listen now, finally. But I'm still not sure the right messages are getting through."Sadler is pleased that David Cameron has been out and around the UK, though he did not visit Moorland. "I know he's spoken to some good local people on the ground and they've put him in the picture. But I don't think he's being well-served by the silver and gold commands [the umbrella organisations including the emergency services, local authorities and other agencies] that he keeps going on about. I don't think they know what's going on out there."The Sadlers are a large clan. There is husband Gavin, children Toby, six, and Elsa, three, granny Julie. Plus a horse, two dogs, two rabbits, a guinea pig, five goldfish and 70 chickens.Upping and leaving Moorland a week ago when the waters inundated their historic rectory (which had never flooded before) was not an easy operation. They have squeezed into a holiday let on a farm across the sodden moors in Stoke St Gregory.Sadler, a hairdresser, tries to stay positive. "It's a bit squashed, a bit cramped, but we're dry and I'm not looking at water any more. But it's not home. I think it will be eight months, something like that, before we go home. The water at Moorland is still rising."We're frustrated. We've begged for help. We told them on 18 December to get the pumps going. They didn't take any notice and the inevitable happened. Now I'm without a home, a car and a life."Sadler shook her head as Cameron told the press conference that things could get worse before they got better. When he praised the emergency services she gave a deep sigh. Like many here, she is impressed by individual staff, but unimpressed by their commanders.She didn't think much of his assertion that hundreds of troops were ready to help. "They've done half a day here and there, filled a few sandbags, nothing more. Where are they now?"Sadler shook her head again when Cameron repeated the much-used statistic that enough water to fill Wembley Stadium three times was being pumped from the Levels each day. When the prime minister said money was no object, she muttered: "Too late."The press conference over, Sadler went off to make sure the children's tea was on. "It's like we're in a film or a terrible nightmare. I don't think anyone can know what it's like unless they live through it."