When I was a child, I had an intense fear of going to prison. I wasn’t on the run or anything – my crimes were small and they were all against fashion. But I had nightmares about accidentally killing someone, or being falsely accused. Ending up inside. Bang, leaden door slams. Nudity. No privacy. No parents. All the things that now turn me on.I didn’t watch TV in the 90s and early 00s. I was too busy trying to grow out a fringe and perm. So while I have peripheral awareness of such shows as Prisoner Cell Block H and Bad Girls, all I really know about them is that one was Australian. Prison remained a scary, bad place for tough, rough, sometimes Australian people. I had no interest in going. You couldn’t tempt me. Then, in 2013, a straight-haired, non-fringed woman called Piper Chapman got sent to Litchfield Penitentiary, and suddenly I’m desperately keen to go. Orange Is the New Black is the womanliest TV show that has ever existed. It doesn’t merely pass the Bechdel test, it gets all As and goes straight to Oxbridge, even though it’s only three years old. At Litchfield, women of every age, nationality and troubled background froth against and around each other – like an aggressive Zumba class you can’t escape from. And I wouldn’t want to.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Crazy Eyes mops up. Photograph: JoJo Whilden/NetflixEach episode combines two levels of story. We have the present day, inside cells and shower cubicles, watching what the guys are getting up to (looking for the mythical chicken that lives on the prison grounds, going down on each other, tricking a guard into thinking he’s the father of their baby). But the real zip of the show is in the past, the backstory. We learn how the incarcerated found themselves there (love, poverty, desperation). I’m tempted to compare OITNB, which returns to Netflix this week, to the novels of Émile Zola: just as the 19th-century Frenchman’s fiction explored how the twists and quirks of fate could lead the ordinary person to murder, OITNB reminds us that we are all only a few life decisions away from criminality; and that those decisions are driven by economic pressures, class, education and expectation.It is no coincidence that the gorgeously diverse casting of the show reflects the reality of prisons across the west. Ethnic minorities in the US and the UK are more likely to be imprisoned than rich, white me. Along with being very entertaining, OITNB subtly and consistently reminds us that the majority of criminals are created by inequality.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘So shocking we all had to take a day off school’ … the Brookside kiss.Do you remember the olden days when two pretty girls on Brookside had a snog and we all had to take a day off school from shock? If Beth Jordache’s lady lip-locking was one small step, then every episode of OITNB is a leap straight from Earth to the moon. I’m sure there have been televisual advances in the 21-year interim, but I never caught Sex and the City or The L Word because of that fringe. And now I can watch a TV programme that says clitoris. That finds comedy in a woman thinking she urinates from her vagina. That presents female sexuality in its entire dominating, powerful, gross, insecure, powerless, manipulative, manipulated, five-fingered spectrum. If James Joyce was the first to talk about characters going to the toilet, OITNB is the first to show you can make people orgasm there. Yes, I do have an English degree, thanks for asking.Perhaps this type of show could only have happened on a streaming service. Comedy on the BBC can be exemplary (new shows Mum and the super low-budget No Such Thing as the News are prime examples). But it never takes risks and often seems outdated because of it. Channel 4 comes closer – with Catastrophe and Chewing Gum showcasing 3D female characters and messy sexuality alongside sharp gag writing. But I wonder if the absence of people-pleasing politics creates something better? Netflix’s subscriber structure means it does not have to chase or satisfy advertisers. Although the same could be said of BBC, the licence fee is seen more as a tax than a subscription – and when Netflix produces a show I’m not interested in, I don’t rear up, frothing and affronted, as so many do when the BBC fails to satisfy every single one of our individual and idiosyncratic needs. With Netflix, we accept the democracy: not every show needs to be watched by everyone. And let’s face it, we don’t have time to watch everything. When will I sleep? I used to read and wash my hair. If TV gets any better, I’ll have to give up work.When I have my lovely fantasies about being a character in OITNB, I like to wonder what my backstory will be. Comedian, 35, has enough of online criticism and decides to track one troll down and make him eat his words. He chokes on the sheets of paper and almost dies. I plead guilty to attempted murder – almost too keen – and get sent down. Finally, here I am. Finding my true self, my resilient inner strength, and how great I am at lesbianism – all at the taxpayers’ expense. Prison is everything university wasn’t. Never release me.• The fourth series of Orange is the New Black is on Netflix from 17 June.