One does not have to go to Italy to see one of the finest of Michelangelo’s sculptures (Review of Michelangelo and Sebastiano, 14 March). Just visit London’s Victoria & Albert museum, which houses a copy of Michelangelo’s David in its cast department. As well as studying the sculpture in a room invariably bereft of other visitors, one can also view the statue from an upper floor and be almost face to face with David himself.Graham EvansSt Leonard’s-on-Sea, East Sussex• I can vouch for John Palmer’s experience of the Norwegian-Soviet cold war border (Letters, 15 March). I was Palmer’s predecessor as the Guardian’s Europe correspondent and was invited by the Norwegian government on a trip to the country’s border with the Soviet Union. There were many gaps in the fences and the guards assumed that whenever the alarms went off they were caused by reindeer, rather than spies. And every day at midday the Norwegian and Soviet border guards met for a glass of vodka, a far cry from the histrionics of Checkpoint Charlie.Richard Norton-TaylorLondon• Roll out your remnants (Letters, passim). Sprinkle with grated cheese. Repeat two or three times until no more cheese can be accommodated. Brush with milk, mark into strips, bake, then cut up into cheese straws. I can’t be the only person in the country who does this?Leila WardBath• I still have my Guardian apron (Letters, 13 March). But, more to the point, I have my beloved black Guardian sweatshirt (from the 90s?) with a map of the EU, highlighting, as far as I can make out from the faded fabric, 15 countries each bearing the name of its foremost newspaper, hence, triumphantly, the UK with “the Guardian” running down it. How about bringing back an enlarged version of that, er, while there is still time?Heather LloydGlasgow• How wise of you to reinstate listings for daytime television in G2 – just as Theresa May is about to trigger a vast expansion in its potential audience.John CranstonNorwich• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com•  Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters