When Elan Mastai was 26, his mother died. “I think about where I am right now in my life, and it’s hard to imagine it the way it is had my mother not died,” says the Canadian screenwriter, now 43. “I started writing because of that. I started going from wanting to be a writer to actually writing. The last gift my mother gave me was the awareness that I don’t have unlimited time. When you’re young, it’s very easy to be your own worst enemy. It’s very easy to create a lot of obstacles that keep you from going after the things you want to do. It’s very easy to convince yourself that if you don’t try you won’t fail. Losing my mom changed that for me.”Over the next decade, Mastai built a successful Hollywood career, with writing credits including Alone in the Dark, The Samaritan (released as Fury in the UK) and the Daniel Radcliffe-Zoe Kazan romcom What If. But in 2013, when he started thinking about a story where a man strands himself in an alternate reality, Mastai realised that it wouldn’t be a screenplay, but a novel – a revelation he describes as “a little bit intimidating”.Sitting in Penguin Random House’s imposing building on the Strand, Mastai has an air of confidence that suggests nothing would intimidate him for very long. After more than a decade in the film industry, he was ready for a new challenge. “I had never really written too much about that experience of losing my mom. I didn’t want to write some sort of grim and depressing memoir about it either … So on one level I was writing about my mother’s death, but I used time machines and flying cars to do it.”Landing Mastai an astronomical $1.25m (£1m) advance, All Our Wrong Todays is a mind-bending time-travel caper that follows Tom, a voyager from an alternate 21st century who is marooned in our contemporary world. As he casts a jaundiced eye over our drab reality, Tom tries to return to his own – but his journey has altered more than the advanced technology he’s grown used to. It has also changed the people he knew. Having fled a world in which his mother was recently killed and where he’s a perpetual disappointment to his domineering father, Tom arrives in our world to find a sister he never had, his father a changed man, and his mother still alive. The course of world history may have flipped – but the disorientation in his personal life feels just as acute.As the press tour for What If loomed, Mastai tapped out an opening for All Our Wrong Todays on his phone and found he’d discovered the novel’s voice. He carried on writing it on the road, snatching 15 minutes here and there between events, writing a couple of hundred words at a time. When he returned to his day job, he decided to “just squirrel away a little time to get the first draft done. And when it was done I felt like: ‘OK, this is not totally embarrassing. There’s something here.’”Freed from the constraints of cinema, Mastai found himself experimenting with purely literary effects: in one chapter the text runs backwards, while another is constructed entirely out of the words “shit” and “fuck”.“If I was going to write a book, I wanted it to do all the things that books can do, but you can’t do in any other form,” he says. “I wanted to embrace the form.” Now he’s signed a contract to write a screenplay of his book, Mastai admits his experimentation is proving to be a challenge. “On the very first meeting with the studio, I said: ‘These are the five big changes we need to make, and if I don’t say them, we’re going to be dancing around it.’ And I could see that everybody was … relieved. Not because they want to change it, but they also recognise that there are certain things that we just can’t do. I think they were concerned that I didn’t know that.”Mastai, now working on his second novel, likens screenwriting to playing football or wrestling – with writing a novel more like going for a swim: “You feel like you’re effortlessly gliding, but then you can also drown.” He enjoys the freedom being a novelist allows him compared with screenwriting, where he says his work is “filtered through multiple layers – you’re not getting a chance to express yourself cleanly and purely”.“As a writer that’s what you fundamentally want,” he says. “It doesn’t matter if you’re a screenwriter, a novelist, a journalist – with any kind of writing you’re trying to use words to express yourself as clearly and compellingly as possible. In screenwriting you’re stymied systemically. So that’s what’s rewarding for me: for better or for worse, however somebody interprets the book, I got to express myself as clearly as I could.”All Our Wrong Todays is published by Michael Joseph at £14.99 and is available from the Guardian Bookshop for £12.74, including free UK p&p.