It has already won multiple awards, brought in $100m at the box office and the soundtrack is set for the top of the US billboard charts. And now the hit film La La Land is likely, against the will of some of its devoted fans, to go on to Broadway and London’s West End as a live stage show.A contemporary Hollywood musical, which opened this weekend in British cinemas, La La Land follows the bumpy love story of a hopeful actress and a failing jazz pianist, played by Emma Stone and Ryan Gosling. The film has generated so much interest in the five weeks since its release in the US that investors are prepared to commit to developing a stage show.It is an extraordinarily speedy outcome for a film project once regarded as too risky when director and screenwriter Damien Chazelle approached producers in Los Angeles. While film musicals are no longer seen as the financial black holes they were two decades ago, it was a difficult proposition. When Chazelle first attempted to sell the idea, he was repeatedly disappointed. “It’s the typical Hollywood story — everything falls apart. Every time, I would curse myself and go, ‘Goddamn it,’” he has said.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Ryan Gosling on La La Land: ‘The world is quick to shame you for trying’Now Chazelle, 31, who made his name with Whiplash in 2014, has the kind of critical success on his hands that defines an era. The positive buzz began when the musical premiered at the Cannes film festival last spring. Last week it swept the board at the Golden Globes, with a record-breaking seven wins. It has also just earned 11 Bafta nominations. The Oscar nominations are out next week, but La La Land’s chances are good.Later today the soundtrack, written by Justin Hurwitz, is expected to reach the top five of the Billboard 200 albums chart, an appropriate reward for a film about a jazz musician defending a dying art form.La La Land does have critics, of course. Unusually for a crowdpleaser, its rare detractors have so far attacked it for being too “arty” or “knowing”, rather than too soppy. Writing in the Australian, Peter Craven has argued that La La Land is “just an unusually decadent example of the recent phenomenon of Oscar fodder: “serious” films made for the niche market that clings to drama and art, and which may produce masterpieces or drivel, but long ago ceded the middle ground to television.”For his part, Chazelle admits he has produced a homage to the past and not a recreation of the musicals of the 1940s and 50s. He was, he has said: “trying to call back certain things from the past that I felt had been lost and didn’t need to be lost. But also, really, the main goal was to try and update those things ....There’s things you can do with the camera, and things you can do with modern expectations today that you couldn’t do in the Fifties.”The director was influenced by Jacques Demy’s 1964 French musical Les Parapluies de Cherbourg, with its mix of grit and romance, but in some ways the mood of La La Land is closer to the glamour and banter of a film like the 1944 Gene Kelly classic Cover Girl, co-starring Rita Hayworth.The idea for La La Land dates back to Chazelle’s Harvard days when he and Hurwitz played in an indie pop band. Together they made a cheap black and white musical film, Guy and Madeline on a Park Bench, with a similar plot. Although Chazelle was later diverted by making Whiplash, he did not give up on the story.This weekend Lionsgate Motion Picture Group co-president Erik Feig told investors that the pathway to a live Broadway show was clear if chosen, although Gosling has indicated he would not be keen to appear. “If we want to do a stage show, we can do a stage show,” said Feig, adding: “We haven’t hit our full expansion.”Some fans balk at the idea, since part of the in-joke of La La Land is its modern “motion picture” incarnation of the stage musical format. It is a tension that was also there in the 1930s and 40s, when Hollywood plundered Broadway for hits. Much later the traffic started going back the other way, with films 42nd Street and Singin’ in the Rain becoming stage shows. More recently a conveyor belt process for transforming cinematic hits has established itself. Stage versions of the original films Ghost, Elf, Groundhog Day, Once and Kinky Boots are all recent arrivals, to say nothing of West End landmarks such as Billy Elliot, The Producers, Hairspray or The Lion King. A cautionary note is sounded though by the fate of the stage adaptation of Les Parapluies: a glinting gem of realism on screen, it lost its sparkle in the theatre.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  La La Land trailer: Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone star in musical movieWhile Gosling convincingly emerged from a crash course in jazz piano to star in La La Land, and his co-star John Legend had to learn to switch from piano to guitar for his role in the film, the leading actors in Chazelle’s film do not seem like the stars of a musical. They sing and dance more like normal people.As the critic Jason Solomons has said, much of the appeal of La La Land lies in the chemistry between Stone and Gosling. Just as Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers fitted together on screen, so these actors, who have appeared together twice before, in Crazy, Stupid, Love and Gangster Squad, are gaining team status. “They — for me — feel like the closest thing that we have to an old Hollywood couple, like Spencer Tracy and Katharine Hepburn, or Fred and Ginger, or Myrna Loy and Dick Powell,” Chazelle told Entertainment Weekly. “There’s something about the recurrence of Ryan and Emma as a couple and about them individually as actors and the way they register onscreen — the timeless glamour that they’re capable of.”