My kitchen is … lovely. It overlooks my garden and the vegetable patch. I have a very old olive tree and a very old fig tree. This was my mother’s house; I came to live here after she died. I have enough space always to have my huge chopping board out. I make my own bread and I have a home-based pickling business, so I need a functional kitchen. My Sicilian willow baskets are my one concession to beauty. At the moment one has beautiful duck eggs in it for making fresh pasta.My favourite kitchen tool is …  a set of handmade wooden spoons of various shapes and sizes. I bought them years ago in a market in the Veneto from a middle-aged man who sold beautiful cooking implements made from wood from his own trees. He was so engaging – a real artist. Olive wood is a wonderful material, so durable, and beautiful. It very seldom chips, and gets more mellow over the years.My store cupboard staple is … rice. That might sound very odd coming from a central Italian person, but since I started working in the Veneto it has been my comfort food. My favourite breakfast and afternoon treat is sticky rice with jam – I’m a jam maker, so I always have a well stocked jam shelf. Apple and sage is my current favourite.When I’m starving I … defrost one of the pots of hummus I always have in my freezer. Some falafel too, if I’m particularly hungry. Both freeze so well, which means I always have this happy meal at the ready. It’s my fast food. Obviously, I have rice and some veg from the garden with it. Luckily the weather here is good year round, so I am never lacking in salad.My culinary inspiration is … Anna Del Conte. When Gastronomy of Italy came out, I read it like the bible. It was such an eye-opener.My best-kept kitchen secret is … to get ahead. I always take a couple of days each month to fill my freezer with cookie dough, tomato sauce, stock, cooked beans ... I also ensure my larder is always well stocked. It makes everything easier.My current obsession is … curing pork. I have a very good friend in Wales who has taught me how to make my own pancetta and pigs cheeks. But I want to make sausages next.Everything tastes better with … olive oil. No doubt. A splash of good olive oil makes the world go round.When I go shopping … it’s a military excursion. I live in the countryside, in an area not well serviced by shops, so I can’t ever improvise. I go to one friend’s farm to buy chicken, meat from another, cheese from someone else – it’s all mapped out.For dinner tonight … I am making vignarola: peas, broad beans and artichokes stewed together with fresh, fat sweet onions, wine and olive oil. A wonderful springtime dish, delicious hot or cold. I have white wine chilling in the fridge, and the loaf of bread I made yesterday. My kind of heaven.Carla Tomasi is a pickler, preserver, biscuit-baker and cookery teacher based in Rome; @carla_tomasi