Sir Terry Wogan, who has died at the age of 77, owed much of his success to one stereotypical attribute of the Irish: a fluent and mellifluous delivery. But his enduring popularity was also underwritten by another quality found more often in his home country than most others: a love of language and literature.Sir Terry Wogan: tributes to BBC broadcaster dead aged 77 - latest updates He was a keen reader of Irish authors from James Joyce to William Trevor and, above all, Brian O’Nolan, the satirist and surrealist whose wild but jaunty tone Wogan knowingly adapted to the airwaves. Possessing a natural high intelligence – honed by education in Limerick and Dublin from Jesuit priests, the intellectual SAS of the Roman Catholic church – Wogan became one of the few presenters on radio music stations whose audiences routinely wanted the singers to shut up so that they could hear more of the host talking.His career-defining work came in two long stints on the Radio 2 breakfast show, from 1972-84 and then 1993-2009, the first after a rather ill-fitting spell at the newly formed Radio 1 in the late 60s. He had been recruited to the pop station following a short but high-profile Irish radio career that began after Wogan, having fulfilled his family’s wishes by becoming a bank clerk, answered a newspaper advert for an announcer. In his two occupations of the Radio 2 morning slot, Wogan memorably applied a vital lesson – the benefit of building up a stock of catchphrases and characters – learned from O’Nolan, who wrote novels, including At Swim-Two-Birds, under the name Flann O’Brien, and whose newspaper columns, under the byline Myles na gCopaleen, Wogan had read when growing up.So, for example, on air, Wogan’s wife, Helen, was always the “present Mrs Wogan” or, after he became Sir Terry in 2005, “the present Lady Wogan”, wryly implying an impermanence that was actually the opposite of their devoted 51-year marriage. Older listeners were “coffin dodgers”, while radio colleagues received nicknames; the announcer Alan Dedicoat becoming “Deadly Alancoat.” Sir Jimmy Young, for a long time a senior Radio 2 colleague, would feature, reportedly to his disgruntlement, in word-sketches featuring “the ancient broadcaster, trundling into the studio on his portable commode”. The final flourish in that riff was very O’Nolan.Sir Terry Wogan: king of inoffensive mockery and self-deprecation — obituary  If a supply of recyclable references had been a godsend for a newspaper columnist, it was perhaps even more so to a broadcaster with up to two and a half hours to fill five times a week. Wogan also understood, long before modern communications made this a standard part of broadcasting, what a valuable resource the audience could be. Drawing heavily from that old fashioned social media device, the postbag, he read out letters, stories and limericks – a deliberate nod to his beloved Irish birthplace – that not only provided a free script but created a sense of community with listeners who, in their latter years together, styled themselves “Terry’s Old Geezers and Gals” or Togs. Although sometimes considered cosy – and, in latter years, often admitted by commentators to that body of harmless charmers known as national treasures – Wogan had, in his personality and patter, an intriguingly subversive, even dirty streak. Among the ranks of the supposed treasures of the nation, he was perhaps closer in sensibility to Alan Bennett, who hates the tag, than to Dame Vera Lynn.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  From Blankety Blank to Wake Up With Wogan: Terry Wogan’s career in the spotlight A regular feature of his Radio 2 breakfast show in its second incarnation were the “Janet and John” stories, sent in by listeners, in which the children from the Ladybird books, now in adulthood, became involved in adventures that culminated in punchlines of eye-popping innuendo. If the same material had been read on air by Jonathan Ross or Russell Brand, investigations and suspensions might have followed, but Wogan, in another lesson from O’Brien, understood how gentle tone and persona can distract from bolder content. Another of his tricks in this direction was to leave the audience to supply the joke. During a brief fashion for celebrated women to wear the name of their husband on their T-shirts – so that Madonna might be seen sporting the word “Ritchie”, in honour of her spouse at the time – Wogan murmured between records one morning: “I’d fancy the wife of the present director general will not be doing that.” The BBC’s DG at the time was Greg Dyke.Sir Terry Wogan was a bridge between Ireland and Britain, taoiseach says In common with some of Wogan’s other on-air fantasies – including the “dance of the BBC virgins” that supposedly took place on the roof of Broadcasting House each morning – these gags may have benefited from occurring before the time when social groups could take instant collective offence at things said by presenters. His wit could be more openly wicked away from the microphone. Wogan once remarked in a BBC hospitality box at the Proms that he no longer played much golf because the rest of his foursome had all been arrested by Operation Yewtree. This was comic exaggeration, but he was deeply relieved by the complete exoneration of his friend Jimmy Tarbuck, and viscerally horrified by the revelations about Rolf Harris, another member of the Thameside showbiz set. Such sharp humour was most apparent on air in Wogan’s laconic television commentaries on the Eurovision Song Contest, which were reputed to have brought protests to the BBC from the broadcasters and even ambassadors of some of the countries whose competitors he skewered. He escaped discipline, though, because these voiceovers were another example of his clever use of found material. Most often, he was merely reciting, with a slight inflection of scepticism, the descriptions of the host nations or songs distributed by publicists. This critic’s gift, rare in a form of broadcasting where presenters tend more naturally to be optimists or publicists, was also on display, during his first run of Radio 2 mornings, in the acerbic demolitions of the American soap opera Dallas. They could be as sharp-eyed as the critiques of the same series that were making the name of Clive James, the Observer TV critic, at the same time.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Wogan was furious when one high-up suggested he might be ‘overdoing the sentimentality’ during his final breakfast show. Photograph: Leon Neal/AFP/Getty Images What radio crucially gave Wogan was time to digress and invent. One reason that his thrice-weekly BBC chatshow, screened from 1985-92, was regarded as a relative blot on his biography is that the short 35-minute format, generally with three guests, inevitably cramped his verbal imagination and flow. Also, by instinct an improviser, he struggled to adapt to scripts on Autocue and briefs written by producers, who would sometimes complain that he was busking his way through interviews. Revealingly, his best moments on that show depended on reaction rather than preparation, as when he warned David Icke, the former Coventry City goalkeeper who had unexpectedly declared himself to be the son of God, that the chortling audience was “laughing at you, not with you”. And, despite the tendency of the TV series to be regarded, to his annoyance, as a failure, no show in the BBC1 7pm slot has achieved equivalent ratings in the two decades since Wogan was axed. Having guessed the way the commission was going, he had asked to leave a year before it ended, but was begged to stay on. He subsequently learned that the extension was to allow the set of Eldorado, the soap opera planned as a replacement, to be completed in Spain.Sir Terry Wogan - a life in pictures  Although at heart a kind man, Wogan declared himself unable ever to forgive the BBC television executive, still a very prominent presence at the organisation, who truncated his career at the broadcaster and, Wogan believed, had been less than straight with him during the process of demotion. He always refused to name his nemesis publicly, less from kindness than from the survival instincts of a freelance. It has recently been reported that he was “too busy” to give evidence to Dame Janet Smith’s inquiry into his former Radio 1 colleague Jimmy Savile. And, while Wogan’s diary was often scarily packed, his elusiveness may also have owed something to his belief, genially passed on to younger broadcasters, that it was safer to keep well away from any matters involving BBC managers. True to this creed, on 18 December 2009, during his final Radio 2 breakfast show, Wogan intervened during a record to thin out the ranks of corporation bosses who had gathered behind the studio window to witness his last moments on air. He was also furious when one high-up suggested that he might be “overdoing the sentimentality” during that programme.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Chris Evans pays tribute to Terry Wogan: ‘He was my radio dad’ However, though distrustful of BBC bosses, Wogan was notably supportive, both on and off the record, of Chris Evans, who replaced him on the radio, and Graham Norton, who took over the Eurovision commentary on TV. It is often tough to be appreciative of a successor, but Wogan recognised worthy and appropriate replacements in Evans’s rapport with the audience and Norton’s facility with language. It helped that, with the single exception of his sacking from the chatshow, Wogan had the unusual luxury of always having chosen his own moment of departure from major shows. A benevolent mentor to many other broadcasters, Wogan would pass on pieces of wisdom including: “Television is about innovation, but radio is about repetition.” He meant this to explain why sound careers tended to be longer than screen ones, and it proved so in his case, with his post-chatshow return to Radio 2 leading to his finest work as a broadcaster. Despite this, his strong sense of professional pride led him – after BBC TV ended an exclusive television contract, restricting him to the charity telethon Children in Need and occasional documentaries about Ireland – to turn up on Channel 4 and Channel 5 in order to signal that the reduction in demand had been internal rather than external. But, though he expected Television Centre executives to get the point, he was careful not to be bitter in public about career reverses.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Wogan in 2013 with a collection of Pudsey Bears to be auctioned for Children in Need. Photograph: Sean Dempsey/PA Where he could become tetchy, both publicly and privately, was at any discussion of his hair. From relatively early on, fellow DJs would refer to him behind his back as “Terry Wig-On”, a tag that became public in the reviews of the TV critic Victor Lewis-Smith. Wogan had a prepared monologue for interviewers, along the lines of “If a man were to take steps in that direction, would he [gesture at the dark curve across his scalp] take these particular strides?”, which can be seen as a non-denial denial. However, in contrast to other odd coiffures such as Donald Trump’s, Wogan’s arrangements, whatever they were, did change shape and shade as he aged. He had a canny understanding of the mechanics of fame. When he was on BBC1 three times a week, and it was difficult for him to walk down a street or visit a restaurant without harassment, he became worried that his children were taking flak at school due to his fame. The advice he gave them – “Whatever they say about me, just agree with them” – was both practical and anti-egomaniacal in a way that was very him. Strikingly, the other broadcasters he most admired – including Alistair Cooke, John Arlott and John Cole – were often those who had a way with words on the page, and he always planned, with the time freed by giving up the daily Radio 2 show in exchange for a Sunday slot, to do more writing. Last October, a book of short stories, Those Were The Days, bitter-wistful for a lost Ireland, was added to his already heavy shelf of memoirs and anecdote collections that famous entertainers routinely produce.Terry Wogan: from son of an Irish grocer to legendary broadcaster  In November last year, Wogan withdrew at the last moment from hosting Children in Need, citing what was described as a “procedure on his back”. When he subsequently took leave from his Radio 2 Sunday show as well, there were ominous rumours in broadcasting of serious illness, but Wogan, always determined to protect his loved ones from the consequences of his recognition, chose to complete his life in total privacy. And so, for the Togs, this will be their Bowie moment. Wary of public shows of emotion, especially in broadcasting studios, Wogan had been determined to deliver the closing link of his final Radio 2 breakfast show in a manner that he characteristically described as “manful”. However, he had tellingly taken the precaution of making written notes for possibly the only time in his radio career and, reading from them, audibly broke down. The next broadcaster on air, Ken Bruce, left an appropriate pause before thanking Wogan and saying: “We will never see his like again.” Well, an equivalent may, perhaps, be seen, as he was a very good, rather than great, television presenter. Radio listeners, though, are unlikely ever to hear his like again. Although a lapsed Catholic, Wogan once expressed the hope that, when the time came, people might light a candle for him, a traditional way in the religion of remembering the dead.Millions will want to do so now, either literally or metaphorically, because Terry Wogan channelled his love of literature and Ireland and his innate good nature to become one of the most original and enjoyable talkers in the history of British broadcasting. This article was amended on 1 February 2016. It originally said Togs is the acronym for the community of listeners known as “Terry’s Old Geezers”. The community includes female listeners but the reference to this – “and Gals” – was omitted from the name.