Ugly House to Lovely House with George Clarke8pm, Channel 4The title leaves little to the imagination. This attempt to alleviate the (clearly) still debilitating shortage of property programmes sees architect George Clarke trying to find ways to tart up dowdy or dated properties. Here, Clarke addresses a grim, pebbledashed 1970s frump besmirching glorious Glamorgan countryside. With a budget of £60,000, Clarke hires architect Greg Blee to turn the house into something more sympathetic to its surroundings. Andrew MuellerDeath in Paradise9pm, BBC1Final visit to the Caribbean crime capital for the current series, but there’s no end-of-term gearshift downwards with holidaymaker-cum-hardcore reveller Sian seemingly killing herself on the eve of her return to Wales. With the body alone in a locked room and a pistol in the hand of the deceased, it’s surely a simple case for the Saint-Marie constabulary. However, the victim’s cohorts carry heavy baggage of the psychological and physical varieties, making this a weighty death for Humphrey to handle. Mark Gibbings-JonesSky Arts Failure season8pm, Sky ArtsA two-week season celebrating the importance of misfires and malfunctions to the creative process. First up Computer Says Show, a documentary looking at an experiment to see if a computer can create a successful musical. Surely it can’t come up with anything worse than We Will Rock You? It’s followed by Behold the Monkey, a comedy about the Spanish pensioner who botched her attempt to restore a fresco of Christ, and then a documentary on the same subject. Phil HarrisonJericho9pm, ITVITV’s period railroad drama winds up series one, with Annie (Jessica Raine) and Johnny’s (Hans Matheson) relationship out in the open, following the events of the trial. The quarry is now also a success, although the discovery of a cavern may change the fortunes of the viaduct. Meanwhile, there is peril just round the corner when a mineshaft collapses, trapping the Blackwood brothers. Clarke Peters’s Coates may be the only man equipped with the skills to save them. Ben ArnoldThe Great British Sex Survey10pm, Channel 4A post-watershed romp through the nation’s top 10 fetishes and kinks, based on a YouGov survey. It’s not for the faint-hearted, with interviews with ordinary people who get up to all sorts in the bedroom. Psychotherapist Philippa Perry and Belgian sexologist (that’s one hell of a job title) Goedele Liekens are on hand to offer a deeper understanding of the survey results and where desires come from. The overarching message is that there’s no such thing as normal, and Liekens is a straight-talking delight. Hannah VerdierThe Best of Bad TV: Prime Time Nightmares10pm, Channel 5A clip show’s talking heads are a window into its soul. This second series of cheerful barrel-scraping begins with primetime TV nightmares; your guides through small-screen landmarks such the talking dog on That’s Life and the fist-bitingly awkward reveals on Changing Rooms are perennial opinion-havers including Eamonn Holmes and Vanessa Feltz. A guilty pleasure at best, although these shows are fiendishly hard to turn off once you’ve chanced upon them. PHSleepy Hollow9pm, UniversalSeason three of the daft supernatural drama recommences, with 18th-century stuffed shirt Ichabod Crane (Tom Mison) adjusting to life in present-day Sleepy Hollow, a veritable hellmouth of demonic activity. The Headless Horseman has fallen by the wayside, so Ichabod and his FBI partner Abbie (Nicole Beharie) have a new nemesis: the Hidden One, a Sumerian god. But with Abbie MIA in another dimension, the series is robbed of its greatest asset: the sparky chemistry between Crane and his eye-rolling, badass foil. Graeme VirtueFilm ChoiceHellboy (Guillermo del Toro, 2004) 10.40pm, Film4The first eyeboggling outing for the do-gooding demon who’s at war with hordes of satanic bad guys. Adapted from Mike Mignola’s comic book, it’s a brilliantly imagined cross between traditional superhero fare and gory horror, while Ron Perlman brings an unexpected tenderness to the hulking, cigar-chomping, red-skinned imp with the filed-down horns that is Hellboy. Paul HowlettJules et Jim (François Truffaut, 1962) 11pm, Sky ArtsOne of Truffaut’s biggest hits, adapted from Henri-Pierre Roché’s novel about a joyful menage a trois overshadowed by the onset of the first world war. Austrian Jules (Oskar Werner) and Frenchman Jim (Henri Serre) both fall for Jeanne Moreau’s capricious Catherine, as their carefree days give way to a new fatalism. PHToday’s best live sportAustralian Rules Football: GWS Giants v Western BulldogsCoverage of the NAB Challenge match at the Manuka Oval in Canberra. 8am, BT Sport 2The Dubai Duty Free Tennis ChampionshipsMore from the Aviation Club Tennis Centre in Dubai. 11am, Sky Sports 2Europa League FootballLiverpool and Spurs are both in action tonight. 6pm, BT Sport 2Premier League DartsRound four from the Aberdeen Exhibition and Conference Centre. 7pm, Sky Sports 1