One of the UK's most distinctive landscapes has been left devastated after it was engulfed by floodwater which was then left to stagnate for weeks. Environmentalists fear that flora and fauna on Curry Moor and Hay Moor on the Somerset Levels may take years to recover while farmers have suffered losses running into hundreds of thousands of pounds.Many residents say the Environment Agency should have pumped water away from the moors sooner following the spring downpours and claim it is not doing enough to keep rivers and streams dredged or to find alternative ways to store floodwater.Natural England is sending teams to the levelsto try to help farmers cope with the aftermath of the flooding and to assess what damage has been done. A spokesman said the waters had left behind a "muddy, lifeless soil'' and described the flooding as "devastating for the farm businesses and systems on which so much of the special nature of the Somerset Levels relies''.Farmer Tony Jeanes, from North Curry, said he had to sell almost half of his 80-strong beef cattle herd because he had to keep them inside off the flooded pastures and could not afford to feed all his animals. ''The pastures are ruined but it is not just the farmers that are suffering. It is the birds, animals and plants,'' he said. "This is an important area for all kinds of creatures – reed warblers, ducks, newts, frogs and beetles.''Jeanes said residents had to put up with the smell of stagnating water and rotting vegetation throughout May and the start of June. Most of the water has finally gone but has left a "lifeless muddy mess".District councillor Gill Slattery took a smelly sample of soil to the local authority's offices to make sure fellow members realised what life had been like on the moors since the floods. Slattery said the EA had instituted an effective strategy to protect homes, but at the expense of farmers. "The farmer is the fall guy when the floods come,'' Slattery said.Some on the moors fear that global warming may mean more such spring and summer flooding. "People are anxious, frustrated, sad,'' said Slattery.The crisis began in late spring when grassland in a three-square-mile area of the two moors filled with water following the second wettest April recorded in Somerset. When the streams and rivers fill up the moors act as reservoirs and water is stored on them to prevent the towns of Taunton and Bridgwater from being flooded. Areas of the low-lying levels habitually flood in the winter but is the timing of this flooding, in spring and early summer, that has been so problematic.At the peak of the flooding 11m cubic metres of floodwater was being held on the moors, designated as sites of special scientific interest, to protect thousands of properties downstream. When the levels of the rivers Parrett and Tone started to fall, the EA began to pump the water from the moors. It says it removed most of the water in the first two weeks but getting rid of the final 500,000 cubic metres was "problematic'".The water had stagnated and the EA feared that if it pumped the water into the river Tone it could cause environmental damage and kill fish. It said it was performing a balancing act between trying to remove the floodwater and avoiding widespread damage to rivers.A spokesman accepted that around 60 farmers had lost spring grass, which means they cannot make hay or silage. He added: "This is a very difficult situation, where we need to balance the needs of people and the environment.'' The EA denies it is not doing enough to keep the rivers clear, insisting it is spending £20m annually dredging rivers in England and Wales. But the agency says that in many cases dredging does not reduce the risk of flooding because rivers quickly silt up again naturally.The National Farmers Union is taking legal advice to try to get compensation for the region's farmers but regional director Melanie Squires said they were having a "torrid time" making any headway with the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.