It was either in the teleprompter script or in the crawler along the bottom of the screen – probably the latter – that NBC News conveyed the following information: “Isis fighters are shaving bears and hiding in civilian homes to avoid airstrikes.” The reason I can’t be absolutely certain is that I read the line quoted somewhere in the blogosphere, where mistakes made by the traditional media are a constant source of glee. A satirical website with a staff of two young male deadbeats and a woman in a hat can thus rejoice in ridiculing a television outlet with a budget of millions.And so the shaved bears pass on into history. The day might come when some unusually clueless scientific group is inspired to publish a landmark paper about the shaved bears (“Climate change makes more bears lose hair, says new study”) but it’s more likely that the misprint will continue to be seen as a mistake. It’s the best that any writer can hope for: that the misprint will be flagrant enough to look like one, instead of subtly changing his meaning.Racked by this deadly combination of fear and hope, I spent weeks checking the proofs of my new Collected Poems, until finally I was sure that it was free of misprints throughout its hefty length. Then the first finished copies arrived. A box of them was too heavy to carry down the hall: I had to push it. Delighted with the way the book looked, I sat down to read it. There was a misprint, and it was plausible enough to derail the meaning of an entire poem. It didn’t make me burst into laughter, as shaved bears might have done. It made me feel that I was contemplating the ruins of 60 years of work.I spent the rest of a tormented day reminding myself that it was only a slight injury to one poem among hundreds; and that there was still time to insert an erratum slip into the books before they reached the reviewers and the shops; and that the world had not come to an end.Clive James: ‘Bob Geldof dropped the F-bomb in his show about Yeats’ By nightfall I was ready to face the sad but consoling truth. If the upside of being old and tired is that a little thing like a finch’s call sounds like heaven, the inevitable downside is that a little thing like a misprint looks like death. Getting things out of proportion is an occupational hazard for anyone whose occupation is over. Though I will try, working from home, to do any interviews that will help my new book, the day must soon come when I can no longer write one. Until then, though, there is this one. And tomorrow might be another day to shave my bear.