The renown of sports shoes long outlives that of the sports stars who made them famous. Sneakers – the ones that stick – become legendary in their own right and leave their first adopters far behind. Who really thinks of Fred Perry when they see a pair of Dunlop Green Flashes – which, incidentally, were much less green when Perry first wore them? Or of Chuck Taylor when they see a pair of Converse All Stars, ubiquitous 47 years after the basketball player’s death?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fred Perry winning Wimbledon in 1936, and his Dunlop Green Flashes. Composite: Wimbledon Museum/GettySurprisingly, this disassociation holds even when a shoe carries a star’s name, such as Stan Smiths, which have sold more than 40m pairs since their launch and are infinitely more recognisable than the American tennis player. (Now 69, Smith says that many people don’t realise he is a person, not a shoe.)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Designer Aaron Cooper drew on his work with a kung-fu master to create a shoe that offered greater support and stability for Serena Williams’s troublesome ankles: the Nike Court Flare. Composite: John Ly/Wimbledon Museum/GettyIn his book, Golden Kicks: The Shoes That Changed Sport, Jason Coles provides a correction to this uncoupling of sneakers from the stars who gave them life. Along with potted histories and anecdotes about each shoe’s greatest moments in action are pictures of the very models worn by their first owners.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nottinghamshire shoemakers JW Foster & Sons pioneered the use of spikes, initially on the cricket pitch. By 1898, these soft leather shoes had transferred to the running track. Harold Abrahams wore a pair to win gold at the 1924 Paris Olympics. Composite: Michael Quiet/GettyHere are Dick Fosbury’s Specials, handmade for him by Adidas’s Adi Dassler at a time when his high-jump flop technique was still frowned upon by the athletics establishment. You can see the stitches between the upper and the sole, the pressure points where the shoe had to give, the impressions of his toes in the puckered suede.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The US high jumper’s unorthodox ‘flop’ technique impressed Adidas founder Adi Dassler, who produced a prototype tailored to his jump style in time for the 1968 Mexico City Olympics. Composite: Adidas AG/Studio Waldeck/GettySome of these shoes have helped to shape style, some have revolutionised sport and some have done both. Stan Smiths, which thrive now precisely because they look so untechnical, were innovative when they first appeared in 1963, being made of leather when most tennis shoes were canvas.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   At the 1996 Atlanta Olympics, Michael Johnson took gold in the 200m and 400m – in his gold Nikes. Composite: John Ly/The Olympic Museum/GettyMichael Johnson’s gold Nike running spikes might communicate the sort of swagger for which the sprinter was known, but photographed here it is their suppleness that really strikes; each shoe weighs only 85g (3oz) and the soft wrinkles of the leather cave inwards, as if searching for Johnson’s feet. They really did help him to gold in the 1996 Olympics, but only after Nike’s technicians studied hours of footage of him running, as a result of which the left and right shoes differed to accommodate the distinct movement of each foot. Then, as now, sports design was all about the margins.In this context, the odd lo-fi shoe, such as the Asics slip of suede worn by US gymnast Kerri Strug the same year Johnson wore his gold Zytels, seems anachronistic.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   At the 1996 Atlanta Olympics, Kerri Strug, a 19-year-old from Tuscon, Arizona, clinched gold for the women’s team on her final move, despite an earlier fall. In crushing pain, she was carried to the podium by coach Béla Károlyi, still wearing her simple Asics gym shoes. Composite: John Ly/Olympic Museum Collection, GettyOther inclusions, such as Muhammad Ali’s boxing boots with swinging red tassels – bought and sewn on by the Adidas rep the night before a big fight – are amusingly idiosyncratic.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Muhammad Ali v Oscar Bonavena in 1970, and his Adidas Ali Shuffles. Composite: John Ly/Adidas AG/GettyAnd some are just a reminder of humbler times, long before Björn Borg’s signature seemed to appear on every sportswear item imaginable.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Björn Borg winning Wimbledon in 1980, and his Borg Diadoras. Composite: John Ly/Wimbledon Lawn Tennis Museum/GettyChuck Taylor, for instance, instigated several improvements to the performance of All Stars – greater flexibility, a heel patch for ankle support – but was paid a standard company salary. And Fosbury was so touched that Dassler had troubled to make him a pair of his own shoes that he declined payment.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The follow-up to Reebok’s best-selling Shaq Attaq shoe was intentionally eye-straining, prompting the basketball player to suggest: ‘Look at that shit long enough and you’ll be hypnotised.’ He wore the Shaqnosis throughout his final 1995-96 season with Orlando Magic. Composite: Reebok Archive/GettyGolden Kicks: The Shoes That Changed Sport by Jason Coles is published on 22 September (£16.99, Bloomsbury). To order a copy for £13.93 including free p&p, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846.