Nearly eight years since the launch of the Google Play store, have all the good app ideas been taken? Nope. Every month throws up a new crop of interesting, inventive and useful (or just fun) apps and games.Here’s our pick of the month for Android. Clicking or tapping on an app’s title will take you straight to the store, and prices are correct at the time of writing. If you see “IAP” that means the app uses in-app purchases.There’s a separate monthly roundup for iPhone and iPad apps, with the latest due to be published this week. You’ll be able to find it here.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Doctor Who: Comic CreatorAppsDoctor Who: Comic Creator (Free + IAP)Aimed at children, although Whovian parents will have a lot of fun with it too. This BBC app gets you creating digital comics starring various Doctors, companions and aliens, with a simple interface and a mix’n’match monster creation tool. Fun creative play for kids (of all ages).Miitomo (Free + IAP)Nintendo’s first official mobile app is here, although it’s less of a game and more of an avatar-based social app – focusing on the familiar Mii characters. Create a Mii, and send them off as a “social go-between” to friends with quizzes, mini-games and photo-editing built in. Quirky but intriguing. Already available in Japan, the link above will work elsewhere in the world today once Nintendo presses its global-launch button.Inside Abbey Road – Cardboard (Free)You’ll need a Google Cardboard virtual-reality headset for this app, which promises to take you inside London’s iconic Abbey Road studios. That includes a guided tour narrated by Giles Martin (son of the late George) as well as a chance to virtually poke around the mirrored drum room, and sit in on an orchestral recording session.Dragon Anywhere (Free + subscription)Newly available in the UK, this is Nuance’s dictation app which turns your speech into documents stored on the company’s servers, so you can access them from various devices. The app works well – although you’ll need a £14.99-a-month “Dragon Anywhere” subscription to use it after your first week.Deliveroo (Free)Another new-to-the-UK app, Deliveroo is one of the “on-demand” startups promising to deliver stuff to your door. In this case, food. You can use the app to order from hundreds of restaurants and takeaway joints, then track the driver as they bring it to you.Sky Kids (Free + Subscription)Launching today, this is Sky’s new app for children in the UK, bringing together shows from kids’ channels from Cartoon Network to CBeebies, with the promise of exclusive shows (new Morph episodes included) later in the year. A future update will also enable parents to set viewing-time limits.MailTime – The Email Messenger (Free)Struggling with your inbox? Join the club. MailTime is the latest app trying to help with email clutter – in this case, by making your inbox look more like a stream of chat messages. Photos, documents and voice messages are all supported. A clever idea, with potential for more development.Professor Astro Cat’s Solar System (£2.29)Based on a popular science book for children, this is a beautifully designed app which aims to get kids excited about space. It gets them exploring spaceships, planets and moons with clear text and fun, colourful characters. It’s never dry, but packs a surprising amount of information in.MuvaMoji by Amber Rose (£1.66)Model Amber Rose recently made the headlines for her revelations about her former partner Kanye West. Now she’s going head-to-head with his wife Kim Kardashian on the app stores with an emoji app. MuvaMoji includes hundreds to use in your messaging, including – a welcome step – a full section of LGBT-themed emoji.Remente (Free + IAP)The latest app in the flurry of mindfulness startups trying to help us improve ourselves and/or get a bit less stressed. Which can be a bit wishy-washy, but Remente takes a practical approach, encouraging you to set daily goals from exercise and education to remembering to call your family.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Clash Royale.GamesClash Royale (Free + IAP)Missing out on last month’s roundup by a matter of hours, Clash Royale has been taking the Android world by storm. It’s a cross between the card-battling and tower defence genres, as you collect and upgrade your warrior cards, and take on players around the world in short, sharp battles.Super Arc Light (£0.79)Billed as “Super Hexagon meets Geometry Wars”, that should give anyone who knows their mobile games a clue that this can be quite hard. That makes it a rewarding challenge for fans of minimalist shoot-‘em-ups though: this is twitch gaming at its finest on a mobile device.Operation Dracula (£2.54)That moment when you’re waiting for one frenetic shoot ‘em up to come along, then two turn up at once. Operation Dracula is more traditional: a shooter from the “bullet hell” sub-genre (note for newcomers: also quite hard) with retro graphics, bullets all over the shop, and huge just-one-more-go appeal.White Day (£4.99 + IAP)What a time to be alive if you’re a fan of mobile remakes of South Korean survival-horror PC games from 2001! But hold that snark, because White Day was well worth reviving. It’s a genuinely-creepy adventure set in a locked-up high school, with the emphasis on frights rather than gory killings.Rayman Classic (£3.99)Strange though it sounds, as Rayman has always been a popular console franchise, but the world has woken up to just how fun the platform series was. Rayman Classic is the perfect reminder: a mobile conversion of the 20 year-old side-scrolling adventure, which is as fun as ever.Total War Battles: Kingdom (Free + IAP)Key uses for smartphones in 2016: social networking, streaming music, raising armies to conquer the world while building a sprawling kingdom back home... Total War Battles: Kingdom looks a good addition to the military-strategy genre, with absorbing gameplay and the ability to play on your PC as well as mobile devices. Legacy Quest (Free + IAP)“Collect cubelets and craft epic, monster-slaying weapons and gear,” explains the app store listing for Nexon’s RPG, which has just gone global. If that sounds like Minecraft... Well, there are some similarities, but this is more of a traditional action-RPG game at heart, with crafting adding a neat extra touch.Faily Brakes (Free + IAP)Faily Brakes might sound like a four-wheeled Crossy Road rip-off, but thankfully it’s more interesting – and fun – than that. Viewed from behind your vehicle, the game sees you careering down a mountain dodging scenery, collecting coins, and marvelling at the slow-motion replays when you crash.Skyforce Unite! (Free + IAP)Japanese developer Kairosoft has made some of the most addictive strategy games available for smartphones, with Skyforce Unite! adding some welcome new ideas to its pixelly formula. The game has you monster-hunting, with light elements of card-battling added to the basic gameplay of developing your team.Dungeon Monsters (Free + IAP)Finally, another blast from the gaming past. Dungeon Monsters is a first-person dungeon crawler, which will give gamers of a certain age flashbacks to Dungeon Master, The Bard’s Tale and other genre classics. Not that this is entirely old-fashioned: its colourful graphics and fast-paced gameplay feel modern.That’s our pick of the new apps that the Google Play store had to offer this month, but what have you been enjoying? The comments section is open for your thoughts on the apps above, or your recommendations for new apps that we’ve missed.