While we can all do our part to be greener, the future of our planet will depend on the next generation. That's why the Guardian invited schoolchildren to a day of workshops and activities designed to encourage them to think more about sustainability and their impact on the environment.The event, held at London's King's Cross Skip Garden on Saturday 15 February, was part of a joint nationwide campaign launched by the Guardian and Unilever called the Live Better Challenge, which is introducing a series of tasks to help inspire and motivate individuals and families towards creating a better and more sustainable life.Huddled in the Skip Garden's pop-up yurt, a storyteller transported the students back to ancient India where a princess discovered how using the natural goodness of compost on her crops produced the best harvest. It was the beginning of a journey around the community garden which shed light on how the food and items we discard as waste can find new life elsewhere. Indeed, the entire garden, run by youth charity Global Generation, has been planted using recycled materials, from upturned skips to a polytunnel built with spare water pipes, scaffold netting and old planks.The first stop was an unassuming shed with a pungent aroma wafting from two large black cylinders. Lifting the lids of the containers revealed what initially appeared to be a pile of rotting food waste covered with a dirty scrap of carpet. But after the students were encouraged to dig a little deeper and investigate closer with a magnifying glass, the secret was revealed. Wriggling throughout the layers of the container were hundreds of tiny worms whose excretions help break down the waste into nutrient-rich compost for the nearby vegetable plot.While compost is an efficient use for food waste, the students learned that many of the ingredients we commonly throw away can be used to make a delicious meal. There's little in our cupboards which can't eaten – overly ripened bananas can be made into a sweet smoothie or delicious banana bread, unwanted pumpkin seeds can be toasted (they're a great source of fibre) and yesterday's leftovers can be made into a nutritious soup.Even the packaging can be used again with a little imagination. Using an old cardboard box, a plastic tube, some PVA glue and a handful of leaves, the students transformed unwanted everyday items into a caterpillar sculpture, among other works of art."I've learnt that you can make anything out of anything," explained 12-year-old Dillon Sandhu. The student at King Edward VI grammar school in Chelmsford, Essex, was so inspired by the day's activities, he vowed to become a green activist at his school.He said: "Because there aren't many recycling bins at school, people throw most things away. But if I see someone at school throwing a banana skin in the bin, I will ask them, 'Why don't you use that for something else? You could take it home and use it to make compost.'"A drama workshop back at the Guardian's Scott room cemented the message that human consumption has a limit and we need to reconsider our insatiable hunger for the planet's limited resources.Alex Rowson, from Regent high school in King's Cross, admitted it was the first time he had thought about these issues. The 12-year-old said: "I've learnt that behind everyday objects, from water to chairs, there's a massive story. Just drinking a bottle of water might impact a lot of people. And buying a chair from a shop means cutting down trees which affects the environment. Green issues affect everyone, not just yourself."Pete Bains, a maths teacher at Regent high school, believes it is hugely important to educate students about the environment and sustainability, and campaigns such as the Live Better Challenge are helping teachers achieve that aim.The Skip Garden, he adds, has also been a vital resource for the inner city school whose students ranked sustainability among the top four most important issues to consider when the school was being recently rebuilt.Bains claims the school wanted to be a model for sustainability and they work regularly with Global Generation to run a combined BTEC in business and sustainability."We think sustainability is a really important part of life," he explains. "Children should know about the environment and the impact it has on us. It's incredibly important to us."We have something called the green week where every curriculum area has to have lessons which are focused on environment and sustainability. We ran a summer school based on that theme, with literacy and numeracy lessons."Making a difference to the planet is not necessarily about grand gestures and chaining ourselves to trees. As activist and Guardian journalist Emma Howard pointed out to the students at the beginning of the day, simple everyday actions such as buying Fairtrade goods or recycling can be a real force for positive change."Who can change the world?" she asked the young eco warriors. "Us!" they belted back.