“I wish I was more presentable,” says Maxwell, packaged loosely in a denim jacket and jeans, in a top-floor room in a Manhattan hotel. “I’m post-Prince birthday cake.” The previous night, he was celebrating Prince’s birthday (the first since the pop star’s death in April), marking the life of someone whose work had been crucial to his own musical development. “A lot of what he did was why I felt: ‘Oh, I could be … maybe not like him, but I don’t have to be this cookie cutter …’” His voice trails off.Maxwell: blackSummers’ Night review – smooth 70s retro soul I had seen Maxwell perform just a few days after Prince’s death, at the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage festival. He would pause between songs to talk about Prince’s influence on his work. “Everyone on this stage is here because of him,” he told the crowd. In the middle of his cover of Kate Bush’s This Woman’s Work – which he originally recorded in 2001 – he murmured the opening words from Let’s Go Crazy – “Dearly beloved, we are gathered here today to get through this thing called life” – with a religious concentration. “It was such a tough show to get through,” he says now.Two weeks after our interview, Maxwell performs Nothing Compares 2 U at the BET awards; on the night, one of the verses mutates from the Prince original – “I went to the record store … Apple, Spotify, too, and they told me / ‘Boy you’d better try to make some music, which you can’t do / ’cause Prince is the truth!’” Prince was a fan of Maxwell, too. He had, apparently, been asking Harry Belafonte why Maxwell was taking so long to follow up 2009’s BLACKsummers’night album. “I’ve known [Prince] for a long time and was shocked that he actually genuinely cared about what I was doing, and why I was taking so long,” Maxwell says.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Finally, that new album – blackSUMMERS’night – is out (there will, at some point, be a third album in the series, called blacksummers’NIGHT). But Maxwell does not work quickly. It is 20 years since his debut, Urban Hang Suite, which fitted into the burgeoning neo-soul movement of the time, alongside the crisp debuts of D’Angelo and Erykah Badu. Two more albums followed in relatively good time: Embrya in 1998, and Now in 2001. And then it was an eight-year wait – during which, he said, he took a break from the music industry to become a “full, 100% man” – until BLACKsummers’night, followed by another seven for the new album.“Why does it take so damn long? I would say … anxiety.” Two events paralysed him artistically: turning 40 in 2013, and the success of his previous record. BLACKsummers’night entered the US chart at No 1, while its single Pretty Wings topped the Hot R&B chart for 14 weeks. “I didn’t know [BLACKsummers’night] would be so loved. I had no idea. And now I have to put out something else, and it had better be better. And that can freeze you.”He requires the accumulation of experience in order to write, to have gone through something in order to translate it to record. He is also the only person motivating himself to work. “I don’t have a creative mafia that makes everything happen,” he says. “That’s not my style, I’m not interested in that. I wish I was – it’d be nice, I could have a really nice Lamborghini or something. The question begs: ‘Would Sade do this? Would Marvin do this?’” The reference to Sade is pertinent – he has two regular collaborators, Hod David and Stuart Matthewman, and the latter is one of Sade’s closest colleagues.He is allergic to the elevated atmosphere of celebrity. “Celebrities have competitors, and competition, and people they have to fight against or be better than,” he says. “Artists, it doesn’t really work that way.”On the cover of the new album, Maxwell obscures his face, as if to diminish his personality and focus attention on his music. “My friend asked me: ‘Why are you covering your face? It’s your album! You should be like: Look at me!’” he says. What’s more evident on the cover, in fact, is the space around Maxwell. “You know what they say. What’s hidden is always the most interesting thing,” he says.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The new album feels less organic than its predecessor, which emphasised the nimble interactions of its musicians. BlackSUMMERS’night instead explores the tension between live performance and a more hermetic studio process. Maxwell talks about the song Gods, which builds on a four-bar melody, a glistening spine for the song: “I don’t know how these things come together,” he says. “I really cannot take credit for the writing or any of it. I am writing it, but it’s literally just … happening.”Like many of Maxwell’s songs, Gods concerns the physical as it flows into the metaphysical: “As you lied so convincingly / As you swore so religiously,” he sings, his voice evolving from its weathered and cracked register into a gentle shimmer: “You played the game of gods.” Two encounters dictated the song. “I was going through a really weird experience that involved this girl and this one particular individual that was upset about this girl who was interested in me,” he says. “It’s so funny – one thing will begin a song, and then another meeting will completely finish the song. So it’s like an arc of how everybody plays into this particular idea of the song.” And that is how Maxwell songs function: things arc into each other. “You want to say the right things. You want to say things you haven’t heard before, that people haven’t written before. How many times can you say: ‘I love you baby’?”Maxwell has made an album about a love that may never be understood or reciprocated. “It may happen, it may not,” he says. “Kind of a wait-and-see, Saturnial, pessimistic. I think it lives in both worlds because of how I think of things. There are no real guarantees. People are independent individuals.” He says he’s a classic romantic, and finds the modern mutations of dating – Tinder, OkCupid, and so on – alienating and uninhabitable. “It’s very disconnected and detached,” he says. “I’m not hating. I’m sure people have had amazing moments with their more controlled experience of the things they want to do. People are scared to be vulnerable and surrender themselves to someone else, and that’s really part of loving someone. I don’t know if what people are writing any more supports that.”At the centre of Maxwell’s music is his vulnerability. “I’m always looking for the spark of experience that then goes into the performance,” he says. “That’s what Kate Bush did to me. I didn’t really understand what the hell [This Woman’s Work] was about. I just knew that whatever she felt, whatever her feeling was that she had been through or gone through … I don’t care who you are when you hear that, it’s buckle-your-knees, fall-to-the-ground, it’s just beautiful. And it’s transcendental. It’s literally like stuff that you could expect to hear when walking into heaven after you die. That’s the thing that Prince had, too.”Now blackSUMMERS’night is done, the main feeling he has is relief. “I’m so happy it’s done,” he says. “I’m over this.” He says he has finished writing the third part of the trilogy and is in the process of recording it. And where will he be when it’s done? “I get to figure out where I want to go, where I want to live, what I want to build,” he says. “Family stuff. Finally, just get a life. I’ve been living life, but really getting a life finally, extending myself past my own self and the music that I’m so anxiety-ridden about having to do.”• blackSUMMERS’night is out now on Sony/RCA.