“This is not a feminist exhibition,” curator Judith Ryan tells me as we take the stairs down to the ground level at the National Gallery of Victoria, after seeing a preview of Who’s Afraid of Colour? It is, however, an exhibition that features only the work of Indigenous women, and this is a statement in itself. In a year in which female artists were underrepresented in the major exhibitions and retrospectives – and the NGV, in particular, came under fire for its lack of support for female artists – it’s heartening for the gallery to end the year with an all-female, Indigenous Australian show.Human rights day: installation invites public to open hearts for offshore detention Who’s Afraid of Colour? draws on the NGV’s own collection and features more than 200 contemporary artworks by 118 female artists. The NGV is calling the exhibition an “unprecedented survey of Indigenous Australian women’s art.” The gallery started collecting Indigenous art in the mid 1980s. The exhibition, which runs over six gallery spaces, features work never displayed before, much of it collected in the last three or four years, says Ryan. Although not all the work had been hung when Guardian Australia visited, the pieces displayed were exciting, diverse and bold. The artists range from women living in traditional communities to those in cities. Some of the work is textural – baskets, mats and baby carriers – while others are paintings and installations.“We have a vast cross-section of work,” says Ryan, who has been working with Indigenous art since the 1970s. “We’re showing women who have trained in glass [and have work by] Maree Clarke from Melbourne who does photography and installation. There’s also a lot going on in the Torres Strait – we have three woven body sculptures, plus jewellery and feather headdresses from Cape York.” There are also two rooms displaying batiks – cloth that has been dyed using wax to create patterns – as well as early drawings from Fitzroy Crossing and works that reference ancestral events, including a giant eel trap.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ritual and ceremony: Men in mourning by Maree Clarke (2012–13) Photograph: Maree Clarke, courtesy Vivien Anderson Gallery, Melbourne Work by Indigenous women has been traditionally overlooked by the art establishment, says Ryan. In 1981, for example, there were no female artists included in the Aboriginal Australia exhibition, a massive show at NGV featuring 321 works from Indigenous artists.The anthropologists who were responsible for collecting fibre objects, such as baskets or mats, often did not acknowledge women as the creators of the objects.The artists were “not dignified with either a name or a voice,” says Ryan. Ryan dates the ascendancy of female Indigenous artists to around the year 2000, “after women’s art practice was acknowledged internationally in 1997 when Emily Kam Kngwarray, Yvonne Koolmatrie and Judy Watson represented Australia at the Venice Biennale.”Many people assume Indigenous art begins and ends with dot paintings, but there is an incredible variety of artistic styles on display in this exhibition. Take for example Julie Dowling’s stunning painting, Goodbye White Fella Religion, that uses earth pigments and blood on canvas, and depicts a man lying on the ground in either torment or ecstasy. Or the work of Jenny Crompton, whose hanging sculpture Sea Country Spirits is so beautiful, it’s difficult to resist the temptation to touch it.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Goodbye White Fella Religion by Julie Dowling, 1992. Photograph: Julie Dowling / VISCOPYCrompton’s sculpture consists of 32 individual hanging works, which are made from recycled copper wire, shells, feathers, kangaroo bones, grass tree fronds and paint. “My art practice focuses on themes that explore the environment and Indigenous culture of my country, the Wadawurrung country of the Surf Coast and Bellarine Peninsula,” Crompton told Guardian Australia. “Part of my process is walking the land and respectfully gathering natural materials, which allows me to reconnect, listen and interpret an essence of my culture and an Aboriginal spirituality through the making of sculpture and paintings.”Palace of Versailles comes to Canberra in big-ticket blockbuster that doesn't disappoint Consider also Maree Clarke, who recreates ceremonial objects held in museums which are no longer made in Indigenous communities. Her majestic kangaroo tooth necklace is part of the exhibition.“With the information that I gather, I pass this knowledge on to the next generation through art mentoring programs,” says Clarke. “I also like to think about new ways to tell our stories through new media.”The work in the exhibition – particularly the woven, fibre objects – may not seem like political works of art, but “art is political, life is political,” says Ryan. “Some of the works are more overtly political than others, but it’s a political statement for an artist to still live on country, and an assertion that she wants to stay on country. If she keeps weaving from material found on land, that is a statement of continuity of culture and ways of looking at the world.” • Who’s Afraid of Colour? is showing at Ian Potter Centre: NGV Australia from 16 December to 17 April