ABC programmers have moved the popular international current affairs show Foreign Correspondent from its prime-time spot of 8pm on a Tuesday night to the less populated 9.30pm slot for the 2016 schedule. The decision has angered the ABC’s news division because the move will likely cause audience numbers to crash from 800,000 to about 500,000 – but the top brass at SBS are fuming too.Why SBS? Well, the other public broadcaster also has an international current affairs show – Dateline – which is already occupying the 9.30pm slot on Tuesdays. Both shows attract a similar audience but are now going to cannibalise each other. High-level talks between news bosses at ABC and SBS have failed to reach a compromise because the decision was made by the ABC’s TV division, which controls the schedule, and they wanted to put Catalyst at 8pm. “This year Catalyst is running the full year on Tuesdays at 8pm and Foreign Correspondent at 9.30pm,” an ABC spokeswoman told Weekly Beast. “This is part of a strategy to extend our successful brands, be a more efficient broadcaster and meet the expectations of our audience. The new time slots will also help us meet the objective of significantly increasing both science and documentary programming. Both the ABC and SBS have excellent video on demand services that mean audiences can watch programs whenever they want.”But SBS’s news chief, Jim Carroll, is furious, saying the ABC is ignoring its charter responsibility to take into account SBS programming. “We’ve evolved Dateline into a more relevant and dynamic 30-minute program still focusing on the big international issues,” Carroll said. “The changes have driven significant increase in viewer engagement and we are confident Dateline will continue to grow audiences this year. It is disappointing to see the ABC ignore its obligation to take account of SBS’s existing services. It’s at odds with the purpose of public broadcasting and is, ultimately, bad for audiences, who now have less choice to engage with important globally focused current affairs through the week.”Eyes on Whittaker as Mathieson exitsAustralian's editor, Clive Mathieson, quits to work for NSW government The big media news this week was the resignation of the editor of the Australian, Clive Mathieson, to join Mike Baird’s team in the New South Wales government as a senior adviser. Mathieson’s departure was not surprising as he was denied the chance to succeed Chris Mitchell as the editor-in-chief despite being his deputy for the past five years.Mathieson was also passed over for the job of ABC news director, which went to internal candidate Gaven Morris. When Mitchell retired last year you didn’t see many tributes from staff on social media, but the tributes have flowed for Mathieson. The boyish-looking Adelaide journalist was seen internally and externally as the voice of reason in an environment often driven by ideology. Even Media Watch host Paul Barry tweeted that he was sorry to see him go. He was always the one to resolve clashes of personalities inside the Oz and was known to occasionally hose down some of the crazier requests from Mitchell. Now all eyes are on the more tabloid-minded editor-in-chief, Paul Whittaker, to see what direction he takes the paper in when Mathieson departs at the end of the month.ABC mourns Australian Story pioneerThe ABC is mourning the loss of one of its brightest personalities: the experienced and respected producer Ges D’Souza. D’Souza worked for Aunty for best part of 20 years and was described by Gaven Morris as “part of the fabric of ABC News”. The father of three suffered a severe heart attack playing football last month and was unable to be revived. As a founding member of Australian Story in 1996, D’Souza is credited by founding executive producer Deb Fleming as the man who came up with the perfect name for the program. His other credits include The Howard Years, Four Corners and After the Deluge: Stories From the Australian Floods in 2011. “In an industry dominated by stress heads, he had the laconic ease and sunny smile of one of those West Indian cricketers he probably admired,” Fleming said.Home Delivery an unexpected treat      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kerry O’Brien takes Julia Zemiro back to his childhood home in Brisbane during Home Delivery on ABC TV. Photograph: ABCThis week saw the start of the cut-throat 2016 TV ratings season when the free-to-air networks pull out the big guns, which characteristically means the big reality franchises: My Kitchen Rules (Channel Seven), Australia’s Got Talent (Nine) and I’m A Celebrity Get Me Out of Here! (Ten). But the week also saw the return of ABC staples Q&A, Australian Story and Four Corners, all strong performers. For my money the best show this week was the unassuming Home Delivery with Julia Zemiro on the ABC on Wednesday. The first episode of the series saw Zemiro take ABC legend Kerry O’Brien back to his childhood home and school in Brisbane. For viewers who have only ever seen O’Brien in his TV role of formidable political journalist it was a glimpse of a warm, reflective Red Kezza who enjoys a belly laugh and has a mischievous sense of humour. Zemiro turned the tables on the king of interviewing, getting O’Brien to open up about the cruel corporal punishment he suffered at the hands of the Christian Brothers at his Catholic school.News Corp welcomed to the jungleSo far in the ratings race Seven is ahead, with huge audiences for MKR of 1.57 million. Ten’s I’m a Celebrity … was just half that with 710,000 viewers – despite the network’s somewhat unconventional promotional tactics. Desperate for traction for the expensive reality show, Ten has again resorted to paying for journalists to fly to South Africa to cover it. This year Ten has taken a News Corp journalist, Jonathon Moran, as a sort of embedded entertainment journalist, all expenses paid. JMo, as he is known, has become part of the crew, posing in endless photos with the celebrities and even camping out on set for a first-person story before the celebrities arrived.JMo files almost daily from his hotel near the set, providing a flow of free copy to promote the show across News Corp publications including the Daily Telegraph and news.com.au. To be fair he does disclose the arrangement at the bottom of each story: “The journalist is in South Africa as a guest of Channel Ten covering I’m A Celebrity … Get Me Out Of Here!”No such invitation was forthcoming for Daily Mail Australia, however, despite the website’s enormous appetite for the show’s celebrities. The Mail broke the story about former cricketer Shane Warne being a cast member and fresh stories appear every day despite Ten’s refusal to give access. The reason they’ve been banned? The Daily Mail famously spoiled the finale of Ten’s series The Bachelorette Australia last year when it revealed the ending before the show had been to air, resulting in an injunction in the NSW supreme court.