Sesame Street is gentrifying. The New York neighbourhood at the heart of the 45-year-old kids’ show is changing to reflect new social realities. “It is more like things look now,” Carmen Osbahr, a puppeteer on the show for 26 years, said recently. “When Sesame Street was created, it was kind of more like the Bronx.”She meant that, back in the day, Sesame Street was as gritty and urban as a puppet show for pre-schoolers can get. It had cramped apartments, a run-down playground and the implication that Oscar the Grouch, who lived in a trash can, was effectively homeless.Now, Oscar recycles and composts. Elmo has moved from an apartment to a brownstone. Abby Cadabby enjoys her new community garden. It can’t be long before hipsters, with their beards and microbreweries, start moving in, thereby pushing property prices up so much that Big Bird is driven from his rent-controlled nest.Some fans of the show feel betrayed. What has got lost in Sesame Street’s channel transfer from PBS to HBO, argues Arthur Chu on Alternet, is precisely what made it special: its working-class roots and social purpose. “At its best, Sesame Street was a show defiantly for and about the urban poor,” says Chu. It was devised with a simple principle in mind: “Poor kids watch more TV than rich kids, thanks to poor kids having busy parents and being more likely to be raised by TV. Poor kids get less education than rich kids. Make TV that’s educational – good TV that’s educational.” Oscar recycles, Elmo has moved to a brownstone. How long before hipsters with beards and microbreweries start moving in? Sesame Street did more. It not only helped the working-class poor, but actually depicted them (albeit as multi-coloured puppets). Now? “It’s dropped its radical notion that working-class are people, too.” Sesame Street, though, is not an exceptional television show in submitting to the dictates of gentrification. In Britain, another formerly working-class TV street has gone upscale. The Rovers Return used to be the kind of pub where men would trade bar-room blows over some convincingly male, blue-collar issue (a dearth of pork scratchings, say, or who was the latest beau of heartbreaker Elsie Tanner). Meanwhile, in the snug, women wearing hairnets and expressions as hard as anthracite would foregather over halves of stout and mither in incomprehensible Lancastrian idioms.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Coronation Street cast members in front of Nick’s Bistro. Photograph: McPix/Rex/ShutterstockWhat happened to Coronation Street happened like this: in 2010, Nick Tilsley sold his stake in the Weatherfield knicker factory Underworld for £100,000, and invested it in a trendy wine bar – the very first rival to the unreconstructedly proletarian Rovers Return, which, since Coronation Street’s inception in 1960, had rather incredibly been the only drinkery in the street. After a tram crashed into Coronation Street (don’t ask), the wine bar closed for repairs and later reopened as that must-have of any gentrified neighbourhood, a bistro. For more than half a century, everybody in Coronation Street thought a bistro was a mispronounced brand of gravy granules. Gentrification exploded that delusion.The anti-eviction blues: audio reports from San Francisco's gentrifying streets For an American version of what a game-changer the Coronation Street bistro is, imagine Paddy’s Pub, the dive bar in the long-running sitcom It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia, starting to serve cocktails in jam jars to a clientele of the hipsters in Portlandia and the habitués of that gay bar Moe established in The Simpsons (to rival The League of Extra Horny Gentlemen across the street). Or indeed just look at the recent episode of South Park when the mayor rebranded a run-down district as SoDo SoPa (short for South Downtown of South Park), in a bid to attract a Whole Foods, making sure to maintain the integrity of the district’s “historic centre” (Kenny’s house). Can any TV street resist? The Simpsons’ Evergreen Terrace may seem to be change-proof, but think again: recall Three Gays of the Condo, in which Homer became roommates with some tasteful dudes who turned him on to moisturisers, espressos and the gentrifier’s go-to mutt, the Lhasa Apso. It was Santa’s Little Helper, the Simpsons’ downscale mongrel, that I felt sorry for. But no one can pretend that the only victims of gentrification are humans.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gentrified South Park: The Lofts at SoDo SoPaEastEnders, the London-set soap, is figuratively the last house in the street to have its front door painted teal. Its stubborn refusal to gentrify is extraordinary, given that it’s set in the fictional borough of Walford, yet bears close similarities to real-life districts of east London, ground zero for socially cleansed smugness.That said, there are rumours of plans to tear down the heart of EastEnders, Albert Square, and rebuild a new one. What’s more, the show’s new executive producer, Dominic Treadwell-Collins, told Radio Times that the EastEnders set had been “frozen in aspic” for too long, and must take in more of modern London. We all know what he means.But how? What the scriptwriters need to do is write out the unacceptably cockney Danny Dyer and Barbara Windsor characters, replace them with two artists loosely modelled on Shoreditch artists Gilbert and George, and then stage a riot when a posh cafe opens to serve the outré breakfast demands of the incoming monied. This riot, of course, would be modelled on the one last year in Brick Lane, during which the Cereal Killer cafe was targeted by protesters furious at the pricing-out of locals by means of £4.40 bowls of cereal. So far, none of this has happened, but trust me, it will; if an apparently unpromising London manor like Walthamstow (my home for eight years in the last millennium) can gentrify, so can Walford.From Doonesbury to Grayson Perry: 10 of the best gentrification cartoons To be fair, the BBC is also giving us a glimpse into the befuddlement long-time locals feel when their manor gets gentrified. During the last series of the sitcom Count Arthur Strong, the greasy-spoon proprietor, Bulent, upscaled his menu. He put fennel in the sausages and a dash of cinnamon in the baked beans, as he sought to court a new demographic. The earthy regulars were unimpressed. Arthur, in his malapropistic way, wondered: “Why would you want to wipe a flannel on a sausage?” His fellow diner John the Watch emerged briefly from his Racing Post to gag over what Bulent had done to his beans. What the episode showed was that gentrification is both mystifying and unpalatable for those whose tastes it programatically excludes. On BBC4’s recent comedy Brian Pern: 45 Years of Prog and Roll, the eponymous rock star added a new member to his entourage. His name? Stuart. His role? Brian’s Ocado delivery driver. As he sat at a meeting with the venerable rocker and his other flunkies, Stuart didn’t say much, but one could almost feel property values rising around him through the mere force of his presence. The same happens when his van makes a delivery in your street, you know, or if Waitrose or Whole Foods applies for planning permission for a new branch around the corner. Such is the unstoppable force that is gentrification. It is everywhere, or soon will be, on TV as much as in real life.Follow Guardian Cities on Twitter and Facebook and join the discussion