‘It was Jonathan Ross’s halloween party,” says Derren Brown, excitedly describing the last time he dared set foot in a haunted house. “He actually had one set up. I went through and I had Louis Theroux in front of me, and Simon Pegg behind, and I’m holding on to Louis and he’s screaming his head off. And actually, it was brilliant. It wasn’t horrible, it was just fun.”It’s with this in mind that Brown, still drawing acclaim and occasional outrage for his television specials, has taken on an audacious task, even by his own standards (in January, Ofcom received 14 complaints when the illusionist seemingly convinced a member of the public to push a man off a roof in Pushed to the Edge). He has spent the last three years secretly working with Thorpe Park in Surrey, in a bid to “completely reinvent the concept of the ghost train”.Billed as a combination of “4D, grand illusion, live action and special effects”, Derren Brown’s Ghost Train, as the attraction is called, is an impressive jigsaw of elements. I’m the first outsider to be invited into his detailed, full-scale recreation of a dilapidated railway depot. Such is the level of anticipation and secrecy, Thorpe Park has had to reconfigure its social media after fans hacked in for a snoop.  There were no grownups stepping in and saying: 'You can't do that'       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The illusionist behind the scenes of his new attraction Photograph: Tim AndersonIntellectual properties, or IPs, are now highly profitable for the UK theme park industry, particularly within Merlin, the park’s owner, which has bankrolled this latest “dark ride”. Indeed, in hosting his own attraction at Thorpe Park, Brown has gained some unlikely bedfellows: Angry Birds, I’m A Celebrity and the Saw horror franchise. In its early days, Thorpe even had its own, in-house range of jolly animal mascots: the Thorpe Park Rangers. Now, only Mr Monkey remains, sheepishly swinging in his banana boat across the way from Brown’s multimillion-pound warehouse of doom. You suspect his days are numbered. We – the park and I – are both in the business of providing an experience of wonder Given that the publicity for Ghost Train has so far involved Brown grappling with a chained demon on the streets of Wolverhampton, it’s fair to say this isn’t aimed at those who favour his early, lo-fi card work. But, for a performer known for his relentless attention to detail, what made him cede at least some control to Merlin? “They got in touch and said, ‘Anything you would like to do?’ It didn’t even need to be a ride, it was literally anything. And very quickly I decided it was going to be a ghost train. We’re both in the business of providing a childlike thing, that experience of wonder. The absolute priority is for the spectator’s experience, and there were no grownups stepping in saying: ‘You can’t do that, it’s too much fun.’”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Unleashing demons … Derren Brown in the streets of Wolverhampton. Photograph: Daniel LewisAfter a personal (albeit holographic) introduction from the man himself, visitors cross a gantry to enter a Victorian railway carriage suspended three metres above the ground by metal chains. Once inside, they might be surprised to find the interior of a modern London tube. Little is as it seems – and “passengers” can expect a blend of low-key spookiness, which gradually gives way to the sort of unabridged chaos that Thorpe Park’s young, social media-bashing visitors demand. There are no loops and no drops, but the jolts keep coming until you’re unceremoniously spat into … the atmospheric gift shop. Here, an unnerving mannequin version of Brown dispenses fortunes, along with the occasional money-off voucher. You can even buy a 3D photo of your own head in a jar.  It's got to be balls out … you won't know where perception ends and reality begins “When we sat down and thought about the possibilities, we thought, ‘It’s got to be balls out,’” says Brown who, despite a hefty touring schedule, has been involved in everything from the ride’s animation to selecting the opening day staff. “The challenge for us, from a writing point of view, is making sure it holds together and works as a whole experience.”For a good portion of the 13-minute experience, passengers will have virtual reality headsets strapped to their foreheads, each equipped with a camera that will presumably assure the experience lives up to Brown’s promise that “you won’t know where perception ends and reality begins”.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a trailer for Derren Brown’s Ghost TrainIt is an individual experience, he insists, as well as a collective one. Although 58 passengers will fill each tube car, thanks to the VR, “you can suddenly be totally on your own”. Passengers will (hopefully) be enjoying themselves “in a sort of fun, where’s this going kind of way. But then, all of that can be stripped away – and you end up with something essentially solitary. That raised the question of what’s too scary.”With a minimum age requirement of 13, the ride aims to be thrilling, rather than harrowing. Merlin had to deal with a genuine theme park scare last summer, after an accident on the Smiler rollercoaster at sister park Alton Towers resulted in leg amputations for two passengers. The company has admitted a health and safety breach and is awaiting what is expected to be an unprecedented fine. The accident has affected attendance and profits.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ghost train passengers with the £600 VR headsets Photograph: PR ImageDespite boasting the longest warnings and advice board in the park’s history, the Ghost Train promises a safe, even sanitised spell of chaos. And the ride’s £600 VR headsets will be frequently disinfected although, as one of the ride’s designers says: “You’re more likely to pick up bacteria in the queue.”This train has been running late. Originally scheduled to open early in May, the date was subsequently shifted back a month. Then all the Thorpe Park website would say was that it was “coming soon”. But the latest reports say that it will actually open this Friday, 8 July.Get me out of here! I'm a Celebrity maze to open at Thorpe Park Although Brown’s roots are in vaudeville, his later TV specials have increasingly seen him adopt a quasi-therapist role, hoping to inspire individual participants emerging from his elaborate stunts, rather than simply confound them. Ultimately, for all its innovation, a theme park ride can surely only achieve so much. So what does the illusionist want to give his audience at Thorpe Park? What does he want his passengers to be thinking when they eventually stumble out of that rail car? With a familiar grin and no hesitation, his answer is simple: “What the fuck just happened?”