The tragic decision for the UK to leave the European Union has prompted us to undertake, with your help, a new series in which we celebrate the great cities of Europe through the music they have inspired.We are looking for pieces that capture the essence of cities such as Vienna, Paris, Rome and Leipzig, pieces that were written by people who had the spirit of those places in their soul. Or perhaps their connections are more literal – the works were commissioned for, or premiered in, that city, or perhaps their composer found love, or sanctuary, or inspiration within its confines.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Proms, at the Royal Albert Hall, one of London - and Europe’s - greatest music festivals. Photograph: Chris ChristodoulouMusicians, especially classical musicians, do not recognise borders. Music – their language – is universal. Whether they perform in London, Paris, Berlin, Milan or Madrid, they express the same emotions and thoughts of love, war, death and suffering to their audiences, who respond with no thought for nationhood. People are people; Europeans are Europeans; music lovers are music lovers.I interviewed a conductor in Berlin the day before the referendum vote. He said he hoped desperately that the UK would stay in: Remain was a vote for cosmopolitanism and togetherness and a future based on hope. He was Jewish. His grandparents had died in the concentration camps; his parents were in hiding in Budapest throughout the second world war. He remembered and understood why the EU had been set up. An hour with him was worth more than three months of useless campaigning by Remain. This was full-blooded emotional commitment, rather than wheedling, half-hearted economic calculation. Such a campaign would, I believe, have won the day. But back to the music.Today we start with London, soon (or soonish anyway) to leave the EU, very much against most of its citizens’ wishes. We will cover other great cities in coming weeks in a languorous grand tour of our gorgeous European cultural landscape.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It is tempting to start with The Clash’s London’s Burning, which certainly encapsulates the way many of us feel right now, or the nostalgic Waterloo Sunset, an etiolated hymn to a wonderful city. There’s also A Nightingale Sang in Berkeley Square, which for me sums up the unquenchable spirit of London during the Blitz.If you want something a little more “classical”, well, there’s Eric Coates’s London Suite, which I’ve always adored. (Damn, demonstrating my 1930s sensibility and liking for light music for all to see.) I love the perkiness and dash of this as Coates takes a musical walk through Covent Garden, Westminster and Knightsbridge. This is a city that loves itself and fears nothing.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Elgar caught that spirit, too, in his Cockaigne overture, also known as In London Town. Cockaigne was a mythical medieval land of luxury and excess. That’s how its critics, not unlike Leave voters in the north of England and south Wales, saw the capital. London adopted the term and took it as a compliment, as Elgar does in his glorious overture.I’ve always, however, given Vaughan Williams’ London Symphony a wide berth. I’m a Symphonies 3 and 5 man, and No 2 never made the same impact. But listening to it again this week I find it mesmerising: written just before the outbreak of the first world war and a poignant meditation on a world that was soon to be lost.Vaughan Williams spent 25 years revising it and distanced himself from the specificity of some of the original scene-setting: Westminster at night, Hampstead Heath on a bank holiday Monday, Bloomsbury Square on a November afternoon (you can almost smell the mist). Instead of A London Symphony, he said he preferred “Symphony by a Londoner”. Either way, it works beautifully, especially as we wonder what the new world we are stepping into will look like.Any of Haydn’s London symphonies, composed between 1791 and 1795, could make the cut – I’ll plump for No 104, his final symphony. I also want some of the music of Purcell, a great son of London who spent his entire life in the city. His song Now That the Sun Hath Veiled His Light always calms the spirit, and those feeling that the referendum result may be a valediction of sorts will want his extraordinary Music for the Funeral of Queen Mary.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The German-born George Frideric Handel moved to London in his mid-20s (a welcome economic migrant), became a British citizen and lived there for the rest of his life, dying at the age of 74 at his Mayfair home (now a museum dedicated to him). It is claimed that the last of his pieces he heard performed was Messiah, that quintessentially English piece written by a German. And did you know London can (sort of) also claim Beethoven’s 9th Symphony? The Philharmonic Society of London commissioned a symphony from him in 1817, but it wasn’t completed for seven years, so Vienna got the premiere while London had to make do with the score, on the front page of which Beethoven inscribed “written for the Philharmonic Society in London”. It is delicious to think that Beethoven’s Choral Symphony, the rousing last movement of which, with its “Ode to Joy”, has become the anthem of the European Union, began life in London. One in the eye for the Brexiters!   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest That’s enough from me. Feel free to offer your own suggestions for music that evokes London below, and please also make some suggestions for Paris, which I will tackle next week. The more the merrier. These are testing times and we need to stick together.