It’s a December morning at an enormous film studio in the depths of Queens, New York, and three teenage boys slink past. One is Jaden Smith; he’s sporting a huge afro, nail polish and a black kilt. The nail polish is, he coolly explains, “just how I roll” – a couple of months later he’ll be expressing his gender fluidity in a Louis Vuitton womenswear ad. The afro, however, is down to the “amazing hair and makeup” on the new Netflix show in which he and his compadres star: The Get Down.Named after the funky break on a record that early hip-hop DJs would endlessly extend so an MC could rap over it, The Get Down is the second TV show to air this year set in 70s New York. In Spring, Vinyl, co-produced by Mick Jagger and Martin Scorsese, was broadcast on HBO and derided as a farrago of clichés; its second season was cancelled last month.Judging by the first episode, however, The Get Down is much more fun. Created by Baz Luhrmann – it’s his first TV project – it’s set from 1977 to 1979, when the city was on the verge of going bankrupt but boasted the most innovative music scene in the world. Those three years saw the heyday of Studio 54 and disco, the Ramones distilling rock’n’roll into punk, voguing stirring out on the piers – and, most influential of all, the birth of hip-hop in the recreation rooms, baseball pitches and rubble-strewn streets of the South Bronx.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Shyrley Rodriguez as Regina, Stefanée Martin as Yolanda Kipling and Herizen F Guardiola as Mylene Cruz. Photograph: Myles Aronowitz/NetflixThe Australian director of such plush films as Moulin Rouge and The Great Gatsby may seem an odd, even sacrilegious choice to depict the poverty and violence of the neighbourhood, let alone the gritty realness of hip-hop itself. The Get Down is sure to be divisive – like everything Luhrmann does, it’s lavish and camp – but there’s a wonderful vigour to it, too. One sumptuously shot 20-minute setpiece, in which his hero Ezekiel “Books” Figueroa (played by Justice Smith) visits the nightclub Les Inferno in order to woo aspiring disco diva Mylene Cruz (Herizen Guardiola), features coke dealing, violence and a massive dance routine, set to an ever-shifting pulse of soul and funk records.By the end of the first episode, Books and his friends have met the guru-esque Shaolin Fantastic (Shameik Moore), who has initiated them into this underground world of hip-hop. It features the kind of rooftop scene Luhrmann has loved ever since Strictly Ballroom – except in The Get Down, rather than being lit by the Coca-Cola sign in Sydney’s King’s Cross, our heroes look out over the South Bronx as a subway train they’ve covered in graffiti rattles past below, Shaolin pointing out the territories of DJ Kool Herc and Afrika Bambaataa. Some viwers will be outraged by it, but others will swoon.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mamoudou Athie and Shameik Moore as Grandmaster Flash and Shaolin Fantastic. Photograph: David Lee/Myles Aronowitz/NetflixIn the studio, on one of the many lavish sets – in this case, a painstaking recreation of a “record pool”, the rooms where DJs would come to plough through mountains of vinyl in order to discover whether it would work on the dancefloor – Luhrmann explains his vision for the show. As he says, The Get Down is not specifically about the birth of hip-hop: it’s the story of a bunch of young people in one of the most creative milieux the world has ever seen. New York in the 70s, says Luhrmann, was like “1890s Paris, the grand period of opera in Italy – why was so much creativity bursting out of one place at one time?”It’s a good question, and one that Luhrmann – who directed the first episode and oversaw the other 12 – had been mulling for more than a decade, obsessed with the ideas of poor young New Yorkers transforming themselves through music: striving to be the greatest rapper or breakdancer, spraying their names on the side of a train or giving themselves superstar alter egos such as Grandmaster Flash. “That’s what has drawn me to it more than anything,” he says, “this need to say: ‘I exist.’”Framed like this, the story is not a million miles from the hoofers in Strictly Ballroom who decide that they need to break the rules to express themselves. Dizzee Kipling, played by Jaden Smith, even says: “To live with fear is a life half-lived,” Luhrmann’s slogan, as he goes to look at a Shaolin Fantastic artwork sprayed deep within enemy territory. However, Shyrley Rodriguez, who plays Mylene’s friend Regina, asserts that The Get Down is “very real. You have the grandiose aesthetic, but it’s the South Bronx – it’s gangs, it’s people shooting each other, it’s drugs, it’s all of that, too. It’s direct, head-on, aggressive and right in your face.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Shyrley Rodriguez as Regina, Herizen F Guardiola as Mylene Cruz and Stefanée Martin as Yolanda Kipling . Photograph: Netflix/Myles Aronowitz/Netflix“Everybody that’s interested in hip-hop at all, from Iggy Azalea to Chief Keef, you’re going to watch this show,” asserts Moore. “This is educational for that culture.”Still, some people will bridle that a middle-aged white Australian is attempting to depict such a pivotal moment in African-American culture. “On one level, what does Baz know about hip-hop?” says veteran journalist Nelson George, one of the first people to write about hip-hop, and a writer and consultant on The Get Down. “But on another, he knows so much about movement and music. Hip-hop is inherently a mashup and all his films mash things up, from Romeo and Juliet onwards. He’s not going to make a reincarnation of Mean Streets or Shaft – they’ve been done. We’re going to take this discussion visually and sonically to a place that it’s never been.”The piece of filming I watch from the wings gives early confirmation that The Get Down will combine painstaking research and a massive budget, all filtered through a distinctly lavish sensibility. In a trash-strewn alley, Luhrmann’s four buddies, now aspiring rappers, take the stage and immediately get booed off. Other sets I tour include Les Inferno, which has a gigantic mirrorball and a sign on the DJ booth that says “no requests”; a hair salon decked out with an Afrofuturist mural and a shelf-full of late-70s hair products; and a brothel-cum-drugs-den called Le Charbernet, overseen by the narcotics queenpin Fat Annie, with whom Shaolin is sexually involved. It’s quite a level of detail: “For a TV show, it’s unheard of,” says assistant producer Sinead Daly. If The Get Down flops, it will have cost Netflix a fortune.Then there are the costumes, which – like the sets – were overseen by co-producer and designer Catherine Martin, Luhrmann’s wife and long-term collaborator. “We have everything from drag pumps to suede Pumas: we were pristine in our research,” says costume designer Jeriana San Juan, whose wardrobe department is bursting with silky shorts, Lurex disco frocks and satin souvenir jackets. The main challenge, she adds, “is that the contemporary body is very different than the 1970s body. Kids spent their time outside, they didn’t go home and play video games, so most bodies were very long and lean and muscular.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Baz Luhrmann’s The Get Down: a 1970s hip-hop origin storyThe music, however, is the key – so much of it runs through the first episode that it is basically a musical. As with Luhrmann’s other films, mashups rule the day – although this time the director is steering clear of deliberate anachronisms (unlike in Moulin Rouge, where Jim Broadbent tackles Like a Virgin). Some songs in The Get Down are simply lifted from the era, which Luhrmann describes as a “needle drop”. Others are new tunes especially commissioned to approximate the records of the time. Nas is an executive producer on the show, while Daveed Diggs, from the musical Hamilton, rap-narrates it. Luhrmann recently joked that half the cast of the Broadway smash pop up in The Get Down – not surprisingly, since everyone in the programme is required to dance and sing as well as act, which the director said considerably narrowed the field of contenders.Then there are the numbers that express the thoughts and feelings of the characters. At least one epic dance sequence takes in hip-hop, disco, new wave and throws in a touch of opera. All this, says Luhrmann, is in the spirit of the times. “Afrika Bambaataa said in those days we had no prejudice about the music: ‘Oh, it’s Kraftwerk.’ It was just: ‘Can I bring disparate things together to make a third idea?’”The cast is similarly diverse. There is the odd familiar face, such as The West Wing’s Jimmy Smits, who plays Puerto Rican South Bronx power figure Francisco “Papa Fuerte” Cruz, but most are unknowns – one of the leads, TJ Brown, who plays Boo Boo, was discovered busking on the New York subway (“Every time I think of this, it’s just so emotional,” he says).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Skylan Brooks, Justice Smith, TJ Brown, Shameik Moore and Jaden Smith. Photograph: Myles Aronowitz/NetflixGuardiola is sensational as Mylene, a girl from a strict Pentecostal family who sneaks out at night dressed to the nines to pursue her disco dreams. Guardiola prepared for her role by “watching a lot of Donna Summer videos and getting the way she moves – very sensual and floaty”.Those in the disco roles had to learn the Latin hustle; the hip-hop characters had to be taught how to hold their microphones in the 70s style. All modern slang was banned: “Like saying: ‘Oh, that’s lit,’ or: ‘Oh, you swagging,’ or talking about your phone in any type of way,” says Jaden Smith, whose somewhat spaced-out air is put to good use in his role as the intense graffiti-obsessed Dizzee. “We’re millennial kids, so we had to let go of all of those things.”With its celebration of a lost era, The Get Down seems certain to provoke as much nostalgia for 70s New York as Patti Smith’s Just Kids did. However, its young stars are perfectly content to remain in the Manhattan of 2016. “Number one, it was dangerous [back then]; number two, I need my electronics,” says Brown. “I need to have a phone.”Smith ponders the question. “If I could go back with the knowledge that I have now, I probably would, because I’d be inventing the iPhone and stuff,” he says. “I’d release [Kanye West’s] 808s and Heartbreak as my first album and I would just be, like, awesome. I’d release Yeezys in like 1983 and be, like, next level. But if I couldn’t do that, then I would definitely not go back.”