When I saw Scottish standup Scott Gibson last summer, his show felt as if it was extra funny purely because Gibson is Glaswegian. As if you get free comedy points – or even better, free laughs – for being from a certain part of the world. When I put this to Gibson himself, he hesitantly agreed. “I’m glad this is the accent I’ve got,” he said. “I love being from Glasgow. There’s a harshness. From a young age, we always slag each other [off]. I don’t know if we’re just quick on the retort. And storytelling’s always been in our blood. I certainly wouldn’t want to be from anywhere else.”In the same interview, though, Gibson discussed Scottish comedians’ timidity – their sense of inferiority to “London, the establishment, whatever”; their sense that the Edinburgh fringe isn’t for them. Such is the Scots’ “cultural cringe”, much discussed north of the border, the Hyde of shame to the Dr Jekyll of pride that Gibson expressed in his city’s comic culture. It’s Burns Night tonight, which seemed like a good occasion to explore whether (in the year after Scottish comedians walked off with Edinburgh’s two major comedy awards for the first time) there is any such thing as an identifiable Scottish brand of comedy.Gibson’s digest of Glaswegian traits are a good starting point, given that Glasgow is often taken as a totem of Scottishness as a whole. On the one hand, there’s the accent, which seems to me beautifully suited to comedy. I don’t think that’s just (although it may be partly) the sentimental attachment of an ex-pat Scotsman; I often think the same of US accents, after all. You’d have a job denying that Billy Connolly’s accent – like, say, Reginald D Hunter’s – is integral to his comedy. In both cases, there’s a sonorous authority that comes when the inherent musicality of an accent is harnessed to exemplary comic technique. Laugh? I nearly died: how an aneurysm led Scott Gibson to standup Then there’s the Glasgow attitude. It tends to be seen as a working-class city, just as Scottishness is usually imagined as something tougher, more democratic than “posh” effete Englishness to the south. Obviously, this is a parody of the truth; but stereotypes have their adherents, and their effects. Certainly, the Scottish comedians who have prospered – Connolly, Frankie Boyle, Kevin Bridges, now Gibson too – cleave to the working-class Glaswegian brand of Scottishness: brusque bar-room everymen (seldom women, alas – although up-and-comers such as Fern Brady share many of these traits), hacking at tall poppies, unpretentious in themselves and scornful of pretension in others.When Scottishness is deployed in comedy, it’s often in this form of Glaswegian bluntness – witness Malcom Tucker, say, in The Thick of It (as scripted by the Glasgow-born Armando Iannucci). There’s “a directness … a comedic gruffness,” the Scottish standup Larry Dean wrote recently of Scottish humour. “When it comes to expressing ourselves, we tend not to overcomplicate things.”We shouldn’t map Glasgow across Scottish comedy as a whole. But it probably is fair to identify in Scottish humour and Scottish culture more widely (and Burns, with his “A man’s a man for a’ that” priorities, is influential here) an egalitarian spirit, a sympathy for the underdog – the flipside of which might be a fear of getting above oneself, of seeming pretentious. There are few notable Scottish comic experimentalists, and of those who have prospered – Ivor Cutler, say – their brand of experiment is seldom highbrow or exclusive. Perhaps Scotland would less readily produce a Stewart Lee or Tim Key. Current golden boy Richard Gadd may be niche, for now, but there’s nothing supercilious about his work, which often responds (as with the definitions of masculinity that give his current show its charge) to majoritarian ways of looking at the world.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Outrunning his demons … Richard Gadd. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianGibson’s talk of Scottish comics’ sheepishness hints at another characteristic of the country’s comedy. It may be changing – Scotland is developing greater confidence in itself these days – but there’s a deep-seated anxiety of inferiority running through Scottish culture. We know/fear we’re shit (“colonised by wankers,” and all that), and that comes out in the comedy, as a readiness to self-deprecate (see: Ronnie Corbett) now and then shading into self-hate (see: Jerry Sadowitz).Laughing gear: the best live comedy to start 2017 Of course, there are more exceptions than adherents to all of the above rules. Susan Calman’s career is flourishing, and she’s cheerfully middle-class. There’s nothing particularly blunt about, say, Daniel Sloss. I’ve already pushed too far the idea that Scottish comics necessarily have much in common: Scots can be as arrogant, indirect and undemocratic (see: half-Scottish president of the US, Donald Trump) as anyone else. In any case, Scotland’s a sprawling country (Glasgow’s not like Edinburgh; the Borders aren’t like the Highlands), and there’s a huge variety of comics there – many of whom share few qualities with one another, and many more with acts from elsewhere.I spoke to Gibson’s hero Billy Connolly last month, and asked him why he’d launched his High Horse tour in Scotland – a year before taking it elsewhere in the world. I thought he’d chosen Scotland as a soft landing for his work, a home crowd who knew his sense of humour most intimately. But Connolly dismissed that out of hand. “I don’t believe,” he told me, “in a national sense of humour. I don’t believe Scottish audiences are any different to English, American or Australian ones.” Although the sense persists that Connolly’s comedy is identifiably Scottish, he’s probably right. That’s certainly the spirit (“that man to man, the world o’er / Shall brothers be”) in which we should all head off to our Burns suppers tonight.Three Scottish comedians to seeGlasgow international festival Burns Night comedy galaFern Brady and Mark Nelson are among the Scottish standups taking part in this Burns Night comedy outing, a trailer for the Glasgow international comedy festival in March.• Leicester Square theatre, London, tonight. Box office: 020-7734 2222. Richard GaddTwo more weeks to run for Fife man Richard Gadd’s award-winning solo show about masculinity, buried trauma and the years-long effort he made to outrun his own demons.• Soho theatre, London, until 4 February. Box office: 020-7478 0100. Billy ConnollyAnother couple of UK dates coming up for the granddaddy of UK standup’s current, brilliant show High Horse, which has been touring since 2014 and now hits Northern Ireland.• SSE Arena, Belfast, 11, 12 February. Box office: 028-9073 9074. 