‘Tis the season for excess packaging. It can be extremely convenient, keeping food cold, extending shelf life and easing transportation.The downside is a huge amount of waste, exacerbated by declining recycling rates in the UK. Here’s our guide to the main problems and the companies offering a solution.PlasticsThe problem More than half of all goods in Europe are packaged in plastic, equivalent to 29kg per person per year. Manufacturers love it because it is lightweight and strong, but each year at least 8m tonnes [pdf] of plastic end up in the ocean. By 2050, it is predicted, there will be more plastic than fish in the sea. Industry’s main response has been to encourage recycling. In the UK, almost every local authority recycles plastic bottles and around three-quarters will collect pots, tubs and trays. But 80% of plastic film – the material used for carrier bags and the like – still ends up in landfill. And while 20m plastic bottles were recycled every day in the UK in 2015, more than 15m a day were not.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tetra Rex’s drinks carton is pitched as the first package made entirely of plant-based materials.A solution The Tetra Rex bio-based drinks carton, pitched as the world’s first package made entirely from plant-based materials, is manufactured exclusively from plastics derived from sugar cane and paperboard. The plastic manufacturer behind the renewable packaging innovation is Brazil-based Braskem, which uses sugar cane grown on degraded pastures and certified paperboard. The carton has 4kg less embedded carbon than conventional polyethylene on a per kg basis.Another brand following in Tetra Pak’s footsteps is bread manufacturer Hovis, which now uses a sugar cane-based renewable polyethylene bag for its Seed Sensations range. The bag, which has a 75% lower carbon footprint than traditional bread bags, was developed by Australian firm Amcor Flexibles.Did you know? Of the 57m tonnes of plastics produced in Europe annually, 39% is used in packaging. RefrigerationThe problem Refrigeration is essential if you don’t want your salad arriving mouldy or your milk turning rancid. Seventy percent of foods are chilled or frozen, [pdf] yet keeping our food cold on the journey from farm or food processing plant to the shop shelf or our doorstep is a polluting business. Refrigeration in trucks and other forms of transport is energy intensive and prone to leaking HFC refrigerants. Diesel powered fridges on refrigerated vehicles also emit “grossly disproportionate” amounts of toxic nitrogen oxides and particulate matter, two key causes of air pollution that contribute to millions of premature deaths worldwide [pdf].      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Allplants’ ‘spaceman envelope’ keeps food cold in transit.A solution Instead of relying on refrigerated vans, allplants, a new online retailer of food stuffs made entirely from plants, is using a “spaceman’s envelope” to keep its products refrigerated in transit. The system relies on a sponge-like insulation liner made from post-industrial raw denim fibres, coupled with high-duration deep freeze gels. The gels contains no toxins so can be safely poured down the sink after use, while the liner has two parts. The external part is plastic and can be recycled through your local recycling system, the inside part is compostable. Did you know? The 1m transport refrigeration units on European streets have the equivalent impact on air pollution as up to 56m diesel cars.Wasted wrappingThe problem The average UK householder throws away an estimated 400g of packaging every day [pdf].A solution As part of its commitment to what it calls “naked packaging”, cosmetics retailer Lush now wraps its shower-wash bars in “soap paper”. The dissolvable packaging is made from a mix of blended melon puree and soap flakes which are dehydrated and flattened into a sheet. Melons were found to have an optimal balance between sugar and fibre that makes them consistently pliable yet also resistant in dehydrated form. Did you know? 25% of household waste is packaging [pdf].      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Splosh’s reuseable bottle.LiquidsThe problem A high proportion of home cleaning, laundry, and health and beauty products come in liquid form. That presents manufacturers and retailers with an environmental headache. Liquid is heavy and bulky, which means transporting it – whether by plane, train, ship or lorry – incurs serious emissions. Freight road transport alone represents 30% of all transport emissions in the UK.The solution Powys-based eco-manufacturer Splosh gets around the liquid dilemma by manufacturing its home-cleaning, soap and laundry products in concentrate form. Consumers need just one bottle that they can use time and again by adding the sachet of concentrate and mixing it with water. The packaging for the sachets is made from recycled cardboard and is designed to fit directly through a standard letterbox (Splosh sells almost exclusively online). Customers then post back the cardboard packaging and sachets free of charge for repurposing. Did you know HGVs produce 22% of transport’s CO2 land transport emissions, while only accounting for 5% of vehicles.Sign up to be a Guardian Sustainable Business member and get more stories like this direct to your inbox every week. You can also follow us on Twitter.