Early in my career as a junior doctor I had a rotation I was looking forward to, where I was working with different senior doctors in the mornings and afternoons. I was quite excited as this was definitely a part of medicine I was interested in. On one of my first days I arrived at 6.30am to meet my senior doctor. I waited in the pre-op area, a room with several beds and curtains where patients have their regular checks before an operation. A small congregation of doctors and nurses wandered in talking. I didn’t know what the senior doctor who I would be working with looked like so I asked one of the nurses. “Yes, that’s him there,” she said with a cautious look. I walked proudly up to him and introduced myself.The senior doctor looked me up and down and said, “Well done you”, then brushed past me into the corridor. I scuttled after him thinking maybe he didn’t realise “I ... I think I’m with you this morning?”“Yes, yes I guess you are.”I followed him into another room, starting to sweat slightly.'Don't be a smart arse' – a junior doctor's survival guide “HAT!” shouted the nurse. “You need a hat!”The senior doctor turned around: “Better get yourself a hat.” He let go of the door which swung almost into my face. “Hat,” I said to myself, but where? Feeling anxious I rushed around the theatres and found the changing rooms and finally a box of hats. I stumbled back into the room, the first patient had already been brought in. The senior doctor thrust a tray into my midriff: “Any good with cannulas?”I mumbled something about recently being on paediatrics and not having done that many yet; he interjected: “Go on then.” I smiled and introduced myself to the patient, applied the tourniquet, cleaned the area of skin and nervously began to insert. Feeling pressure, I was overjoyed to see flashback – a small spot of blood in the cannula that means you’ve struck a vein. But on withdrawing the inner needle, no blood flowed. “No, no, no, you’ve blown the vein. Here.” The senior doctor stepped in and re-jigged the cannula correctly.A grilling started and even questions answered correctly were met with a look of them being barely acceptable. If wrong it was: “I mean, you did pass your exams? You should know this.” A humiliating dressing down in front of a sympathetic looking nurse. I was asked to perform a procedure I was unfamiliar with. Hands sweating, I tried my best but I struggled. “Come on,” he boomed. “We’ve already discussed this – it won’t be long before we have to start worrying.” He sat back watching me struggle. The rest of the morning continued in this way.The day I removed a toy dinosaur from a woman's vagina That afternoon I was crestfallen and the new senior doctor I was with, who was much nicer, asked if I was OK. “I had a ... tough morning,” I said. She asked who I was with, and after telling her she gave me a knowing look. “Tell me what happened,” she said reassuringly. We sat down and I told her the story. Growing in confidence as she nodded I said: “I just think it was rude and arrogant.” After I finished she sat back.“Yes” she said. “He’s my husband”I sat back and looked horrified. Glee reflected on her face.“Sorry,” she said through laughter. “I couldn’t resist.” I learned an important lesson that day – if a colleague asks your opinion about another doctor, check first that they’re not married.Ed Patrick is performing his show, Ed Patrick: Junior Optimist, at the Edinburgh Fringe every evening, 6.55pm at Just the Tonic at the Community Project. Last show is on 28 August.If you would like to contribute to our Blood, sweat and tears series which is about memorable moments in a healthcare career, please read our guidelines and get in touch by emailing sarah.johnson@theguardian.com.Do you work in the NHS? Please take our survey and tell us whether bullying is a problem and how it affects your work.Join the Healthcare Professionals Network to read more pieces like this. And follow us on Twitter (@GdnHealthcare) to keep up with the latest healthcare news and views.