You could think of it as a bit of bait-and-switch spycraft – while we watched The Night Manager, thinking that Tom Hiddleston, with his nice suits and topless scenes, had just turned in a six-hour audition tape to become the next James Bond, rumours surfaced this week that it was actually his director, Susanne Bier, who would get a shot at the most famous British spy.The Radio Times reports that Bier, who directed the recent BBC adaptation of John le Carre’s novel about a hotel manager who infiltrates an arms dealer’s inner circle, was on the shortlist of directors for the next Bond film. “I would probably cut off my ear to do James Bond. But really, I would love to do any kind of action,” she said earlier this year.Much has been made of the fact that Bier would become the first woman to direct a Bond film. Simon Cornwell, one of the executive producers of The Night Manager, who approached Bier, had no such issues with the director’s gender. “It’s a bit pathetic to think of that as a bold step.” Instead, he says, “the bold step for her and for us was for her to go into new territory, and I really think it paid off. If eyebrows were raised, it was because Susanne had never directed a thriller before.”There was also her wobbly entry into Hollywood. Two of her recent English-language films – Things We Lost in the Fire, starring Halle Berry and Benicio del Toro in 2007, and 2014’s Serena, with the usually winning combination of Jennifer Lawrence and Bradley Cooper in depression-era America – received tepid reviews and did not do well at the box-office.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Halle Berry in Things We Lost in the FireMore successful were the films, mostly in Danish, that Bier had become known for: intense, contained, emotional dramas (as well as a few comedies) that, when zoomed out, said something wider and more political about the world. It was this that attracted Cornwell, who with his brother Stephen (they are the sons of le Carre) set up a production company. “We felt that the way she tells stories through characters and relationships was particularly exciting, and also very good fit with le Carre and with longer-form storytelling, where you have more time to spend with people and you can go deeper,” he says.He had enjoyed In A Better World, which won Bier an Oscar for best foreign language film in 2011, about a Swedish doctor who divides his time between dealing with the horrors of a refugee camp in Sudan and coping with his disintegrating family in Denmark. But he also liked her next film, Love Is All You Need, a comedy despite its subject matter (its heroine is a cancer survivor who falls in love with Pierce Brosnan’s grumpy widower character). “[It] showed a lightness of touch. In The Night Manager, it was important to achieve a sense of light and shade.”Bier’s work often features family dramas, and dysfunctional relationships, which she has said is something she has always been obsessed with. “I am very close to my family and there’s something life-affirming about that. Even if you feel completely different from them, and have totally different views on politics and ethics, you’re still family and have that immediate acceptance.” She was born into a Jewish family in Copenhagen in 1960. Her father’s family had fled Germany in 1933, and when the Nazis invaded Denmark, her mother’s and father’s families escaped to Sweden. After the war, they returned to Denmark, which is where they met and raised their family. Although Bier has said she had a happy childhood, the trauma of the war and what it meant for her family and community was inescapable – and has informed her work. “We have a lot of fun, a lot of wonderful things but there’s always the awareness that catastrophe could happen any time and, in my work, there’s always that element of everything being turned upside down in a split second,” she said in an interview in February.Bier went to Israel to study art, then London where she went to study architecture, which sparked an interest in set design, which then led to an interest in filmmaking. Back in Denmark, she went to the National Film School and a year after graduating directed her first feature, Freud’s Leaving Home, a comedy drama about a Jewish family in Stockholm and an emotional reunion. Over the next decade, she made several films in Denmark and Sweden. Her 1999 Danish comedy The One and Only was a big hit, but it was her 2002 film Open Hearts, a departure from romantic comedy and made under the austere Dogme 95 movement rules, which gained international attention.About a woman whose fiancé is paralysed in a car accident, she ends up falling in love with the doctor who treats him (who also happens to be the husband of the woman who caused the accident), the film was written by Anders Thomas Jensen, who has become Bier’s closest collaborator. “We’ll build the story little by little,” she says of their work. “We never have a synopsis. We don’t do treatment either. We can’t actually make the movie until we have the matter of the characters.”They worked together on five of Bier’s next seven films, including the Oscar-nominated After The Wedding, and the Oscar-winning In A Better World. The Swedish actor Mikael Persbrandt played the lead role. He had known her before – Scandinavia’s film community is small – and had seen her films. Working with her, he says, “was something I wanted to do, of course.” Did he ever get the sense she was desperate to be accepted by Hollywood? He says they didn’t really talk about that. “I think she wants to do good movies, I don’t think she’s bothered if it’s Hollywood or England or Sweden or Denmark.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Swedish actor Mikael Persbrandt, with his young co-stars, played the lead role in Bier’s Oscar-winning In A Better World. Photograph: Moviestore/Rex/ShutterstockHe says: “[On set] she is very focused, she knows what story she wants to tell. It can be a sunset on a beautiful beach and I have a smile on my face and I say ‘what’s the complication in this scene?’ And she says, ‘you don’t have to know that, because I’m making my movie. Just walk the beach.’ She’s strong, she knows what she wants to say and you can be confident in that [as an actor] and enjoy it, and do complicated stories about human beings. There were lots of laughs, even when we had hard scenes. The work was carried out in a joyful, peaceful atmosphere.” She’s not a shouter? “No, she’s not. She’s hard but not a shouter. She’s very sharp, intelligent and funny.”Cornwell notes Bier’s intelligence too. Effectively, The Night Manager was a hugely complicated six-hour film, he says. “We had a large cast and each of those characters had their own story,” he says. “Susanne was able to keep everyone’s story and the way in which it developed clear and distinct throughout the process. When you’re dealing with 350 pages of script, you need to be very smart about it.”The Night Manager, widely critically acclaimed and a ratings success – it has just finished a successful run on US TV – has proved that Bier can capably take on big-budget action spectaculars. She has said the reason so few women are asked to direct this genre is because producers are “making conventional choices. Whoever chooses the directors of these kinds of things are making comfortable choices as opposed to courageous choices.”Although she has said she hasn’t felt like she has been treated in a different way, she has also been outspoken about the opportunities afforded to women more generally: “In Hollywood there are quite a lot of important female executives but there is still a lack of female directors. It is sad that in society in general there is a lack of females in important positions in all industries. I think it still has to do with many young women having to choose between career and kids. I have two kids and luckily I have never had to make that choice and never wanted to make that choice.”Cornwell says Bier would be “brilliant” as the next director of the James Bond series. “I think she has a real sense of how to create tension and excitement, has a very good sense of how to handle action as well as character. I would love to see a James Bond film that Susanne has directed.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Susanne Bier on the set of Serena, which starred Jennifer Lawrence and Bradley Cooper. Photograph: Courtesy/Rex/ShutterstockCVBorn: Copenhagen, 1960Career: After graduating from the National Film School of Denmark, Bier directed her first film Freud Flytter Hjemmefra (Freud’s Leaving Home). A number of other Danish films followed, including her first commercial hit The One and Only (1999). Her Dogme film Open Hearts (2002) brought international acclaim, followed by Brothers and After the Wedding, which was nominated for an Oscar. Her 2010 film In A Better World won an Oscar. Her foray into Hollywood, with Things We Lost in The Fire, and Serena, haven’t fared as well. Her six-part adaptation of the Le Carre novel The Night Manager aired on UK and US TV this year to critical and commercial success.High point: Winning an Oscar and a Golden Globe for In A Better WorldLow point: There were high expectations for her Hollywood film Serena but it floppedShe says: “I have never been career-minded thinking this is where I want my career to go. I have always been someone who has got hooked on projects and hooked on stories.”They say: “Susanne is a crusader for the truth and has an extraordinarily rigorous compass for what seems natural and plausible as sequential storytelling. I don’t think I have ever worked with a director who has such an incredibly instinctive authority over what she will allow in terms of what she believes” The Night Manager star Tom Hiddleston