Catch up on the episode six recap hereSo near and yet so far. Whose DNA is on sock number two? Why does Taxi Man have “trophies” from women (including Trish) in his locked drawer? Where was Twine Boy the night of the party? Chris Chibnall, the creator of Broadchurch, loved leaving us on a cliffhanger this week and well he might, given there’s only one week to go. Of course, we are meant to think that the rapist is Ed Burnett or Jim Atwood, with Taxi Man and Twine Boy close behind. But this being Broadchurch, there are still dozens of others it could be. It may yet be someone who has barely strayed into our field of vision.Meanwhile, this was a masterclass in the Scandi school of drama – part The Killing, part Midsomer Murders, brilliantly acted, superbly plotted with a sprinkling of humour to keep us distracted from the occasional ham-fisted note. (I have loved the well-meaning attempt to overlay an earnest pseudo-feminist narrative on to this series, but here it was almost deafening.)Miller and Hardy were on fire in the interrogations, tracking our interest with classic exasperated facial expressions. “Who were you hoping to use these on? It wasn’t your wife, was it?” “You left the preparations of your wife’s birthday party so that you could buy condoms to have sex with a waitress?” “Don’t you look at me like that.” And lest we forget something important: Mark Latimer is alive (which means I was wrong about virtually everything last week) and now appears to have wound up the series one story conclusively. “I saw Joe, and I talked to him. There’s nothing now.” Unless ... it does feel as though something is still left to come out. The excellent scene between the vicar and Beth could yet be significant. If the vicar has been one big dog-collared red herring all along that might be almost as annoying as him turning out to be the rapist/murderer-in-chief...       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bloody twine and incriminating images … but is Ed Burnett really the frontrunner? Photograph: Colin Hutton/ITVElsewhere Ed Burnett and Cath Atwood had cracking scenes this week. Viewers have understandably been reading a lot into the roles of Lenny Henry and Sarah Parish; they wouldn’t have taken them unless there was some proper acting involved. Tonight we saw why, and they both did a great job. Cath’s “Forgive me” to Trish was heartbreaking. It’s going to be strange now if her character turns out to be more culpable than she was painted this week. But it’s not beyond the bounds of possibility. (I did wonder if she has been setting up Jim all along, but the timing of the condom purchase brutally put paid to that theory: “It’s the time on the receipt – 5pm on the day of my 50th birthday party.”) I flinched slightly at the unlikelihood of Trish’s daughter organising a Reclaim the Night march, allowing for a cinematographer’s dream scene, but perhaps that’s uncharitable. Having grown up with creepy spycam-fan Ian as her father, the daughter seems suspiciously well-adjusted and balanced. I’m not sure Ian is still a suspect, by the way. He’s too much of a numpty. My top guesses for no particular reason? Old Buffer. (Although he would not have been recording it as he probably doesn’t have a mobile phone, so possibly not.) Taxi Man. (We know he has a secret and is a creep. Could he be the accomplice?) But if I were a betting woman? The vicar. I wondered if that scene was a massive clue. He was disproportionately angry, and he has done so much praying. (I know that’s what vicars are supposed to do, but he has done almost as much praying as Ed Burnett has taken stealth pictures of Trish.) His speech about Mark sounded very Hannibal Lecter: “He is selfish and weak. Part of me wishes he’d succeeded.” Beware the vicar who is disillusioned with prayer. Miller v Hardy: the score so far      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Never have so many facial expressions been so faithfully produced in such a short space of time … Miller and Hardy. Photograph: Colin Hutton/ITVThis was an extraordinary episode for both Hardy and Miller. Never have so many facial expressions been so faithfully and entertainingly produced in such a short space of time. “Take her ticket, tear it up.” “Can’t do that!” “Well, I can!” “You took my advice.” “You know what I realised? I’m too nice, Miller.” Miller’s face! No one does barefaced dismay better than Olivia Colman. Hardy’s scene with the photo-sharing youths was priceless. “You hurt my girl. So from now on I am going to be watching everything you do.” In real life (I imagine) this is totally implausible, but in Broadchurch it’s utterly believable and very Hardy. I just hope he has not compromised any court case by threatening to remove their penises. That is not going to play well if one of them turns out to be the rapist. The best bit? “Thanks for that, Confucius.”Not the usual suspects      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The case for Jim Atwood is strong, with the new evidence from the waitress. But is he too obvious? Photograph: Colin Hutton/ITV“Ed Burnett’s got to be frontrunner.” It initially seemed that way, and now the bloody twine will have his and his daughter’s fingerprints on it. But Ed is too obvious. Twine Boy is guilty of something, though I don’t think it’s Trish’s rape. The case for Jim Atwood is strong, with the new evidence from the waitress. But he’s also too obvious. There are an awful lot of loose ends that need tying up. What’s the significance of the light Trish remembers? (Clearly there was video footage being recorded. Does that point to an accomplice?) Who was in the cottage nearby, and why has that person not been found? We also don’t have a good answer yet as to the timings of the previous rapes, one year apart. Cath Atwood’s absence on those dates is too coincidental. There has to be more of a seasonal link. Hardy and Miller have mentioned the seasonal link but not figured out what it refers to yet. Who is only in Broadchurch at that time of year? Or whose life has something going on around then that might mean they are driven to violence? Life lessonDo not mess with any of Hardy’s relatives if you value your genitals.Trademark Wessex words of wisdom      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Please tell me you’re not the future’ … Maggie Radcliffe’s excellent putdown. Photograph: Colin Hutton/ITV“I don’t call myself a feminist.” “Please tell me you’re not the future... As the Americans say: screw you, petal.” This was excellent and slightly nuts.“We’ve got a few new questions. Do you want to put the shopping down?” I love it when Miller does her “Avon calling!” face when she has actually come to arrest you.“This is quite embarrassing. I installed some spyware on it.” Yes, Ian, it is quite embarrassing. “I will find you and I will cut your tiny little cocks off.” Fist bump.