Born in London in 1970, screenwriter, producer and author Goldman began her writing career aged 16 when she left school and became a journalist, initially working as a showbiz reporter for the Daily Star. That same year she met Jonathan Ross in a nightclub, married him in Las Vegas aged 18 and went on to have three children with him. While the children were young, Goldman published several nonfiction guides for teenagers and, in 2000, her first novel, Dreamworld, before making the switch to films as co-writer on 2007’s Stardust. The movie was the first of several successful screenwriting collaborations with Matthew Vaughn, namely Kick-Ass (2010), X-Men: First Class (2011) and Kingsman: The Secret Service (2015). Her latest project is an adaptation for director Tim Burton of Ransom Riggs’s Miss Peregrine’s Home for Peculiar Children, in cinemas this week.1 | Festival Wilderness, Cornbury Park, Oxon       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fancy a dip? Get yourself down to Wilderness. Photograph: Giles SmithThe focus is on food and experiences, so it’s my dream festival. I’m all about trying something new – my family tease me for my constant booking of things like spoon-carving workshops and stand-up paddle-boarding through east London. We went to Wilderness with our kids (19, 22 and 25) and highlights included lake-swimming, fire-walking, silversmithing, late-night life drawing (turns out I draw better after a couple of margaritas) and a “karaorchestra” session where my younger daughter sang Moon River with a 17-piece orchestra in front of thousands of people. Our best meal was HIX restaurant’s “long-table feast”, which was so lovely that at one point – when an entire marquee full of happy people sharing incredible food started singing along to Mr Blue Sky – I actually burst into tears, which amused my children enormously.2 | Film Train to Busan (2016)       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Train to Busan: ‘genuine fear, artful character drama, humour and emotion’. Photograph: Everett/Rex/ShutterstockMy family always go to the annual FrightFest horror marathon, a film festival in London, and this was easily the 2016 highlight. It’s a Korean film following a father and daughter travelling by train at the start of a zombie outbreak, and deservedly got rave reviews at Cannes. It’s not just one of the finest zombie films I’ve seen, but a genre-transcending masterpiece – and that’s not a word I use lightly. I can’t think of another film of any genre that delivers such huge and equal measures of thrilling action, genuine fear, squirm-in-your-seat tension, artful character drama, humour and emotion. Everybody came out drained and elated and saying it deserved Oscars.3 | TV Mr Robot       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Clever stuff: hacking drama Mr Robot. Photograph: USA Network/Getty ImagesThis is compelling, intelligent TV and I really admire its craft. Chronicling a group of “hacktivists” through an unreliable narrator is a concept that could fall at any number of hurdles, but doesn’t. It’s meticulously researched and the writing is great – pulling off narrative sleight of hand without cheating the audience. I’ve always been fascinated by the idea of hacking. Shortly after getting my first computer as a kid, I recall asking my parents if I could try to hack the government. They said no, so I went back to playing a game where you had to help goats go up a mountain or something. I was not a cool child.4 | Exhibition Nikolai Astrup: Painting Norway at Dulwich Picture Gallery       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Midsummer Eve Bonfire by Nikolai Astrup: ‘You feel like you’re peeking from afar at something magical and forbidden.’ Photograph: Dag Fosse/KODEAstrup is extremely famous in Norway but less known here. His landscape paintings depict childhood memories and the ones of midsummer fire-festival celebrations make you feel like you’re peeking from afar at something magical and forbidden (apparently Astrup’s father thought them too pagan and wouldn’t let him attend). My favourites are his wonderfully spooky scenes of fields of hay drying on poles – filtered through the fertile imagination of a child who imagines them as looking just a little bit more like shadowy figures than they would in real life.5 | Immersive theatre Virtually Dead       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   He’s behind you! Immersive theatre piece Virtually Dead.I love interactive entertainment – “escape-the-room” games, immersive theatre, you name it. Virtually Dead, held in east London, had you undergoing army training during a zombie outbreak. The performances were excellent – especially the amputee actor who got a volunteer to saw off his (prosthetic) leg – and there was a brilliantly integrated virtual reality zombie-shooting session. It was my first experience of next-generation VR and I freaked out like a Victorian cinema-goer seeing a train coming, only with a lot more swearing and frantic firing of handguns. My son had been championing VR for ages, and is currently developing a VR game, so he was delighted that the experience converted the rest of us – we’ve now turned our spare room into a VR gaming space!6 | Podcast Radiolab       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Clickety-click: the deathwatch beetle proved an engaging subject for a Radiolab podcast featuring composer Lin-Manuel Miranda. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoI’m passionate about science and technology and, if I hadn’t become a writer, might have taken one of those paths. But I’m happy to enjoy them vicariously now through my two eldest children – who did – and this very accessible podcast that covers topics in just about every field. Their recent feature on the ethics of the triage process – focusing on the devastating events at a hospital during Hurricane Katrina – was one of the most affecting things I’ve heard in a long time. But they handle lighter topics equally engagingly – an entomology piece earlier this year, for instance, featured a rap by genius Hamilton composer Lin-Manuel Miranda written from the perspective of a female deathwatch beetle.7 | Game Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Fiercely, time-devouringly addictive’: a screen from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft.I feel guilty recommending this computer card-battle game because it’s so fiercely, time-devouringly addictive. I play a few rounds in bed every morning and have lost whole evenings to it. It’s a one-on-one tactical game with all the think-several-moves-ahead-and-second-guess strategy of chess, only you and your opponent are playing with a carefully constructed set of pieces chosen from a pool of about 600, each with its own rules and synergies. I’ve never thought of myself as competitive or aggressive, but since getting into ranked play on Hearthstone, I’ve turned into an iPad wielding, nightie-wearing Muhammad Ali.