Those of you who thought this column had reached what I believe is fondly known as “peak Guardian” with kale chips should look away now – because this week we’ll be turning polenta, the starchy corn porridge beloved of Italian peasants and the British chattering classes, into chips, the crunchy snack cherished by just about everyone from Prato to Preston and beyond.It’s a dangerous game mucking around with one of the world’s most supremely satisfying foods, but put aside your prejudices, because I promise that polenta chips are really, really nice. Hot and crisp, with a creamy interior of satisfying stodginess, they’re basically a carb-lover’s dream (and much quicker to make at home than potato chips). As delicious dunked in a spicy tomato dip as they are served alongside a rich saucy ragu or meaty Italian sausages … even if you think you don’t like polenta, I bet you’ll love these.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A carb-lover’s dream ... BBC Good Food polenta chips. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianThe polentaThe first thing I realise is that, almost two decades after the New Labour revolution, polenta is still hard to get hold of, even in Blair’s former north London manor. The recipes I try call for three different forms of the stuff: ready-prepared, instant (which comes either partially cooked or very finely ground) and ordinary. After visiting three supermarkets and two Italian delicatessens, I find the latter two, but Martha Stewart’s preferred “plain prepared polenta” eludes me.No matter, given, as far as I can tell, the end result for the other two is much the same once you’ve made the stuff into chips. Although instant polenta doesn’t have quite the same depth of corny flavour as the ordinary kind, and tends to have a finer, less interesting texture, here you would be hard pushed to tell the difference. Its principal job in this case is to set firm, and instant does that just as well as artisanal stoneground biodynamic, and in considerably less time, too.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The no-cheese Martha Stewart version. Photograph: The GuardianThe liquidPolenta, particularly the instant variety, can be bland, which is why it’s advisable to cook it in something rather more flavourful to give it a helping hand. Matt Tebbutt suggests a vegetable stock infused with parmesan rind, rosemary and garlic, Yotam Ottolenghi goes for plain chicken stock, while Dan Doherty of Duck and Waffle simmers it in milk. The now sadly defunct Gourmet magazine and the happily very much alive and kicking BBC Good Food keep it simple with water. When making loose polenta, I like the richness of milk and water, but here it makes the texture a little bit soft. Water alone, however, doesn’t deliver enough flavour. My testers come out overwhelmingly in favour of Ottolenghi’s version, although this may have something to do with the fact that Tebbutt’s kilo of polenta absorbs about twice as much liquid as the 1.5 litres called for by the recipe, so, panicking, as the pan hisses and spits, I have to pour in the contents of the kettle as well.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Coated in semolina ... Yotam Ottolenghi’s polenta chips. Photograph: The GuardianFrom experience, chicken stock tends to have a more neutral savoury flavour than the often strongly herbaceous commercial vegetable versions, so it’s generally my preference. Vegetarians or those smug people with a freezer full of homemade stock should suit themselves.The seasoningPolenta’s subtle flavour makes it the perfect vehicle for other ingredients, principally fat-based and preferably cheese. Lots of cheese. Everyone except for Stewart, who’s unable to add anything to her ready-made polenta, melts in grated parmesan, and it’s hard to argue when it tastes so very, very good. (The one thing missing from ordinary potato chips, in my opinion, is cheese, hence the massive popularity of the cheesy chip in late night eateries of my acquaintance.)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Almost a parmesan fritter ... Dan Doherty’s effort. Photograph: The GuardianDoherty adds so much the whole thing becomes as much parmesan fritter as polenta chip – utterly, addictively delicious. However, somewhat reluctantly, we agree that one should probably be able to taste the polenta in something billed as a polenta chip, so I’ve dialled the cheese down a bit in my recipe.Herbs are popular, too. Ottolenghi uses chives; Gourmet and Tebbutt rosemary, the magazine also adding sage for good measure. This is purely a matter of preference, but cheese and chives are a classic combination for a reason. Chilli flakes, I suspect, would work equally well.Tebbutt stirs in a little double cream, and Gourmet finishes it with butter. Both excellent ideas ordinarily where polenta is concerned, but given we’ll be adding fat later in the cooking process by (spoiler) frying them, it doesn’t seem necessary.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Finished with butter ... Gourmet magazine’s polenta chips. Photograph: The GuardianThe cuttingStrictly speaking, Ottolenghi’s recipe is for polenta crisps, rather than chips – he cuts them into thin shards, so they’re super crunchy. I think one of the polenta chip’s great selling points is its slightly gooey, creamy centre, so I’m going to make mine larger, but feel free to go your own way.The coatingOttolenghi coats his chips with semolina before frying, and Tebbutt goes for a proper flour, egg and coarse polenta crumb, which gives his triangles a wonderfully crunchy, sturdy outer layer. This makes a pleasing contrast to the soft stodge within, but the double layer is so robust that testers say it feels more like biting into a scotch egg than a chip. A light dusting of polenta, just enough to crisp up in the pan, but not so much as to coat the chip completely, seems the best bet.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Matt Tebbutt goes for a proper flour, egg and coarse polenta crumb. Photograph: The GuardianThe cooking methodI try deep-frying (Doherty, Tebbutt), shallow-frying (Ottolenghi), pan-frying (BBC Good Food), grilling (Gourmet) and baking (Stewart), and the only one I would advise steering clear of is grilling, which leaves them a bit tough. Baking (220C for about 45 minutes “until golden and crisp”) gives a crunchy, but also slightly dry result, so, as my guinea pigs seem equally happy with the deep-fried and pan-fried textures, I’m going to recommend the latter, on the basis it’s cheaper, safer and possibly slightly better for you, if anything stuffed with cheese and cooked in oil can be classed as better for you. Enjoy in moderation, ideally along with a large glass of chardonnay and a D:Ream soundtrack.The perfect polenta chips      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianServes 4650ml chicken or vegetable stock125g polenta50g finely grated parmesan or other hard, strong cheese3tbsp finely chopped chives50g polenta, to coatExtra virgin olive oil, to fryLine a small baking dish with baking paper. Pour the stock into a medium pan, add 125g of polenta, bring to a simmer and then whisk until smooth. Simmer, stirring all the time, until it thickens and starts to come away from the side of the pan.Stir in the cheese until melted, then add the chives and pour into the baking dish, smoothing it into a flat layer – it should be about 1.5cm thick. Allow to cool completely, and then chill until solid.Cut the polenta into chips of your desired size. Put the remaining 50g of polenta into a shallow dish, then turn each chip in it to lightly coat. Put the oven on low.Cover the bottom of a frying pan with oil, and put it over a medium-high heat. Fry the chips in batches until golden brown on all sides, then drain on kitchen paper and keep warm in the oven until all the polenta is used up. Serve hot.Polenta chips – as delicious as a fried carb can be, or an offence to all decent potato-based versions? And, for the open minded among you, which other alternatives to the traditional spud are worth a try?