Testing times for the Academy, which totally assumed it had done its bit for That Stuff when it awarded Crash the Oscar for best picture in 2006. Easily the worst winner of that award ever (tough field), the movie was a thoughtless – and indeed artless – liberal wank, where the takeout message seemed to be that some kind of excruciatingly simplistic dialogue about race was America’s fast-track ticket to harmony.Far too grand for such fripperies as story or characters, Crash instead consisted of the interaction of unintentionally caricatured ideas, and suggested that the US’s racial problems were basically rooted in an endless series of self-defeating misapprehensions by individuals.And the Oscar boycott award goes to Spike and Jada and Snoop | Dreda Say Mitchell Awards-wise, then, it fell on fertile Hollywood ground. Don’t forget that four years previously, the Academy had been so delighted with its decision to give both Halle Berry and Denzel Washington best actress and best actor respectively that it had opted to sledgehammer its point home by wheeling out Sidney Poitier – Mr Sidney Poitier, as David Brent called him – to receive an honorary Oscar. Congratulations, Academy! Oh, and Sidney.Yet it was the Oscars graciously recognising Crash with its most prestigious award that constituted official confirmation that the US had graduated to a “post-racial” society. So if you’re catching up with the succeeding decade or so on tape delay, consider this a SPOILER ALERT. Because as things would turn out, there remain just a few loose ends to be tied up on that front.Rather less important than many of the others is the issue of apparently whitewashed showbiz awards – nevertheless, in the circumstances, it matters. As any regular readers of this column may be aware, Lost in Showbiz thinks all award ceremonies are nonsense. But if they have to happen – and evidently they do, multiplying preposterously every year – then it’s fair to say that an unofficial whites-only policy is increasingly eye-catching. And given it has been deeply eye-catching for 50 years, and fairly eye-catching for many people before then, that is now very eye-catching indeed.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Will Smith on Oscars boycott: ‘It’s going the wrong direction’So it’s hard to know what to feel less encouraged by: the Academy failing to include a single nominee of colour in any of the major award categories for the second year on the bounce, or the tumult of internet-based geniuses who greeted Jada Pinkett Smith’s consequent suggestion of a boycott by inquiring: “In that case, should white people boycott the 100m final?” (If it helps, I definitely think brainiacs who ask this question should boycott all sport, and arguably all food and water. I see them as “post-resources”.)As indicated, the reaction in some quarters has been pronounced. Few could be more mortified than Academy president Cheryl Boone Isaacs herself, a black woman who sought to make the awards inclusive after last year’s embarrassment, and now vows to make “drastic changes”.Spike Lee has said he won’t be attending this year, generously tempering his distaste with the pace of progress with the caveat that “We can’t say hocus pocus, presto change-o and the membership’s going to change overnight”. Selma star David Oyelowo, meanwhile, counters the suggestion that change is always glacial, suggesting that in 1965 the Voting Rights Act was passed in months, when many had predicted it would take years. (As for where he made this short and excellent speech, I have to tell you it was at – where else? – an awards ceremony, at which he was handing Boone Isaacs a humanitarian award. Rather like Will.i.am and Leonardo DiCaprio receiving humanitarian awards of their own at the World Economic Forum this week, the moment serves as another reminder that almost all awards are basically designed to make already rich and successful people feel even better about themselves. But the total lack of representation of $30,000-a-year humanitarian workers in humanitarian awards nominations is one for a different column.)As for the other side of the debate, it has tantalisingly yet to elicit a vital intervention from Rupert Murdoch, who a year or so ago reacted to casting criticism of Fox’s Moses movie with a rhetorical masterclass. “Since when are Egyptians not white?” he demanded. “All I know are.”Though the strain of Hollywood the Fox overlord embodies has yet to get up a reactionary #AllNomineesMatter campaign, the form book suggests it may not be comfortable with being questioned as it has been this week. Indeed, in a town where you go to rehab for antisemitism, and where Michael Jackson could easily avail himself of a doctor to give him a general anaesthetic every time he fancied a nap, it is no surprise to find that not voting for black people has been almost clinicalised. Last year, when the major Oscar categories also failed to feature nominees of colour, industry insiders cited big wins for 12 Years a Slave the year previously, and spoke of something called “racial fatigue”. Hey – like Chazz Michael Michaels says of sex addiction in the also-overlooked cinematic masterpiece Blades of Glory: it’s a real disease, with doctors and medicine and everything.Furthermore, there was a keenly felt sense of victimhood – not among the descendants of slaves, you understand, nor among those who still found themselves at the sharp end of race relations, but among some white Academy voters who apparently felt “demonised” by this sort of fare. And with Academy membership running at last count as 94% white, 77% male and 86% aged over 50, that’s potentially a lot of demonisation.Then again, as a hivemind, we know the Academy is endlessly self-regarding in its conceptions about itself. Have you noticed how it is always engaged in that most noble and epochal of tasks – “making history”? It “made history” the night it gave Halle and Denzel their statuettes, when anyone else could see that it palpably trailed history in this respect. How many years after the first black Fortune 500 CEO or chairman will we see the first black studio head? We have yet to discover. But when the moment comes, I’m sure the studio in question will let us know via the announcement that it is “proud to be making history” in this way. Well done, studio! Or rather, well done in advance.Still, with no sign of the row dying down, this year’s Oscars are not without possibilities for those who crave disruption. Indeed, with Chris Rock booked to host – live, of course – it is hoped that organisers will have some of the town’s leading racial fatigue specialists on standby in the medical tent.