With March just around the corner, it’s about now that every gardener starts getting cabin fever. There is only so much peering at snowdrops, sniffing scented daphnes and admiring frosted leaves you can do before the desire to start sowing seeds with abandon sets in.Be careful what you sow, though: it’s still too early for many seeds, which need spring to be in full flow before they sprout. That’s where half-hardy annuals come in. These are the more exotic, tender cousins of hardy annuals: both flower, set seed and die in the course of one year, but the half-hardy types need to be started indoors and planted out only once the risk of frost has passed. That means cosseting them on a sunny windowsill and faffing about with pricking out and transplanting; but you get loads of plants for very little outlay, and a tantalising range of colours and forms.Seeds worth tryingTickseed (Coreopsis) is one of my favourite flowers: it’s easy to grow, producing profuse sunny yellow, red and orange blooms until the first frosts. Some tickseeds are perennial, but there are annuals, too, and this year I am trying new cultivar C. tinctoria ‘Radiata Tigrina’ from Chiltern Seeds, with tiger-striped yellow and mahogany-red petals. The widely available ‘Incredible’ mix has bicoloured flowers with a dark red centre surrounded by cream, yellow or red. It comes in dwarf or tall sizes.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sow winter purslane for salads. Photograph: AlamyChiltern Seeds also sells wonderful tagetes called ‘Tangerine Gem’. Tagetes tenuifolia is more elegant than its African or French marigold relatives, with finely cut leaves and lashings of small orange (or yellow, if you go for ‘Lemon Gem’) flowers.The ultimate multipurpose half-hardy annual has to be amaranth. The young leaves are good in salads or as a spinach substitute, the tassel-like flowers are decorative fresh and dried, and the seeds are high in protein and gluten-free. Although Amaranthus caudatus, known as love lies bleeding, has been a popular ornamental for years, amaranths bred for eating are catching up. For leaf amaranth try ‘Kerala Red’ or ‘Calaloo’ from Real Seeds. For flowers and seeds, try ‘Oeschberg’ from Seedaholic.All these seeds can be sown from now until April, in a tray kept at around 18-20C on a sunny windowsill covered with clear plastic, or ideally in a heated propagator. If you can bear it, wait until March to sow, as stronger seedlings result from the increasing light levels. Prick them out into individual pots when big enough to handle, and plant outside only once there is no risk of frost.Give houseplants an MOT Indoor plants should start to show signs of growth now. Check if they are potbound by gently lifting the plant from its container: tightly wound roots covering the surface mean they need to go into a pot the next size up. They’ll also get a boost from seaweed fertilisers: Chase SM3 liquid seaweed feed or Maxicrop Organic Flower & Houseplant Natural Fertiliser are ideal. If they’re not in need of potting on, mulch the soil surface with gravel or pebbles: this helps get rid of fungus gnats and reduce surface evaporation. Shiny leaved plants benefit from gentle cleaning with a damp rag (or an old T-shirt); use a clean makeup brush on hairy or spiny plants.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   If indoor plants die on you, try zamioculcas, available fromIkea. Photograph: AlamyDon’t be afraid to compost plants that are looking irredeemably sad, pest-infested or half-dead, and buy new: on my wishlist is the fishbone cactus (Epiphyllum anguliger), which has interesting “rickrack” leaves and gorgeous white flowers (from House of Plants and Cactus Shop). If you have trouble keeping indoor plants alive, you are safest with the ZZ plant (Zamioculcas zamiifolia, available from Ikea). This plant won’t flower, but its architectural form and glossy green leaves, along with its unfussy nature make it perfect for modern homes.Waste not, want notEven cheaper windowsill fun comes from growing plants from veg tops, pips, stones and seeds saved from the food waste bin. Garlic cloves and onions that start to sprout will grow green tops when placed in water: these onion greens can be snipped off to make a tasty addition to salads and stir-fries. Invest in Don’t Throw It, Grow It by Deborah Peterson, for a guide to sprouting everything from mango stones to fenugreek seeds.It’s a bit early to sow most veg outside. Claytonia, or winter purslane, and lamb’s lettuce are extremely hardy, however, so try sowing some in trays in a cold frame or polytunnel, or under fleece outside. Another flavoursome, cold-hardy cut-and-come-again option is salad endive: Real Seeds’ ‘Bianca Riccia da Taglio’ is particularly recommended for very early sowings.Cut the grassesIf you must get something done outside, cut down deciduous ornamental grasses left standing over winter, such as calamagrostis, hakonechloa and deschampsia. Don’t be precious: use a hedge trimmer or shears to cut the stems at the base; or cut the plants down in sections a few centimetres long and allow them to fall around the grasses as a soil-enhancing, weed-suppressing mulch.Evergreen grasses such as grey-blue fescue (Festuca glauca) and carex just need a tidy-up: use your hands to comb through the foliage, pulling away dead stems.