The central runway survives and the wartime buildings are still standing. Woodhall Spa airfield in Lincolnshire, once the home of the famous 617 "Dambusters" squadron, lies amid the gouged landscape of sand and gravel extraction works.Almost 70 years after the heavy bomber squadron left the base, the site is overgrown. But a new mission aims to save the historic runway and create a haven of peace and tranquillity where once some of the second world war's most destructive sorties were launched and carried out by RAF aircrew, so many of whom were never to return.The plan is for a pastoral landscape with skylarks singing overhead, farmland birds such as linnets and yellowhammers, and birds of prey soaring silently in the open skies where Lancasters and Mosquitoes once flew.For the first time since the airfield was mothballed, the public will be able to stand where Guy Gibson, who led the 1943 Dambusters raid, took off on his last, fatal mission in September 1944, and where Leonard Cheshire, the most highly decorated bomber pilot of the war, was squadron commander, forming such an attachment to the base he took the title Baron Cheshire of Woodhall when accepting a life peerage in 1991.Lincolnshire Wildlife Trust is now seeking to raise £500,000 to buy the airfield from Cemex, the construction firm, in an attempt to conserve "a site of importance for our natural heritage".A trust spokeswoman said: "We believe that the creation of a new nature reserve will be a fitting tribute to the many servicemen and women who gave their lives to preserve and protect our green and pleasant land."The trust purchased 300 acres (120 hectares) of the former airfield last year, and now hopes to buy the rest through grant funding and donations.Adders, tree pipits, woodlarks and wheatears are among numerous species expected to thrive on the landscape of sandy soils, acid grassland, heathland and marsh. Other species in the area include the rare variable damselfly, bog bush crickets, common cotton grass and lousewort. A colony of 200 bee orchids has been found thriving in one small, neglected corner of the quarry. Other meadow plants include speedwell, cranesbill, oxeye daisy, lady's bedstraw, bird's-foot trefoil and southern marsh orchid.The Dambusters set up home in Woodhall Spa in 1944, after the 1943 raids that earned them their sobriquet – as well as the nickname "suicide squadron" – and stayed until the end of hostilities. From here the use of the huge, 12,000lb Tallboy and Grand Slam bombs were pioneered. The German battleship Tirpitz was sunk in Tromsø fjord by aircraft which took off from Woodhall Spa and Bardney.Chris Williams, 64, a former history teacher and deputy headteacher whose father, John Williams, was a Lancaster bomber pilot at Woodhall Spa under Cheshire, said turning the site into a nature reserve was an "absolutely superb" idea. Now an international schools partnership consultant, Williams moved to Nettlesham in Lincolnshire long after his father's death, aged 63, in 1981."It is interesting that Bomber Command, like those in the Arctic convoys, are recently being remembered in a positive way," he said."They were doing a rather gritty, not very pleasant job. Bomber Command, of course, were killing large numbers of people by the nature of what they did: whatever the target was, there would be civilians right there as well."His father flew 45 missions, and with the chances of survival so small, was one of the lucky ones. Around 55,000 members of Bomber Command lost their lives."The runway is still there. Some of the other runways are now industrial estates, or under housing, or subsumed back into farmland," said Williams."It won't take very long for nature to reclaim it. What I am imagining, in about five years' time, is being there perhaps at sunset, because the flights very often took off in the early evening so they were over their targets in Germany in the middle of the night. I can imagine myself being there, and I suspect one will sense the presence of the people. I can sense that there may just be something going on beyond the nature and the peace and quiet in this big empty space, so you can almost see the bombers trundling off, knowing that so many of them did not come back."It will be a commemoration and celebration of the past. The scrub will come back. I imagine there will be a very big empty space and you will hear the larks and probably see at the edge of a tree the owls coming out, as they do around here. It will be lovely."If it raises the funding, the trust aims to develop footpaths and hides on the site. "Alongside the huge benefits for wildlife, local people will have the chance to be involved. New footpaths and hides will allow visitors to share in the unique atmosphere of open countryside – its spaciousness and serenity," said a trust spokesman.