A year ago on this blog, Robbie Blackhall-Miles wrote a post entitled Is crowdfunding the future of horticulture? Judging by the number of garden-based crowdfunding calls I am getting these days, crowdfunding is certainly becoming an alternative way of getting difficult-to-fund but important projects off the ground. Here are five garden-related crowdfunding projects you should know about:Gardening at Yarl’s Wood (target: £5,000)What is it? A social and therapeutic gardening project for the women at Yarl’s Wood. The prohect would convert the current uninspiring gardens at Yarl’s Wood Immigration Removal Centre in Bedfordshire into places for female immigration detainees to sow, plant, weed and dig. Who’s behind it? Emma Dagless set up Thyme to Grow community interest company in January last year. She has been been a Yarl’s Wood Befriender for two and a half years, and has a career background in plant science, horticulture and project management.Why give? “Gardening will provide an opportunity for women to experience many of the feelings that detention denies them; purpose and meaning; planning, decision making, problem solving and creativity; responsibility, ownership, self-expression and achievement,” Dagless says. Daddy Daughter Farm (target: £12,999)What is it? A project to turn an overgrown plot of Bristol City Council land into a productive market garden that brings together parents, their toddlers and elders on to a farm to garden, cook food, share lunches and build community. Members will take home a small veg box of our organic produce every week. Who’s behind it? Tim, a stay-a-home dad, and his daughter Noa, on Twitter as @daddaughterfarm.Why give? Daddy Daughter Farm aims to tackle loneliness by bringing elders and toddlers together through gardening Bottle of Ginger (target: £10,000)What is it? Bottle of Ginger’s aspiration is to establish a Community Drinks Company in Bridgeton, Glasgow - a micro-brewery, community manufactory and series of urban micro farms producing a range of local community drinks. Who’s behind it? Natalia Jenger and Louisa Winning used a previously derelict piece of land at Urban Edge to grew herbs, cucumbers, melons, roots and flowers which they juiced, infused, extracted and brewed learning the basics of making drinks with natural ingredients.Why give? Bottle of Ginger hopes to change the local ‘juice’ culture by by re-defining the product and by re-thinking the processes involved in soft drinks manufacturing. They plan to get the local community involved in growing ingredients, developing, designing and producing better drinks. Ouseburn Farm Charity (target: £30,000)What is it? A free-to-visit working farm situated right in the heart of Newcastle’s inner city. Who’s behind it? Ouseburn Farm Charity welcomes schoolchildren, local residents and vulnerable or disadvantaged people. Why give? “The more pledges we receive the longer the farm can remain at the heart of our community. More donations mean more workshops for school children, more opportunities for local families to enjoy a unique experience and more opportunities for vulnerable adults to grow and achieve their goals.”Teeny Greeny Urban Farm Crowdfunder (target: £3,000)What is it? A fundraiser to enable the Teeny Greeny Urban Farm to produce organic food intensively for local people using unused or derelict spaces.Who’s behind it? Urban gardener Lee Morgan-Geer runs are a multi-locational farm operating on less than an acre of land: made up of back gardens, fields and spaces rented from homeowners.Why give? The money raised will go towards equipment, marketing, seed purchase and helping a school to set up an urban farm.What have I missed?Let me know in the comments below if there are crowdfunding projects you feel deserve a mention.