When Lars Eidinger first appeared as a careerist Nazi officer in the BBC’s recent TV show SS-GB, some drama critics snapped their pencils in despair. Here was one of Europe’s finest young actors, already hailed as one of the great Hamlets of the 21st century, cheapening himself as a cartoon Nazi, complete with creaky leather trench coat, shiny boots and skull-and-crossbones cap. And all that for a series with a whiff of Brexit agitprop about it, as the new German rulers of Britain rhapsodise about “citizens of a united Europe” while plotting expansions for Siemens and Bosch.But by last Sunday’s final episode of this alt-history of the second world war, something had changed. Eidinger’s SS officer, Oskar Huth, who had stormed into post-Battle of Britain London as a snappy workaholic, had quietly transformed into a world-weary existentialist, overcome by the futility of it all yet stoically refusing a blindfold as he faces the firing squad. It was an audacious heist of a performance: even the Daily Telegraph thought the Nazi had stolen the show.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stealing the show … Lars Eidinger as the sinister officer Huth in SS-GB. Photograph: Laurie Sparham/BBC/Sid Gentle Films“In the past, I’ve turned down a lot of Nazi-era roles because I think we Germans should approach that era with a lot more responsibility than we do,” says Eidinger, slicing through a schnitzel at the Schleusenkrug cafe in Berlin’s Tiergarten park. “Watching well-fed actors re-enact scenes from a concentration camp repulses me.”What he found tempting about SS-GB, he says, is that the material was “obviously a fiction”, and the Third Reich setting became above all a vehicle for exploring conflicts between power and resistance. “And of course, it is extremely tempting to play a real villain. In Germany, the Nazis still cramp us up, rightly so, but the Brits have this unbridled fascination with the aesthetics of the Third Reich.” When he turned up on the set in his full leather outfit, he recalls, all the British extras wanted to take pictures with him.Personal Shopper review – Kristen Stewart is truly captivating | Peter Bradshaw's film of the week Seductive evil is the 41-year-old’s speciality. His crystal-blue-eyed stare is currently unsettling an even wider audience, thanks to modern ghost movie Personal Shopper, in which Eidinger plays Ingo, a journalist whose brief encounter with Kristen Stewart’s protagonist has a subtle menace that lingers throughout the film.His portrayal of the ultimate irresistible villain, Shakespeare’s Richard III, left audiences charmed and outraged in equal measure when he visited the Barbican last month in a Thomas Ostermeier production originally devised for Berlin’s Schaubühne theatre, where he has been part of the ensemble since 2000. In Germany, most people know him as a postman-turned-murderer in the popular Sunday evening crime series Tatort. Two years ago, in the film Dora or The Sexual Neuroses of our Parents, he played a man who has a sexual relationship with a mentally disabled woman.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Spectators either left or started shouting at him … Lars Eidinger as Richard lll. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianIt comes as no surprise to hear his dream role would be the baddie in a James Bond film, though he thinks he’s jinxed his chances by announcing it. “One of the great advantages of my job is that you can’t really plan your career. I wrote a letter to Lars von Trier telling him how much I wanted to work with him and he never even wrote back. And then other directors you admire suddenly get in touch, out of the blue. When I started out, my wife told me to piss into my little corner until it starts to stink. And she was right.”The secret behind the stellar trajectory of Eidinger’s career may have a lot to do with the fact that he hasn’t just taken his wife’s advice metaphorically. For productions at the Schaubühne, he has urinated into a sink on stage, pushed sausages up his behind and, in Ostermeier’s A Midsummer Night’s Dream, ventriloquised Puck’s monologue through his penis.He frequently improvises and veers off script. When his Hamlet reached London in 2011, Eidinger’s Dane wandered into the auditorium and ripped up a critic’s notepad. Meanwhile, his Richard III threw chocolate mousse into the Duke of Buckingham’s face and tried to enlist the audience in a chant of “You look like shit today, have you not eaten any pussy?” until spectators either left or shouted at him. “It’s like a form of Tourette’s: if I can see that someone has a problem, I have to confront it.” In terms of what I have the courage to do, there's no one else out there After one show in the same run, a fellow cast member told him he would break his arm if he ever spat in his face again. “That sort of thing annoys me,” the Berlin-born actor says. “I don’t get it. Break my arm then, but at least do it on the stage.” The next day, he spat in his colleague’s face again. “My great quality is that I have found a way of acting which makes you aware of the risk involved,” he says. “Here is an actor who is willing to risk the whole thing blowing up in his face, because he’s improvising without knowing where it will end. In terms of what I have the courage to do, there’s not really anyone else out there. Productions I am not involved in lack that same radicalism.”Along with Sandra Hüller (Toni Erdmann) and Nina Hoss (Barbara), he is a graduate of the Ernst Busch Academy of the Dramatic Arts. Located in former East Berlin, it used to have a reputation for churning out technically flawless but slightly soulless performers. But in Eidinger, technical ability has become wedded to an almost mystical belief in radical self-expression.“People think acting is all about dazzling the audience and disguising yourself: lying, basically. In fact, the opposite is true. I try to be as present as possible when I’m acting. I don’t try to use the role as a mask I hide behind, but as a vehicle for expressing myself.”Eidinger’s SS officer Huth starts out as a man of the shadows – popping up unexpectedly at every turn, breathing at the end of every phone line – but by the end of SS-GB he looks as if he has grown tired of the eternal game of bluff and double bluff. It’s a perfect fit an actor who, for all his boyish charm, seems allergic to false modesty. Does he never worry that he will be found out one day, or that he’ll run out of steam? “Luckily I don’t feel that way. With me, it’s more a kind of arrogance or hubris that I worry that people only get to see a tiny fragment of my talent. One day, I always think, I’ll get the role that allows me to show what I am capable of – and then I’ll win an Oscar.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lars Eidinger at the Schaubühne, Berlin. Photograph: Derek Hudson/Getty ImagesOne wonders how that attitude went down with self-effacing British actors he had to share a set with. Eidinger says he had always been a fan of his UK counterpart in the film, Sam Riley, and he studied Benedict Cumberbatch’s Sherlock in preparation for his own lines. Ironically, given the complaints about BBC actors mumbling, what fascinates him about British actors is how fast they talk, “how little effort there is behind it”.But Eidinger wouldn’t be Eidinger if he could leave it there. A lot of British actors, he says, are content copying something they have seen on a stage or in a film before: “I end up feeling that what I have just seen wasn’t really an actor’s personality, but an actor working his way through the history of British drama and the interpretative history of the respective play. I rarely feel: that’s a real person there, and he is opening himself and making himself vulnerable. Due to their virtuosity, they come across as very much trapped in a form that makes them unassailable.”Eidinger’s best performance in film to date remains his turn in Toni Erdmann director Maren Ade’s second feature, Everyone Else, a romantic drama about a young couple holidaying on Sardinia. His character Chris is a far cry from officer Huth or King Richard: an introspective architect with a receding hairline and a soft belly, paralysed by doubts about his career and his relationship.It suggests that the secret behind all those villains is not just their hard edges, but their deep insecurities. While Eidinger has little doubt in his talent as an actor, he remains unsure whether it actually means that much. “I like being an artist, but I also know how vain that is, because I am not going to make much of a difference.”Lunch over, he puts down his knife and fork. “Even great artists and geniuses like Shakespeare or Brecht weren’t able to make a difference politically, in spite of the fact that they predicted everything. We watch and reflect and yet nothing changes. How sobering and frustrating is that?”