Navy helicopter starts new career as holiday home A century ago this year, Lloyd George introduced conscription. Many of those called up started to get square meals for the first time in their lives. The nutritional challenges of today’s recruits are very different, but unhappy diners have been given a ticking off for posting images of unappetising meals.Reports this week of poor food quality at the naval shore establishment HMS Sultan and elsewhere must be taken seriously by the top brass. It should understand full well the relationship between food and the morale of those they lead.In 1986, newly qualified, I was appointed medical officer to a frigate. Chips, I declared, were unhealthy, and I took steps to replace fried food with healthy options. Sadly, the ship’s company did not share my enthusiasm, and threatened to replace me.The tension between providing what the authorities consider a proper and balanced diet and the expectations of diners most probably continues to this day. I recently stayed at HMS Sultan as a reservist, and while it wasn’t the Ritz, the choice and quality of food were perfectly fine.As you might expect, the quality of food in the armed forces is regulated by government standards. Personnel serving in the UK are provided with the option of three healthy and nutritionally balanced core meals every day at a cost price. Importantly, given that the military is by no means immune to the modern scourge of obesity, this includes plenty of fruit and veg. It is true to say that chefs vary, some achieving miracles on a shoestring, some less so. However, on active service abroad and in the UK, my experience is that food is generally a plus point for life in the armed forces. The men and women of our armed forces do an incredible job – the very least we can do is feed them well. I’m encouraged that the daily diet for personnel serving on operations and exercises provides a minimum of 4,000 calories a day, the recommended daily allowance for those undertaking strenuous activities.In fact, all the indications are that the Ministry of Defence takes food procurement very seriously, taking into account not just nutritional requirements and appeal, but ethical and sustainable values. Wherever they are competitive, full consideration is now given to procuring British products.Nevertheless, nothing hacks people off more than shoddy food. I would expect the questions that have been raised by servicemen in the navy over the standard of catering to be investigated urgently. Indeed, there appears now to be a sufficient bow wave of unhappiness about food from social media to justify a comprehensive review.The men and women of our armed forces do an incredible job, often in extreme conditions, frequently putting their lives on the line. The very least we can do is feed them well.