Instagram, with its Kardashian selfies, retro filters and endless stream of images of meals, has reached 400 million active users, the company has announced. Facebook’s photo and video-sharing app has added 100 million users in the last nine months, with three-quarters now based outside the US.“While milestones like this are important, what really excites us is the way that visual communication makes the world feel a little bit smaller to every one of us,” the company said in a blog post, revealing that its fastest-growing countries include Brazil, Japan and Indonesia.Instagram launched in October 2010, and eyebrows were raised throughout the technology industry 18 months later when Facebook agreed to pay $1bn for the app, which at the time had 30 million registered users. Instagram has been allowed to continue running as a separate company, and it has since flourished. It reached 100 million active users in February 2013, 200 million in March 2014, and then 300 million last December.In terms of active mobile users, Instagram still lags behind its parent company’s 1.3 billion, as well as Facebook-owned apps WhatsApp (900m) and Facebook Messenger (700m). But it remains ahead of Twitter’s 316 million monthly active users.Another rival, Snapchat, claims 100 million daily active users, but has not published a monthly figure that is directly comparable with Instagram. But it is these two apps that are building the biggest, most engaged audiences among teenagers and twentysomethings. Instagram recently announced that it has 14 million users in the UK and research firm GlobalWebIndex estimates that 38.4% of them are between 16-24.“Instagram remains one of the fastest-growing networks in the UK, with a younger user base than any of the other major networks,” said Jason Mander of GlobalWebIndex. “Given that Facebook itself has lost a little of its appeal among young demographics, Instagram’s continuing success among this age group is great news for Mark Zuckerberg.”What Instagram and Snapchat have in common is their emphasis on photos and videos rather than text, even though Facebook and Twitter have been working hard to improve their photography and video-sharing features.“Pictures are being used for talking. So when you see your children taking a zillion photos of things that you would never take a picture of, it’s because they’re using photographs to talk,” said Snapchat’s chief executive, Evan Spiegel, in a recent video posted online to explain the app to parents.“Both teens and kids are a very aspirational audience and images are a much more powerful – or at least immediate – channel for that sentiment to flow compared with one hundred and forty text characters,” said Dylan Collins, chief executive of children’s digital media firm SuperAwesome. He predicted that the growth of Instagram and Snapchat may be one of the biggest threats to the future of Twitter, which is “barely on the radar” of most teenagers.“I suspect that Twitter really doesn’t appreciate how important it is to engage the younger audience with their product. The kids’ market will kill the future of your product if you don’t make it relevant for them,” he said. “Facebook have been strategically light-years ahead in this respect with their Instagram and WhatsApp acquisitions. It’s entirely possible that the death of Twitter actually started a couple of years ago without the company even realising.”Instagram has become a haven for celebrities and public figures. Kim Kardashian posted her infamous #BreakTheInternet nude shot from her Instagram account, although more recently she was issued with a warning letter by the US regulator the FDA for posting a “false or misleading” Instagram post promoting the morning-sickness drug Diclegis.Many of the most popular Instagram accounts belong to musicians such as Beyoncé, Taylor Swift and Justin Bieber. Instagram has also created its own stars, who have followers in the millions – and can earn six-figure salaries from commercial endorsements, where they are paid to publish posts featuring particular products or services.“Companies have realised that one photo on the Instagram account of someone with over 100,000 followers is reaching more people directly than any traditional ad campaign,” said US Instagrammer Liz Eswein in November 2014, as she revealed that she charged brands $1 per like under her sponsored photos.With 400 million users, Instagram’s current challenge is to make money for itself from this huge audience. The company started accepting its first paid advertisements in the US in 2013, before expanding to the UK in September 2014 with brands including Waitrose and Channel 4.Research firm eMarketer predicts that Instagram’s global advertising revenues will be $600m this year, rising to $1.48bn in 2016 and $2.81bn in 2017.