“My name is Fox Mulder. Since my childhood I’ve been obsessed by a controversial global phenomenon.”The new X-Files miniseries starts on 24 January on Fox in the US, and will be showing in early February in the UK on Channel 5. As posted by X-Files site Do You Still Believe?, Mulder’s opening monologue in the first minute also serves as a handy recap of the show’s premise. We are reminded that Fox Mulder (David Duchovny) has believed in UFOs and a far-reaching alien conspiracy since his sister disappeared when they were kids; he joined the FBI as a way to keep searching for her as an adult. Working out of the FBI’s X-Files department, along the way he encounters a lot of other spooky stuff. His new partner, Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson), was initially the scientific rationalist sent to curb his enthusiasm for paranormal explanations, but she finds it hard to maintain that level of scepticism when she’s dealing with X-Files every week; by the end, they’re pretty much on the same page.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest If you’re planning on reacquainting yourself with the Cigarette Smoking Man, black oil, the Lone Gunmen and the rest of the men in black/government alien coverup conspiracy before it starts, the repeats are out there – in the UK, Amazon Prime is streaming all nine seasons; it’s on Hulu in the US. There’s a lot to get through: 202 episodes (plus two films). So, here’s a quick primer.Pilot   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “Agent Mulder, I’m Dana Scully, I’ve been assigned to work with you …”Beyond the Sea   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Where Mulder had aliens, Scully had God; their different versions of faith and belief provided some of the most interesting personal tension between the two as the series went on. This season-one episode had a great performance from Brad Dourif as a serial killer who claimed his clairvoyant powers allowed him to speak to Scully’s late father. Home   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The X-Files also took in some of the darker tropes from horror. This episode made more than the most of its deserted-house premise to mine one of our most primal fears: something under the bed.EBE   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest That’s Extra Biological Entity (a bit like a grownup ET). Mulder gets tantalisingly close to the truth in an episode that also introduces Langly, Frohike and Byers AKA the Lone Gunmen, probably the only people in The X-Files who know more about conspiracy theories than Mulder.Bad Blood   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “It’s obviously not a vampire.” “Why not?” “Well, because they don’t exist?” Some people with very large incisors have the duo thinking otherwise.Squeeze   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest An early freak-of-the-week episode that proved The X-Files was more than capable of coming up with some intriguing urban myths of its own.Drive   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A one-off that riffs on the film Speed (a man hijacks a car with Mulder in it, insisting that he will die if the car slows down) – Drive is also now notable for being the first time X-Files writer Vince Gilligan spotted Bryan Cranston; he remembered him when he was casting Walter White in Breaking Bad.The Host   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Fears about radiation fallout from Chernobyl and the idea that there might be things living in the sewers combine to great effect for Flukeman, a distinctive looking sewer-dweller. Triangle   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Never afraid of taking on the big guns of the paranormal, Mulder and Scully venture into the Bermuda Triangle, and find themselves in a weird time-travel alternative reality.Musings of a Cigarette-Smoking Man   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest An insight into the backstory of one of the series’ most enigmatic characters. Played with relish by William B Davis – who is returning for the new episodes – it turns out the sinister Cancer Man has been working on the shady side of FBI since the JFK assassination.X Cops   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest By season seven, Chris Carter and the team were more than confident enough to play with the form of the show. Here, they teamed up with reality show Cops for a postmodern twist. See also Jose Chung’s From Outer Space.Paper Clip   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Truth or answers? That’s the question explored in the season-three finale, as The X-Files’ internal mythology ramps up a gear with an episode that takes in Nazi scientists, Mulder’s parents, the smallpox vaccination conspiracy, UFOs and a showdown with Skinner (Mitch Pileggi – another member of the returning cast).