London’s congestion charge zone would by made “smarter and more flexible” and more expensive to enter if the capital elects a Liberal Democrat mayor on 5 May. A new report by the party’s mayoral candidate Caroline Pidgeon recommends a rise in the daily charge collected by automated payment from the current £10.50 to £13 with a higher automated charge of £19 on vehicles entering the zone “at the height of the rush hour” in order to deter traffic from entering the centre of the city. In what Pidgeon describes as a potential “game changer” in tackling London’s high levels of air pollution she would also slap an additional flat-rate of £2.50 on all diesel-powered vehicles subject to the charge, claiming that this would bring forward the benefits of the forthcoming Ultra Low Emission Zone, which is not scheduled to be activated until 2020. She argues that these measures recognise an increase in congestion levels in recent years and that differential pricing would reflect variations in the degree of congestion at different times of day. Although Pidgeon’s definition of the rush hour peak would be kept under review she anticipates that the higher charge rate would initially apply between 7:00 and 9:30 in the morning and between 4:00 and 6:00 in the evening.Non-diesel drivers not registered with the CC Autopay system, who presently number just over a quarter of those who pay the charge, would pay £14 or £20. Pidgeon would encourage greater take up of CC Autopay by abolishing the current £10 registration fee and introducing a free app. At the same time, she would increase price of not paying the charge within 24 hours from £14 to £25. Other anti-congestion measures recommended in the report include working with borough councils to form a separate, pilot congestion charge zone around Heathrow airport (and possibly other local schemes to follow) and introducing a “work place parking levy” in Central London and Canary Wharf to further discourage car use yet also create the potential to raise, according to Pidgeon, £52m a year from those drivers prepared to pay it. Pidgeon has published her report in her capacity as a Lib Dem member of the London Assembly - a post she is seeking re-election to as well as running for mayor - but her proposals will be included in her manifesto for the City Hall top job. The transport spokesperson for the Assembly’s Lib Dem group, she points out that “congestion is not just a huge inconvenience but also damaging to peoples’ health,” and that higher charges will restore the deterrent effect the charging zone had when introduced by Ken Livingstone in February 2003. Using figures published by Transport for London her report records that “the overall level of traffic entering the zone in 2006 was 16% lower than in 2002” and that in June 2007 “the number of chargeable vehicles entering the zone had reduced by 30% and that there had been an increase in the number of buses, taxis and bicycles.” Livingstone extended the zone westward in 2007, but the “WEZ” was ended by Boris Johnson on Christmas Eve 2010. Two years ago, he increased the charge for the remaining central zone by 15% two years ago.Expanding congestion charging has so far not been advocated by either of the two front runners in the mayoral race, Labour’s Sadiq Khan and the Conservatives’ Zac Goldsmith, despite its capacity to reduce costs on business, improve air quality and raise revenue for Transport for London. Ben Rogers, director of the influential Centre for London think tank, has argued that both of them should champion “London wide road user-charging,” correctly pointing out that Johnson’s own official transport strategy accepts the case for more road-pricing in principle. However, doing so would risk provoking strong and possibly damaging opposition from some London voters and businesses. Given this, a bolder approach to the issue looks set to be taken only by Pidgeon and the Green Party’s Sian Berry, both of whom are unlikely to become mayor but will hope a strong anti-congestion stance will boost their parallel campaigns for London Assembly “party list” seats.