We’ve had the tear-jerking tales of Monty the penguin, a bear and a hare and a man on the moon, but this year John Lewis is pinning its hopes for a bumper Christmas on Buster the boxer, a comedy bouncing dog.Buster is the star turn in the department store’s festive ad campaign, which has become a much anticipated annual media moment in recent years.The dog’s buddies in the advert, which cost £1m to make in a west London studio, include a two foxes, a badger and a hedgehog. The department store will spend a total of £6m on the campaign.John Lewis Christmas ads: watch all the previous ones here The action is set to a cover version of Randy Crawford’s One Day I’ll Fly Away, sung by Blythe Pepino of British band Vaults, and the two-minute film tells the story of a girl called Bridget who loves to bounce.Bridget’s dad struggles to set up a trampoline in the garden ready to surprise her on Christmas morning. But only Buster witnesses the garden wildlife trying it out the night before. When the girl, played by a six-year-old London actor called Summer, runs into the garden to try out her present, Buster beats her to it, showing off his best moves on the trampoline.The ad, with the strapline “Gifts that everyone will love”, is a return to gentle comedy after last year’s sentimental story of a lonely old man stuck on the moon.Craig Inglis, customer director at John Lewis, said: “2016 has certainly been quite a year, so we hope our advert will make people smile. It really embraces a sense of fun and magic, reminding everyone what it feels to give the perfect gift at Christmas.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Student’s fake John Lewis Christmas advert is runaway hitThe retailer’s ads have inspired dozens of parodies, including a version of last year’s Man on the Moon ad by the discount grocer Aldi. This year a fake John Lewis ad made by an A-level student has been viewed by hundreds of thousands of people on YouTube. In recent years John Lewis has vied with Sainsbury’s for the most viewed advert, with both garnering more than 23m views on YouTube last year.Once again the adverts have a charitable link. The Wildlife Trusts will get 10% of sales of cuddly toy versions of the animals as John Lewis aims to offset some of the increasing hype around the advert, which is seen as the start of the festive season by many British shoppers.Inglis said: “Each year we work with a charity which fits our ad, and we hope this year’s campaign will encourage more children to discover a love of British wildlife and encourage support of the Wildlife Trusts.” The ad was shot on a set built at London’s Black Island Studios and was directed by Dougal Wilson, who was responsible for three previous John Lewis Christmas adverts including 2011’s The Long Wait, 2012’s The Journey, and 2014’s Monty’s Christmas. Buster is played by a dog called Biff, although some of his best moves have been created on computer. The CGI has been produced by the same team that created Monty the Penguin for the 2014 ad campaign. The wild animals are entirely animated.As in previous years, the ad has been previewed with a series of teasers shared on Twitter and Facebook.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   John Lewis’s 2014 Christmas commercial tells the story of the friendship between Sam and Monty the penguin. Photograph: John Lewis/PAFor the first time, John Lewis will launch its ad via Sky, going live at 8am on Thursday on the satellite operator’s homepage as well as on the retailer’s social media channels and website.It will launch on terrestrial TV at 9.15pm on Thursday evening, during the ITV drama Paranoid, and will run again during The X Factor on Saturday. Sky will also host a “making of” film and content about British wildlife presented by Patrick Aryee.Christmas TV ads - the search for a cracker, the fear of a turkey The retailer will employ a host of innovative social media tools to help encourage sharing and interaction as the battle for hearts and minds in the run-up to the biggest shopping period of the year becomes increasingly digital.These include a tie-up with Snapchat, which will allow UK users of the messaging app to use a Buster lens on Thursday, so they can snap portraits with comedy dog ears and nose. After that, the filter will pop up when Snapchat is used in a John Lewis store. Until Sunday 13 November, customers will be able to use special Twitter stickers that pop up when they use the hashtag #bouncebounce to personalise their photos with Buster and the other animals. Visitors to John Lewis’s Oxford Street store will be able to try a virtual reality version of the trampoline, where they can bounce alongside the animals using Oculus Rift goggles.John Lewis says its Christmas ad campaigns over the past four years, which have included two star-crossed snowmen, have fuelled an average 16% lift in festive sales. The number of festive shoppers in John Lewis stores has climbed more than 50% from 926,000 to 1.4 million in 2013-15.