Michael Kiwanuka’s phone buzzes and he glances at it with trepidation. He has been on the receiving end of some disturbing messages recently, and it is starting to unsettle him.“I keep getting texts saying: ‘Have you had your injections yet?’” he says. “I’ve no idea what they’ve got planned for me.” Turns out Kiwanuka’s stag do is coming up: he can’t tell if his mates are on the wind-up or if he’ll be tied to a lamppost in Burkina Faso by the time you read this.For anyone who has heard his second album, the Mercury-nominated Love and Hate, the surprise might be more that Kiwanuka is getting married at all. It doesn’t exactly paint a picture of marital bliss, after all. Rather, the intimate folk-soul songs offer up self-critical examinations of his romantic failings, from scorning himself for not being able to open up (I’ll Never Love) to admitting he didn’t treat an ex as well as he should have (The Final Frame). What on earth must his wife-to-be make of them?“At first, I couldn’t play songs like I’ll Never Love,” admits the 29-year-old. “I would take them off the set list at gigs she was at, because they’re dark, sad songs. But they’ve not got anything to do with our relationship – you can go to other parts of yourself, past times, old relationships.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Black Man in a White WorldVulnerability is key to what Kiwanuka has attempted on Love and Hate. He says listening to modern-day personal statements such as Frank Ocean’s Channel Orange and Kendrick Lamar’s To Pimp a Butterfly was the key inspiration, although putting the newfound openness into practice was daunting: “In the past, I worried if people would like the melody. Now it was if they were going to ask what the song was about.”He needn’t have fretted. The reaction to his more personal songs wasn’t just wildly positive; it may have saved his career. Because before writing Love and Hate, Kiwanuka found himself trapped in a period of intense self-doubt and low self-worth.“I wrote a lot of songs and recorded a lot of music, but it never seemed to be right,” he says. He admits now that the job of the A&R rep at his label was to push him to be better, to reject anything that was less than perfect – yet Kiwanuka found the process dispiriting. “I started to think that it was luck the first time around,” he says of his debut album Home Again, which made the UK top four. “Every time I made music, it just reminded me that I hadn’t written a good song in a while.”Michael Kiwanuka: Love & Hate review – bittersweet soul-baring Kiwanuka thought he should perhaps have some time out, or even quit music as a profession altogether. He spent a lot of time in bed, not doing music or anything of note. “I was just hanging around,” he admits. “Watching The Wire in my pyjamas then going to the pub. I was pretty low and downbeat, if I’m honest.”Was it depression?“I think it might have been, yeah.”This was not, on paper, how people might have expected Kiwanuka to be feeling. In 2012, he had topped the influential BBC Sound of … poll, swiftly sold 700,000 copies of Home Again, and was nominated for a Mercury music prize. A year later, he received a further seal of artistic approval when Kanye West invited him to join the sessions for Yeezus in Hawaii. Most artists would been delighted by that opportunity. Yet the experience only cemented Kiwanuka’s feelings of self-doubt.“I knew I should be making the most of it,” he says, “But when you feel that low and down you don’t see the massive opportunities at your feet. I felt like an outsider who shouldn’t have been there. Every now and then someone would ask me a question and I would be like, ‘Why are you asking me?’”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Love and HateThat wasn’t to say he didn’t find the sessions eye-opening – he watched West juggle various creative outlets, from designing clothes to making beats, all while being served soup as he sat on what Kiwanuka describes as “a throne”. He was enthralled by West’s creative energy – not only did he live entirely by his own clock, playing basketball games at 4am and hosting deafening playbacks through the night, but he seemed to never sleep save for the odd hour snatched in the kitchen. Yet despite encouragement from the producers in the room, Kiwanuka says he always felt undeserving of his place there.“They would go crazy over my voice,” he says – he has been compared to Bill Withers and Terry Callier – “but it’s only now that I value it. At the time I was like, ‘This is average at best.’ I was trying to sound like Justin Vernon on Lost in the World, rather than doing my own thing. All Kanye really wanted me to do was go in a room and be myself, which is the funnest thing in the world to do and a ticket to lifting my career, but I wasn’t ready.”Instead, Kiwanuka ended up walking out. At first just for the day – he switched off his phone and went awol – and then, during later sessions in Paris, for good. “I went home,” he says, “left a guitar and a scarf there, and just disappeared.”But if Yeezus was not to be graced by Kiwanuka’s contributions, the sessions did have a positive effect. Home Again had been a soulful affair, but it was retro almost to the point of parody with its faded sleeve and dusty recording sound – Kiwanuka realised he needed to open his mind musically. When a hook-up with producer Brian “Danger Mouse” Burton bore fruit, he enlisted him to work further on songs that would eventually make up Love and Hate. Burton pushed Kiwanuka in much the same way as his A&R had done, but he listened more when the advice came from a fellow musician. “I started to realise that the only reason people would criticise me is because they wanted the music to be better,” he admits.The wild nature of the Yeezus sessions rubbed off on him too, even if the examples he gives of no-holds-barred living – “One day I went to see Straight Outta Compton in the cinema at, like, 12.30am” – suggests he’s not Keith Richards just yet.Most important for Kiwanuka was the realisation that being an outsider in life was not something he needed to overcome, but something he should celebrate. Feeling like he didn’t belong during the Yeezus sessions was not a novel experience for Kiwanuka. All his life he says he’s felt like he existed on the fringes, from studying jazz at the Royal Academy of Music without any formal musical training to growing up as the son of Ugandan immigrants in middle-class north London. Even as a child, he recalls feeling shut out because he was unable to speak his family’s first language at the dinner table. His mum decided not to teach him her native tongue for fear he would be held back in English classes at school: “People would come around, like my mum’s sisters and cousins, and they’d be speaking Ugandan, and I’d be like, ‘I don’t get it!’ I used to sit there playing computer with my brother while they had adult conversations they wanted to protect us from. That used to piss me off.”The result was a slight identity crisis, where Kiwanuka says he felt “kind of British, not really Ugandan ... I had some hang-ups in my late teens, for sure.”Such soul-searching eventually brought him to write Black Man in a White World, the lead single on Love and Hate. Although it’s ostensibly a song about race, in a year in which identity is the hot topic, he says it’s more about being an outsider.“The way I felt in Hawaii, you can get so caught up about trying to fit in,” he says. “I was so busy trying to fit in that I didn’t stop to think, ‘Oh, this is cool, I can just do my own thing.’ I was obsessed with being normal, whatever that is, whereas what Black Man in a White World is saying is ‘enjoy standing out’. It might be scary and you will have to answer for yourself a bit more, but I definitely credit it with helping me become the musician I am. And all my rock’n’roll heroes were weird, weirder than me anyway.”It’s understandable why Kiwanuka might have struggled with being himself: one of the first questions he was asked by his label was what he wanted to be called. Record buyers, he was told, might struggle with his name. One person who particularly annoyed Kiwanuka suggested he sounded like a world-music artist. “The fact the question was put out there at all … I thought ‘How dare you!’ But to be fair, as soon as I said I wanted to be Kiwanuka they were cool.”He doesn’t think his music – not even Black Man in a White World – is overtly political, but he accepts that all discussion on identity has a political element. “All those hang ups I’ve had, they all tie in with issues such as #OscarsSoWhite,” he says. “How I felt growing up might have been different if I’d seen more diversity at, say, an awards show.”Meeting Kiwanuka now, you’d never know he had hang-ups at all, let alone been through so much crippling self-doubt. He seems relaxed, upbeat, the very definition of positivity. We finish talking about the Mercury prize, which will be awarded on 15 September. His first nomination came too soon, and he felt like an imposter on the music scene.“But now I feel like my own guy,” he says. “I’m just excited about meeting other musicians and other artists I haven’t met, to see which ones might be up for working together on new music. And I’d flippin’ love to win it!”He sounds set free, and it’s hard not to compare his love life with his career: in both cases he’s forced himself to open up, and found happiness.“It’s the same thing,” he agrees. “Before I felt I couldn’t write songs, I hated it. Picking up a guitar reminded me of things not working out, whereas now? I can’t wait to write anything!”Love and Hate is out now on Polydor. Michael Kiwanuka tours the UK from 6 to 22 October. Details: michaelkiwanuka.com