have never had much confidence in the way I look. I know that I don’t look like I live under a bridge or anything, but I’ve always wanted to look very different from the way I actually do. So for most of my life I pretended that I didn’t care about my appearance. A combination of lack of innate style, money, confidence and a body-shape equivalent of a Weeble (we wobble but we don’t fall down!) meant that it was easier not to bother at all.I found my first fashion idol in 1984. I was 10, and the family would spend our afternoons watching old classic movies like Ninotchka and The Thin Man. While I loved all of the old stars, one woman entranced me: Marlene Dietrich. We would watch Destry Rides Again and The Blue Angel and my gran would say to me, with absolute sincerity: “When you grow up, you can be just like Marlene Dietrich.”I’d look at her with wide eyes and say: “Can I? Can I really?” That’s quite a role model to have in your head. It was also a quite sexually confusing woman to emulate. Half the time Dietrich was dressed in a top hat and tails, which I’m fairly sure contributed to my desire to dress like Fred Astaire rather than Ginger Rogers. If people criticise your look you can explain it away by saying: ‘Actually I wasn’t trying in the first place’ The main obstacle to this dream becoming a reality was, quite simply, me. I couldn’t glide across a room. I couldn’t even wear anything white because by the time I got to the front door I’d be covered in dirt. When I was younger my nickname was Pig-Pen, which was slightly nicer than the nickname my brother gave me, which was Smelly Tights Calman.My dream to be La Dietrich crashed when I realised what a duff hand life had dealt me. First, and most importantly, I have no sense of style. I wear clothes because to do otherwise would be upsetting and, let’s face it, chilly. My lack of fashion sense is, I believe, my parents’ fault. I was a girl, and there are certain societal pressures to dress girls in a certain way. As a result I often found myself forcibly restrained by the many sequins and ribbons on a pretty party dress – constricted in a bejewelled straitjacket.My mum did try her best, bless her. She bought me a special outfit for the school disco once. She went into a shop called Tammy Girl, which many of you will remember with fondness. It’s like Primark but with more dignity. In the 80s there was a fashion for everything matching. She chose for me a polka-dot outfit: a batwing cardigan and culottes. I looked like a jockey dressed as MC Hammer. She may as well have put a sign on me that said: “Don’t touch this.” And no one did.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Susan Calman ‘forcibly restrained in a pretty party dress’ in her youth.I’m short and I’m stocky, or as my gran described me, “healthy”. I have odd dimensions. Short legs and an unfeasibly high waist. I remember being reassured when I read Judy Garland’s biography. She, like me, was 4ft 11in. And, like me, her waist started at her shoulders.Being short causes more problems than you might think. Everything is out of proportion. For some reason shops seem to think short equals thin. I’m required, on average, to cut 7in off the bottom of a pair of trousers when I buy them. When I was at university I hadn’t yet discovered the joy of Wundaweb, so I simply bought old pairs of Levi’s and cut them with a pair of scissors. The frayed edges gave me the look of a scarecrow that had let itself go a bit. Despite really, really wanting to look like a film star, I just couldn’t.So I decided to make it not about looking good but to make it a political statement. In my experience you can justify almost everything with politics except, oddly enough, politics. And so rather than address the fact that I was an awkward looking, oddly shaped human being with no real sense of style, I used dogma as an excuse to hide in my clothes and make myself as unattractive and unfeminine as I could.When I was at university I encountered, for the first time, gender politics. There was a political stance at that time, born largely out of the post-punk/1970s version of feminism, which I went along with, which was that to feminise yourself was to buy into the misogynistic patriarchy that oppresses women and enslaves them in a traditional culture of childrearing followed by a slow death by ironing. It was a laugh a minute back then. There’s something reassuring about knowing that if people criticise you, you can explain your conduct away by saying: “Actually I wasn’t trying in the first place.” We burst into the bar: ‘Hello, we’re the leshbians in carriage B!’ I don’t know why I spoke like Sean Connery So I pierced my nose, I wore an old army coat, I shaved the back of my head. I decided that if I wasn’t going to be noticed for being attractive, if I wasn’t going to turn heads when I entered the room because of how lovely I looked, I would be the exact opposite. And I stomped around campus with my DM boots, embracing the idea that I didn’t want to be attractive. That those who judged me for how I looked weren’t worth talking to.But it wasn’t the clothes that were the problem. It was me. I didn’t like me. And I particularly didn’t like how much there was of me.After a few years on the stand-up circuit I found myself making my first foray into the world of television, and it was at that point that I realised just how important the looks of a lady comic are. Not just to the audience, but also to the people making the shows. Gentlemen have faces full of character that don’t require more than the merest suggestion of powder to take the sheen off their cheeks. Women have faces that need covering in a pile of plaster before they can be seen by millions in their living rooms. Television is obsessed with a particular idea of women.When the make-up department asked me how I wanted to look, I said, “Just make me look natural.” Sadly, natural for me looks like a jaundiced panda. So they painted me, they smoothed out my spots, and they made me look like someone else. The more I transformed into their idea of a woman, the less like me I felt. Still, no matter how unhappy I was, I clung on to my shtick that I didn’t care. I should be judged on who I was, not how I looked.But then something rather unexpected happened. I visited Berlin with my better half for a city break. She is fluent in German and had a lovely time. I became frustrated with being unable to ask for anything apart from “sausages and beer, please”. To cheer me up she suggested a museum. Woohoo! Why not suggest some time at an art gallery to get the party really started?But I acceded and as we wandered round, closing in on the gift shop, I noticed a room we hadn’t visited yet. It was packed with display cases filled with clothes and top hats. I realised what I was looking at. It was a shrine to Marlene Dietrich.I stood, transfixed. What struck me most was her height. I’d always imagined that Dietrich was tall and willowy. But looking at her clothes it was clear that, while she was still taller than me, she wasn’t a 6ft Amazon. She was about 5ft 5in – not stick thin by any manner of means, but the way she held herself made her look 6ft tall. She was a real, shortish woman. Just like me.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I looked like a gentleman from the 1920s, and it felt amazing’: Susan Calman. Photograph: Steve UllathorneI made a decision to start trying. Why? Because I’d had enough. Because I’d seen Marlene’s clothes. And because of an incident with a friend of mine about a week before we went on holiday. I’d decided to buy a pair of bright pink capri pants which I thought looked pretty ace. I wore them to lunch, and when I met my friend she just laughed at me. I went bright pink, to match the trousers, and went home and changed. I realised Marlene wouldn’t have gone home and changed. She would’ve stuck a bow on her behind and called herself a birthday present. I was gradually inching out of the fashion closet as a tiny, Scottish Dietrich.A top hat and tails wouldn’t work for everyday wear, but I decided that instead of fighting against my natural inclination not to dress like a girl I should embrace it. I bought tweed waistcoats, herringbone-pattern trousers, shirts and jackets with patches on the elbow. I looked like a gentleman from the 1920s and it felt amazing. Not long after our visit to Berlin I got a chance to try out my new style. (I’ve always wanted to go on the Orient Express, mainly because I once saw Murder on the Orient Express. Which is a stupid reason to go on a holiday – “Oh look, someone got stabbed on that train. Let’s go for a wee break!”)I was excited about the trip, but I realised it was completely outside my comfort zone. Before we left for Venice, through the letterbox dropped a novel-sized dress code and etiquette guide. It said that you weren’t allowed to wear jeans, trainers or T-shirts on the train. It said that there is no such thing as too glamorous on board the Orient Express. We panicked for a bit and then we thought: “To hell with it. In for a penny and in for a pound.” So we bought tuxedos. My wife had a white one and I got a black one, and a monocle and pipe. And we burst into the bar carriage, saying: “Hello, we’re the leshbians in carriage B!” I don’t know why I spoke like Sean Connery. It just seemed appropriate.Now that’s what I’m talking about. Once I embraced the idea that style doesn’t have to be what we’re told it is in magazines or on television, it made sense. Basically, what’s on the outside now matches what’s on the inside. I’m not conforming to social stereotypes, I’m finally dressing the way I want to. Yes, it’s taken me 20 years longer than most people to find out what I want to look like, but I know now. I finally feel comfortable with myself. I don’t mind when people laugh at me in my tweed suits. And I don’t care that a woman of my stature should probably wear heels. I’m sticking with my brogues.I still think my younger self was right – you shouldn’t be judged on your appearance. But the reality is that we are. So you have two options. You can shrink into the shrubbery of life, camouflaging yourself in the hope of avoiding the worst of the stares. Or you can accept that the harshest critic you’ll ever encounter is yourself, and go for it.You may not agree with what I’ve said, but that’s fine. I’m a miniature Marlene Dietrich from Glasgow and, darling, I look fabulous.Styling Hope Lawrie; Hair and Make-up Juliana Sergot; top hat James Lock and Co (lockhatters.co.uk) Cheer Up, Love: Adventures in Depression with the Crab of Hate  by Susan Calman is out on 5 May, priced £14.99. To buy a copy for £11.99 go to bookshop.theguardian.com