This has been a grisly week, and the future looks rather a mess, so as light relief I’d like to report on something uplifting and beautiful I saw in London last week – an exhibition by artists working with the charity Intoart of ceramics, prints and paintings. It included a stunning 48-piece tiled frieze by Mawuena Kattah, full of energy, colour, wit, and all about who and what she loves. I stood gazing at it and listening to how she had done it – a very complex procedure using photos, stencils, transfers, tracings, ceramic tiles, firings, paintings and slips, and all the more adventurous because she’d never done ceramics before, and has a learning disability, like all of Intoart’s artists.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mawuena Kattah’s 48-piece tiled frieze Photograph: Josef Konczak/Mawuena Kattah/IntoartHelped by the Victoria and Albert Museum’s ceramics studio, she has been happy, brought pleasure to her family and to many who have seen her work, and become an established artist. Imagine her, or any pupil, managing to do this through our state school system. Fat chance. They will be lucky if they can borrow a recorder, never mind ceramics equipment.We should all know by now that art and music make you feel good, and able to articulate visually or musically in a way that you may not be able to do verbally, and enhance your life and everyone else’s. I’ve taught music therapy, I’ve seen music light people up when nothing else can, and it’s the same with any art. I’ve banged on about this until I’m blue in the face, and our children’s laureates are now battling to “ensure the future of creativity in British schools”, but we’re doing worse than ever.Last week, a survey by Arts Professional magazine suggested a big drop in the takeup of arts subects for GCSE, just as there seems to be a surge in loathing, squabbling, fear and treachery, and we need the arts more than ever. Thank you, Nicky Morgan, for warning us that choosing arts over science, technology and maths could “hold [pupils] back for the rest of their lives”.No, it won’t. It will give them the strength to wade through the ever-increasing ordure that the world will be throwing at them.