Glastonbury, MondayTHE truth-seeking season has come again to King Arthur’s Vale of Avalon. Fortunately, for the astral trippers, day trippers, Buddhists, Christians, mystics – but not Maoists – the source of myth and mystery, like the Chalice Well in Glastonbury where it all began – is inexhaustible.This time some of the beautiful people are turning their earnest attentions away from the town which boasts as much about its clean lavatories and ample car parks as about us Arthurian connections, and are congregating nine miles away on a farm. This is over-looked by Glastonbury Tor and is the site of a celebration of the summer solstice at a gathering called Glastonbury Fair.Word of mouth passed along underground and the overground has brought everyone together. The pop music fans apart, there is a hard core of truth-seekers.They are looking, some of them, for what Geoffrey Ashe has called “ A Sense of Something Else,” in describing the illusive enchantment which surrounds the legend of Glastonbury. Many people here are gentle misfits, living life in its margins and looking for a mainstream credo to replace distrusted inherited values. They have assembled in a place where the broad and ancient beliefs in astrological religions has been changed and narrowed gradually into the creeds of Ebeneza chapels in the villages round about.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Two priests walking among the Glastonbury crowds, 1971. Photograph: Tony Russell/RedfernsThose who are comparatively specific are very cool about it. Even at mass outside the Jesus Tent when the priests with magnificent ginger sideburns invite the participants to pray for what they feel, there is silence instead of the Bible-belting response of a revival meeting. But don’t be deceived, charisma is all around.For some the search is an academic one through books and the occult. Paul who comes from Southampton, says that some astral travellers prefer to take a short cut by dropping acid. But he has read the myths. Others are less well researched. A man called Tim who “does things with his hands” is here because he reckons that advances made in communications through technology have neglected the power of mystic communications. He wants to revive this.But most articulate of all is the Pendragon Society, devoted to stimulate interest in Arthur, “the once and future King,” as Mrs Jesse Foster the secretary, obligingly tells you. Mrs Foster, though a most un-dragonlike lady herself, admits that her Scottish hackles rise when she is asked how the Trustees of the Chalice Well (where the Holy Grail is said to be hidden) view the society.Glastonbury isn’t completely at ease with the seekers, whether they are hip or straight. This seems to be against the tradition of the place which has spectacularly managed to adapt old beliefs into new religion. The two founding myths prove this. History says that the Holy Grail, used at the Last Supper, was brought here by Joseph of Arimathea. But before its Christianisation the Grail was probably the life-giving vessel central to other cults.The other is the dragon cult. According to John Michell, whose book “The View Over Atlantis” is a sort of Gideon’s Bible at the fair, the Chinese knew the dragon as a bright beneficent light trailing across the sky. The lines it moved on were traced along the ground. One is said to pass over Glastonbury Tor, a main centre of the cult in Britain.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A general view of the Pyramid Stage at the Glastonbury Festival, 2015 Photograph: Samir Hussein/Redferns via Getty ImagesThe dragon legend, argues John Michell, was adapted by the Christian church. He says that numerous churches along the line which runs from St Michael’s Mount, Cornwall, to the Norfolk-Suffolk border are dedicated to St Michael and St George. These are the saints nominated by the church as best equipped to deal with this particular pagan superstition.All this and with the Zodiac beaming benignly right now, astral travellers should be able to walk on the wide side with impunity. Arthur art thou sleeping here below? 