'Am I still a feminist if I watch porn?' Meet Phoebe Waller-Bridge, the British Lena Dunham In the final minutes of Phoebe Waller-Bridge’s BBC3 series Fleabag, the young female protagonist delivers a tearful monologue about her self-loathing and isolation. It provides a coda to the show’s disturbing portrait of a lonely, tormented woman, something that – as the eponymous anti-hero is at pains to point out between sobs – “isn’t fucking funny”.And it isn’t. But with an attitude like that, how did Fleabag end up becoming one of the most successful British sitcoms of 2016? Unlike, say, the goings-on at a hotel run by a furious man who loathes the public, or the japes that ensue when a group of freakish priests are banished to a lonely island, this isn’t a premise teeming with side-splitting potential. Fleabag took the genre’s tropes – the half-hour format, the eccentric characters, the silliness and the boundary-pushing humour – and used them to make serious subjects accessible and engaging. It’s a trend that’s produced a raft of moving, disturbing and insightful comedies that have irrevocably changed the TV landscape.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Transparent. Photograph: Merie Wallace/PRTransparent review – the best thing on TV at the moment The catch? Most of the time, they won’t have you doubled up with laughter. By unshackling themselves from the promise of gag after gag, they are free to be as interesting and progressive as they like. Amazon’s Transparent is primarily concerned with being a groundbreaking, nuanced and naturalistic exploration of one family’s relationships with gender, sexuality and Judaism; that didn’t stop it being nominated in eight comedy categories at this year’s Emmys. How did we get to the point where comedy could get away with ditching its most essential quality?The seeds of the unfunny comedy trend – dubbed, in the US, the sadcom – can probably be traced back to the original Office’s 2003 Christmas specials. But the phenomenon really gained traction in 2010, when FX began airing Louis CK’s autobiographical comedy Louie, a show that channelled the realism of Seinfeld but left out the synthetic sitcom set-up – and most of the jokes. While an early review complained that “laughs come only intermittently”, it soon became clear the show was more interested in ruthlessly sifting through the comedian’s psyche in a series of scenarios both nightmarish and real. That this unfunniness was deliberate seemed clear from CK’s reputation as one of the most hilarious stand-ups on the circuit; sitcom, it seemed, could be a home for something more sombre.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Aziz Ansari and Noel Wells in Master Of None. Photograph: KC Bailey/APLouie was followed in 2012 by Girls: notable for drawing its occasional laughs from uncomfortable topics such as mental health and objectification. Importantly, it demonstrated that comedy’s inbuilt irreverence meant it could discuss identity politics – one of the most important ideas of the decade – without preaching. Shows such as Transparent and Aziz Ansari’s Master Of None, which dealt with racial stereotyping and the lived experience of immigrants and their children, followed suit.Combine this with the Netflixication of TV – which favours shows with a strong narrative arc and scope for emotional investment – and society has created the perfect environment for this new strain of comedy. New Netflix series Easy, Tig Notaro’s One Mississippi and Donald Glover’s forthcoming Atlanta – which meditates on the US police system as well as the nature of fame – add to a trend that is only gathering steam.Many of these shows are the semi-autobiographical vehicles of US standup comedians, indicating how the status of comic has become elevated: they are now more akin to metaphysical gurus than clowns. That’s partly because humour has a very high value in modern culture: not only is the news increasingly consumed through a prism of humour – thanks in part to social media and memes – but we live in an age of complicated theoretical ideas, such as gender, sexuality and latent institutional racism and sexism, and we need comedy to make them easily digestible.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anna Chancellor and Olivia Colman in Flowers. Photograph: Des Willie/Channel 4Flowers: Olivia Colman and Julian Barratt come together to fall apart It’s important to note that unfunny comedy is not the same as comedy-drama – an often schmaltzy and generally regressive genre that sprinkles laughs on top of a dramatic conceit. The difference can be summed up best in Channel 4’s Flowers, a comedy about a severely depressed patriarch and his family’s deep-seated unhappiness. By commandeering the irreverence and dark absurdity of sitcoms like Nighty Night and The League Of Gentlemen, Flowers was able to generate humour from its subject – mental health – rather than diffusing the tension with trite jokes about something incidental. Fusing laughter and pain felt healing rather than controversial, and a real step forward for television as a medium.Ultimately, these shows are so absorbing because life really is an unfunny comedy. Like the siblings from Transparent cackling at the fallout from their father’s gender transition, traumatic events usually generate the best laugh-out-loud moments. This life-long dance between comedy and tragedy is summed up perfectly by that final scene of Fleabag, which ends with the protagonist’s companion, played by Hugh Dennis, cracking a pre-discussed joke. Still tear-stained, Fleabag can’t help but burst out laughing. “Told you it was funny,” he says.Atlanta is on Fox in November