“I should have been a literary person,” says Saul Friedländer, the Pulitzer-winning historian of the Holocaust. “My love is literature.”Review: The Years of Extermination by Saul Friedlander At 84, he is turning again to his love. He recently published a book on Kafka, his next will be on Proust. First, though, comes promotion of his second memoir. Its title, Where Memory Leads, suggests his debt to the author of À la Recherche du Temps Perdu.Friedländer and I are sitting in the 30th-floor cafe of a midtown Manhattan hotel, on a bright morning in November. Slight and precise, with a Mitteleuropean accent and cheerful, impeccable manners, he sips orange juice and peppers his answers with laughter. Our conversation is a delight, despite the horrors upon which it must touch.Friedländer’s first memoir, When Memory Comes, is now reissued to accompany its sequel. It is a small classic of Holocaust literature. With a light brush, bringing events in and out of focus, the author depicts his early years in Prague, where he was born in 1932 to Jewish parents who considered themselves culturally German; the family’s move to Paris and flight to Vichy; his seclusion and conversion in a Catholic seminary; his parents’ attempted escape to Switzerland and their disappearance, ultimately to die in Auschwitz. It is a shattering story, written in 1977 in Israel, where Friedländer went first to fight and later to teach, salted with observations on the Jewish state and relations with the Palestinians, a never-ending debate in which he participates forcefully from the left. Where Memory Leads follows suit, telling a painful post-war story both personal and national, woven into discussions of teaching posts outside Israel, in Geneva and Los Angeles, where he is emeritus professor of history at UCLA. “Where Memory Leads is a history in some sense,” Friedländer says, of a book that contains more on his parents – it was not until 1994 that he visited St Gingolph, where they were turned back, a trip made as he studied Switzerland and the Holocaust – and about the two volumes of Nazi Germany and the Jews, The Years of Persecution and The Years of Extermination. Those books took a lifetime to germinate and 16 years to write, culminating in his Pulitzer win. “I am finished with historical research on this subject, which has lasted my whole life. It was a conscious decision. I thought I had said what I had to say, mainly in these two works, which summed up what I was able to do, in a massive way. I wanted really to spend the time that remained on literary topics because that’s what I really loved.”The next book will take as its genesis Monsieur Proust, a memoir by the writer’s housekeeper, Céleste Albaret, and will focus on “different kinds of memory … the selections he made and the consistencies and inconsistencies, but also the different tones and so forth, childhood and the later years, social context and so on”. Why are we obsessed with the Nazis? As Friedländer says, the book is “not even work in progress, it’s work at its very beginnings, in my mind”. As long as he’s away from his desk in Tarzana, in the San Fernando Valley outside Los Angeles, it will remain there. His debt to literature, however, is evident in every page that he writes. In a review for the New York Times, for example, the Cambridge historian Sir Richard Evans praised The Years of Extermination as “an account of unparalleled vividness and power that reads like a novel”. So it does, sweeping the continent, a factual War and Peace. This is in some part achieved, as Evans wrote, because Friedländer make extensive use of letters and journals from victims instead of “the sometimes unreliable testimony of memoirs”.Suggesting that some of his techniques for the telling of so many stories are in fact more “filmic” than literary, in terms of the judicious making and placing of cuts, Friedländer laughs nonetheless at the irony.  The traumatic past remains very much engraved, but nonetheless you have left the period behindSaul Friedländer “And yet I have written two volumes of memoirs, yes, yes. It is a self-criticism, from the historian’s viewpoint. There is a danger in memoir-writing, many years after the event. Memoirs written immediately after the war, like that of Primo Levi, of Auschwitz and others which were very close to the events, may be compared almost to on-the-spot diaries. But otherwise, and I don’t know how far I could say it about my own memoir, with the passage of time one tends to reorganise the past. “The traumatic past remains very much engraved, but nonetheless you have left the period behind, you have spoken to many people about it, you have spoken to yourself, mostly.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Saul Friedländer outside his home in Los Angeles, Photograph: Gilles Mingasson/Getty ImagesFriedländer’s traumatic past, a mirror of European 20th century history, wrought upon him change after change. He was born Pavel Friedländer in Prague, known as Pavlicek. Fled to Paris, he became Paul. Hidden in the seminary in Montneuf, he became the Catholic Paul-Henri Ferland. In Israel, in the army and working under Shimon Peres, he became Shaul. An academic in Europe and America, he became Saul. He speaks Czech, German, Hebrew, French and English, writes in English and thinks in French.In his histories, he homes in on similar catastrophic experience, on diaries and letters written “in the face of events, of history, of in this case the Holocaust”, by young or marginalised victims or, in the case of members of the Jewish councils, those tied close to the centre of the horrific procession of events.“The intention is not to confirm facts but to give an atmosphere,” he says, “which also escapes you partly in a memoir written 20 or 30 years later. When you are facing whatever it is, you cannot cut that out.”•••The US is facing its own uncertainties. A few blocks up Fifth Avenue, at Trump Tower, the 45th president of the United States is preparing for power. The US has lurched to the right. A few weeks before our meeting, Friedländer told a reporter that if Donald Trump were elected, he might have to leave the country.“I know,” he says, laughing again, this time with a touch of disbelief. “It went around the world and I got even hate mail. Oh yeah. Telling me, ‘If it’s so, why don’t you leave immediately,’ and things like that. I mean, some were worse. But I think like most people it’s part our fault.”He discusses the shortcomings of the Clinton campaign, decrying liberals’ reliance on the “values of their own milieu, their own social strata”, the underestimation of Trump’s appeal to ordinary Americans, to women and even Hispanics. He recognises the resurgence of rightwing nationalism in the US, “in Poland, in Hungary, under Putin in Russia”, but rejects a proffered link to conditions and events in the 1920s and 30s. “This is not Weimar,” he says, unable to conceive of an assault by Trump on American democracy itself. “But it’s a catastrophe. And the more you see what [Trump’s] inner circle is preparing, the more you get to wondering what can happen.”That inner circle includes Stephen Bannon, once CEO of the hard-right news site Breitbart, soon to be White House senior counsellor, presumed influence behind campaign ads and Trump tweets that employed time-worn antisemitic tropes. Between Netanyahu and Trump you don’t know which is the worst evilSaul Friedländer Such ideas, Friedländer says, appear to be “very close to the Nazis, or to the neo-Nazis”. He adds: “Trump chose not to [immediately] repudiate the endorsement of the Ku Klux Klan or whatever on the one hand [and] on the other hand accepted Bannon as his chief adviser when the man is well known for his absolutely obnoxious political and ideological views. “It may show something of Trump’s idiocy, but I don’t think he is as stupid as some describe him. And if he’s not then it’s even worse, because then he knows something of what he does, which is certainly with evil intent. Taking a man like that as an adviser? It’s troubling.”He laughs, again in disbelief. “Are you going back to England?”No. My wife and children are American and I didn’t vote for Brexit. He laughs again. “You know, some people asked me, ‘So where will you go?’ So the first answer of course is Israel. But then between Netanyahu and Trump you don’t know which is the worst evil.”•••The temptation to retreat is strong. Friedländer is too old to man the barricades, but he writes in Where Memory Leads of a time when, living in Jerusalem, he realised he had unconsciously built himself a version of his father’s library in Prague. He came to love, he writes, merely “to sit, empty-minded, just vaguely contemplating, among my books”. He’s not empty-minded now – there’s the Proust book to shape, the rise of Trump to consider, journalists and audiences to talk to. But with children and grandchildren scattered round the world and Orna, his second wife, at his side, there is a sense of precious time regained.In his new memoir, he describes his “unusual working routine”. It involves writing longhand, having the resultant draft typed up, working over it in longhand again and repeating, thus “working simultaneously on content and form”. I suggest this process could itself be seen as a metaphor for his work on memory and history, arguments effaced and written over but with traces and shadows remaining. It’s not an original thought: Gore Vidal used the term for such a document, Palimpsest, as the title of his own memoir.Friedländer likes the idea, and says he must read Vidal. But, characteristically, he quickly pulls the conversation back from the empyrean to the quotidian – or, in words he’d use, to simple everyday life. His second memoir, he says, is less literary than his first, a more descriptive, conventional book, a recounting of history and the life of one who wrote it. A section about the Historikerstreit, a 1980s quarrel among German academics over the Holocaust and how to remember the Nazi era, is a fascinating excursion into the politics of academia. Perhaps his delving back into this world explains the tribute to David Lodge in the title of one of the memoir’s chapters: Changing Places. The other explanation, though, is that Friedländer just finds the British novelist’s campus novels “very, very amusing”.High Hitler: how Nazi drug abuse steered the course of history In truth, he says, he writes as he now does, more simply, more directly, simply because he is old. More literary efforts – one of his first passes at writing When Memory Comes involved an attempt to summon a Proustian rush over a strawberry shake at a milk bar on the Boulevard des Italiens, a drink remembered from his short time in Paris with his parents, in the late 1930s – are simply too much to ask.His laborious way of writing, however, does continue – mainly because he never learned to type.“I went in circles,” he says of his first battle with inspiration, writing his dissertation in Geneva in the early 1960s, “each time reworking the previous draft that somebody typed, then I got a clean version and then I wrote, and the same person retyped, and it went 10 times at least.”Again, with a laugh, he brings literature and history, the span of his art, back to everyday life. “For a student, the main problem was how to pay the typist.” 