Kishor and Indu Vithlani, Hollands, Rickmansworth, Hertfordshire Indu Everybody asks how can I spend so much time with my husband, working together in the shop all these years. I tell them we love each other. I don’t want to leave him on his own.We came from Uganda in 1973, married in 1974, had our first daughter in 1976 and bought the shop in November 1979. I had been working at the Gillette factory and my husband worked on the runway at Heathrow airport, and we decided it would be better for the family if we ran a shop; then I wouldn’t have to leave my daughter with a babysitter. The flat above the shop really suited us for that reason. I brought up my three kids in that two-bedroom flat (eventually we converted part of the bathroom into a third bedroom for my son). I was quite happy. I don’t need luxury. I only need things to be clean.The new generation of customers is very different from the others we’ve served over the years. Some of the older ladies used to help me with my kids when they were little. One lady, Mrs Lydia, was like a mother to me: she used to come in, head upstairs and look after the kids, then she would stay for dinner. I would take her to Diwali parties. Her granddaughter used to come and play with my daughter, and she’d take them to school and bring her home. There were some lovely people around here. There are a lot more flats now and the residents work in London, so they don’t come out as much. They buy everything online. We have to think about what comes next, but it will break my heart when the time comes to sell This shop is full of memories for me. I am 65 now and don’t work as much, only six days a week. But my husband hasn’t had a holiday in five years. We have to think about what comes next, but it will break my heart when the time comes to sell. What will we do?Kishor We’ve watched children in the community grow up. We see customers who we knew as schoolkids take their own children to the same primary school. Some I spot straight away, but others have changed a lot. They recognise me immediately and tell me I’m still as young as I was.It’s become harder now that all the supermarkets are 24 hours and you can buy things from petrol stations. We try to compete with special offers, but we also offer that personal touch you can’t get from supermarkets.Customers like to talk, and nowadays a lot of the elderly people who come in tell me their stories and I listen. I’m happy to – you can learn a lot from customers. You don’t get that at a supermarket.At some point I will have to sell the shop and enjoy my retirement. I might play golf or do some voluntary work. I’ll take a holiday and enjoy myself while I still can. My wife will be heartbroken, because she likes meeting all the customers and they all know our kids. We’ve got good memories. It’s been lovely working with my wife all these years. Your love grows, because you are together virtually 24 hours a day. Try it. It’s quite nice.Eric Barbour-McMullan, Tom Browne, Belfast      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eric Barbour-McMullan: ‘Young ones don’t bother with newspapers: they get it all from their phones.’ Photograph: Rob Durston for the GuardianTom Browne died in 1922. His daughter took over the shop – she married her first cousin, so it was Browne & Browne – then their daughter took over from them. When I came here in 1968, they said to me, “You can change the name over the door if you want, but we’re here 72 years: everybody knows the Brownes, nobody knows the McMullans.” The shop was farther down the Dublin Road then, number 11, but they widened Bruce Street in the 1980s and moved us up here.Dublin Road in 1968 was all shops and factories. There was still a family living at number 21, the Lowrys, two elderly brothers and a sister – nice, but odd. Then, about 1971, there was one particular bomb scare – we were evacuated many times in those days – and I noticed they hadn’t come out of their house. A big cop I knew from round the corner, built like an outhouse, put his foot to the door and brought them out.I did a bigger line in groceries then, for offices. There wasn’t a cafe the entire length of the road, and there was a whole community off it, too, all houses, houses, houses. Newspapers, too, have gone down. Twenty-eight years old and up, the ones that buy from me would be. Young ones don’t bother: they get all their information from their phones. Maybe there used to be the odd one who was interested in the law or something, but now I don’t even get the odd one.My wife’s sister was here with me for many years. She was a retired primary school vice-principal. I used to say to her, you worked for the first time in your life when you came to work for me. She was used to nine weeks’ holiday.I would talk to Tom the Devil one-to-one, but to stand for a photograph or get up in front of an audience? Put it like this: when I was a boy and went to the circus in the Hippodrome, I used to hide under the seat in case they’d pick me out to bring me up on stage. It might surprise people, given what I do, but I am actually a very shy person.Mo Shah, Preston Foods, Brighton      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mo Shah: ‘Two boys aged 13 and 15 came in wearing balaclavas. They had a knife.’ Photograph: Sophia Spring for the GuardianI never planned to take over the shop. I would read the FT when I was 15 or 16, so I did a degree in international banking and finance, and when I graduated I worked in the City for a couple of years as a trader at UBS. But I just thought, “This is not me.” When you’ve been born and raised in the shop environment, you get to miss it.My father, Syed, started the business in 1982, then they moved to this shop in 1985. We lived upstairs for many, many years. As a child, I was always milling around inside. Even so, taking over wasn’t something that I’d talked about. It’s long hours, seven days a week. Sick days are nonexistent. But the hours in London were even longer. And when you close the shop at eight, that’s it, it’s done. My dad was thinking about putting it on the market and I thought maybe it was a good time to switch.It was a bit of a surprise for him, but he was pleased. Now, even if I’m away for a couple of days, I begin missing the shop. It’s more than just a place you work: it’s a community. You meet and talk to a lot of people, and really get to know your clientele. I know them by name. I have their phone numbers in case they don’t come in. When I talk to my customers, it could be about their holiday, it could be about their children. Some of them confide in you. Some see you more than they see their sons or daughters. You really get to know your clientele. I know them by name. I have their phone numbers in case they don't come in Until March 2010, I’d never been robbed. My dad had never been robbed. But then, one Wednesday morning, two boys aged 13 and 15 came in wearing balaclavas. They had a knife and I think they were expecting me to be at the till, but I was halfway down the shop, putting milk in the fridge. So they went straight behind the counter and began putting cigarettes in their bag. When I got down to the front, that’s when I started grappling with them. I must have got stabbed then, but didn’t notice. They ran off, not knowing I was behind them. It just made me quite angry. I did not want to let them go. They hid in a beer garden. I climbed over the gate, and they were sitting there. It was quite a struggle, but I was able to hold both of them down until the police arrived.Fortunately I was only stabbed in the arm, but it could have been a lot worse. In the beer garden, one of them was lunging at me with the knife. When I look back at it now, I think, was it worth it? I had two children then, four now. It’s best just to let them go and let the police deal with it. So I wouldn’t go after thieves again.The boy with the knife, he had been using the shop for about a year. It upset me, because this was a customer I used to serve on a daily basis on his way to school. I found myself looking at other boys differently. But I don’t enjoy my work less. My eight-year-old son, Mikail, comes in on Sundays and does an hour and a half on the till. He’s really good at it. He looks forward to earning a bit of pocket money.Steve Denyer, Denyer News, Worthing, West Sussex      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Steve Denyer: ‘My daughters come over, make themselves a cup of tea, get themselves a magazine.’ Photograph: Sophia Spring for the GuardianIt was pretty good, living above a sweet shop as a child. We would come through the shop and see Dad after school, have a little bar of chocolate. I used to sit out the back and read Roy Of The Rovers and The Hotspur. I started learning to serve people when I was seven. We played shopkeepers: Dad was the customer and I would be the shopkeeper. He’d ask me to work out the change from a 10 shilling note. I still count money into people’s hands.Dad was manager then, but we bought the shop in 1986. Then, in 2002, Dad said, “I’ve been thinking about retiring – why don’t you take this on?” A lot of people still call it Reg’s, even though he hasn’t been here for 14 years. But I don’t mind. It’s quite endearing that they think of it like that. He imposed his personality on the place.I’m encouraging my daughters to forge a future for themselves, though. Not because I don’t want them in the shop – they come over, make themselves a cup of tea, get themselves a magazine – but because I think it’s going to become more difficult. There are enough legs in the place to see me into retirement, but I wouldn’t want to get them involved. They could have an interesting career for themselves.This is a retirement area. Slowly, the houses that were taking a newspaper are people that are dying. They get replaced with younger families who don’t take a paper, so a lot of the traditional sales have died out. In 2004, we were selling around 190 Telegraphs a day. We’re down to about 110. But I don’t want to pursue the convenience route. There’s a Spar next door. Sainsbury’s is coming. It’s better to highlight our difference. We’ve got a very good range of cards, and that pays dividends. The only thing we’ve done is take cakes on, and I think Dad would be spinning in his grave about that. I’m not going to start selling Weetabix and beans. I could put bigger shelves in, fill them chock-a-block, but then it wouldn’t be us.I recently turned 60. I don’t have any plans to retire; I don’t have an exit strategy. I think we’re all aware that, one day, it won’t be Denyer’s, it will become somebody else’s. But not yet.Viraj Patel, Best-One, Gorton, Manchester      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Viraj Patel: ‘They stopped filming Shameless here because the TV vehicles kept getting broken into.’ Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianIf you watched the first few series of Shameless, you will know my corner shop. It was the setting for the Shameless estate and my shop was called Karib’s. The shop is in a square, with the chemist and a Chinese takeaway. The area is being redeveloped and the shops will soon come down and be replaced by new ones.They stopped filming Shameless here because the production vehicles kept getting broken into. I know how they felt: my shop has been burgled maybe 50 times in 25 years. And in 2014, when all the surrounding houses came down, I was burgled six times in 11 days. They smashed through the roof and stole cigarettes and spirits. I have been held up with a gun, had my jaw broken and I was tied up by robbers as I opened early one morning.I am 48 and originally from Gujarat, India. I came here in 1990 and took over the shop soon after. I have a BSc in chemistry, but I couldn’t find work in that field. My son Neil is studying chemical engineering at university, and my daughter Radhika got nine A*s and one A in her GSCEs and wants to go into medicine.At first, it was a normal grocer’s shop, selling the usual things, nearly always for cash. Now, a lot of my business is done electronically – people pay their utility bills by PayPoint. I earn 13p for each transaction, but it is time-consuming, and I have to carry extra cash, which can be dangerous. PayPoint accounts for about 50% of my takings. I sell a lot of phone cards, and the lottery and scratch cards are a big part of my business. Many people here are quite poor and buy tickets in hope. One person won £30,000 once on the lottery, and others have won a few hundred on scratch cards. I give credit to certain customers – I call it putting goods “on hold”. The majority of people pay me back on time. I was burgled six times in 11 days. I have been held up with a gun, had my jaw broken, and tied up by robbers I get a little angry when I think the robbers and burglars are probably my customers, but the majority are good, honest people and I feel part of the community. If older people don’t come in as usual, I ask neighbours to look in on them.I work seven days a week, from early morning until around 8pm most days, but I close at lunchtime on Sundays. Because of the redevelopment, I have run at a loss for about six years. I hoped to do well in the new shop, but the developers are asking too much rent; they are not taking my losses into account. Now they want One Stop, owned by Tesco, to run the new shop. It doesn’t seem right, I have served the community for 25 years and Tesco are now going to get the rewards. I have asked my MP, Lucy Powell, to help. If she can’t, maybe I should play the lottery.Danny and Anne O’Shea, Danny’s, Glasgow      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Danny and Anne O’Shea: ‘Filled rolls started going like a fair, and soon I was earning more than before Safeway came.’ Photograph: Robert Ormerod for the GuardianI bought this shop in 1974 with my dad – I was 24. I worked with him for 30 years; he didn’t retire until he was 82. I met my wife, Anne, and she came to work here, but when we had kids, she just came in on a Sunday. She still does that. My daughter Louise came to work here after she had kids, too.When we first came here, it was just 300 sq ft. Then I extended the shop and now the sales area is 1,500 sq ft. It went like a train, then Safeway came and we took a terrible hit. We had a 30% drop in groceries, and it hit us hard in newspapers and cigarettes. That was 26 years ago. It’s a Morrisons now, and they opened a Lidl next door, but that doesn’t really bother us. People think, “I only want a loaf and a pint of milk” so they don’t want to go into a supermarket, where they employ psychologists and strategists to put the stuff there that will tempt them.I looked around and noticed that a few shops were doing really well in filled rolls and teas and coffees, and I thought, “I could do that.” The rolls started going like a fair, and within two years I was earning more than before Safeway came – our biggest seller is a roll and chopped pork. We’re on a main road, so we pick up passing trade and they are never skint; they’ll have their paper and cigarettes, going to work. We have customers who have been coming in here all their lives.I just keep diversifying – we’ve got the lottery now, bill pay, CollectPlus for people’s parcels and a free-to-use ATM, which is good for the footfall. Newspapers have taken a dive, but I will think of something else – I am always thinking, my mind is working all the time. That’s why I will never retire. You’ll find me in the back shop sorting stock and hatching ideas.Surinder Rehill, Surinder’s News, Newcastle upon Tyne      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Surinder Rehill: ‘Unless you specialise in something, you’re gone. I’m selling up, getting out.’ Photograph: Robert Ormerod for the GuardianMy mum said that running a newsagents is nothing but a pain in the arse: “People say, ‘I didn’t get my magazine; I didn’t get my bingo card in the paper.’” She was 100% right. It’s the hardest thing you can do. My family got into shops when they moved up to the north-east in 1979. I was born in Southall in London, where my parents raised their family. My dad was born in Singapore, coming over here when he was 18, and my mum was born in India.I got my shop in October 2005 – it used to be a post office. I bought it as a newsagents and card shop. The first couple of years were brilliant, but when the credit crunch came, people panicked and started cancelling papers and magazine subscriptions. I used to get 60 Radio Times a week when I first opened; now I get 16. So now I’m getting out, selling up, and I’m going to run a bar.I paid £50,000 for the shop on leasehold. I had it up for sale for £65,000, but in the past few weeks I’ve reduced the asking price to £35,000. The decline in newsagents over the last 10 years has been unbelievable. At one time, all the Asians wanted to do it, but now the second-generation Asians want to be doctors, dentists, and their families don’t want them to have shops any more. When the credit crunch came, people panicked and started cancelling papers and magazine subscriptions When I first got the shop I used to open 6am-6pm on Saturdays. Now I open 8am-4pm. Waitrose moved in, and now Sainsbury’s is coming. Unless you specialise in something, you’re gone. I had to add a sandwich bar at the back eight years ago. That accounts for about 30% of my sales now. Newspapers are still about 50%, and the rest is sweets and groceries.I’ve done lots of jobs. I sold vacuum cleaners door-to-door for seven years – that was easier than running a paper shop. Yusuf and Sabi Gulamali, Maks News, Bethnal Green, London      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Yusuf and Sabi Gulamali: ‘When our first daughter was born, we’d bring her in and put her in a box on the counter.’ Photograph: Sophia Spring for the GuardianEveryone calls me Joe. People used to find it difficult to pronounce Yusuf, so that’s fine with me. They’ve been calling me that for 27 years: we bought the shop in December 1988. I used to work for one of the big multiples, and I got fed up with taking orders from people who were much less experienced than me, so I decided to go independent. It took me about two years to find this shop, but when I saw it, I had a feeling in my gut that I could achieve something here. We first came on a Sunday, which was the flower market, and it was very attractive.We’re in the heart of the East End, so the people round here are very down-to-earth, humble people. We used to live upstairs in a two‑bedroom flat. Sabi used to work in banking, but a year after we got the shop, she wanted to start a family. When our first daughter was born, she would bring her in and put her in a box on the counter if I needed help. We live in Stanmore now, but we still have the flat upstairs, and we let friends and relatives stay there when they need to; we don’t rent it out.It became a very successful business, but gradually the big boys – Tesco Express, Costcutter, Sainsbury’s – moved in on the main road not far away and we really felt the impact. I used to sell almost 350 Easter eggs, and after they moved in that number went to nothing. We were the first to introduce organic food and we used to have 30% of our stock organic, but now that is 10% because the big boys did the same thing. We put our little bakery in, and that was going really well. It’s not too bad now, but Sainsbury’s have their own in store bakery.This area has diversified a lot and there are trendy shops on this street, but we all work in tandem and help each other out. We sell a lot of those trendy monthly mags: we sold the highest number of Wallpaper* magazines when it first came out, and we got a letter from them congratulating us.Sundays are a fun day for us, and my two younger daughters Zainab and Fatima come and work with us because it is busy. Sabi makes samosas, which are very popular. We used to sell 400 every Sunday; now we sell 200, which is still good. They come three for £2 with a choice of tamarind or garlic sauce.We’ve been married 31 years. It was an arranged marriage, but we liked each other and something must have been right because we still talk to each other. We are Muslim, so we pray five times a day, and fast, but we don’t have time to go to the mosque. We’re not strict, but I don’t like to sell alcohol or pork products on principle. We open at 7am and close at 6.30pm, and at the weekend we close at 3.30pm. We are holding on, but it is not as easy as it used to be.Andrew Faulks, Stans Shop, St Martin’s, Oswestry, and Llangollen, Wales      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Andrew Faulks: ‘Some people come in three times a day. They get their bread, a chat and a meal.’ Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianGrandad Stan started the shop in the Welsh border village in 1947. He’d been a Japanese prisoner of war, weighed five and a half stone. Uncle Jack set him up in a fish and chip shop, and when the sweet shop next door packed up, he took it over. It was a mining village then. People would ask him to get something, and he’d take the bus into Oswestry and bring it back. He used to sell Bell’s whisky below cost price, to get people in. Bell’s complained.It’s 28,000 sq ft now, but we offer a family village shop service. I was a late starter, at nine. I’m 44 now, and I know that many people by sight. It’s like a social club. Some people come in three times a day. They get their bread, a chat and a meal. We do pensioners’ specials, three courses for £4.69. The coffee shop is getting busier and busier. People do basket shopping much more now. They call in every day, spend £7 or so. We see people four, five times a week. We've given £24,000 to the community in the last six years We keep it local. We have 85 suppliers from within 30 miles. We’ve taken on Keith from Sid’s the butcher in Ellesmere, who was retiring. A local firm fitted our 570 solar panels.We have a shop in Llangollen that is doing well; we’ve never made anyone redundant. Of the 85 full-time staff, I reckon 65 have been with us for 15 years or more. Vera has been with us 40 years; Keith and Pauline 30. We always give something for raffles and things. Schools, clubs, anyone who asks. We’ve given £24,000 to the community in the last six years.How has it changed? It’s never been a rich area. Thirty years ago, people didn’t have credit cards. Now it’s buy-now-and-worry-about-it-later. In the old days, they went without.Someone did a runner last week from the garage. That means we will have to sell 1,480 more litres of petrol to make up the loss. That’s how tight it is.