In 1977, my parents bought a house in the Harare suburb of Tynwald, in what was then still Rhodesia. The Second Chimurenga, the war of liberation, was at its zenith, and independence was only three years away. Tynwald was zoned for white residents only, but, in an act of wilful defiance carried out with affected but determined nonchalance, my parents made their own Unilateral Declaration of Independence and forcibly integrated the neighbourhood, aided and abetted by their estate agent, Peggy Healy, a white immigrant from England.My family had returned from the US two years before. Even with two degrees from American universities, my father had never contemplated us living anywhere but home. We had camped out first with relatives in the township, and then in rented accommodation. After this, the house at Tynwald, a sprawling L-shape with five acres of grounds, a long driveway and a guava orchard, seemed like paradise. Of course, the move attracted attention. There must have been legal wrangling to which we children were oblivious, but I do remember a camera crew arriving to take pictures of us all (my parents, my brothers, my little sister, Mavhu, and me) in our new home for a magazine feature on examples of the country’s gradual shift towards racial equality.Despite all this, the real event of the year, at least for me and my brothers, was the release of the first Star Wars movie. My father dropped us off at the Kine 1 in town, and for the next two hours, along with audiences across the globe, we journeyed to a galaxy far, far away. It was the first time I had been to the cinema, and though my father was late picking us up, we hardly noticed. As we waited, my younger brother Nhamu and I re-enacted scenes from the film while Richard, our older brother, tried to contain our exuberance.In December 2015 I was back in Harare for a holiday, and, along with my husband, daughter, and Richard’s two children, Farai and Tariro, I watched the latest instalment in the Star Wars saga, whooping with joy as John Boyega made his appearance as Finn, the black Stormtrooper. By then, both my brothers had died, Richard in a car accident, Nhamu after a stroke. Every moment of the film, from the reunion between Han Solo and Princess Leia to C-3PO’s familiar wittering, made me long for their company. Afterwards, we went home to the new house in Marlborough where my parents had moved after selling the property in Tynwald, our family home for 37 years. What had been a bucolic semi-rural suburb, complete with a fishing stream and anthills heaving with ishkwa, the flying ants that are a rainy-season delicacy, was now surrounded by high-density townships and cut through by a major highway. When a neighbour, a Chinese expatriate who sold light industrial equipment from his yard, made an offer, my parents were finally persuaded to move.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Voters in Harare line up to cast their ballots Zimbabwe’s 2008 election. Photograph: Getty ImagesIn the years between, Rhodesia had become Zimbabwe. A lot has changed. While my country remains blessed with temperate weather and people whose dignity and forbearance inspire me every day, the political aspirations of 1977 seem as distant a possibility as the hope Nhamu and I had of Han Solo turning up at our doorstep with an invitation to join the crew of the Millennium Falcon. Most people struggle to meet basic needs and many of my parents’ generation, whose defiance and determination won the nation’s freedom, find their pensions worthless as a result of economic collapse. Many endure the loneliness that is a result of the massive exodus of the young to seek their fortunes elsewhere, as I have done.In his memoir, Black Gold of the Sun, the Ghanaian writer Ekow Eshun writes of his love of comic books, speculating that African children of the diaspora have a unique affinity with superheroes. It is a sense of belonging elsewhere, a longing for a special power that will both set them apart from the society they live in and ensure them admiration and acceptance. His memoir evokes a particular African childhood that inspired me to think of my own – as influenced by a fictional Empire as it was by political turmoil. I devoured it, along with Binyavanga Wainaina’s One Day I Will Write About This Place and Aminatta Forna’s The Devil That Danced on the Water. Yet I wanted more: more stories about the events – big and small – that form my continent’s recent past and present.My thirst has been slaked somewhat by the extraordinary writing that has emerged from Africa in the last decade, appearing in journals such as Kwani? and Chimurenga. But as a reader and publisher, I still find myself longing for a wider choice. Perhaps because of our turbulent struggle against colonialism, the polemic is well wrought in Africa and, from Achebe to Adichie, our fiction has received recognition for decades. But African creative non-fiction, from the personal essay to the travelogue to the forensic investigation, seems, to me, to be in a germinal phase. This must be due partly to a lack of resources. You have to leave your study to write compelling non-fiction. It takes time and money.I can understand that it’s almost always easier for editors to commission writers based in Paris, London or New York to bring their readers the news. I’ve done it myself in a career publishing non-fiction books and commissioning reportage for a literary journal – selecting seasoned professionals who have a proven record of writing for international audiences means less risk. But readers demonstrate again and again their capacity to expand their horizons, and opting for the expected cheats us all of the discovery of the hidden complexities that only a story told from a local point of view can give.Creative non-fiction has the potential to close the gap between here and there, then and now, us and them. Yet, too often, this kind of writing about Africa has been at a distance, with the directive for “expert opinion” and “objectivity” stripping narratives of the blood and tears that make for truly remarkable storytelling. To realise that potential, we need to support writers and celebrate new ways of telling Africa’s past and present. This also means encouraging an expansion of the marketplace, by trusting that readers will respond positively to writing by people who are usually seen as subjects for a foreign correspondent’s investigations. Publishers, editors and other gatekeepers have the opportunity to bring readers unique perspectives that will begin to define a specifically African genre of creative non-fiction, one inflected by the geography and politics, the cultures and histories, of the continent.Han Solo, Chewbacca and the Tynwald land tenure rebellion do not form any part of the popular narrative that informs discussion of Zimbabwe’s current predicament. And yet, it is memories such as these – of ordinary citizens standing up against the colour bar, of the euphoria in the first days of our hard-won independence – that have the potential to inspire the desire for change today.• Safe House: An Anthology of Creative Non-Fiction edited by Ellah Wakatama Allfrey is published by Cassava Republic, in partnership with Commonwealth Writers. To order a copy for £10.39 (RRP £12.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.