Stephen Karam is of two minds about the Tony awards. His drama The Humans is the favorite to win the best new play category, and while Karam is appropriately honored and thrilled to attend, he admits that ideally he’d watch the show as he usually does, in the safety of his apartment, among friends, eating ice cream.  “I am, of course, very, very excited,” he says, but “wouldn’t it be great if I could watch it on TV and then maybe go to an after party?” Karam, 36, has close-cropped graying hair and a pale, serious face that fractures into an appealing goofiness when he deploys his sizable grin. He is an affable mix of extroverted and introverted, sardonic and sincere, jokey and reserved. He arrives for breakfast at a Korean pastry shop having already eaten – he’s an exhaustingly early riser – and discusses how the artistic and financial success of The Humans has changed his life. And how it hasn’t.  He first attracted notice a decade ago with Columbinus, a play he co-wrote based on the Columbine school shooting. A few years after, he debuted Speech & Debate, a play about three teens who develop a tentative alliance in the wake of sexual trauma, and followed it with the Pulitzer-nominated Sons of the Prophet, about a misfortune-prone Lebanese American family (Karam himself is half Lebanese American, half Irish American). The Humans review – Thanksgiving tensions give rise to great drama  The Humans, which played in Chicago and at the Roundabout Theater before transferring to Broadway, has earned the kinds of reviews that not even a first-born child buys any more. The New York Times called it “blisteringly funny, bruisingly sad, and altogether wonderful” while the Washington Post described it as a work of “exceptional authenticity and continual surprise”.Karam has termed the play, which is mostly set around a Thanksgiving table, “a family thriller”. A mother, a father, a senile grandmother and an elder daughter have arrived at the new apartment of younger daughter Brigid and her boyfriend for a holiday meal. Beneath the camaraderie and occasionally barbed banter lurks a growing sense of desperation and despair. Everyone is struggling – with physical illness, with mental upset, with financial insecurity. The fizzling light bulbs and overhead thumps lend a further feeling of disquiet. Despite all this, The Humans somehow remains a deeply compassionate and wildly comic play. Karam hopes that this mix of darkness and light, all grounded in the particular truth and circumstances of this family, will make audiences “feel less alone and less depressed, less sad about the horrors of everyday life”. All of Karam’s plays, he says, come from a place of “what’s keeping me up at night”. Originally, he thought The Humans would center on the disenchantment of the post-9/11 world and the 2008 financial crisis, but eventually these more global subjects receded and he felt himself drawn back to a more familiar subject, the bonds and burdens of family.   Reed Birney as Erik Blake in Stephen Karam’s The Humans. Photograph: Joan Marcus Does the family in The Humans resemble his own? Perhaps. The play is “emotional autobiography, but it’s not literal autobiography”, he says. The family hails from Scranton, Pennsylvania, as does his own, and some of the details, like a ritual smashing of a “peppermint pig”, are borrowed from his own relations. The creepy apartment is a mash-up of two places he has lived, a basement duplex on Manhattan’s Upper West Side and a Chinatown tenement. “So I’m drawing on real things, but ultimately I’ve written a fictional play,” he says. That play continues to reveal itself to him. He hadn’t realized how much it centers on three romantic unions – the burgeoning one between the younger daughter and her boyfriend, the severed one between the elder daughter and her girlfriend, the suddenly vulnerable one between the parents. It’s only recently that he’s been able to stand back and realize: “Oh, maybe this is me trying to make sense of relationships in some way.”That’s one of the freedoms a long run affords. There are others, too. The money from the Broadway run has enabled Karam to relax, at least a little. He comes from a family that has always been careful with its finances, so he hasn’t spent his weekly checks on a new sofa or a nicer apartment. Instead, he has saved the money, in the hopes that it will buy him the time “to write a play that’s even weirder and stranger, that’s coming from an unforced place”, he says. “That’s so luxurious.” However, he did admit to ordering slightly more expensive takeout meals. “In the wake of having a show on Broadway, I have sometimes been getting the appetizer,” he says. He made one further splurge, treating his parents to a hotel room so that they could attend opening night and stay for the after party. They were so anxious not to miss it that even though their hotel was across the street from the theater, they arrived two hours early to collect their tickets. “They’ve now seen it eight times,” he says. And many Scrantonites have followed their lead, which Karam has found unexpectedly heartening. “When you’re the artsy weirdo introverted outsider growing up, you don’t fit into your community,” he says, so he’s been happily surprised that the same community is now celebrating him. He’s been doing some celebrating, too. He’s seen all of the other nominated plays (several of the musicals, as well) and his praise for them sounds genuine and spontaneous. “It’s exhilarating to take in the awesome stuff that other people are doing,” he says. He has particular admiration for the specificity of the world conjured in Danai Gurira’s Eclipsed, for the thrilling language of Mike Bartlett’s King Charles III, for the “inventive, glorious” structure of Florian Zeller’s The Father. Besides, he says: “The best thing about being nominated in a category like best new play is realizing there were enough new plays to make a category.” Karam has recruited his lookalike elder sister, a comforting and stable presence in his life, as his Tony date. He can lean on her if nervousness pervades when they announce that category. But at least he’s had one anxiety relieved. Playwriting is his forte, not fashion, as his slack gray T-shirt suggests, and he had worried over what to wear. But “crazily enough”, he says, Vogue has offered to dress him. So as long as he’s on the red carpet and not at home in his pajamas, “I’m going to wear whatever Anna Wintour tells me to.”