I part the curtains and enter a tiny room. It’s an intimate, low-lit space, with gold streamers hanging from the walls. There is a table with two chairs facing each other. As I take my seat, Eugénie Pastor stands with her back to me in the corner, wearing an off-the-shoulder ballgown.We’re in the basement of Camden People’s Theatre and Pastor is giving me a special performance of Pube, her one-on-one show, part of the theatre’s new season Calm Down Dear: A Festival of Feminism. Calm down? If only I could. When I emerge 45 minutes later, I am marginally lighter and recall having had my trousers round my ankles.Anyway, once I’m settled, the 31-year-old Frenchwoman begins singing some words to the tune of I’ve Got You Under My Skin. “I say to myself,” she sings, “this hair will always grow so well. Why should I try to resist when I know you so well? I’ve got you under my skin.” Next, she smiles sweetly, then starts to roll up her skirt, revealing a pubic wig made of gold streamers that echo the ones lining the walls. Nice touch. She removes this and places it on her face.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Slight terror … Stuart Jeffries prepares for his portrait. Photograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianI’m giggling now, but only to cover my slight terror at how things got so weird so quickly. Magically, the pubic wig has now become a beard. If I have a dream tonight about Jeremy Corbyn as a 1970s disco diva, shaking a sparkling beard-merkin and singing I Will Survive, I’ll know who to thank.Pastor removes the beard, sits down opposite and breaks the ice by telling me about how she used to shave her pubes. I’ve been on weirder first dates. “I used to shave along the labia, along the bikini line, you know?” she says. “Yes indeed!” I reply. Now she doesn’t. Now she just shaves her legs below the thighs. “What about you?” she asks and I feel like someone in a confessional, with nothing remotely diverting to offer the waiting priest. Then we’re off on a conversation about how pubic hair is shaped by prevailing patriarchal norms. Pastor cites Judith Butler, the American gender theorist, and I mention how John Ruskin quailed on seeing his wife naked on their wedding night, presumably after spending so much time looking at art history’s pube-free parade of sexually commodified nudes.Pastor tells me the dismal story of a friend who got off with a bloke at a party but then decided not to invite him back to her place for sex because she was embarrassed that she hadn’t shaved her pubes. He wouldn’t have cared, I suggest. But she did, Pastor retorts, adding that young boys – their sensibilities ravaged by porn – are now also increasingly shaving their pubic hair so they can live up to the bodies they see online.  Pastor glues some of my hair on to the portrait. Ta-da! I'm now as lavishly locked as I was at the age of 20 Pastor then uses a camera lucida to project an outline of my face on to a piece of paper, tracing the image with pencil and then sketching in details. I am then invited to pass into a second curtained space containing a full-length mirror and, on a table, some water, a towel, soap, scissors and a little box. If I want, says Pastor, I can cut a few locks of my pubic hair for use in this portrait. It would be ungallant, or just wimpish, not to produce the goods. So I drop my trousers and boxers and look into the mirror. A note stuck to the frame asks when I last looked at my pubes. Not recently. My privacy is guaranteed, Pastor assures me, though she remains very close. As I snip, I can hear her next door, humming along to a tune she’s playing on a small keyboard.Bearing my pube-filled box, I return to the first room. Pastor glues some of my hair on to the portrait. Ta-da! Bald Jeffries has become, thanks to this graft, as lavishly locked as he was at 20. Pastor asks me to suggest a title. I propose, being slightly hysterical now, Gorgeous Hairy Man. And then Pastor sings to me one last time, a plaintive version of Lady Gaga’s Hair on her dinky keyboard. She looks deep into my eyes and sings earnestly: “I’ve had enough, this is my prayer / That I’ll die livin’ just as free as my hair.” By this stage, I’m beyond hysteria and applaud happily. My only regret, I think, as I return to the theatre lobby, is that we didn’t duet.A few minutes later, Pastor joins me at the bar and I ask her what that was all about. She has a doctorate from the University of London in movement, intimacies and space in contemporary physical theatres. Clearly, she explores these issues in Pube. “I’m interested in how theatre can be something more than a performance of virtuosity for a paying audience,” she says. When I suggest that there’s a possibility that audiences will mistake Pube for a therapy session, she doesn’t demur.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I think it’s rich terrain’ … Eugénie Pastor. Photograph: Sarah Lee for the Guardian“I like the parallel. I’m trying to create a time and space outside the normal world where we can think about something that’s, if not quite taboo, then regarded as disgusting. I’ve already had a lot of very intimate conversations, especially with women. British people have the reputation of being very secretive. But, in performing Pube, I’ve found that not to be true. I think it’s rich terrain. Why do we cut our pubic hair? What forces make us do these things?” Pastor performed Pube at Folkestone’s Women of the World festival earlier this year, and most of her punters were women. She hopes a higher proportion of men will attend her London shows. She says her mother thinks the idea of the show is very strange, but was mollified to learn that the arts council partly funds Pube, giving it the seal of official respectability.Pastor clearly isn’t in this for the money: it costs £6 to be her audience member for 45 minutes. Perhaps she should consider admitting more than one person at a time? “I tried that. Didn’t really work – friends would disappear into a conversation of their own sometimes. I’d like to try it with couples though.”I wonder if the Lady Gaga song contains the moral of the show: be free, let your hair run wild, don’t let your parents snip away at your dreams. Pastor smiles but says: “I don’t want to be another voice telling people what to do. I want to empower people to make their own decisions. Pubic hair is treated as gross – when, in reality, it can be something pretty and delicate.”Pube is at Camden People’s Theatre, London, 7-8 October. Details: cptheatre.co.uk