I loved this book. It is a real eye opener about how some young people have to live their lives. It has tremendous pace, a little humour and a lot of heart-wrenching sadness along with lively characters that are very real.Bradley, known as Bully, lives on the streets of London with his dog Jack, a bitch. After his mother’s death he felt unable to continue living in the flat that they had shared with her boyfriend Phil and his Bully’s half sister Cortnie. He has no one to trust apart from Jack, the dog his mum let him keep after having dragged her from under a four wheel drive in a car park. I liked Bully from the start of the story because even though he begs for money and sometimes steals, he is really gutsy and doesn’t complain about the terrible blow that life has dealt him. He misses his Mum terribly and one day while he is looking again at the birthday card she gave him before she died a lottery ticket falls out of the musical mechanism of the card. He remembers that it is the ticket he bought for her from his local shop. He thinks that all his troubles are over when he finds that it is a winning ticket and his head is full of all the things he is going to buy with his winnings. There are ,however, several drawbacks; only people over the age of sixteen can take part in the lottery. so he has to find someone whom he can trust to make the claim for him. He is penniless and realises that he will have to make his claim by going to the lottery office in Watford and there are only six days left until the ticket runs out and the winnings given to charity.Bully knows that he will have to be careful about who he asks for help, but we meet a string of people who want to rob him of his winnings and we watch him a couple of nail biting nights as his ticket and even his life are in danger. Soon the news is on social media and all sorts of evil people are looking for him. Will he get to Watford in time? And will he be able to claim his winnings?How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? You will find the book really hard to put down as you travel northwards with Bully hoping against hope that he will escape the clutches of everyone who is looking for him, and like me, I am sure that you will love the family who want to help him even though he has broken into their home and stolen from him. I am looking forward to Michael Byrne’s next book. • Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!