Jericho9pm, ITVEpisode two of writer Steve Thompson’s navvy lark drama, and schoolmaster’s widow Annie (Jessica Raine) and her family continue to adjust to their reduced circumstances in a frontier Yorkshire shanty town. In this, they’re not helped by the unwelcome presence of railway detective Bamford (Mark Addy), who’s investigating the explosion at the viaduct at the behest of landowner Charles Blackwood (Daniel Rigby). Can Annie and enigmatic Johnny Jackson (Hans Matheson) keep their dark secret? Jonathan WrightRoom 1018.30pm, BBC1David Tennant wants to put sushi into the titular dungeon. “It doesn’t even come with chips!” “To be fair,” says Frank Skinner, “you come from a place where they won’t even eat raw Mars bars.” Elsewhere, comedian Aisling Bea has it in for pigeons, along with adults on scooters (“like getting breastfed at 40”). But what are we to make of the rapturous applause that greets Sir Trevor McDonald’s request for less queuing? Truly, the UK is going to hell in a handcart. Ali CatterallBusting The Drugs Millions: Inside The National Crime Agency10pm, Channel 4Gripping inside story of a drugs bust, illustrated with NCA documents and surveillance footage. The film recalls a nine-month operation that began with the monitoring of a single suspect and ended with dozens of officers working to dismantle one of Britain’s largest criminal networks, thought to be worth at least £180m. That this is a fraction of the many billions in illegal traffic that occurs annually does not make the accomplishment, in and of itself, any less impressive. Andrew MuellerBrian Pern: 45 Years Of Prog And Roll10pm, BBC4A new series of affectionate mockumentaries following Brian Pern, the erstwhile frontman of progressive rockers Thotch. In tonight’s first episode, Brian unveils a radical look, courtesy of new wife Astrid (Suranne Jones), who reveals that she will soon be taking over as Brian’s manager. Astrid’s quest for easy money lands Brian at the Isle Of Wight festival, and also on a Thotch fan cruise, complete with celebrity auction. John Thomson gets it just right as Thotch’s fan club president, Perry. John RobinsonThe Venture Bros11pm, FOXA long-running cult in the US, this Adult Swim animated series spoofs 1960s Hanna-Barbera shows such as Jonny Quest by injecting off-colour gags, existential ennui and a barrage of pop-culture riffs. A Halloween special from 2012 might not be the best introduction to the perpetually exasperated Dr Venture and his golly-gosh sons Dean and Hank, but it’s fairly representative of the show’s inventiveness and fizzy wit, with the added bonus of guest star JK Simmons voicing a Lebowski-like hermit with a secret. Graeme VirtueScandal10pm, Sky LivingAs the fifth season of Shonda Rhimes’s twisty White House soap continues, President Fitz delivers a speech so saccharine it ought to come with its own sugar tax. As he expresses regret about his affair with political fixer Olivia (Kerry Washington), he’s unaware that his paramour has in fact helped her father, a murderer, break out of prison on his watch. Less improbable is tonight’s main storyline, which focuses on a woman who comes to Olivia to accuse a celebrated author of sexual assault. Hannah J DaviesToday’s best live sportTest Cricket: South Africa v England The third Test gets underway in Johannesburg. 8am, Sky Sports 2Big Bash Cricket: Melbourne Stars v Brisbane Heat Coverage of a game at the MCG as the Aussie T20 tournament continues. 8.30am, Sky Sports 1Snooker: The Masters Coverage of the opening quarter-final. 1pm, BBC2Johnstone’s Paint Trophy Football Millwall v Oxford United. Action from The Den. 7.30pm, Sky Sports 1Film choiceLord Jim (Richard Brooks, 1965) 11am, Film4This noble attempt to bring Joseph Conrad’s classic novel of guilt and redemption to the screen is aided by an excellent, quivering performance from Peter O’Toole. His Lord Jim is a merchant seaman branded a coward after abandoning his ship. To atone, he makes risky trips upriver in south-east Asia. The other star of the film is Freddie Young, whose cinematography creates a strange and menacing jungle world. Paul HowlettHot Fuzz (Edgar Wright, 2007) 9pm, ITV2The Wright-Pegg pairing follow their zombie-slacker debut Shaun Of The Dead with this fall-about parody of the American action movie. It’s set in a Somerset village, but that doesn’t stop odd-couple cops Simon Pegg and Nick Frost reworking every cliche in the Hollywood crime handbook. PH