George Monbiot (Putting a price on the rivers and rain diminishes us all, 7 August) is right to say the logic behind valuing ecosystem services is coherent and plausible. If they have no monetary value, their assumed value is zero. If their value is zero, then destroying them is harmless, despoiling them no loss, poisoning them no problem. For half a century, the green movement has urged greater awareness, more conservation, reducing our footprint on nature. Yet despite some limited successes, this approach has failed overall. Our demands on the natural environment are rising, not falling.Valuing natural capital requires us to train accountants to value every tiny, implausible detail of the biosphere around us. Will it work? Who knows? But so far nothing else has. We pay museums and galleries to act as stewards of our heritage assets. Who do we pay to look after our natural assets? If the answer is "nobody", what result would we expect?Valuing assets is one thing, but trading them is another. Monbiot's concerns about the prospect of a "market" in ecosystem services are well-founded. There is little doubt that if this government could find a way of doing it, it would but as Monbiot points out, it is almost impossible to do. Despite the risk of some bizarre kind of market emerging, valuing natural capital is still the right thing to do.Alastair McCapraChief executive, Landscape Institute• Monbiot does well to compare the monetisation of ecosystem services to the enclosures of common land. What price the biosphere? Before we rush to financialise ecosystem services, or to counter this tendency with cries of horror about corporate greed, why not acknowledge that we don't yet know how ecosystem services – or biodiversity – actually work? Ecosystems have functional values in dimensions that science can measure. Surely the first thing to do is to demonstrate the dependence of all terrestrial life on ecosystems in a practical, measurable way that everyone can understand. It should then be obvious that humanity has a special responsibility in respect of the biosphere which cannot possibly be discharged by selling chunks of it to anyone.Michael DunwellStaunton, Gloucestershire• George Monbiot is making a big mistake in arguing for a market-free world. Demand for access to fragile areas for tourism and extraction of resources, combined with scarcity, creates a market whether he likes it or not. The issue is whether it is shaped in a rational way and how it is regulated. The creation of incentives to invest in the conservation of biodiversity creates the possibility of a win for communities (investment in eco-tourism and its community infrastructure), for nature (price denotes real value creating a disincentive to destroy), and for investors (income from bonds over time). Those following the mythical path, denying the reality of market mechanisms, create obstacles to sustainable conservation.Jeremy RossAshtead, Surrey• When land is taken into private ownership, in effect duty-free land enclosure, the landowner levies a charge on all that that land produces. This means all who do not have free access to land but need to use it for whatever work they undertake have a portion of the fruits of their labour paid to someone who does not work. Monbiot reveals that the UK has a natural capital committee, an ecosystem markets task force which proposes to pay landowners, "the providers of ecosystems", for their services, either by the government or by "users". This would further increase the cost to society of almost everything, as most of our land is privately owned.As the value of the land is determined by the community, why not tax the landowners for the use of it – land value taxation. This would resolve many problems, particularly speculation by those holding land in disuse to increase its value. This would encourage them to either use the land more profitably, or make it available for others to do so.Mary LawSt Albans, Hertfordshire• George Monbiot flits from being a hard-headed pragmatic green – pro-nuclear power – to dreamy romantic all too readily. His opposition to "pricing nature" seems very principled, the principle being of course that one day capitalism is going to up sticks and walk away. I disagree with him wholeheartedly, since capitalism seems perfectly capable of withstanding even the shocks it creates for itself. This must partly be explained by its readiness to exploit human or natural resources at less than their actual value. The greatest challenge "greening" society faces is to make us pay the actual value of what it is we consume, and if that means pricing rivers, so be it.But long before that we will perhaps develop an effective system of paying for the embedded carbon in our goods, the exploitation of child labour, the true cost of our waste and even for the legacy of our current tenancy of this planet. The task is to "commonise" the commons, and make us all pay our fair share for our use of it. If we did that, such abominations as the Alberta tar sands, as much a part of "nature" as a pretty stream, would be less attractive to the money grubbers.Colin ChallenScarborough, North Yorkshire• Anyone worried about George Monbiot's article on commodification of nature may like to read Antonio Tricario's piece about the global nature of financialisation or privatisation of common resources, in Red Pepper this month. And if you thought the free marketeers had learned a lesson from the financial crash of 2008, they are voracious in seeking new ways of making money. In other words they know the price of everything and value of nothing. It is sad that this began in Britain under Labour, but Nick Clegg perpetuated government policy when he addressed the Natural Capital summit in Rio in June advocating natural capital accounting. If you put a price tag on nature, you create a market.Dr Graham UllathorneChesterfield, Derbyshire