Bill Oddie, the naturalist, calls it the Chiswick flyover, for reasons that will shortly become clear. Its other names include Polly washdish, Nanny washtail and washerwoman, from its habit of feeding along the edge of ponds and streams. It is one of our commonest and most familiar birds, yet it is often overlooked and is rarely mentioned with the same affection as our usual favourites, such as the robin and blackbird. And yet of all our garden visitors, its habits are among the most endearing. It is, of course, the pied wagtail.Everywhere I have lived, from the centre of London, via the sprawling suburbs, to the heart of rural England, pied wagtails have lived alongside me. Here in Somerset I usually hear them as they fly overhead, uttering that distinctive, two-note "chis-ick" call – hence the nickname.The main reason for their ubiquity is their diet. Pied wagtails feed on tiny insects, so small that other ground-feeding birds generally ignore them. Pied wagtails can often be seen pottering about on pavements and roadside verges, picking up these meagre morsels of food with that sharp, pointed bill.Their characteristic gait, a jerky walk with the constantly wagging tail, makes them easy to pick out, as does their distinctive black-and-white plumage. Rarely has a bird been so well named.In fact pied wagtails are a peculiarly British bird. Throughout the rest of its range, from Scandinavia to Kamchatka in the Russian Far East, and across the Bering Strait to Alaska, this species is known as the "white wagtail". The British race, the pied wagtail, has a much darker back: almost black in the male, compared with pale grey in the white wagtail. Females are harder to tell apart, though they tend to be darker than their continental counterparts.The pied wagtail may be quiet and modest, but it does have one unusual habit. On winter evenings, hundreds of them gather in large and noisy roosts: in shopping malls, on industrial estates, and anywhere else with plenty of artificial lighting. These roosts provide safety in numbers against nocturnal predators such as owls, and also allow the wagtails to huddle up together against the cold.The pied wagtails around my home show some fascinating behaviour, too. Males can be very territorial, taking up a position on our tiled roof, and chasing any intruders away in a twisting, acrobatic flight, uttering a harsher and more urgent version of that flight call.Two other species of wagtail also breed in Britain, the grey and yellow wagtails. Despite their names they are often confused with one another, as the grey wagtail is a striking bird with plenty of lemon-yellow in its plumage.Grey wagtails are resident, and often found along fast-flowing rivers and streams, while the yellow wagtail is purely a summer visitor, found mainly in wet-meadows such as those on Tealham Moor, a short distance from my home.Sadly, like so many other migrants, it is in sharp decline, so a glimpse of these "flying lemons" is now a rare and very welcome sight.