Spoiler alert: do not read unless you’ve seen episode seven of Broadchurch. “I will cut your tiny little cocks off.” In the penultimate episode of the last series of Broadchurch, David Tennant’s Hardy finally faces the schoolboys who have been making his daughter’s life miserable – and he’s not mincing his words. Whether it’s the central rape case, teenage girls finding that intimate pictures of them have been shared around, or their male peers swapping porn on their smartphones, much of this series has been about the shades of misogyny that are part of women’s lives on a daily basis.It is not surprising that sexism has been a focal point. The third series began as an investigation into the rape of one woman, Trish Winterman (Julie Hesmondhalgh, proving once more that she could make watching a character doingtheir tax return gripping) and has widened into a large-scale hunt for a serial rapist. But as much as it has been a thriller and whodunnit, it has also been about men and women, power and imbalance.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   As much as it’s been a large-scale hunt for a serial rapist, it’s also been about men and women, power and imbalance. Photograph: Colin Hutton/ITVAt this stage, we are almost certain of the culprit – the wife of taxi driver Clive has broken into his locked drawer and discovered what appear to be trophies from the women he has attacked – and all that is needed now is for Miller to reduce the prime suspect to rubble with a withering look of disdain, or for Hardy’s accent to thicken with rage as the duo finally arrest him. We have waded through scores of suspects to get here, and even as the investigation narrowed, it maintained suspense by suggesting that any number of men in Trish’s life could have been responsible. Taken to a lazy conclusion, this would imply that all men are potential rapists, but Broadchurch is more sophisticated than that. Instead, it reframes the way pernicious misogyny can exist, at many different levels, and asks if we’re comfortable with it creeping into the lives of both men and women.Broadchurch recap: series three, episode seven – whose DNA is on sock No 2? Hardy and Miller’s investigation prises open the community. When the focus hones in on just a handful of suspects we find that each of these men has behaved badly and is struggling to comprehend that they’ve actually done anything damaging. Trish’s boss, Ed, has been stalking her for years. He claims he loves her and would never do her harm. Anyone who has experienced stalking knows that it is frightening and invasive; it’s not love, but control. Trish’s estranged husband, Ian, who left her for a younger colleague, had spyware installed on her laptop to watch her whenever he wants to, because, he says, he missed her. Then there’s Jim, the married mechanic who sleeps around on his wife, who leers at women, those pinned up on the walls of his garage and a younger waitress at his wife’s party. When questioned, he sneers at Hardy that he would do the same – it’s just what men do. Hardy is not having any of it. “I don’t subscribe to your version of the world, but I do worry about sending my daughter out with men like you in it,” he snarls back.In the background, there’s more. An early suspect, convicted rapist Aaron Mayford (the recipient of the iciest of Miller’s looks), talks calmly about how his victim asked for it, and intimidates the young female DC sent to watch him. Leo, the town’s creepy Zac Efron lookalike, says it’s fine that he installed spyware on Trish’s laptop at Ian’s behest, because they’re married. Even the local paper, now run by a centralised, ad-hungry, clickbait conglomerate, is gleefully running bikini pics alongside its news reports.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Even Broadchurch’s local paper, now run by a centralised, clickbait conglomerate, is running bikini pics alongside its news reports. Photograph: Colin Hutton/ITVThere were two scenes, however, that stood out in their veracity. When Trish tells Cath she slept with Jim, Cath’s response is one of anger and disgust – she floors Cath with the worst thing she can think of, and asks her who would want to rape her anyway. Even the crusading Miller pricks holes in the idea of sisterly solidarity when she rages at her younger colleague for destabilising the investigation: she’s had to confront years of sexism and had to fight for her place, so why shouldn’t Katie have faced the same? These were uncomfortable, frank observations that raised difficult truths.After mostly avoiding glaring, neon “sexism!” signposts, Broadchurch did finally tip into the obvious this week, when Trish’s daughter hastily organised the march, and the women of the town came together and lit up their phones. But at this point, after negotiating these violent crimes and the levels of contempt all around them, I think it has earned the right to be sentimental. As well as catching their man – and the case has been so changeable there may be more to it than just Clive yet – the finale has many more questions to answer, but perhaps it’s more important that it still has questions left to ask, too.