‘We are living inside nature’: Duncan Jackson, Martello Tower, Suffolk Industrial designer Jackson first came across his future home nearly 20 years ago, while out walking with friends. One of three Martello towers on a stretch of Suffolk coast near the villages of Bawdsey and Alderton, it had been derelict for 150 years. Both Jackson’s brother and mother had houses locally, as did friends, so he made some inquiries. He discovered that two of the towers belonged to a farmer, who invited him for lunch – the start of a long friendship – and agreed to sell him one: Tower Y.Built during the Napoleonic wars as part of the country’s coastal defences, Tower Y’s two-metre thick walls were designed to withstand cannon fire. These imposing buildings, up to 12 metres (40ft) high, would have been accessed via a ladder through a door hovering three metres (10ft) off the ground. Today, a metal staircase does the job. “Peeling back the building and working out how to convert it took time,” Jackson says.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Duncan Jackson’s converted Martello tower . Photograph: Luke WhiteAn industrial designer, he was keen to be involved, and worked closely with architect Stuart Piercy on a house that went on to win a Riba award in 2010. At the top is a kitchen/dining space, housed beneath a lightweight curving roof extension in steel and plywood, with frameless glass windows and 360-degree views. Below the kitchen, the living space is illuminated by narrow slits in the wall, originally for defensive musket fire. This huge area would have accommodated 24 soldiers and one officer, with fireplaces for cooking and heating. Bedrooms were relocated to the ground floor. The house won a RIBA award in 2010.Jackson’s wife Kristin is a gallerist and curator, and shipped their collection of prints, books and ceramics from her former home in Lake Michigan. Their daughter Lily was only 18 months old when the family moved in from London, and Jackson continued to commute to the capital three days a week. “As soon as children come inside, they start running around; it’s a playground for them,” he says. “Lily was learning to walk, and I can’t remember how many stair gates we installed.” Once they’d made the move, Jackson enjoyed his changed relationship with London. “I became a visitor, and made more of the city than when I lived there.”The best thing about the house is the “vast sky outside, that feeling of living inside nature,” Jackson says. “You can see the weather coming in, and feel the wind beneath the roof.” But it is also the worst. “The wind blows all the time on this stretch of coast, and it whips round the tower. Climbing the steps to the door, I am often blown sideways. But there’s something exciting about being in the heart of a storm.”‘The setting has given me so much mental freedom’: Reiko Kaneko, Stoke-on-Trent       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Reiko Kaneko’s workshop is housed in a former plaster-cast workshop. Photograph: Luke WhiteCeramicist Kaneko moved from Japan to London in 2002, to study at Central Saint Martins. A decade later, she decided to leave the busy borough of Hackney and move to Stoke-on-Trent in Staffordshire – the centre of Britain’s pottery industry – keen to tap into the area’s deep-rooted ceramics tradition, and give herself more space, mental and physical. “I wanted to get away from the distractions of London and focus on my work,” she says.Initially, she rented a light-filled studio in one of the town’s many Victorian industrial buildings, but has since expanded into the downstairs space; the decorative details on the ceiling are a reminder of its former life as a plaster-cast showroom. “Having this space has allowed me to experiment with different techniques – in my case, glazes that are special to bone china,” she says. “I spent my first two years here just experimenting.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Reiko Kaneko at home in her garden in Stoke-on-Trent. Photograph: Luke WhiteKaneko found a former mill to rent, 10 minutes from her studio, on an idyllic smallholding accessed via a footbridge that crosses a stream. Hens roam the garden. “This rural setting has given me so much mental freedom,” she says. “London can be overwhelming, and you can get stuck in a bubble. My perspectives have broadened.”Inside, the cottage is crisscrossed with rough wood beams. She displays apple blossom in her own ceramics, following the principles of ikebana, the Japanese art of flower arrangement. “You hold each stem in front of you, turn it around and consider its beauty and the aspects you’d like to display, before carefully placing it in the vase.”Having spent her childhood in Japan, Kaneko is fascinated by its ancient traditions and rituals, while also loving contemporary design. As a result, her delicate bone china pieces combine simple forms with modern twists – bold colourful glazes, a lipstick smear on a mug. She collaborates with companies such as SCP, for whom she has just designed a lounge chair, Orlando – her first foray into furniture. “I am drawn to natural materials, and anything that ages well,” she says.Once a week, Kaneko practices kyudo, an ancient form of Japanese archery, at a local studio housed in a former stables. Her home is filled with kyudo references, from fans to paper targets, and she admits that if she lived in Japan, this would become a daily ritual. “It’s really a standing meditation using a long bow,” she says. “I love the beauty of it, and the fact it keeps me in touch with my Japanese side.”‘The children have surfing on the curriculum’: Jonathan Walter and Lakshmi Bhaskaran, Cornwall      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The living room features their own designs, including the Acorn two-seater sofa in bright green, alongside vintage pieces such as the Willy Guhl Eternit concrete rocking chair. Photograph: Luke WhiteSix years ago, Walter and Bhaskaran arrived in Cornwall from west London in a vintage VW camper van filled with surfboards, to set up their furniture company, Bark. Now they are married with two small children, Indira and Ajay, a thriving business and a new home.The couple met while studying at the Rowden Atelier furniture school in Devon, taught by master craftsman David Savage. Bhaskaran gave up her career as a design writer to become a furniture designer and maker. Walter had also had another career, working in the City before taking up surfing and furniture-making in São Paulo, returning to the UK in 2006.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lakshmi Bhaskaran and Jonathan Walter with their children at home in Cornwall. Photograph: Luke WhiteThe couple set up in the small town of Stratton, just outside Bude, in what was originally the old rectory, which had been built in 1830 and was later divided in two (their lucky neighbours occupy the other half, where the Beatles allegedly stayed in the 1960s and scratched their names into the window). It still has the original front doorstep, a huge slab of slate, worn down over the centuries. Previous extensions provided an extra floor, as well as a light-filled corner living room.The couple have made few alterations to the house, beyond painting it white throughout and adding an orange carpet, which runs “like a ribbon” through the building. Their furniture and accessories reflect their love of contemporary design, ranging from a Marc Newson dish drainer to a concrete rocking chair by Willy Guhl and a Jack light by Tom Dixon. Meanwhile, the couple’s own creations for Bark reflect a love of mid-century design, from a writing desk and chair, to elegant armchairs, coffee tables and highchairs for their children. “We prefer to invest in contemporary design or make our own furniture,” says Bhaskaran.With their workshop only five minutes away, the move to Cornwall has allowed the couple to be home for the children’s bath and bedtime at six, before one of them returns to the workshop. “I haven’t been back to London in two years, and there is nothing I miss,” Bhaskaran says, pointing to “village fetes, surfing on the curriculum, beachcombing in the sunshine.”Creative Living Country is published on 30 March by Thames & Hudson at £19.95; photography by Luke White. To order a copy for £15.95, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846.