Gary Lineker has said competition between broadcasters for sports rights is so intense that the BBC cannot take holding on to Match of the Day for granted.The BBC presenter told the IAB Engage conference in London on Thursday that MOTD was “incredibly strong”, but added: “We are in a world of rights issues. You can’t ever take things for granted. We lost rights before.”The BBC currently has a three-year Premier League highlights deal running until the end of the 2018/19 season worth £204m. However it is facing huge budget cuts, in part due to the government’s decision to hand it the around £700m cost of paying for TV licences for the over-75s.BBC hits back at Daily Mail accusation of 'Brexit bias' Lineker said the corporation was being “hamstrung” by the government, urged on by parts of the media with a vested interest in seeing it weakened.He added he was unsure whether he would be included in new rules requiring the BBC to reveal the pay of stars earning over £150,000 because he is not paid directly by the corporation. Lineker is thought to be one of the highest-paid stars at the BBC.“It’s just another one of the little agendas against the BBC that has been spiced up by the media,” he said of the rules. However, he added: “If people have to know how much I earn, then people have to know.”Insisting that the UK didn’t celebrate the BBC enough, and that the corporation was under attack by a hostile media, he said the fact the licence fee was compulsory and paid by the everyone in the UK meant life was far more difficult for the corporation and those working for it.“It’s the one downside of working for the BBC is that the money comes from the licence fee. If it’s Ant and Dec, no one cares ... they earn vastly more than anyone at the BBC.”“It’s kind of the bugbear. It’s the thing you have to put up with. Perhaps it would be better if they put [the TV licence] up a bit and made it a choice.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gary Lineker presents Match of the Day in his underwear. Photograph: Guy Levy/BBC/PALineker also said he wouldn’t want to repeat his appearance on Match of the Day in his underwear after promising to do so if Leicester City won the Premier League.“It was fairly cringeworthy experience. I wouldn’t like to do again,” he said. “I did a stupid tweet which seemed safe at the time. I categorically knew at the time there was zero chance of Leicester winning. It went on to be quite possibly the biggest team sporting miracle of my lifetime.”He added that he was talking to Twitter about dealing with the huge number of people who respond to each of his tweets with references to to an incident in which he “shat himself” during a game at the 1990 World Cup.“Twitter have just been in touch and might be able to help me on it,” he said. “It’s just evolved into this mad thing. I treat it as banter. I play on it myself occasionally, but it is quite difficult now responding to tweets.”“I don’t look at general notifications now. It’s a shame for the ones that make a serious point.”