There’s a new television mini-series of Anne of Green Gables in the works, and last week Netflix released a teaser – a few seconds of footage in which it was impossible to determine anything much beyond the inevitable red hair of the star, Amybeth McNulty. At 15, she also looks nearer the age – 13– of the original LM Montgomery heroine than the 17-year-old who played her in the 1985 mini-series.Jonathan Crombie is dead, but Gilbert Blythe will live on for ever | Hadley Freeman It is hard to say, now, why that 30-year-old production, broadcast by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation and sold around the world, became talismanic for so many of us who saw it as children. But it did. It was beautifully made and faithful to the books. The score was sweeping.The performances of the leads – Megan Follows as Anne, Colleen Dewhurst as Marilla and Richard Farnsworth as Matthew – were of a quality that is commonplace on TV now but then seemed almost shockingly good. When Matthew drops to one knee and dies in the field, it was the first time I sobbed in front of the TV at something other than The Fox and the Hound.But perhaps the main thing about the show was that, as with the 1908 book, the heroine was a child but it wasn’t marketed for children. The book opens: “Mrs Rachel Lynde lived just where the Avonlea main road dipped down into a little hollow, fringed with alders and ladies’ eardrops and traversed by a brook” – and goes on for another seven lines, ending “thereof”. I have a clear memory of reading this as an eight-year-old and being amazed at what was asked of me. Somehow I struggled through it, then read the next one and the one after that.The show had its flaws. The girl who played Diana, Anne’s best friend, looked about 30, and was – I hesitate to say this, but the book is quite specific on this point – not pretty enough. Gilbert divided opinion. I didn’t like him; he seemed to me too moony and ineffectual. But when Jonathan Crombie, the actor who played him, died two years ago, one could only look back in tenderness. At 48 he was too young to die, and too old to be the boy we remembered.Like any remake, the new production is subject to a lot of knee-jerk what’s the pointism, but I guess we have to give it a go. Its pedigree is good: another CBC production and written by Moira Walley-Beckett, who worked on Breaking Bad. But it faces an impossible task – trying to unseat nostalgia for a show that is nostalgic for a book itself based on nostalgia.Straw Dogs in the sand I ran into an old friend at the weekend. Mr Steve, a toddler gym instructor, hasn’t taken my kids’ class for a while, but there he was in reception. “How are you?!” I said wildly. For four months I saw Mr Steve every week, and he never once broke out of his children’s entertainer persona.He looked at me blankly, as if to say, come on, I think we both know the “you” in that sentence isn’t an entity on which either of us can rely. Then he turned to my children and made the sound of a train coming out of a tunnel. He’s beyond method, but I have to hand it to him: three days later, one of them is still saying “Steve” and chuckling, as if ruminating on fond memories of old times.Sandcastles in the air There is snow on the ground in New York so, after the gym, we skipped the park and hauled ourselves 20 blocks north to another indoor play area. It’s 2,000 square feet of space that’s quiet at 10am and by noon is like a scene from Straw Dogs, every parent wearing a commando pack filled with snacks and trying to crawl into spaces not intended for adults.To wit: I stood at the sand station, where, rather than watching their children play at a distance, most parents wedged themselves in to micro-manage the bucket-and-spade-work. At some point the children inevitability grew bored and wandered off, leaving 15 adults, heads bowed and in the spirit of the times, earnestly playing with sand.