It was 1962 when the writer William Burroughs dropped in on Liliane Lijn’s first art exhibition at the English Bookshop in Paris. Her experimental work appealed to Burroughs. Lijn had delved into scientific research to make lenses that, combined with thick blocks of Perspex, refracted and reflected light in new ways. She constructed kinetic pieces she called Poem Machines, with titles such as Fidel Prism and Time Forces Split, that span words at high speed until they blurred and vibrated. Burroughs left a message inviting Lijn to visit him at the Beat Hotel.“I spent some hours talking with him. He was very convivial and courteous,” says Lijn. “I wouldn’t say he was warm, but he was very thoughtful – about my work and about me as a young person who shouldn’t get too close to drugs. He warned me about drugs.” Now in her 70s, with auburn hair, silver trainers and an eye-catching arrangement of gold and silver jewellery, Lijn inhabits a vast studio near London’s Finsbury Park, scattered with five decades worth of work.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Get Rid of Government Time (1962) by Liliane Lijn. Photograph: Isa Harsin/Sipa/Rex ShutterstockA glass table is arranged with striped cones – or koans, intended for Buddhist meditation – all made from different materials and to varying scales. A huge sculpture with a plastic base, red and green bristled torso, and topped off with a horned “head” stands like some futuristic beast in the main studio. It’s titled The Lady of the Wild Things. A print on the wall shows a grid with the word “she” in nine different languages, all of which contain the masculine pronoun “he” inside the feminine one.Lijn pulls out a box filled with word cards, which make up Power Game, a casino-style word game she devised in 1974 at the Royal College of Art, as a response to Pinochet’s coup in Chile. Intended as a farce about power and dictatorship, it became a farce about democracy. Film-maker Derek Jarman was among the original players. Guests were invited to dress in ways that reflected power; Jarman appeared as a Hollywood director in a white suit.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Power Game, a live, unrehearsed performance that uses gambling as a lens on identity and power. Photograph: Liliane LijnThe game is played loosely along the lines of chemin de fer (James Bond’s favourite game). Bets are placed; players argue, in a short sentence, for the power of a word they have chosen – “sky” against “black”, for example; and the remaining players vote for which word, or player, wins. Lijn points out that it’s usually obvious who argued more powerfully, though the alchemy lies in the relationship between word and player. A weak player can weaken their chosen word, and vice versa.“Power Game is highly political,” says Lijn. “People have to actually think about what they mean, what they believe and then defend it against somebody else, and what they believe, instead of talking about your belief in the system or larger concepts.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The ‘Bag Madonna’ dress designed by Liliane Lijn in 1999. Photograph: Frank Baron for the GuardianFrom the beginning, Lijn’s work was about more than art. Soon after moving to London from Paris in 1966, she started making multiple editions titled Bubble Towers, like sophisticated and subtle lava lamps. The plan was to make art affordable. “We were idealistic,” she says. “We believed with this work we were going to go beyond the limits of the art market. There’s a misconception that the 60s was all about grooving, dropping acid and smoking pot. In fact, it was quite political.” Unfortunately, the government slapped a 50% luxury tax on Lijn’s series, which killed it after three months. She also sees her survival also as a political act. “For young women artists, it was very difficult,” she says. “It was an atmosphere in which you were not considered a professional or an artist. You were not taken seriously, you were seen as sex. That’s how I felt. But there were some serious people with whom one could have a serious conversation. And I did have many of those.”Power Game is at Southbank Centre, London, on 25 June. Moonmeme is at Barnaby festival, Macclesfield, until 26 June. Beat Generation, featuring Lijn’s poem machines, will be at Centre Pompidou, Paris, until 3 October.