What would it look like if you tried to compress the English countryside into a 6,000 sq m metropolitan plot? Well, the wildlife garden at the Natural History Museum is as close to achieving the experience as is possible. A short perambulation takes you on a wildlife journey that would otherwise take days of travelling.An exuberance of life on the undrained fen Mounds of sandy soil on the sunlit edge are bedecked with purple flowering heathers, a mini Dorset heathland experience. This fades into the Cambridgeshire fens – reeds and swamp, including marsh sow-thistles, although less than two metres tall, much less exuberant than the towering plants I reported from Woodwalton Fen last month. Ten paces on and I am in a Wye valley woodland with pedunculate oak, holly, hazel, mountain ash and other native trees. Under a rotting log, nestled next to a frog, is a large curled white grub with a pale tawny head, big and shiny, and gangly legs; probably a lesser stag beetle, but the full stag beetle also lives here. Finally, I pass through a Sussex chalk grassland with accompanying fences, hedges, ponds and dancing common darter dragonflies.The garden is slightly below street level, which adds to the sense of secrecy; glimpses of traffic and grand embassies through screening shrubs only serve to emphasise the dissonance between urban life and the tranquillity of nature. When the garden opened in 1995, John Gummer, the then environment secretary, held it up as “a symbol of what can be done to help and protect our wildlife, even in a small and crowded area in the centre of London … raising public awareness in conserving wildlife”. This aim has been achieved, more than 2,800 species have now been recorded in the garden, including many rare and scarce animals and plants, some of which are not otherwise found in London. The oasis is visited by 38,000 people every year, but get your visit in soon. Controversial plans to reformat the garden have received planning permission, and those who best know and most love the garden believe the scheme will seriously damage its wildlife quality. Follow Country Diary on Twitter: @gdncountrydiary