In this new series, anonymous writers share the most painful moment of their marriage: the moment they knew their relationship was overWe were paired by her best friend. I was exceedingly naive, and though no virgin, was blindsided by my first taste of serial sex. We lived together for a year while I completed a bachelor’s degree in 20th century drama and she worked as a legal secretary. She had tried university herself for a semester at the urging of girlfriends but quickly discovered that further time in a classroom held no interest. She was the pampered daughter of divorced parents. She had a fancy new car and liked to party. I, on the other hand, was tenuously holding the military draft at bay by maintaining a student deferment in grad school during the day. Nights I tended bar for food and rent money.To simplify practical matters of daily life, we decided to marry. It had to be in a Catholic church, even though she was not Catholic and I could barely comprehend religion. She wanted “ceremony”, so we had that, with classical musician friends accompanying the mass, and a loud organ soundtrack. We invited no actual family to attend.There was a brief and anticlimactic post-nuptial party in the kitchen of the apartment we shared with another couple, and emphasizing the importance of the event, the next morning the bride flew off northwards for a one-day visit with her mother.I went to a Jimi Hendrix concert with my buddy Red. She arrived back the afternoon of the very next day, 48 hours after we were married, to the telephone ringing. Her mother had died of an overdose, on pills that her daughter had just presented as a gift. Our marriage was over the moment she hung up the phone.•••I had not paid attention to what was happening around me. I knew my partner had been prescribed daily amphetamine capsules by her doctor to “help her lose weight”. But I did not realize that she was also dosing herself with the barbiturate Seconal to help her sleep every night. Her doctor was also willing to give her multiple simultaneous prescriptions, and beneath my radar she had become something of a distributor. I can only excuse myself by whining that I was in grad school, worrying about a looming term of imprisonment in the army, and wearing blinders as only an overly self-centered and self-confident fool can. I had no idea I was living with a completely out-of-control drug dealer.I stayed at her side to support her through the funeral, but when we got back to the apartment, I gathered a single small bag of clothing, stuck out my thumb, and bummed a ride westward. I moved into a different university community and quickly re-enrolled in graduate school but had drawn an incredibly low draft number. My academic career was terminated by the government.I was finally and forcibly conscripted as a draftee into the US army, sent overseas, served my time as a clerk, and was not killed. When I returned stateside, I almost wished I had been. Credit cards in my name had been issued and maxed out by my still-legal spouse, and subsequently creditors had been hounding my parents for money. The spouse had disappeared upon my arrival. It took two years to pay off my ex’s debts. Three years later I was brought from a deep sleep at daybreak on my birthday by insistent banging on my door. The gentleman saw the look on my face and smiled. He was a paid courier and held out a paper packet, legally serving me with what unfolded to be a divorce decree. And then he handed me an accompanying fifth of bourbon. Birthday present from the divorcee. The termination was official. As I had a sunrise pull from my liquid gift, I speculated that the woman had really found a change in heart, that maybe she was not as terminally corrupt as I had thought. A day later, I found out that her father had died and left her a vast amount of money, land and valuable investments. The first thing she had used the cash for was to hire a lawyer and legally get rid of me, so I would have no claim on her new wealth.I didn’t care about the marriage, or its end. But the bourbon came in handy.