Environment question time is often the most depressing session of the month. Our once green and pleasant land is covered with a horrid mixture of disease and bureaucracy, to say nothing of useless wind farms. As I listened, I imagined how it might appear on the TV show Escape to the Country. All references are to Thursday's grim proceedings."Terri and Jason are desperate to get away from life in the busy city! They want to wake up to birdsong instead of sirens, and gaze out at meadows not building sites. And we think we've found the perfect property! It's a four-bedroom thatched cottage, covered in roses, with a lovely secluded garden, fully modernised inside. The price? A very affordable £325,000. Well, Terri, waddya think?""I think I'd like it a lot better if the fields weren't covered in stillborn lambs, with stunted legs twisted under their tiny, woolly bodies.""Sure you would, Terri, but that's the Schmallenberg virus for you! It's spread from the continent, and it's heading west across England, leaving a trail of dead sheep. But the good news is, it's not a notifiable disease yet. Jason, what say you?""I have to admit I was wondering about those big men in black suits with earpieces, standing at the farm gate.""Yup, they're the bouncers, enforcing the electronic identification scheme for sheep, recently negotiated with the European commission! Waste of time if you ask me, as this new virus means that very few sheep are going to reach drinking age anyway.""Why, look, there's a sheep dog! Like Lassie! Isn't he lovely? Why is he staggering round like that?""There you are, Terri, he's a victim of compulsory microchipping for the central register of non-prohibited dogs. I'll bet he'd rather be rounding up sheep, but he can't, because they're all dead!""But there are so many dead animals here. It's, it's, just so awful!""Oh, you'll get used to it. Most of the dead badgers culled in the new anti-bovine-TB programme will be hauled away to the incinerator. But it's a bit like empty burger boxes; there's always a few get left behind!"And those dead hares – well, they were chewed up by greyhounds, after the coalition government got round to repealing the Hunting With Dogs Act. Still, seen one hare, you've seen the lot, eh? Jason?""We thought we'd like to go for a walk in the woods there, but they seem to be surrounded by a high wire fence.""Ah, you see, when the government backed down on sales of public forest land, as the minister said, they 'never did involve total disposal of ... the forestry portfolio.' So the copse is now owned by MagnaCo Inc, and I'm afraid you can't go in. Not without risking electrocution!""Oh dear. Perhaps at least we could visit a lovely country church?""'Fraid not, the bats got in there, and thanks to gold-plating of the Habitats Directive, they can't be touched. They transmit disease through their poo, so the congregation aren't allowed in."At this point Terri and Jason emit awful screams and rush back to the inner city, where it's peaceful and safe. Usually.