In a few weeks’ time world leaders will have the opportunity to usher in a new era of multilateral cooperation on climate change. This starts with the UN climate change conference in Paris, but it does not end there. Building momentum to tackle climate change is a common challenge for us all – individually and institutionally. The broader international community, including the WTO, has to play its part.Like most economic activity, trade is often linked to carbon emissions, but the world cannot stop trading – not least as trade is essential in achieving many other shared goals. Trade can help to improve the efficiency of production, it can improve food security and, above­ all, it has proven to be one of the best anti-­poverty tools in history. Trade played a key role in helping us reach the millennium development goal to cut extreme poverty by half – and it is a cross-­cutting element in many of the new sustainable development goals agreed at the UN in September, so this work will continue.The challenge is not to stop trading but to ensure that trade is an ally in the fight against climate change. We need to create a virtuous circle of trade and environmental policies which promote sustainable production and consumption while being pro­-growth and development.It is just over 20 years since the signing of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in 1992 – and it is exactly 20 years since the WTO was created. The world has witnessed a profound transformation in the debate on trade and the environment since then – and a degree of convergence between the two. While international trade flows have increased dramatically over this period, the green economy has been built into business models and investment in renewable energy has been mainstreamed. Standards and technical regulations, which are so vital for the functioning of markets and trade, have followed suit with strengthened environmental requirements.Ed Miliband urges UK to enshrine zero carbon emissions target in law So how can we ensure that trade policy plays its full part in future? First, we must improve the dissemination of and access to climate­-friendly technologies, goods and services which support the transition towards a low­ carbon economy. In some countries, import tariffs on products such as solar water heaters are over 20%, and wind turbines over 15% –­ much higher than the average tariff of 9%. Making environmental goods and services cheaper and more accessible would help countries to leapfrog outmoded technologies and move quickly to apply climate-­friendly alternatives. A group of WTO members, who account for the majority of global trade in environmental goods, are negotiating an environmental goods agreement to lower their trade barriers on a number of important environmental products. Success here would help to disseminate cutting-­edge technologies, such as those identified by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), at much lower costs while also stimulating innovation and strengthening the green economy around the world. Although these tariff reductions are being taken forward by a group of WTO members, the benefits would apply to the whole WTO membership.Second, we can make trade more efficient overall. Trade is often linked to carbon emissions – particularly through international transportation. Although 80% of trade volume utilises sea transport which has the lowest level of emissions of any form of transport, there is scope to do more. The International Maritime Organisation and the International Civil Aviation Organisation are working to find a global solution to emissions in the maritime and aviation sectors – and we should support these efforts. By streamlining customs processes, we also can reduce some transport emissions and cut the energy required to keep perishable goods fresh while they wait to cross the border. The WTO’s trade facilitation agreement will deliver this while also helping businesses to grow – green businesses included – and reducing trading costs by over 14% on average, and more for the poorest countries. Associated with every environmental good is a dense value chain of other goods and services suppliers. A wind turbine, for instance, consists of more than 8,000 component parts. Cutting the time that it takes to move these parts across borders would lower costs and help make climate ­friendly technologies more available. I hope that green businesses will use this opportunity.The international community is facing a historic test. We must ensure that the trade, development and environmental agendas complement each other. I am optimistic that we will rise to the challenge.Roberto Azevêdo is the director general of the World Trade Organisation