If you have to ask whether you’re going to hell you have already been there, if only on a tourist visa. The only question is whether you will return with a permanent residence obligation. (It’s not a permit, they explain at the immigration tribunal.) In hell the border guards all aim their weapons inwards.No one had to imagine hell at all – there are cultures that have never had the idea - but now it has been invented, it’s almost impossible to abolish. It is one of those ideas, like zero, that make it possible to think more powerfully about the world we live in. Like zero, hell may not exist as a physical object but that doesn’t affect its reality at all.Who is in hell? | The question Hell has been described in all kinds of ways, from the most elaborate to the chillingly simple, but they all have two things in common: pain and justice. This linkage distinguishes it from some other kinds of afterlife. There is no justice in the Greek or Roman underworld. However good or bad anyone was, this is where they end, fading and longing for blood. But in the Christian hell, which is the one that haunts our imagination, everyone is there for a reason, and it is part of their torment that they did not have to be. They might have been in the other place instead.So hell is a condition of justified but unbearable suffering. This makes it complicated. First there is the objection that the kinds of torments inflicted in hell are worse than anyone deserves: if something is unbearable, no one should have to bear it. This is both unanswerable and irrelevant. When you’re there you know that unbearable suffering exists. Whether it should or not is just a stupid question. It’s not even clear that we don’t believe anyone deserves unbearable suffering. What else would best serve Fred West?The next objection is a more subtle one: is it hell if you know why you’re there? If hell exists as a sort of social control, an awful example to everyone outside it – which is certainly one of its functions – justice would seem to demand that the damned understand very well why they have ended up there. That is certainly the case in Dante, and in ordinary human lives the crime and the punishment can be so connected as to seem aspects of the same thing, so that an understanding of what you have done to someone else brings with it its own sentence of remorseful torment.'Hell' is about justice for everyone, for ever | John Richardson But is that really hell? To know that what you’re suffering is deserved would be a kind of consolation, and consolation goes against the spirit of the hell. Besides, if your crime can be specified, then so can the punishment. Greater or lesser crimes will have greater or lesser punishments, and once this idea is admitted, hell becomes purgatory: the pains are the same, but they are limited. True damnation must be eternal, and so the truly damned must never really understand why they are there.So: how to avoid this fate? That rather depends on the kind of god, or the idea of justice, that you believe in. Obviously there are some gods, and some ideas of justice, that condemn all unbelievers to hell, just for being unbelievers. If the universe is really like that it’s not worth worrying about. Hell in that case is only the place depicted in Rowan Atkinson’s marvellous sketch: “Americans, are you here? I’m sorry about this, apparently God had some fracas with your founding fathers and damned the entire race in perpetuity. He sends particular condolences to the Mormons who He realises put in a lot of work.”But if hell is a place you reach through individual efforts, rather than group membership, then it should be possible to avoid the things that lead you there. This, though, is where reliable advice is hard to come by. The Roman Catholic church used to have a beautifully worked out schema where you could hope to know exactly what your chances were of ending up in the right place, but in the past 50 years this has been eaten away by squeamishness and hopes of mercy. Anglicans don’t talk about it much, and for most Pentecostals it appears that hell is somewhere other people go and heaven is somewhere you get to if you just want it enough.Ah, yes, you’ll say: all very well, but is any of it real? Hell doesn’t exist and we don’t survive death, so how can we go there? The best answer was suggested to me by the Catholic philosopher Nicholas Lash. The first point is that of course hell is not part of any objective reality that can be studied by the methods of science. But neither are we who might go there. We are entirely confined within our subjectivities while we’re alive. Even if hell is not real to our instruments, to say that hell is real to us is quite enough. Lash went on to say (and I am paraphrasing) that eternal damnation – or its opposite – would have to be something experienced before we died, perhaps if the immediately preceding moment were spent in hell.This is perhaps why those who kill themselves (at least regretful suicides) may be considered damned. The argument might sound improbable, but it is at least not logically impossible. The only thing that is absolutely impossible is that we should ever experience being dead. The thing about annihilation is that there can be no one there to know it’s happened.In this light, the really interesting question is not whether we will go to hell, since almost any life must contain passages there, but whether we can hope to escape it once we’ve been. And most of the time, most of us – given mercy – can.