Donald Trump has responded on Twitter to Meryl Streep’s Golden Globes speech, calling her an “overrated actress” and a “Hillary flunky”.In her acceptance speech for the Golden Globes Cecil B DeMille lifetime achievement award, Streep said she was “stunned” when Trump appeared to mock a disabled reporter, Serge F Kovaleski, at a press conference.The fightback against Trump starts with Meryl Streep’s Golden Globes speech | Suzanne Moore Trump initially spoke to the New York Times on the phone, deriding Streep as a “Hillary lover” and denying he had mocked Kovaleski. “People keep saying I intended to mock the reporter’s disability, as if Meryl Streep and others could read my mind, and I did no such thing.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Donald Trump mocks reporter with disabilityThe president-elect followed up with a series of tweets on Monday in which he wrote: “Meryl Streep, one of the most over-rated actresses in Hollywood, doesn’t know me but attacked last night at the Golden Globes. She is a Hillary flunky who lost big. For the 100th time, I never “mocked” a disabled reporter (would never do that) but simply showed him “groveling” when he totally changed a 16 year old story that he had written in order to make me look bad. Just more very dishonest media!”Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump)Meryl Streep, one of the most over-rated actresses in Hollywood, doesn't know me but attacked last night at the Golden Globes. She is a.....January 9, 2017Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump)Hillary flunky who lost big. For the 100th time, I never "mocked" a disabled reporter (would never do that) but simply showed him.......January 9, 2017Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump)"groveling" when he totally changed a 16 year old story that he had written in order to make me look bad. Just more very dishonest media!January 9, 2017Trump’s response was widely anticipated, with comedian Dana Schwartz among those to accurately predict Trump’s choice of words, tweeting several hours beforehand: “Can’t wait for Donald Trump to tweet about how Meryl Streep is overrated.”