Autumn is probably my favourite season. The colours change into dark red, orange, dusty yellow and withered green. The light merges into a warm glow that disappears just a little each day. Days becomes shorter and darker. Produce is plentiful from the late summer harvest and autumn offerings. The change in weather and the light makes us withdraw into our homes, put on layers of clothing and cook food that will warm us. That is quintessential hygge, the Danish expression for a way of living, for a mood of being.Hygge is about creating lasting moments that will make you feel good, a kind of relaxed comfort. Most days will be cold and rough outside and it will often rain a lot so when you return home you will long for something warm and soothing. The season for soup, stews and home-baked bread starts in autumn. Sharing soup and bread is hygge.Fish soup, the classic wayThis recipe recalls a time that no longer exists. In Scandinavia, artists would go to seaside hotels for fresh air and a change of scenery and society. In those times, a fish soup like this would be served. Good fish soup always starts with a stock, which takes a little time to prepare.Serves 6saffron strands ½ tspclams 500g, preferably Venus clamslangoustines 10white fish 400gbutter 2 tspgarlic cloves 3, finely choppedshallot 1, finely choppedleeks 2, thinly slicedcarrot 1, finely dicedceleriac 200g, dicedplain flour 2 tbspdry white wine 200mlhot fish stock 2 litres (see below)double cream 200mlsea salt and ground black pepperdill 50g, choppedFor the fish stock:fish bones 2kggarlic cloves 4onions 2fennel bulb 1leek 1, with green topscarrot 1parsley a few sprigsolive oil 2 tbspbay leaves 3whole black peppercorns 10sea salt 1 tbspFor the fish stock, rinse the fish bones and place them in a stockpot. Roughly chop the garlic, onions, fennel, leek and carrot and add to the bones with parsley sprigs, olive oil, bay leaves, black peppercorns and 3-4 litres of cold water. Bring to the boil, reduce the heat and let it simmer, uncovered, for 2 hours, then strain, discarding the bones and vegetables. Add the salt and season to taste. Use right away or freeze.For the soup, place the saffron in a small bowl, pour over a little boiling water and leave to infuse. Clean the clams by thoroughly scrubbing them under plenty of running water, and discarding any that are broken or don’t close tightly when you tap them. Place the clams in a saucepan, cover and cook for 8 minutes (if they start to dry out, add 50ml water), then set the pan aside, covered.Shell the langoustines and set aside. Cut the white fish into smaller pieces. In a big saucepan, melt the butter then sauté the garlic, shallot, leeks, carrot and celeriac for a few minutes. Add the flour and stir well, then add the white wine and stir well again. Add the stock and saffron with its soaking liquid, and the cream. Bring to the boil, turn down the heat and let it simmer for 5 minutes.Add the clams with a slotted spoon, the langoustine and fish, and simmer for 3–4 minutes more. Season with salt and pepper, and serve sprinkled with the dill, and some bread. Chicken soup with herbs and root vegetablesMy chicken soup is a mix of my Scandinavian heritage and a bit of southern Europe, plus the all-important fresh herbs that we use a lot in cooking.Serves 4dried cannellini beans 200gextra-virgin olive oil 3 tbspgarlic cloves 3, choppedparsnip 300g, finely dicedSavoy cabbage 300g, choppedchervil leaves 6 tbsp, choppedparsley leaves 6 tbsp, choppedsea salt and ground black pepperFor the stock:chicken 1bay leaves 3celery stalks 2carrot 1onion 1, unpeeledgreen chilli 1garlic cloves 4fresh ginger 100gsea salt 20gwhole black peppercorns 1 tbspwater 3 litresSoak the dried beans in cold water overnight. The next day, drain and cook in boiling water for 40 minutes until tender, then drain and set aside.While the beans are cooking, put the chicken and the remaining stock ingredients in a stockpot, bring to the boil then reduce to a simmer, uncovered, for 1 hour. Remove the chicken from the stock and strain the stock. Pour the stock back into the pot and let it simmer until reduced to 2 litres. Heat the olive oil in a big saucepan and sauté the garlic, then add the parsnip, cabbage and beans and sauté for a few minutes. Add the stock and bring to the boil. Skin the chicken and shred the meat off the bones. Save half the meat for another use, then add the other half to the soup, seasoning with salt and pepper. Add the chervil and parsley and let it simmer for 2 minutes before serving.Easy morning spelt rollsThese rolls are really easy to make, and the dough more or less takes care of itself. Spelt contains gluten, but the gluten structures are weaker so spelt bread does not always rise as much. But don’t worry, it still tastes great. I serve these spelt rolls in the morning, or with soup at night.Makes 14fresh yeast 10gcold water 700mlfine spelt flour 400g, plus extra for dustingwholegrain spelt flour 350gspelt flakes 50gsea salt 1 tspDissolve the yeast in the water in a bowl, add both flours, the spelt flakes and the salt, mix well for about 10 minutes, then cover and refrigerate overnight.The next day, preheat the oven to 230C/gas mark 8. Place the dough on a floured work surface and knead lightly. Form into 14 rolls and place on a baking sheet lined with baking parchment. Spray some cold water in the oven to create steam, then bake the rolls for 10 minutes.Now turn down the oven temperature to 200C/gas mark 6 and bake for another 10-15 minutes. Cool on a wire rack before eating.Lemon mousse (citron fromage)Light and creamy with an acidic and fresh flavour, this is a Danish classic and my husband’s absolute favourite pudding, so I make it often. Serves 6-8gelatine 6 sheets, 9g in totaleggs 6, separatedcaster sugar 150gdouble cream 400mllemon juice 150mlgrated zest of unwaxed lemon 1To serve:whipping cream 200ml, whippedunwaxed lemon zest 1 tbsp, juliennedSoak the gelatine in cold water for about 5 minutes. Beat the egg yolks and sugar together with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy.In another clean bowl, whisk the egg whites until fluffy. In a third bowl, whip the cream until light and fluffy. Drain the gelatine and place in a small pan to melt. When melted, take off the heat and add the lemon juice and zest. Slowly add the lemon and gelatine mixture to the egg yolk mixture, carefully stirring all the time. Now fold in the egg whites and the whipped cream.Pour into 6 serving glasses and put the rest of the mixture into a big serving bowl for second helpings. Chill in the fridge for a couple of hours or overnight before serving.Serve with the whipped cream and julienned lemon zest on top. The mousse will keep in the fridge for 3-4 days. Nigel Slater returns in two weeks