A week ago, if someone had told me that in order to keep my local library open I would have to occupy the building for more than a week, I’d have laughed it off and dismissed it as an April Fool’s joke.This, however, is no April Fool’s. I became a library volunteer because this library, as well as all the others in the country, run amazing, professional services in order to help their communities. Libraries are places that welcome people from all walks of life, without judging or prohibiting people from entering because of their individual circumstances.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Library volunteer Demi at the Carnegie library occupation, where she’s been camped out all through the Easter holidays.To me, Carnegie Library means a lot. I’ve been going there for the last five years on a weekly or fortnightly basis to take out books as well as use their other services. Not once has anyone had to complain, because Carnegie runs a Rolls-Royce service which can’t be described by words. The team of librarians are the absolute best. They are warm and helpful and are always doing the maximum they can to cater for the needs of the community. It’s proposed that the library building will become a gym instead. But no gym or any other facility could ever replace the wonderful Carnegie library, so we have to keep it open. We, as the people of Lambeth, will continue to occupy the building for as long as we need to because this library has to stay open to continue serving the community.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Site member The Vampire’s Assistant (AKA George) travelled 50 miles to deliver a letter to the Carnegie occupation. This is what he said!We deserve justice and we will not leave these premises until we are heard loudly and clearly by the council and they agree that they are going to keep the wonderful Carnegie Library open. Please support us to defy these horrible, unnecessary cuts which will destroy the core of the community.How libraries brought out my inner book geek You can support the Carnegie Library occupation by joining their march this Saturday 9 April 2016, starting 11.30am outside the Carnegie Library, 188 Herne Hill Road, London, SE24 0AG. More updates are available at #defendtheten and on their website. 