Right, OK, yes, look. I have reviewed the trailer for Fifty Shades Darker, the partially awaited sequel to Fifty Shades of Grey, once already. And now I’m going to review it again. But that’s because a new trailer has been released. And this one is quite a departure from the first one because it includes a song by Zayn from One Direction and Taylor Swift instead of that version of Crazy in Love that sounds as if Beyoncé is singing it through a heavy cold. That’s enough to warrant another review, isn’t it?Part one: the reconciliation      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The trailer opens with the story of how Anastasia Steele and Christian Grey got back together. First he bought her flowers, then he invited her to dinner. But this is a new Anastasia. Now she is her own woman. So she agrees to go to dinner with Christian, but only because she says she’s hungry. Then she pays the dinner bill, even though the restaurant only serves tea and the only other customers are women in silly hats. Then, finally, she beats him at pool. Does her new tactic of weak-kneed almost-dominance work?Well, she ends up getting touched up in a lift, so let’s say yes.Part two: the mystery      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It’s all going well for Anastasia and Christian. They’re back doing Anastasia and Christian things, like staring mournfully through sheets of glass and dry-humping in showers and … wait, did you see that? That girl! She’s … oh, no, wait, she’s gone. OH GOD THERE SHE IS AGAIN! WHO COULD SHE POSSIBL … oh, hang on, it’s OK, she’s gone again. Now, I haven’t seen the finished film, but I hope this woman pops up in a different place and then disappears over and over again for about 45 minutes. That’d be fun, wouldn’t it. It’d be like panto.Part three: the mystery deepens      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This mysterious woman appears to be a figure from Christian’s past. She could even be an Anastasia prototype, used and abused and flung to one side when Christian grew bored of her. If that’s the case, she might be out for revenge, because she’s Tipp-Exed some of his car. Meanwhile, Anastasia has her own issues. A man finds her to tell her how controlling and abusive Christian is. I mean, sure, he’s decided to tell her this by pinning her against a wall, looming over her and shouting in her face, which sort of negates his message. But, yes, sure, Christian is the controlling and abusive one.Part four: the motto      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Because this film has the word darker in the title, you see. And after all, Fifty Shades of Grey really was a fairytale. Admittedly, it was the sort of fairytale in which the princess has no discernible personality of any description, and the happy ending involves her getting repeatedly hit with a belt. But fine, it’s a fairytale.Part five: the helicopter crashA helicopter crashes in this film. That’s about it.Part six: the dramatic conclusionLook, it’s the girl who kept vanishing from earlier in the trailer. And now she’s got a gun. Hey, young lady, shoot me first so I don’t have to keep reviewing trailers for this film! Please!