The love story of Victoria and Jonathan O’Brien caught the world’s attention this week. The pair met after Victoria serendipitously chanced upon Jonathan’s tweets (he was managing a Waterstones Twitter account) and fell for him. She was dared by a friend to get a date with him – and the rest is history.We asked you to tell us if you met your partner in a weird and wonderful way. Here are three tales of unexpected love, when a chance encounter led to romance.Elena, 72, London: ‘We may never have found each other if I hadn’t moved tables’My love story begins in March 2011 when I was 67. I was in the library flicking through a few books when a librarian asked me if I would move to another table to make room for a children’s programme. I saw an empty seat by a gentleman and asked him if I could sit there. He said yes, and we started talking about anthropology and the various marriage practices around the world. It’s hard to remember exactly what was said, but I vaguely recollect there being a book that we were looking at. On first impressions he seemed nice, and intelligent. The thought that there might be something romantic between us never crossed my mind. It was only when I saw him again that I realised the connection.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A meeting of minds: ‘He had just taken out one of Simon Schama’s books and I told him I was reading a novel by Ian McEwan.’Two days later we bumped into each other on the street, near the library. He had just taken out one of Simon Schama’s books and I told him I was reading a novel by Ian McEwan. That’s when he asked me to go to dinner with him. I was going away for a few weeks, so he said he would be in touch when I returned.When I got back we ended up having coffee instead and got on well. I had ordered a new computer and he insisted on carrying it home for me. I invited him in and he helped set it up. We carried on dating and the rest is history.The relationship works because he is considerate and helpful. He’s also well read, though not academic, and we always have a lot to talk about. I had been married for 30 years and widowed for 12, but I wasn’t looking for a relationship. He had been divorced for five years. It was a wonderful surprise to meet each other. He is so different from my former husband, who was also very intelligent and a good man, but grouchy most of the time. It’s a great pleasure to have such a relaxed and pleasant relationship – and it’s incredible to think we may never have found each other if I hadn’t moved tables.Tim Quinn, 55, Plymouth: ‘After we met I got offered a job where she lived’I met Erica in a bar in Plymouth in 2001. I was 41 and had just returned to normal life after having spent 18 months as an inpatient on a surgical ward. I had had about six major operations on my abdomen and, at last, I was back in the real world.We hit it off straight away and spent hours just chatting. I can’t recall precisely what we talked about, but I left very impressed by that fact she didn’t watch TV and was a vegetarian. She was very beautiful, with long blonde hair and big blue eyes – her warm nature just shone through.We exchanged numbers and promised to keep in touch. The problem was I lived 200 miles away in London and was due to return the next day. I was full of mixed emotions during the trip back – I had met someone amazing but didn’t know how to take it further.I was working as a locum solicitor at the time doing short-term contracts. When I got back to London, about two weeks after meeting Erica, I had a call from my agency. They had a new vacancy, somewhere they had never placed a candidate before: Plymouth.She was the only factor in me moving. All my friends and family were based in or around London, but when I heard about the opening I didn’t hesitate to take it.I didn’t see Erica again for another month after this. She had been on holiday with her sister, so when we caught up in Plymouth I was a bit worried that I might not recognise her. So before she picked me up at the station, I asked her what type of car she was driving. She just said “blue”, which might not seem much, but sums up just about everything I love about her.I initially stayed in a local B&B and we started dating each other. On our first date we went to Totnes, a market town in Devon. I was quite nervous and had to pluck up the courage to hold Erica’s hand as we went through the high street, but everything was fine. We lived separately for about two years. I had been married before and it had gone downhill almost immediately, so I didn’t want to make the same mistake again. We spent time getting to know each other.We married in 2006 and now live in a little village on the outskirts of Plymouth with chickens, dogs and cats.Omaira Gill, 34, Athens: ‘Fate intervened and brought us together’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Nothing happened between us while I was in Athens. It was after I returned that he called me every day for a few minutes.’In late 2003 I applied to be a volunteer at the 2004 Olympics in Athens. I had been living in the UK, so went over for the job. I was placed in the shooting centre, even though I had applied for the media village. However, this turned out to be a stroke of luck because it led to me meeting my future husband, Dimitris. He was the overall supervisor of the venue.Our first meeting was a bit of a disaster. I had taken the train rather than the bus, which got me to my first training day about an hour late. I was introduced to Dimitris, who was sitting at a table with the other volunteers having lunch.Later that day, he invited all his volunteers on a tour of downtown Athens. We all assembled at the fountain in Syntagma square. When I saw him again, I realised there was something between us. I was quite shy around men, which meant I sometimes appeared aloof or rude. That night, we were all talking about our lives, and Dimitris was so refreshingly forthright. I was enthralled. He was so comfortable in his own skin, and I really admired that, because I wasn’t back then. I glumly returned to the UK after my volunteering stint.Dimitris and I stayed in touch, and over the weeks, once the Olympics were finished, we spent more time talking online.Nothing happened between us while I was in Athens, but after I returned he called me every day; and when I chatted to the friends I’d made at the Olympics, it turned out he wasn’t calling anyone else. One day he was really quiet over messenger so I said I’d chat later if he was too busy – and he told me that he was missing me. He called me then, and we declared our feelings for one another. That’s when we decided to try and make a relationship work. We got together as a couple from a distance, and then Dimitris came to visit me that September and we decided to make a go of it, thinking that one of us would eventually move for the other. Since he had no interest in moving to the UK, it was me who ended up in Greece.We got married, and we now have two kids. He later told me that when he was compiling his volunteer list for the venue, he stole volunteers from other venue lists since so few people had applied to volunteer at the shooting centre. My name was lifted from another stadium, which is where I was destined to go if fate hadn’t intervened. Some names have been changed.