The morning after the EU referendum, I sat in front of the TV in tears. But it wasn’t the news I was watching. Instead, I was glued to a 25-year-old episode of Star Trek: The Next Generation. If you’ve watched Next Gen, you might remember the story of Darmok. Captain Picard (Patrick Stewart) gets stranded on planet El-Adrel IV with the commander of an alien starship – a Tamarian, with whom he is unable to communicate. Before long, a giant electrified creature attacks. Together, the captains fight it off. In between bouts, they sit around the campfire and act out ancient stories from their respective cultures – in Picard’s case, the epic of Gilgamesh. When the Tamarian captain is killed, Picard realises he deliberately arranged the deadly encounter, risking their lives so they would be forced to cooperate. By this point, he has absorbed just enough of the alien captain’s language to tell his shipmates that his death was not in vain. In many ways, Darmok is the quintessential Star Trek episode: it’s about cooperation, cross-cultural understanding and it embodies the utopian ethos that has always been at the heart of this seemingly bottomless franchise.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A seemingly bottomless franchise … Spock, Kirk and Scotty back in 1966. Photograph: Allstar/Cinetext/PARAMOUNTStar Trek turns 50 this week. Although I’m too young to remember the first ever episode from 1966, the show has been part of my life for decades. And after channel-hopping from depressing Brexit analysis to a story about a man willing to die just to open up a dialogue with a neighbouring culture, I realised how much the Star Trek message had shaped my expectations of the world – and how spectacularly Britain’s leaders had failed to live up to the enlightened starship captains of the future. Perhaps I took it particularly hard because I, too, was on a voyage of discovery. On New Year’s Day, I made a rash resolution: by the end of 2016, I would watch every single Star Trek episode and film broadcast in the last half-century. By June, I was at the midway point, feeling distinctly lost in space.I became a card-carrying Trekkie in the 90s, when glandular fever laid me up in bed for several months. Too exhausted to read, I spent my afternoons ploughing through VHS tapes from the local Blockbuster Video. By the time I returned to school, I’d devoured every Next Gen episode on Blockbuster’s shelves. I’d seen Picard struggle to regain his humanity after being assimilated into the bio-mechanical Borg Collective. I’d watched the android Data learn to paint, laugh and even dream. And I’d begun dipping my toes into the 1960s original series with Captain Kirk, Mr Spock and Dr McCoy. I even attended my first Star Trek convention, though I didn’t quite have the guts to dress up.The mid-90s was a great time to be a Star Trek fan. There were two spin-off series, Deep Space Nine and Voyager, running simultaneously, and a new Next Gen movie every couple of years. The Franchise was firing on all cylinders. It’s referred to by Trek-sperts as the golden age of Star Trek, and I was fully engaged: when I was 16, my English-professor mother and I wrote a book about the influence of nautical literature on Star Trek, from Joseph Conrad to CS Forester. (In 1964, Star Trek was originally pitched as “Hornblower in Space”.) But eventually my passion started to fade – and I wasn’t alone. Viewing figures fell from 11.5 million an episode in Next Gen’s heyday to just over five million by Voyager’s final season. Star Trek’s producers cited “franchise fatigue”: launching two spin-off series had, they admitted, diluted their product.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Next Gen … the Star Trek heyday. Photograph: Cine Text/Sportsphoto Ltd./AllstarI can pinpoint the exact moment my own enthusiasm started to wane. It was a throwaway visual gag in the 1998 film Insurrection, in which Commander Riker demands a “manual steering column” for his 3m-tonne starship and is presented with a video-gamer’s joystick. Instead of laughing, I cringed – then tuned out. It wasn’t until my son was born last summer that I started getting back in touch with my inner Trekkie. For months, the only way he would sleep was cradled against someone’s chest, which meant plenty of long nights on the sofa. Rather than tackling The Wire (too much) or Mad Men (too soporific), I found myself reaching for the cosy familiarity of Next Gen.Even as a lapsed Trekkie, I was aware of the negative consensus on early Next Gen episodes. The series is considered to have only found its feet once Star Trek’s original creator, Gene Roddenberry, began to loosen his grip on the reins. But my sleep-deprived brain found genuine enjoyment there. Dated and clunky these 1980s relics might have been, but they had twists and turns I barely remembered, from the nail-biting activation of the Enterprise’s self-destruct system to the gruesome ending of Conspiracy, in which a hideous parasite bursts, Alien-style, from the chest of a Starfleet officer.Like many New Year’s resolutions, it was easier said than done. Over 50 years, Star Trek has amassed more than 700 episodes – not to mention a dozen feature films and an entire cartoon series. Getting through it all means an average of two instalments per day: the binge watch to end all binge watches. Fortunately, thanks to the Netflix app on my iPad – or PADD, to fellow Trekkies – I can Trek while cooking dinner or working out at the gym.  I decided to go in “stardate order”, starting with the prequel series Enterprise and finishing up with Voyager (thus splitting Star Trek’s two weakest iterations rather than stacking them at the end). Flushed with New Year fervour, I sailed through Enterprise’s 98 episodes. The characters may be bland, but there were some chilling moments, especially in the show’s 9/11-inflected third season, in which the captain resorts to torture, piracy and cold-blooded murder to prevent an alien attack on Earth.Next up was the original 1960s Star Trek. Despite its fame, I realised I knew only short clips from many episodes. Sure, I’d seen the famous interracial kiss between Kirk and Uhura, but never the full episode in which it occurs: a seriously odd instalment called Plato’s Stepchildren in which William Shatner crawls around on the floor impersonating a horse.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The kiss … Nichelle Nichols and William Shatner as Uhura and Kirk. Photograph: Moviestore CollectionAs an adult, I could see past the things that once put me off: the dubious special effects, exaggerated makeup and occasionally histrionic acting. What I found was a show that had lost none of its moral force, showing us the humanity of our deadliest enemies – such as the Romulan commander in Balance of Terror – and teaching us to embrace the alien, in the form of the rock-guzzling Horta, in Devil in the Dark. Then I fell in love with the 1970s cartoon series. Despite wonky animation and trippy colours, these 22 bitesize Treks pushed the boundaries with stories about a species of mer-people and a universe where time runs backwards. Perhaps most impressively, the cartoons allowed Uhura, a black woman, to command the Enterprise when Captain Kirk was indisposed.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Wonky animation and trippy colours … the 70s animated Star Trek. Photograph: Everett/REX/ShutterstockIt was May before I finally reached “my” Star Trek – Next Gen, Deep Space Nine and Voyager. Rewatching The Wounded, I felt like I had been beamed back to my teenage bedroom – only now I could appreciate the episode as a powerful meditation on PTSD. Now, 300 hours in, I’m well into Voyager, two-thirds of the way through my voyage. So what have I learned? Well, that the show’s landmark episodes mostly stand up well: The City on the Edge of Forever (in which Kirk’s 1930s girlfriend must die or the Allies will lose the second world war) or The Measure of a Man (a tribunal on android rights, with reference to the abolition of slavery) are justly hailed as classics.Increasingly, though, I find myself wanting to skip those well-worn instalments in favour of less celebrated offerings: gems such as Contagion (a computer virus almost destroys the Enterprise) and Return to Tomorrow (in which Spock is possessed by an evil disembodied consciousness). Not to mention the hundreds of lesser episodes that, while not the best of Trek, embody its core qualities – stories of good people clinging on to their shared humanity in the dark void of space.In recent years, the only new Star Trek has been on the silver screen, courtesy of JJ Abrams’s blockbuster reimagining that is heavier on action and lighter on philosophical dilemmas than any Trek before it. Next year, a brand-new Star Trek TV series, Discovery, will debut – the first in more than a decade. That, no doubt, will also alienate some long-time fans in attempting to move with the times.But though Star Trek has maintained its core optimism over half a century, it would never have survived this long without continually reinventing itself – from the 1990s culture of Next Gen, in which the starship has a counsellor on the bridge, to the post-9/11 landscape of Enterprise. The ship has to keep moving forward to beam up new fans. And who knows, perhaps in another 50 years someone else will attempt to watch all 1,374 episodes (or so) back to back – where even an addict like me has not gone before.  Star Trek: The Human Frontier (Second Edition) is published by Routledge.