There is a pair of wooden width restrictors on the road near my flat, around which car parts are littered like snow. On a Monday you’ll find a broken wing mirror, Tuesday a full bumper, Wednesday the entire back seat of a Vauxhall Zafira complete with severed leg of a driver who didn’t have the time to go back for it.I have just turned 36 and still can’t drive, and though I often contemplate learning, it’s these wooden sticks that make me think it’s too late. If only I’d listened to my mum when I was still young and narrow enough.The summer before I went to college, I was at the kitchen table telling my mum about friends’ upcoming gap years, their plans to find themselves and learn how to dig wells in Africa. They’d be better off learning how to wire a plug, she snorted (she’ll prefer “suggested”) or, pointedly, drive a car.She had an idea, right there over our eggs – the alternative gap-year experience. She and a friend would run sessions teaching room painting, chicken roasting, savings accounts, engine maintenance. I rolled my eyes (I’d prefer “engaged thoughtfully”), but lo, it’s happened. In Portland, a teacher and psychotherapist have opened The Adulting School.  Millennials who dabble in adulting find themselves stranded on the hard shoulder of life, wondering how to act their age Adulting. It was nominated as the word of the year by the American Dialect Society, a word coined by a generation that has been shielded from the worst of growing up by living in their parents’ homes, and shut out of the best of it by a society that forces them to stay there. Reminiscent of Alan Partridge’s seminal boast that he’s been “pubic for 31 years”, “adulting”, the verb, is most commonly used to gloat over achievements such as making a dentist appointment, or going to Tesco and buying more than just Frosties.The Adulting School’s first official session took place last week. During their early presentation, on time management, a number of 26-year-old attendees trickled in late. Reports from the summit make it sound not unlike an office party for dogs – participants waggily sniffing each other, being told when and where to sit. They’d been sent by their parents. There were cupcakes in the afternoon.But it’s almost too easy to dismiss them, these young people with their shy arrogance and need for congratulations. Almost too easy to go up very close and look in their spectacled eyes and say: “There are no medals for being a person, child,” or to peruse their hashtags as you wait for your soup to simmer and quickly write off a whole generation Because while their parents had fairly linear paths to adulthood – secure jobs, affordable homes in which to raise children, a pension even, a shed – the millennials who dabble in adulting have no similar scripts to follow, and find themselves stranded on the hard shoulder of life, wondering how to act their age.The answer, according to the Adulting School, is to learn how to set up a savings account, how to turn up on time and how to meditate. As well as my mum’s ideas – including how to make a bed and clean a kitchen – I would add a few more lessons. Mainly because if I helped with the admin, I’d get a free seat.How to stop “awkwardness”, perhaps. Or at least, how to avoid awkwardness defining you. How to mask shyness – this is not appropriate in your 20s. How to risk a relationship, how to commit to the possibility of intimacy and heartbreak. How to break up. How to talk to your parents. How to ask questions. How to read a newspaper. How to deal with death. How to sing in public, and look after a pet, and shrug off all embarrassment about the music you like, the food you eat and the people you fancy.Even if the word itself makes you want to drive a cotton bud into your ear so far you hear the X Factor version of “Hallelujah”, the concept – that appearing to be an adult is a kind of performance, one you can learn – makes a kind of sense. Few of us really grow up – we just get older.Email Eva at e.wiseman@observer.co.uk or follow her on Twitter @EvaWiseman