Julian Barratt, star of Nathan Barley and one half of the Mighty Boosh, is known for playing mopey misanthropes with raging pretentious streaks. These days, though, he is an action hero. He is in an extremely posh hotel in central London to promote his new movie Mindhorn, where, propped up on an easel, there is a large poster of his character doing a high kick against a fiery explosion. But look a little closer, and you can see a pot belly sticking out of Barratt’s camel polo neck, hanging slightly over his grey polyester slacks. This is not your regular action movie. This is Mindhorn: the story of a past-it actor who may just hold the key to a murder. “Mmmhmm,” Barratt, 48, says drily, raising his eyebrows. He is extremely dry. “It feels very … natural.”Mindhorn review – Mighty Boosh creator's funny, farcical nightmare Mindhorn is a very funny, very British film, that skewers old detective shows, modern detective shows, sexist TV tropes of the 1970s and 80s, and the entire business of acting. Barratt co-wrote it with his friend and Boosh co-star Simon Farnaby, and plays its lead, Richard Thorncroft, the one-time star of cult cop series Mindhorn. Thorncroft is struggling to get by even on his former glories, until he is summoned to the Isle of Man, where a delusional killer (Russell Tovey) is on the loose, demanding to speak to the fictional sleuth. Thorncroft sees the potential publicity as an opportunity for a revival in his fortunes, and a farcical whodunnit ensues.“We were drinking buddies at the time,” Barratt says, of his writing partnership with Farnaby, “and we wanted to do something around one of those detective shows, in a way that wasn’t just a parody of it, even though that’s fun to do.” It took them years to get the project off the ground, in part because they were busy doing other stuff, like making hit TV shows and having kids (Barratt has nine-year-old twins with the comedian Julia Davis). Obviously, I have an incredible body usually – I had to do a De Niro in Raging BullJulian Barratt The name Mindhorn came from a song a friend had written, and Barratt and Farnaby entertained themselves with what his special ability could be. “Initially, we thought he’d be psychic, that he had a nose that could smell the truth. Then we thought that would be too silly.” They ended up with an eye that could see the truth. “I mean, it still doesn’t make sense,” he laughs. “But it doesn’t need to. It’s supposed to be a bad version of the Six Million Dollar Man, or Knight Rider, that they made off the back of the success of those shows.” Their original pitch document featured pictures of old TV detectives including Bergerac, who appears as an occasional punchline. “That’s part of the landscape of Mindhorn. That’s the section of my brain that’s made of beige leather.”While Farnaby plays Clive - a Dutch, buff, mostly topless, gardening stuntman who revels in Thorncroft’s misfortune - there is a quiet tragedy to Barrett’s ego-driven TV actor, whom he describes variously as “totally venal”, “an idiot with no understanding of himself”, and “not a complete cunt, but redeemable, in some way”. Does it say something that Farnaby wrote himself as an adonis, and Barratt wrote his character as this? “Obviously, I have an incredible body usually, and I had to really do a De Niro in Raging Bull,” he smiles. “It was very difficult to make Simon look good.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Click here to watch the trailer for Mindhorn.A film is a notably different proposition to making a TV show such as the Mighty Boosh, which mostly involved Barratt and his friends being left to their own devices. Barratt says he stays out of the money stuff as much as possible, but he does believe Mindhorn has the potential to be a commercial success. “It’s a mainstream concept in a lot of ways,” he says. “I didn’t think it was as niche as what I’d done before. Even the Boosh, for instance, feels more to me like an in-joke that people can choose to get into. This skewers a certain kind of pomposity, so in that sense, the story felt like it could be popular.”Skewering pomposity comes naturally to Barratt, partly, he says, because he is prone to it himself. “I have the ability to be quite pretentious, which you may have noticed,” he jokes. “I remember films I made at university, which are unbelievably pretentious. Poetry that I’d written that I delivered to camera, against a Venetian blind, strong shadows, looking slightly off-camera.” Black and white? “Black and white. I’ve got that on a tape, which says on it: ‘Don’t ever watch this!!’ with exclamation points.” What were the films about? “Nothing, really. I’m blushing just thinking about them. Oh, dear. I should have known better. I was old enough to know better. That’s the excruciating part.” For now, their contents remain a mystery, but Barratt says he’s thinking about putting on a night with his friends, where each of them show off their “most terrifyingly embarrassing stuff”, so you never know when they might appear. 'With your own writing, you’re trying to get yourself across'Julian Barratt As well as experimenting with spoken word, Barratt, who plays guitar, also had an acid jazz phase. “I was in a band called Groove Solution,” he says. “Because there was a groove crisis, and we solved it.” At this point, a woman sitting nearby interrupts, almost crying with laughter. “I’m sorry,” she says, “but I’ve been trying to work and I just …” She gestures, lost in the notion of a Groove Solution. Barratt leans back: “I had a wah-wah pedal, a crocheted hat and some beads. We had whispered raps. One lyric was: ‘The walls are full of cracks / The cracks are full of strangers’.” Fittingly, the woman and I crack up.Comedy had always been an obsession for Barratt, who remembers driving up to the Edinburgh festival alone at 17, from his home town of Leeds, just to see the US comedian Steven Wright. “I thought I could see how standup worked. I never thought of being an actor - or anything else, really - but I thought: ‘I can see how you get on stage, and tell jokes.’” He tried standup for a while, and performed at open-mic nights, but ultimately it wasn’t for him. “When I met Noel [Fielding], I thought: ‘This is great. We can do it together and have a laugh.’ I much preferred working with people.”In 2016’s startlingly original Channel 4 series Flowers, Barratt made the move to drama (mostly; it’s also soaked in black humour), playing the suicidal father of an eccentric family. He is hopeful that there will be another series, and says the writer, Will Sharpe, is “brilliant. Mostly I’ve generated the stuff I’ve done. Not all of it: working with Chris Morris [on Nathan Barley] was obviously amazing. To be in the hands of someone like that who has such vision. But with your own writing, you’re trying to get yourself across, and it’s rare that something like Flowers comes along.” He says the balance of comedy and tragedy is what draws him in, always. “Even when you’re sending it up, as in Anchorman, there’s always that beat where they’re absolutely pathetic, at a low ebb. Kingpin is another favourite of mine, just plumbing the depths of a character. Withnail and I has a lot of squalid sadness, which I love.”That squalid sadness can be found in most of what Barratt does. He says that Mindhorn was inspired, partly, by Danny McBride’s character in Eastbound & Down, the HBO series about a foul-mouthed former baseball player. “On the surface, he’s despicable, but you also see into his sadness quite a lot,” he says. “You don’t notice it, but that’s what locks you into the character.” While Mindhorn’s Thorncroft is awful, he’s just pathetic enough to earn a sliver of sympathy, and there is tragedy in the fact that he is so clearly past his prime. “Oh God, yeah,” says Barratt. “As an actor, you’re constantly faced with that. The whole nature of the business is that you’re captured in previous incarnations, basically. Even now, people come up to me, and I can see them going: ‘Oh, he’s from the Boosh.’ And then they get a bit closer, and go …” - he pulls a face that’s half-puzzled, half-repulsed, and affects a stage whisper - “‘You’re a lot older than I remember!’” He laughs: “It’s a nice problem to have, I suppose.”