Mention Louis CK and Kanye West and you probably think of one of the greatest comic minds of his generation and the most famous rapper on the planet (some consider Kanye to be the greatest comic mind of his generation, but that’s another matter).Want to help Louis CK out of debt? Four great reasons to watch Horace and Pete  What you may not immediately associate both gentlemen with, given their successes of the last decade, is penury and bankruptcy. But that does seem to have become their fate. Sort of, anyway: CK recently told radio host Howard Stern that he lost “millions of dollars” from the first season of his uncompromising dramedy Horace and Pete while earlier this year, West announced on Twitter that he was $53m in debt as a result of his forays in the fashion industry.  “Yes I am personally rich and I can buy furs and houses,” he reassured his fans, “but I need access to more money in order to bring more beautiful ideas to the world.” Now, you might argue with West’s contention that his ventures – musical, fashion or otherwise – constitute “beautiful ideas”, but there’s little denying the world would be a poorer place, artistically, without mavericks such as CK and West prepared to risk financial hardship in order to achieve their creative dreams. Meanwhile, they can both take comfort in the knowledge that they’re hardly the first to go out on an economic limb. Fleetwood Mac: Tusk (1979)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Big spenders: Fleetwood Mac. Photograph: Fotos International/Rex Features Fleetwood Mac’s follow-up to the blockbuster Rumours, one of the biggest-selling albums of all time, has for a long time been a synonym for excess and artistic hubris. “Lindsey’s folly”, it has been called, referring to Lindsey Buckingham, who took the opportunity to impose his creative will on the Mac’s latest project. Rumours may have been a cash cow, but Buckingham was no major label shill, so instead of making Rumours 2, he veered towards left field, masterminding this 20-track double LP of experimental textures and half-formed doodles, largely lacking the mellifluous melodicism of yore. It was the most expensive rock album made up to that point, costing a cool $1.4m, some of which went on renovating a Los Angeles studio, some of which didn’t. Various antics, including the consumption of vast quantities of cocaine and demolition of uninsured drummer Mick Fleetwood’s $70,000 sports car on the first night of recording, have entered rock lore. Tusk shifted 4m copies, but after the sales of its predecessor, estimated at 40m, that represents a vertiginous drop down. Still, there’s a happy ending, because Tusk is these days regarded as a classic example of career sabotage and commercial suicide – the kind of “go your own way” exercise that gives music critics the horn and pigheaded artistry a good name. Heaven’s Gate (1980)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A still from Heaven’s Gate. Photograph: Allstar/Cinetext/United Artists For many years, Michael Cimino’s epic western duked it out with 1987 comedy Ishtar for the title of biggest box office bomb. Nowadays, as mitigation, it is customary to remind cinema-goers that Gone With The Wind, The Wizard Of Oz, It’s a Wonderful Life and Citizen Kane were all flops when they came out. Moreover, it is said that seven out of 10 films lose money. But no movie failed on such a massive scale as Heaven’s Gate. Its cost was exorbitant ($44m), its production both tortuous and torturous, and it was considered a bloated travesty on its release. As for Cimino, so disastrous were the results of giving him total freedom, he has been singlehandedly held responsible for killing off freewheeling 70s auteur cinema and ushering in a new era of corporate control. But as with many of these expensive follies, hindsight has been kinder to Heaven’s Gate and it has now assumed an awful grandeur, while Cimino has been afforded heroic status for his obstinacy and singularity of vision. Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark (2011)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   None of the lights: Spider-Man: Turn Off The Dark. Photograph: Jessica Rinaldi/Reuters A stage musical about the comic superhero? With a soundtrack provided by U2’s Bono and The Edge? What could possibly go wrong? As it turns out, everything. The most expensive Broadway production ever, it was beset by technical problems, with potentially fatal consequences. In one incident, a stuntman’s safety harness malfunctioned as he jumped from a platform, plunging 30ft into the orchestra pit as the audience screamed in horror. In another, a dancer suffered broken bones while an actor suffered concussion. Not surprisingly given the colossal disastrousness of the venture and its subsequent critical mauling, the Onion ribbed: “In yet another setback for the $65m Broadway musical – a production plagued by multiple delays, poor early reviews, and severe injuries to its cast and crew – a thermonuclear device detonated during the first act of Tuesday night’s preview performance.” Spider-Man: Turn Off The Dark officially opened on 14 June 2011, and closed on 4 January 2014. The Bionic Woman (2007)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michelle Ryan in The Bionic Woman. Photograph: NBCU photobank/Rex Features The music, movie and theatre industries don’t have a monopoly when it comes to epic fails. Television has its own contribution to make to the pantheon of costly bombs. The Bionic Woman – actor Michelle Ryan, last seen giving it cockney large on Eastenders, rebuilt as Jaime Sommers – to name but one. A 70s reboot that didn’t connect, it reportedly cost about $7.5m just to produce the pilot, while individual episodes came in at around $6m. And there was a budget of over $15m for promotion alone. Bad luck played its part – a strike by the Writers Guild of America forced production to a halt, but after it was over filming never resumed, and the series was cancelled after eight episodes. Tidal (2014)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Usher, Rihanna, Nicki Minaj, Madonna, Deadmau5, Kanye West, Jay Z, and J Cole onstage at the Tidal launch event. Photograph: Jamie McCarthy/Getty Images North America Jay Z’s Tidal – “the first artist-owned streaming service” – initially had the ring of auteurish endeavour about it, one with an altruistic bent, with its talk of combining lossless audio and high-definition music videos with curated editorial. The launch party certainly had the personal touch – only the persons doing the touching were all multimillionaires. The Telegraph christened it, “The most pompous event in the history of music.” It featured the massed ranks of music’s wealthiest and most powerful lined up on a stage, ready to instruct us where to make our payments, including Jack White who helpfully informed stupidkind, “We can really educate people to what kind of digital quality they are actually hearing. The average person on the street has no idea.” Then there was Madonna daringly and ever so rebelliously lifting her leg and plonking it on a table while she inscribed her signature for the sake of art – “human art”, as she helpfully delineated, drawing the distinction between the latter and, presumably, animal or insect art.  For all Jay Z’s caring motives about securing decent rates of remuneration for musicians, something about that event sent out the wrong message, and within 12 months Bloomberg news was reporting that Tidal had less than a million users, compared with Spotify’s 75 million, and was wondering: “Why Jay Z’s Tidal Is a Complete Disaster.”