The sky is as lovely as an illustration in a children’s picture book, pale blue with a big sun, yellow as a buttercup. There is a cobweb-faint breeze. We are approaching the copse, a group of creative writing students and I, a walk in the natural world, material for poetry. The air is alive with spring sounds: bees buzzing, birds singing, a gardener cutting the lawn near the halls of residence. “To look at a thing is very different from seeing a thing,” I quote Oscar Wilde. “What do you mean?” asks Grace. Liz, blue hair and nails, is quick to reply: “When we see, we stop and stare, absorbed.” And they do. Taking time to study the leaf-shaped profile of a brimstone butterfly, wings closed, resting on ivy. Alex points out swallows skimming the grass. Winter in the swinging bog The path is like a finger painting of blossom and curled white feathers, Emme says. And the light falling through the branches is a kaleidoscope of colours. The others agree, making notes of what they see: a haze of bluebells, celandines, pine cones, a squirrel leaping through the branches of an oak tree, even a badger sett.Standing on the bridge, a small group watch the brook tripping and tumbling over glittering black stones, shallow in some places, deeper in others. Then there is a high-pitched, sweet sound, and Callum is pointing towards a pine tree. They look up to see a tiny bird, smaller than a wren: bright-orange head crest flanked by a black edge, olive-green back, buff belly, darkish wings with white bars and a thin beak. Jamie, in a wheelchair, pulls up alongside them: “It’s a goldcrest.” Silently, deeply engrossed, they watch, absorbed in the moment. They take pictures on their smartphones, before moving on, searching for other things to see.I breathe in the scent of fresh, green leaves and the heady odour of wild garlic. And I walk towards a scattering of wood anemones, their heads held high, petals stretched towards the light and warmth, thinking, I am looking forward to sharing the students’ poetry.Follow Country diary on Twitter: @gdncountrydiary