Brief Encounters 9pm, ITVThe 80s-flavoured, knicker-flogging comedy-drama wraps up with Steph (Sophie Rundle) planning a bonanza of an Ann Summers party. With the girls distributing leaflets around town, and Russell the butcher booked to model posing pouches, what could possibly go wrong? Of course, secrets come tumbling out of the closet, including Kieren’s dodgy job and the real identity of Johnny’s father. The ensemble cast, especially Penelope Wilton and Sharon Rooney, are first class. It has been fun. Hannah VerdierEden 9pm, Channel 4There have been rivalries, romances and potato-themed rations aplenty, but there has also been a distinct lack of survivalism so far in this Highlands-set challenge. Where are the Revenant-style bear attacks and – apart from that brief sprinkling of snow – harsh weather conditions? And how come this primitive new tribe have been given half of Homebase to play with? Here’s hoping for less Big Brother and more Bear Grylls as the camp is split. Hannah J DaviesBrexit: The Battle for Britain 9pm, BBC2      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Laura Kuenssberg tells the inside story on the referendum. Photograph: Jeff Overs/BBCMore than a month on, the shockwaves have hardly abated. The nation is reeling – friends and families are locked in civil war, and the architects of leave are either absent or popping up again like some ghastly game of whack-a-mole. BBC political editor Laura Kuenssberg tells the inside story of the dreadful referendum. Elsewhere, Morland Sanders, reporting for Channel 4’s Dispatches strand at 8pm, asks who’s going to take Britain’s low-paid jobs in the absence of cheap European labour. Ali CatterallNaked Attraction10pm, Channel 4The dating show that brings a whole new meaning to the phrase “Let’s take a look at your best bits” continues. Once you get past the privates on parade – despite those cool, colour-coded pods, it’s still a little disconcerting to see so much junk on screen – Naked Attraction’s body-pos attitude is far more gratifying than the usual sub-Blind Date banter. Tonight, a single mum from Bedfordshire and a London sales rep get an eyeful. Graeme VirtueMascara Boys: Sex Me Up10pm, Channel 5An odd title for a level-headed film following men who advocate plastic surgery and spend hours every day on their appearance. Under every mask of foundation is sadness: Bobby has never recovered from a near-fatal homophobic attack; Rodrigo’s surgically crafted Ken-doll look was born of childhood bullying; and even successful Instagram pouter Junaid thinks rhinoplasty might stop unkind comments about his nose. Jack SealeMobsteel 10pm, DiscoveryThe folks of the Mobsteel body shop in Detroit are a gnarly, hirsute, heavily inked, testosterone-filled bunch who take vintage rides originating from Motor City and transform them into dazzling pieces of road-ready machinery. Their trademark is the pimping of the iconic Lincoln Continental. Helmed by Adam Genai and his wife Pam, they’re a dedicated and fiercely passionate bunch, which helps distract slightly from the thoroughly identikit reality format. Ben ArnoldFilm choiceRiver of No Return (Otto Preminger, 1954), 11am, More4Having originally conceived this as a cheapo B-movie, Fox decided to turn it into a big, bold CinemaScope special. It’s also Preminger’s only western – perhaps because making it was a far from enjoyable experience. He and his leading lady, Marilyn Monroe, quickly came to loathe one another, leaving Robert Mitchum as their go-between. Still, the two stars, abandoned in the Canadian Rockies among hostile natives, make it a grand adventure. Paul HowlettOlympic choiceIn the pool, Tom Daley bids for his first medal of the games with his partner Daniel Goodfellow in the synchronised 10-metre platform final (7pm, BBC1). On the pommel horse and more, the men’s team final in gymnastics (8pm, BBC2) is the big event of the day; with any luck, Louis Smith and Team GB will be climbing the podium, as they did to claim bronze at London 2012. On the range, you can also catch the men’s 10-metre air rifle final (4pm, BBC4). Amy Walker