 She went back into the living room, moving quietly, and stood behind [his] chair. She lifted the skillet as high above her head as she was able. She closed her eyes.It’s been more than 30 years since I first read those lines, and the startling act of violence that follows. They still make me gasp. The book was Lois Duncan’s 1979 novel Daughters of Eve, and I’d found the copy, like I found all important things – Flowers in the Attic, Penthouse magazine, a bottle of Southern Comfort – in the bedroom of my best friend’s teenage siblings. Only a few pages into the story of a dangerous high school teacher and her increasingly troubled acolytes, I knew I’d discovered something meaningful and, as it turned out, something that would leave its mark on nearly everything I would write in the decades that followed.On Wednesday, Duncan’s husband Don Arquette announced on his wife’s Facebook page that the beloved author of more than 50 novels had died at age 82. Within seconds, the online tributes began appearing, not just among readers but among writers across genres, which makes sense since Duncan crossed and straddled crime, YA, gothic suspense, supernatural, horror and memoir long before it became “postmodern” to do so. In the hours that followed, it was thrilling to see online conversations ensue as writers spoke with passion and a deep nostalgia about their favorite Duncan novels: the paranormal boarding school tale Down a Dark Hall, the chilling teen thrillers I Know What You Did Last Summer and Killing Mr Griffin, countless others. When readers find you young, and when you seem to speak to them, they remember you forever. Duncan was one of those writers.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Duncan’s husband, Don Arquette, announced her sudden death at the age of 82 on 15 June. Photograph: Chris Pizzello/APCrime novelist Laura Lippman, who interviewed Duncan last year when she received the prestigious Grand Master Award from Mystery Writers of America, recalls how “achingly real” Duncan’s young female protagonists were – the kinds of girls who worry about new bathing suits, argue with their moms and struggle with their science fair projects. “I knew these girls,” she says. “I wanted what they wanted, dreamed their dreams.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The cover of Lois Duncan’s Down A Dark Hall.Duncan’s books reflect a dual awareness that young readers both wish to find characters like themselves but also to venture into dark places, the unknown. Bad things happen in these novels – unwanted pregnancies, abusive fathers, emotionally troubled teens, the deaths of parents and children. “She didn’t shy away from tragedy,” Lippman says. “She didn’t pretend that things could be made right. She respected her readers, knew we were tough enough to accept the consequences.”Although it was years after she began writing her darkest “teen thrillers”, Duncan’s life was in fact touched by deep tragedy: the unsolved murder of her daughter Kait in 1989. Duncan wrote two non-fiction books, Who Killed My Daughter? and One to the Wolves, both wrenching recountings of her efforts to uncover her daughter’s murderer through traditional investigative means as well as journeys into the world of psychics and channeling. Although I had kept track with Duncan’s tireless efforts on her daughter’s behalf, it was not until 2010, coming upon a copy of Daughters of Eve at a library book drive, that I returned to Duncan’s novels. One by one, and with the same breathlessness as the first time, I read all the ones that had meant so much to me as an adolescent. Two loomed especially large: Summer of Fear, about a teenage girl whose mysterious cousin comes to live with her and begins taking over her life, and Stranger With My Face, about a girl whose separated-since-birth twin sister begins appearing in her life, taking on her identity.Returning to these two books almost felt like a haunting. I found myself remembering scene after scene, moment after moment. Intensely scary books, they’d hovered in my unconscious for decades, it seemed, and found their ways, uncannily, into my own novels, many of which feature “likable” female protagonists reckoning with a second woman – a sister, a friend, a rival – who is not likable at all, who looms like a dark, libidinal shadow and does all the things the heroine would like to do but can’t. This, I thought to myself, is the great theme in Duncan’s fiction and I have absorbed it whole.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The cover of Lois Duncan’s Daughters of Eve.In 2011, I had the great fortune to interview Duncan in celebration of Little, Brown’s reissue of so many of her classic novels. I had so many questions to ask her but, as is maybe always the case when we meet our childhood idols, the narcissistic subtext of all of them was, in some ways, how is it you understood me so well?Did she think, I asked, that her books resonated so strongly with young girls because of this strong theme of doubles in her books, of “bad girls” who function as the main character’s id, doing all the things a “good girl” cannot? In response, Duncan told me a story. While in her 40s, she took a college class on juvenile literature under her married name of Lois Arquette. She was stunned to see her fellow students writing papers tracing the role of Greek myths in her own books. “I had never even read those myths!” she said.My guilty pleasure: I Know What You Did Last Summer “Lois was never about being symbolic,” laughs Lizzie Skurnick, who wrote hugely popular appreciations of Duncan’s thrillers for Jezebel.com and reissued two of Duncan’s earlier novels, Debutante Hill and Written in the Stars under her own imprint. “She had a very workmanlike approach.” So it was with great hesitation that Skurnick once showed her a piece she’d written about Duncan’s work for Bookforum. “I was nervous about it,” Skurnick says. “It was lit crit. I wasn’t sure how she’d feel. But she loved it. At the end of the day, I think she loved hearing how we felt about her books.”“Often the reader finds in a book what that reader is looking for,” Duncan told me at the end of our interview, adding, kindly, that the reader who interprets the story is “as important as the person who created it”.A typically generous sentiment from a writer who affected so many of us. The books we find at just the right time in our lives, the ones that speak to us not just on the surface but on the lower registers, they stay with us forever, don’t they? Writers like Duncan seem to know us. She seemed to know me. Knew what I was curious about, afraid of, and hungry for all at once. She gave something to me, made me hold it in my tight closed hand, as if promising me that I would need it later, in life and in art. I would and I did. And I, like all her legions of fans, am so grateful.