Hi Shaky! Should people be surprised that the biggest name in 80s chart-topping rockabilly pop has made an album of socially conscious, dark Americana? (1)People have been surprised. We’ve been playing it to them and not telling them who it is. I’m really pleased with it.Why is it so dark?  I got to a certain age and realised I knew nothing about my family history, ’cos when you’re growing up it’s all hush hush. So I started digging around and it was shocking. One of my ancestors was blown up in the first world war. It took him eight days to die. My grandfather was a copper miner at the age of 10. They’d spend hours on these ladders going down the hole. They were working in prison, no toilets. A lot went on as well, which we won’t go into. Some of them were so tired at the end of the day that they’d fall off the ladders and never wake up. So the stories lent themselves to blues, gospel, Cajun and mandolins.  Mind you, wasn’t the apparently cheery This Ole House (2) based on a similarly grim story? Stuart Hamblen wrote it [in 1954] about coming across the body of a prospector in a deserted shack. True story.     Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Do you think the squillions who bought Green Door had any idea about the persistent urban myth that it was about a lesbian club (3)?I never knew that. Lovely. That’s quite subversive really. Nick Lowe recommended I cover the song after we bumped into him in the pub. I always wondered why he was smiling. You’ve got environmental songs on the new album. Are you a bit of a politico on the sly? There’s that infamous story about you being in the Communist party …In the very early days the guy that got us our gigs was in the Communist party. Or his parents were. So we ended up doing gigs for them. I’m not really political, but I am aware of what’s going on.How did young Michael Barratt, milkman, builder and upholsterer, turn into Shakin’ Stevens?A friend of mine called Steven Vanderwalker used to call himself Shakin’ Steven. I thought: “That’s something you wont forget.” So my band became Shakin’ Stevens and the Sunsets.What was it like doing raw, raucous rock’n’roll in the era of prog rock, punk and disco?The truth behind The Green Door Wild. John Peel came to our gigs. We’d play places like the Hope and Anchor [in north London], turn up in the van, slide the gear down the chute, do the gig, all sweaty, then find a car park to sleep in the van. None of this X Factor nonsense. Your big career break came in the theatre, playing the young Elvis in the West End (4), didn’t it?I was starving. The Sunsets had set. It was time for me to move on. I loved every minute of it. I just took my stage act into Elvis, standing on the back of the seats and stuff. In those days, I’d arrive at gigs, look at the girders and think “I’ll be up there tonight.” It wasn’t unknown for me to walk along the bar, with the microphone stuck down the sax player’s wotsit. How did you come across the song Marie Marie, which was previously released on a tiny indie label, performed by an underground band who played with the likes of Black Flag, X and Fear on the LA punk circuit? The Blasters! I was in America working. We had some time to kill, ended up at this guy’s flat while he played records and that was one. I thought: “That’s a great song. I’ll have that.” The rest is history.And before long you were the biggest selling British singles artist of the 80s. (5)I was a 17-year overnight success really. I think I earned it. Is it a crazy existence when you’re that big? There was that infamous incident when you attacked Richard Madeley on live TV, wasn’t there?I’d been doing endless radio and TV stuff. I’d been there since early in the morning, all the interview questions were really badly researched and I just thought, “This is ludicrous” and leapt on him on the sofa. He was going: “Oh my watch, oh my hair!” On the recording you can hear fellow guests Status Quo going “You’re mad, you are.”  There’s nothing wrong with being mad. I met Richard again years later and he said: “What a prat I was.” When the hits eventually dried up, you made some unlikely records: disco, funk covers and such. I was trying to find my way really. It’s healthy for artists to move on. I didn’t have a manager that would come up with ideas, so I did stuff like [the Detroit Emeralds’] Feel the Need in Me and [the Supremes’] Come See About Me. I wasn’t really happy with a lot of them. The people who signed me at record companies kept leaving. It was like being a footballer when they change the manager.     Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In 2002, you were banned for drink driving and had to attend the Gloucester drink and drug counselling service.I’d been working and staying in this hotel, which was just down the lane. Either the police were waiting or someone told on me. It was two or three minutes’ drive, but the wrong thing to do. Silly. Did the police recognise you?I’m sure they did, but they treated me like anyone else.They didn’t ask you to sing Green Door?Ha. I never thought of doing that, but I was out of it, so I wouldn’t have remembered the words. Was your 2010 heart attack really caused by “strenuous gardening”? I’d been picking up bags of stones. I knew something was wrong. I fell asleep and didn’t wake up. Luckily my partner found me and called the ambulance. If I’d been alone I’d have been a goner. You’re the only person I’ve ever spoken to who’s had their body frozen.  To slow my metabolism. I had an ice hat on, ice under my arms, wires everywhere. But here I am.And looking great. Did the brush with the reaper give you a new sense of urgency?Yeah and I realised you’ve got to look after your body. I’ve been drunk like anyone else. I just woke up one morning and thought: “That’s it, no more drinking.” I just have a glass of wine. Or a couple of glasses of wine. What can people expect on your forthcoming tour (6)?I’d rather bang my head on the ceiling than do those rewind shows, reliving the 80s. I still do the hits – not all of them – but in a different way. There’s a lot more to come out of me. I feel like I’m a skittle. If I’m knocked down, I’ll get up and try again. I don’t want to ever stop. I still really enjoy singing. Now you’re an Americana artist, will you get a check shirt and beard? I never dressed like a teddy boy, and I don’t like shaving but you’ve got to do it. I don’t think a beard and moustache would suit me very much, do you?(1) Echoes of Our Times is released on 16 September.(2) Which spent three weeks at No 1 in 1981.(3) The myth is Bob Davie and Martin Moore’s 1956 song refers to Gateways, London’s first lesbian club, which had a green door. It’s almost certably not true.(4) Elvis! had a two-year run from 1977 to 1979.(5) Shaky has notched up 33 Top 40 hits in the UK.(6) Shakin’ Stevens tours next year. 