Once it was enough to enjoy the circus for its pure physicality: the plate-spinning, the tumblers, the flying trapeze, the stilt walkers. In an attempt to classify, you might call it gymnastics with vaudeville and clowns thrown in, up and over, sometimes with animals too. The idea of it being an art form never occurred even when, in the 1980s, the Canadian company Cirque du Soleil expanded the possibilities of circus and introduced its grand spectacles to ever growing, spellbound audiences.The Brisbane-based company Circa, founded in 2004, has different ideas. An ensemble of some 21 fearless acrobats, using few props apart from ropes and trapezes, this troupe challenges all your preconceptions. In the words of its director, Yaron Lifschitz, “We’re really trying to do two different things. One is to see how far circus can bend as an art form, how far it can cross-pollinate with theatre, dance and music when you stretch it beyond its normal limits. On the other hand, we want to use the physical immediacy and danger and presence of circus to try to reinvigorate other art forms. In our piece called Opus you had maybe two and a half thousand people listening to Shostakovich string quartets…”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Circa’s Opus at the Barbican in 2014. Photograph: Tristram KentonThis was the staging Circa brought to the Barbican in 2014: four string players moved around amid the acrobats, playing Shostakovich from memory with bodies flying around with staggering ingenuity. It followed Circa’s sell-out How Like an Angel (2012). A new show, The Return, based loosely on Monteverdi’s Il Ritorno d’Ulisse in Patria, will have its UK premiere at the Barbican this month. Don’t expect Monteverdi’s opera as you know it. Lifschitz has used only elements of the score, inserted other music and drawn parallels with the Holocaust as witnessed through writings of Primo Levi. For Lifschitz it has involved a long struggle, including completely revamping the show after touring it in Germany in the autumn and deciding he didn’t want merely an opera with acrobats attached.“I have commissioned a team of composers and electronic musicians to treat Monteverdi’s music in a variety of ways,” Lifschitz says. “I was after a much more obsessive, driven dramaturgy – a man is trying to get home, a woman is abandoned. Bodies fly and grab. There are restrictions, things held, smashed against. I don’t want this to be a narrative of inevitability, an ineluctable movement towards a happy reunion – rather it is about people locked in extreme states, holding on, groping blindly towards home. It doesn’t take a genius to see the link between the wanderings, too, of the millions of refugees crossing Europe now.” ‘There’s an old Russian saying that an acrobat who wakes up and doesn’t feel pain is probably dead’ The basis of the show is improvisation, using six acrobats, two singers and four musicians. “It’s like physical jazz. Sometimes it’s very set, especially a particularly complicated move. But these are performers who know each other well, and respond spontaneously. That’s where ensemble counts. The whole thing is porous, rather than strictly choreographed. The acrobats take responsibility, they author it. Sometimes one performer might say he or she doesn’t want to do a particular move that night because they are hurt or tired and don’t feel up to it. Then you have to accommodate that absence, make changes. Spontaneity and adaptability are all part of it. In the same way, acrobats constantly want to do new things, push themselves further.”Watching them hurl their bodies around, it is impossible not to flinch. I had assumed that their physical prowess protected them, for the most part, from injury. Not so. “Things happen. This is a high-risk activity,” Lifschitz admits. “There’s a lot that can go wrong – people are being thrown, climbing up on tall things. There are thousands of moves in a single show. Most go right. Some go wrong. Like sport, some injuries you can deal with, little niggles and muscle aches. Others, like breaks and sprains, put you out of the game.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a trailer for The Return.On the first preview of the current show in Brisbane, one of the six artists fell from a height and landed badly. Lifschitz takes up the story: “We were about a third of the way through the show. He came back and tried to carry on, then realised he’d damaged his wrist so pulled out. We did the rest of the show with five people and worked around his absence. I can’t say it was the smoothest ever preview, but we got through… Whereas ballet tends to conceal effort, we like to show it, in all its rawness.” Having trained at drama school as a director, with wide experience of theatre, Lifschitz himself is a thinker, a reader, decidedly not an acrobat. “Far from it! I’m more concerned with creating algorithms and structures than indicating precise moves. There’s an old Russian saying that an acrobat who wakes up and doesn’t feel pain is probably dead. These are wonderfully gifted, fantastically fit young men and women who basically know that their entire life they’re probably going to wake up in pain, or be unable to fully bend or turn over first thing in the morning. Circa’s work is simple – at its core, it’s the art form of the actual. If the effort and danger isn’t real, it’s fake. Our strength lies in the artists’ commitment and virtuosity in delivering extreme states of emotion with their bodies.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Whereas ballet tends to conceal effort, we like to show it, in all its rawness’: Circa’s The Return. Photograph: © Chris Herzfeld CamlightGiven Lifschitz’s own background – born in South Africa of eastern European heritage but Australian by upbringing, inclination and citizenship – he has grown up with an acute awareness of homeland and exile. He intends his work to reflect the current refugee crisis. “There is no time when refuge has not been a critical human concern. The amazing thing is how easy it is for us, as human beings, to isolate ourselves from the plight of others. Look, I come from a country [Australia] that’s got a world-class reputation for insularity. It’s the ostrich of the international community. To my mind, this primal human experience of being in exile really connects with us all. It struck me that we could do something with the musical dramaturgy of opera. No one is suggesting a circus doing an opera is going to change the world. All we can do is open our hearts, add a dash of humanity. If we manage that, it’s enough.”• Circa’s The Return is at the Barbican, London from 27-31 January