Born in South Yemen, Izzard, 54, began his career as a standup at the Comedy Store in London in 1987; he later also took up acting. He has appeared in the film Valkyrie and the TV series Hannibal; his latest role is in the crime drama, Powers, which is on Spike. He is touring Force Majeure, his comedy show in three languages. In March, he completed 27 marathons in 27 days in South Africa as a tribute to Nelson Mandela. He lives in London.When were you happiest?Living in Bangor, County Down, because my mum was still alive. She died when I was six.What is your greatest fear?Spiders.Which living person do you most admire, and why?Jo Brand. She’s a fighter, she’s successful, she’s a straight talker; she cares about people.What is the trait you most deplore in yourself?Procrastination.What is the trait you most deplore in others?Racism and sexism – hatred based on nothing.What was your most embarrassing moment?Dying on stage in front of a TV audience early in my career. My stuff was too surreal for them.What is your most treasured possession?A watch my mum gave me. It was her last Christmas, in 1967.What do you most dislike about your appearance?There is this bump just below both of my knees that I don’t like.Who would play you in the film of your life?Clint Eastwood.What do you owe your parents?Everything really.What is the worst thing anyone’s said to you?Fifteen or 20 years ago somebody said, “What the fuck is that?” about me at a restaurant. I was wearing makeup. He’s probably dead now. I hope he is.What is your guiltiest pleasure?Milk. I am not supposed to drink it, I think I am allergic.To whom would you most like to say sorry, and why?Nelson Mandela, because I didn’t do enough to stop apartheid. Now I have hopefully made amends.What or who is the greatest love of your life?My mother.What does love feel like?Comforting, like eating Ricicles.What was the best kiss of your life?About my 10th kiss – I had to practise to get the lips in the right order.How do you relax?Watching old movies.How often do you have sex?As much as I can.What is the closest you’ve come to death?I almost set fire to my tent when I was 12. I put the wrong refill in our gas lights.Una Stubbs: ‘Which living person do I most despise? Tony Blair' What single thing would improve the quality of your life?The UK voting for us to stay in Europe on 23 June.What do you consider your greatest achievement?The double marathon on the last day of my 27 marathons in 27 days.What song would you like played at your funeral?Mozart’s clarinet concerto from the Out Of Africa soundtrack.How would you like to be remembered?With a blue plaque.Tell us a secretI am not very good at jokes.