Donald Trump will be inaugurated as president of the United States on Friday and women are preparing to take to the streets of Washington and cities across the globe on Saturday 21 January. In the UK at least 14 marches, demonstrations and gatherings are planned. In London, tens of thousands of people are planning to turn out in solidarity, and sister demonstrations are also being held in Bangor, Barnstaple, Belfast, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Lancaster, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Shipley, Southampton, St Austell and York.LondonWhen and whereSaturday 21 January at midday at the US embassy: 24 Grosvenor Square, W1A 2LQSchedule12pm Marchers are planning to assemble in front of the embassy, before making their way to Trafalgar Square for a 90-minute rally from 2pm. The map below shows the planned route:What to wearOrganisers have asked marchers to wear comfortable shoes and waterproof clothing in case of rain. The march is 1.2 miles long. It is set to be cloudy on Saturday – but likely to be cold.Check the website for last-minute changes and updatesToilet facilities will not be provided by the march organisers. The map of its route identifies some public toilets. This map provides more details. Organisers stress that the march is intended to be peaceful, and ask people to “come with an open mind and an open heart”.Transport and logisticsLondon’s transport authority TfL provides a guide to step-free stations and a tool for route planning. March organisers have also provided a logistics pack.Children and familiesThe march is open to all ages and a children’s area beside the embassy building will be set up where young marchers will be able to get their faces painted, as well as other activities.Disabled people North Audley Street is earmarked for those with access needs. Stewards holding green placards will offer help at the corner of North Audley Street and Grosvenor Square. Organisers say: “People with access needs may wish to join the green group, who will be marching directly behind the frontline. BSL interpreters will be marching in the green group.” They will also interpret speeches both at the embassy and at Trafalgar Square.First aiders will be present. For questions related to access on the day, call 07572 650 733.Shorter routePeople who would rather take a shorter route can join the march where Pall Mall meets Waterloo Place. There will be step-free access to Trafalgar Square with a clear pathway, monitored by stewards. Police have advised people to use the east side of the square for car and taxi drop-off and pick-up. Electric wheelchair users will be able to recharge in the National Gallery.Around the UKFewer details have been made available for the supporting demonstrations, but here is what is out there:BangorThe march will start at 11.30am at Bangor University and end at 2.30pm.BarnstapleThe demo is due to start at midday in the Square. Organisers have asked attendees to bring “banners, musical instruments, voices, open hearts and minds”.BelfastThe Northern Irish march will begin at 3pm at Belfast City Hall, and run until 4pm.CardiffMarchers plan to gather at the Aneurin Bevan statue on Queen Street at 1pm, where there will be a rally, followed by a “food sharing and music event” at the Trinity Centre, Newport Road, from 2.30pm.EdinburghDemonstrators have been asked to gather at the US consulate, at 3 Regent Terrace, at 11am.LancasterThere will be no march in Lancaster, just a gathering that will start at midday at Dalton Square and run for three hours.LeedsThe two-hour demonstration is due to begin at midday at Briggate and organisers have asked people interested in attending to RSVP.LiverpoolA rally is due to start at 1pm at St George’s Hall, ending at 2.30pm.ManchesterMarchers are planning to meet at Albert Square at 1pm for an event due to finish at 3pm.ShipleyProtesters in Shipley, where the local MP, Philip Davies, is a Trump supporter, are planning to meet at midday in the town’s market square for an event that will run until 2pm.SouthamptonDemonstrators are “coming together for a public reading” for half an hour in front of the Bargate Monument at 1pm.St AustellA march, beginning at the beach at 4pm, is planned. Organisers have asked those planning to attend to RSVP.YorkA short march is planned in York, starting at St Michael le Belfrey at midday and coming back round to High Petergate.