Humanity is suffering from an illness the extent of which is not fully known. The impact of this is being felt across the globe. It renders humankind unable to see the plants in their environment and leaves us deeming the vegetation that surrounds us as nothing more than wallpaper, a nice background for the more important things that enhance our lives.Take a photograph of a lion in the wild in Africa and ask anyone what they see. The answer you will invariably get is “a lion”. If you are lucky, you may get the answer “a wild lion” or if you are extremely lucky, “a wild lion in Africa”. Generally you won’t get the answer “The African savannah in the dry season with some amazing acacia scrub and a lion lying on a bed of dry red grass (Themeda triandra) in the shade of a really old sausage tree (Kigelia africana)”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hiding in plain sight: lion cubs amid dry red grass (Themeda triandra) in the Kruger National Park in South Africa. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoThe picture of the lion in the wild in Africa is not just a picture of a lion. It’s a picture of a whole environment and the biodiversity within it; biodiversity that is totally interconnected, and without which the lion cannot survive. I am sure that on some level the lion knows how important that biodiversity is to it.Humans are in exactly the same position as the lion. However, we have forgotten our need for the biodiversity that surrounds us. Particularly we have forgotten the importance of the plants that provide that stunning William Morris wallpaper for our lives. This inability to see the vegetation that surrounds us has been given a name; plant blindness. It has a bearing on the gardening world more than anywhere. In most gardens ornamental plants have just become the set dressings for sun loungers, barbeques, sculptures and water features; a required element but no longer the focus. The price most people are willing to pay for plants is reducing all the time. Plants - living things - often become throwaway items used purely for decoration, with little acknowledgment given to their much deeper importance to the human state. The impacts of this are huge.The people that can “see” the plants and are able to grow them, horticulturists, may be the only people that can save this planet from impending disaster. Yet horticulture is suffering a skills crisis, there are far too few people looking at horticulture as a viable career option. The pay can be low (not always), the work hard (in some cases) and the long term career progression minimal (or so some say). Young people, swayed by the media and a need for greater things, are not interested in being gardeners or botanists (we don’t have a single botany degree left in Britain’s universities and 50% of under 25s see horticulture as a unskilled career); especially when the work is sold to them in the way that it currently is. The industry has started to look to career changers for its influx of new blood; people that have maybe had a successful career and are now looking for more than just the attraction of money on which to base their working lives. Often these are people that have been cured of their plant blindness in an almost evangelical way: all of a sudden they see the background of that lion picture, their stressful lives calmed by the colour green. But it’s a vicious circle. A living still has to be made, so the newly-aware gardeners go to the higher-paid sectors of the industry to find their new careers, and all of a sudden (without even realising it) they are pedalling plants as wallpaper; a lovely palette to set off a hanging seat or garden “pod”. The number of garden designers is growing, and yet specialist plant nurseries, with their intense knowledge of the individual plants in their care, are closing. To change this horticultural employment crisis, we need to look to the root of the problem. We need a wholesale change in the way the majority of people view plants. Plants need to be seen, again, as the vitally important elements in our ecosystem that clothe us, feed us, give us the oxygen that we breathe and the medicines that cure us. They need to be understood to be the carbon sinks that will allow us to reduce global warming, controllers of the impacts of drought and maintainers of fresh water supplies. They need to be seen as the complex living organisms, in their myriad of forms, which they truly are. Plants need to become valued again, elevated from their throwaway, second class status and be put back into the limelight - stolen from them by the furniture (or lions). We need to find a cure for plant blindness, and quickly, because if we don’t, it won’t just be horticulture facing a crisis. • Robbie Blackhall-Miles is a modern day plant hunter’s propagator and gardener. He is interested in ancient families of plants and blogs about these on his website fossilplants.co.uk. He also tweets as @fossilplants.