Poetry makes nothing happen, Auden wrote. It does, however, provide an excellent excuse for a late-January bacchanal. The annual Burns Night supper, marking the birth of Scotland’s national poet, reprises the excesses of Christmas and New Year’s Eve, with a ritualistic meal, strong drink and verse recitat-ions standing in for carols.Accessorised in tartan, in pubs, clubs and private homes throughout the UK, revellers raise glasses to the immortal memory, musically recall “Auld Lang Syne” and, in robust rhyming Scots vernacular, praise haggis then spear, eviscerate and serve it. The rite, with optional ceilidh dancing, is observed from Abu Dhabi to Hawaii, Singapore to Moscow, as well the more obviously diasporic regions of Canada, New Zealand and America (although haggis is currently banned in the Land of the Free).Some native Scots, however, are sceptical about the tradition, and Scottish scepticism, forged in the birthplace of David Hume, has a particularly abrasive quality. One of the most high-profile dissenters from Burnsian orthodoxy was Scotland’s other national poet, Hugh MacDiarmid, who, in 1926, in his most celebrated poem, “A Drunk Man Looks at the Thistle”, wrote of the Ayrshire bard: “Mair nonsense has been uttered in his name/ Than in ony’s barrin liberty and Christ.” MacDiarmid attacked the Burns cult for its reactionary kitsch and “kailyard” sentimentality: “You canna gang to a Burns supper even/ Wi-oot some wizened scrunt o a knock-knee/ Chinee turns roon to say, ‘Him Haggis – velly goot!’ /And ten to wan the piper is a Cockney.”Burns had his “shortcomings” – MacDiarmid, perversely, singled out “a tendency to jeer at foreign things and express a sort of xenophobia”. But it was the “church of Burns”, not the poet himself, who earned MacDiarmid’s true ire: “Croose London Scotties wi their braw shirt fronts/ And aa their fancy freens rejoicin/ That similah gatherings in Timbuctoo/ Bagdad – and Hell, nae doot – are voicin/ Burns’ sentiments o universal love,/ In pidgin English or in wild-fowl Scots”. The devotees didn’t even understand his language, argued MacDiarmid: “No wan in fifty kens a wurd Burns wrote.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Mair nonsense has been uttered in his name’ … Robert Burns. Photograph: Alamy If the English were baffled by his Scots poetry, so much the better The same could, of course, be said about MacDiarmid’s own Scots verse, but for this fierce contrarian, who never claimed the easy charm of his predecessor, accessibility or popularity was not the aim. If the English were baffled by his Scots poetry, so much the better. This was an unsurprising stance from someone who, in his Who’s Who entry, described his hobby as “Anglophobia”. MacDiarmid took pride in contradiction – “Caledonian antisyzygy” he called it – and had the unique distinction of being expelled from the National Party of Scotland, forerunner of the SNP, for being a communist and from the Communist party for being a nationalist. In 1956, after the Soviet invasion of Hungary, when thousands of British communists left the CP in protest, MacDiarmid rushed to rejoin the party.He scorned the vulgarity of the common man and was contemptuous of Scottish culture: “The horde of Burns imitators have … reduced Scots poetry to an abyss of worthless rubbish unparalleled in any other European literature.” In 1922, he predicted that the majority of Scottish writers would choose to write in English because “the English language is an immensely superior medium of expression”. The following year he published two poems in Scots and declared: “The Scots vernacular is a vast storehouse of just the very peculiar and subtle effects which modern European literature in general is assiduously seeking … It is an inchoate Marcel Proust – a Dostoevskian debris of ideas – an inexhaustable quarry of subtle and significant sound.” Within three years he had written his vernacular Scots masterpiece, “A Drunk Man Looks at the Thistle”.The debate over Scots – language or dialect, depending on which side of the argument you stand – flared up again earlier this month in the incongruous setting of the nursery when Jackie Kay, Scotland’s makar, or official national poet, supplied a tender verse, “Welcome Wee One”, to be included in the box of essential equipment provided by the Scottish government to mark the birth of every baby. If it had been a bawdy verse by Catullus or Rochester, it couldn’t have attracted more outrage. In a first, the debate over Scots vernacular poetry trended on Twitter Insults were hurled across the linguistic divide on Mumsnet in full Medean mode, raged through the pages and websites of national newspapers and – a first – the debate over Scots vernacular poetry trended on Twitter. The poem was a William McGonagall mashup, written in the language of The Broons (the Sunday Post cartoon), a phony hybrid of incompatible dialects, like a confected amalgam of cockney, scouse and geordie, without standard spelling or orthography. To suggest that Scots is a cohesive language is a political move, it was argued, designed to reinforce an independent Scottish identity. The poem was just as hotly defended by those who maintained that to deny the validity, and the music, of the language was to adopt the unappealing position of “Scottish cringe” – a collective cowering before the imagined cultural superiority of the southern neighbour.Even among these warring factions, though, there is consensus on the importance of Burns and MacDiarmid. One hundred miles and 133 years separated the births of the two poets: Burns in Alloway, Ayrshire, in 1759, half a century after the Act of Union brought Scotland under English rule and two decades after the failed rebellion against the Union; MacDiarmid in the Borders town of Langholm in 1892, at a time when dreams of Scottish independence had been long buried.Burns wrote his most famous verse in Scots, drawn from the local language and traditional ballads he collected on journeys around the country as a working farmer and exciseman. For MacDiarmid, growing up at the turn of the 20th century, six miles from the border with the auld enemy, language was a more contested issue. He came to write his verse in an argot he proudly called synthetic Scots, using old dictionaries and poetry to draw on Scottish words, ancient and modern, from the country’s rich, lyrical “braid Scots” dialects, from the Lallans of the south-west and central belt, the Doric of the north-east, and the insular dialects of Orkney and Shetland. Gaelic, the old Celtic tongue with no linguistic relation to English, had been repressed and banished to the country’s western fringes.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   He wrote his verse in an argot he proudly called synthetic Scots … Hugh MacDiarmid. Photograph: Jane Bown Reviving Old Scots and fusing it with lively local idiom was, to this most ideological of poets, a political act Reviving Old Scots, which shared roots with the Anglo-Danish of northern England, and fusing it with lively local idiom – the informal language of home, street and playground, banned, like Gaelic, in the classroom – was, to this most ideological of poets, a political act, a defiant reclamation. To his enemies, in Scotland as well as England, the stylised literary language was as fabricated as his name – he was born Christopher Murray Grieve but adopted Hugh MacDiarmid as a nom de guerre.He was always a good hater and would have been a skilled practitioner of the medieval Scots tradition of poetic flyting – the trading of literary insults – but he was good at friendship too. In the 1950s and 1960s, he was the centre of a circle of poets, writers and critics who met regularly in the pubs and howfs of Edinburgh’s Rose Street. Milne’s Bar was a favourite venue and the smoke-filled corner where they regularly gathered became known as Little Kremlin. The group was more than a tight literary milieu, a Bloomsbury of the north, with whisky and incidental bagpipe music; it was the core of what would become known as the modern Scottish renaissance, kindling a cultural confidence that inspired the revived independence movement.A painting in the Scottish National Portrait Gallery – Poets’ Pub by Alexander Moffat – conjures one Rose Street salon. MacDiarmid is the picture’s heart, a centrifugal force in cobalt suit and red scarf, with his terrier features, military moustache and pelt of white hair suggesting a Caledonian Einstein. In front of him, leaning in to hear the master’s voice, is Sydney Goodsir Smith, who overcame the handicaps of birth in New Zealand, English public school and an Oxford education to become one of the foremost poets of Lallans. Sitting at a separate table behind him is Robert Garioch, another champion of Lallans, whose life’s work was to translate Italian verse into braid Scots. Wearing a pale suit and a wary look is the Glasgow poet Edwin Morgan, who was to become the first official Scots makar in 2004. The Orcadian poet and novelist George Mackay Brown, with pint and cigarette, listens intently to MacDiarmid, while behind him huddle the great Gaelic poets of the last century, Iain Crichton Smith and, looming above him, Sorley Maclean. Standing louchely at MacDiarmid’s right, gazing into the middle distance with what could be mild Scottish scepticism, is Norman MacCaig, thought by some to have been the true genius of the group. His elegant, spare verse was written in English and he once described the literary Scots language as “a queer marriage between the dead and the dying”. Somehow, his friendship with MacDiarmid survived.When I began to write my new novel, Hame, featuring a fictional Lallans poet and member of MacDiarmid’s circle, this painting became a talisman, evoking a vanished masculine world – before feminism, Perrier water and smoking bans – in which writers, all men, heroically drunk, could come to blows in fume-filled rooms over a dud line or dodgy syntax. The background figure of a falling soldier, taken from Robert Capa’s famous Spanish civil war photograph, represents the political engagement of the group, but I became intrigued by the women in the picture. One dark-haired beauty lolls woozily at the bar, her long legs sheathed in red; another stands outside in the shadows by the door, a streetwalker perhaps, or a girlfriend waiting for her lover to finish his drink and come home; a red-headed girl is lost in an embrace with a red-headed boy. The fourth woman springs straight from Delacroix, a bare-breasted revolutionary Marianne, clenching her fist and waving the lion rampant flag of Scotland.The women are not identified in captions but it has been suggested that at least one of them, possibly the Marianne figure, is based on an honorary female member of the Rose Street group. Stella Cartwright first walked into Milne’s Bar as a vivacious 16-year-old with a passion for poetry. Known as the Muse of Rose Street, she inspired many lines of verse, had affairs with several of the poets, provoked a few fights and was engaged for a while to shy, gentle Mackay Brown. But she subsequently became an alcoholic, sold her love letters from the Rose Street poets to pay for drink and died almost destitute. In Moffat’s picture we can see her in her glory days, the muse ablaze, calling the men to action. The poets ignore her – as they do all the women in the picture – for they are engaged in the real work of prosody and politics. The irony is that by the time the Rose Street poets were meeting regularly, MacDiarmid had abandoned Scots for his verse What would the Rose Street group have made of the current debate, in which the key figures championing the Scots language are women: makar Jackie Kay and first minister Nicola Sturgeon? And would MacDiarmid exult in the fact that Scots is now recognised as an official language? On the Scottish Parliament’s website (or “wabsite”), constituents are invited to submit questions to their MSPs in Scots: “We wad like tae mak shair that as mony fowk as possible can get tae speir aboot the Scots Pairlament.” The Scots Language Centre, or Centre for the Scots Leid, reports that “Education Scotland haes appyntit [appointed] Scots leed [language] coordinators for tae help mak siccar [secure] that Scots leed teachers is weel fendit [funded] an that Scots is upbiggen [developed] athort [across] the curriculum as appropriate.”The irony is that by the time the Rose Street poets were meeting regularly, MacDiarmid – the inspiration for the new vernacular movement – had quietly abandoned Scots as a vehicle for his verse, reaching instead for a recondite technological language, a new synthetic and, some critics argued, even more wilfully obscure, English. But his remarkable Scots verse of the 20s and early 30s had lit a fuse and it’s clear that in Scotland, as another Burns Night approaches, the battle over language and identity continues. Or, as my fictional Lallans poet might say, “the stramash gangs oan.”• Hame, by Annalena McAfee, is published by Harvill Secker on 9 February. To order a copy for £14.44 (RRP £16.99 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.