People often ask me why I chose the cello. The answer is simple: in fact, the cello chose me. I attended a school with a strong choral tradition. From a very early age, I sang in a choir and loved the wonderful collegiate feeling associated with group singing. I knew that music would always play an important part in my life and that I wanted to perform in front of an audience, but when I tried out the piano, the clarinet and, aged two and a half, the violin, I felt as if I had not found my right musical place. It was when I turned to the cello, however – at the age of four – that suddenly I felt immediately at home. The cello sound very closely recalls the human voice, so it felt instantly familiar to me: it seems to represent soprano, alto, tenor and bass voices all in one, a unifying quality which is very rare and special. My other reason for loving this strange and beautiful instrument is that the cello just happens to fit my body shape very well. I felt comfortable with it from the very beginning. I have rather large hands with a wide span, a physicality much less suited to the violin (unlike my brother, Andrés, a fabulous violinist with whom I often perform).    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A taste of what’s to come …Sol Gabetta plays Elgar I was struck by the delicate change of dynamics going on all the time in Elgar's score What’s fascinating about the cello is its development throughout the ages. It had many lives before it become the modern instrument that we know today, such as viola da gamba and viola d’amore. Often regarded as the most “erotic” of stringed instruments, it was once known as the viola d’amore, which had sympathetic strings or resonance strings that vibrated in harmony with each other; “il love” represented by the strings being touched with the fingers and the bow. While I admire and love the work of very many cellists who have gone before – from the titans of classical music such as Bach to Belgian Adrien-Francois Servals, Frenchman August Franchomme and more recently the Russian-born American cellist, Gregor Piatigorski – I’ve made a conscious decision not to have musical heroes. Instead, I have felt it important to find my own way and not to emulate someone else’s style or performance.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: AlamyI was all too aware of this, of course, in relation to the wonderful Elgar Cello Concerto with which I’ll have the honour of opening the BBC Proms 2016 season, performing with the BBC Symphony Orchestra under Sakari Oramo. Elgar’s Cello Concerto is probably one of the most famous pieces of music in the world, yet when I embarked on my own recording career, I initially did not seek out this magnificent piece. As a young musician, I was aware too of the great legacy of the fabulous Jacqueline du Pré, who had made such a shattering and insightful reading of the work, and I knew that it would be important to bring my own energy to any future performance or recording. I could not resist for long, however, and as I got to know the piece intimately, I was struck by the delicate change of dynamics going on all the time in Elgar’s score and made that the cornerstone of my own interpretation. I think it is the very best concerto ever written for the cello: it is not just characterised by melancholy as many people tend to think, but rather there is a lot of fun in there too, especially in the fourth movement. While we still do not know enough about the background to Elgar’s Cello Concerto and much is left to speculation, we do know that the premiere was a catastrophe; that the conductor did not even want to rehearse the piece and that the whole experience left poor Elgar feeling disheartened and dispirited.It is thrilling to see the BBC Proms give so much emphasis to the cello this year and I am delighted to see that there will be two world premieres for my beloved instrument this season – Huw Watkins’s Cello Concerto, and Charlotte Bray’s Falling in the Fire, both BBC commissions. I play both a Guadagnini with gut strings, dating from 1759, which has a warm, pure, almost transparent sound, and a Goffriller which represents the other side of the cello sound range, being more muscular and robust.  I am moved time and again by how this instrument can sing: its soft, mellow sound represents a real grounding       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sol Gabetta with one of her beloved instruments. Photograph: Uwe ArensI am moved time and time again by this instrument and how it can sing in so many ways: while the violin carries a forward, brilliant sound and can soar to dizzy heights, for me the cello, with its softer, deeper, mellow sound, represents a real grounding; a safe base from which you have the freedom to go out and explore a magical world of sound.Sol Gabetta performs the Elgar Cello Concerto at the First Night of the BBC Proms on 15 July. Sol Gabetta’s 2CD set, Cello, was released on 8 July by Sony Classical. Her new recording of the Elgar Cello Concerto with the Berlin Philharmonic and Sir Simon Rattle is due for release in the autumn.