Sometimes it falls in big fat drops, pummelling my plants like a boxer. Sometimes it blows in gently, as fine as sieved icing sugar. Sometimes the wind whips it in sideways streaks across the windows. Sometimes, just sometimes, it stops falling from the sky altogether. Our tiny island is defined by it, our lives and front door discussions revolve around it. We are an island divided by many things but united by at least one: rain.Rain is a word that is often used pejoratively. “Oh, it’s raining again,” we mutter, slinking out the door for the morning commute. Weather forecasters look sad and with an apologetic shake of their heads inform us of the bad news – more rain. From washed out birthday parties to sodden days at the football pitch, we all seem to dislike the rain. This summer has been no exception: it has been wet. In June Britain’s total rainfall was 139% above average.However, as a gardener, I’ve tried to change my perspective on our constant precipitation. It can be hard. At times I find it difficult to see the rain as anything other than a nuisance. I love sunshine. I love warmth. I love lying on the grass looking up at clear blue sky. And yes, my plants love the sun as well. But it’s moisture that all plants really need to survive. It is the rain that makes Britain such a beautifully green place.It’s easy to forget what a precious resource water really is and how lucky we are to live in a part of the world with an abundance of it. Even though Tim Peake’s pictures from space show a profusion of blue, the truth is that only 2.5% of the Earth’s water is fresh water. Living in Britain, this statistic can be hard to believe. However, the truth is that much of the world struggles to find a source of clean water. Floods aside, we are the lucky ones.Even in western countries, water can be a contentious issue. On the west coast of America, California has been suffering from an entrenched drought for years: trees are dying, reservoirs are running dry, and farmers are tapping groundwater as crops wither. All this can make those dark skies, which so often swirl in over Britain from the Atlantic Ocean, seem like a blessing.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hosta ‘Halcyon’. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoWater is the lifeblood of any garden. My garden can happily handle a few weeks of overcast skies and drizzle, but take away the water for an extended period and everything starts to hunch and bend. Plants are around 90% water. Water, and its relative amount, controls almost all aspects of how plants grow, from photosynthesis to absorbing nutrients to even maintaining the very structure of a plant’s leaves. Take away the water, and you take away the garden.I’ve not always lived in such a lush land like Britain. For a time I lived in the south-western United States. The area I resided in received less than 25cm of rain a year; it was a true desert. The temperatures in summer often soared above 40C. The environment was harsh. Yes, it could be pretty in its own way, but the thin sandy soil was a desolate burnt brown. Most plants struggled to grow. Cacti dotted the landscape, adding specks of green here and there, but they always seemed to be holding their thorny arms skyward as if praying for rain.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The lime green leaves of lady’s mantle (Alchemilla mollis). Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoDriving through the British countryside is a completely different experience. Everywhere, one colour dominates - from the forests to rolling farmland, green sings out. For me, it is the colour of life. Any green is a beautiful green. From the lime green of lady’s mantle (Alchemilla mollis) to the blue-green of Hosta ‘Halcyon’, I love the colour green. It is a colour fed by the rain.After a hot spell, rain is in the forecast again. Due to all the moisture, some of my rose blooms are struggling to open. Also, I need to go out and stake a couple of flopping delphiniums. Of course it’s the rain’s fault, but I wouldn’t have it any other way. As we dart back and forth between showers, instead of lamenting the rain, let’s try to see it for what it is: a life-giving substance; a precious gift to any garden. If you can, try to love a rainy day.