Where does Batman v Superman's mauling leave Warner's plan for a DC comics cinematic universe? Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice currently has a lower Rotten Tomatoes rating, at 3o%, than any major Batman movie since Joel Schumacher’s widely derided 1997 effort Batman & Robin. But perhaps you saw things differently from the critics – or think they were paid off anyway (thanks for my new Ferrari, Marvel!). This is your chance to have your say on the movie without fear of spoiling things for anyone else who’s not yet had the (dubious) pleasure of seeing it. So what do we need to discuss?Batfleck: the caped crusader as tricked-out UFC champNaysayers point out that the guns on Affleck’s Batmobile undercut the character’s usual (though not constant) “No killing” rule. But otherwise this is a pretty decent take on Gotham’s dark knight. Affleck wears the cape and cowl with an intimidating physical presence unmatched by any previous Batman. This is the caped crusader as tricked-out UFC fighter rather than the more graceful, KFM-influenced street-fighting dark knight essayed by Christian Bale. And his double act with Jeremy Irons’ equally jaded Alfred Pennyworth is highly enjoyable, with the butler moving into a remote-sidekick role that makes you wonder how Batfleck’s predecessors ever got by without such impressive tech-powered guidance.And yet Affleck’s Bruce Wayne is an arrogant bully whose disturbing sexual comments towards Gal Gadot’s Wonder Woman mark him out as a man with a problematic moral compass. And did you swallow the bit where his realisation of a human connection with Superman (their mothers both share the Christian name Martha) saw Batman instantly switch from readying himself to kill Kal-El to heading off to save his opponent’s mum from certain death? And can we forgive him for nearly offing the greatest superhero in comics in time for a double whammy of Snyder-directed Justice League movies in 2017 and 2018?Jeremy Irons: ‘I have the natural tendency of a benign dictator’ Jesse Eisenberg’s wacky weirdo Lex LuthorJesse Eisenberg’s Luthor is a bizarrely unhinged creature, fascinating to watch and with some splendid, operatic lines of dialogue. But what is the motivation for his hatred of Superman and apparent obsession with other superhumans? I’ve read suggestions that Luthor’s determination to kill off the man of steel stems from a sense of youthful victimhood at the hands of his overbearing father. But even that doesn’t make a whole lot of sense. Was Eisenberg hoping to achieve the kind of radical reinvention of a classic DC supervillain that saw Heath Ledger win a posthumous Oscar for his turn as the Joker? If so, he had Batman v Superman’s screenwriters as willing accomplices to the crime. It now seems a big ask for Eisenluthor to become the DC Comics universe’s big, bad-guy puppet master. Yet the movie’s final scenes suggest that was the fast-crumbling plan.'There’s a lot to be worried about': a comics geek's verdict on Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice What was going on in Batman’s dream sequences?It seems DC has its own take on the popular end-credit sequences which introduce new characters into the rival Marvel universe. Bruce Wayne’s nightmarish vision of a future ruled by a fascist Superman was another visually spectacular Snyder gem hidden amid the murk. Will the man of steel somehow team up with DC supervillain Darkseid, whose trademark winged, insect-like Parademon followers were clearly apparent in the dream, for a future movie? And what was going on in that second sequence with a messed-up Flash apparently trying to deliver Wayne a warning? My colleague Jordan Hoffman reckons the zippy superhero Flash might have been using the Speed Force to travel through time. What are your thoughts?The new arrivals: Wonder Woman, the Flash, Cyborg and AquamanSnyder did his job of setting up future movies, but was it really wise to wheel out Wonder Woman for the grand finale against Doomsday when we’d still only barely got to know her? Gal Gadot looks an excellent choice for the role, and we now know she’s more than a match for anyone else in the new DC universe. But I’m still confused as to exactly why they’re setting the movie in 1916 when the classic comic book incarnation is a second world war-era one? We’ll likely find out when the Monster director Patty Jenkins presents Wonder Woman’s solo outing next year. Are you still excited about it?Luthor’s stolen video files were a neat, found footage-influenced way to give us a tantalising glimpse of the superheroes who will soon populate the DC universe. Cyborg already looks like the most mouthwatering prospect, though Warner Bros will have to work hard to avoid the inevitable Robocop comparisons. Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice review – Ben Affleck earns his batwings Superman’s “death”, and other plot twistsIt seems highly unlikely that Snyder had time to do reshoots after the fan backlash against spoiler-laden trailers. And yet, after virtually giving away the ending of the movie (that Batman and Superman eventually make up and fight Doomsday with Wonder Woman), the film-maker clearly needed a big final plot twist to ensure fans don’t leave the cinema feeling cheated. That the film pretends to kill off Superman, when we all know Henry Cavill has been cast in both Justice League movies, feels like a really cheap trick. Showing General Zod’s dead body in trailers, by the way, also made it pretty easy to predict that the genetically enhanced monstrosity Doomsday would be based on the dead Kryptonian. OK, the creature also has some DNA taken from a few drops of Lex Luthor’s blood, but really, who cares? Is Snyder the right man to take this forward?   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ben Affleck, Henry Cavill and Zack Snyder discuss Batman v Superman.If only Warner Bros had asked Snyder to shoot a live-action adaptation of Frank Miller’s classic 1986 graphic novel The Dark Knight Returns, instead of the bloated, desperate attempt at universe-building that is Batman v Superman. We already know that when Snyder steals directly from the comic books, as he did on Watchmen and 300, the results are gorgeous. One of the best realised moments in Dawn of Justice – the death of Bruce Wayne’s parents – is a straight lift of the same scene in Miller’s comic, complete with Martha Wayne’s pearls snagging on the gunman’s weapon in Snyder’s trademark slow-mo. But when Snyder is asked to come up with his own ideas – Sucker Punch is a notable example – the results are far less impressive. Does he really have the vision to craft two blockbuster Justice League movies for 2018 and 2019, in which Batman, Superman and Wonder Woman will team up to take down unknown enemies? Maybe, just maybe, Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice was the jumbled sacrificial lamb required to get all the DC universe-building out of the way, allowing the next films to flourish. But might a more visionary director be better qualified? Where’s George Miller when you need him?