While she was writing her first book, Amy Rose Spiegel regularly abandoned her apartment to install herself in various hotels and motels around New York City, including a dive in Queens overlooking the site of the 1964 World’s Fair, and a Rockaway Beach locale where she was handed a joint on entry. Action: A Book About Sex, feels as though it could have been written in an apartment at 28 Barbary Lane, the bohemian residence at the heart of Armistead Maupin’s cult queer series Tales Of The City.A former editor at Rookie Magazine, 25-year-old Spiegel is a literary stylist whose writing betrays an infectious sense of life’s possibilities: “Gilding the kingdom of your brain will help you establish a ‘sex life’ by building, first, a multilayered ‘life’, no modifiers,” she declares, in a book that has little in common with The Joy Of Sex’s fleshy morass. She’ll use Latin epithets to discuss rim jobs, and a combination of Federico García Lorca’s poetry and the McDonald’s menu to talk about flirting. There’s a magnetic groove to her tone that feels straight out of Maupin’s 1970s, but Action is a sex book for 21st-century sexual politics, and the first written for a generation for whom gender and sexual fluidity are a matter of course rather than a curio.Spiegel’s gift is being able to write with total inclusivity – for queer, trans, straight, asexual and celibate bodies and desires – without scrimping on specificity (sections include “how to eat a pussy” and “an introduction to ass”). But it also doesn’t get bogged down in those differences of identity. “I find that so often the tone of sex writing is very heteronormative and based in what you could be doing as opposed to the fact that you’re probably doing plenty that’s right,” says Spiegel, video-chatting from her Brooklyn apartment. “The fact that there’s even a ‘wrong’ or ‘right’ approach to sex probably feels like a trap. It’s often more discouraging than encouraging. And I feel like the more that people focus on the differences of people of different genders and sexes, the more it reinforces that.”Action is broken down into three acts: preparation, sex and its various potential aftermaths. The hardest parts to write were the “straightforward parts that dealt with pragmatic sexual advice”, she says, because she was aware of the fact that advice can be as limiting as it is helpful. “Giving advice is to say, ‘this is the way to do it’, and I really wanted to be conscious of not inspiring that feeling in somebody else.” Publisher Grand Central is billing Action as a self-help book, though it’s also been referred to as a memoir. It feels more like a wise and experienced companion, whose belief in the reader, whom Spiegel addresses frequently, feels like a dare to trust that you could follow her confident and charming lead.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Amy Rose Spiegel: ‘Not talking about sex is as oppressive as not talking about money.’ Photograph: Jordan HemingwayWhile trading in facts and candour, Action is a dispatch from a fantasy world where respect, consent and health are the enshrined foundation of all relationships, matters on which Spiegel is unequivocal. Spiegel treats experiences of a partner stating that they have had an STI, or asking her if she’s been tested recently, as a matter of honesty rather than shame. Early on, she establishes that by “consensual sex”, we simply mean “sex”, and debunks the term “sex positivity” for the negative alternative it connotes. “There’s an enormous usefulness in those terms because, sadly, a lot of the time, those aren’t things that are considered the run-of-the-mill approach,” she says. “It’s confusing for someone who doesn’t read frequently about sex or identity to have those things be separate, and I wanted to really drive home the point that that should be a part of the sex that you’re having, always! It shouldn’t be something that you feel you have to look for or identify as its own category.”Illuminating the darker corners of sexual discourse is key to Action’s philosophy: “Not talking about sex is as oppressive as not talking about money,” Spiegel writes, likening the notion to Michel Foucault’s idea of “repressive hypothesis”, from his book A History Of Sexuality, by which we reinforce the taboo around certain subjects by continuing to refer to them as taboo. Pitching the book helped Spiegel overcome her own fears about sex writing. Examining the anxiety, she found that she harboured internalised misogyny about the kind of woman who “writes about sex to get attention”, she says. “My fear was of the stigma of being a woman who talks openly about sex and is seen as brazen or in some way unseemly, which is a form of oppression, because it disallows you from owning something that is, in a lot of people’s cases, a huge part of your life. When I started parsing that, I realised that it was something I really wanted to work on.”As a teenager in her native New Jersey, Spiegel’s public high school sex education had focused mainly on abstinence. “It was not at all positive, not at all representative of queer experiences,” she says. “It was scare tactics. I knew at the time – everybody did – that it was a joke, but there wasn’t an alternative.” While she had positive sexual experiences as a teenager, she says that the poor education “left a mark for a while on the way that I perceived what was OK and socially acceptable in terms of sex, and being open about it.” As an English literature major at New York’s Pace University, she loved exploring and contemplating her sexuality, but was guarded about her experiences. “There was no way of making it external for a long time, until I started writing about it.” Writing about sex helped me realise how few resources I had encountered After graduation, Spiegel became one of Rookie’s story editors, covering sex, culture and beauty for the teen-girl publication. “Writing about sex helped me realise how few resources I had encountered,” Spiegel recalls. “And especially writing for teenagers was useful because they had tons of questions about it. It made me realise it’s OK to try and think about this together, and that was a hugely formative experience.” She wrote Action with one hand on poet and critic Wayne Koestenbaum’s My 1980s, “basically pledging my life to it”, she says, calling him “the absolute god”. EB White, the poet Gwendolyn Brooks, and New Yorker critic Hilton Als were also fundamental to developing her inimitable style. “I want writing that feels very much accepting and comfortable with itself, even if that means forging a new way of speaking.”Sex and the TV: how television evolved from pregnancy scandals to 'pegging' You can also hear the foundations of Action’s pleasure principle in Bikini Kill’s I Like Fucking, where Kathleen Hanna sings: “I believe in the radical possibilities of pleasure, babe.” Spiegel negotiates pleasure from every angle: the literal ins and outs, her desire to put attentive lovers into “a blackout orgasm”, how to make educated purchases in a sex shop, and thornier desires, like using rape as a fantasy. At its heart, Action advocates for living with honesty and respect for yourself and others, and celebrates curiosity and confidence: the first section works as a guide to living a kind and fulfilling life, linking it with the ur-sex text, the Kama Sutra. It’s a common enough idea that you have to learn to love yourself before you can love anyone else, but that philosophy is rarely articulated with as much practicality and generosity as she pulls off here. “Sex is hard to extricate from the rest of what it is to be a person,” she says. “As I was writing the book, I realised that was fundamental, these baseline understandings of how to come at sex from a loving and responsible standpoint are rooted so firmly in the rest of how you live your life, and the rest of how you come to relationships.”Action: A Book About Sex is out now via Grand Central Publishing