Judi Dench has just unveiled her first tattoo – at the age of 81 – a surprise birthday present from her daughter. The marking on her wrist reads “carpe diem”, a motto that she says is important in her life. Inspired by this, we asked our readers about the tattoos they got later in life and why. Jane Aireton, 67, Alderney, Channel Islands: ‘Getting it done felt like walking in nettles. I’m used to that as a gardener’ After the older generation in my family, including my father, had passed away, I decided to do something for myself and for others in a wider context. I was in my mid-60s and had gone from looking after my children to looking after my parents and in-laws, and then suddenly I found myself looking at a blank canvas.I had always wanted to write a book, so I decided to do it with a friend. It was called Success at 60 Plus, encouraging other people my age to transform their lives and find happiness in seven steps. To celebrate its publication I also did a few things I’d always wanted to do, including getting a tattoo. My tattoo is the visible sign of a huge mental shift – and me saying “yes” to life again – that’s why I am so proud of it.I live on a little island in the middle of the English Channel, so I had to travel to Southampton to get it done.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest My background is in nursing so I wasn’t the least bit nervous, just curious to see how she did it, how long it took (it was very fast), what dyes she used and what tools she needed. I was so excited when it was finished, it was exactly what I wanted. It didn’t hurt, if you imagine walking through bed of nettles that’s how it felt – but as a gardener that didn’t worry me. My conservatively dressed husband looked so out of place in the parlour full of tattooed and pierced people. The person who did it, however, didn’t make any comment at all about the fact I was older than most people she works on, she took it in her stride.I decided to get a scorpion tattoo because my husband has been writing a story about a scorpion and a princess priestess for years. It is one of a triptych of three mystical stories for grownups. Two are complete, the third refuses to be finished. My scorpion tattoo, from my point of view, was a perfect reminder to him to finish the story.My children and friends were gobsmacked. They know I am a free spirit, but they didn’t expect me to get a tattoo at my age. I had never told anyone that I had always wanted one. My parents were terribly conventional, so even getting my ears pierced was a bit of a mission growing up. We all need a few secrets to surprise people who think they know us.I am excited to be part of a new generation of women who have the opportunity to use their 60s to fulfil their dreams and make a difference. We can do more than we ever imagined we could. Heather Morris, 69, Cardiff: ‘My friend said, “You’ve got a tattoo!” She was a bit surprised’I had my first tattoo done three years ago when I was 66. I had it done in Portland, Oregon, where I was working as a volunteer for three months at the family relief nursery, helping the children of families in need with my story books and my puppet. I was a teacher’s aide and travelled thousands of miles from Wales to be there.When I retired I ended up in Portland after I found out about placements for volunteer workers in the US. Visa regulations meant that I could only stay in the US for three months at a time, so I ended up going back home for a short period each year.One day I was riding on a bus on my way to my volunteer post, when I began chatting to a young woman with a tattoo and asked her where she’d had it done. She told me the name of the parlour and said it was the best in Portland.Then a few days later, on the bus journey back to the retirement home that I was staying in, I saw that very tattoo parlour, so I got off the bus and made an appointment.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I got a blue butterfly on my shoulder because I am a recovering alcoholic and a butterfly is a symbol of something emerging – people often use the imagery of butterflies when talking about recovery, it expresses the idea of coming into the light. I had my last drink in June 1988. It was the best decision that I have ever made and if I hadn’t done it then I wouldn’t be here today. I pondered whether to get a tattoo of a butterfly or an anemone, because my mum was a florist and that was her favourite flower. She died without knowing that I was in recovery.The parlour was scrupulously clean, and the whole process was exciting. They were intrigued by my adventure in Portland and, like everyone I met there, they were kind and considerate. I loved it from the word go. There was no pain just a hot feeling on my skin. They gave me cream to apply regularly and said if there were any problems to go back. I had no problems at all, it healed beautifully.I went swimming with a friend shortly after I got it and she said, “Heather, you’ve got a tattoo!” She was a bit surprised, although I am known to be impulsive. The people I met in Portland were wonderful and everyone had tattoos. Moving there from the UK on my own, I felt like a different person. I think that’s partly why I did it. Age doesn’t matter and I don’t regret it. I had time to consider beforehand and it’s lovely, it’s decorative and it’s never leaving me. John Harvey, 73, Cheltenham: ‘I decided to have a recyclable logo because I am an organ donor’I got my first tattoo on my birthday this year in February, and I got the second and third ones shortly after that. I am now due to have my fourth (and last) tattoo in a fortnight’s time. People do say that they are addictive, but I feel this will definitely be my last one.I had been thinking of getting a tattoo for only about a year before I finally did it. I never wanted one when I was younger; it’s funny how attitudes change like that. When I was younger the quality of tattoos was a bit rougher and it seemed to me rather common, but now we are in different cultural place when it comes to tattoos. The artists are also very skilled these days.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Part of the reason I went for it is because the cafe I go to every day is patronised by the staff of a tattoo parlour across the street, and they all seemed to be very friendly – it still surprises me when young people are friendly towards older people. I also know a young lady who works in the reception of the studio, so I decided to dip my toe in. What delighted me was that there wasn’t the slightest adverse reaction to a 73-year-old asking for a tattoo. The same went for the artist, who took my request for a simple design as seriously as if I had asked for a whole sleeve. They made me feel very at home.The whole experience was very pleasant and it didn’t really hurt: I got them done on my upper arm, which isn’t a particularly sensitive place. Each tattoo took about an hour to complete, as they are quite small. After my first design (the yin/yang, which I got because I believe in the circularity of life), I decided to have a recyclable logo because I am an organ donor (it might give someone a smile someday). I have always been a staunch believer in nuclear disarmament, so followed up with the CND symbol. For symmetry, I now plan on getting a Chinese good luck symbol, simply because I like the look of it.I don’t have any family, so didn’t have to worry about what they thought, and a lot of my friends are younger anyway, so they didn’t care about my tattoos. I definitely recommend getting one, but I would say that you should think carefully about what design you want, as they are for ever. You also need to pick the right artist carefully.