The government is proposing to build a database that would identify 18 million patients and store records of their GP appointments without their consent, according to documents obtained by the Guardian.By the end of this year, the prime minister has pledged that millions of patients will have access to a GP in the evening and at the weekend. A senior official in the NHS, Tracey Grainger, who runs the prime minister’s challenge fund which disburses monies for the plan, wrote last month to IT companies asking for confidential data for patients who get a “seven-day” service.In this latest attempt to build a large-scale patient database to allow GP workloads to be assessed, Grainger asked the IT firms for the date, time and duration of appointments as well as the reason for the consultation. Most of the postcode of the patient is also asked for, as well as their year of birth. GPs are the data controllers. They are the people who can decide whether this should be released or notPhil Booth, medConfidential While Grainger writes that by September she wants to “obtain extracts of de-identified patient level data”, the NHS goes on to suggest that the transmitted data could be encrypted and then easily deciphered once it arrived at the prime minister’s unit.Privacy campaigners say that bypassing GPs and collecting medical information from data processors such as computer firms would be “a serious breach of the Data Protection Act”.The letter sent to EMIS, which supplies software to half of England’s GP practices, advises the company to encrypt patients’ NHS numbers with a “key provided” by the NHS. This would mean that once any sensitive patient data is received it could be easily “re-identified” by the prime minister’s NHS team.The issue of inadequate patient safeguards for the sharing of confidential data across the NHS has dogged major government health projects. Care.data, a plan to link and store all patient data in a single database, was stopped by ministers in February 2014, less than a fortnight before the first patient records were due to be extracted, after concerns were raised that patients had not been sufficiently informed about the scheme.This time it is the potential re-identification of patients that has sparked a privacy row.“Under the law, GPs are the data controllers of patient information. They are the people who can decide whether this should be released or not. IT companies cannot do this,” said Phil Booth, coordinator of patient privacy advocates medConfidential.The creation of a new database of identifiable patient data from the information collected by the prime minister’s team would be a first in the NHS, says Booth. “You cannot claim to be collecting de-identified data when it’s clear you can re-identify it yourself.”Don't lecture us Jeremy Hunt, we doctors already work 24/7 in the NHS Traditionally doctors have been able to use NHS numbers to identify a patient and associate them with their correct medical details. Law enforcement agencies – such as the police or the National Crime Agency – can also request patient addresses using NHS numbers. Between 2008 and 2013 law enforcement authorities made 28,744 trace requests.EMIS Health said that no data had been released in response to the request. The company said in a statement: “We can confirm that Emis Health, along, we believe, with all the other GP software suppliers in England, received a request from NHS England about a proposed data extract.”“As a software provider, EMIS Health is the data processor not the data controller. This responsibility rests with GP practices who must give their consent to any extract as the data controllers of this information.”|“We have strict information governance procedures that we follow for any request of this nature. As well as internal assessment this includes careful consultation with a representative panel of our GP practices.”A spokesperson for the information commissioner’s office said patient data could not be used for anything other than “direct care”, adding: “Any disclosure of information that can identify individual patients must comply with data protection laws. We have raised issues surrounding the various flows of patient information for purposes unconnected with their direct care with the Health and Social Care Information Centre and NHS England to ensure that any disclosures comply with the law.”A spokesman for NHS England said the proposals in the letter are now not being pursued. “They were suggestions. We are now looking to work with GP surgeries directly to support them in collecting the information needed about appointments. “NHS England will receive summaries of this, giving information about numbers of appointments, patterns of activity through the week, and the impact of the access innovations being introduced by practices. This will not include any personal information such as partial postcode or year of birth.”