I fell out with my parents in 1977, when I became a punk. Dad was a very stiff upper-lip Englishman. The idea that his son had started wearing bright blue trousers and pink shoes, and dying his hair black, didn’t fit in. He was horrified. It was not what his father fought a war for. Of course, I wanted him to hate it. Before the whole punk thing kicked off, my dad and I would get up early every Sunday, drive to the countryside and ramble around looking for wildlife or bits of history. And when we started arguing, I’d still get up and be waiting at the gate on a Sunday morning. I’d have leather trousers, blond hair and my binoculars. My dad would have his tweed cap on. We’d go out to the countryside and ramble about, eat the terrible cake my mum had baked, then we’d drive back home and go our separate ways again. Some days we would hardly speak because we’d have had a massive row the day before. But that wasn’t going to stop us enjoying each other’s company.Dad had been to sea as a merchant seaman and worked for a marine company as an engineer. He believed that school was for the basics – when I came home, his duty was to further my education. I was taught to read by looking at encyclopaedias. My dad would test me on them. To this day, I can see the layout of those encyclopaedias. We must have gone through them thousands of times.My mother, a housewife, was more interested in the cultural side of things. My interest in art probably arose from the fact that she would take me to art galleries. I remember going into Southampton City Art Gallery when I was five and imagining I was part of the worlds that the paintings projected.I’m four years older than my sister [fashion designer Jenny Packham]. We’re very different, but we’ve always got on. My father used to have this ancient, olive green zip-up cardigan that he loved. It had a cream patterned knit. My mother would throw it out and my father would get it out of the bin. This went on for years. One Christmas, when I was 20, my sister and I decided we’d had enough. So we made a wickerman in the garden, dressed it in the cardigan and set fire to it. Then I said to my father, ‘Goodness me, what’s that in the garden?’ Dad leapt up and walked over to the window and there was his cardigan blazing on this facsimile of himself. He took it really well.My parents were never satisfied with what my sister and I did. They never congratulated us. It was tough, but because of our unquenchable desire to try to satisfy them, my sister and I worked incredibly hard. But nothing I’ve ever done has been good enough for me – that was handed on from my parents. In a perverse way, I’m extremely grateful to them – unquestionably, they drove me to succeed in life.The relationship I have with my step-daughter Megan, who’s 20, is very different to the one I had with my parents. I know she’s not genetically mine, but we’re very close and, strangely, quite alike. Our relationship has changed me profoundly. I’ve been very surprised by it. It’s been a revelation. It was important to me that Megan grew up with animals all around her. I wanted her to respect animals, communicate with them and understand them. When Megs was five, I smeared her face with jam and got wasps to lick it all off. I didn’t want her to ever be afraid of wasps. She’s also been scratched by a tiger and bitten by a meerkat. And a snake. We laughed about it – well, after she’d finished crying. But I didn’t expect she would choose to study biology and zoology. She’s very passionate about animal welfare. At the moment, she’s working for a charity in China, helping them provide behavioural enrichment for bears that have been rescued from bile farms. I couldn’t have asked for more.