Poor ol’ Meg Ryan. Meg Ryan, who probably grew up wanting to be an actor and not a stock photo for articles on orgasms (or a clip in a TV round-up of most excruciating interview moments ever), but them’s the breaks.The screen-grab of Ryan’s infamous diner-based orgasm simulation scene in When Harry Met Sally is back doing the rounds to illustrate new research that may hold the key to the evolutionary reasoning behind the female orgasm.Mystery of the female orgasm may be solved This is news that the female orgasm might exist because, in the past, the hormonal surges that accompanied it signalled the release of eggs for fertilisation (ovulation) – something which now happens spontaneously.“It is important to stress that the human female orgasm doesn’t look like it does now,” said co-author Mihaela Pavličev from Cincinnati children’s hospital.This is just the latest in a long line of theories on the female petite mort, which has inspired everything from the shape of Christian Louboutin’s shoes to Jane Birkin’s contribution on Gainsbourg’s notorious Je T’aime … Moi, Non Plus. Here are some other theories on the existence of the female orgasm. The up-suck hypothesis      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘This theory of female orgasm is called the sperm retention mechanism.’ Photograph: AlamyOnce, I thought the best way to stop getting crumbs all over my keyboard was to buy this mini-hoover thing from one of those catalogues nobody ever buys anything from (you know the ones: tucked into newspaper supplements, mostly offering sausage dog-themed crockery), rather than to just stop eating biscuits at my desk. Some scientists believe that the female orgasm acts as one of these “mini-hoover things”, contracting the uterine muscles to suck up sperm. See also: women trying to get pregnant doing handstands on their beds. This theory of female orgasm is called the “sperm retention mechanism”, or the “up-suck hypothesis” which – I think we can all agree – are both very sexy terms.A study on this theory involved women collecting “flowback”, ie ejaculated semen from the vagina, after sex, and measuring its sperm count against whether the woman had also experienced orgasm. The problem unforeseen by scientists – HOW? – was that the men’s ejaculate was of differing volumes and sperm count to begin with, so the studies don’t tell us much, female orgasm or no orgasm.Sperm warsIn a further twist on the theory above, biologist Robin Baker also believed in something called “sperm wars”. At least, he wrote about “Sperm Wars”, which imagines that old and new sperm of various men fight each other in a woman’s reproductive tract. Baker likes to refer to sperm as “killer sperm”, “kamikaze sperm” and “egg-getters”, leaving me wondering whether he has watched that orgy scene from Shakespeare in Love way too many times.Poleaxe hypothesis      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The point of a female orgasm is to exhaust the woman, leaving her prone on her back.’ Melina Mercouri as Stella in 1955. Photograph: The Ronald Grant ArchiveThis is the thinking that the point of a female orgasm is to exhaust the woman, leaving her prone on her back, dragging on a post-coital cigarette, allowing the sperm an easier and lower gradient route to the cervix, reducing – shudder – flowback. The poleaxe hypothesis was proposed by Desmond Morris and whose other theory, to follow, makes more sense.Pair bonding      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘There are a lot of pictures of Desmond Morris posing with an ape in front of a well-stocked bookcase.’ Photograph: ITV/Rex FeaturesMorris had many thoughts on the female orgasm, and he wrote them all down in his book The Naked Ape. I know that Morris wrote this book because there are a lot of pictures of him on Google Images posing with an ape in front of a well-stocked bookcase. A part of me thinks he only wrote this book to enable those pictures to be taken for the inside jacket.But the theory that the female orgasm exists because the hormones that are produced when it happens – oxytocin and prolactin, for instance – contribute to warm feelings towards a mate makes sense to me.Dating is hard. Liking someone for a prolonged period of time is hard. Or as Sara Pascoe once put it: “If Adam and Eve can’t make it work in Paradise, then what chance have I got in Lewisham?” We need all the help we can get, nature.Stephen Moss on Desmond Morris, the man who wrote the groundbreaking book The Naked Ape The quality testSome scientists posit that orgasms are just there to test the “quality” of a mate. Do you want to marry Steve? Sure, as long as he makes you come.Obviously we want to be with someone who is good in bed. But, according to various research, people who date higher-educated and higher-income folk orgasm more. From what I have read these studies, surprise surprise, only focus on heterosexual couples, and also, nobody ever orgasmed because of algebra or a dude’s ability to buy an over-expensive piece of tech, so I’m discounting this one.Because it’s awesomeGod bless you, Elisabeth Lloyd, author of 2005’s The Case of the Female Orgasm. Lloyd has endured much muttering from male evolutionary biologists in toupees, because her book’s premise was basically: huh, maybe there is no explicit function to the female orgasm, it’s just a “fantastic bonus”. A vestigial byproduct, a bit like men’s nipples, but much better. This point was also made by Lloyd’s colleague, Stephen Jay Gould, in a 1992 article entitled: “Male nipples and clitoral ripples”, which I imagine is a title Lloyd and Gould definitely high-fived over.Women deserve orgasm equality | Jessica Valenti Can any of us really argue with Lloyd? Orgasms are fun for women and surely this is the most important thing to remember.Perhaps, however, the research shouldn’t stop (well, except the study I stumbled across which begins: “Women with known histories of either vaginal orgasm or vaginal anorgasmia were videotaped walking on the street, and their orgasmic status was judged by sexologists blind to their history,” which doesn’t sound like a study so much as something that carries a two- to four-year custodial sentence). I can think of so many obvious other motives for female orgasm that haven’t even been addressed: to alleviate boredom; noisily, in the morning, as payback for your neighbours blaring the TV loud last night; as a stress reliever when deadline approaches. Literally, all of the above. But would I also love to hear your thoughts on female orgasms in the comments below? Yes, yes, oh, yes! 