Vodou is elusive and endangered, but it remains the soul of Haitian people From Kiss’s hard rock kabuki to Slipknot’s masks, metal has always loved a gimmick. Factor in bands like Alestrom (pirates), Battlelore (Hobbits) and Gwar (hell knows) and it can often feel as if no schtick has been left unexplored. In 2016, the latest band to go high concept is Vôdûn. A UK-based trio who play lucid thrash spiked with tribal drums while daubed in warpaint, they’re primarily inspired by west African vodou.“It’s about taking on the spirits we embody, that warrior element, and helping us to be truly in the moment,” explains frontwoman Chantal Brown, formerly of cowl-sporting arkestra Chrome Hoof and, before that, oddball nine-piece Do Me Bad Things. “It’s about entertainment value, too, but our interest in vodou runs deeper than that.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Brown discovered the religion through fellow Hoof singer Lola Olafisoye. “She’s a spiritual practitioner, and she’d share all these books she had on west African history,” says Brown. It proved a powerful inspiration to a group wanting to write heavy music steeped in spirituality and feminism. “It had feminist undertones: a lot of the gods and priestesses were female,” Brown continues. “People have tried to demonise it for centuries. It was the culture of a people who have been oppressed, killed off and enslaved. There’s more to it than sticking pins in dolls.”Vôdûn’s aesthetic could easily be seen as contrived but it undeniably sets Vôdûn apart from other heavy British bands. Musically, they cut through the current trend for floppy-fringed emo-metal in the vein of Bring Me The Horizon. By contrast, Vôdûn’s debut album, Possession, sounds like Slayer doing Black Box’s Ride On Time and their shows are more like acid raves than metal gigs. A similarly ravey sense of abandon is key to their music, and Brown sees links with her own musical heritage: “I come from a gospel background; being possessed is like catching the holy ghost, or speaking in tongues.”Brown understands that tapping into such traditions risks accusations of cultural appropriation but refutes the idea. “This is my heritage, and I’m reclaiming it from years of racist caricature,” she says. “I was born in France, to American parents, and brought up in Brixton, immersed in west African and West Indian culture. This is my identity; I want to celebrate it.”That celebratory spirit can be felt at their shows, where tambourines are distributed so the audience can join in. For Brown, vodou is central to their riotous racket. “It helps our songs be heavy, powerful and free.”Possession is out now; Vôdûn play Pandora Fest, nr Denny, Saturday 16 July; The Library, Leeds, Sunday 17 July