I have filled my pockets with freezing fingers that have refused their office at the focus wheel of my binoculars. A period of heavy rainfall has ended and a biting cold wind has arrived. There is nothing for it but to visit the river. It’s an easy walk from the house up the white-chalk drover’s road onto the spine of the downs. It’s here where the river appears – and sometimes disappears within the space of a day. A winterbourne.To concentrate on the prosaic mode of their appearance – aquifers of chalk become saturated, steadily releasing their water – is to miss the winterbournes’ unique vitality. That a stream of glycerine-clear water should be there where before there was none is the epitome of nature at its most tantalisingly transient. That it should spring up here, fleeting and temporary, is a gift to the birds in a freeze – and, beside these sun-shafted winter beech woods, a thing of subtle, bright beauty.It strikes out on the shoulder of the down and paints an indistinct boggy darkness across the turf. I follow it downhill. It soon finds its channel and begins to run quickly through the grass in a smooth braided ribbon no more than 16cm across.The tit and the wood mouse Looking more closely at the shimmering streamer, I can see the blades of grass bent flat beneath the flow. “It’s the river,” I call to a confused dog walker who sees me prostrate on the grass, pointing to what she sees as nothing but turf. Unreassured, she hurries by.Further down it reaches the path and the edge of the beech wood, where it quickens its pace and washes the chalk clean. By the time it reaches the lane and the storm drains it’s a fugitive river once more, the very ephemera of water.During snowfall the flow melts away the crust to reveal a dark and life-sustaining pool and I’ve seen it draw in the birds of the white farmland: redpoll, mistle thrush and, once, a woodcock. But today it runs for the last few metres along the road and pools beside a farm gate. It has one last purpose left in it: a goldfinch drinks from its edge.