It felt like April Fools’ Day had come early. An email arrived out of the blue from the dating app Happn telling me I was the most popular guy in London. “Enter your bank details below,” I was expecting it to read, “and we will send you a million pounds!”As phishing scams go, it was convincing. They even got a journalist to phone me up and ask what it felt like to be so popular. Then, a few days later, an article appeared in the London Evening Standard, with the headline: “I Happn to be London’s hottest man.” Next to a photo of me.I’m not that guy. Surely that guy works in the City and wears nice suits and lives in a luxury penthouse, like the chiselled chap in that American Psycho property commercial. That’s what eligible bachelors are like, right? They don’t live in a shared house in Hackney and write about buildings.I joined Happn last spring, after cajoling from friends who were already using it, one of whom found their soulmate on it, which gave me some hope (although they’re anomalies: for their first date they met in the middle of a field at night). Its selling point over rival Tinder is that it shows you other users whom you’ve passed within 250 metres of, so, in theory, you can find that woman with whom you locked eyes on the train before she disappeared. But that doesn’t happen. Instead, you hook up with people who live a couple of streets away. So it’s convenient – and, at a time when none of us know our neighbours, it’s surely good for building a sense of community, right?It was a strange feeling, knowing that I was going home on the tube with a million Londoners that night, my little head on page 13 resting in their weary laps. By the time I got in, the article was already doing the rounds on Twitter and my phone was alight with messages – not from beautiful women declaring unrequited love, but wall-to-wall crying-with-laughter emojis from my friends. And an email from my mum.Over the next 24 hours, various media outlets got in touch, all asking the same thing: “What is the secret to your super-hot profile?” A gentlemen’s style website wanted to know about my grooming regime (sorry, just soap); a TV producer asked if I had considered presenting (yes, give me a documentary series!); another site asked the trick to taking good photos (iPhone?). There was a flurry of new Instagram followers and Facebook friend requests from bikini-clad women, and some managed to track me down on another dating app. Then a “live news channel for millennials” wanted me to go on air to share dating tips.I told them I had no idea. My profile is blank, apart from a few pictures. I write for a living, but the thought of selling myself in a couple of snappy sentences filled me with dread. “Olly, 32, architecture critic” is all I could muster.Maybe it’s the cat, I thought. One of my pictures has an alarmed-looking feline in the foreground, and who on the internet doesn’t like pictures of cats? Or perhaps it’s the alluring architecture. In another photo, I’m strolling by the pool of John Lautner’s Sheats-Goldstein house in Los Angeles, the ultimate modernist bachelor pad, as featured in Charlie’s Angels and The Big Lebowski. Maybe they think that’s where I live, and they’ll get to come and hang out on the triangular leather bed and play with the sliding glass walls? In my final picture, I’m all splayed out, collapsed on a concrete slab in the Mojave desert, as if awaiting sacrifice on an altar. Maybe I’ve subconsciously attracted a gaggle of death cultists?The surreal accolade came as even more of a surprise because I’ve only been on a handful of online dates. This time last year, I’d always met partners like people are apparently supposed to – at college or through friends. As a journalist, I meet new people all the time, but you can’t hit on someone when you’re interviewing them. The thought of meeting a stranger with the express hope of fancying each other was mildly terrifying.But it’s great. It’s liberating going for a drink with someone with whom you have no shared history, no friends in common, indeed no reason why you should ever meet them at all. I’ve met a biker and a banker, a fashion designer and a curator, an architect (of course) and someone who works for a famous chef – so I got a lovely meal out of it, too.One woman I met told me that I don’t do the normal dating etiquette. I had suggested we meet up after we had exchanged a couple of lines. Apparently, you are supposed to play it cool, lest you seem too keen. But I figure there’s no point in faffing about with pleasantries: you can only tell if you are going to get on with someone if you meet them. Some of my favourite people in the world are terrible at texting; likewise, some of the wittiest texters are the most awkward in real life.Then there’s the eternal dilemma of where to go. Should you try to impress them on the first date with somewhere swanky, or kooky, or plain unremarkable, so you don’t look as if you’re trying too hard? I could take you for a drink at the top of one of London’s evil-but-glamorous towers and bore you to tears with its convoluted planning history. Or we could wander the post-industrial wastes of the Lea Valley and meditate on the future of the Olympic legacy. I favour the pub. Or going for a walk. I invited one woman to see the Turner prize, but she didn’t turn up, so I was left to contemplate Anthea Hamilton’s big golden bum on my own.• Oliver Wainwright is still single. Find him on Twitter and Instagram