If you have a face like mine, you don’t tend to trouble your phone with too many selfies. I’ve taken two this year: one with a dead whale and another to prove I had reached the remote Scottish island of St Kilda. Both were awful enough to make me feel quite anxious. Now a survey by Dr Miles Richardson, head of psychology at Derby University, has found that smartphone “addicts” are more anxious than nature lovers and take seven times more selfies.The study, which will be presented at the Nature Connections conference this week, seems designed to make nature lovers feel better about themselves. Technology’s contribution to our alienation from the natural world deserves to be seriously investigated – but to hold up phones in opposition to wildlife just reinforces tired stereotypes.Richardson recognises this and stresses that “technology can help deliver nature into people’s everyday lives”. Millions of people with only a passing interest in the non-human world post wildlife encounters on social media.My Twitter feed today features baby hedgehogs drinking milk, meadows where curlew chicks are hiding, a southern marsh orchid and a painted lady. All very lovely, but not as delightful as the dewy grass weighed down by last night’s rain and the smell of a freshly cut hawthorn hedge when I walked my children to nursery this morning.Feline lazyI received various disparaging tweets about my looks when I once dared to imagine the world without any pet cats. (I concluded that we’d create different problems by acquiring unsuitable alternatives such as tamarin monkeys.)Rather than neuter all cats to eventually stop their slaughter of an estimated 55m British birds each year, John Bradshaw, author of Cat Sense, has a better suggestion: breed out the domestic cat’s hunting instinct. Bradshaw told the Cheltenham Science Festival that there is only a small group of genes responsible for the hunting proficiency of cats and there is already evidence of genetic variation in individual hunting abilities. So it’s possible.He admits, however, that if we can select for a hopeless hunting instinct we are likely to lose the essence of cat. And if cat-lovers can’t adore fat, clumsy, lazy cats, we’ll be back with an exotic-pet scenario – everyone will be buying wolverines or ferrets instead.What’s in a word? I’ve been ploughing through the memoirs of Compton Mackenzie, an author dimly remembered for Whisky Galore. His autobiography runs to 10 volumes and their fate, languishing in the dustiest of secondhand bookshops, is a useful corrective for any writer hoping for immortality.There are some fine words among “Monty’s” four million, however. In Volume 7 he recalls the sensation caused in 1933 over a newspaper debate about the 10 most beautiful words in the English language.An unnamed American poet had chosen: dawn, hush, lullaby, murmuring, tranquil, mist, luminous, chime, golden, melody. Monty opted for: carnation, azure, peril, moon, forlorn, heart, silence, shadow, April, apricot.Can we separate words from their associations? Are there beautiful words with unpleasant meanings? I like the word serendipity but so does everyone; more unusual, perhaps, is my fondness for gloomy and pigeon. Monty’s list is a reminder that some words are better than others: why should you face danger when you could face peril?