Luiza Vassão, Ubatuba, Brazil. Birthday: 2 DecemberI’m celebrating my 16th with a “lual” – a beach party – with family and friends. We’ll play electronic, funk and sertaneja, dance, have some drinks and watch the sun go down. It will be cool.It’s been a good year for me personally: I can do things I wasn’t allowed to do before. My mother never let me go to the beach with my friends, but now I am 16, I have more freedom. But I have to earn her confidence with the way I behave. Many girls get pregnant young, or use drugs and cause trouble. My mother is worried I will get involved, but I want to go to college and study economics, move to Rio, São Paulo or one of the other cities, where there are more opportunities. I’d like to have a good life, with a good salary and a good husband, and to build a family. But it’s difficult.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Luiza Vassão. Photograph: Tommaso Protti for the GuardianLuiza Vassão celebrates in Brazil. Photograph: Tommaso Protti / The Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Luiza and her friend choose the dresses for the party Photograph: Tommaso Protti for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Luiza Photograph: Tommaso Protti for the GuardianI dropped out of school last year because I couldn’t keep up. I’m intelligent, but a lot has happened in my life. I lost my father when I was nine and I had to change school. It was a pain inside me that I never knew existed and it affected my studies. I must now make up for lost time.Brazil is beautiful, but there are also many bad things, like corruption and violence, particularly against women. Another worry is I don’t know what the future of our planet will be after Obama. I’m terrified there might be a world war, because so many people are unhappy with the way things are.My generation is a really cool generation. We have the internet for communication and research, and cellphones. I got one for my birthday last year. It’s my addiction; I depend on it. I wake up with it and am on it all day. But I think my grandparents had more fun. We sit around all day on the internet; they played with kites. I have never done that.Interview: Daniela Gross and Jonathan WattsMaria Louise Hecky-Andersen, Haderslev, Denmark, 14 August      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Maria Louise Hecky-Andersen celebrates her 16th with friends, flags and beer in Denmark. Photograph: Marie Hald for the GuardianTurning 16 means you can officially buy alcohol and get into clubs, but since most Danes have been doing this for years anyway, it’s not a huge deal. I can also get rid of my child’s bus pass and library card. But other than that? It’s life as normal.We have a big celebration when we get confirmed in Denmark, aged 13 or 14. I wore a white dress and had an enormous cake, and there was a gift list. This is about tradition more than religion, and it’s the biggest party most people ever have, including weddings. But the “sweet 16” hasn’t quite reached Scandinavia. It’s tradition to do 16 shots to celebrate turning 16. Mum had a bag ready in case I needed to throw up      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Maria Louise Hecky-Andersen Photograph: Marie Hald for the GuardianMy parents are divorced, which is pretty normal here, so I had one party at my dad’s and another at my mum’s. There are a few birthday customs we stuck to, such as flying the Danish flag and eating kagemand – this is a cake in the shape of a girl or a boy, depending on your gender, and everyone screams as you cut its head off. It’s also tradition to do 16 shots to celebrate turning 16. I felt terrible after this, but Mum had a bag ready in case I needed to throw up. Then we ate pizza and went for a walk with a few beers.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Maria Louise Hecky-Andersen drinks her traditional shots. Photograph: Marie Hald for the GuardianMaria Louise Hecky-Andersen celebrates her 16th with friends, flags, beer and shots. Photograph: Marie Hald / The GuardianMy friends and I have a lot of freedom to go out whenever we want, so there’s not much to rebel against. My parents’ only rules are that I never walk home alone and text them where I’m going. I don’t have a curfew, but they like me to be back by 3am (this is early: some friends don’t have to be home until 5am).It’s good being a teenager here. Because we have the welfare state, we’re all looked after. I see refugees coming to my town from Syria and realise how lucky I am. It’s not just that I have a roof over my head and clean water and clothes to wear; I also have pizza and beer and new clothes. And I got an iPhone for my birthday. I’d say I’m a pretty happy Dane right now.I still worry about the future, like studying something for ages, then realising I don’t want to pursue that as my career, or not getting a good job. But Danes often study until their late 20s and have kids or marry much later, so I don’t have to think about any of that yet. I just get to be a teenager.Interview by Helen RussellNickson Avaye, Kampala, Uganda; 21 September      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nickson Avaye (in white shirt) celebrates with a cake – along with a second cake for Sundey, one of the orphans he lives with. Photograph: Will Boase for the GuardianThere is one cake for Nickson Avaye (in white shirt) and a second cake for Sundey, one of the orphans he lives with. Photograph: Will Boase / The GuardianI’ve never celebrated my birthday before. I’m from Kitale, a village in Kenya, and birthdays aren’t a big thing; lots of people don’t even know their exact age. At the moment, though, I’m in Uganda with my sister, her friend, and seven orphans, and we’re going to have a dinner at home. We’ll have cake and dance.Life here is very different from life in the village. When I was little, I looked for firewood, did chores or looked after the cows. From when I was 10 until I was 14, I dug in our family’s farm. We children did the digging, and our parents did the planting. If my sisters were there, it was more fun, but mostly it was terrible. I’d be tired, and my parents would force me to dig. We planted beans and maize, and that’s what we ate. Sometimes we had a bit extra to sell, but not normally. One year, the harvest was bad and we got really hungry.My parents sent me to Nairobi to stay with my eldest sister, so I could go to school there. It was the first time I’d left home, and the bus took a whole day. I arrived in shorts; it was so embarrassing, because everyone was wearing trousers. People laughed at me when I got off the bus. I have to work hard, because I want to be an engineer or pilot, and help my mum and dad      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nickson Avaye’s birthday celebrations Photograph: Will Boase for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nickson with his sister Photograph: Will Boase for the GuardianLife was tough in the big city. People are very sharp. Once, my sister sent me to the shop with 1,000 shillings (£7.50) and someone stole it right out of my hand. She was so angry. Another time, I saw the police shoot three young guys dead in the street, because they’d robbed a shop. I hid, because you never know if they’ll come and shoot you, too. The police should have just taken those guys to jail; they were just struggling to survive, like all of us.My sister, who is a pawnbroker, couldn’t earn enough to look after both of us, so in February my parents sent me to my other sister, who’s a teacher in Kampala. Her friend Lara, the one who took on all the orphans, recently set up a charity called Fund A Future Uganda, and through that I got a sponsor who pays for my education. It’s much quieter here, and people are more respectful. There aren’t any drunk people or nightclubs stopping me from sleeping and studying. I have to work hard, because I want to be an engineer or pilot, and help my mum and dad.I don’t think I’ll ever live in the village again, but I love visiting and seeing my friends. They got so excited the last time I went back. I gave them tips about operating in the city. You have to be keen, or robbers might kill you – that’s what I told them. And no shorts, of course.Interview: Ruth MacleanHalil Erdem, Izmir, Turkey; 25 October      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Halil (in blue T-shirt) took his friends to a Turkish cake shop and then to the waterfront to celebrate his 16th. ‘My mum and dad are going to pay me back,’ he says. Photograph: Bradley Secker for the GuardianTo celebrate, I’m going to a pastane, a cake shop, with my friends after school. My mum and dad are going to pay me back. Izmir is a very relaxed place: from my classrooms, you can see the sea. After school, we often go down to the waterfront and mess around. As a gift, I was given money by my extended family, about 200 lira (£45).Turning 16 is not a big milestone here: all the important things, like driving a car, come when you’re 18. But I do have an important decision to make: at the end of July, I have to choose what specialism I’ll pursue at school. This affects your whole career and future. Most students want to be an engineer or a doctor, but I don’t know what I want to do. My dad’s a taxi driver and I don’t want to do that. I want to go to university. I guess I’ll decide based on my scores later in the year. I wish you didn’t have to choose at such a young age.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Halil (in grey jumper) and friend. Photograph: Bradley Secker for the GuardianHalil took his friends to a Turkish cake shop and then to the waterfront. Photograph: Bradley Secker / The Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Halil near the seafront Photograph: Bradley Secker for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Halil and friends Photograph: Bradley Secker for the GuardianMy hobbies are mainly sports and games: I just started playing basketball. I also like chess. I love to watch football, too: my team is Galatasaray, but I also follow the English game. In Izmir, we were lucky: on the night of the attempted coup in July, we didn’t hear warplanes or gunfireTechnology has become so important. I have a mobile phone, a laptop and a games console. But these things are all so expensive because they are imported. And students here don’t usually get part-time jobs the way they do in other countries, so I rely on my mum and dad for money.Politics in Turkey can be crazy, but I’m not really interested. In Izmir, we were lucky: on the night of the attempted coup in July, we didn’t hear warplanes or gunfire, unlike my cousins in Istanbul.In general, I’m pretty optimistic and positive. My hopes for the future are simply to get a good job, an OK house and to have good friends.Interview: Laura PitelYulia Tarasova, Mariupol, Ukraine; 3 September      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Life on the Ukrainian frontline means Yulia Tarasova (in white T-shirt) can now recognise which weapons are being fired just by the sound they make. Photograph: Magdalena Chodownik for the GuardianI live in a high-rise, Soviet-era apartment block in a big government-controlled industrial port city in the east. It’s pretty close to the front line. I’ve tried to make my room more interesting with posters, photos, nice design touches. My parents divorced when I was two months old, and I don’t have any contact with my father. I don’t have brothers or sisters, but I’m very close to my mum. My perfect party would be a trip to another country with friends – that would be amazing, because I’ve never been abroad      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Yulia Tarasova Photograph: Magdalena Chodownik for the GuardianYulia Tarasova celebrates with a picnic. Photograph: Magdalena Chodownik / The GuardianFor my birthday, she bought me a voucher to do a modelling photoshoot. She knows I’m into this, although I probably can’t model professionally due to my height. My perfect party would be a trip to another country with my friends – that would be amazing, because I’ve never been abroad. For now, we’ll just have a picnic. Turning 16 and 18 are big days for young Ukrainians, but families don’t always mark them with a special tradition. Some celebrate at home with family, others go to a cafe.I love languages: English is my favourite subject, and I like reading and watching films in the original language. One of my biggest dreams is to visit America, maybe even live there one day. Without English, this would be an impossible dream.My city isn’t the best place for me; many people here don’t want to improve their lives. It’s been difficult growing up here, plus I’m a bit of an outsider. My country faces a lot of problems: homophobia and ethnic tensions are big challenges, and we have corruption, propaganda and war. Fortunately, all my relatives are alive and my home wasn’t damaged by fighting, but I know lots of people who lost close ones, lost their homes, their jobs. It was strange when I realised I could work out which weapons were firing just by the sound, as was seeing people go about their lives despite the fighting. Most of us now aren’t even afraid. Artillery strikes have exploded close to my school and lessons weren’t even cancelled.Every year I tell myself, “OK, it’s a new year, I have to change something.” And I really try to do something that makes my life better, that changes it. But, unfortunately, so far nothing’s changed. It’s a big fear for me that nothing will.Interview: Jack LoshDelia Curtis, Indiana, US; 16 October      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Delia Curtis split the cost of her sweet 16 party with her father. She hired a hall, DJ and photo booth; she even bought her own cake Photograph: Tim Klein for the GuardianDelia Curtis split the cost of her sweet 16 party with her father. Photograph: Tim Klein / The GuardianIt’s a family tradition to go camping in the woods for my birthday, but this year, I thought it would be cool to throw a big “sweet 16” party. I had 100 people. I hired a hall, a DJ and a photo booth. I bought cake and finger food.I wore a black-and-gold dress. A girl on my school volleyball team wore it for her homecoming last year, and let me buy it off her pretty cheap. I work part-time at a pizza joint, and while my family’s financially stable, the party was expensive, so Dad and I split it. We’ve spent about $400 each. The only other big parties I’ve attended were quinceañeras: lots of people at school are of Mexican descent and have a big party for their 15th. My school is diverse and I really like that.Turning 16 feels like you get more freedom and responsibility. My parents are separated and I’m not that close to my mum any more, but I have a good relationship with my dad, and he trusts me. I’ve always been more mature than the people around me. I can get my driving licence this year, so I’m saving for a car. I’m excited, because I’m sick and tired of asking everyone for rides or walking. Where I live is quite suburban. It’s a block from school and a few blocks from work. The main thing to do here when you’re bored is go out and get food. It gets brutally, bone-chillingly cold in the winter, so we’re often indoors then.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Delia Curtis Photograph: Tim Klein for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Delia Curtis Photograph: Tim Klein for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Delia Curtis Photograph: Tim Klein for the GuardianI’m online a lot, mainly Twitter and Snapchat. My dad has a Snapchat, but I’m not friends with him. I have a close group of friends, and whenever we have sleepovers, we’re all just sitting there on our phones. Sometimes you look up and it can feel sad that we’re not laughing or talking. I wish it was different, but it’s just the way it is.I’d have liked to have voted in this election, but Indiana always goes Republican. My older brother didn’t want to vote, which I didn’t like, and Dad didn’t make it in time. But my grandmother wanted to see a woman president. What upsets me about Donald Trump is that his demeanour causes violence and fear. His presidency will change this country and I’m scared to see it.I hope to go to college and do something in the medical field. I’m proud of where I’m from, but I’ve never travelled farther than Chicago. I’d love to go somewhere tropical – maybe the Caribbean or Australia. I want to get out and see the world.Interview: Candice PiresMohammed Omran Injeela, Douma, Syria; 6 November      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mohammed Omran Injeela shares cake and fruit juice with his family; he copes with the stress of daily bombardment by hanging out with friends and playing computer games - so long as the local generator is working. Photograph: Firas al-Abdullah for the GuardianMohammed Omran Injeela shares cake and fruit juice with his family. Photograph: Firas al-Abdullah / The GuardianIn Syria, 16 is like any other age. You’re considered a child until you’re 18, and you live with your family until you get married or go to university. But it feels special to have been born in 2000. Many things have moved underground: my school is in a basement. During air raids, I hide in the middle of our house      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mohammed Omran Injeela Photograph: Firas al-Abdullah for the GuardianI live about six miles north-east of central Damascus. The area is controlled by groups fighting against Assad. Since October 2013, we have been under total siege by the Syrian regime. Life here is very scary, because of shelling and bombardment. Many things have moved underground to escape the bombing: my school is in a basement. When there are air raids, I hide in the middle of our house until it’s over. I try to cope with the stress by hanging out with friends and playing on the computer. When the generator is working, I like to watch wrestling on TV.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mohammed Omran Injeela shares cake and fruit juice with his family. Photograph: Firas al-Abdullah for the GuardianI remember my birthdays before the war: my family would prepare a big cake with candles and we’d eat pizza and fizzy drinks. This year, I’ll celebrate with my family as usual, but we will just have a small cake and some fruit juice. Even a tiny cake costs about 2,500 Syrian pounds (about £9.50). I won’t get any other presents.My plan is to finish my studies and get a degree, then I hope to work as a trader in a big sweet shop. I dream of owning a farm, my own car and house. Or perhaps I will leave Syria and move to Saudi Arabia. My parents and I went to the holy city of Mecca before the war. I was amazed by the luxury.My big hope is that this year, my life, and life for everyone here, gets better. I hate Assad: he kills civilians just to stay in power. I could not accept him staying as president, but I would accept an end to the fighting to stop the killing. I feel hopeful. I think it won’t be too long now.Interview: Laura PitelYuan Rensheng, Hangzhou, China; 28 October      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Yuan Rensheng celebrates with his teachers and classmates. Photograph: Eric Leleu for The Guardian for the GuardianMy birthday wish is to be more independent; I don’t want to keep relying on my parents. I hope I’ll be able to push on with my studies, and have a good relationship with my parents and classmates. Turning 16 should mean I’ll have more rights, but I’m not exactly sure which ones they are. It’s pretty much the same as any other birthday.Hangzhou is a beautiful city. The economy here is developed; the G20 summit was held here earlier this year. I am going to celebrate my 16th with my classmates and teachers. They will write cards to me and sing me a birthday song – just a normal party, pretty much like anyone else’s.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Yuan Rensheng celebrates with his teachers and classmates Photograph: Eric Leleu for The Guardian for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Yuan Rensheng celebrates with his teachers and classmates Photograph: Eric Leleu for The Guardian for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Compared with other countries, Chinese teenagers pay more attention to their schoolwork,’ Yuan Rensheng says. Photograph: Eric Leleu for The Guardian for the GuardianYuan Rensheng: ‘Compared with other countries, Chinese teenagers pay more attention to their schoolwork.’ Photograph: Eric Leleu / The GuardianI feel happy about being a teenager. Our generation is much more open-minded than the previous one. We pay close attention to all the latest trends. I am looking forward to being treated like an adult, but right now I am still a student and my first priority is to study. Compared with other countries, I think Chinese teenagers pay more attention to their school work and are more focused.I want to be a computer whiz in the future. My dream is to study computer science at Zhejiang University. When I was a secondary-school student, I went to a technology festival and it made me interested in that kind of thing. I think it’s pretty cool. Writing code helps train your sense of logic. It stimulates your brain to come up with different and unusual ideas. I think the whole process of programming is fascinating.My parents are ordinary workers. When I was a kid, they’d give me birthday presents, but these days I don’t expect them to give me anything. I am the only child in the family. They respect me and give me space to pursue my dreams.Interview: Christy Yao Caitlin Phippen, Swansea, Wales; 30 September      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   For her 16th, Caitlin Phippen had a sleepover with 15 friends, taking over all the bedrooms in the family home. Photograph: Nick Shand for the GuardianWhen it’s a family birthday, we always do the presents in the morning and have a nice breakfast, then have a mini tea party in the afternoon. This year, I’m having a sleepover with some of my closest friends. There’ll be 16 of us, including me, so we’re taking over all the bedrooms. Me and mum have ordered a load of funny games online, and we’ve got silly things to put on our faces. My nana’s farm is next door, and she has a huge trampoline, so we’ll probably walk over there. I haven’t asked for anything special present-wise, because I know it’s going to cost a lot with all the food and things for the party; it would be nice just to have a bit of money to buy some new clothes. I guess it’s a milestone, turning 16. You can smoke, but I’ve never thought that was a good ideaI guess it’s a milestone, turning 16. You can smoke, but I’ve never thought that was a good idea. I’m excited about getting my national insurance number, though. I’ve just applied for some part-time jobs. And I’m getting closer to being able to drive, which is important where we are. It’s no fun walking down the hill in the rain trying to get a lift.I do think it would be good if 16-year-olds could vote. We’ve just done a group presentation in our English class about all the propaganda around the EU referendum. I would have preferred to stay – I’m nervous about what’s going to happen now.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Caitlin Phippen Photograph: Nick Shand for the GuardianFor her 16th, Caitlin Phippen had a sleepover with 15 friends. Photograph: Nick Shand / The Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Caitlin Phippen and friends Photograph: Nick Shand for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Caitlin Phippen and friends Photograph: Nick Shand for the GuardianI wouldn’t say I’m a big worrier, but there are things I get anxious about. I worry about exams, because I struggle to write neatly, and I work myself up over it. Right now, I’m trying to revise for my maths GCSEs in November, so I do around an hour and a half of revision every other day, then I’ll step it up to two hours.I love musical theatre, and I go to drama school twice a week; I was the Artful Dodger when we did Oliver! earlier this year. I’d love to be an actor, professionally, but it’s really hard to get into, so I’m going to get a back-up plan. I’d like to be a human rights lawyer. I got selected as head girl at the end of last term, and one of the things I help organise are meetings about our rights, called the Big Conversation. We talk about things like our right to be safe and the right to privacy.I think one of the things I’d like to change is how people judge others so quickly. I have a friend who wants to be a girl, and I know it was really hard for him sometimes, not knowing what people thought of him. He’s spoken to the school and they’ve been really good about supporting him with what he chooses to wear.Interview: Rosie Ifould