“If you just relax, you’ll float. Everyone floats,” Monica, the instructor, says calmly while I’m flapping my extremities in sheer terror. I’m in the deep end of a Los Angeles swimming pool in May, and I’m here to learn how to swim.Swimming is not something I do, nor am I particularly fond of being in the water unless I’m in a bubble bath. Why? Drowning. Choking. Sinking to the bottom. I just can’t figure out why anyone would willfully put themselves in a situation where they could die so easily. Why risk it? I also feel this way about skydiving, rock climbing, and unprotected sexual relations with a stranger in a truck stop bathroom. But here I am today, decidedly taking this step – or splash, if you will afford me the rhetorical indulgence.Throughout my life, curious folks have often asked about my aversion to swimming, and the conversation has inevitably turned to race. My mother-in-law’s friend once told me that she heard ‘black people’s skin was heavier, so they can’t float easily’. I’m not one to stir up trouble in a social situation. I hate squabbles, especially when relatives are involved, and there’s no way to win an argument like that. What was I supposed to do – weigh my own skin to prove her wrong? All I could do was shrug my shoulders and say, “Maybe.” My mother-in-law's friend once told me that she heard 'black people’s skin was heavier, so they can't float easily'       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   At the pool. Photograph: Maggie West for the GuardianIn truth, black people not swimming is something of a public health problem. A study by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found that 10 people die every day from drowning. Black and Hispanic youths are far more likely to drown than white kids. Seventy percent of black children cannot swim, while only 42% of white children reported a lack of swimming ability.The reason for this has nothing to do with physical differences and everything to do with lack of access. In America, swimming is not a skill we’re required to learn. It’s a privilege afforded to the fortunate souls who live near a pool or accessible natural body of water, and who can afford to pay for lessons. This excludes inner city African Americans who lack one or both of those opportunities. As I got older, not swimming fit into a comfortable cultural narrative: the black guy who can’t float I was fortunate to live in a small town in rural central California, in a middle-class military family that could afford swimming lessons. Still, I was about as unconventional as one could be in a very conservative part of the state. My Caucasian father was in the air force and my African American mother stayed at home to take care of the kids.In an effort to get me out of the house and away from the Star Trek reruns that consumed most of my time, she tried to expose me to all manner of extracurricular activities: tap dancing, racquetball, jazzercise, and, eventually, swimming. I rejected every single hobby, but especially swimming. I didn’t see the point. I didn’t like the water, and as a result I was a dodgy swimmer. I preferred spending my time on something I had a preternatural knack for: staying indoors. As I got older, not swimming fit into a comfortable cultural narrative: the black guy who can’t float. The stereotype became something of a crutch that propped me up, but also made me dependent.Then I married into a southern California family. They all swim and most of them surf, which is so far beyond my ability to comprehend that they might as well tell me they can bend spoons with their minds or communicate with dolphins. When we went on our honeymoon in Hawaii, my wife was concerned I’d have nothing to do; her childhood vacations consisted of bouncing from one body of water to another.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   In freshly purchased trunks. Photograph: Maggie West for the GuardianSwimming while black: the legacy of segregated public pools lives on I knew from the day we married that I was going to have to learn, at least so I could understand why my in-laws felt compelled to spend so much of their free time in the ocean. In the process, I thought I might better grasp what it is that keeps so many people like myself from acquiring this skill. So, on a swelteringly hot day, I drove up to the San Fernando Valley for my first swimming lesson.There’s no shortage of swimming teachers in Los Angeles. It’s a bit like working as a nanny, a personal trainer, a nutritionist, or an agent – you’re a gatekeeper for an important aspect of living in this place. Aqua Buddies refers to itself as “LA’s primer [sic] mobile swimming school” and provides “Parent & Me, Toddler Water Safety, and swim techniques for all the swim strokes”. They’ll drive to your home swimming pool, like a Postmates or Instacart for vital life skills, I guess. As one might expect, most of these classes are for children under the age of 15, so finding a course of study that wouldn’t include me wearing floaties or singing songs about water safety was difficult. The Los Angeles YMCA offered adult classes, but I was worried about being intimidated in a large public gymnasium.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An encounter with a pool noodle. Photograph: Maggie West for the GuardianFinally, I found Emily Cohen, an instructor who operates a school called the Water Whisperer out of a pool in Sherman Oaks, an affluent community in the San Fernando Valley. The name alone sounded comforting, presumably because it reminded me of the Robert Redford film The Horse Whisperer, which always seems to put me to sleep whenever it’s on cable. The Water Whisperer website claimed a 95% success rate and explicitly mentioned their ability to train adults to overcome their aquatic phobia. Plus, it was about 20 minutes from my house.•••The morning of my first lesson, I meet Cohen at her pool. She’s open and non-threatening like a kindergarten teacher, but also possesses the kind of stern, paternal qualities that make you not want to disappoint her. She describes her method as “developmental. It’s layered, and it’s structured. Little kids feel safe when they know what’s coming next. There’s also original songs, puppets”. The only thing more frightening than drowning is puppets, but I was assured there would be none during my lesson.She asks me why I don’t swim. I mention my fear, and that because so many black people don’t swim, it’s made it easier for me to avoid learning. She’s not surprised. In fact, she says the majority of adults who come to her are African American. “They say they had a bad experience or the family didn’t have money. If they came from urban areas like New York City, it just wasn’t a big thing or their parents couldn’t afford lessons.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   On the edge. Photograph: Maggie West for the GuardianAfter stripping down to my freshly purchased trunks, I carefully walk around the pool slowly, so as not to fall and sink. I begin my exercises with Emily’s assistant, Monica, to get me comfortable with breathing techniques. “When you go down, try to keep your eyes open as long as you can. Go in slowly, and remember, I’m right here if you need me,” she says reassuringly. I suck in as much air as I can and submerge my head. I get a solid five seconds in and bolt back up before I run out of oxygen, having felt the cold specter of death nipping at my heels. Periodically during the breathing exercises, Monica puts a hand on my shoulder and offers words of encouragement. “You’re doing great,” she says. “You’re a natural.” Here I am, a 31-year-old breathing prodigy. Who knew I had this talent inside of me? Cohen describes the three steps of overcoming fear of water as “giving a high five, being brave and doing it anyway”. The fourth should be “receiving appeals to one’s vanity”, because that always works on me. “You are literally the best swimmer I have ever seen,” they should say. “Is that Dave Schilling in the pool or Kevin Costner from Waterworld?” I’d never stop swimming. I have an ass for boxing people out in basketball, not for swimming The floating exercises rock my confidence. Monica can’t seem to get me to flatten out my body enough to practice kicking. “It looks like I’m not flat because of how big my butt is,” I say. Fortunately, they laugh rather than asking me nicely to get out of the pool and walk home. That should be another urban myth about why black people don’t swim. Their asses are just too big. I have an ass for boxing people out in basketball, not for swimming. I’m assured that it’s not my ass that’s keeping me from floating. It’s my fear. I’m too tense and not allowing the physics to sort themselves out. I’m sinking because I expect to sink or something like that. It’s my bloody death wish that’s keeping me from floating!      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A 31-year-old prodigy. Photograph: Maggie West for the GuardianThen, the stern-parent thing with Emily kicks in and I decide I don’t want to let her down. On my next attempt, I breathe more slowly. I calm down enough to prevent my fear of the water swallowing me up from taking over, and it occurs to me that I’ve probably been overthinking this my entire life. I’ve been so worried about how I look without a shirt on, whether or not my skin is too black or too thick, and what other people think of me, that I couldn’t just engage with the task at hand. Swimming is not an intellectual exercise. It’s visceral, and bringing heavy thoughts into the pool with me isn’t helping.Finally, I float. Not for long, but I get there. I earn a few high-fives, which I relish. Our last exercise is swimming to the wall. Monica will hold my hands while I kick my way to salvation, then I’ll do it by myself, but with her hand on my back so that I know someone’s around to save me if I get overwhelmed.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   I swam, sort of. Photograph: Maggie West for the GuardianThe chef cooking his way to a cannabis revolution: 'I'm a scientist at heart' We move on to swimming the length of the pool. I get to be about 6ft away from the wall before I run out of breath and swallow a big gulp of pool water. I’d practiced breathing out of my mouth and my nose while underwater, but I had tried to do both at the same time and foolishly opened my mouth a bit too much. I don’t panic. I don’t wail or cry or moan. I just go back to it. I know that there’s someone there to help me through it.I’m winded, but I successfully complete the unassisted laps, though you can hardly call what I did a proper lap. I swam, sort of – just enough to retain my dignity. Emily and Monica tell me how great I did. Only nine more classes to go.I ask how much a further course of study would cost, and it’s not cheap. But if I ever want to feel fully a part of my new extended family, I’m going to have to do it.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Success. Photograph: Maggie West for the GuardianFor many children in nearby neighborhoods like Watts or Compton, the idea of paying for swimming lessons is something akin to a fantasy – a rite of passage for other people, not you. You’ll be told that it’s your fault, your body’s fault for being too black to float. It’s not your hair or your bones. It’s something far more insidious. It’s a system to make you feel inferior – economically and emotionally. After my lesson, I realized that I never learned to swim because I didn’t think I deserved to. The fear of not being good enough overpowered my fear of drowning. What’s the point of moping about for the rest of my life as though I can’t do something? I should be grateful that I have the time and the resources to even do this, when so many people don’t. When I came home, my wife asked me if I learned how to swim. “Not yet,” I told her. “But at least I’m trying,” which is a good start.