As the former editor of French Vogue and a fast friend of Yves Saint Laurent during his Le Sept days in the 70s, Joan Juliet Buck is a cult figure in the fashion industry. She has lived a life filled with glamour, as well as high-profile buffetings – she was dismissed from French Vogue in 2001, after seven years at the helm, for a drug problem she did not have. In the years since, she has become best-known outside of the fashion world for being the woman who interviewed Asma al-Assad, the first lady of Syria, for American Vogue in late 2010 – on the eve of the Arab Spring. In the interview, she described Asma as “glamorous, young, and very chic” and the Assad household as “wildly democratic”. It caused an understandable outcry for its soft portrayal of the Assads and put Buck, a novelist and sometime actor, in the eye of a storm.She regrets it now, of course: “I wish I had not taken the assignment, but when you’re under contract to a magazine – you accept the assignment and then you do them,” she says. Her attitude feels almost naive, coming from an era before social media opened up the industry to the world around it, and forced its insiders to better consider their decisions: “I thought I would see some really interesting ruins [Palmyra] that I would never have access to otherwise in my life,” she says, and is keen to point out that the cringe-making headline – “A rose in the desert” – was placed on her article after she submitted it.Now, six years later, Buck is back in the limelight, telling the stories she would rather focus on. Her memoir, The Price of Illusion, has just been released and tells the story of a woman growing up glamorously between Paris, London, New York and LA from the 60s to the 90s, making friends with Yves Saint Laurent, Andy Warhol and Karl Lagerfeld and working for British Vogue, Women’s Wear Daily and the New Yorker. The daughter of film producer Jules Buck (Lord Jim and What’s New Pussycat?), she was surrounded by stars from childhood: Peter O’Toole was a family friend; Hollywood film director John Huston was her godfather (his daughter Anjelica Huston became her long-time friend); and Lauren Bacall was her mother’s friend. Leonard Cohen was her friend, while Donald Sutherland was a lover.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Joan Juliet Buck (right) with Angelica Huston, 1963.Paris, arguably, shaped Buck – and, as editor of French Vogue for seven years from 1994, she shaped it. “I was hired because my first language was French,” she says with a rasp, and pull on a cigarette, down the phone from her home in New York state. She was adamant that, as an American, she needed to look the part. “There’s a funny bit in the book where I want to wear French clothes and the fashion editor says you just need a slim skirt, a Burberry, a T-shirt,” she relays. “I said, ‘That’s English’, she said, ‘Yes, but it’s very Jane Birkin, she’s a French icon …’ It becomes very clear that Paris fashion is, in fact, done by a whole bunch of foreigners. At this point they can stop bitching about an American at Vogue.”Buck says that her idea was to expand beyond the cliches of French style – the ones that are peddled around the world. She took the classics out of the magazine: “I knew that, for instance, all French women want to do is wear black sweaters and get on with it,” she says. “We’re not going to have any more black sweaters in the magazine because they have those already.” She also put a ban on fashion shoots homaging Helmut Newton – “garter belts, cigarettes, leaning against a mirror in a hotel room. French women know how to dress when they’re having sex. They need to know how to dress when they’re not having sex.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Joan Juliet Buck – Portrait for Talk Mag, 1999. Photograph: Jean-Baptiste MondinoHer reign at Vogue coincided with a change in mood in fashion – and a new generation of creatives who wanted to add a bit of youthful playfulness post-grunge. Jean Baptiste Mondino photographed models speaking on mobile phones as mobile phones were becoming popular, with the images interrupting the features in the magazine, “just as life was interrupted by cellphones.” Meanwhile, Mario Testino and a young Carine Roitfeld did a fashion shoot of white clothes, where they “photographed a lot of white clothes but they also photographed a beautiful white washing machine”.Buck left Vogue in 2001 and retreated from fashion’s front line. These days, after that Assad controversy, the 68-year-old still writes, but also acts, working with an improvisation technique first taken up to help her writing become less stiff. She works in the theatre and occasionally in film, such as 2009’s cheffing comedy-drama Julie & Julia, where her previous Parisian life came in handy. “I was a real bitch to Meryl Streep, as the horrible head of the Cordon Bleu,” she says. “It was kind of easy to summon up that character because I had been seeing that disapproving expression a lot of my life.” Paris and Buck remain the perfect pas de deux then.The Price of Illusion: A Memoir by Joan Juliet Buck is out now