A scriptwriter from Essex who has gone on to make a name for himself in Hollywood has revealed that his own violent, drug-fuelled past provided material for the plot of his new film, Urban Hymn.A coming-of-age movie that will have a gala screening in Glasgow on Friday February 19, ahead of a UK charity premiere, Urban Hymn is set during the UK’s summer riots of 2011 and tells the story of a young female offender, Jamie, and her relationships with her care worker, Kate, and her “bad girl” friend, Leanne. It features a cameo from musician Billy Bragg and is directed by Michael Caton-Jones, whose work includes the 1990 wartime bomber crew drama Memphis Belle.Sitting in one of the old cells in Latchmere House, a former detention centre in Richmond, south-west London, where some of the film was shot, writer Nick Moorcroft told the Observer: “It’s a very autobiographical story. It’s about the relationship between me and my mum. Jamie is ultimately me, and the care worker is ultimately my mum.”Jamie, played by Letitia Wright, finds herself torn between Kate (Shirley Henderson), who encourages her singing talent, and Leanne (Isabella Laughland), a vicious young offender. It’s ultimately a feelgood movie, and has won high praise from critics.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Letitia Wright plays the lead role of young offender Jamie Harrison.Growing up in Chelmsford, Essex, Moorcroft rarely attended school, and was eventually expelled for hurling a chair from a window in an argument with a teacher. His life spiralled out of control into drugs, shoplifting, stealing cars and gang-related fights. Five of his friends went to prison, one of them sentenced to 12 years for drug trafficking. “There, but for the grace of God, go I,” he said. “That’s why I wanted to write this film.”Moorcroft was about 15 when his parents separated and he went off the rails. “No other school in Essex would take me [after] a violent confrontation with a teacher.”He was home-schooled for six months by the council – “a disaster” – and was prescribed Ritalin for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, which had “a massive adverse effect … It was just like being on speed.” He turned to harder drugs – “a lot of speed, Ecstasy, LSD”.“That was a very violent period,” said Moorcroft. “One of my friends went to prison for manslaughter. In a fight in a park, he killed somebody. If we were out, there would be a violent incident.”May wants police commissioners to set up free schools for 'troubled children' His mother, a secretary, was at her wits’ end. The violence was totally alien to her, he said: “She’s a really kind woman. She’d worked for the Samaritans and in Chelmsford prison when she was younger, helping some of the inmates, teaching them English. She was confronted with her worst nightmare: a child going down exactly the same route as the people she was trying to help.”His mum eventually persuaded him to enrol in an evening acting class. “It opened me up to the arts, to all of these different emotions and experiences. I’d never even read a book.”With his mother’s help, and saved-up dole money, Moorcroft staged a play, Barbarians, by leading dramatist Barrie Keeffe. “I found his address, knocked on his door and said, ‘I’m doing a play … would you come?’ He turned up and we developed a really strong friendship. He encouraged me.”Part of the problem, said Moorcroft, had been growing up with troubled youths who had followed their elder siblings or parents into crime. “I didn’t know people who read books or who would talk to me about Dickens and Orwell or any of these great writers.”Now Moorcroft, whose film credits include St Trinian’s (2007), is working on a script for Columbia Pictures about Christian, a lion cub bought at Harrods in the 1960s; on a crime thriller for Urban Hymn’s producers; on a crime series for Sky; and on an adaptation of Noel Coward’s Blithe Spirit.Caton-Jones, whose other films include Shooting Dogs, a story of the Rwandan genocide starring John Hurt, and City by the Sea, a thriller starring Robert De Niro, responded immediately to the emotions within Moorcroft’s script. He described the screenplay as the more believable because of Moorcroft’s background, a refreshing contrast to much modern film-making , which is “a middle-class, bourgeois sport”.He added that the story “was about something, but still accessible, which I rarely find these days. Things are either so weighty that they’re tedious, or so fluffy that they’re unimportant.”