Illustrator, author and publisher Leanne Shapton grew up in Mississauga, Ontario, and attended McGill University and Pratt Institute. She has worked as art director on the New York Times op-ed page, and has contributed to Elle magazine and T: The New York Times Style Magazine. In 2003 she published her first book of drawings, Toronto. Her 2012 account of her early career as a trainee Olympic swimmer, Swimming Studies, won the 2012 National Book Critics Circle award for autobiography. Her book Women in Clothes, edited with Sheila Heti and Heidi Julavits, is out now, and her next book, Toys Talking, will be published by Particular Books in May.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 1 | BookSomething Wicked This Way ComesI’m rereading Ray Bradbury’s Something Wicked This Way Comes. I read it as a teenager and I’d forgotten what a beautiful, poetic writer Bradbury was. It’s an amazing book — complex and terrifying. I’m thinking a lot about parenthood and the passage of time right now, especially the fears of a child as compared with the fears of a parent or adult. I’ve crossed that readership meridian, and instead of relating to the children, I’m relating to the weird, sad grownups. Reading it anew is a completely different experience.2 | FoodStan’s Donuts, LA      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Breaks the ice at parties: Stan’s Donuts.Whenever I’m in LA I try to get a dozen doughnuts from Stan’s. As a Canadian, they are a part of my cultural landscape and I don’t love fancy artisanal versions. I like cop doughnuts. Stan’s makes the best of this variety, but with 50s flavours like peanut butter and banana, blueberry buttermilk, and a great maple log. They are rich, and I often wind up eating them like a box of bonbons – taking a bite of one and putting it back. They’re great to bring to a party (instead of a bottle of regifted wine, which happens more often than I’d like to admit) or if I’m meeting friends at a bar.3 | FilmMy Neighbour Totoro      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The cat bus from Studio Ghibli’s My Neighbour Totoro. Photograph: Everett/REX/ShutterstockMy three-year-old is a huge Totoro fan. A friend of hers turned her on to it, and Hayao Miyazaki films in general. I like that the story mixes darker and difficult reality with the innocence and fantasy of girlhood, and magical furry gremlins. My daughter and I dressed as Satsuki and Mei for Halloween. I’ve since become a big Studio Ghibli fan myself. I love The Wind Rises in particular, which I liken to Downton Abbey in Japan with German and Japanese aeronautical history thrown in.4 | ArtEllsworth Kelly      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ellsworth Kelly’s Green (IV.4. Green; Vert Série IV, No. 4), 1964. Photograph: © Ellsworth Kelly, all rights reserved/Stedelijk Museum AmsterdamThere is a lithograph Ellsworth Kelly made in 1964 called Green (IV.4. Green; Vert Série IV, No. 4) that is one of my favourite pieces of art and, consequently, one of my favourite shades of green. I first saw it in a Gagosian publication about the Ferus Gallery, and am on a search to find either the gallery poster for that show, or one of the 75 lithographs he made, now even more rare since his passing. It is the definition of Kelly green. David Hockney wore a jacket in this colour too.5 | UnderwearBaserange      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Subversively intimate’: A model sporting Baserange underwear.On a trip to Paris I came across the Danish/French brand Baserange. I’m constantly on the lookout for the perfect underwear and I may have finally found it. Though I’m also partial to US brand Ten Undies, I love the way Baserange shoot their underwear and clothes on women. Instead of the cheesy soft-porn style of most underwear advertising, they show pictures of models in their smalls – no airbrushing, all races, beautiful lumps and all – that feel subversively intimate and real.6 | RestaurantSuperiority Burger, New York      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Superiority Burger’s meat-free wares.Chef Brooks Headley’s vegetarian takeout joint Superiority Burger, in New York’s East Village, makes this non-vegetarian confident that vegetarianism is the future. The menu is small and prices are low. They make a sloppy Joe they call a sloppy Dave, weird, delicious salads, specials that change nightly, and great gelato, but their burger is bananas. Not literally. I think it might have some risotto in it. (It’s a secret.) They also post witty Instagram epithets and, Brooks being a former punk drummer, the music while waiting in line to order is great. I try to go once a week.7 | PlaceKing William Island, Nunavut      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   People fishing in the harbour of Gjoa Haven, King William Island. Photograph: All Canada Photos/AlamyI travelled to the Arctic this summer on assignment and fell in love with Nunavut; King William Island in particular. The island is a little larger than Jamaica, with a tiny population of 1,200 people, mostly living in Gjoa Haven, where Roald Amundsen wintered in 1904 and 1905 on his expedition to find the Northwest Passage. I was so far north, the aurora borealis was to the south in the night sky. I ate fresh Arctic char and bannock, and visited ancient Tunit dwellings. Since it was the Arctic summer, the ground wasn’t covered in ice and I got to fill my sketchbook with watercolours of the indigenous lichen, which in some cases looked like William Morris wallpaper.