   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Su Burrows confronts Philip Hammond. Footage from Sky NewsSu Burrows: I’m sorry I am going to get emotional. There are 100 people in this village currently working together, none of them agents. There is not one environmental agency officer here, they’re in an office. They need to be here, they have no idea.We have been working for 48 hours evacuating people, risking our own lives ... going into waters that would be over my head. We have had fire and rescue rescue 840 people, we have evacuated 100 houses. We need the army, we said that yesterday, you don’t take us seriously, Gold Command don’t take us seriously.What will it take for you to understand we are seriously in need? Do I need to take you right down to the end, where we need people? Do I need to do that? I am asking you what do we need to do. To tell you, to make you understand that we need the army here. We had eight police officers here last night. Eight.  Philip Hammond: What is it that you think needs doing right now? SB: We need men! PH: To do what? SB: First of all we need sandbags, we need sandbags - just let me finish - we have sandbags being delivered last night that were hijacked. PH: Let me answer that one now because I spoke to the gold commander not an hour ago and he tells me there’s a combined police and military team collecting sandbags right now ... SB: That’s the first we’ve heard, that’s the first we’ve heard. PH: I thought they’d be here by now, I spoke to him at 8 o clock, and he told me they were on their way. It’s a job that the military and the police are doing together, right now. SB: Who’s unloading them when they get here, how are they coordinating that? There’s nobody here communicating those efforts apart from us and we are not being communicated with. PH: There’ll be a military team bringing them down so I can now feed that back to the government commander. SB: You have just said, on national television - correct me if I’m wrong - that gold command has said that there is nothing that needs to be done here that they can do? PH: There’s no task here for the military immediately other than delivering sandbags. SB: I’ll tell you what our team can do, that we have coordinated. We have road closures that we are managing ourselves because the police can’t manage it - not the police, we’re directing the police. We are directing the parking of the royal borough where they need to manage traffic.  We are telling them where to close the roads. We are managing the rotas at the end of every road telling them where they can and cannot go. Why is the military not doing this? Why is the EA not doing this? These guys have not slept for four weeks, we are tired, we need people. PH: I understand that but you also do have that critical local knowledge. You understand the situation on the ground in a way that people coming in from outside won’t. We can provide additional manpower but please understand ...  SB: It’s too late. PH: ... Please understand. I can provide the manpower, I can provide to the Gold Commander in charge, to the civil authorities that are in charge, what I cannot do is just impose the military. The military are there to provide support. We’ve got 1600 soldiers and sailors on standby ready to move as soon they are needed, and they have been out, building sandbag walls and defences. SB: All we wanted is half a dozen. It’s been known across the press for the last 48 hours who’s been in control here, we have not had any communication. I can tell you Dave Francis, Graham Sinclair, Colin Raynor and myself are coordinating over 100 volunteers. The EA have not spoken to us, we have not had Gold Command come down here. What I suggest is that gold command move from Tinkers Lane to Wraysbury primary school where they are most needed, they can see, and they can act far more quickly. We don’t need 1,600 troops, we need, probably, 50. PH: Right, why don’t you and I, go and have a chat with the gold commander right now. SB: Good idea. Great stuff. PH: And bring Colin along as well, why don’t we go and do something practical sorted out on the ground. SB: Thank you very much. Sky News presenter: it takes a conversation like that to get stuff sorted out, it’s a huge sense of frustration for people. PH: Well thats why I’m here.