The photographer Ray Rathborne, who has died aged 73, was driven by a search for perfection that occasionally tested the patience of those who worked with him but produced some memorable images, including covers for Time and Radio Times and a powerful poster campaign for the Salvation Army. Later he turned to cinematography and directed commercials for clients such as British Leyland, Guinness and Land Rover, often on expensive shoots in faraway locations.Ray’s famous photograph for the Salvation Army campaign in 1967 featured a peak-capped volunteer holding a small child in a blanket next to the words: “Now will you care?” A 1969 Radio Times cover introduced a striking new Doctor Who, Jon Pertwee, with his black and red cape flowing, eyes bulging and hands moving towards the camera, while his Time cover for a 1983 feature on the tribes of Britain showcased a Mohican-haired “punk”, hands on hips, in ripped T-shirt and leather accoutrements.  Ray Rathborne’s image for a Salvation Army campaign of 1967Ray’s pictures were made rather than taken: not so much products of Henri Cartier-Bresson’s “decisive moment” as of many unsatisfactory moments when some aspect or other of the image in his viewfinder didn’t please him. It might be the light or the composition, too much movement – or too little. John Chillingworth, who began his career in the more carefree documentary traditions of Picture Post, thought that Ray’s meticulous picture-making “came from something deep inside him, something that translated into his idea of perfection”.In journalism as well as in advertising, his dedication to the perfect had remarkable results. In the winter of 1976-77 we visited India together on a couple of assignments for the Sunday Times: the first on the country’s railways, then still mainly steam-powered; the second on the “eye camps”, the tented operating theatres that toured rural India, where near-blind villagers queued to have their cataracts removed. Ray took an assistant with him as well as a bewildering heap of equipment over which the assistant would stand guard in turbulent bazaars and railway stations. It was the opposite of how photo-reportage is meant to be – unobtrusive and quick – but out of it came a series of painterly images that dignified rather than disguised the reality.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Devil Punk, a Time magazine cover, from the Tribes of Britain series, 1983. Photograph: Ray RathborneAn only child, Ray was born in Trealaw in the Rhondda valley and grew up in Hammersmith – his parents moved to London after his father, a lorry driver, got a job with Ford’s at Dagenham. He left school at 15 and, gripped by a passion for photography, began work as a freelance assistant to photographers such as Chillingworth and James Mortimer, who mixed editorial and commercial work.Like every assistant he worked as a general dogsbody, carrying bags and setting up lights, but he soon began to be noticed for his clever anticipation of what equipment would be needed, as well as his ability to calm and charm the subjects of portraits. When John Hedgecoe was asked to photograph the Queen in profile for a new series of stamps, it was Ray who went with him to Buckingham Palace.Ray’s big break came during a visit to New York, when he was hired as an assistant to Richard Avedon, then near the peak of his celebrity as a fashion and portrait photographer. The experience with Avedon made him confident enough to set up as a photographer in his own right on his return to London, where he established his first studio in St John’s Wood.For a time he shot fashion pictures for the Observer and a few features for the Sunday Times, but it was already clear that advertising offered a far more lucrative career and one to which his technical gifts were well suited.Money from his advertising work paid for an office in London, a succession of powerful cars and a house in the Wiltshire village of Lacock, where the pioneer photographer Henry Fox Talbot had lived and died.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Grease Monkeys from the Indian Railways series, 1977. Photograph: Ray RathborneLatterly Ray lived in the Roseland peninsula, Cornwall, in a house surrounded by olive trees that he had expensively imported on the grounds that if he could not live in St Tropez (he said his French wasn’t up to it), St Tropez could come to him.Ray was at his most confident behind a camera – in other situations he had a hesitant charm. He never married, though female partners came and went and he remained close to most of them. He doted on his terrier, Poppy, and spent many thousands on the operations that kept her alive. His friends remember him for his loyalty, generosity and sense of fun.• Ray Rathborne, photographer, born 19 September 1943; died 13 February 2017