Hearthstone cheaters: all that bad karma is coming back to bite.Security researchers Symantec report that cybercriminals are disguising malware as cheating add-ons for Blizzard’s wildly popular collectible card game.Software which claims to be able to provide help in playing matches, win games, or even magic up the in-game currencies, gold and dust, from thin air, can present tempting downloads. But in fact, some of those apps are designed to steal passwords, spy through webcams, and even mine bitcoin using the victim’s computer.Some of the malware Symantec found makes claims that are simply impossible to fulfil. The company reports one such app, “Hearthstone Hack Tool v2.1”, which promises to be able to “hack” Blizzard’s servers and give players unlimited resources in the game.The developers pitch is vague on how the tool is supposed to work: “After a few months of brainstorming and figuring out the system that Blizzard is using on developing one of their latest online games, Hearthstone, our team of developers got into this and managed to create a very useful tool that will definetly [sic] make this game easier for you, in terms of gold and dust spending”, they write. Symantec is clearer: “Such applications are a total scam; they do not work.”But some apps are worse than simply making false promises. One, called Trojan.Coinbitclip by Symantec, pretends to be a gold- and dust-hacking tool, but actually overwrites bitcoin addresses with its own, attempting to steal the cryptocurrency from users.Even apps which promise to do easily manageable tasks aren’t always safe. Deck trackers, such as Hearthstone Tracker, are a popular fringe-legal add-on for the game. Although technically banned by Blizzard, they allow users to see which cards they have already drawn, and so more easily track what’s left in their deck.But malware disguises itself as them too: in December, Symantec found that “attackers disguised Backdoor.Breut as one of these add-ons by using the file name Hearthstone Deck Tracker.exe.” The malware, if installed, can “open a back door, record from the webcam, log key strokes, and steal passwords.”Fringe software is often a hotbed of insecurity. Once any individual cheating tool becomes big enough to gain a reputation for delivering on its promises, it also places itself in the crosshairs of lawyers, as Blizzard itself has demonstrated. In 2006 the company won a famous lawsuit against the makers of Glider, a cheating tool for its MMO World of Warcraft.As a result, users are regularly forced to turn to unproven software, which makes them an easy target for malware authors hoping to sneak trojans onto victims’ computers.