“It’s OK to eat fish / cause they don’t have any feelings,” sang Kurt Cobain in the early 90s, but the ethics of ocean sustainability have come into sharper focus since then. Last week, for instance, haddock from three North Sea and west Scotland fisheries were removed from the Marine Conservation Society (MCS)’s “green list” of fish to eat after stocks dipped below critical levels in 2016. To maintain the breeding-age population of stocks in certain regions, the MCS has asked consumers to heed its traffic-light-label warnings and avoid the fish.“Green-certified” haddock caught in the north-east Arctic and Iceland are still available. And the confusingly similarly named Marine Stewardship Council  has argued that stocks are still robust enough, saying people could still eat haddock with a “clear conscience”. But for those who want to give Melanogrammus aeglefinus a breather, what are the sustainable alternatives?Susana Coelho, fishmonger at La Petite Poissonnerie in Primrose Hill, London, suggests cod or halibut as the best alternatives for a kedgeree (Atlantic halibut is endangered but Pacific numbers are stable, so check which you’re buying). She says: “Halibut tastes much the same but is less sweet, while cod is more delicate.” And instead of smoked haddock, smoked cod or smoked pollock will do just as well, although they may be harder to find.But for traditional fish and chips, Coelho recommends lemon sole: “It’s easily done, with two small fillets instead of one large one.” If sole is too expensive, she says: “Hake makes a useful alternative. It’s slightly plainer and flakier than haddock, and retails for a couple of pounds more per kilo.”Steve Hatt Fishmongers in Islington, north London, recommends coley, a member of the cod family, as a good all-rounder that is inexpensive and highly sustainable, while Terry Mcbye, of Jonathan Norris Fishmonger in east London, recommends whiting for fish and chips, which is also cheaper than pollock.“There are always changing stocks,” he says. “There’s no wild sea bass from now until July, so we’re having to use farmed. There was a crisis in cod stocks a few years back, but people just shuffle their preferences around a bit.”Coelho agrees. “Stocks are up and down. Right now, there’s a shortage of salmon, but people need to come into a fishmonger’s with an open mind. They might not get what they were after, but they can always find something that works.”This article was amended on 28 March 2017 to provide more detail about sustainable halibut.