As I was planning my family’s year-long road trip, I asked a group of parents in a playground for their top tips for travelling with children on long days of driving. They looked at my kids, aged four and two, rolling on the grass like itchy puppies, and shouted in unison. “Don’t!”My wife and I had just bought an old motorhome sight unseen online so this advice wasn’t helpful. And 40,000km, 30 countries and one year later, I realised they were wrong. By trial and error and with many tears, often mine, we discovered the best ways to have a great family road trip.Leave early, go slow After a week of solid driving north through the Norwegian fjords towards the Arctic Circle, my family staged a revolution by way of a sit-in, demanding a no-drive day. Revelling in this break, from then on we slowed down, ensuring we were stationary for at least one day in every three. On particularly long driving days, we left early, ensuring everybody was fresh, and arrived before the kids’ witching hour. We stopped regularly at parks or playgrounds, where, unlatched from their seatbelts, the kids ran free like puppies off leashes. This child-friendly pace of dawdling tea stops and long, lazy lunches created as much entertainment as the awesome destinations.In-transit activitiesArmed with colouring and reading books and paper, and with no mobile internet, the kids started entertaining themselves. We sang silly songs, told stories, and sometimes they slept. Occasionally, we counted cows, castles or yellow cars through the windows. At these times I tried not to be game-competitive – there’s little dignity in screaming “I won!” at a two-year-old.Food, the great distractor Being with my children 24/7 for an extended period, I discovered how food constantly simmered in their little minds. Promising it, making it, drawing it, from anticipation to devouring, food was the great distractor. Just murmuring the word gelato could produce well-behaved discipline an army sergeant would yearn for. We also maintained a spare crisp packet in the glovebox of the vehicle at all times, cracked open like a glass-fronted fire alarm, only in emergencies, which seemed to occur quite often.PromisesPromises of climbing castles, eating food and petting zoo animals could tame even the surliest child. But the great parental trap, the ill-thought-out promise, was to be avoided. When I found there was no gelato in the High Atlas Mountains in Morocco and no Ice Hotel in Sweden (it melts in summer), the disappointment blowback was extreme.Don’t mention the toilet“Has everybody been to the toilet?” seemed like a reasonable question at the start of each drive. Invariably, the kids said yes. Within five minutes of being on the road, however, the toilet concept sunk in, forcing an emergency pullover. We stopped mentioning it.Set Holy Grail destinations Driving for weeks towards the north pole became a pumped-up adventure once the kids knew they would visit Lapland’s Santa Claus and feed his reindeers. Turkey? Easy – underground cities. Oxford? The grand hall of Hogwarts. Involved in the upcoming destinations, the children would chirp like excited squirrels, making the journey that much better.Disconnect to truly connect No TV, internet, tablets or phones – it seemed like a good idea to reclaim “old-fashioned” family time and let the kids’ imaginations run wild. And it was – for a week. Soon we began to crave a hit of Google. But immersed in the rarefied air of each other’s company and discovering a new level of mutual attentiveness, we played games, lit fires, counted the bonging of church bells and connected as a family as never before.After driving from the Arctic Circle to Morocco, through eastern Europe, Turkey and back again, I shared this final “disconnect to connect” idea with the same parents who told me not to do the trip. I suggested that switching off technology and being trapped in the bubble of a car offers one of the greatest ever opportunities for family togetherness. Their group reply? “Can’t think of anything worse!”I couldn’t think of anything better.• John Ahern is the author of On the Road ... with Kids: One Family’s Life-Changing Gap Year is published by Summersdale, £8.99