For Cleo Barbour, colour is king. It’s clear in everything from the candy-coloured pom-pom shoe clips she designs for her label Cleo B to the turquoise suede flats she wears when we meet at her west London home.It doesn’t stop with the shoes. In her Westbourne Park warehouse conversion, Cleo’s work and home life collide in a cascade of tropical hues. Exposed steel sings out in bright pinks and purples, and a double-height ombré wall segues elegantly upwards from turquoise to white.“I’ve always been passionate about colour,” says Cleo, who shares the apartment with her wire-haired dachshund, Honey B. “My parents collected modern art, so I grew up with that around me. My brand aesthetic is all about colour and tropical influences, and you can definitely see that at play here.”The two-bedroom flat previously belonged to a member of a boy band and was very much a bog-standard bachelor pad. Wall-to-wall beige tiles and a palette of characterless neutrals greeted Cleo when she first viewed the place. Unsurprisingly, it all had to go.“The original features had been boxed in, so my plan was to reinstate some of the industrial elements but also make it feminine and colourful,” says the 30-year-old shoe designer. “It was quite a challenge, because obviously this wasn’t a predictable approach to the redesign.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Room with a view: steel-framed glazing opening on to the roof terrace. Photograph: Marte Lundby RekaaUtilitarian but glamorous? It sounds like a bit of a stretch, but with the help of Alexander Owen Architecture, Cleo has created a vibrant, light-filled space with a clear nod to the building’s industrial past. Out went the floor tiles and PVC windows; in came lime-washed Dinesen floorboards and steel-framed glazing opening on to the roof terrace. Steel beams were exposed in the ceilings and a bare-bulb lighting rig was set up in the kitchen.Lighting in the main living space comes via a bright-pink triangular installation designed by Cleo’s architects to echo the purple steels which frame the mezzanine bedroom area above. “I love that it is completely bespoke to the area and reflects the features of the space so well,” says Cleo. “My architects really got what I was about. In the kitchen I wanted the open shelving to look like scaffolding, complete with the coloured edges you get on scaffolding boards. They listened to me.”Another key element in the kitchen is the stainless steel-topped baking unit which acts as a central island. “I found it in an antiques shop in Staffordshire, and when I opened the drawers you could still see the brown marks where the hot buns had been placed when they came out of the oven,” says Cleo. “It became the centrepiece of the kitchen. I love the heritage of it.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Bright colours have become normal to me now. It’s what I know’: the living room with vibrant purple sofa. Photograph: Marte Lundby RekaaThe baking unit also provides plenty of storage. “There’s no point in having an amazing-looking space if there’s nowhere to put anything,” she says. The washing machine and dryer are hidden away in bespoke cupboards in the bathroom, and the kitchen has practical stainless-steel worktops and Tardis-like drawers.Upstairs, Cleo’s bedroom is awash with turquoise, peach and pink, brushed gold fittings and modern artworks by Peter McDonald and Tommy Penton. Star of the show is a bespoke coral and gold “shoe wardrobe”. As the glass door to each section is opened, a shelf glides forwards to proffer the selected shoe. The architects used hinges more commonly seen in cars to achieve this effect. Again, a “nuts and bolts” approach amid all this glamour.Above all, Cleo cherishes the sense of light and space. “Bright colours have become normal to me now. It’s what I know. But there is serenity here despite all these vivid tones. And waking up to so much colour keeps me feeling optimistic and inspired.”