1. ZZYZX by Gregory Halpern (MACK)Halpern spent six years working on ZZYZX, often travelling to locations in California he picked at random from Google Maps. Named after a village on the edge of the Mojave desert in San Bernardino County, ZZYZX heightens the sense of unreality outsiders often detect in LA. As the veteran documentary photographer Chris Killip noted, Halpern has dramatically fractured “the sanctified cliched reverence” of traditional American landscape photography. In doing so, he has created a place both real and metaphorical, familiar yet alien. Read review here2. Provoke: Between Protest and Performance (Steidl)A timely and informed overview of the Provoke movement that emerged out of the turbulent, protest-fuelled upheavals of Japan in the late 1960s. Focusing not just on the short-lived proto-zine that carried the grainy, urgent images of photographers like Daido Moriyama and Takuma Nakahiri alongside writers like Takahiki Okada, but also the social context that spawned it, the book is a must for anyone interested in the ongoing adventure that is Japanese photography and photobook-making.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Daido Moriyama, untitled, from the series Accident (Akushidento), 1969. Photograph: © Moriyama Daido/collection of Shadai Gallery, Tokyo Polytechnic University3. Discordia by Moises Saman and Daria Birang (self-published)A radical take on photojournalism, Moises Saman’s Discordia sits somewhere between reportage and art, comprising long, intricate sequences of images that dispense with the usual linear narrative of the genre, as well as diaristic passages of prose. Culled from four years shooting for Magnum in the Middle East during the Arab spring, the book also uses photo-collages created by Daria Birang, a Dutch-Iranian artist, in which the repetitive gestures of street protest – stone-throwing, running, kicking tear gas canisters – are isolated and emphasised. Process and protest: a book for our turbulent times.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jack Dracula at a bar, New London, Conn., 1961, by Diane Arbus. Photograph: © The Estate of Diane Arbus, LLC.4. Astres Noirs by Katrin Koenning and Sarker Protick (Chose Commune)A strange and enchanting visual conversation between two photographers who live thousands of miles apart about what might be called the everyday sublime. Keonning is a German living in Australia, and Protick is from Bangladesh. Both have used their mobile phones to look at the earth and the sky – stars, shadows, light rays, water falling, stains on the road – sharing a style that tends towards the dark and grainy, and manages to be luminous all the same. A small gem of close observation and collaboration.5. In the Beginning by Diane Arbus (Metropolitan Museum of Art)The catalogue from the brilliant exhibition of the same name at the Met in New York chronicles Arbus’s early years as a wandering street photographer. It shows her eye for the eccentric and the grotesque was there from the start – but these are softer, grainier images than the ones she is known for and betray a deep melancholic strain. Alongside circus and sideshow performers from Times Square and Coney Island, she captures the sadness of the city in evocative images of passing adults and children.6. Lost in the Wilderness by Kalpesh Lathigra (self-published)In the year of the Standing Rock protest, Kalpesh Lathigra’s self-published book, Lost in the Wilderness, is a timely one. The result of several months travelling through the Native American landscapes of Wyoming and South Dakota, Lathigra’s images carry echoes of a tragic past – the Wounded Knee massacre of 1890 – as well as the sense of melancholy and remembering that attends the present. Lost in the Wilderness moves between the intimate and the subtly symbolic. The book captures the reality of life on the reservations – the barren land, drab rooms, careworn faces – as well as some moments of dark irony: the Custer motel in the town of Custer in South Dakota, a wall in a Dairy Queen fast-food cafe covered in photographs of John Wayne as a cowboy.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Richard Toledo, Oglala, from Kalpesh Lathigra’s series Lost in the Wilderness. Photograph: Kalpesh Lathigra7. Border Cantos by Richard Misrach (Aperture)Another timely book. Since 2004, Misrach has been photographing the 2,000-mile border between Mexico and the US as part of his bigger project Desert Cantos. Alongside landscapes and buildings, Misrach has photographed discarded artefacts of migration: water bottles, items of clothing, shotgun shells, makeshift ladders and parts of the wall itself. The book is a collaboration with Guillermo Galindo, composer and musician, and contains scores, instrument designs made from the artefacts and links to videos of Galindo’s performances.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Border patrol target range, Boca Chica highway, near Gulf of Mexico, Texas, 2013. Photograph: Richard Misrach8. The House of Seven Women by Tito Mouraz (Dewi Lewis)Based on a ghost story from his native Portugal, The House of Seven Women sees Tito Mouraz evoke the myth of the seven mysterious women, one of whom was considered a witch, who continued to cast a spell on his adult imagination. His black and white images are atmospheric and, yes, haunting, as trees, buildings, nocturnal animals and local people appear as if out of a dream. A book about how the power of myth and legend acts on our imaginative understanding of landscape.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An image from The House of the Seven Women. Photograph: Tito Mouraz9. Maximilian Stejskal: Folklig Idrott, edited by Marie-Isabel Vogel and Alain Rappaport (Edition Patrick Frey)Found photography archives continue to exert a strong fascination in the digital age, and Maximilian Stejskal’s extraordinary recovered archive illustrates why. In the 1930s, Stejskal cycled across southern and eastern Finland as well as Estonia, carrying two bellows cameras and a box of glass plates. An amateur ethnologist and gym teacher, he systematically collected information about the “folk athletics” from the older rural men of the region – mainly exercises and tests of strength that proved their virility. He photographed their younger relatives and farmhands performing the exercises. The results, intriguing and surreal, make up this strange and wonderful photobook.10. END by Eamonn Doyle (self-published)The final part of Doyle’s Dublin street photography trilogy, END is an art object in itself: 13 elaborately designed sections in which Niall Sweeney’s drawings and David Donohoe’s soundtrack (a 7in vinyl record) enhance the sense of a city unfolding in vivid colour photographs of its mainly working-class citizens. As ever, Doyle’s images are both intimate and dramatic, and suggest a city of strangers passing, each wrapped up in their own reveries.11. Wolfgang by David Fathi (Skinnerboox)Using the Cern archive, French artist David Fathi has created a semi-fictional narrative around the real-life figure of Wolfgang Ernst Pauli, one of the founders of quantum physics. A genius, but also someone dogged by bad luck, Pauli was seen by his fellow scientists as someone who could cause an experiment to fail or a complex piece of equipment to malfunction just by entering a laboratory. Fathi reconstructs “the Pauli effect” in a playful, humorous book that mixes manipulated images and untouched archival photographs.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An image from Aeronautics in the Back Yard by Xiaoxiao Xu. Photograph: Katrin Koenning, Sarker Protick12. Aeronautics in the Backyard by Xiaoxiao Xu (The Eriskay Connection)A small-edition book about a big subject. In 2015, Xiaoxiao set out to drive across three provinces of China to photograph eight different amateur aeronauts, all of whom are engaged in building their own flying machines from recycled scrap metal, wood and used machinery parts. Working in their backyards or makeshift workshops, they are all engaged in a dream of freedom though flight, and, though not always successful in their endeavours, share a devotion to the idea of attempting the impossible. A deeply symbolic book about individual dreams and human resourcefulness.• More on the best culture of 2016