What is 6x9?A virtual reality experience created by the Guardian about solitary confinement, 6x9 places viewers in a virtual cell, telling a story of the psychological damage that extreme isolation can cause. An estimated 80,000 people are currently in solitary confinement in the US. They spend 22-24 hours a day in their cells, with little to no human contact for days or even decades.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A person using a virtual reality headset. Photograph: Katherine Anne Rose for the ObserverWhat is virtual reality (VR)?The computer-generated simulation of a three-dimensional image or environment that can be interacted with by a person using special electronic equipment, such as an eyemask with a screen.How can I use virtual reality?You can experience virtual reality on headsets such as Oculus Rift or Samsung Gear. You can also use Google Cardboard.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Google Cardboard goggles.What is Google Cardboard?Google Cardboard is a cheap set of goggles made from cardboard, with plastic lenses. To watch a piece in virtual reality, you insert your Android or iOS smartphone into the Google Cardboard. The Guardian’s 6x9 project is best viewed using Google Cardboard or a headset.Can I use the app and virtual reality experience without Google Cardboard?Yes, the piece can be viewed through the app on your phone. You can move the phone around, and as you do the image on the screen will move around too. It’s often called “magic window”. However, you will not get the intended full immersive experience. We would highly recommend using Google Cardboard.6x9Where can I get Google Cardboard?You can order it online here.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cardboard version 1 is no longer on sale.Please note iPhones 5 and 5s work with Cardboard v1, which is no longer on sale. All other phones work with the latest Cardboard. Is my phone compatible?Cardboard requires Android version 4.1 or higher, or iOS version 9.0 or higher.How do I experience 6x9?Download the free Guardian app for iPhone or Android. Start the app.Plug in your headphones. Turn the volume up. If you have a Google Cardboard viewer, select the Cardboard option and put your smartphone into the viewer. (Be sure to look around to experience all 360 degrees of the video.) If you don’t have Google Cardboard, select the MAGIC WINDOW option and look around the cell by moving your smartphone.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   What 6x9 looks like.I don’t have a smartphone. Can I still watch 6x9?Yes! You can watch 6x9 on your computer as a 360° video. Visit theguardian.com/solitary-vr. While you’re watching, click and drag around the video to see a 360 degree view.What do I do once the piece starts?Try moving your head. If you stay still you will get only one view, but by looking around you, you can explore the whole environment.Is this safe?You should be aware before watching that 6x9 contains disturbing material that may provoke an emotional reaction. You should take this and your comfort level into consideration before you choose to continue.We advise you are 18 or overIf you feel sick or uncomfortable while watching, take off the goggles. We advise you undertake the experience sitting down. Make sure there are no hot drinks near you. You will forget about them as you experience 6x9.I’m having trouble downloading the app. What should I do?Make sure that your WiFi is turned on. You may also want to prevent your phone from going to sleep, which will stop the download process. Please note that the download will stop if you leave the app.I’m experiencing double vision when using the iPhone app. The video looks blurry in my Cardboard viewer. What should I do?Adjust your phone in the viewer to suit your viewing experience, and make sure that your smartphone is flat against the Cardboard. The centres of your smartphone screen and the Cardboard viewer should be aligned.Is the Guardian going to make more VR pieces?This is a prototype and we hope it will lead to more.Where can I get more VR content?You can visit YouTube 360 to watch more virtual reality videos and get the Google Cardboard app on the Play Store or App Store to explore additional virtual reality content for your Cardboard viewer.I have more questions and would love to give feedback about 6x9 and virtual reality at the Guardian. How can I get in touch?We value your feedback and would love to hear from you. If you have any questions about 6x9 or have experienced any issues, please email us at 6x9@theguardian.com