The writer of a BBC drama exploring the widespread grooming and sexual assault of young women in Rochdale by Asian men has addressed concerns that it could be used by far-right groups to further their racist agenda.Nicole Taylor, who wrote Three Girls, said that while she accepted that groups such as the English Defence League and other extremists would “hitch their wagon opportunistically to anything”, she felt confident this drama “doesn’t give them an opportunity to do so”.Taylor said such concerns had occupied her for four years while she carried out the research and interviews for the programme – including speaking to many of the victims, their families and the whistleblowers who fought for years for the exploitation to be taken seriously – but said that it was “not a reason for silence”.Maxine Peake and Lesley Sharp to star in Rochdale abuse drama “I didn’t want to give these people [the EDL] an opportunity,” she said. “But that’s not a reason to do the drama. I felt very strongly, from beginning to end, that there is a significant benefit in airing this story and I still feel that.“There was no religious basis for this, but a wider discussion about why this was, and is, a distinct pattern would be welcome.”Taylor said she had been motivated to keep going with the drama when she realised how keen the victims were for people to know their story. The drama is divided into three hour-long episodes and follows the stories of three of the victims.The exposure of the grooming, sexual assault and trafficking of young girls in Rochdale – and how their case had been systematically ignored by the police and social services for years – shook the country when the scandal was made public in 2012. It eventually resulted in the conviction of nine men for serious sexual offences, including rape and human trafficking, inflicted on girls as young as 13 between 2005 and 2008.Maxine Peake plays the sexual health worker Sara Rowbotham, who spent years of her life trying to get authorities to take the grooming seriously. Peake said she came on board because it was a story that needed to be told and to be understood, particularly when it came to understanding what is meant by the term grooming. “These were really vulnerable young women ... and the lack of care I found mind-blowing,” she said.Maxine Peake: 'I'm a Corbyn supporter. We need a coup' Peake also spoke of her outrage at the way Rowbotham, who she become close to during filming of Three Girls, was treated by Rochdale council for being a whistleblower on the case.“It was so shocking that Rochdale council got away with sacking her because she’d highlighted problems in the way they worked,” said Peake. [See footnote]Susan Hogg, head of drama at Studio Lambert, who made the drama for the BBC, said she had been inspired to take on the girls’ story after hearing one of the victims being interviewed and wanted to explore some of the hugely contentious questions that shrouded the case.Hogg said: “I wanted to understand how was this allowed to go on for so long? Why were the girls not listened to? And what was the nature of grooming? It was hard to understand why the girls would go back and why they couldn’t be saved.”She said she had been disturbed by what they had uncovered during research, what she called an “institutional neglect of a certain strata of society”.“These girls were treated like riffraff who were undeserving of the law and not deemed worthy of care – and that was the overwhelming thing we learnt from this story,” said Hogg, adding: “The terrible thing was when the girls came in to tell the police what was happening, the police ignored them because they didn’t believe when they stood up in the witness box they would be believed.”The was a view echoed by Taylor. “Overwhelmingly what I heard from everyone in the criminal justice system, everyone at social services, that there was this collective attitude towards ‘difficult girls’ and that became a category of its own,” she said.Hogg emphasised that during the four years of research into not just the victims’ harrowing experiences, but also why social services and the police failed to act for so long, they had found no “concrete evidence they were deliberately ignoring and not prosecuting because of racial sensitivity”, and that the blame lay more with a lack of finance and interest in the welfare of the young girls.As well as highlighting the injustice and devastating impact the grooming had on the girls, the Three Girls creators said they wanted it to raise awareness of the signs of sexual exploitation among parents and young people.“These are three girls that represent thousands of victims who we know about,” said Hogg. “What’s really important for us is that the public really understand how grooming works, and recognise it when it’s happening. That’s where we’d really like to have an effect.”•In fact the woman on whom Maxine Peake’s character is based, Sara Rowbotham, worked for the Rochdale Crisis Intervention team, part of the NHS, and was made redundant. She is now a Labour councillor for Rochdale Borough Council.