“Nobody ever pulls you aside and goes, just so you know, relationships are fucking bullshit …” With typical sweary frankness, here’s the first look at new Judd Apatow TV programme Love. Gillian Jacobs seems to be playing a slacker not a millions miles away from Britta, the character she perfected on Community, opposite “nice guy” Paul Rust, who’s also a co-writer with Apatow and Lesley Arfin. We’re promised “the exhilarations and humiliations of intimacy, commitment, love and other things they were hoping to avoid” in 10 half-hour episodes which premiere on 19 February in all Netflix territories.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Love trailer.Netflix has also announced details for its upcoming programmes in 2016.Returning shows include season four of House of Cards with Kevin Spacey and Robin Wright back in the Oval Office on 4 March; Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt (No 1 in our Best of 2015 TV poll), back on 15 April; followed by Jane Fonda and Lily Tomlin in season two of Grace and Frankie on 6 May and Orange is the New Black season four, which premieres on 17 June.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest House of Cards – season four.Other new shows on Netflix this year include Arrested Development star Will Arnett in Flaked, starting 11 March, “the serio-comic story of Chip, a celebrated long-time resident of the insular world of Venice, California who falls for the object of his best friend’s fascination”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Flaked on Netflix starring Will Arnett and Ruth Kearney. Photograph: Adam Rose/NetflixThere’s also The Ranch, a comedy series starring Ashton Kutcher, Danny Masterson, Sam Elliott and Debra Winger, which is set on a present day Colorado ranch, starting 1 April. Marseille follows a power struggle in a mayoral race starring Gérard Depardieu, Benoît Magimel and Géraldine Pailhas, starting 5 May. Daredevil cast teases new villains for second season of Netflix series Stranger Things (15 July) is a new eight-part drama series written and directed by Matt and Ross Duffer (Wayward Pines, Hidden) with Winona Ryder, David Harbour, Finn Wolfhard, Millie Brown and Matthew Modine, about a young boy who vanishes. (“As friends, family, and local police search for answers, they are drawn into an extraordinary mystery involving top secret experiments, terrifying supernatural forces, and one very strange little girl.”) The Get Down, Baz Luhrmann’s music-driven drama about the birth of hip-hop in 1970s New York, premieres on 12 August, with a cast that includes Shameik Moore, Justice Smith, Herizen Guardiola, Skylan Brooks, Tremaine Brown Jr, Yahya Abdul-Mateen II, Jimmy Smits, Giancarlo Esposito and Jaden Smith. Baz Luhrmann's The Get Down: Netflix unveils first trailer Gugu Mbatha-Raw (Beyond the Lights, Concussion and Doctor Who) and Mackenzie Davis (The F Word, Halt and Catch Fire and The Martian) are the first cast members announced for Netflix’s new episodes of Black Mirror, the anthology show from Charlie Brooker which started on Channel 4. A second season of Marvel’s Jessica Jones starring Krysten Ritter has also been confirmed. 