It was not my finest moment. Perhaps it was my worst. In the aftermath of the end of my first serious relationship, over a decade ago, I read my ex-boyfriend’s email. We’d exchanged passwords when we were very much in youthful love – pre-smartphone, sometimes it was useful to get him to look something up in my account when I wasn’t near a computer, or vice versa – and after the breakup, he didn’t change his password. (I asked him to; he replied that he should have been able to trust me not to read his email, which was not incorrect.)Heartbroken, I snooped daily, compulsively, ignoring the wise advice of a friend who pointed out that the most I would discover was things that would upset me. If my boyfriend wanted to get back together with me – which is what I desperately wanted – he’d tell me. I wouldn’t learn it from an email he’d written to someone else. I knew that. I just couldn’t seem to help myself.Now I know that was because I was only human. A new study published this week by researchers from the University of Chicago and the Wisconsin School of Business demonstrates using science that curiosity doesn’t just murder cats: it murders our happiness. Scientific American sums it up: “The need to know is so strong that people will seek to slake their curiosity even when it is clear the answer will hurt.”In the study, subjects who were faced with the prospect of unpleasant stimuli – small electric shocks, the sound of fingernails on a chalkboard – linked to certain actions (clicking a pen, for example) were unable to avoid the temptation to do the actions anyway. Such is the intensity of our craving for knowledge, our vulnerability to feelings of wonder: we’re willing to injure ourselves in order to satisfy it.My husband has stopped cheating on me after 35 years If you’ve never wasted any of your life staring at your ex’s Facebook photos, I suppose you can feel very smug right now. For the majority of us, however, it’s a bit comforting to know that your desire to know whether someone’s new partner is better-looking than you (for example) doesn’t just indicate that you’re pathetic and spineless. The urge runs deep, and universal. The trouble, of course, is when that desire is felt and fed in a world where information is available to us in endless, infinite ways. The internet means that there is little impediment to finding the answer to any question that crosses our minds whenever we want it. Or at least, trying to find the answer – though as another recent study revealed, our haste to Google things rather than wait for insights from experts can have a very real and very negative impact on our health.In the sad, secret affair between me and my ex-boyfriend’s email, the study was proven true. My snooping just made me sad, and in one case did some temporary damage to a relationship with a mutual friend who’d written a note to my ex about our split that wasn’t very complimentary to me (of course it wasn’t: he was try to make my ex feel better, not me). In time, I learned to muster the strength to turn away from other partners’ unlocked phones or computers: sometimes, a true mind-over-matter challenge. The acquisition of painful, troubling knowledge cannot be undone; the things we’d least like to know are the hardest to forget. Out of kindness to ourselves, it’s worth considering whether we really want to read, or look, or ask – sometimes, it turns out, there’s real character and strength in maintaining ignorance. Maybe even bliss.