A year after buying a little-known music service and relaunching it as Tidal, Jay Z appears to be preparing to sue its original owners for misleading him about its performance.Lawyers for the musician turned millionaire businessman has reportedly written to venture capital firm Verdane and Scandinavian media conglomerate Schibsted saying they “significantly” exaggerated the service’s number of users.The two companies sold Aspiro, which ran the WiMP streaming service that became Tidal, to a consortium led by Jay Z that also included “artist-owners” Madonna, Beyoncé and Rihanna for $57m (£40m) in March last year. Jay Z is said to be seeking about $15m, according to Norwegian media.Tidal said: “We are excited that one year after Tidal launched, we have surpassed 3 million subscribers globally. The growth in our subscriber numbers has been even more phenomenal than we’ve previously shared.“It became clear after taking control of Tidal and conducting our own audit that the total number of subscribers was actually well below the 540,000 reported to us by the prior owners. As a result, we have now served legal notice to parties involved in the sale. “While we cannot share further comment during active legal proceedings, we’re proud of our success and remain focused on delivering the best experience for artists and fans.”Norwegian business title Dagens Næringsliv reported that the key contention in the dispute is whether Tidal’s subscriber figures and financial performance were accurately communicated before the acquisition.Tidal’s celebrity backing has helped it rapidly make a mark on the streaming industry. It recently announced it has 3 million subscribers and had delivered 250m streams of Kanye West’s latest album, which launched exclusively on the service in February. However, it still lags behind more established rivals such as Spotify.Swedish tech publication Breakit reported that a spokesperson for Schibsted has said the company is “unsympathetic to the letter and any requirements ... we want to point out that it was a publicly traded company that was acquired, with what that means for transparency of financial reporting.”The claims are proving controversial in Norway, where Aspiro was based, because the company was publicly traded and as such regularly reported its financial performance.Apiro’s end-of-year report for 2014, published in February 2015, stated that the company’s net sales in 2014 were $37.2m at current exchange rates and its net loss for the year was $10.3m. They claim to have had 5000, 000 paying users at the end of 2014, including 35,000 on its HiFi tier.Tidal has increased its 16 original artist-owners to 20, with Lil Wayne, Damien Marley, TIP and French band Indochine all recently signing up. Tidal charges a monthly fee of $19.99 and has been mocked by some for being elitist, but rock musician Jack White has defended the company, stating it will help struggling artists. 