You could argue that standup was born in the Catskill mountains of upstate New York – the so-called Borscht Belt where Jewish New Yorkers holidayed in the middle of the 20th century (partly because they weren’t widely welcomed elsewhere). That’s where Lenny Bruce and Jackie Mason, Woody Allen and Joan Rivers cut their teeth as performers – and that’s what the UK Jewish Comedy festival celebrated this weekend with an event entitled Sol Bernstein’s Borscht Belt cabaret. I went along hoping for an insight into the genesis of the art form I spend so many of my evenings watching – but that’s not quite what I got.The first UK Jewish comedy festival: ‘We’ve kept our heads down too long’ The evening was, at best, a qualified success, for a variety of reasons – partly to do with atmosphere and expectation. The shows this event was commemorating sound like unpretentious affairs, performed to holidaying audiences of working- and middle-class New York Jews of, presumably, a wide range of ages. This weekend’s cabaret took place on a Sunday night – never great for letting your hair down – in a conference room, to a mainly senior audience, a fact to which several of the acts referred. “Bingo soon!” quipped daft prop comic Steve Best as another joke met with a muted response.I’d guess there was a disconnect in expectations too – between an audience that had come to see a fond tribute to classic Jewish comedy of years gone by (or, like me, to pursue a scholarly interest in comedy history) and a show honouring Borscht Belt comedy in the spirit rather than to the letter. So there was a house band, The Maurie Berkowitz Plutzers, playing jazzy tunes, there was a wordplay comic (Leo Kearse as “Punman”), an old-school prop comic (Best) and two musical acts – Kate Dimbleby and Oliver Darley – between the jokers.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Wordplay comic … Leo Kearse as PunmanThe act that delivered most straightforwardly on the evening’s promise was Simon Schatzberger in his Woody Allen guise, performing classic 60s Allen routines. His was also the least interesting turn, unfortunately, mimicry-lite, a living museum piece that didn’t really take flight into comedy. In compere Sol Bernstein, the gig delivered another what-it-says-on-the-tin fix, in the sense that Bernstein (real name Steve Jameson) offers an unsubtle pastiche of Jackie Mason-style vintage Jewish comedy. But the other acts were more leftfield, and unlikely to appeal to the same audience that might enjoy Darley’s easy listening, soulless soul music covers elsewhere on the same bill.The most Marmite act went by the name Morty “the Wheeze” Mandel: like Bernstein, a spoof of the tuxedoed lite-ent of yesteryear, albeit a more extreme one. Like an emphysemic version of Gregg Turkington’s anti-comic Neil Hamburger, Mandel’s whiskery gags about “an Italian, a Frenchman and a Jew”, or about “schtupping” this or that girl were forever interrupted by rasps, wheezes and groans of discomfort. “Is this meant to be funny?” the bewildered oldsters next to me asked one another, and their running commentary on Mandel’s awfulness punctuated the rest of his act like a chorus. A gag about wiping his schlong on the curtains? (“He’s very poor.”) A gag about Jewish bras making mountains out of molehills? (“Not one of his jokes has been original!”)That was the point, of course, but I doubt that couple were alone in missing it. I’d bet that a sizeable portion of the audience were there to enjoy vintage (Jewish) comedy unironically. But Bernstein’s gig insisted on the necessity of irony, seeming to believe that these kinds of material – puns, classic one-liners, gentle-chauvinist gags about nationalities and henpecking wives – can no longer be performed without it. (Anyone who’s seen Jackie Mason in recent years will know this not to be true.) That left us with a very curious event, awkwardly poised between tribute and piss-take, even condemnation, of the old-school standup with which the Borscht Belt was associated. Insights into comedy history were in short supply, then. Insights into comedy present – where what’s held to be funny or legitimate, with and without irony, is contested territory – were more forthcoming.The UK Jewish Comedy festival is at JW3, London, until 7 December. Box office: 020-7433 8988.Three to seeMy Big Fat Weirdos Christmas WeddingFifth annual outing for the “alternative Christmas panto” staged by a collective of leftfield comics, including Ben Target, Beth Vyse and John Kearns. “Expect love, violence, music and poorly made cardboard props,” it says here. All proceeds go to Great Ormond Street Hospital Charity.• Leicester Square theatre, London, 7-9 December. Box office: 020-7734 2222.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Nish Kumar: What can a satirist do with our post-truth politics?Nish KumarLast touring dates for one of the country’s preeminent political comics, as Kumar takes his award-nominated Edinburgh show – about gig-going, gentrification and the post-Brexit landscape – to the nation.• West End Centre, Aldershot, 7 December. Box office: 01252 330040. Exeter Phoenix, 8 December. Box office: 01392 667080. Then touring.Sofie HagenAlso reaching the end of her tour, Danish comic Hagen embarks on a London run with her sophomore show Shimmer Shatter, framing a discussion of her anxiety issues within a story about relationship failure and getting married to a block of wood.• Soho theatre, London, 5-17 December. Box office: 020-7478 0100