“We’ll need eight hard hats for this scene,” notes Emily Hall. The composer and two of her production team are walking me around the locations for Found and Lost, her new site-specific opera. Protective headgear is not what you might expect to find on the props list of an opera that takes place in a five-star hotel in central London, but we’re in the boiler room in the bowels of the building, and it’s the chorus who’ll be wearing hard hats. Mind you, they will also be learning sommelier skills and how to turn down a bed to meet the exacting standards of the Corinthia’s housekeeping manual.Last year, Hall was selected to be the London hotel’s artist-in-residence, an annual cross-genre scheme in which winners are resident at the hotel for a month, during which they create a piece inspired by, about and located in the building, for public performance. Photography, film and theatre have featured in previous years, but the brief to create opera with only a £15,000 budget within a working hotel might seem an ambitious if not downright eccentric one. Hall wasn’t fazed.“David [Sheppard, the sound designer] and I have done several installations together that use unusual spaces. A submarine base in Bordeaux, Kings Cross’s Midland Goods Shed, another boiler room – the Royal Festival Hall’s …” A conventional opera with a full orchestra and proscenium-arched stage would not have interested her. “I don’t really want to write for a big symphony orchestra. That’s not the direction I’m going in.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Helen Maybanks (posed by a model)Hall, 37, studied composition at York University and the Royal College of Music, London. While she was still in her 20s, her work was performed at the Cheltenham festival, and at the Southbank and Barbican Centres; in 2005 she won the Royal Philharmonic Society Composition award; the following year, her first opera, Sante, was produced by Aldeburgh Productions and the London Sinfonietta. Her writing today tends to focus on vocal music, written for a circle of musicians she has formed close creative relationships with.Collaborators include the singer-songwriter Mara Carlyle, composer and artist Mira Calix, tenor Allan Clayton and cellist Oliver Coates, three of whom she has worked with on her current project, and all of whom, like Hall, operate beyond a strictly classical sphere. Her sparsely scored and exquisite miniatures sit in that nether region where classical and indie music blur: labelling her work one or the other genre is impossible, and pointless.“Found and Lost is really not conventionally an opera,” says Hall. “I prefer ‘opera installation’. But unlike theatre, is it music-led: things have been dictated by the length of bits of music, rather than the music being fitted to the drama.”The drama takes the form of a promenade tour through the hotel. The audience of 14 are almost outnumbered by the live performers – seven chorus members, two musicians (Coates and organist James McVinnie) and an actress, while the recorded voices of soloists including Clayton and Carlyle are relayed through portable speakers carried by the chorus.The narrative emerges obliquely and involves a search for lost objects. (The evening begins with a lost-and-found list: a bouquet, a wrench, a photograph, a swimsuit, a pillow.) “It’s a date that goes badly wrong … the audience can piece together what has happened,” says Hall. “And yes, various objects we extracted from the lost-and-found lists in the hotel become key to our narrative.”But this is no straightforward detective story. “We want the audience to feel that they’re exploring the hotel, not searching for clues,” she says. “My music is immediate and melodic, so it works for me for the story to be harder to pick up,” says Hall.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It was very special to be writing inside the actual set of the opera’ … Emily Hall Photograph: Rob OrchardEach word in every song is extracted from texts found in the hotel. “David and I had a week in the hotel with poet Matthew Welton rummaging for material.” Spreadsheets about boilers, menus, housekeeping manuals, and even the lost-and-found list itself were all grist to Hall and Welton’s songwriting mill. “I would come across things and say to Matt, ‘Oooh … I really think Allan would sing a really lovely song with this material – can you make me some lyrics out of that?” The two found natural rhythms and elliptical poetry in these apparently prosiaic documents, and the bones of a story emerged. Theatre director Ella Hickson then helped create the narrative. “Which is obviously completely unconventional, but it worked for this project,” smiles Hall.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Corinthia Hotel, former home to the Ministry of Defence Photograph: Barbara KraftLed around by the chorus or the sound of Coates’ cello, or sometimes by pre-recorded music, the audience will visit public and private places in the historic Victorian hotel. The distinctive triangular building on the corner of Northumberland Avenue and Whitehall Place was built as the Metropole in 1885, and for many years in the mid-20th century housed the Ministry of Defence before being returned to its original function and opening as the Corinthia in 2011.“It was very special to be writing inside the actual set of the opera,” says Hall. “I never sleep well in hotel rooms, so I wrote a lot of the music while I was staying here and could come down and imagine what I’d written exactly in the space. I remember writing the overture and then going into the grand atrium and lobby, playing it over in my mind and thinking, ‘No, that’s not going to work.’ A residency where you write in the performance space itself is a real luxury.”The month’s stay, too, must have been quite a luxury? She laughs. “Well, yes, it was amazing. It was lovely to finish a piece and go and have a spell in the spa, and have a cream tea just for the hell of it. It was a nice change to be doing something not in an industrial warehouse or a brutal car park.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Lobby Lounge, Corinthia Hotel LondonThe pre-recorded music was made in different parts of the hotel – a grand piano was discovered in one of the suites. The atmosphere of the building has worked its way into the piece, even if you won’t hear the ping of the lift doors or the greetings of the desk staff set to music. “We’ve embraced the atmosphere of the hotel,” Hall says. “But there’s also been opportunities to twist things … for the lobby scene, while the hotel does play generic lobby-ish music, I’ve written a really arresting organ piece that makes sure everyone stops and listens. Just because that would never normally happen here.”Sounds emerge in unexpected ways. A scream, recorded under water in the spa, plays on a loop in the lifts. As the audience descend in the service elevator (for transporting rubbish bags staff, and shy celebrities), they will come across Coates and his cello, next to an enormous floor-to-ceiling pipe. In the boiler room, with its white noise – the heart of the opera and the heart of the hotel – we reach the most intimate moment as the chorus (hard hats on, of course) sing an aria about personal failure.What, I ask, do you hope your audience will take away from the experience?Hall pauses, answering carefully. “I hope they are entertained and intrigued. I hope they feel that they’ve been carried around the building by the music and the sounds from the hotel itself.” And maybe our curiosity to see beyond the public face of this grand institution will be satisfied. “After all, we’re all naturally nosy,” she says, smiling.•Emily Hall’s Found and Lost is at the Corinthia hotel, London until 3 February. 