What’s the name of this show? The Real O’NealsWhen does it premiere? The first two episodes air on Wednesday 2 March at 8.30 and 9.30pm EST, on ABC, sandwiching Modern Family. On 8 March, it settles into its normal time slot on Tuesdays at 8.30pm EST right after Fresh Off the Boat. Since it’s scheduled around Modern Family and Fresh Off the Boat, is this another one of ABC’s family sitcoms? You’re absolutely right. Here Kenny (Noah Galvin), a teenager living in the Chicago suburbs comes out as gay to his very religious Irish Catholic parents, Eileen (national treasure Martha Plimpton) and Pat (Jay R Ferguson), who are getting a divorce. This concept is loosely based on the life of sex columnist and gay activist Dan Savage. So if Fresh Off the Boat is the Asian show and Black-ish is the black one, then this is the gay one? Yes, ABC sure is trying to create quite the rainbow of family sitcoms aren’t they? That rainbow reference had nothing to do with gay people. OK, maybe it kind of did. Is The Real O’Neals just like Fresh Off the Boat and Black-ish? Yes and no. Like those other shows it centers around a family of lovable weirdos who always look out for each other in that adorable network comedy way. It also treats Kenny being gay much like it does the race of the Huangs or the Johnsons, as something instrumental to who they are but not entirely defining their identity. A difficult balance, but one the network continues to handle well. The difference is that Black-ish and Fresh Off the Boat both have something unique. Black-ish has the expert way it deals with different political issues like gun control or police brutality. Fresh Off the Boat has a tone that’s both retro and surreal at the same time, using its characters’ outsider status to alert us to our own position in society. The Real O’Neals doesn’t have that je ne sais quoi. Right now it’s just a sitcom about an Irish Catholic family with a gay kid. Wait, wasn’t that a show already? Yes, it was on CBS last season and it was called The McCarthys. It was cancelled. Is The Real O’Neals funny? Mostly. Creators David Windsor and Casey Johnson worked on late, great ABC sitcoms Trophy Wife and Don’t Trust the B in Apt 23, so they clearly know what they’re doing. It’s amusing and clever, like when Kenny’s older brother Jimmy (Matt Shively) is confused that Kenny is still a Katy Perry fan when he comes out as gay. “That means you actually like her for her music?” he asks. Another funny bit shows Kenny going through his closet and deciding if everything in there is a shirt or a blouse. However, it is just lacking a little bit of zing. The inciting gag of the whole series, where Kenny flushes a long string of condoms down the toilet to avoid having sex with his pre-coming-out girlfriend, seems a little bit cribbed from the How to Write a Sitcom manual. Luckily the show has great characters. Who do you like the best? What’s great about the O’Neals is that they’re all worth spending time with. Conservative mom Eileen is prickly and judgmental, but always puts her kids first. Jay R Ferguson, making a hard left turn from playing Peggy’s paramour Stan on Mad Men, is equally excellent as the gruff but understanding father. Kenny and dim bulb Jimmy have a great relationship as brothers, one that transcends their differing sexual orientations. Much like other ABC sitcoms, it’s the youngest of the bunch that steals the scenes, in this instance felonious sister Shannon (The New Normal’s Bebe Wood), who no one would suspect is a criminal mastermind. What is great about the show? Mostly the cast, who have scads of talent even when the material is iffy. Given time, if the writers find the right path for them, the O’Neals will really hit it out of the park.Is there anything awful about it? Kenny narrates every episode with a voiceover and I hate voiceovers as a rule. He also has fantasy visions, like when he talks to Jesus, a naked cologne model, or Jimmy Kimmel. These gags seem imported from another show like 30 Rock, with a more frenetic pace and more visual style of comedy than this. However, hearing Kimmel say “Ooh, gurl” to the newly gay Kenny is one of the highlights of the first several episodes. Should I watch this show? Yes, but give it some time. ABC has had such a killer record with shows like this (The Goldbergs, The Middle, and even the ageing Modern Family are all equally excellent) that I can’t imagine this won’t find its groove. Anyway, it’s on right after Fresh Off the Boat so just don’t touch that dial. You’re already watching Fresh Off the Boat, right? Right?