In the old courthouse in Geelong, 75km south-west of Melbourne, the Back to Back theatre troupe is rehearsing their new play, Lady Eats Apple. Mark Deans begins the read-through of act three. “Blue car,” he says and, as per the script, is upbraided that – being a man with Down syndrome – he has never driven a car.Lady Eats Apple will take the audience from a creation story into the contemporary realm when it is staged at the Melbourne festival next month, and next year at Sydney’s Carriageworks. Most of the actors would be perceived by the general community to have an intellectual disability. They write the scripts in part by drawing on improvisations based on their own lives; the story also explores euthanasia and gods destroyed by their own success. Back to Back’s earlier play, Ganesh versus the Third Reich, dealt with Nazism and eugenics; first performed in 2012, it won a Helpmann award for best play and toured internationally, including in the United Kingdom. Yet some argue Australia has overall been lagging behind the UK’s broader commitment to disability-led performing arts projects.Continuing the rehearsal, Simon Laherty and Sarah Mainwaring put on white overalls, on which script is handwritten in two marker colours. Each actor unfolds creases in the other’s clothing, to see their intimate text, but also as intentional tactile gestures. “I so want to touch you,” reads Laherty. “I want to kiss you on the mouth.”“I’d like to have a coffee, kiss and all that stuff,” responds Mainwaring. “When I’m sick, you can look after me.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sarah Mainwaring, left, and Simon Laherty peer into the world in Back to Back Theatre company’s Lady Eats Apple. Photograph: Jeff BusbyBack to Back artistic director Bruce Gladwin has overseen the ground-breaking company since 1999; in 2012, he told me “fear of the unknown” kept many actors with perceived disabilities from being cast in theatre, film and television. Arts Access Australia had then just launched its Don’t Play Us, Pay Us campaign to get more such actors cast. Four years later, progress is slow with “authentic casting”. But as September’s two-day biannual Arts Activated conference got underway at Carriageworks this week – at which the majority of arts managers and artists presenting had perceived disabilities – wins were also being celebrated. In August, for instance, Kate Hood – a one-time Prisoner actress who was diagnosed in her 40s with hereditary spastic paraplegia and now uses a wheelchair – began filming a role in Neighbours. “At last,” wrote Hood on Facebook, “a major Australian TV series, which is seen globally, has taken the step of casting a disabled actor to play a disabled person.”Many argue for the social model of disability: that disability is caused by the way society is organised, rather than by a person’s point of perceived difference. How do the Back to Back actors feel about the world “disability”? Sarah Mainwaring speaks slowly because of a palsy: “As a performer and writer I accept that word, but I don’t let it stop me.”Simon Laherty explains that the scene in which he and Mainwaring are reading from one another’s clothing is about anyone being allowed to find love: “A person can’t tell you how to run your life,” he says, zeroing in on the key issue of individual autonomy. “You can make your own choices.”Bruce Gladwin says that, in 2016, there are probably more independent productions and films being developed around the world that embrace disability “almost like an aesthetic choice” and with “larger casts of actors with disabilities”.He continues: “But then, there’s still other examples: The Dressmaker, quite a big Australian feature film, had a character with an intellectual disability who was the lynchpin.”Gladwin is referring to Gyton Grantley, who played Barney McSwiney in Jocelyn Moorhouse’s film. One critic described Grantley as a “standout” but, says Gladwin, “that film would have been greatly improved if that role had been cast [instead] with an actor with an intellectual disability”. There are some really talented people [with disabilities] who could do a lot of these roles.Bruce Gladwin, artistic director of Back to Back theatre “Anybody should be able to play anything, and you wouldn’t want to put any limitations on anyone creatively,” Gladwin stresses, “but there are some really talented people [with disabilities] who could do a lot of these roles and it would be great if they were being considered.”The problem with impersonationOn the ABC’s recent miniseries Barracuda, the Geelong artist, street performer and actor Chris Van Ingen, who has cerebral palsy, played a key role in the final episode. The main character, champion swimmer Danny (Elias Anton), forms a bond with the brain-injured Dennis (Van Ingen), who wrote that the experience of being on set as a real character, not just an extra, was phenomenal: “I have finally been able to show that characters with disability can and should be played by actors with disability.”“It’s fantastic that a person with cerebral palsy played that role,” says Arts Access Australia co-chief executive Emma Bennison, “but it was still a portrayal where that person was being helped and supported. I would love to start seeing content where a person with disability is the person providing the help. That’s when we’ll have really arrived.”Bennison lauds the casting too of Keith Robinson as jester Feste in a recent Belvoir Street theatre production of Twelfth Night, for which the actor’s Guillain-Barré syndrome and use of a wheelchair was irrelevant.There is now more discussion about authentic casting than when the Don’t Play Us, Pay Us campaign was launched in 2012, says Bennison, yet still a lack of specific screen content created by people with disability. “In the same way the ABC has an Indigenous film unit, we need the public broadcaster to [establish] a disability content unit. That’s how we’re really going to see significant change.” (An ABC spokeswoman said there are no plans to set up a disability unit but “investment does go into specific [related] projects”.)At the Arts Activated conference this week, the actor Kate Hood told the audience that while about 18% of Australians have a disability, probably only about 4% of characters on stage and screen are portrayed with a disability. She called for the Media, Entertainment and Arts Alliance’s actors equity division to institute a quota on artists with disabilities; just as it was unacceptable to “black up” racially for a role, she said, able-bodied actors should no longer be able to “crip up” as disabled.Freaks: ‘A fleeting glimpse of the Old Weird America’ ABC TV’s head of arts, Mandy Chang, responded at the conference that the 18% was “ringing in my ears”; she agreed with and would push for such quotas, saying the ABC’s “doors are open”, but, she admitted, “people [within the national broadcaster] don’t like [quotas]”.Screen NSW, meanwhile, has launched Screenability NSW, which includes an internship program and “upcoming” plans for a long-term job placement scheme in technical and creative areas of screen production. The comedian Tim Ferguson, cowriter and codirector of the new Australian feature film Spin Out, who has multiple sclerosis, lauded the initiative as “smart and dynamic”.Don’t play us, pay usSarah Houbolt is a strategic projects manager with Accessible Arts in Sydney and convenor of the Arts Activated conference. She is also a circus and physical theatre performer, and is preparing to debut her one-woman show in Brisbane in November, playing KooKoo the Bird Girl: a character originally created by the actor Minnie Woolsey in Freaks, the 1932 Tod Browning film that used actors with disabilities as sideshow performers and which was banned in many countries for 30 years.Houbolt, who is legally blind and has the rare Hallermann-Streiff syndrome, shows me a picture of Woolsey, born in 1880, who in some accounts was rescued from a mental asylum. “I have a wig on at the moment but, if you Google images of me, you’ll be able to see the uncanny resemblance.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The actor and disability arts advocate Sarah Houbolt as KooKoo the Bird Girl. Photograph: Sarah Louise CheesmurThe film Freaks, says Houbolt, has been reclaimed by performers with disability. “The reason the film was banned is because people with disability had lead roles and speaking roles at a time that they shouldn’t have, so it was rebellious,” she says. “The film has a lot of positive power. It’s emancipating; it’s empowering.” Drawing on her strong knowledge of the art history of disability, Houbolt says there have been some important performances by actors with disability on screen, from Freaks, to Britain’s Cast Offs, to season four of the US American Horror Story: Freak Show: a fact that is often not known or celebrated enough. “So we’re not knocking at a closed door,” she says. “We’re going, ‘You’ve got to keep that door open. That door is already open; how dare you shut it in our face’.”  We’re not knocking at a closed door. We’re going, 'You’ve got to keep that door open. How dare you shut it in our face.'Sarah Houbolt, actor and disability arts advocate Houbolt says the Don’t Play Us, Pay Us campaign is “appropriate” because “there are enough artists and performers and jobbing actors with disability to play those roles. If you’re casting for a tall blond, you cast for a tall blond; if you cast for someone who uses a wheelchair, you look for a person in a wheelchair. It makes perfect sense. It’s part of the body”.Dance and disabilityWho can be a dancer? Marc Brew was challenged by that question the day his life changed. Brew had trained with the Australian Ballet School in Melbourne. “My body was my life,” the former country boy from NSW told the Arts Activated conference at Carriageworks in Sydney in his keynote address: “I was trained to believe a dancer had to be on two legs.”Then, at age 20, he was in a car in Victoria with a group of friends when a drunk driver travelling on the wrong side of the road crashed into their vehicle head-on. Brew suffered massive internal injuries.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Marc Brew in For Now, I Am in London in March. Brew is an Australian dancer who moved to the UK 17 years ago, where he found greater support of dancers with disabilities than in Australia. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianSeventeen years ago, the idea of people with disabilities being dancers was poorly understood in Australia, Brew told the conference. So he left for the UK, where he found greater support. Today, as artistic director of the Marc Brew Company in Glasgow, he choreographs as well as performs in his own works. Scotland’s The Herald gave five stars to Brew’s latest show, MayBe, staged in Glasgow last week.“Access can be embedded in the creative process, rather than an afterthought,” Brew told his audience – meaning that access for his wheelchair becomes part of his act. Brew, who will be presenting a masterclass in Brisbane during his return visit to Australia, is encouraged that the country finally seems to be making progress in presenting work for dancers with disabilities.Sydney’s Carriageworks, for instance, has committed to a national strategy called New Normal, which is commissioning 10 new works by artists with disability over three years.For one, staged in August, Force Majeure teamed with Dance Integrated Australia to present Off the Record, with some dancers and actors with perceived disabilities – from deafness to Tourette to Down syndrome – which went largely unstated in the piece. Dance Integrated Australia’s founder and creative director, Philip Channells, says the company provides programs such as Corner Dance Lab and the Beyond Technique Residency to help people with physical, sensorial and mobility impairment attain the level of training that dancers who don’t have a disability can already access.“With Off the Record, we weren’t necessarily interested in making a statement about disability; we were wanting to challenge people’s perceptions of society,” says Channells. He argues disability is a “sort-of made-up word” that “doesn’t really exist: it’s our social attitude towards people who live differently which makes things difficult and challenging”. 'Disability' doesn't really exist; it’s our attitude towards people who live differently which makes things difficult.Philip Channells, creative director of Dance Integrated Australia Australian arts companies often fail to budget for access needs for performers with disabilities, says Channells, and there is still a lack of educational opportunities for performers with disabilities. He has also worked in the UK and says Australia is “about 20 years behind” with disability-led performance work.In dance, for instance, the UK has been developing the sector “for decades”, he says, citing the work of companies Stopgap, Candoco and Graeae among about 40 UK dance companies working with performers with disabilities – compared with a “handful” in Australia. He highlights the UK’s Unlimited festival, which was set up in London about the time of the Paralympics in 2012 to present work by artists with disabilities, and which is now largely funded through to 2020, as “extraordinary”.In Off The Record, the actor and theatre interpreter Alex Jones, who was born deaf, mostly used sign language – “my first language” – but later recited in speech a personal poem displayed on the wall.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It’s about playing on the audience belief, and stereotypes’: Alex Jones with Jana Castillo in Off the Record. Photograph: Gregory Lorenzutti“That kind of threw people off, because a lot of people didn’t know that I could speak,” Jones says, lipreading our interview over the kitchen table at his Sydney home. “So, it’s about playing on the audience belief, and stereotypes – often people think deaf people can’t speak; like, deaf and dumb.”Born in Detroit and having trained for four years at New York University’s Tisch School of the Arts, Jones speaks in an Australian accent; he has lived here since being offered a role by the Melbourne-based Australian Theatre of the Deaf in 1997 and toured the country for a theatre-in-education program for two years.In 2001-02, Jones portrayed the character Lyle Slater in TV drama All Saints, before cofounding a hearing caption company. Today, he works for the National Disability Insurance Agency, administering the National Disability Insurance Scheme, a role that excites him for its “huge transformational opportunity” for people with disabilities. His past screen work was fun too but saw him “typecast” as the “poor deaf guy” character: “I’m still an actor but I don’t work professionally [at the moment] because of the inadequate amount of work available out there,” he says. There needs to be some type of quotas or standardised commitment from organisations to hire people with disabilities.Alex Jones, actor, theatre interpreter and NDIS administrator Jones thinks it would be fantastic if the ABC set up a content unit led by people with disabilities. “This is the Australian broadcaster and they have the responsibility to deliver and meet the needs of the community, knowing that people with disability are already disadvantaged [when it comes to] getting work.”Jones also believes that broader Australian society needs to accept and be willing to work with people with differences. He knows he was lucky to get a scholarship to study acting at NYU, which provided interpreters for his learning. “I’m not a big fan of quotas but I feel there needs to be some type of quotas or standardised commitment from organisations to hire people with disabilities,” he says. “Not only that, people with disability ought to take the responsibility to go and study, learn, work together, collaborate, go to conferences.“It’s a two-way street: it’s not always about what society and the arts community need to do for us but it’s also about how we need to show them.”• Lady Eats Apple premieres at the Hamer Hall, Melbourne on 8 October • Steve Dow travelled to Geelong with the assistance of the Melbourne festival