The developers behind a US-style mega pig farm in south Derbyshire are being urged by the Soil Association to withdraw the planning application they lodged nearly five years ago.The organic farming body – a vociferous opponent of the controversial proposals – has written to Midland Pig Producers (MPP) calling on it to scrap the project in the face of a wealth of new scientific evidence "and wide and increasing objections" which it says strengthen its own original case against the scheme. In December, the Ministry of Justice became the latest opponent of the proposal, expressing concerns about the proximity of the development to Foston women's prison 150 metres away, and the risks to inmates as well as staff.The letter from Soil Association policy director, Peter Melchett, says: "This is totally unacceptable time for the local community to live under the shadow of this proposed development, which, as you know has caused them great distress. Some of these residents live less than 100 metres from the site. There have now been 20,000 objections to the development, which highlights the strength of public feeling against the proposal."MPP applied for permission nearly four years ago to build the farm – which could house up to 25,000 animals – on a 30-acre greenfield site west of the historic village of Foston and adjoining a women's prison. If approved, the project will house 2,500 sows and offspring in a state-of-the-art unit.During the twists and turns of the planning application, it has attracted huge opposition as well as criticism from celebrity opponents. In addition to human health concerns raised by government health officials, farming campaign groups such as the Soil Association and Friends of the Earth have warned it could herald the beginning of bigger factory farming projects in the pig, poultry and dairy sector. However, some food experts say such "mega farms" are needed to keep food prices down.Melchett said earlier fears of risks to human health from units of this scale had been confirmed by scientists and the government's own agencies which have warned of the dangers of large-scale use of antibiotics which could weaken human immune systems.In June last year South Derbyshire district council upheld its earlier objections, but a final decision on the project – expected last summer from Derbyshire county council – failed to materialise. A spokesman for Derbyshire council told the Guardian that further delays had crept into the decision-making process as it was awaiting an environmental permit from the Environment Agency.MPP is one of the largest pig production companies in the UK, producing more than 100,000 pigs each year from 30 farms in eight counties and employing over 150 people. It promises that at least 20 jobs will be created throughout the local area as associated contracts are fulfilled.An MPP spokeswoman said: "It is disappointing for everyone involved that the planning process has taken much longer than anyone imagined. Disease and therefore the need for antibiotics is controlled by good standards of hygiene, welfare and management systems in which MPP has a long record of exemplary performance. Our aim is to support the sustainable production of high-welfare, good quality British-reared pork and pork-derived goods."