A 65th birthday is a milestone but – now the official retirement age has been abolished – not that big a deal. A medium to large company celebrating 65 years in business is just looking for cheap publicity. But a one-man band of a company that has lasted 65 years? It’s a business in which it’s now thought only sprawling megacorps can possibly survive.And yet, still swimming merrily in the murky waters of London publishing, there amid the whales, sharks and giant squid, is this totally improbable tiddler: Souvenir Press, founded in 1951 by 21-year-old Ernest Hecht in his bedroom in Bayswater, London; still run in 2016 by 86-year-old Ernest Hecht OBE from his charmingly dotty HQ opposite the British Museum, where it has been for the past 42 years. It is an extraordinary story, to put it mildly.Next Friday Hecht will hold a 65th anniversary party, a characteristically individualistic one (“champagne, a concert and no speeches”), where the publishing community will pay tribute, with affection and respect for what one of them called his “creativity, hard work, enthusiasm and at times sheer bloody-mindedness”.A few weeks ago Hecht was writing his programme notes for the event, noting that of the remarkable generation of Jewish émigrés who transformed British publishing after the war, only two were left: George Weidenfeld and him. Then he got news of Weidenfeld’s death, aged 96. And just after that he had a fall, and ended up in hospital. Six weeks later, he was back in the office with its four narrow floors, his half-dozen devoted staff, the resident poltergeist and the flag. More anon of the last two.We met for lunch on his first day back. He insisted both on champagne, which seemed like evidence of his physical health, and paying, which seemed like evidence of his financial health. He also insisted on wearing his Arsenal beanie throughout (he’s not a fan, he’s an obsessive), over his untamed hair. He does have a hint of Sir Michael Hordern about him, but the beanie made him resemble not Hordern as Lear but as Lear’s Fool. Foolish? Certainly not. But impish? Yes, and dead canny with it.Jewish community mark 75th anniversary of Kindertransport Hecht’s arrival in Britain was unlikely enough. His father owned a factory in Czechoslovakia until the Nazis invaded. And, though he lost the business, he managed to get out and then organise his family’s exit as well. He escaped via the Kindertransport (he blesses the name of the “British Schindler” Sir Nicholas Winton) despite having the temerity to throw up all over a Gestapo officer on an earlier train journey: “It was not an act of heroism. I’m sick on trains, always.”He knew no English but learned fast, took to football and cricket, went to Hull University to study commerce and manage the football team, then answered an advertisement for a young graduate to rewrite an economics textbook. He didn’t get the job, but he did become interested in publishing; back in the parental home, he produced a biography of the cricketer Len Hutton: “We sold 5,000 but I’d printed 10,000. I hadn’t understood the mechanics.”He learned fast. The name Souvenir came because he saw a gap in the market for decent souvenir theatre programmes. (It’s still there.) But the big theatre owners weren’t interested. Still, he got to know useful people, and in 1953 he brought out Mary Gallati’s Hostess Dinner Book, by the daughter of the owner of London’s hottest restaurant, Le Caprice. It sold well, not least in the restaurant itself: he had the barmen on commission. The following year he hit his first jackpot, with the wartime escape memoir The Password Is Courage, based on the life of Charles Coward. And he was away, in company with the other escapers, led by Weidenfeld, André Deutsch and Paul Hamlyn.What made this group so successful? “It wasn’t Invasion of the Body Snatchers. Nobody knew about the others.” Hecht’s method was entirely his own: “A combination of having a nose for what will sell combined with an understanding of how not to spend money,” says Richard Charkin, an executive director of Bloomsbury. “He subscribes to the Micawber formula for happiness.”Hecht shrugs off theories: “The rule of independent publishing is that there are no rules. I don’t do children’s books, because I don’t understand the market. We used to do fiction but not so much now. And I never did German generals, though I could have made a lot of money. On principle.”But the cunning of it struck me; Pogrom – November 1938: Testimonies from ‘Kristallnacht’ jostles for space with books about knickers and toilet paper. He has published five Nobel prize winners but does not deal much in “midlist”, solid non-fiction books from respectable writers.Souvenir has got by through a mixture of important titles, throwaway stocking fillers and the backlist: the stuff that will never go out of fashion. It is a technique that is observable if you ever visit one of the smaller zoos. As long as they have lions and elephants, the public won’t notice that they don’t have giraffes or hippos.Alan Giles, the former boss of Waterstones, is another fan. “The backlist looks as if it’s stuck in time in terms of both jackets and subject matter. It could be the 1970s. But if you go into any large bookshop, there’ll be one or two copies of plenty of his books, still in print after decades.“Ernest cuts this shambolic figure and he’s very easy to underestimate. And he’s warm and genuine … But he’s astonishingly shrewd and commercial. He’s refused to go down the path of paying huge advances and deeper and deeper discounts to Amazon. You never land up on the good side of a deal with Ernest. He just doesn’t budge.”He has always been inventive. In the 1950s, finding Fleet Street’s literary pages a closed shop, he began courting the provincial papers, which often rewarded him by printing the press releases in full, and gained him sales in once-mighty but neglected outlets such as Boots and railway bookstalls.He must have given six different answers when I asked him to name his biggest seller, but then there are a lot of contenders. In the 60s he discovered Arthur Hailey, master of the single-subject formulaic blockbuster (Airport, Hotel, Wheels), who remained loyal long after it made any sense. There was the very 1968 book Chariots of the Gods? by Erich von Däniken, which postulated that the ancient gods were all astronauts from distant civilisations. “Mad, wasn’t it?” I said. “It caught the zeitgeist,” said Hecht, a bit smugly.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Erich Von Däniken’sChariots of the Gods? ‘caught the zeitgeist’, says Hecht. Photograph: Channel 4The Trachtenberg Speed System of Basic Mathematics, a mental arithmetic primer based on a method Jakow Trachtenberg mastered when pencil-less in a concentration camp, is still selling, more than 60 years after the author’s death. So, more obviously, is Mogens Toft’s illustrated Sexual Techniques, another product of late 60s zeitgeist. “Scotland Yard called me after a shocked report in the People. But there was no prosecution,” he recalled, adding with an air of finality: “It was a major medical book.”Hecht does seem to have a flair for the zeitgeist, though. He is said to have published the first ever rock’n’roll book in 1959. In 1969 he published The Peter Principle, the much quoted dissection of corporate hierarchies, under which managers are said to rise to their level of incompetence. In the 90s he acquired James Finn Garner’s Politically Correct Bedtime Stories, still valid after 20 years. And only last month he acquired the rights to translate To Kill A Mocking Bird into newly fashionable Latin. Meanwhile, he has spent his life avoiding all hierarchies. Only once has Souvenir published a book he did not personally approve, and that was when an acceptance letter was sent off in his absence by mistake.He has spent more than half a century boycotting the Frankfurt book fair: he hated the city even when he went there for a World Cup match. One report said he once held a party to celebrate his continuing absence. This he denied, but not vehemently: “I’ve never done that. Good idea, though.”A management consultant might have something to say about the Hecht desk, or rather desks. As climbing stairs has become more difficult he has taken to working one flight up rather than two, at a desk half covered with piles of books, files and paper. Above it is the original Hecht desk, which is wholly covered with piles of books, files and paper.And then there is the unseen extra staff member. Is the poltergeist friendly? “We think so. We’ve heard voices and all that. The only time he’s misbehaved was when I came back from Arsenal one Sunday and all the books from the left side of the desk were in the middle of the room.”“Perhaps he thought you wouldn’t notice.”“No,” he replied, getting a little huffy. “It was an act of aggression.”The corporate flag, if one can call it that, is now in the front window, even though he won a splendidly fought case against Camden council for permission to fly it so it could go down to half-mast whenever one of his books got remaindered. Unfortunately the cord has now broken.And one day the cord that links the present day to Souvenir’s bedroom beginnings must break, too. Hecht never married, has no heir, no successor. The office will, aptly enough, probably become a souvenir shop, like most of its neighbours on Great Russell Street – unless the British Museum takes it over and displays it as an artefact. He will leave behind his backlist and, even more significantly, the Ernest Hecht Charitable Foundation, which has the aim of “making a difference to people’s lives”.In what one hopes will be a long meantime there will be more champagne, more football and more eclectic, imaginative, unusual books. There really ought to be an autobiography, too. “No.”“Oh, come on.”“Seriously, I’m not doing it.”“Why not?”“Publishers’ books never sell.”