Sex and disability are rarely thought of in tandem, and when they are it’s more often than not in the context of a heterosexual, long-term relationship. That’s not me. I’m a gay man and have a fairly stereotypical lifestyle for someone in his mid-20s in central London.Sex and disability: yes, the two can and should go together | Fran Vicary There is, however, one big difference between me and my fellow gay men. I have severe cerebral palsy. I use a wheelchair, I have jerky involuntary movements, I rely on assistants 24/7 and I have a speech impairment. At the same time I have a good sex life and really enjoy challenging men’s conceptions of disability.My assistants can always tell by the sudden change in my movements that it’s time for them to go on one of their walks. This is the euphemism which has been agreed for a very long time. I’m an active Grindr user and my assistants are now entirely used to me sitting there on the hook-up app while they feed me my dinner rather than feeling apprehensive around that infamous orange glow.The assistants always disappear one way or another before any encounter. I keep what I tell guys to a minimum. I know they are somewhat perplexed by the entire set-up; in any case, we both have something else on our minds. It doesn’t help that I live in student accommodation and quite often the guys think my panic cord flushes the toilet. Not only does this set off a very loud alarm which sends my involuntary movements through the roof, but security are at the door within seconds.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Medically speaking things could be improved: 56 Dean Street are fantastic with generic sexual health concerns, but don’t have much experience of cerebral palsy.’ Photograph: Chelsea and Westminister NHSGuys my age often panic at my movements. People walk towards me and then turn back. When I check my phone I see that I’ve been blocked (even though I do emphasise the extent of my impairment many times before meeting). I know plenty of my non-disabled comrades also get blocked, but it took some time to get used to. I remind myself that it’s just sex and nothing more. Though I date boys my own age, when it comes to Grindr I generally go for guys around 40 as they tend not to have any issues with my movements. I meet around three a week (if not more) and have rarely had a bad time. I often have a reality check when I go home to the much smaller city in the UK where I grew up to find that sex is not available on demand.This raises a few issues. I am unable to masturbate. I rely on others. Is this dignified? Luckily I have had many, many great experiences. I acknowledge that not everyone who has issues with masturbation may feel comfortable asking men on Grindr (especially if they are straight) to help them perform the deed and possibly go further, yet it would automatically, by definition, turn into sex work if I relied on paid support. I am not sure of the best solution.Treating disabled people as asexual is exasperating and offensive | Penny Pepper Medically speaking things could be improved: 56 Dean Street are fantastic with generic sexual health concerns, but – no surprises here – they don’t have much experience with patients who have cerebral palsy. And yet my neurologist gives me the impression that she doesn’t believe that any of her patients have sex lives so when I have questions I have no one to compare myself to. Physios, it seems, can be prudish.When I joined Grindr 18 months ago, I’d never even had an encounter with a man. I was certain of my sexuality for many years, but I’d convinced myself that sex would be off the cards unless it was in the context of a very stable relationship. Since getting Grindr, I have met around 60 men and have found the experience unbelievably rewarding and liberating. The health benefits have been enormous and there’s no denying it’s been a lot of fun. I don’t forget how disabled I am and I often admire how open-minded these men are. It is a far cry from how I am often treated in public. I guess you could argue it’s a case of equality between the sheets rather than in the streets.