In Gimlet’s new podcast, Heavyweight, the affable Jonathan Goldstein makes a promise. And that’s to “mince, wheedle, mealymouth, cajole and backpedal my way into the past like a therapist with a time machine”.This is something he’s skilled at, telling stories of ordinary people who have a feeling that life should have taken a different turn somewhere. As the podcast unfolds, he leads his subjects back to that crucial moment when things went wrong and then helps them confront it so they can move on.If that sounds self-indulgent, it isn’t. Goldstein’s 80-year-old dad, Buzz, is his first subject as he tries to reunite him with his older brother, Sheldon, before it’s too late. “For the past 40 years, they’ve pretty much been on the outs,” he explains. The brothers spar, reminisce and have a spot of filthy “cigar talk”.Next up is Goldstein’s friend Gregor, who has witnessed people around him becoming “CEO, EVP, SVP, senior whatever”. Each one’s success shines a spotlight on what he sees as his own failure. His ship hasn’t come in. One event in his past rankles over all others. He’s haunted by the moment, 20 years ago, when he lent a poor, balding, techno musician friend a box set of CDs.In comes a snippet from his “really interesting CDs” and it becomes obvious who he’s talking about: the songs were sampled on the multi-million-selling album Play. “This guy’s Moby,” he reveals. It’s a story that sounds far-fetched, but all Gregor wants is to get his CDs back. He went through a stage of leaving messages on Moby’s answering machine, where he changed the words of Bryan Adams’ Heaven to “Moby, give me back my CDs”. It didn’t work.Goldstein’s understated style leaves the listener wondering if the whole thing’s a tongue-in-cheek invention or a very clever form of psychology. Or both. But it doesn’t matter because it’s so enthralling. As he forces Gregor to go to Moby’s house and ask him for those CDs, the results are warm and funny. “I don’t even have a CD player any more,” protests Gregor as he gets cold feet. When he finally comes face-to-face with his genial techno nemesis, it creates a real hide-behind-your-iPad moment of toe-curling delight.If you like this, try … Other Gimlet offerings, including StartUp, Reply All and Mystery Show.