Richard MacLean Smith is unspooling a remarkable story about his grandad during the second world war. “He was in a mid-air crash and his plane got cut in half,” says the creator of the Unexplained podcast. “The pilot had a parachute and jumped out, but my grandad didn’t have one because he was a navigator and it would have got in his way. As the plane went into a tailspin, he thought there was no way he would survive. But suddenly, a parachute came out of nowhere and hit him on the chest.” Then comes the real twist. “I found out recently that at the very moment the parachute hit him, my grandad had a vision of an old woman in the plane. At the same time, his mother had gone to see a medium because she’d been told he was missing, presumed dead. The medium told her he was still alive – and being looked after by an elderly relative.”This kind of story is Unexplained’s bread and butter. MacLean Smith describes his podcast, which returns this week, as “more paranormal than supernatural”. A surprise hit since it launched last January, Unexplained has already been streamed more than four million times, and reached number two in the iTunes charts (behind juggernaut pod Serial). With episodes on the Pontefract Poltergeist, occultist Aleister Crowley and the real-life story behind The Exorcist, plus the promise of an investigation into time-slips in Liverpool and “a British-based story of an unsolved crime”, it’s distinctly uneasy listening.   Distinctly uneasy … occultist Aleister Crowley. Photograph: Keystone/GettyYou only have to hear the episode on the Hexham Heads, two grotesque carvings found in a garden, to become hooked. Legend has it that they could move by themselves and summon a horrific creature that was part-man, part-ram to a suburban home to lurk in the bedrooms. The way MacLean Smith tells the story is logical and detached, so the mental images his words conjure up are all the listeners’ own. “Listening intently is a form of removing yourself from reality and taking a trip into your own world, where things are less concrete and space is limitless,” he says. “These are stories that play on our deepest fears, that provoke and unsettle the imagination.”Another episode focuses on John and Florence Pollock, whose children were killed by an out-of-control car on the way to church in the 1950s. The couple later had twins. One was born with the same birthmark as their dead sister, while the other had the same scar – and they both claimed to have memories of their dead siblings’ childhoods. “It’s understandable that they might immortalise them through their next children,” says MacLean Smith, well aware he’d tapped into the fear of losing a child, “but it also plays with the idea of reincarnation.”Each story ends without conclusion, as MacLean Smith is keen to leave the mystery open-ended. While his day job is in drama development, he’s always been fascinated by horror and the paranormal and has spent years searching for stories that have never been debunked. Finally, in 2015, he decided to start a podcast then soon settled on a title.The next day, he walked into a charity shop and found himself standing before a shelf of old magazines named Unexplained. The coincidence confirmed to him he’d chosen the right name. At first, he recorded it in his living room, which he had to soundproof with towels. Episode two made it on to iTunes’ New and Noteworthy, which propelled it. “In a very pathetic way, I was refreshing my phone all day to see if it had moved up the charts – then it went to number two,” he says, modestly. As it gained momentum, he panicked about how to sustain the success. He needn’t have worried.“People have always become interested in esoteric things at uncertain times and we’re in a pocket of that now, catalysed by what’s happening in America,” he says, before adding: “Of course, there’s no such thing as certainty – apart from death.” It’s this fear of death that drove him to investigate the unknown. “I had my mid-life crisis quite young,” he says. (He’s 35 now.) As a teen, he watched his grandad die and was struck by how petrified he was. “When you’re a kid, you assume everybody’s fine with death, like: ‘It’s our turn, we’ll go now.’ It was an eye-opener to see an older person just as scared of dying as I was. I’d never not be terrified.”But exploring the unexplained hasn’t done much to allay his fears. “As an atheist I would dearly love there to be an afterlife, and if the stories I’m exploring were true there would be comfort in that,” he says. “But perhaps it’s better to have the mystery. If we found out there were angels, aliens and the afterlife it wouldn’t take long before it became accepted and mundane rather than extraordinary.”Unexplained series one is on iTunes, and series two starts on Acast on 25 January.