If you’ve been waiting for a buck against the trend of “difficult” television, you’ll be happy with Newton’s Law. Pitched as a softer, sweeter Rake meets SeaChange, the show is exactly what you’d expect from a weeknight ABC legal family drama from SeaChange’s creator.Our everyday heroine, Claudia Karvan’s Josephine Newton, is at a crossroads: trial-separating from her partner, taking up a job at a commercial law firm and maintaining her own smaller practice to keep helping the little guys. About two steps away from a sitcom with a laugh track, each episode – at least, the first two I’ve previewed – is structured around both a legal case and a personal drama. The supporting cast – including the lovely and familiar faces of Georgina Naidu of SeaChange and Sean Keenan of Glitch – is full of lovable oddballs who skew the genre over to comedy and heighten the dramatic tone to something weirder and bigger than everyday life.Bride and Prejudice: why does reality TV continue to disappoint us? | Simon Copland It’s not entirely clear who Josephine is yet. We know that as a barrister, she has a brilliant legal mind, with an emotional intelligence and intuition that allow her to outsmart her opponents in a boys’ club. But although she’s exceptional, she’s relatable. She’s a working mother, a single woman, a professional whose job often confronts her ethics and whose family commitments have slowed her career progress.As a character, Josephine offers us an escapist break from the darkness and amorality of much other contemporary TV in Australia, which is dominated by people who are neither goodies or baddies; protagonists who are also antagonists. Saint Josephine is decidedly aspirational: she has none of the neediness of Josh Thomas (Please Like Me), or the moroseness of Jack Irish. Compared with Karvan’s other creations, Josephine lacks the messiness of Frankie (Love My Way) and the highly strung eccentricity of Suzy (the horribly undervalued and deeply romantic Spirited). She has nothing that approaches the blind neurosis of Laura Gibson (SeaChange) let alone the rampant addictions of Cleaver Greene (Rake).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘An escapist break from the darkness’: Claudia Karvan as Josephine. Photograph: ABCThe picture of dysfunction Newton’s Law avoids is even more twisted on overseas screens. After seven years, Ilana and Abbi of Broad City are as clueless at life as ever, with the show remaining dedicated to the theme of personal non-growth. Six seasons in, and the self-involved women of Girls still don’t know what they want. And that’s not even mentioning the archetypical antiheroes: the morally compromised male protagonists of Walter White, Don Draper, Tony Soprano and Frank Underwood. Twenty years after Seinfeld, almost nobody hugs or learns on television: amorality is the new norm.The message of Newton’s Law, at least its first two episodes, is much more wholesome: try, and keep trying in small yet significant ways, and your life will change for the better in an ever-upswelling arc of advancement.Little Lunch: the mockumentary series for kids – and one of Australia’s best shows And that might be the joy of the show. It depicts an idyllic universe in which people try their hardest, forgiveness is always extended and problems are neatly solved at the end of the hour. Josephine’s world is a kind, self-correcting place, close enough to the one we recognise (the familiar urban landscape of Melbourne) but just far away enough from the open-ended grind of daily life that it holds real appeal. She’s stretched to her limit, but rising to it. She’s a person who’s trying. She’s like you or me, but better.Newton’s Law could have been made at any time in the past 20 years: the characters are affable and the dramatic stakes are low. And there’s space in the TV landscape for that kind of show. After the moral ambiguities and sometimes stressful viewing experiences of the rest of today’s television, Newton’s Law is an attractive and relaxing thing indeed: a 50-minute weekly holiday from the hurricane of reality. • Newton’s Law is on ABC TV on Thursdays at 8.30pm