Returning to full-time work after maternity leave is a daunting prospect for any new mum, but starting a new career that fits in with family life can be an even bigger challenge. Two-thirds of women returning to work after a career break, such as taking time out to look after children, go back into lower-skilled or lower-paid roles, according to research from PwC.When former marketing manager Lindsey Fish was coming to the end of her maternity leave, the dilemma was not wanting her child to be in daycare for long hours while she worked full-time. This sparked a lightbulb moment that saw her give up a successful career in the city to launch her own events business, one that could ultimately help other mums explore the alternatives to the nine to five.'Tinder meets NCT' … and other apps targeting parent problems “I had a major challenge deciding what to do after my maternity leave,” says Fish. “Then I realised that every single mum I spoke to was facing the exact same dilemma. It became clear to me that what everyone really wants is control of their own time and their working day.” Fish saw an opportunity to provide access to the help and support women need to achieve this control, whether through flexible working or by starting their own business.It resulted in the launch last year of the Mums Enterprise Roadshow, a series of events aimed at helping ambitious mums re-train, find flexible work, or start their own business. The events offer expert advice, support, workshops, and access to the opportunities that can arise simply by connecting with other mums. With her passion for events – Fish had previously run a small corporate events business – she decided to explore her idea for the Mums Enterprise Roadshow, first by assessing the likely demand. She surveyed mums, across a number of channels, including through her Facebook page and networks such as the Talented Ladies Club and Mums UnltD, asking them if they would attend such a show and what topics they would like to see discussed.“Asked if they would attend the type of show I was planning, 88% of respondents [of around 80] said yes, so I knew I was onto something,” says Fish, who is mother to Molly, three, and is due to have her second child in June.Fish was then joined by her friend and business partner Lucy Chaplin, now Mums Enterprise Roadshow’s creative director, and together they brought the concept to life. The first show took place in Hertfordshire in June 2016, attracting around 100 mums looking for inspiration, some of whom have since gone on to successfully launch their own businesses.One such attendee was Helen White, whose career in management came to an end when her company relocated from Hertfordshire to London. With two young children, she felt the extra travel was a compromise too far. But she wasn’t giving up her career ambitions, and began exploring ideas for her own business. Out of curiosity, White attended the Mums Enterprise Roadshow and was overwhelmed to meet so many women in the same position as her.She says: “There was a network I never knew existed of mums at the start of their journey, as well as those who now had established new businesses and were willing to share their experiences.” White was impressed by the focus on teamwork and took away much useful information on starting and running a business. “Although I hadn’t intended to start working on my business until September, I was so fired up that I started straight away,” she adds. She now runs Brilliant Together, which provides support for startups and small businesses.Similarly, the show was a game-changer for Lucy Standing who was plotting her future venture ViewVo, a business that provides opportunities for budding entrepreneurs to shadow experts, or mentors, already successful in running businesses.She says: “I was going [to the show] to scope it out, fact find, and network. I loved the speed-networking event, where you had a minute to pitch to a small group, some of whom were there to listen and be inspired, and others, like me, looking for information. The show was instrumental in getting my business up and running.”Both women will be exhibiting at the next event in Brighton on Thursday, with the aim of making new connections, winning new business, and inspiring others by sharing their experiences.Over 1,000 people have pre-registered for the event, which has taken the founders seven months to organise. Fish believes that part of its appeal is due to the fact that both she and Chaplin, mother of 15-month-old Ruby, can empathise with the mums who attend. The first two events in 2016 cost £35 to attend, but now admission is free.She says: “We have been in their shoes, and can organise a show that is realistic and honest about the challenges of starting a business because we’ve been through them. The one thing we don’t do is tell them how easy it is, because it isn’t.”Getting their social enterprise business, which they funded through their own savings, off the ground took its toll. The events themselves cost from £15,000 to £25,000 to run, while revenue is generated through sponsorship, and it takes time to gather momentum. Having self-funded their venture, the pair ended their first year of trading with a loss.How to juggle babies and business “I lost £10,000 in year one,” admits Fish. “However, we are on track to break even with our Brighton event, and actually expect to make a small profit of around £2,000. To get to that position in less than a year is very encouraging, and with plans for two more events later this year, we are hopeful that profits will continue to rise.”In the meantime, the duo continue to live on their partner’s respective salaries while their business grows. Fish says: “We are fortunate in that Lucy and I have partners who are breadwinners, but it was very hard for my other half when I lost money he didn’t expect me to lose.”Fish and Chaplin’s goal is to grow a nationally-recognised business show comprising of 10 events per year. For now Fish says there are no plans to hire external support, although they will look to employ some mums to work with them in 2018 and beyond on a freelance basis. In the meantime, family and friends help them out on the day of the events.“We know that these events provide the inspiration for mums who come in search of support and the chance to connect with other like-minded people. They leave feeling fired up, full of confidence, and believing that they can go on to achieve something.”The next Mums Enterprise Roadshow event takes place in Brighton on February 23. Sign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.