Channel 4 is to launch the follow-up to its acclaimed Superhumans TV ad for the London Paralympics, with a three-minute ad for next month’s Rio Games featuring more than 100 disabled people from all walks of life.The new ad has taken a completely different tone, replacing the hip-hop of Public Enemy’s Harder Than You Think with Sammy Davis Jr’s swing classic Yes I Can recorded by a band of disabled musicians. “Public Enemy was about strength and defiance, which fitted the job in 2012,” said Dan Brooke, chief marketing and communications officer at Channel 4. “Now we want to be warm and celebratory and that fits with the point in the journey the Paralympic movement is on, to be mainstream and inclusive. But it also fits with Brazil, which has an image as a fun-loving upbeat place, the carnival aspect of Brazil.”The three-minute ad features no fewer than 120 people with disabilities in a cast of over 150.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Channel 4’s Rio Paralympics adAlongside almost 40 Paralympians are 16 musicians and 53 non-athletes. The non-athletes are depicted doing a variety of tasks, from everyday things like brushing their teeth and cooking to flying a plane by foot.“We have a wide public service remit championing diversity,” said Brooke. “That was the starting point for trying to define what Superhumans meant [this time], not just athletes but anyone with a disability.”In January, the broadcaster announced 2016 as a “year of disability” where it aimed to increase the representation of disabled people in broadcasting. Channel 4 has been true to its word with its Paralympics coverage. Brooke says that 75% of the presenters, who include Breaking Bad actor RJ Mitte, and 10% of the production staff have disabilities.The ad will get its first airing on TV in a “road block” at 9pm on Friday night running simultaneously across Channel 4’s portfolio of channels.It will form part of a wider campaign, which will include posters, press and billboard ads, under the banner “We’re the Superhumans”.Brooke said that Channel 4 had not yet opened discussions about the TV rights for the 2020 Paralympics in Tokyo.Mark Atkinson, the chief executive of disability charity Scope, said that the attitude change that came on the heels of the London 2012 Paralympics has worn off.“The London 2012 Games celebrated Paralympians as sporting equals and changed perceptions of disabled people,” said Atkinson. “But four years on, 62% of disabled people still say they are treated differently because of their impairment. We know people also make assumptions about what disabled people can and can’t achieve.”He said that the latest Channel 4 Paralympics campaign was a welcome boost to the ongoing challenge of changing public assumptions and attitudes.“It’s refreshing to see such powerful and positive representations of disability in Channel 4’s new Superhumans advert,” he said. “We hope this ad and the coverage of the Rio Paralympics this summer continue to challenge assumptions about what disabled people can achieve and change attitudes to disability.” 