You know what question you never hear asked: “Who would direct the metaphorical Brexit movie?” Please. That gig was decided before the turn of the millennium. The minute he working-classed his way into our lives with Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, mockney fauxteur Guy Ritchie effectively optioned the Brexit sensibility, back then just a glint in Bill Cash’s madder eye. Like Brexit, Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels wasn’t actually written as a comedy. But Ritchie was given a small box of sharp editing tricks designed to disguise glaring script defects. In many ways, I’m amazed he’s not trade secretary now.MasterChef’s Gregg Wallace fears the public will judge his young, fourth wife The man responsible for cinema’s Vinnie Jones, Ritchie was as at home dining at the Ivy with Michael Portillo as he was completely ruining Madonna by encouraging her to bore on about pheasant shooting and whatnot. Quite how you can look at the arch-priestess of the Like a Prayer video and think she’d be somehow improved by being driven around in a Land Rover wearing a Barbour – like the mothers of the girls Lost in Showbiz went to boarding school with – I have no idea. It was an act of total cultural sacrilege. And despite intensive restoration work since their divorce, the lost treasures can never be entirely recreated.That was then. As for our sceptred/septic isle, here we are now – a liberated nation in search of new stories to tell itself. Or rather, in search of the old stories, but with an added kickboxing montage. So do imagine Britain’s good fortune – or is it simply destiny? – in the fact that there is a Guy Ritchie film right around the corner. This May will see the release of King Arthur: Legend of the Sword. Not only is it one of Britain’s quintessential myths, but it is the first of a six-film series – SIX - on the Arthurian legend that Ritchie is to gift us. And David Beckham’s in it! No idea who’s playing Morgana Le Fay – I’m assuming it’s Andrea Leadsom – but I hope you’re finally beginning to understand why people are talking about a major export boom.Beckham is playing “a disgruntled knight”, in what he doesn’t seem to have realised comes across as a joke at his own expense. After all, it was barely 10 minutes ago that emails were leaked detailing David’s unsuccessful attempts to get a knighthood. He was certainly disgruntled, with my favourite outburst to his agent running: “If I was American I would of got something like this 10 years ago.” Makes you think, doesn’t it?Anyway, at least his mate Guy is letting him dress up as a knight. And they are mates, as Ritchie’s assiduously Instagrammed three-day wedding was at pains to emphasise. I’m not precisely sure how Ritchie acquired Beckham, but assume it’s much as Clive James once wrote of Stefan Zweig: “Everyone who mattered in the European cultural world knew him. It was one of his gifts. He believed in the sociability of the civilised.”Linda Robson reveals Pendolino loo trauma but keeps quiet on Brexit For his part, the former England football captain this week posted a teaser picture from the set, in which he is shown made up with dramatic facial scarring. In a previous interview with the Times that touched on the role, Beckham revealed: “I had 13 lines and practised a huge amount beforehand.” No matter how much you’ve read about Beckham’s tireless training ethic down the years – and I regard myself as a completist – the thought of him out there in the park till all hours doing keepy-uppies with a bit of Ritchie dialogue is admirable indeed. (In the strictest interests of accuracy, the script has been written by someone else, but reports of “football puns” inserted into Beckham’s scene by Ritchie himself cannot be safely discounted. Given that he’d never even seen Vinnie Jones play football when he cast him in Lock Stock, we can only hope he left the task to someone slightly more expert.)Still, there we have it. If you can think of anything more triumphantly Brexit than a Guy Ritchie six-movie epic about King Arthur, then Lost in Showbiz would like to see it. (I mean, not literally SEE it, except on Netflix while drunk.) It is the perfect symbolic marriage of director, material and historical moment, and it falls to every single one of us to feel optimistic about our new horizons.