reGeneration3, DerbyAs the off-year episode of its biennale FORMAT international photography festival, Derby’s QUAD presents reGeneration3, curated by Lausanne’s Musée de l’Elysée. Featuring work by some 50 students of 25 different nationalities and 40 art institutions, the exhibition aims to give a cross-sectional insight into photographic trends. These include a shift away from documentary prints to include digital collage, lens-based multi-media, independent book publishing and a use of combined image and text that reflects online news and social media. There is also a co-related tendency towards cultural bewilderment and social alienation. Ola Lanko’s Romantic Act Of Reason shows a living room claustrophobically packed with a pile-up of disparate snaps, whilst in her Testament series, Jennifer B Thoreson depicts family relationships entangled in giant amoebic blobs and ectoplasmic emissions.Derby QUAD, Sat to 12 JunRCRichard Forster, Bexhill-on-SeaWith the US experiencing something of an identity crisis, it is a timely moment to see Richard Forster’s new work, which draws on the history of Levittown. This suburban housing project in Pennsylvania, built in 1947, has so much of what one might associate with the great bits of the US: there was an admirable postwar efficiency to the production of the 15,000 identical houses, each of which took under 20 minutes to erect. Forster has long been interested in social experiments and architectural innovation. His drawings frequently hover between abstraction and realism, a wavering that perhaps mirrors the original utopian dreams of such schemes and the glumly prosaic reality that inevitably unfolds.De La Warr Pavilion, Sat to 5 JunOBFranciszka & Stefan Themerson, LondonIn Warsaw in the 1930s, Franciszka and Stefan Themerson had been film-makers, creating five short films together. When war enveloped Poland, the pair’s creative endeavours were interrupted, and by the time they finally settled in London only one of these experimental works, The Adventure Of A Good Citizen – a metaphorical story in which a man attempts to walk backwards in the street – survived. Over here, the couple would make more films, featured in this rare survey; however, they did not confine themselves to camerawork. In 1948 they set up a publishing company together, Gaberbocchus Press, whose aim was to produce “best-lookers” rather than bestsellers, while Franciszka became involved in a diverse array of activities, including theatre design for a 1964 Stockholm production of Ubu Roi.Camden Arts Centre, NW3, to 5 JunOBTruth And Memory, YorkAlthough such major figures of British painting and sculpture as Wyndham Lewis and Jacob Epstein had in previous years tended to celebrate the dynamic futurism of the machine age, the first world war suddenly brought home its darker possibilities for human cruelty and degradation. The most truthful memory in this extensive show, touring from London’s Imperial War Museum, is undoubtedly Paul Nash’s ironically titled painting We Are Making A New World, a desolate and deserted landscape of burnt-out tree trunks – deserted, except for the dead.York Art Gallery, to 4 SepRCMaud Sulter, Bradford      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Maud Sulter’s TerpsichoreMaud Sulter, who died in 2008 aged just 47, said she aimed “to put black women back in the centre of the frame”; this exhibition should restore her rightful standing as a significant figure of late-20th-century issue-based photo-art. Of Scottish-Ghanaian descent, Sulter reinterpreted the white western establishment tradition of portraiture from a black feminist perspective. Always carefully composed, skilfully printed and immaculately framed, her images hold their own authoritative presence despite her thematic subversions. Whether creating a portrait of Terpsichore, the mythical muse of dance, or posing herself as Charles Baudelaire’s real-life muse, the Haitian “Black Venus” Jeanne Duval, Sulter portrays subjects of defiant grandeur.Impressions Gallery, Fri to 4 JunRCEva Grubinger, LondonYou might not think it nice to describe Eva Grubinger’s new sculptures as being irritating things but, rest assured, this is the artist’s intention. The five works in this solo show are based on enlarged vexier puzzles. These are those small sculptural conundrums that set one the distracting task of disentangling the interconnecting elements (which might be pieces of string, metal or wood). Yet Grubinger tests our limits further here: the etymology of “vex” is to shake or disturb – both of which are impossible with the artist’s larger-than-life immovable versions.Bloomberg Space, EC2, Fri to 28 MayOBShelagh Wakely, LondonShelagh Wakely was born adventurous. Most of her childhood was spent running wild in the Lake District, and if anyone is searching for the origins of her interest in nature, expressed through her early championing of an installation art focused on ephemera and space (at a time in the 1970s and 80s when her peers were more interested in monumental sculpture), they might find it here. They would also be sensible to note Wakely’s longstanding interest in Brazil and the influence its modernist avant garde had in shaping her work. Inspired by her friendship with the artist Tunga, whom she met in London in 1989, Wakely travelled the Latin American country and studied Candomblé, the African-Brazilian religion. Indeed, there is a kind of ethereal magic to her work, especially Spring Snow, the floor installation on show here, in which a sea of pink tissue paper, light, delicate, poetic and intriguing, spreads across the floor.Richard Saltoun Gallery, W1, Fri to 13 MayOB