When Cynthia Erivo learned Joseph Fiennes had been cast as Michael Jackson for the upcoming comedy based on the pop singer’s life, she took to Twitter to express her anger. Erivo isn’t just a random Twitter user venting in 140 characters. While perhaps not a widely familiar name in the US, Erivo is an award-winning British actor who happens to have more than 13,000 Twitter followers paying attention to her online commentary about the current state of affairs for black actors, both on Broadway and off. It’s a frequent topic in her feed. She has expressed particular disappointment in Hollywood films and TV shows, whose lack of diverse representation has been gaining more critical attention lately, thanks to #OscarsSoWhite.Move over Whoopi! How Cynthia Erivo made The Color Purple her own  Erivo’s own state of affairs these days seems to be stable, even soaring. She currently plays a powerful, unforgettable Miss Celie in the revival of The Color Purple, which opened at Broadway’s Jacobs Theatre in December, and she is joined by a cast of actors who bring impressive credentials with them. There’s Joaquina Kalukango, who plays Nettie, and Danielle Brooks, who embodies Sophia with the full range of emotions Alice Walker wrote into her original character. Kalukango arrived at the Jacobs with a Helen Hayes Award and Drama Desk nomination in hand, while Brooks, also an award winner, was a more familiar face because of her role as Taystee in Orange is the New Black.Sitting in the theater and watching The Color Purple, as well as the diverse audience and its reaction to the show – “My life is changed,” said one woman seated in front of me at a recent performance – it’s hard not to feel as if Broadway is finally reaching a tipping point. The Great White Way is no longer quite so white. This is all the more true when you step outside the Jacobs. Look right, and you’ll see Forest Whitaker’s name in lights above Broadway for the first time; he plays the lead role in Eugene O’Neill’s Hughie. Look left, and you’ll see promotions for Eclipsed, a play that had an incredibly successful run at The Public Theater. “This season is such a big deal,” says Andrew Shade, founder of the website Broadway Black. For one thing, he says, the variety of roles for which black actors have been cast in these and other shows not only makes space for multiple kinds of experiences and stories to be told, but also makes room for actors of color to play roles for which they were rarely, if ever, considered in the past. One such example is Sophie Okonedo, who will star in The Crucible, opening this spring at Walter Kerr theatre. Dan Murray, chair of drama at the South Carolina Governor’s School for the Arts, agrees that Broadway seems to be approaching a tipping point. Murray, who taught Danielle Brooks, has watched a host of his former students rise to prominence – among them Nicole Beharie, Susan Heyward, Patina Miller and Teyonah Parris, who starred in Spike Lee’s Chi-raq. “When I began in the 1990s black actors were pigeonholed into some set categories,” Murray says. “They had opportunities to play one-dimensional stereotypes. Some of these were negative. Others were just uninteresting. Actors like to play characters with contradictions and complexities. These roles just weren’t there.” Murray credits actors such as Don Cheadle and Viola Davis for chipping away at the institutional racism of Broadway and Hollywood. “Now we have many more dimensional opportunities for actors of color. Writers have also begun to write better roles for black actors, and casting directors have taken more risks, casting black actors in roles that may have been written with white actors in mind. There’s a ways to go yet, but it’s a new landscape.”  Sophie Okonedo and Teyonah Parris Photograph: Rex & Wireimage Murray says his students and graduates are ready to play a range of roles, and he’s been gratified to see Brooks and Miller, for example, begin getting the kinds of roles they deserve. “Patina [Miller] won the Tony two years back for her lead actress turn in the musical Pippin, and appears in Madame Secretary (TV), and was in the last two Hunger Games films,” Murray says. “Teyonah played the lead in Chi-raq, but she can also do Shakespeare. Before The Color Purple, Danielle did A Servant of Two Masters at the Guthrie theatre.”It’s exciting, he says, to see black actors finally getting to play characters that didn’t exist when he was coming up. Shade, of Broadway Black, agrees, and says the sudden visibility of black actors on Broadway will have important effects on theater’s future. Historically, he explained, producers have shied away from investing in the work of black playwrights or plays that reflect black lives and experiences because they thought these weren’t commercially viable. Although theaters don’t track ticket sales by race, it doesn’t take more than a quick look around at audiences to prove, Shade says, “that we are a valuable community and we have a valuable dollar that can maintain theater and help it survive”.The Color Purple review – Jennifer Hudson and Cynthia Erivo star in stripped-down musical Brandon Dixon, the actor who originated the role of Harpo in the 2005 Broadway production of The Color Purple, also says opportunities for diverse roles are determined by where and how producer money flows. “Generally speaking, I haven’t seen a dramatic increase in opportunities or the volume of more diverse stories or more diverse actors until this season,” Dixon says. “Investors are fairly conservative, and everything follows the money.”  Shade, who started the Broadway Black website because he was an actor who “wanted to see more images and opportunities for people like me”, says there’s plenty to celebrate, but there’s also lots more work to be done. While he doesn’t think this season’s fuller representation of black lives will be an anomaly – he expects more black playwrights and actors to be visible and active on the stage in coming seasons – he points out that theater criticism is one area that remains too white. Shows that get tepid reviews in previews are doomed, he contends, especially if they’re in publications such as the New York Times. A show isn’t “bad” because it doesn’t match your own life experience, but producers can use a show’s poor performance as a marker against which they make future investment decisions. “We have to have black reviewers,” Shade says.  Through his website, Shade is doing his part to ensure that black playwrights and actors, as well as plays that highlight black stories, are visible to all theatergoers. “I’m fighting against getting the voices of people of color snuffed out,” he says. “August Wilson always said, ‘It’s nothing to find a place in this world. You just start from where you find yourself.’ And that’s what I live by. I try to start and begin and do what I can in this moment, where I find myself right now. There is room for us at this table. Our stories can change lives.”