When looking for a home, there are few who would choose one that’s easier to rip down than renovate. Yet that’s exactly what designer Kali Cavanagh did when she bought a 150-year-old miner’s cottage in Daylesford, a popular spa town near her weekday home in Melbourne, Australia. “It was derelict and all the advice was to tear it down and start from scratch,” says Cavanagh. “But it had a charm I loved, and I could envisage what I could do with it.” That charm includes a veranda with colonial-style canopy, shutters and weathered wood cladding.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The arched windows were made for the living area after Cavanagh spotted a similar sash in a salvage yard. For similar colours to the charcoal walls, tryabigailahern.com. Find original Chesterfields atchesterfields.co.uk. Photograph: Sharyn CairnsShe levelled the warped floors, replaced the roof, and made the property structurally sound, moving doors, windows and rethinking the room layout.The single-storey house now features a large, open-plan living, dining and kitchen space that overlooks the wilderness of the bushland beyond. “I wanted a wall of windows that would frame the landscape,” she says. “There are black cockatiels in the trees, and the odd kangaroo hops around. It’s amazing to be that close to nature.” An old shed is now a one-bedroom garden room, complete with a tub and original ceiling beams, discovered during the renovations.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The black-metal, factory-style bathroom window was designed to open up completely, ‘so when it’s cold outside, it feels like you’re in an outdoor spa’;retrouvious.com has a good stock of salvaged windows. Photograph: Sharyn CairnsWalls are all white, grey and black), while vintage furniture and accessories in rich timber, battered leather Chesterfield sofas and patinated metal chairs add warmth.It’s an industrial, masculine look, she says, but with softer touches, such as floaty, neutral curtains and foliage. “I love it when I arrive here, light the fire, and breathe in all the beautiful bush smells.”House rulesYour pet interiors hate? When everything looks the same. I love small touches that make a space unique.What are your house rules? No internet connection.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   White metro tiles get an industrial edge with black grouting. Cavanagh discovered the old Chambers oven at a market in LA – tryeverhot.co.uk orsteel-cucine.com for retro cookers. Two-tone walls in the kitchen mirror those in the dining area. Photograph: Sharyn CairnsFirst piece of furniture you owned? The single bed that belonged to my mother, carved by my grandfather.Best things about your neighbourhood? Hot springs, the markets for a rummage, the local wine.Where do you relax? I love to read by the open fire, glass of wine in hand, looking out over the trees.What would we never see in your house? Bright colours: I prefer neutrals.