The Retreat With Nick Knowles 7pm, BBC2A gang of Brits undergo a harsh regime on a Thai island, complete with yoga and daily enemas (yes, really) to see whether “detoxing” can beat stress and increase life expectancy. Episode one sees them settle in, with leader Nick Knowles – who looks like he has beef and cigarettes for breakfast – joshing with a couple of DIY SOS builders he’s brought along. More seriously, some of the group are there hoping to alleviate conditions such as diabetes. Jack SealeJustice: What’s The Right Thing To Do? 7.50pm, PBS AmericaThis new series, which continues throughout the week, brings together lectures from one of Harvard’s most popular courses, Professor Michael Sandel’s Justice. This first episode sees the philosopher explore whether we can ever justify killing, as well as dissecting Jeremy Bentham’s theory of “the greatest happiness of the greatest number”. Thought-provoking, despite a slight over-reliance on the ethical “trolley problem”. Hannah J DaviesExtreme Food 8pm, Channel 4Kenyan chef-slash-action man Kiran Jethwa journeys to the world’s most spectacular places for a cookery show that’s more like some old-fashioned Hollywood epic where the backdrop’s as easy on the eye as the host. In the first of a new series, he’s in the frozen wastes of Mongolia, jeeping across the high plains and galloping on horseback with a golden eagle to catch wild rabbit for a pie. Clearly, we’ve come a long way from Delia Smith. Ali CatterallAleppo – Life Under Siege: Panorama 8.30pm, BBC1“What is Aleppo?” asked US presidential candidate Gary Johnson recently, in a major gaffe. If he’s still confused, he should watch this Paul McGann-narrated portrait of Syria’s largest city, currently divided between opposition-controlled east and government-controlled west. We witness not just the horror of living with everyday bombings but the courage of civil-defence volunteers risking their own lives in order to save others. David Stubbs50 Ways to Kill Your Mammies 9pm, Sky1Presenter Baz Ashmawy takes a group of sassy seniors – including his own 73-year-old mother – on a series of adrenaline-fueled adventures in this new gap year version of the third age travel show. This week, the group go to Costa Rica to abseil down a waterfall, ride the rapids and face a bungee jump. Don’t be put off by the title: inspiring bouts of bravery and the motley crew’s chemistry make this road-trip show a charming watch. Grace RahmanMorgana Robinson’s The Agency 10pm, BBC2An actor working in impressions builds a house on generally unfunny sand and, mindful of that, Morgana Robinson has tried to give her show a bit of additional conceptual weight. Her idea is a mockumentary following clients at a fictional talent agency which represents all the celebs she impersonates, such as Mel and Sue and Joanna Lumley. Maybe too much prominence is given to Natalie Cassidy, but the Gregg Wallace stuff is pretty decent. John RobinsonTrump vs Clinton Live: US Presidential Debate 1.45am, Channel 4The UK adopted televised election debates in 2010, but US presidential candidates have been engaging in their own heavily moderated, time-limited clashes since 1960. Live from Hofstra University on Long Island, Matt Frei presents coverage of the first of three scheduled face-offs and, considering Trump’s ability to freestyle absolute gibberish, it should be both entertaining and terrifying. Graeme VirtueFilm choiceWater For Elephants (Francis Lawrence, 2011) 6.40pm, Film4Old-fashioned charm floods this depression-era romantic drama, adapted from Sara Gruen’s bestseller. Twilight boy Robert Pattinson plays Jacob, who on the death of his parents finds work as a vet at the circus, where Christoph Waltz is the embittered owner and Reese Witherspoon his beautiful, showriding wife. You can see where this is all heading, but it’s an entertaining journey, and Rosie the elephant is a real star. Paul HowlettLive sportLive Test Cricket: India v New Zealand Coverage of day five of the First Test, held at Green Park in Kanpur. 6am, Sky Sports 3Live WTA Tennis: Wuhan Open Day one of the Wuhan Open in Tokyo, as the tournament enters its third year. 12pm, BT Sport 1Premier League Football: Burnley v Watford All the action from Turf Moor (kick-off 8pm). 7pm, Sky Sports 1