Pharrell Williams and Al Gore’s promise of a second round of Live Earth concerts on seven continents that would be broadcast to an audience of billions has been downgraded to a webcast in Paris, organisers have confirmed.Everything you need to know about the Paris climate summit and UN talks In January, the duo and producer Kevin Wall used the World Economic Forum in Davos to announce a global event that would reach 2 billion people across 193 television networks, with promotional materials promising 100 artists in seven shows. In May organisers delayed the event from a scheduled date of 18 June and said a free, public concert would be held in Paris in the autumn instead. But this week organisers told the Guardian that Live Earth had been reduced to an event on the 13 and 14 November at the Champ de Mars in Paris that will be closed to the public and streamed online instead.“It is taking a different form this year than the open concert of years past but some great musical talent has signed on to the 24 Hours event,” said a spokeswoman, referring to an annual 24-hour event held by Gore’s NGO, Climate Reality. She added: “We are partnering with several distribution partners worldwide to make sure this is the most accessible 24 Hours event in history.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An inflatable pig floats above the Live Earth New York concert during Pink Floyd member Roger Waters’ set in 2007. Photograph: Mike Segar/REUTERSDetails of the webcast distribution and the acts performing are due to be announced on Thursday.Williams, the project’s creative director, had said in January that: “Instead of just having people perform, we literally are going to have humanity harmonise all at once.” He was one of the performers in the original Live Earth concerts in 2007.Next week’s event, dubbed 24 Hours of Reality and Live Earth: The World Is Watching, comes just weeks before world leaders including Barack Obama and Xi Jinping head to Paris for a landmark UN climate change summit. Gore said the event is “about mobilising people around the world to help solve the climate crisis and making our voices heard in national capitals and at the negotiating table in Paris.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Pussycat Dolls perform at the Live Earth concert at Wembley stadium in London, July 2007. Photograph: Carl de Souza/AFP/Getty ImagesFrench president, François Hollande, and the Socialist mayor of Paris, Anne Hidalgo, will be taking part in the web event, along with former UN secretary general Kofi Annan, journalists, weather presenters, and campaigners.Wall said of the new plans: “The climate crisis is grave, so we are harnessing the best content and the latest in mobile, social media, and online distribution to make sure we can connect with people everywhere.”