Few shoes are as daunting to step into as those of Jane Tennison. The driven female detective played with ice-cold precision by Helen Mirren is one of television drama’s most memorable characters and you’d have to be very brave, or foolish, to mess with that image.“It helped that I didn’t realise quite how important the original series was until recently,” says Stefanie Martini, who plays a younger, more naive Tennison in the prequel Prime Suspect 1973, which starts on ITV on Thursday. “I just had to see it as a job that I was very fortunate to get and not to over-think or over-analyse it because that wouldn’t help.”She watched some of the original episodes “to understand the way that workplaces work and the energy that comes from being inside the investigation room”, but says she was wary of becoming too obsessed by Mirren’s award-winning performance.“Obviously it was invaluable to watch Helen and see who Jane Tennison is but my job was to find out how she gets there and after I’d watched a few episodes I found myself copying the way Helen did things, and that’s dangerous territory to get into because it’s not honest. So I stopped watching the original and went back to the script to see what Jane was like at that stage in her life.”The answer is very different from the Tennison audiences know and love, starting out in her career, eager, occasionally flustered, determined to get on and routinely sidelined by male colleagues who view her as a bit of middle-class fluff. “She’s very, very green,” says Martini. “But she’s still clearly the same person. She’s got this brilliance and determination and her own way of thinking about things.”It’s easy to question the desire to make a prequel to Prime Suspect and the production has not been without problems. The adaptation by Glen Laker draws on creator Lynda La Plante’s own prequel novel, Tennison, but La Plante herself stepped away from the project late last year amid reports that she was unhappy about the direction it was taking. “I don’t really know what happened but whatever it was went very smoothly,” says Martini. “Glen’s writing is great and I certainly never felt like it was a male portrayal of a woman. I think he’s been very careful about the way Jane is written because she’s such a specific character.”She clearly relates strongly to the role, perhaps in part because she too has been thrown in at the deep end in a fast-moving career. Now 26, she only graduated from the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art 18 months ago, almost immediately landing eye-catching roles in Doctor Thorne and Emerald City.Next up is Julian Fellowes’s starry adaptation of Agatha Christie’s Crooked House alongside Gillian Anderson, Christina Hendricks and Max Irons. “There are times when I can’t really believe I’m working,” she says.“I do just sit there and say OK, take a breath, these opportunities are fantastic. I’m really lucky to be getting all these very different characters to play.”Does she worry about Prime Suspect 1973 standing out in a landscape saturated with police shows, many of which have interesting female leads? The excellent cold case drama Unforgotten, starring Nicola Walker, has just finished on ITV, while this week will see the return of Broadchurch and Olivia Colman’s perpetually harassed Ellie Miller.“I know that there’s no way that Prime Suspect 1973 can be as groundbreaking as the original was,” she says. “Today Jane is one among many female detectives on TV and so many shows are tackling big issues of the kind that the first Prime Suspect did. It was a completely different time in television and I don’t think it’s possible for our show to have the effect on modern audiences that the original did. Hopefully people will see it is as telling the story from a new angle.”Despite the period setting and a cannily deployed 70s soundtrack, audiences shouldn’t tune in expecting Life On Mars-style laughs. “The nice thing about this show is that it doesn’t feel like the cool 70s or the fun 70s – Jane feels very trapped living at her parents’ home and while she loves her work it’s not glamorous or colourful. But the story feels fresh and hopefully that will draw people in. There’s so much television out there these days and audiences have a great deal to choose from but I think there’s an interest in seeing what Jane Tennison was like then and how she became the person we know.”