Four years ago a video was uploaded to YouTube, showing a young man on the London Underground, hidden behind sunglasses, buried under his headphones, singing along to Rihanna. The world laughed. Two and a half million people sniggered then shared, unaware that the man in that video, Alika Agidi-Jeffs, just like four million other people in the UK today, has bipolar disorder. Agidi-Jeffs is one of five people – including Stephen Fry – featured in the documentary The Not So Secret Life of a Manic Depressive: 10 Years On, which revisits some of those featured in Fry’s award-winning 2006 series about living with manic depression.“When I watch it I can remember exactly where my head was at, how much pain I was going through,” Agidi-Jeffs tells me after a meeting with his psychiatrist. “From a young age, I was known in my area as someone who was always listening to music and singing out. It was a good thing – a joyful thing. But looking at that video, it’s different. Behind the glasses I was in real pain.”These days, as shown in the documentary, Agidi-Jeffs spends much of his time talking to young people about mental health, as well as working on his music career. “In the lead up to it, I literally engulfed myself with work,” he explains. “I was keeping busy, busy, busy, so I didn’t have to deal with reality.” That Agidi-Jeffs was using music to distance and deaden the pain of his interior life makes the fact that a video of him singing brought things to a head ironic and awful in equal measure. “My therapy became my greatest harm,” he says wearily. “I thought, if the world looks at me like a clown, I might as well just knock myself out.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Public shaming is an omnipresent fear for the YouTube generation. Our reputations, like our health, can seem paper-thin – particularly for those in the creative industries. It is perhaps no coincidence that three of the five people featured in the documentary are artists. “We’re all obsessed with our profile, how people see you, how many likes you get – all that bullcrap,” says Agidi-Jeffs. “When you’re living in a world like that it can be very toxic.”After the release of the video, Agidi-Jeffs went into a downward spiral. He climbed on to his roof, apparently ready to kill himself, until his family called the police. He was arrested, dragged into a van and taken away. “It was traumatic, so scary,” he says, his voice quiet. “I’ve learned that there is a big difference in how people from different backgrounds are treated when they get taken to hospital for the first time. But most young people – white, black, Asian – find themselves in the back of a police van or in a police station before they realise that this isn’t a criminal – this is someone who needs help.” There certainly seems a distinction between the way Agidi-Jeffs was taken into hospital and the treatment received by Fry.“That happened in August or September, but my first hospitalisation wasn’t until January or February the next year,” says Agidi-Jeffs. “And I didn’t get the diagnosis until June. At the time, I didn’t even know what bipolar meant. I remember being very confused and sceptical, because I’d seen so many people in hospital lose their identity and just become their condition.”This is the message Agidi-Jeffs is most keen to communicate. “I want to remind everybody who’s going through this that they are not their diagnosis,” he says. “Don’t let it be what shapes you. When people have the flu they don’t go around saying ‘I am flu’. You might have bipolar, but you are not a sickness. It doesn’t define you.”For those living with someone in mental health crisis, Agidi-Jeffs’ advice is equally clear. “Being supportive isn’t rocket science,” he says. “Sometimes it’s just saying the words like ‘I care for you’ or ‘I worry about you’. When you’re in that state, you’re very critical and over-analytical. Hearing that somebody wants to help you can open so many doors.”The Not So Secret Life of the Manic Depressive: 10 Years On is on BBC1 tonight at 9pm.In the UK, the Samaritans can be contacted on 116 123. Other mental health support services are listed here.