If efforts to dam the Shell oil spill prove unsuccessful the final amount of oil leaked into the North Sea could be four times greater than it is at present, the company admitted on Wednesday.More than 200 tonnes of oil have already poured into the sea, with unknown effects on marine life, making it the worst spill in UK waters in the last 10 years. But Shell has estimated there could be up to 660 tonnes still in the affected pipeline.Conservation groups are worried the leak will harm marine life, including birds and fish, in the area around the Gannet Alpha platform, about 112 miles east of Aberdeen. Fishing fleets have been ordered to avoid the area, but the government hopes lasting damage to marine life will be slight as the oil has been dispersed by waves and is not expected to reach shore.Hugh Shaw, the Department of Energy and Climate Change official monitoring Royal Dutch Shell's response to the spill, said: "My view is that the oil leak is under control and has now been greatly reduced, as validated by remotely operated vehicle footage and … aerial surveillance flights. The priority now and over the coming days is to completely halt any further leakage in what is a complex environment."The government said measures to minimise the damage could include a containment device erected around the leak before further remedial work starts; that could ensure no more oil spills out during the clean-up. Building it would take days, if not weeks, but officials in Scotland favour doing so to avoid the risk of spillage.A Shell representative said: "Containment options are being progressed as a longer term option."Green campaigners and Scots politicians have also criticised Shell for being slow to publicise the problem and release sufficient information on containing the oil. Shell discovered the leak last Wednesday but did not make a public announcement until Friday evening. After the first leak was plugged, Shell found a problem with a relief valve that had opened up a secondary leak, whereby oil from the faulty pipeline continued to reach the sea. Although oil pumping into the pipeline has stopped, the residual oil in the pipe is now the main concern. Shell has still not been able to say why the leak occurred in the first place.Glen Cayley, technical director of Shell's exploration and production activities in Europe, based in Aberdeen, said: "We are making good progress in stopping the leakage from the flowline to the Gannet platform. The flow rate [of oil into the sea] currently stands at less than one barrel a day." About 216 tonnes or 1,300 barrels of oil are thought to have escaped from the leak in the first few days.Last year's BP spill in the Gulf of Mexico was estimated to be spilling up to 70,000 barrels a day. Green campaigners said the spill demonstrated the dangers of oil exploration, and called for an end to proposals to drill in the Arctic. Oil spills occur in the North Sea at the rate of about one a week, but most are not serious.Divers and remotely operated vehicles are being used to remove panels and gratings at the Gannet platform to assess the ability to close the leaking valve. Shell said that de-pressurising the line to stop the leak had led to the pipeline becoming more buoyant so "rock mattresses" had to be used to secure it. Cayley said the situation was under control. "We are working towards a swift solution. I cannot stress enough the need to undertake detailed risk assessments and ensure any work considered is undertaken safely."