Happy Valley9pm, BBC1Catherine is on to Miss Wheland and storms into the school for some answers. Meanwhile, a grisly discovery awaits her at Far Sunderland Farm, which she greets with her usual pragmatism. Can she shed light on the whole sorry mess and also consign Tommy Lee Royce to history once and for all? Or will the need for a third series doom Catherine to a neverending emotional obstacle course of muck, drizzle and spite? TV of the highest quality but, dear Lord, could she have a nice holiday now? Julia RaesideInside Obama’s White House9pm, BBC2Towards the end of political eras, documentarians gather, persuading witnesses to air their feelings. This four-part series does just that, tonight focusing on that media favourite: the first 100 days in office. Obama proposed major changes, including scaling back commitment to the war in Iraq and pledging to close Guantánamo Bay. Change, however, proved tough: the financial crisis (“his ‘holy shit’ moment”) required an immediate economic recovery package in the face of a oncoming depression. John RobinsonFirst Dates9pm, Channel 4Singletons sussing one another out in a “restaurant” presided over by a meddling maître d’ might not sound like the kind of thing to capture the nation’s hearts. First Dates has done just that, however, tempering awkwardness and shocking table manners with unexpected dollops of humanity. As series six kicks off, a burlesque dancer and a comic share their passion for performance; choirmaster Jay tells of coming out in the Muslim community; and Paolo struggles with prickly Gemma. Hannah J DaviesThe Estate We’re In10.45pm, BBC1The West Hendon council estate finds itself in the unfortunate position of being an irresistible illustration of London’s rampaging housing market. The somewhat dilapidated 1960s-built neighbourhood is already surrounded by deafening building works, and itself faces the wrecking ball, to be replaced by luxury apartments built in partnership with private developers. This doc, filmed over a year, meets residents, many of whom have lived here for decades, and few of whom appear keen to leave. Andrew MuellerMary Berry’s Easter Feast8pm, BBC2As you might expect, Mary Berry is a dab hand at preparing traditional Easter grub. Accordingly, this two-parter features reliable recipes for such seasonal staples as hot cross buns, simnel cake and roast lamb. More than this, Berry – a Christian who says her religion has helped her weather bad times – is fascinated by the relationship between faith and food, and also explores how different communities mark Lent and Good Friday. It’s a prelude to a second show next week featuring a multicultural Easter feast. Jonathan WrightThe Aliens9pm, E4With Lewis now under the thumb of manipulative extraterrestrial Lilyhot, he’s about to discover that last week’s nearly-being-buried-alive shenanigans are just the beginning of his problems. Lilyhot knows who Lewis’s alien dad is, but he’ll have to put himself and the hapless Dominic (Jim Howick) through some perilous prison-breaking before he can discover the truth. We also meet Troy’s most ruthless and most Welsh gangster Fabien. All much better than it sounds on paper, thanks mainly to Michael Socha’s Lewis. Ben ArnoldGeordie Shore10pm, MTVA 12th season of the social experiment in which young humans put their livers, dignity and genital health on the line in return for some kind of fame. There are two new cast members this year: Marty McKenna, who enjoys drinking and styling his hair; and Chantelle Connelly, who is feisty, loyal and opinionated. Who will these interlopers have sloppy rub-ups with first? And can the group’s plan to “smash Newcastle” possibly succeed? Contains scenes of a morbidly stupid nature, from the start and throughout. Jack Seale      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Liam Neeson and Non-Stop. Photograph: Moviestore/Rex/ShutterstockFilm choiceNon-Stop (Jaume Collet-Serra, 2014) 9pm, Film4Fasten your seatbelts, we’re in for a bumpy ride. Liam Neeson is an air marshal with personal baggage that’s way over the limit. But never mind, there’s a mysterious killer on board his New York to London flight murdering a passenger every 20 minutes, until a trunkload of money is deposited into his/her account. Paul HowlettDracula: Prince of Darkness (Terence Fisher, 1966) 12.40am, Horror ChannelThe Hammer movie that breathed new life – and sex appeal – into the horror film. No ugly monsters lurching about here; instead Christopher Lee’s elegant, seductive count preys on beautiful young women, from Transylvania to London. Staying close to Bram Stoker’s novel, it both thrills and chills, and also stars the great Peter Cushing as Dracula’s nemesis, Van Helsing. Paul HowlettToday’s best live sportWomen’s T20 World Cup cricket: India v Bangladesh The Group B contest from Banglalore. 9.55am, Sky Sports 2T20 World Cup cricket: New Zealand v India The big boys get involved in the tournament. 1.30pm, Sky Sports 2Champions League football: Manchester City v Dynamo Kiev City bring a 3-1 lead back to Manchester. 7pm, BT Sport EuropeNBA: San Antonio Spurs v Los Angeles Clippers The Western Conference match from AT&T Center. 12.30am, BT Sport 2• This preview was amended on 15 March 2016. An earlier version of the item on Happy Valley referred to a grizzly, rather than grisly, discovery.