Gertcha! I yelled and got back witchy little cackles from redwings in the treetops. I'd been keeping an eye on that particular holly for months. It berried early during the warm sunny days of autumn and looked unseasonably odd until surrounding trees dropped their leaves and wintry skies set its clusters of fat pillar-box red berries alight. I knew the birds would come, but they'd been slow on the uptake this year. The redwings, fieldfares and blackbirds which dived in from Scandinavia to join the stay-at-home thrush tribes always rifled through the holly trees here. If you wanted some for decoration, you had to pick your moment well. Invariably I got it wrong, but thought I might be in with a chance this year. The berriers usually went for yew and rowan first. Holly, I think, needs frost to release its sugars and be palatable to the birds.Even though this year saw a great crop of wild fruits, the birds held off on them through the warm weather until they'd had a few days of frost, icy winds and a flurry of snow. Then they went to work. Many good berry-bearing trees in these woods were cleaned out in a matter of hours. But the particular holly I had my eye on seemed to have avoided the birds' attention. It was growing in a hedge bank from the roots of an oak tree. The oak had been laid in the hedge, as were surrounding field maples and hollies over a century ago, and the trees had outgrown their hedgerow shape to become the boundary between a wood and a field. My guess was the hedgebank they grew on was medieval and the birds had foraged on these trees every winter for 500 years. Who was I to begrudge them their harvest?The morning I came to the tree with a bag and a pair of secateurs there was not a single berry left. I wandered Edge Wood, revisiting venerable hollies that had been planted by foresters centuries ago to nurse oaks and beech trees, and ancient holly clumps where the deer gave birth and found winter shelter. The leaves looked like polished green leather but the trees were all berryless. After about a mile of searching through the woods, I eventually found a runty little bush even the redwings hadn't bothered with.Now I could cut some berried sprigs to stick behind picture frames in our house this festive season, then burn them on Twelfth Night. So why bother? Why perpetuate a daft rustic superstition which held that diabolically prickly holly leaves offered protection from witchcraft and lightning; that the poisonous (to humans) berries represented a sacred blood; that holly had brought good fortune to households of people and animals long before Christmas and Saturnalia? Maybe it's because I'm a daft superstitious rustic. Gertcha!