The Young Adult Literature Convention (Yalc) returns to the London Film & Comic Con for a fun-filled weekend on 29 July 2016. This year’s Yalc is brimming with activities, discussions and workshops for teenagers and YA book fans. It features many of your favourite authors on a range of themes from magic to comedy to whether YA is diverse enough.Patrick Ness and all-day Harry Potter celebration are latest Yalc announcements Don’t miss out on meeting some the biggest literary names of the YA genre including: the return of Yalc founder, Malorie Blackman, Costa book award-winner Frances Hardinge, Kook novelist Chris Vick and Phillip Reeve. There is so much going on that the three day event promises to be a wonderful weekend.Which authors are going to be at Young Adult Literature Convention (Yalc) 2016? Here are some of the events that you can look forward to this year: Friday 29 JulyYA Book Prize 201610.00 - 10.45am — The long weekend kicks off with a celebration of the YA Book Prize 2016. Join chair of judges Charlotte Eyre and some of this year’s shortlisted authors for this very special event. Behind the magic: exploring magical systems in fantasy YA11.00 - 11:45am — Do you want to know how authors create magical worlds with a convincing magical system in the writing? Marc Aplin of Fantasy- Fiction will be joined by four leading fantasy authors, Sally Green, Taran Matharu, Melinda Sailsbury and VE Schwab. They will take you behind their pages in an exploration of how magic works in their books.Unheard Voices in YA12.00 - 12.45pm — A look at how diverse YA literature is today with three authors who write about topics such as race, class, gender and mental health. Patrice Lawrence, William Sutcliffe and Alex Wheatle will discuss how today’s YA can ensure that a wide range of teen voices are being heard.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   William Sutcliffe joins the panel to discuss how to make YA fiction represent a vast range of teenage voices Photograph: Murdo MacLeod for the Guardian‘She who laughs last laughs the laughiest’: Funny YA13.00 - 12:45pm — Join some of our favourite, funny, female authors, Holly Smale, Katy Birchall, Jenny McLachlan and Nat Luurstema in their discussion about hilarious heroines, humour, friendship and feminism. They will also be remembering the fantastically funny Louise Rennison.Patrick Ness: A Monster Calls14.00 - 14.45pm — The multiple award-winning A Monster Calls is soon to be a major motion picture. Join author Patrick Ness and actor Lewis MacDougall (who will be playing Conner) in this exclusive behind the scenes event and discussion about the transformation from page to screen.Fantasy London: Samantha Shannon, Ben Aranovitch, VE Schwab15. 00 - 15.45pm — Hosted by Katherine Webber, the three biggest names in fantasy fiction are brought together to discuss their writing and alternative visions for London.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Isn’t she fantastic: Samantha Shannon discusses her fantasy fiction stories Photograph: Karen Robinson for the ObserverFront Line: Michael Grant in conversation16.00 - 16.45pm — Don’t miss out on hearing from bestselling author Michael Grant who will be discussing his brand new re-imagning of the second world war in his book, Front Lines and well as his blockbuster series, GONE, with David O’Callaghan.My Teen Diary17.00 - 17.45pm — To close the first day of Yalc, join some of your favourite YA authors as they share snippets from their own teenage diaries! So grab yourself a drink and join hosts, Juno Dawson and Lisa Williamson for this special event. Saturday 30 JulyJoin the Rebellion! Resistance and protest in YA10.00 - 10.45am — Start your Saturday with auhors Alwyn Hamilton, Julie Mayhew and Simon Mayo as they debate the themes of political proteest and resistance in YA writing with host Anna James, literary editor of Elle Magazine. #SquadGoals11.00 - 11.45am — Talking about everything from your BFFs to your toxic frenemies, join Holly Bourne, Sara Barnard, Sarra Manning and Sara Pinborough for an honest discussion about friendship in YA, with host Anna James.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Holly Bourne is ready to hang out and chat everything friendship Photograph: PRTeenage Soundtrack: Music in YA12.00 - 12.45pm — Authors Non Pratt, Sophia Bennett and Chris Russell will be talking about the importance of music to them and their writing process. This discussion will be chaired by author and BBC Radio 2 presenter Simon Mayo. To Boldly Go... YA in Space!13.00 - 13. 45pm — Yalc founder Malorie Blackman will be joined by James Smythe and Eugene Lambert for a conversation about their out—of—this—world settings in YA science-fiction novels, hosted by the Guardian’s Emily Drabble.Secrets & Lies14.00 - 14.45pm — Join these four acclaimed authors, Sarah Crossan, Keren David, Sophie Kinsella and Annabel Pitcher as they come together for a panel discussion on secrets, lies, family and friendship in their stories.The Fear Factor: my horror inspirations 15.00 - 15.45pm — Get yourselves to this spine-chilling chat with top horror authors, Dawn Kurtagich, Derek Landy, Alex Scarrow, Darren Shan and host, David O’Callaghan where they will discuss the books, movies and TV shows that inspired their writing.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Darren Shan will make your hairs stand on end in this discussion about horror stories Photograph: Tarmo TulitYou Know Me Well: David Levithan & Nina LaCour in conversation16.00 - 16.45pm — Who knows you the best? Your best friend? Your boyfriend or girlfriend? Someone you met on a chance encounter? Join author David Levithan and Nina LaCour as they talk about their latest book, You Know Me Well. Yalc Poetry Slam17.00 - 17.45pm — To wrap Saturday up, come along to the first ever Yalc Poetry Slam. This fun event is inspired by David Levithan and Nina LaCour’s book, You Know Me Well and will feature some special guests from the YALC programme who will read their own poetry. If you’ve ever wanted to read your poetry out loud to an audience, this is your opportunity — everybody is welcome to join in. Sunday 31 July Maximum Pop! Books: New Voices in YA10.00 - 10:45am — Meet some of the freshest and most eciting voice in YA today in this session hosted by Maximum Pop! Books. Join authors, Natalie Flynn, Harriet Reuter Hapgood, Claire Hennessy, Pete Kalu, Martin Stewart, Chris Vick and others who will be chatting to host Luke Franks. Ask Yalc!11.00 - 11.45am — Visit the #Yalc Information Point with your questions for this panel. Bring the problem page to life, your questions will be answered by Holly Bourne, Juno Dawson, Rosalind Jana and TV’s Dr Christian who will be offering their advice on everything from reading and writing to friendships.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dr Christian is here to answer all your questions Photograph: Felix Clay for the GuardianFrances Hardinge, Philip Reeve and Tanya Landman 12.00 - 12.45pm — Three acclaimed authors for children and teenagers come together for this special panel. Costa Book Award winner, Frances Hardinge, CILIP Carnegie Medal 2015 Winner Tanya Landman and multi award winner Phillip Reeve will discuss their work with Imogen Russell Williams.#MorallyComplicatedYA13.00 - 13.45pm — What boundaries can a YA author push? When is dark too dark? What are the responsibilities of YA authors? To celebrate the 20th anniversary of YA classic, Junk, Melvin Burgess, Louise O’Neill, Manuela Silva and Emerald Fennell will join Daniel Hahn in a conversation about controversy, censorshop and moral complexity in YA.The Raven King: Maggie Stiefvater in conversation 14.00 - 14.45pm — Join Katherine Webber as she interviews bestselling author Maggie Stiefvater on her magical Raven Cycle, including the final book in the series, The Raven King. Harry Potter Party15.00 - 15.45 — Stick around for this party to close Yalc, celebrate Harry Potter’s birthday (yes, it’s his actual birthday!) and the publication of The Cursed Child with this fun Potter themed party. Be prepared to be whisked off the the wizarding world with a range of magical activities, join in the cosplay competition, and compete to win the House Cup. Find the full Yalc schedule at www.londonfilmandcomiccon.com/yalcFirst set up by Malorie Blackman in 2014, Yalc is the first large scale public literature convention dedicated to teen and YA books in the UK. This year it will be in a dedicated Book Zone at the London Film and Comic Con which runs from 28-31 July 2016 at Olympia, London. Tickets are now available at www.londonfilmandcomiccon.com. 