Few Tehran monuments are as hauntingly beautiful as Qasr, or “palace” prison, a once-notorious complex that reopened in 2012 as a museum and leafy recreational area.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Qasr Photograph: Tehran BureauVisitors are invited to meander through the gardens, stop by the outdoor tea house, and learn about the fates of prisoners whose tales of abuse, though varied in their historical contexts, are not so different from those suffered by contemporary detainees in the Islamic republic.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Qasr Photograph: Tehran BureauThe site formerly housed a Qajar palace built at the end of the 18th century, but was reconstructed as a prison in the early years of Reza Shah Pahlavi’s administration. The commission went to Nikolai Markov, a Georgian architect and former Persian Cossack brigadier who settled in Iran after the Russian Revolution.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Qasr Photograph: Tehran BureauMarkov, who also designed a stadium, several embassies and government office buildings in Tehran, was known for mixing modern, European and Persian architectural elements. He admired traditional Iranian motifs and preferred to use local materials such as brick, stone, tile and plaster.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Qasr Photograph: Tehran BureauMarkov pioneered the use of the adobe brick, which became known as the Markovian brick, in his constructions. Like his other projects, the Qasr prison complex combined urban industrial design with traditional Iranian features. Inaugurated in 1929, it became the first modern detention center in the country.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Qasr Photograph: Tehran BureauReza Shah had many opponents, and in subsequent decades the political prison filled with persecuted Marxists, among others. It was where Ahmad Ahmadi, known to prisoners simply as “Dr Ahmadi” or “Mouse” administered lethal air injections to several inmates, including the poet Mohammad Farrokhi Yazdi. (Ahmadi was later tried for the murders and executed in 1943.)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Qasr Photograph: Tehran BureauBut it is the Qasr political prison’s role in the Islamic revolution that dominates most of the exhibitions. Under Mohammad Reza Shah, it served as the torture and execution chamber of those who opposed his regime. Dark, dank-smelling cells convey the inhumane conditions under which Ayatollah Khomeini, Ali Khamenei, Morteza Motahhari and Ayatollah Taleqani were held.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Qasr Photograph: Tehran BureauThough these islamists have since gained iconic status, they were a minority among the hundreds of secular dissidents who passed through the prison’s gates. “When it was torturing time, it didn’t make a difference whether you were male or female, young or old, religious or not,” Fatemeh Melki, one of approximately one-thousand women liberated from the prison on 11 February 1979 described in a Fars News Agency account of her experiences at Qasr.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Qasr Photograph: Tehran BureauSome of the Shah’s military officials and political leaders including Major General Manuchechr Khosrodad and Prime Minister Amir Abbas Hoveida were imprisoned at Qasr before being executed on the roof of Refah High School in south Tehran after the revolution, on 7 April 1979.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Qasr Photograph: Tehran BureauThe prison fell into disuse in subsequent decades and was donated to the municipal government in 2008. The memorial site remains heavily guarded. The aging former inmates who lead the guided tours share memories of psychological pressure, broken teeth and mangled limbs.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Qasr Photograph: Tehran BureauSome revolution-era prisoners even remember being transported to Qasr from Evin, another infamous Tehran prison which, unlike Qasr, remains fully operational.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Qasr Photograph: Tehran Bureau      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Qasr Photograph: Tehran Bureau      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Qasr Photograph: Tehran Bureau      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Qasr Photograph: Tehran Bureau      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Qasr Photograph: Tehran Bureau      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Qasr Photograph: Tehran BureauReporting by Marketa Hulpachova and Sourena Parham. The Tehran Bureau is an independent media organisation, hosted by the Guardian. Contact us @tehranbureau