It is in stories from our favourite war correspondents that we measure out our disorderly world. But none of us who have tried that thrilling, harrowing part of the inky trade can compete with the simple story filed by Clare Hollingworth as a freelance in Poland in 1939, after ringing the British embassy to tell officials that “the war has begun”.Clare Hollingworth obituary From the first minutes of the German attack to sly insights into the secretive power play of Mao’s China, via run-ins with General Montgomery over the bizarre business of allowing females near the frontline and the scoop of Kim Philby’s defection to the Soviet Union, there was not much that determined the fortunes of the 20th-century world that Hollingworth, who died this week at the age of 105, did not have a hand in reporting.We all have our favourite female Boot of the Beast (the fictional newspaper in Evelyn Waugh’s satire Scoop), and she was mine. I admire Martha Gellhorn’s prose, but can’t be doing with her blithe dismissal of impartiality or the notion that compassion alone is the hallmark of the great reporter.Hollingworth firmly eschewed being consigned to humanitarian stories, while remaining fully aware of the human cost of what she observed. “In a war situation they are soft stories. The frontline is the thing that really matters because the future depends on it at that moment.” That is now a view that news organisations and editors find too limited for their audience’s desire for empathy, but it still has a hard kernel of unavoidable truth.Why does it matter if women join the flak-jacket-and-helmet corps? Not, I would contend, because there is a particularly “feminine” view of war, but because the sharpest journalism requires a mix of sensibility, experience and responses; and, to be stubbornly meritocratic about it, because women are as good at it as the men we work alongside – and it is a waste of intelligence and bravery to underplay that.It was an understanding of military strategy and hardware that gained Hollingworth parity with male colleagues. Covering the frontline, she noted, “was one of the most significant activities a writer can undertake”. I once told her I had been watching Russian troop movements in East Germany. “Excellent!” she beamed, with the gleam of a connoisseur.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Clare Hollingworth’s dispatch for the Daily Telegraph, dated 29 August 1939, that broke the news of the German invasion of Poland. Photograph: The Daily Telegraph/PAReading her extraordinary obituaries, it is clear that she became a role model without really ever positioning herself as such.She was, however, very happy to see young women who wanted to tussle with the stuff of intelligence and the hard compromises of security and freedoms – if scathing about women who “end up writing the soft stories”, as the balance of newspapers shifted from hard news to features and lifestyle columns.Unwisely, I once ventured that I found it a blessed relief to combine writing on the high politics of arms control in the morning with something about Abba or shoes in the afternoon. What, I once asked Hollingworth, was essentially wrong with writing about shoes? “Why would you?” she shot back.Part of this laminated toughness was born of her generational belief that a demanding career in news was exclusive to other interests – a vocation in itself. “Where to next?” she would ask young writers, as if the destinations and their potential stories mattered more than any other consideration in life. Moscow? “Always good to have under your belt, but a bit slow between the big events.” New York. “Hmm.” (Pursed lips signalled “soft cop-out”.) I thought of that look when I opted to cover the bloody carving up of Yugoslavia – another region she already had under her belt, in a previous time of turmoil.Journalism at this level was, she thought, best not combined with children. Romantic entanglements had to fit with the day job, not the other way round. Those who occasionally feel tempted to tell demanding news bosses that they “want their lives back” might be referred to the Hollingworth memorial school of grit – lives were meant to be spent in service of the job and that was a privilege.Many things have changed in the way the truly big stories are gathered and disseminated. But there’s hardly a conflict or even a regional skirmish that Hollingworth brought to her readers in her spare, precise language, from Algeria to China and Russia, that does not help us peel back the layers of our global standoffs.“Remember,” she said of our shared cold war interest: “Never ditch your old contacts book. They will pop up again.” And she was right – as I would discover when Angela Merkel morphed from deputy press spokeswoman in East Germany to German chancellor.I do feel vicariously proud of the women who followed in Hollingworth’s footsteps: indeed, the greatest tribute to her is that there are now many women, ably doing a job where there used to be so very few trusted to brave shot and shell. Yet too few graduate from war reporting to roles in wider commentary on international affairs and the interplay of national politics with it. Editors relish the appeal of competent women covering the battlefield – but they might think more about how to hone and use that expertise when the flak jacket is hung up.We have won Hollingworth’s battle for access to the world’s conflicts, but not yet full representation as authoritative voices as a result. The woman herself would not have had much time for such thumb-sucking. “Where next?” was always the question. It still is.