Apparently there are people who don’t watch television at Christmas. The mind boggles. What do these people do with all that time, traditionally spent with their families? If they’re not arguing over whether Coronation Street or EastEnders is better or explaining to Aunty Esther that yes, Doctor Who is the same programme that they watched in 2005, but no, David Tennant hasn’t aged dramatically, are they actually conversing meaningfully with each other? And if so, what about? Because if you open up the Pandora’s box marked But Why Did You Vote Brexit, Granny?, you’re a bolder – and markedly more patient – person than I am. Because a Pandora’s box is still a Pandora’s box, even if it’s gift-wrapped with paper from M&S’s “Quirky” range that features a cigar-smoking Rudolph strapping Santa into leather reins while snarling “How do you like that, old man?”Actually, the mind Boggles. Because, following my in-depth research, I discovered that these no-TV people do activities and play games, like Ludo, Cluedo, charades and “you be Tubbs, me be Edward”. Clearly, they are missing the point of Christmas. Because television is the point of Christmas. How else to explain that staff at the Radio Times sacrifice a not-insignificant amount of their sanity each year producing such mighty guides to the festive schedules? I worked on three Christmas Radio Times and those experiences are my Vietnam. Yes, even more so than the years slaving at The Guardian being paid only in magic beans and contemptuous looks from the people who went to Oxbridge.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest We Didn’t Burn Him! - The League of Gentlemen - BBC comedyBut let’s not dwell on my workplace traumas. Television – especially Christmas television – is about unalloyed joy. It is being absolutely entranced by Den handing Angie divorce papers in the Vic. It is learning by heart that bit from Evil Under the Sun where Peter Ustinov’s Poirot enigmatically explains how he alighted on the identity of Arlena Marshall’s killer: “A bathing cap, a bath, a bottle, a wrist watch, the diamond, the noonday gun, the breath of the sea and the height of the cliff.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Dirty Den gives Angie divorce papers for Christmas - EastEnders - BBCIt is, years later, watching Christmas episodes of Coronation Street and Emmerdale and being proud that I had helped storyline them. It is standing up for the start of the Queen’s speech, scattering an entire box of Maltesers far and wide across the living room and finding them under the sofa until, if you’re lucky/slatternly, Valentine’s Day.While I’m not one to blow my own trumpet – why have a dog and bark yourself? – I was on the Queen’s speech once, in 1999. Given how manic my mobile phone went then (about four minutes 47 seconds in) with excited and bewildered messages, I’d say that more people than you imagine watch the Queen’s Christmas message.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Queen’s Christmas Message 1999These are Christmas traditions. Not only is television social glue – there was watercooler TV long before there were watercoolers – it is the essence of Christmas because television tells stories. And what’s Christmas but a story? It’s only where it is, temporally speaking, because early Christians wanted to pull focus from pagan celebrations of the winter solstice and such, and so came up with an alternative story. And then slaughtered those who didn’t prefer that story. (I know what’s gone on in the world: I listen to In Our Time. Ask me ANYTHING about the Baltic Crusades or the siege of Tenochtitlan and I will tell you).Of course, the biggest story of all – stories are like lies but longer, remember – is that you’re meant to spend Christmas with your family, that you’re meant to have a good time, that Christmas is fun. While the best stories are fictions that illuminate bigger truths, this story – this lie – is just meant to make you feel bad if you don’t enjoy Christmas, if you don’t swallow the received wisdom, stuffing and all.It is meant to make you feel guilty if you don’t look forward to the festive season with its rampant consumerism and endless tinsel-tinged songs on the radio, if you don’t don an elf-emblazoned jumper that would have Karen Walker – she of the cute angina – wagging a quizzical finger at Grace Adler and wondering “Honey, What’s going on? What’s happening? What’s that?”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Karen Walker: ‘Honey what’s going on? What’s happening?’As someone who grew up in a house where it was declared that Christmas was “an English thing” – apparently on account of Christmas historically not being a public holiday in Scotland – let me tell you that you are not alone in not thinking that Christmas is all that it’s crackered up to be.That said, Christmas can be fun. If you watch television.There will, of course, be a flurry of stories, around four days hence, that overnight ratings are down for the terrestrial broadcast channels for the umpteenth year in a row, as more and more people prefer to watch catch-up, on-demand and shows on Netflix and Amazon. I can’t pretend that I’m not a little sad at the lost prospect of the nation sitting down as one and watching the Christmas Downton Abbey and wondering when the actual story is going start. But things change. And in this, as in other respects, it’s best to summon the serenity to accept it.Besides, it’s not as if everyone is abandoning what we used to call television all together. People still want to watch stories on screens, whether that screen is on the sideboard or in the palm of your hand. As I have only recently discovered the true meaning of “Netflix and chill” – and I now understand why men look so disappointed when I turn up at their door with a triple-box of Jaffa Cakes and rave reviews for Lady Dynamite – my opinion is probably not to be trusted. However, I cannot think of a more Christmassy show than Netflix’s The OA. It’s about existential loneliness. (I am only four episodes in, so NO SPOILERS, thanks). Like Christmas, it is occasionally funny but mostly emotionally gruelling. So much so, in fact, that it makes Jessica Jones look like Mary Poppins.But before you get all excited at the prospect of headlines proclaiming that Netflix Killed Christmas, that will be next year. And that’s only if Donald Trump, Henry Kissinger and this impending fascist phase of neoliberalism doesn’t kill us all first. Seasons greetings, cannon fodder.