Molly Brown, the Gemini spacecraft which carried Grissom and Young three times round the earth last month, not only landed 160 miles short of its intended impact area, it also landed its astronauts in the centre of a strange controversy.The short landing, in the Atlantic, was due to inaccurate information gathered during wind tunnel tests, and will be corrected in the next four-day flight expected in June.The controversy is due to a sandwich, actually containing corned beef, but already immortalised in space legend as “the bologna sandwich,” which was smuggled aboard Molly Brown by John Young, and partially eaten by Gus Grissom while in orbit.The eating of an orbiting sandwich may seem an event to applaud as a sign of genuine humour among otherwise grim space personalities, and to a large sector of public opinion in America - in whose eyes astronauts can do no wrong - the bologna sandwich is the gag of the year. To others, who take their space flights seriously, and who look with some concern at the £30 millions which the Gemini flight is estimated to have cost, the sandwich was an unscientific intruder which went beyond minor clowning and disrupted research into space foods.The nubThe nub of the controversy is that, as part of the medical research being carried out on the flight, Young was supposed to eat some special Gemini-type food while Grissom was to have eaten nothing - serving as a control to Young’s activity. As things turned out Grissom was sick after landing, and the sandwich came unpleasantly to light. No one has suggested that the sandwich actually caused this, but what it did was to throw out of court some marginal medical data and bring down a shower of brickbats both from scientists involved and from sections of the dollar guarding press.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Virgil Grissom in 1961. Photograph: NASA/APThe distress, as the Washington “Star” had it, arises from the fact that each space flight is expensive and, at best, only scantily productive of new information. To disrupt even a marginal piece of data is, in the view of the scientists, a serious matter.George Miller, chairman of the House Science and Astronautics Committee, was more resounding. He said: “We do not do these things as stunts. This is not sitting on top of a flagpole or seeing how many people can crowd into a telephone booth. This is for the betterment of America and of mankind.”Right to grinIt is said that both Grissom and Young actually grinned when the subject came up at a press conference after their flight, and no one has looked carefully at what the situation might have been had the sandwich gone undetected. Indeed no one has seemingly considered the possibility that other sandwiches (or hip flasks of vodka) may have gone undetected on other occasions.Senator Miller clearly dare not consider the possibility, for it would jeopardise his whole programme for the betterment of mankind.Grissom and Young are apparently much too carefree to benefit from that kind of betterment anyway and, if it would be improper to condone their deviationist tendencies, it seems only right to give them a minor award for bringing space flight down to earth. Not, perhaps, a plate of sandwiches, but the right to grin and to prick a few balloons.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   First crewed Gemini mission, March 1965. Photograph: NASA