Baftas 2015: full list of nominations ‘Is this water? Are we allowed to use these glasses?” It’s a boiling hot day in central London, and Rachel Tunnard is trying to negotiate the super-luxe hotel suite where we’ve met to discuss her film Adult Life Skills, in which the lead character lives in a shed in her mum’s garden and microwaves her bra to dry it out quickly. It’s a bit of a weird contrast.Adult Life Skills started out as a Bafta-nominated short and is Tunnard’s full-length writing and directorial debut. It focuses on 29-year-old Anna, played by Jodie Whittaker, who has a dead-end job at an outdoor pursuits centre, makes short films starring her thumbs and has imaginary chats with her dead twin brother Billy. As her 30th birthday – and therefore her family’s imposed deadline to vacate the shed – approaches, she’s forced to ask herself the question: what now?   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The film premiered at the Tribeca film festival to positive reviews (aside from Variety, which called it “twee”) and won the Nora Ephron prize for female writers and directors. For anyone in their late 20s, it’s likely to strike a chord. Anna’s shed-based living situation means she can hear her mum reminding her “when I was your age…” every single day, something that will sound familiar to the estimated 3.3 million UK 20- to 34-year-olds living with their parents. She’s stuck, seemingly unable to move past her brother’s death and achieve those traditional markers of adult life we’re told about: getting a “real” job, starting a family, and dressing like a grownup. Her best friend goes travelling to “find herself”, but Anna’s still drinking in the same pub she was going to as a teen.Given that Tunnard’s own IMDB page is littered with short films starring her thumbs (“I made them at home using my iPhone Sellotaped to the table top”), might this be considered her own life story? “I don’t have a dead twin if that’s what you mean,” she laughs.She did, however, live in a shed. “When I first moved to London, I didn’t have any money, I was working as an assistant to an editor and I was getting paid in pints and chocolate biscuits. So I lived in my cousin’s shed in Finsbury Park.”She’s also experienced living with a parent,who, fortunately, let her stay inside the family home. “When I was 29, my nine-year relationship ended. I moved back home to Sheffield, I moved in with my mum and I regressed back to being a teenager.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rachel Tunnard at the US premiere of Adult Life Skills. Photograph: Ben Gabbe/GettyTo make the film, Tunnard recruited friends Whittaker (the Broadchuch star fully committed to the character of Anna by growing some very impressive armpit hair) and Rachel Deering, who plays Anna’s best friend Fiona. The three had talked about working on a project together before, during a trip to Paris some eight years ago, but, like 99% of those wistful holiday plans, nothing happened.Demetri Martin's directorial debut takes prize at Tribeca film festival That was until 2014, when Emotional Fusebox – the short that would later become Adult Life Skills – got picked up for the London film festival. “Then off the back of that we got [nominated for the] Baftas,” explains Tunnard. “It went crazy, really; four months later we were shooting Adult Life Skills. It was very fast from that point.”Yet Tunnard is keen to point out this wasn’t an overnight success story. “I haven’t ‘broken through’, I’ve been working my arse off for the last 14 years. But Adult Life Skills has arrived at a time when there is appetite for female stories written by women.” As evidence , she cites Marielle Heller’s 2015 Diary Of A Teenage Girl, which she says she “loved”.At the same time, Tunnard rejects that old stock term that tends to come up whenever films made by women are discussed.“It annoys me that there’s this huge emphasis on strong women characters, because … what is a strong female character?” she asks. “I wanted to make a woman who was like me, and my friends. Sometimes you’re confident and bolshy, sometimes you’re really embarrassed or shy. Sometimes you just can’t cope and you make shit decisions.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It might seem like a film about a twentysomething living in a shed has come along at an opportune moment. Indeed, with the housing market being what it is, a shed you don’t have to pay for actually sounds like a better set-up than most inner-city rentals. But what starts out as a hopeless film about a quarter-life existential crisis is actually a Trojan horse for a comedy about grief and identity, one that makes great use of the British tendency towards black humour.“Me, Jodie and Rachel, when we’re together, that’s when we’re at our funniest; trying to make each other laugh even when bad things happen,” Tunnard says. And even though Adult Life Skills is, essentially, a film about overcoming a bereavement, she adds: “I think it has a kind of upbeat sense of hope. And that’s why it connects with people.”Rachel Tunnard had better get used to those posh hotel suites.Adult Life Skills is in cinemas from Friday