      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Boy Behind the Curtain by Tim Winton (Penguin)Tim Winton is one of Australia’s most popular contemporary novelists, but his most recent offerings have been in the realm of nonfiction. The Boy Behind the Curtain continues this trend, offering a collection of essays – including some previously unpublished – that examine life through Winton’s eyes. Not only are there the meditations on the natural world that infuse so much of his other work, but he also lends his pen to Christianity, guns, asylum seekers, and road accidents. That Winton’s nonfiction is as lyrical as his fiction goes without saying.Available now.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Curious Story of Malcolm Turnbull, the Incredible Shrinking Man in the Top Hat by Andrew P Street (Allen & Unwin)Andrew P Street is a commentator and critic, whose weekday column View from the Street has made him a permanent fixture of the Australian critical landscape. The Curious Story of Malcolm Turnbull, the Incredible Shrinking Man in the Top Hat is Street’s second book of political commentary, following up his similarly loquacious The Short and Excruciatingly Embarrassing Reign of Captain Abbott.For this new political era and not-so-new cutthroat political landscape, Street offers his signature brand of political commentary with a healthy dose of sarcasm and snark on the not-so-smooth rise and skin-of-his-teeth electoral success of our illustrious prime minister (for now) Malcolm Turnbull. Available now.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Fight Like a Girl by Clementine Ford (Allen & Unwin)Prolific commentator and popular Australian feminist Clementine Ford’s much-anticipated first book is less a memoir than a manifesto. Ford shot to fame through her feminist columns on Fairfax’s Daily Life website, and her first full-length book project is infused with the same distinctive attitude and agenda. Guardian Australia’s Brigid Delaney wrote: “Part memoir, part polemic, Fight Like a Girl details Ford’s growth from a girl with an eating disorder who wanted to be liked by the boys (‘Being complicit in your own silence,’ she writes), to a woman finding her voice, feminism and a sisterhood of ‘girl gangs’.”Available now.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Explosion Chronicles by Yan Lianke, translated by Carlos Rojas (Text)A master satirist and with a keen eye for cultural absurdities, Yan Lianke’s 30-year writing career has resulted in a swag of awards, including some of China’s most prestigious literary prizes. Most recently, his novel The Four Books was shortlisted for the 2016 Man Booker Prize, cementing his reputation as one of China’s pre-eminent fiction writers.The Explosion Chronicles is a satirical examination of power, community and dynasty, as three families set about creating their fortunes in the millenia-old town of Explosion. Originally founded by refugees from a volcanic eruption, in the post-Mao era, the community transforms rapidly from village to unwieldy bustling metropolis, full of corruption and vice. Available 17 October.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Goodwood by Holly Throsby (Allen & Unwin)What happens when the coolest kid in town disappears without a trace? What happens when two of them do? Singer-songwriter Holly Throsby’s debut novel is an exploration of small-town secrets and the reverberations of the unknown. In a community where it’s impossible to keep anything to yourself, how could two of its most well-known and liked members simply vanish without a trace? And how do speculation, rumour and mystery affect those left behind?Available now.Double Dissolution: Heartbreak and Chaos on the Campaign Trail by Lee Zachariah (Echo)At the end of April, Lee Zachariah left behind his marriage of three years and dove onto the campaign bus for the 2016 Australian federal election. Out of the ensuing political and emotional turmoil, a book emerged.Part political analysis, part self-exploration, Double Dissolution takes the sense of humour and gonzo-style journalism that characterised Zachariah’s election coverage for Vice and fuses it to the personal. The result is a critical and heartfelt attempt to come to terms with the parallel failures of a romantic relationship and the Australian government.Available now.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Into the Darkness: the Mysterious Death of Phoebe Handsjuk by Robin Bowles (Scribe)In December 2010, 24-year-old Phoebe Handsjuk was found dead, face-down in a garbage chute, twelve floors below her apartment in a St Kilda Road block. Her death fascinated the public and the media, even more so when the coroner ruled it an accident. Not everyone believed it was an accident, however, including Phoebe’s grandfather, a former detective. Into the Darkness is true-crime writer Robin Bowles account of Phoebe’s death and one of the strangest incidents in recent memory. Available now.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Bridget Jones’s Baby: The Diaries by Helen Fielding (Jonathan Cape)Bridget Jones is back, she’s single again, and now she’s pregnant. This is the fourth literary instalment of Bridget, but comes chronologically after the events of the second book, with Bridget stuck between an old flame and new spark, between her career and her love life, between what she wants and what life delivers her.Helen Fielding recently told Guardian books editor Sian Cain: “At heart, Bridget Jones is about the gap between how we all feel we’re expected to be and how we actually are; and – as Bridget discovers with her somewhat bumpy pregnancy – how we expect life to turn out and how it actually does.”The release of this next Bridget fix is timed to tie in with the release of the film of the same name, currently showing in Australia. Available 11 October.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Hag-Seed: The Tempest Retold by Margaret Atwood (Hogarth)The Hogarth Shakespeare series, in which renowned authors rework Shakespeare’s classic plays for a contemporary readership, has given us Anne Tyler’s Vinegar Girl (The Taming of the Shrew), Howard Jacobsen’s Shylock Is My Name (The Merchant of Venice) and Jeanette Winterson’s The Gap of Time (A Winter’s Tale). Now, we have Margaret Atwood’s Hag-Seed, her version of the Tempest, reimagined as a wronged theatre director’s quest for vengeance. According to Alexandra Harris for the Guardian, Atwood approaches this “with gusto and extravagance”. Margaret Atwood recently wrote for the Guardian: “Hag-Seed is set in the year 2013, in Canada, in a region somewhat close to a town where there is an actual Shakespeare festival. It opens with a video of The Tempest that’s been made in a prison and is being watched by an unseen audience inside the prison. Act 1, Scene 1 – the actual tempest, with sailors running around and yelling – is in progress on screen, when suddenly there are sounds of a prison riot. Lockdown!” Available 17 October  Photograph: Hamish HamiltonAutumn by Ali Smith (Hamish Hamilton)Scottish writer Ali Smith (author of the Man Booker-shortlisted How to Be Both) is known for her unconventional and imaginative prose. Her newest novel is the first of a quartet, Seasonal: four independent but interlinked novels drawing on ideas about the nature of time and the shifting, cyclical elements in culture and nature that mark the moments of our lives.Daniel is 100 years old; Elizabeth is a child of the 80s. In Smith’s distinctive style, these characters draw past and present together as they take the reader deep into the heart of a post-summer UK, into the belly of the cultural products that shape our experiences and understanding of the world.Available 17 October.