Child marriage, malnutrition, gender inequality and female genital mutilation could all be addressed if illiteracy, which affects one in 10 people, was put at the centre of efforts to tackle social, economic and environmental problems, according to campaigners.The actor Lily Cole will, on Tuesday, call on British MPs to urgently tackle the global illiteracy crisis. The UN estimates that 781 million people aged 15 or over are illiterate. Nearly two-thirds of illiterate adults are women.According to the UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (Unesco), the number of illiterate adults in sub-Saharan Africa has increased by 37% (pdf) since 1990.Last year, the World Literacy Foundation put the cost of illiteracy to the global economy at $1.2tn (£760bn).“We need to put illiteracy more central to our thinking,” said Cole, who will launch Project Literacy’s Alphabet of Illiteracy campaign at the House of Commons. The Alphabet of Illiteracy uses each letter of the alphabet to highlight an issue that could be tackled if literacy was improved.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lily Cole says expanding literacy will empower people to have more control over their lives. Photograph: Rex/Shutterstock“I’m not pretending I have the solution to the problems. I’m trying to raise awareness and make people think about illiteracy in a more comprehensive way,” said Cole, speaking ahead of the event.“I read the Alphabet of Illiteracy and it captured it well for me. I’m always interested in trying to look at the root causes of problems … it never really crossed my mind that there were so many illiterate people and I never thought through the consequences of being illiterate. It’s not as simple as not being able to read a book. It’s a much more serious and debilitating situation to be in.“[The alphabet] states the relationship between illiteracy and all the global issues we are well aware of, and fighting,” she said, adding that addressing illiteracy will “arguably go a long way to easing other problems”.The alphabet lists Aids under A, pointing to statistics (pdf) that suggest a full course of primary education can reduce the number of HIV infections. B stands for bloodshed, as incidences of violence against women are lower (pdf) the greater the level of education. C stands for child brides, because keeping girls in schools lessens the likelihood of them being forced to marry young (pdf).Project Literacy is a global campaign supported by 40 charities and educational organisations with the target that by 2030 no newborn child will face a life of poor literacy. Campaigners have launched a petition urging action on illiteracy, which will be presented to the UN in New York on International Literacy Day on 8 September.Last September, world leaders promised to reduce illiteracy substantially and end all gender disparities in education by 2030 under the sustainable development goals.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A girl draws animals in her schoolbook at Pibor primary school, South Sudan, whereonly about 27% of the adult population can read and write. Photograph: Adriane Ohanesian/Reuters“Literacy is a key component in achieving the UN’s sustainable development goals. Without literacy, each of the 17 goals will be limited by the inability of citizens to be sufficiently informed on key issues, and less empowered to take action,” said Dan Wagner, Unesco’s chair in learning and literacy at the University of Pennsylvania. “There is a strong argument that tackling illiteracy and low literacy, as a ‘foundational’ social problem, would pay greater dividends than tackling each issue separately.”As well as backing the call to champion the fight against illiteracy, Cole said she hoped leaders would start to view global issues more holistically.“When we have these different global issues we take a Band-Aid approach – how can we fix this problem? – rather than investing time and energy looking at why these problems exist … so we can start to solve the root problems of these issues. If we don’t solve the root problems, we’re just dealing with different symptoms again and again.“If you empower people to have more control of their lives they will deal with these problems. It’s about empowerment, fundamentally.”