Tens of thousands of people are backing a campaign to halt the privatisation of all future staff contracts at the Victoria and Albert Museum.Under plans announced at the beginning of this year, all new museum staff, from gallery assistants to curators, will be employed through V&A Enterprises Ltd – the commercial arm of the museum, which has private sector status. Clara Paillard, president of the culture sector of the Public and Commercial Services Union, said it was an “alarming indicator that our cultural public services are being dismantled bit by bit”.Paillard created an online petition calling on the museum to suspend the plans, which gained over 40,000 signatures in just four days.The new system, which campaigners have branded “privatisation by the back door”, will have a significant impact on the redundancy protection, maternity leave and sick leave offered to all new staff. These new private contracts will also ensure staff no longer qualify for the civil service pension offered to public sector workers. Paillard said: “These contracts are significantly worse in everything from pension provision, which will now be tied to investors and shareholders, to redundancy compensation, meaning it will be much easier to get rid of staff.” She added the V&A had spoken to staff about the proposals before Christmas and said they would not negotiate with the unions because they were not recognised by V&A Enterprises Ltd.The plans were justified as essential cost-cutting measures to the budget and pensions. However, Paillard pointed out that the plans were made before the autumn statement, when George Osborne announced there would be no further budget cuts for institutions such as the V&A. In light of this, she said it was “legitimate” that the proposals were reviewed. She added: “We tried to have a proper dialogue and they refused. There is so much research showing the economic benefits of public investment in the culture sector. It is a public service and these are national collections and the danger of having more and more private sector operators in museums and galleries is quite worrying. “Our hope is that the V&A will abandon this mad enterprise.” Existing employees will not be affected by the plans. However, Paillard said the museum had a rapid turnover of staff and it would “not be long” until most working at the museum were on privatised contracts, which would have “long-term implications”. The proposals by the V&A come after a recent dispute at the National Gallery over the privatisation of visitor and security services through the firm Securitas. Members of the PCS union went on strike for 100 days over the plans, causing most of the gallery to shut down in August 2015, though the issue was resolved in October after the union agreed to a deal. The Imperial War Museum also privatised its visitor services in December 2013, awarding the £10m contract to the Shield Group.A spokeswoman for the V&A said: “The new terms provide the museum with the flexibility to offer competitive remuneration packages for new starters that better reflect the job markets that we are recruiting in.“The V&A has informed and consulted its recognised trade unions on these developments.”