My kitchen is … big, light and brand new. We recently built our house, so it was the chance to design it from scratch. I never thought I’d go for the modern, clean, German aesthetic, but I did: it’s all horizontal, clean lines with no handles – I’m not a visually fussy person. The worktops are all stainless steel with charcoal-coloured cabinets and a light greenish-grey limestone floor. Everything is put away, except for the mixer and a few things on an island in the middle. I’ve one big fat shelf – about 75mm thick – along one wall with lots of jars of things fermenting.My favourite kitchen tool is …  my frying pan. Frying pans have long pissed me off in every way – they stick unless they’re non-stick, but then you have the chemical coating; they’re impossible to clean … But recently I got one from Netherton Foundry, and it’s solved everything. It works a treat; it’s the perfect big size. It makes me happy.My storecupboard staples are … olive oil, lemons, salt, salami, potatoes and black pepper – with these, I know I can make a meal with whatever else there is around. I’m one of those lanky gits who eats – and has to eat – all the time. I’m always hungry.When I’m starving I … have fried eggs on toast. White cooked, middle runny; it takes 2 minutes. Salt – far more than I should – and szechuan pepper.My culinary inspiration is … Jane Grigson and the way she joined the dots between the nature of the ingredient and the flavour, the cooking, the stories. And more recently Diana Henry – very simple, non-tricksy and amazing. And then the people I’ve worked with through the courses we’re doing at Otter Farm. They all have that deep knowledge in their chosen field, be it gluten-free cooking, fermentation, sourdough or cocktails …My best-kept kitchen secret is … to be bold and inquisitive. Don’t be afraid to make mistakes in cooking. It’s very easy to follow a recipe, like you might follow a song – to only do as you’re told. But improvising is what leads to discovery.When I’m invited to dinner I always take … my latest infusion. I do a lot of them, in whatever season. Sloe gin, quince gin … This evening, it would be a bottle of limoncello.Everything tastes better with … szechuan pepper. It’s pink and citrussy and a different experience entirely from any other kind of pepper. It works with sweet and savoury dishes, and it always looks wonderful.When I go shopping I … write a big list but always get more than I planned. I love shopping – it’s one of the main reasons why, even if I could be, I wouldn’t want to be self-sufficient.For dinner tonight … I’m having hot smoked pork tenderloin – from Partridge Hill Farm, a nearby smallholding I recently discovered – with a gratin of Jerusalem artichoke, leek and kale. I got half a pig from them about a week ago – they have entirely organically raised trad breeds, which have plenty of room to roam and are fed a mixed diet of natural and organic feed. It’s the most extraordinary pork I’ve ever had.Mark Diacono is a writer, photographer, grower and cook, and the owner of Otter Farm; otterfarm.co.uk. @mark_diaconoMark will be taking over Cook’s Instagram account this weekend.Follow us @guardian_cook for updates.