The Get Down returns to Netflix today, which is either excellent news or the worst thing you’ve heard all year. This is because The Get Down is one of the most polarising shows in recent memory. If you’re a fan, you’ve fallen in love with its disco balls and decks and flexible attitude to established television conventions. But if you’re not, you hate it with the strength of a thousand suns. You hate how nebulous and unfocused it is. You hate the stink of Baz Luhrmann’s indulgences, and the waste its extraordinary $120m budget represents. Obviously if you’re the latter, you’re in the right. The Get Down is an unwatchable mess, and I’ll fight the 50% of Netflix subscribers who disagree. But that doesn’t matter. There is already too much television, so shows now have room to take huge swings and risk alienating most people. Here are some other polarising shows, along with a quick explainer about whether they’re actually worth your time or not.Legion      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   I’d happily follow creator Noah Hawley off a cliff if he asked … Legion. Photograph: FXLegion represents the very outer orbit of what a superhero story can be. When you start watching it, you have no idea what it actually is. Is it about the world’s most powerful mutant, or a deluded patient in a psychiatric hospital? Are the things that are happening actually happening, or is it all being imagined by an unreliable protagonist? Are any of the characters who they say they are? Are they even real? Why do people keep breaking off to perform Bollywood dances to Serge Gainsbourg songs? What the hell is an astral plane? Anecdotally, Legion’s drop-off rate was astonishing, with most people I know bowing out in confusion after a couple of episodes.A trippy, decadent fever dream: why Legion is the best superhero show on TV Is it any good? Actually, yes. As the series wears on, the storytelling becomes more and more conventional, and everything is fully explained by the finale. It’s worth persevering with, especially because I’d happily follow creator Noah Hawley off a cliff if he asked.The LeftoversThe Leftovers is ending this year, largely because it bummed out so many people that they stopped watching. To some extent you can understand why. A study of mass bereavement, The Leftovers laid it on with a trowel at first. Everyone spent their time either scowling or crying. The music sounded like the sort of thing they play in a Dignitas clinic. The pilot, which contained a sequence where a teenage girl silently wept while a boy masturbated beside her, couldn’t have been more heavy-handed if it had Mike Teavee-d a pile of sleeping pills into the home of every viewer. But those who stuck with it know that the second series hit extraordinary highs.Is it any good? It was my favourite TV show of 2015, and I have immaculate taste.Taboo      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rabid fanbase … Tom Hardy’s Taboo. Photograph: Robert Viglasky/Scott Free ProdsTom Hardy has such a rabid fanbase that he can even turn CBeebies Bedtime Stories into event TV. So the thought of him starring in a show of his own creation, revelling in his favourite themes with his favourite glower permanently clamped across his face, sounded too good to be true. And, for me at least, it was. I found Taboo to be tonally flat and one-dimensionally grubby, and lacking the awareness to see how silly it was. But I made the mistake of saying this in public once, and the reaction was so furious that it made me want to dig a hole in my garden. People loved Taboo. People loved it with all their hearts.Is it any good? No. Don’t hurt me, internet.Lost      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Did you see it through? … Lost. Photograph: Mario Perez/ABC via GettyThere are two types of people in the world. There are those who saw Lost through to the finale, lapping up the time travel and alternate universes and donkey wheels and half-baked metaphors about bottles and corks, and there are bad idiots with no taste who flaked out halfway through the second series. Admittedly, the bad idiots might be slightly justified, in the sense that the showrunners maintained that they knew where Lost was going even though they didn’t, but that’s not the point. The point is that they asked for your trust, and you abandoned them. Jacob would be so disappointed.Is it any good? It is the second best television programme ever made, even though I’m not in a rush to rewatch any of it ever again.