Our bay tree is one of the best buys we’ve ever made. Bays grow happily in a pot or in the ground and, once they take to their new home, have to be regularly pruned to keep them under control, which has obvious benefits for the cook of the house. Even so, bay has a very underrated scent. Sure, it’s the solid stalwart of the stock pot, but beyond that it tends to get overlooked. Not in our house, though, because bay is delicious in all kinds of dishes, from poached pears (or plums or damsons, as in today’s second recipe) to simple creams and savoury rubs. I also regularly blitz a handful of bay leaves with other herbs and salt, and smear the result over a joint of meat or fish, or tuck it into the cavities.Our plum tree is another source of regular pleasure and every year around this time, we are awash with its fruit. Being at the front of the house, our tree also provides passers-by with free treats.Balsamic-baked new potatoes with taleggio cheese and bayThis is a brilliantly satisfying dinner in its own right, but if you need something more, serve alongside roast pork or a Barnsley chop. Serves four as a main course, more as a side.1 large white onion, peeled and halved 1kg new potatoesFlaky sea salt and freshly ground black pepper4 tbsp balsamic vinegar5 bay leaves (fresh, ideally)150g taleggio, sliced100g rocket leavesA few sprigs fresh thyme, picked20g finely shaved parmesan1 lemon, juiced1 tbsp extra-virgin olive oilHeat the oven to 200C/390F/gas mark 6. Cut the onion into thick pieces across the halves; leave the potatoes whole or, if they are on the large side, cut them into bite-sized pieces. Toss the potatoes and onion in half a teaspoon of flaky sea salt (less if using fine sea salt), lay them in an oven tray and roast for 30-40 minutes, until golden and tender.Tip the cooked veg into an oven dish and pour the vinegar over the top. Toss to coat, then tuck in the bay leaves and cover with the slices of taleggio. Season with a touch more salt and lots of pepper, and bake for 10 minutes, until the cheese is bubbling and golden.Meanwhile, put the rocket, thyme leaves and parmesan in a bowl, dress with the lemon juice and oil, season generously and toss gently. Serve with the hot, cheesy potatoes.Damson (or plum) trifleWe are rich with damsons and plums in this country, so use any variety you like. Serves four.20 ripe damsons or 10 plums20g dark brown sugar 1 cinnamon stick 3 cloves 2 star anise 1 lemon, zest peeled off in long strips (use a vegetable peeler)100ml damson (or plum) vodka (or brandy if you have neither)For the sponge 100g caster sugar 4 large free-range eggs 100g self-raising flourFor the custard 300ml double cream1 tbsp damson vodka (optional)1 vanilla pod3 egg yolks50g caster sugar To finish600ml double cream, whipped to soft peaks25g flaked almonds 25g pecans, slightly crushed5 biscotti, crushedHeat the oven to 200C/390F/gas mark 6. Grease and line a 33cm x 23cm roll tin with baking paper.First, make the sponge. In a large bowl, whisk the sugar and eggs until light and frothy, then sift in the flour and gently fold in to combine. Pour into the prepared tin and bake for 10-12 minutes, until lightly golden, bouncy and a skewer comes out clean. Leave to cool.Halve and stone the damsons or plums, then put in a wide pan with the sugar, spices, lemon rind and a splash of water. Cook on a high heat for a minute or two, then turn down the heat, cover and simmer for 10-15 minutes, until the fruit is very tender.While the fruit is cooking, make the custard. Heat the cream, vodka (if using) and vanilla pod until just below boiling point. Remove the vanilla pod, split it lengthways and scrape the seeds into the cream mix; leave to cool and infuse. Meanwhile, whisk the eggs and sugar until thick and pale, then whisk in the cream mix. Tip back into the pan, and stir for 10-15 minutes over a medium heat, until the custard thickens and coats the back of a spoon.Now build the trifle. Put the sponge in the base of a transparent, two-litre bowl, pressing it firmly into the base. Spoon over the vodka and some of the cooking juices from the fruit, then spoon the damsons over the sponge, making sure they go right to the edges of the bowl (make sure there are no errant stones). Top the fruit with the custard.Whip the cream to soft peaks and spoon in large dollops on top of the custard. Sprinkle with the crushed pecans, toasted almonds, biscotti and a little extra plum syrup (if you want to gild the lily, grate over 20g of very dark chocolate, too).And for the rest of the week…The taleggio bake can very easily be turned into a richer, meatier dish. Dice the cheese into 1cm cubes, then mix with a chopped onion, a crushed clove of garlic and some lardons, then sprinkle over the potatoes before baking. If, like me, you’re looking to use up excess plums or damsons, turn them into a ripple ice-cream. Just double the quantities in the trifle custard, then stir-freeze or churn in an ice-cream machine; purée the fruit and, as the custard thickens, pour it in bit by bit and stir so it ripples through the ice. Bay leaves make a delicious ice-cream, too: infuse them in the cream with the vanilla pod, or poach with the plums (add a vanilla pod or essence for a more classic flavouring). If you have a glut of plums, turn them into jam; vanilla and star anise is just one excellent pairing.