1 Endless Poetry (15)(Alejandro Jodorowsky, 2016, Fra/Chi/Jap/UK) 128 mins   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A five-part autobiographical movie series might sound like the last word in self indulgence, but this (part two) leaves you wanting more. Charting Jodorowsky’s artistic awakening in 1940s Chile, it’s less psychedelic and more accessible than his celebrated 1970s works, but still one step removed from reality. It’s a cornucopia of wonders, filled with wise truths, bohemian romance and theatrical flourishes, not to mention punk poets, clowns, giants, puppets and menstruating dwarves. You never know what’s coming next.2 Zero Days (12A)(Alex Gibney, 2016, US) 116 mins   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A forensic, discomfiting investigation into the Stuxnet virus: an unfathomably complex piece of programming whose purpose, targets and origins were initially a complete mystery. There’s little solace when the answers do come, either in terms of who the “bad guys” really are, or in Stuxnet’s implications: that such viruses could easily cripple industrial civilisation. Gibney suggests this is nothing short of a new form of warfare, which we’re only just getting to grips with.3 Silence (15)(Martin Scorsese, 2016, Mex/Tai/US) 161 mins   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Scorsese’s epic but austere study of faith in crisis will reward patient believers but challenge distracted heathens. The time is 17th-century Japan, where Christians are being tortured and persecuted – a true test for missionaries Andrew Garfield and Adam Driver, especially considering their predecessor (Liam Neeson) has gone missing. Though welcomed by the underground Christians, they’re soon tracked down by the local inquisitor. Will God hear their prayers?4 Rogue One: A Star Wars Story (12A)(Gareth Edwards, 2016, US) 134 mins   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest An outer planet in the Star Wars galaxy in terms of story significance (it effectively ends where A New Hope begins), this is nonetheless rendered with the requisite attention to design, spectacle and pacing fans expect. Felicity Jones is the rebel with a cause, marshalling her motley (overwhelmingly male) crew into an apparent suicide mission to the dark side.5 A Monster Calls (12A)(Juan Antonio Bayona, 2016, Spa/US/UK/Can) 108 mins   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A boy-and-his-monster tale that treads familiar emotional ground, but takes care with its storytelling and especially its marvellous special effects. This kid (Lewis MacDougall) is faced with a dying mum (Felicity Jones), a distant dad, and a hard-knock school life – until a giant tree creature from the pages of his sketch book comes to life …