More than three million people visit the Science Museum every year, and the site is UK’s most popular destination dedicated to science, technology, engineering. Yet this figure seems almost modest when considering the six million visitors who attended the Great Exhibition in Hyde Park between May and October of 1851 – equivalent to a third of the population of Britain at the time.Visitors to the Crystal Palace, a marvel in its own right, were treated to demonstrations of cutting-edge technology of the day, including electric telegraphs, microscopes, a prototype facsimile machine, a revolving lighthouse light and an early submarine. This was the first, and perhaps the only time that such a large scale effort was made to promote technology to the masses. The event, masterminded by Prince Albert, made a profit of £186,000 (equivalent to tens of millions today).The Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851, which was appointed in 1850 to organise the Exhibition, was continued in perpetuity to spend these profits. Prince Albert decreed they were to be used to “increase the means of industrial education and extend the influence of science and art upon productive industry”. The Commissioners’ first act was to purchase 96 acres of land in South Kensington, and over the next fifty years they established the institutions that make up “Albertopolis”: the great museums of the V&A, Natural History and Science; the Royal Colleges of Art and Music; Imperial College and the Hall of Art and Science (the Royal Albert Hall). Unbeknownst to many, although the museum sites were sold to the government in the late 19th century, the Commission remains the landlord of much of this hotspot of British culture and innovation today, and continues to hold sway over it as a whole.7 May 1851: The Great Exhibition Whilst the Great Exhibition was a tremendous success, exposure to international competition proved something of a rude awakening for British industry. British exhibits were upstaged by the French in terms of design flair, the Germans in terms of precision engineering, and the Americans in terms of large-scale manufacturing and Prince Albert was determined to do something about it. As well as creating a unique cultural estate, he envisaged the establishment of a series of scholarships and this started to be realised in 1891, thirty years after his death, with the foundation of the Commission’s science scholarships, aimed at encouraging bright, early-career scientists to develop their research.These scholarships, now titled Research Fellowships, are still going strong over a century later, and have a long and illustrious list of recipients. Among the first beneficiaries of the programme was a young physicist from New Zealand who came to Cambridge in 1895, named Ernest Rutherford, whose pioneering research on the structure of matter would eventually win him the Nobel prize for Chemistry. A total of thirteen Nobel laureates have received early career funding from the Commission’s scholarships, including Paul Dirac and Peter Higgs. Each year some £2 million is distributed to new Fellows across a range of awards.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Between May and October 1851, the equivalent of a third of Britain’s population of the time visited the Crystal Palace in Hyde Park. Photograph: Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851The Great Exhibition aimed to show that technology was the key to a better future, a belief that proved a motivating force behind the Industrial Revolution. Its legacy has supported hundreds of innovators over the last 150 years through the Commission’s fellowships, a fact that has undoubtedly contributed to the UK becoming a world-leader in research and development (R&D) . Yet we still have a way to go in improving our exploitation of the innovation that happens on our soil.A report recently published by Dame Ann Dowling, the President of the Royal Academy of Engineering, for the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, suggests we must enable more businesses to utilise the knowledge and skills that lie within our universities, and to recognise the efforts of people involved in collaborations.Since the 1980s, an important priority for the Commission has been to help businesses understand and harness the research output of universities. A common complaint from industry at that time was that although they could see the importance of investing in technology research, most did not have the resources to build entire labs or pay full-time R&D staff.Conscious that such limitations had the potential to stifle British innovation, the Commission set up the Industrial Fellowship. This scheme allows businesses to team up with a university to conduct doctoral-level research over three years with the aim of producing a patented product or industrial process. With a financial value of up to £80,000, the Commission pays half the Fellow’s salary as well as their university fees for the duration of the programme. There is also a generous annual travel allowance enabling fellows to showcase their developments on the global stage, form a global network of industry peers, and bring the best of the world’s expertise back to Britain.The Industrial Fellowships have already had a tremendous impact, giving businesses the opportunity to support their brightest employees, explore the benefits of technological innovation and access the world-leading research facilities available at universities, whilst encouraging academic research with real-world application. The importance of such a programme has been made clear by the range of companies where Fellowships have been awarded, ranging from such industrial giants as Rolls Royce, BP and BAE, to start-ups and small and medium-sized enterprises, some with just two employees, on the brink of success.Just as the Great Exhibition showcased innovations from across British industry, the Commission supports young researchers making developments in a broad range of fields, from new sources of sustainable energy to technologies to make space more accessible. One of last year’s most remarkable Industrial Fellows is Shuning Bian, a graduate of the University of Sydney currently completing his DPhil at Oxford. In his role at Lein Applied Diagnostics, he is working to speed up the development of ‘microbubble’ drug delivery to improve the efficacy of cancer treatments.The technologies on display at the Great Exhibition, like steam locomotives and printing presses, have had a profound impact on our lives today. The innovations its profits continue to support will undoubtedly have impact years and even centuries from now. We have a responsibility to future generations to continue supporting and celebrating cutting-edge research, and encouraging the collaborations with industry that can make them a reality. Only then can we ensure that the ideas and developments created in our labs make it into the market place, and continue the journey to a better future as laid out in a vision 160 years ago.For more information on the 1851 Royal Commission and its awards visit its website: www.royalcommission1851.org.uk