Caprese salad is a dish so gloriously simple that you may wonder how on earth I’m going to squeeze an article out of it. Surely, I hear you scoff, no one could go wrong arranging tomatoes, basil and mozzarella on a plate? But before you decide that silly season has pitched its parasol on the food pages, think back to all the caprese salads you have had, and, if you live in Britain, you’ll realise it is indeed possible to ruin this Italian classic. According to Angela Hartnett: “While [it] appears on menus everywhere, very few places make it well.”Mostly, of course, this is down to ingredients; if you’ve only got “cheap, rubbery mozzarella and watery, chilled tomatoes”, as Hartnett puts it, you should probably make something else instead, but even the best raw material still requires careful handling. It’s not a question of tweaking – as J Kenji Lopez-Alt puts it on US site Serious Eats: “Working on a recipe for caprese salad is kind of like working on updating the Beatles’ classic If I Fell. It’s so damn near-perfect already, where is there to go with it?”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Angela Hartnett’s caprese salad. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianA caprese doesn’t need quinoa, strawberries or even, God forbid, kale. Lopez-Alt puts it perfectly when he says: “A good caprese salad is a culinary endpoint. Like a Neapolitan pizza or a good old American hamburger, it’s a dish that’s so well conceived, so balanced, so downright delicious in its most common incarnation, that to improve upon it by changing its basic form or structure is simply impossible.” No, it just needs to be faultless, and that’s this week’s mission.The tomatoesLacking Capri’s sun-kissed climate, high summer is the only time of year you should consider making a caprese in Britain – although even then Hartnett is dubious, writing in her book Cucina that “the quality of the tomatoes in the UK is often pretty poor, so at the Connaught we roast the tomatoes in order to concentrate the flavour”. For good measure, she chucks on a very generous amount of sugar, plus some thyme and garlic, and slow-roasts them for two hours, until they’re sweet enough to eat like candy. If you can only get hold of orange, watery fruit, then hers is definitely the best approach, but in season, it seems a shame to sacrifice the natural acidity of a ripe tomato in favour of this richer, jammier flavour. (As an aside, talking to the specialist greengrocers Natoora last week, I was informed that you could tell a good quality tomato by its seeds: they should be jellied, rather than watery, and it should feel heavy for its size.)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Christopher Boswell uses semi-green tomatoes. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianInterestingly, Christopher Boswell, executive chef at the Rome Sustainable Food Project, and author of the book Verdure, explains that: “In southern Italy, caprese is almost always served with semi-green tomatoes, and this is intentional. Unripe tomatoes … have higher acidity than juicy red slicing tomatoes. Buffalo milk mozzarella is quite rich, and if served with a ripe sweet tomato and with sweet basil, the dish can just fall flat. A more acidic varietal, or the acidity of a slightly under-ripe tomato brings out the distinct flavour of each ingredient in the dish.” His caprese is crunchy and refreshingly sour – quite a different dish to one made with fully ripe tomatoes. My testers enjoy it while also regretting the loss of sweetness, so I think a mixture of different varieties is ideal if you can find them. Saveur magazine suggests combining big beefy berthas and little cherry or grape tiddlers, while Jamie Oliver simply recommends “good mixed ripe tomatoes of different shapes and sizes”, which just about covers it, although try and include some tarter or greener ones in there if you can. Greengrocers, farm shops and markets should have a decent selection in August if you don’t grow your own.Russell Norman’s book Polpo contains a recipe that starts by sprinkling the tomatoes with salt “to pull on the juices” before putting the salad together, a step that really seems to bring out their flavour, as well as creating an instant and intensely tomatoey dressing.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Saveur suggests combining beefy berthas with cherry tiddlers. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianMozzarellaTo be honest, before soft, tangy fresh mozzarella came into my life I was pretty happy with the milky vacuum-packed variety. Sadly, now I know better and it’s impossible to go back. You don’t need a lot here, so splash out on the good stuff. Saveur suggests burrata instead, which is mozzarella’s blingier, cream-filled cousin – undoubtedly decadent, and undoubtedly delicious, but too blandly rich here for my testers, who miss the lactic sourness of straight mozzarella.Tear it, as Oliver suggests, rather than cutting it into uniform slices. It’s easier to dot around the salad, and looks, as he says in Jamie’s Italy, more rustic, which is rarely a bad thing in a salad.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Russell Norman’s caprese. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianThe basilAnother revelation last week – I finally realised why so many chefs, including Hartnett, Boswell and Saveur, call for basil “ideally with small leaves”. Genovese basil, which is the proud holder of a European protected designation of origin, has tiny leaves, and an intensity of fragrance and flavour that makes it almost unrecognisable for those of us used to the standard sort. It’s so sweet it’s almost clove-like. That said, it’s also pretty expensive, and fiendishly hard to get hold of – and even the ordinary stuff is pretty good, especially if you save the larger leaves for pesto.Oliver makes his into a “lovely smashed basil dressing” by grinding it up in a pestle and mortar with a good pinch of salt and some olive oil. It looks pretty, but the herb seems to lose some of its potency, which is a shame, so I’d mess about with it as little as possible.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jane Baxter and John Vincent add shallot and garlic. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianThe extrasOliver adds a little finely chopped spring onion to the mix, while Jane Baxter and John Vincent’s Leon Happy Salads opts for shallot and garlic; both excellent things with tomato, but they rather overpower the mozzarella, as does Saveur’s balsamic vinegar. Indeed, a debate rages as to whether vinegar, also used in various iterations by Baxter and Vincent, and Oliver, has any place in a caprese at all. Marcella Hazan, the grande dame of Italian food writing in the US, writes that, “in the classic caprese, there is no vinegar, but Victor [her husband] insists it is a required part of the juices in his version” – so clearly there’s some leeway. If you have a good mix of different tomatoes, however, including some sharper varieties, then I don’t think vinegar is really necessary, so taste before adding. Decent olive oil, however, is non-negotiable.Finally, make sure all the ingredients are at room temperature before you start – not that you should be refrigerating your tomatoes or basil anyway.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Perfect caprese salad. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the Guardian(serves 4 with bread)About 600g tomatoes of different shapes and sizes, including some slightly under-ripe or more acidic varietiesExtra virgin olive oil250g buffalo mozzarellaSmall bunch of basil, preferably with smallish leavesCut the tomatoes into different sized slices and chunks depending on their size and shape – large craggy fruit often looks better cut into cross sections. Cut out the core if it looks chewy. Put into a bowl and sprinkle with sea salt, leave to sit for 10 minutes, then add 1 tbsp extra virgin olive oil and gently toss with a couple of spoons.Arrange the tomatoes on a platter, spooning over their juices. Tear the mozzarella over the top, and scatter with torn basil leaves. Drizzle with more oil and season with a little more salt. Serve.Caprese: a classic that’s impossible to get wrong, or a recipe for disaster at the hands of creative cooks? Do you prefer to keep it simple, or have you got a special tweak you think improves on perfection?