Alan Carr’s Grease Night  8pm, Channel 4Reliably ribald master-of-ceremonies Carr hosts this celebration of the rock’n’roll musical, live from a school hall transformed, for one night only, into a swell 1950s-style prom. With singing, dancing and a guest appearance from original Grease star Didi Conn (AKA pink-haired Frenchy), it’s probably best not to put up a fight. But if you need a refresher course in summer loving, the movie screens immediately beforehand. GVFaster, Higher, Stronger: Katarina’s Olympic Dream12.45pm, BBC1Great Britain will not have a bigger sentimental favourite at the Rio Olympics than Jessica Ennis-Hill, who hopes to defend her title in the women’s heptathlon. Prompting mixed feelings and hedged bets will be the fact that one of her most potent rivals is a compatriot – Katarina Johnson-Thompson. This profile shows her training regime, recovery from surgery and hopes of succeeding Ennis-Hill. AMThe Marvellous World of Roald Dahl 8pm, BBC2Fascinating documentary about the magical author, with his words brought to life by new sketches from Quentin Blake. Dahl’s personal life offered plenty of inspiration, from the time he crashed his plane over north Africa to the story of how he met Walt Disney after taking an interest in his “gremlins”. Robert Lindsay tells the tales expertly while the author’s widow Liccy and daughter Lucy talk about the man they loved. HVMrs Brown’s Boys Live 9pm, BBC1Christmas now comes twice a year, as Brendan O’Carroll’s enormously popular Irish sitcom returns for a summer special. Viewers spellbound by the regular professionalism (the corpsing, ad-libbing, spur of the moment penis gags) will be intrigued by the conceit here: a live show. No guest stars, but there will be plenty to detain us as Agnes decides to meddle in Mark and Betty’s faltering sex life, and Dermot must decide what to do about Buster. JRKeith Richards: The Origin of the Species 9.45pm, BBC2Julien Temple applies his celebrated cut-up style to the formative years of England’s alternative queen mum, Keef: the man with a face like an ancient treasure map, seemingly kept alive by the nostalgic dreams of 15 million baby boomers. Here’s how the former choirboy got expelled from school, went to art college, and even once joined the Scouts: “I was a patrol leader.” Pause. “Beaver patrol!” Cackle, snort, wheeze. AJCBeatrix Potter with Patricia Routledge 6.55pm, More4Patron of the Beatrix Potter Society, Patricia Routledge hosts a celebration of the children’s author, first shown earlier this year. More than a century before Kindle, Potter was a successful self-publisher: having created Peter Rabbit to soothe a friend’s ailing child, she screwed up her rejection letters and put the book out herself. She stayed in control after her death, bequeathing swathes of the Lake District to the National Trust. JSUltimate Brain 9.30am, CBBCHosted by “half-monkey” Dr Brain – who may just be a bloke in Planet Of The Apes get-up, but don’t tell younger sprogs – the gameshow kicks off its third series. The six rounds, designed to test science knowledge, invention and creativity are pleasingly silly, especially when Brain’s sidekick, Guinea Pig, gets involved. There’s another episode on Sunday (9.30am), when Matilda Ramsay and her twin siblings, Jack and Holly, make up the celeb team. JWFilm choiceToy Story (John Lasseter, 1995) 5.15pm, BBC1      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Buzz Lightyear and Woody’s struggle for survival … Toy Story. Photograph: Allstar/WALT DISNEY/PIXAR/Sportsphoto LtdThe film that signalled a new age of computer-generated animation, courtesy of Pixar. There’s so much more to it than the thrill of the special effects: the tale of a boxful of toys struggling for survival is fast, funny, and thoughtful on issues of friendship and loyalty, particularly in the rivalry between cowboy Woody (voiced by Tom Hanks) and astronaut Buzz Lightyear (Tim Allen).The Amazing Spider-Man (Marc Webb, 2012) 7.45pm, ITVNot sure the world needed a Spider-Man remake so soon after the Sam Raimi/Tobey Maguire trilogy, but there’s undeniably a buzz about Marc Webb’s new version. Andrew Garfield is an endearingly gawky Peter Parker-cum-web-slinger, wrestling with teen-love problems and growing into his new spider powers, while Rhys Ifans is Dr Curt Connors, whose own molecular meddling sees him become violent supervillain The Lizard.Amy (Asif Kapadia, 2015) 9pm, More4 After Senna, documentarist Kapadia turns to another fast-living star who died too young with the painfully haunting life-story of Amy Winehouse. Through a superb montage of home video and archive footage including everything from mobile phones to TV appearances, it follows her from starry-eyed teenager to her miserable funeral, aged 27, in 2011. Despite her father Mitch’s dismissal of the end product, it’s a harrowing account of the very public self-destruction of a brilliant young talent.