The National Theatre has launched its new programme featuring a gender-fluid approach to Shakespeare and JM Barrie, a colour-blind revival of Amadeus, and the commissioning of four new plays written by women.Rufus Norris, who took over as artistic director of the National Theatre in May 2015, reaffirmed his commitment to diversity announcing a programme that includes Shakespeare’s Twelfth Night, in which the classic male role of Malvolio is to be reimagined as Malvolia, played by Tamsin Greig. The theatre’s new production of Peter Pan will also see Captain Hook played by a woman and in the first National Theatre revival of Peter Shaffer’s Amadeus since it debuted on the National stage 37 years ago, Lucian Msamati will play Salieri.The bold programming contrasts with the difficult financial future faced by the National Theatre. A large income stream generated by the successful commercial run of War Horse will come to an end in March. This decline in revenue, coupled with a 30% loss of government subsidy since 2010, equating to around £5m, has led the National Theatre to stop all Sunday performances from April.The additional performances were first introduced in 2008 to draw in new audiences, but NT executive director, Lisa Burger, said they had not proved popular and were always the last to sell. She said: “Given the tight financial situation, we decided it was one of the things we had to give up, which was rather sad. Sunday performances was a fantastic initiative which we were really keen to take forward because we thought it was a way of opening up audiences, but the fact is there aren’t as many audiences coming.”Norris was adamant that the financial “contraction” of the organisation had not affected the theatre’s programming and developing, and said they were in fact expanding their new work department as well as regional and diversity programmes. As part of Norris’s commitment to “360 degree diversity”, the National Theatre has set a target to reach a 50/50 gender balance of living writers and directors by 2021. The new NT Board appointment of Sir Lenny Henry, a vocal campaigner on diversity, was also hailed by Norris as an important step forward.“We’ve got to make this feel like, not just an organisation, but an industry that is open to the whole of the nation. Am I happy with the way things are at the moment? No, otherwise we wouldn’t be putting so much effort into it … we can and need to do better,” said Norris. It followed on from his recent comments to the Guardian that diversity would be one of his main priorities. He said: “I think it is very important that we reflect the city and the country we are in. We have to be national in terms of what we are debating, the subjects we are looking at, and particularly the people and stories we are representing.”As such, the upcoming season will also showcase the new generation of female playwrights, including new work by Lucy Kirkwood, Bryony Kimmings, Nina Raine and Gillian Slovo. Fresh from debuting her critically lauded play Fake It ’Til You Make It, at Edinburgh Festival and Soho Theatre, Kimmings will bring her musical A Pacifist’s Guide To The War on Cancer to the Dorfman in October. Norris described Kimmings as “one of the most arresting performance artists of the moment” and said he had high hopes her work would bring a new audience to the National.Norris will also personally direct the new play by Lucy Kirkwood, Mosquitoes, her first work since Chimerica – which transferred to the West End in 2013.The programme also proved the NT’s continuing ability to entice some of the biggest names in both theatre and film on to its stages. The revival of Tony Kushner’s Pulitzer prize-winning play Angels In America, which premiered at the NT in 1992, will star Andrew Garfield, while Ralph Fiennes will return in a 2018 production of Antony and Cleopatra and Rory Kinnear will star in The Threepenny Opera in May. The future of the temporary theatre, which was put up after the closure of the Cottesloe, remains uncertain. It will host its final production in May, but Norris said they had not yet decided whether to knock it down. Following on from George Osborne’s autumn statement, Norris said he was confident the funding for the National Theatre would remain “stable” for the next two years, and emphasised his commitment to bringing NT productions to audiences outside the capital.He said: “As the country becomes more London-centric, I think it’s important we swim against the tide.”