BBC Music Sound of 2017 longlist revealed: Jorja Smith, Anderson Paak and more It’s May 2015, and Instagrammers are commenting on a picture of a stormy sky uploaded by mysterious musician the Japanese House. “The 1975, that you?” asks one. “The Japanese House is the 1975, solved,” posts another. Amber Bain laughs as she recalls the speculation. The vague cover art for her first EP, Pools To Bathe In, plus the fact that the Manchester indie poppers were producing her music, meant rumours swirled about her identity. “Everyone thought [effervescent 1975 frontman] Matt Healy was singing,” the 21-year-old laughs, and it’s true that her vocal style bears a resemblance. But when Bain eventually decided to unveil herself – sporting baggy knitwear, a Kurt Cobain-ish mop of hair over her eyes and Fender Mustang in hand – another question arose. “There was a big debate online as to my gender,” she says. Did it offend her? “No, it probably benefitted me, because at the beginning I wasn’t labelled as ‘female artist X’ rather than ‘songwriter’.”Of course, a bit of mystery is hardly uncommon in the minimal electronic pop genre in which Bain operates, where you can’t always be sure that a song has ended, and everyone usually turns out to be from the Home Counties anyway (Bain is from Buckinghamshire). Even while their songs were soundtracking every British drama on TV at the time, the xx remained indistinguishable from most other hoodie-wearing London teens. And London Grammar’s initial web presence was so limited that it was a struggle to track them down among all the online dictionaries. Yet hungry Spotify playlisters can’t get enough of this “enigmatic” genre and its sparkling, shoegazey sadness.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The 1975’s Matt Healy: ‘I am pretentious. And I’m not apologising’ Bain’s own trajectory has been steep. She was spotted by Healy after posting demos online as a bored A-level student, and was soon signed to the same label as the 1975 (Dirty Hit, also home to Wolf Alice and Marika Hackman). For the next two years, she worked on the Japanese House – named after a Cornwall holiday home she stayed in as a child and where she pretended to be a boy for a week – and has to date released three EPs. She’s about to go on a stadium tour in support of – you guessed it – The 1975 and has just been unveiled on the longlist for the BBC’s influential Sound Of… poll (“My dad’s always emailing me these things as if I didn’t know. I’m like: ‘Dad, this is my job!’”). Key to being good at her “job” is her knack for writing an introspective song for a glum-hum, bringing together that tried and tested sparseness with My Bloody Valentine-ish guitars and swelling drums. Her music is meditative by name and nature, with titles such as Cool Blue, Still and Letter By The Water. She has attempted to find inspiration in other places, but each one seems to come back to loss and heartbreak. Of her song Leon, she says she was originally inspired by the film of the same name.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The xx announce details of their third album, I See You – and listen to their new track On Hold “I found it really interesting, the blurred lines of morality in the protagonists’ relationship – but it ended up turning into something personal,” she explains. The song, she continues, was “drawn from being broken up with, I was just really pissed off”. Her heart is no longer shattered – she briefly mentions a girlfriend – but these are the themes she still gravitates towards. “I’ve been fairly happy for quite a while but still the songs I seem to write are – unhappy is not the right word – searching, maybe. Reflective, maybe not on the brightest of things.” Bain’s music may be moody but she is slowly starting to embrace perky pop hooks alongside those barely there beats, too. Face Like Thunder, from her latest EP, Swim Against The Tide, starts like the others – quiet, pleading – before an exuberant 80s-style synth line forces its way out. “Obviously it is different to my other songs,” says Bain, “but when I listen to the rest of my stuff I kind of go: ‘Is it pop [too]?’ I’m still coming to terms with what pop actually means in relation to my music.” It is not, however, a dirty word to her: “I listen to a lot of Beyoncé, obviously, and I went through a Taylor Swift stage, everyone has. There’s definitely a skill in writing a banger.”Despite her reverence for polished chart tunes, it seems doubtful that we’ll see Bain asking Pitbull for a middle eight quite yet. But she’s working on the road, and has already penned a tune for her debut LP. The premise? “Oh, just another uplifting club hit!” she says wryly. Don’t bet your house on it.The Japanese House supports the 1975 at Manchester Arena, Tuesday 13 December; The O2, SE10, Thursday 15 & Friday 16 December; touring to 22 December