David’s in prison! Because, it later emerges, he forgot he’d sent off his passport to be renewed. Which is ridiculous: if you’re desperate to find your passport to keep you out of the nick, you don’t just forget that you sent it somewhere a couple of weeks ago, do you?Anyway, it means David’s banged up, which is fun. Our own The Night Of? More like Porridge actually. And cellmate Robbie very nearly went to the same school as David, would have if his parents had been able to afford it. “The different paths life takes us, eh?” says David in the canteen. Something to think about.Adam’s storyline has gone more Location, Location, Location – he’s looking at propertiezzzzzz. Not at all interested I’m afraid, even if will-they-won’t-they-get-a-bloody-move-on Tina is there too. Karen’s is better – celebrating a new business partnership by getting physical with her new digital toyboy to Olivia Newton-John. That’s the spirit. The sooner she gets rid of Steady Eddie the better.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The sooner Karen gets rid of Steady Eddie the better. Photograph: Ben Blackall/Big Talk Productions/ITVPete’s had the one massive OMG moment in New Cold Feet, when he pressed a euthanasia pillow over old Harry’s head, even if Harry did come back to life again (for a short time). Now Pete’s at it again, threatening to kill himself, standing on the edge of a quarry … and JUMPING. Nooooooo! I thought the pills were working; they were until Robert bloody Webb showed up…Oh, Pete’s come back to life too. I hope he lasts longer than Harry. So the body lying in the quarry in a pool of blood is some kind of vision. Pete is seeing himself if he had jumped, and he hasn’t (yet) – he’s still standing on the edge. But the phone rings, his mobile provider, perhaps they’re offering him an upgrade to an iPhone7. And that’s why Pete changes his mind. Jen’s on call waiting, to say Robert bloody Webb did – change his mind, about meeting his daughter Chloe. So come home and have a cuppa instead of jumping off the cliff.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Arrrrr … Young Adam lets Pete join his band for the night. Photograph: Ben Blackall/Big Talk Productions/ITVBetter than a cuppa, to the pub, where young Adam’s band is playing. And big Adam has arranged for Pete to take a turn on drums. Arrrr. I wanna hold her wanna hold her tight, get teenage kicks right through the night. There’s not a dry eye in the house, including this one. Cold Feet can do that – be pretty silly, and then hit you with the tear-gas.It gets even better. Karen gives Eddie the old heave-ho. Good riddance. And this week’s life lesson: grab it while you still can. Dump, don’t jump. 