Every year as summer in Rome grows brighter and warmer, colourful awnings spring up at every door to shield shops and homes from the sun. "Imagine if every piece of fabric in those streets … could capture sunlight to produce electricity," says Aldo Di Carlo, professor of electronic engineering at Tor Vergata University in Rome.Di Carlo, who co-directs the Centre for Hybrid and Organic Solar Energy (Chose), thinks there's a real prospect of this happening in the not so distant future. "The basic research is already there," he says, "and we are working to liberate it from the lab and turn it into viable solutions for the market.""Organic solar cells" use biological molecules to mimic the light-capturing component of photosynthesis, incorporated into ultrathin, flexible panels. This year Chose presented a prototype of an emergency tent with integrated organic solar panels. These are currently visible as patches on the fabric, but according to Di Carlo, soon enough we won't see them at all.Hiding solar cells in a fabric's weave is just one of many possibilities for an invisible energy revolution. One day they could be built into car roofs, cellphone cases, windows and building materials, for example.Chose was established at Tor Vergata University in 2006, but organic solar cells were first developed in the early 1990s by the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne as part of the family of "thin film solar cells" – layers of photovoltaic materials just one micron (one-thousandth of a millimetre) thick. The cells usually comprise a photo-active layer sandwiched between two conductive electrodes.Scientists all over the world study photosynthesis with a view to reproducing its mechanism to generate electricity or biofuels. By contrast, researchers working on organic solar cells aim to reproduce just the first, light-capturing step of photosynthesis using natural pigments, for example from wild berries or aubergine skin. The pigment molecules absorb photons and transfer their energy to an electrically conducting layer made of titanium dioxide.Despite being developed two decades ago, organic solar cell technology is not yet mature enough to be competitive in most parts of the world. Some countries have now made photovoltatic-generated energy competitive with electricity generated from fossil fuels, known as "grid parity" – at least for specific markets. For example, Italy has achieved grid parity in its residential power generation and Cyprus in its industrial sector.But for now, grid parity can only be achieved through a combination of government subsidies, good solar conditions and high fossil fuel prices. According to Di Carlo, to reach grid parity and make solar energy stand alone without subsidies would require what he calls a "pervasive photovoltaic system" – in which solar cells are built into the very fabric of cities.At the moment, photovoltaic technology is not efficient enough to produce a significant amount of energy from a small surface. And if conventional solar cells are still well behind fossil fuels in terms of efficiency, thin film solar cells are even less productive.The solution proposed by Di Carlo is to exploit the advantages of thin film cells to hide solar panels everywhere: "in the structure of a building, in a cellphone case, in a tent's fabric, on a car roof". These cells are cheaper and can be produced easily using a technique similar to printing. They are also very light and flexible, and can be as transparent as glass."I see a future in which every window will be photo-active. By engineering solar cells to capture infrared light, invisible to the human eye, we can obtain completely transparent solar cells that can be integrated in glass without shielding the visible light."Di Carlo and his team are looking at pervasive solar energy as one of a group of applications that will revolutionise our energy supply without changing the shape of our cities. "Energy will be produced and consumed locally," he says. "The whole idea of electricity supply will get closer to the concept of an information technology network. Now we generate and transport energy in a well-defined hierarchical way, but in the future we will see it as a nontangible flow that is generated and utilised locally."