When I was growing up in the 1980s and 90s, I learned to imagine that my adult life would be shaped and defined by a progression of events: the end of education, the establishment of a career, marriage, parenthood. Caring about a 401K, buying a home. Sitting through the speeches as a guest at 35 weddings, listening to the youths of people I knew and relatives being eulogized by their parents and friends, I used to wonder when I, too, would reach the turning point in my life where my youth would be tied up in a tidy, hilarious narrative – “at seven, she objected to the signing of biblical songs in her public school music class”. If I didn’t get married or have children, I wondered, when would I be declared a grown up?As my cohort – I like to call us “Geriatric Millennials” – makes the inexorable trot towards middle age, it seems to me that the defining line of youth and maturity comes not with marriage (declining in importance, unnecessary for families to be built) children (more optional than they once were) or career (uncertain, changeable). Rather, the more universal experience is one that rarely bears conversation until it actually happens: our role in the transition of our parents in their post-family lives. It’s fair enough that people ask kids what they want to be when they grow up, and not how they plan to deal with clearing out the accumulated detritus of a lifetime in a family home, or supporting parents as they strive to live their best lives after retirement, the loss of partners, or through illness.When my father died of cancer early in 2014, I was another unwilling inductee into the club of people who’ve lost parents at an age that wasn’t young, exactly, but which still felt too soon. After a while I came to realize that, if you love your parents, there’s probably never a time that feels ideal. Even so, I found that these were the people from whom I received the best insight and empathy about the long road ahead: not just the grieving process, but of the shocking realization that as adult children, we were on our own in ways we’ve never been before.I’ve never felt older than I did this week: partly because I celebrated my 35th birthday, but more because I spent the day helping my mother, along with my sister and brother-in-law, to move into a new home 4,000 miles from the one that she shared with my dad. It’s been a long process, from the immediate aftermath of my father’s death, to the huge amount of work that my mother had to do to clear out our family home. You can’t, I learned, hang on to all kinds of items from your childhood in the hopes that in your retirement years you’ll pull them out of a box and spend ten minutes finding them charming; they’ll neither bring back your youth nor the people who they remind you of. (We also learned that no one really wants to wear or buy a coat made out of a pony that’s been dead for a century).Watching my mother unlock the door to her new home, back in the city where she lived when she met my father about 40 years ago, I thought about all of the times that she watched, but did not interfere with milestones in my progress to independence. The first time I drove a car on my own in the winter (into a snowbank). The time she left me for my first night in my college dorm (I begged the next morning to be taken home and enrolled in the local university). The time I was dropped at the airport to catch a bus to a larger airport so that I could emigrate to a different continent (our local airport was small). I felt proud of my mother, but I also felt scared: nervous about leaving her to start her new life so far away from where I live. I know I’m going to have to suppress my worry about her wellbeing, her happiness, whether she’s eating enough vegetables. I guess this is what it feels like to be an adult. 