Hollywood’s chorus of protest at the Oscars’ failure to nominate actors of colour for awards this year suggests widespread soul-searching and yearning for reform.George Clooney on Tuesday joined Michael Moore, Spike Lee, Jada Pinkett Smith and other film industry figures who lamented that the Academy nominated only white actors for the second consecutive year, and ignored other black talent behind the cameras.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Jada Pinkett Smith criticises Academy in Oscars race row The Academy president, Cheryl Boone Isaacs, said she was “heartbroken and frustrated” by the lack of diversity and vowed “dramatic” changes to reform the organisation, which comprises about 6,300 people in the film industry.But not everyone agrees. Some think the protests are overzealous political correctness. And others doubt Academy members will support meaningful changes.Industry observers and players told the Guardian there was a silent constituency which rejected the #OscarsSoWhite critique but did not speak out for fear of being branded racist.“It’s a powder keg and no one is going there,” said one established film-maker, a political conservative who declined to be named. “There’s no upside to getting involved.”Al Sharpton backs Oscars boycott over all-white nominations Jeffrey Wells, a veteran Los Angeles-based film blogger, said others shared his view that the NWA biopic Straight Outta Compton and Michael B Jordan’s’ performance in Creed, for instance, were not Oscar-worthy but that few would say so publicly.“Anyone who is accomplished enough to be an Academy member knows how the game is played. They’re not stupid and so they will duck their heads to not be tarred and feathered for having (supposed) racist attitudes.”The media were equally skittish, said Wells. “Nothing terrifies them so much as being seen as being insensitive so they go along with it. No one stands up and says such and such isn’t worthy.”The blogger said Straight Outta Compton and Creed, which was directed by Ryan Coogler, were well-made crowd-pleasers but lacked “refinement”. Academy critics have said those films, plus Will Smith’s performance in Concussion, Idris Elba in Beasts of No Nation and Samuel Jackson in The Hateful Eight merited nominations. An assistant director, who declined to be named, said the lack of African American representation was unfortunate but did not necessarily justify the promised boycotts by Moore, Lee and Pinkett Smith. “If the discrimination is so horribly bad, why isn’t Chris Rock stepping down?”George Clooney says the Oscars are moving backwards on diversity Rock is due to host the 88th Oscar ceremony, presented by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, at LA’s Dolby theatre on 28 February.He will provide a black face for an overwhelmingly white organisation. A 2012 Los Angeles Times study found that nearly 94% of Oscar voters were white. Some 2% were black and 2% were Latino. More than three quarters of voters were male. The median age was 62.Husam Sam Asi, a Hollywood Foreign Press Association member who has a vote in the Golden Globes, said the industry’s apparent self-flagellation over lack of diversity in this year’s nominations masked the contentment of many Academy voters.“They don’t see it as a problem because they don’t think they’re doing anything wrong. It’s the status quo. As you get older the last thing you want is for things to change because it’s uncomfortable. With just 2% black membership why would anyone be surprised that there are so few black nominations?”A similar row erupted last year when Selma failed to get a director’s nod for Ava DuVernay or a best actor nod for David Oyelowo, who played Martin Luther King Jr.This year’s controversy is snowballing. Oyelowo said the Academy “doesn’t reflect me, and it doesn’t reflect this nation”.Clooney told Variety the Academy was moving in the wrong direction. “I think that African Americans have a real fair point that the industry isn’t representing them well enough. I think that’s absolutely true.” The actor said Hollywood also discriminated against Latinos and women.After Lee and Pinkett Smith announced their boycotts, Boone Isaacs – the first African American to hold the role of president, and the third woman – issued a statement promising big changes.“The academy is taking dramatic steps to alter the makeup of our membership. In the coming days and weeks we will conduct a review of our membership recruitment in order to bring about much-needed diversity in our 2016 class and beyond.”David Oyelowo calls for radical reform of the Oscars to tackle diversity deficit Many Academy members have welcomed the push for reform. “I think the row is marvellous,” said Christina Pickles, who played the mother of Ross and Monica in Friends. “It’s time there was a light shining on this. It’s appalling that no black actors were nominated.”Peter Devlin, an Oscar-nominated sound mixer who has worked on Transformers, said he would love to see more plurality. “It’s good that this conversation is being had.”Wells, the blogger, agreed the Academy needed an overhaul, saying that it was right to ignore Straight Outta Compton and Creed but betrayed “racist attitudes” in snubbing Elba and Beasts of No Nation, an important film about conflict in Africa which presented a world alien to Academy voters. Another reason for the snub, he said, was that it was made by Netflix.Wells suggested weighting Academy votes so that those cast by people currently working in film carried more sway than those of people who retired years or decades ago.