As a teenager I used to hang out at the skate park after school. It’s where most of my friends were. I’d just sit there while they all skated, chatting to them when they were resting. I thought it looked really cool. Back then it was rare to see girl skaters, so even though I gave it a go and my friends were supportive, I didn’t really get into it. That changed when I started uni and moved to Brighton. The majority of skaters were still guys, and when I’d go to a skate park people would stare; but I reached a point where I just stopped caring and got on with it.As a skater, you see the world differently. During driving lessons I’ll be trying to concentrate on the road, but then I’ll see some stairs or a rail and get distracted, thinking how great it would be to skate there. Towns become massive playgrounds. I’ll skate around Brighton with my mates and we’ll have so much fun discovering new spots.Some people don’t understand why we want to skate on the streets when we’ve got skate parks, and I’ve been kicked out of a few places by some very aggressive security guards (and some polite ones). Skate parks usually have perfect, smooth surfaces, and they’re the same every time, whereas every street spot comes with its own unique challenges. The possibilities are endless.I love developing new skills, learning new tricks. Even once you’ve mastered a trick on flat ground, you can then learn how to do it over an obstacle, or on to something. And when you manage a really gnarly trick for the first time, it’s a huge thrill. I scream with excitement.It can be dangerous – I’ve fractured an elbow, my ankle and both wrists (twice) – but if I’m physically able to skate, I will. I used to skate with my cast on.It’s great exercise, especially for your legs, but that’s not why I do it. It’s a lifestyle. It’s an addiction. But it’s also therapeutic. When you’re doing tricks, hanging out with your mates, you forget about all your troubles, all the depressing stuff, and just have fun.My workout: Milly Taylor, 23, rugby union player - ‘I love the sense of belonging’ My weekend workoutHow often do you skate? Whenever I can.Favourite trick? ‘No comply’, where you put one foot on the ground, pop the board up and jump back on.Best place to skate? Barcelona – the vibe is incredible.Five ways to get started1 You don’t have to share a space with experienced skateboarders. Many indoor parks offer sessions or even lessons for beginners.2 To establish which foot belongs at the front of the skateboard, find a flat surface and stand on the board with both feet facing off to one side, holding a rail or fence for balance. Look over your right shoulder and shuffle along the fence; if that feels awkward, do the same while looking over your left shoulder.3 Before you can learn any tricks, you have to feel comfortable on the flat. Place your front foot on the board and very gently push off with your back foot, before stepping it on to the board. For balance and safety, keep your knees bent and your chin over your front knee.4 A good trick is the ollie, where the board leaves the ground. Put your front foot in the middle of the board and your back foot on the tail. In one quick motion, hit the tail down, scrape your front foot up the board and jump your back foot up, then land on two feet.5 It’s common to feel more fear as an adult than you would as a child. It makes learning slower but no less enjoyable. • Lucy Adams, skateboarding coachEssential kit      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   From left: Lovenskate Drink Tea, Get Rad board, £49.99,lovenskateshop.bigcartel.com; Pro-Tec Spitfire Red helmet, £27.95,prolineskates.com; Vans Butterfly Dreams Old Skool shoes, £55,vans.co.uk