It’s a hot day in Melbourne, and artist and “smell expert” Sissel Tolaas is standing on Gertrude Street trying to describe eau de Fitzroy: “There are loads of interesting smells around Melbourne – there are lots of bodies walking around Gertrude Street in the heat, providing information about what they eat and didn’t eat, where they came from and where they are heading. All kinds of levels of micro invisibility are being communicated – particularly strongly, since it’s a very hot day.”The sweet smell of Amsterdam … and it's not just cannabis, say odour mappers Tolaas inhales again. “It reminds me of other neighbourhoods in Berlin and New York,” she says. “There’s something in the air.”Tolaas is used to taking measure of the air. Smells – elusive, ephemeral, disgusting, pleasant – can trigger memories, or cause us to salivate or feel aroused or repulsed, and yet we barely give them a second thought. But for Tolaas, smell is the basis of her life’s work.The 56-year-old Norwegian is based in Berlin, where she’s employed in projects that range from the scientific, to the commercial, to the artistic, to the historical. She has been in Australia this week to explore projects with Dennis Paphitis, the founder of global skincare brand Aesop.“In general I work 24 and seven. Every day you breathe in so much air that contains so much information, in the form of molecules – incredible information, about [your] surroundings. As long as there is a whole planet to smell, I’m very busy.”Just as Tolaas does yoga every morning to keep her body fit, she does a 30-minute workout each day for her nose, keeping her sense of smell sharp.“My nose has become very important for me to understand the world. Having discovered what the nose is able to do, and having the awareness of smells ...” She pauses. “Woah – life begins to be so much more interesting.”Sissel Tolaas’s personal library of 7,000 recreated smells and 2,500 molecules, stored in glass jars, is “a result of seven years of walking, travelling and smelling parts of the world”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sissel Tolaas: ‘As long as there is a whole planet to smell, I’m very busy.’ Photograph: SuppliedAlthough she doesn’t use her smells library to create commercial perfume (nor does she wear perfume or deodorant), she has teamed up with International Flavors & Fragrances Inc (IFF), a huge chemical-perfume company which makes the molecules that go into perfumes, cleaning products and food products. Tolaas describes it as one of a small number of companies which controls how the world smells and tastes. It advises her on reproducing and archiving the scents in her collection.The practical application of Tolaas’s work is fascinating. Some of it can be categorised as art, and some as commerce.For a museum in Dresden, Germany, she once recreated the smells of the first world war to reconstruct the era. “I looked at history books and used a little bit of imagination, and a little bit of knowledge. I created something [like] a mustard gas. People were sick at the doorway of the museum, smelling it.”She adds: “I will never do world war two.”Once, when she didn’t feel like engaging in small talk at a fancy film premiere in Berlin, Tolaas – dressed glamorously – dabbed molecules on her body of male sweat, dirt, and homeless men. No one came near her all night. According to Icon, while she was working on a project for Adidas she found a molecule in one of David Beckham’s football boots that was similar to a molecule found in cheese, and she made up a wheel of Beckham Limburger that was served to VIPs at the London Olympics.Tolaas’s background is in chemistry, linguistics and visual arts. “I move in between these areas and, on behalf of research and science, I deliver commercial applications,” she says. “I bridge the gap between the two worlds. For example, I am building a huge archive of smells for H&M. We are going back to the beginning with them.”With Adidas, she is working on a molecule for a new shoe, the smell of which aims to convey as much information to the customer as he or she would receive by picking it up and looking at it.Tolaas also works for the major British palaces Hampton Court and Kensington: “[We’re] trying to … see if historical molecules are present that have smell information about habits that have taken place within the house. It’s a new way of discovering history. It’s very interesting.”Smells can have important safety application, too. “Another dimension of my work is to give smells to things that don’t smell … [Natural] gas doesn’t smell, but if two or three molecules get put on top of gas, you can smell it if it’s leaking,” Tolaas says. She is also intrigued by the potential of releasing smells down tunnels to warn people of danger ahead, in the case of a derailment or terrorist attack.Old spines – why we love the smell of secondhand books “Every nano-part of this planet emits a smell – there is no such thing as a ‘clear’ smell,” Tolaas says. But the world is full of false smells, which mask the true, natural odours that we deem to be repulsive. “We live in a world that sanitises, deodorises, masks. Certain smells need to be there, but ... reality is covered up on so many levels – so many commercial products cover up what is really out there and mask it.”Tolaas’s enthusiasm for smells is infectious. For a week after we talk, I start to consciously take note of the smells around me, even savouring the ones I don’t like, like the smell of food being served on a long haul flight.“You have this device on your body and you just have to use it – and it’s free,” she says. “It’s there for a purpose, and we have forgotten it.”