Until you start your own brand, you don’t know quite how hard it’s going to be. I’ve been in a constant panic that I haven’t got it right for season one – even though of course you’re not going to get it completely right first time. But then I worry about not selling anything and going bust … It’s definitely terrifying and totally all‑consuming – but it’s fun. I love the 360 degrees of it: the design process, merchandising, marketing, finance. And I wanted my own brand; I wanted the ability to grow something completely from scratch. It’s exciting not having baggage, that you create a brand from nothing.As a teenager I’d always planned to study fashion – I went to Marlborough College because you can study fine art and business studies there, which I thought would be good for me to start up my own. But there was an incredible art teacher there called Mr Child – he’s the father of Lauren Child, who created the Charlie and Lola books. I got so into painting because of him that I decided to do a fine art degree rather than fashion. But within a year or so of leaving college I realised I didn’t want to be a painter – it’s lonely and you have to have a very strong ego. I was working for clients, one of which was Smythson, so I ended up going to work there in accessory design and then as creative director.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The idea is that my clothes are for busy women’ ... the Cefinn range. Photograph: Cefinn/PAI think women are lucky – we can use fashion to be different people. You can dress up for a party, look androgynous. I like the way different colours, fabrics and textures make you feel. I found it fascinating when the press wrote about some of the clothes I wore when I was the PM’s wife. Quite often the writers found meaning that I found as intriguing as everyone else. The idea that my outfits were planned so that specific colours meant specific things was remarkable. When we won the election, I wore a Preen dress that had green panels on it, and some writers surmised that that was to do with the coalition with the Lib Dems. I’d actually bought two dresses: one for winning, which was more upbeat, and another for losing. I ended up wearing the wrong one – and I wore the one I was meant to wear if we won when Dave resigned as PM. So, you see, the idea that an outfit is planned to a minute level of detail is ridiculous. Though one thing I did find is that it’s hard to find clothes that are creative and feminine. I found it challenging to find clothes when I was at Smythson, too. I think the way we wear clothes in the office has changed, but daywear hasn’t. There’s a gap to be filled. From a price-point perspective, there are US and Scandinavian brands that fill that gap, but not many British ones.One big misconception about fashion is that it’s bitchy or competitive, but as an ambassador for British fashion I found that most of our designers – such as Chris Kane and Erdem – are all good friends and incredibly supportive of each other. It’s also a huge contributor to the British economy. Our fashion colleges have supplied the world with some of its best and most creative designers. We should be really proud of our fashion instead of thinking of it as lightweight.With my clothes, the idea is that they’re for busy women, so most of them have to be washable and easy to look after. I have a lot of silk dresses that I like, but I look at them and know I won’t get through breakfast without ruining them and having to take them to a dry cleaner. Also, women play a lot of different roles in a day – I’m a businesswoman, a mother, a wife, a colleague and a friend. You don’t have time to change for each role, so the collection is full of things that you could wear with trainers or heels, to the office and then out to dinner.My favourite pieces in season one are a khaki coat I really love, and the thing I’ve worn the most is a long, red maxi dress that I had last summer and I wore all the time. I love the red. We spent a long time getting exactly the right red. But don’t worry, there’s no hidden meaning in the colour, the only message is aesthetic.Dave’s been very supportive about Cefinn. We’ve been together since I was 21, I’ve always worked and our lives are built around having these very different careers. And, as he says, I’ve supported him through the last 10 years – now it’s his turn to support me.This article appears in the spring/summer 2017 edition of The Fashion, the Guardian and the Observer’s biannual fashion supplement