I’m not sure that I can withstand another year of the Helen and Rob business. I’ve never listened to the dreary old Archers before, but now that it’s not so dreary, listening is mandatory. It has just been Archers, Archers, Archers for months: long car journeys with Archers chat only, visitors insisting it be switched on while they’re here, and I may not phone Rosemary at 2 or 7 pm, who still loves it after almost 50 years of listening.“It is no discriminator of persons or class,” says she. “Like worms and nits.” And now I am sort of hooked, although I don’t want to be. Same with Fielding, because we’re both enmeshed in too many other series: Saturday Scandi-noirs, Undercover, Line of Duty, Blue Eyes, and (only for me) EastEnders. We have barely a night off, and Fielding is getting frightfully muddled. He no longer knows which headless-body/serial-killer/paedophile-ring/female-detective-with-hopeless-private-life belongs to which series. And now we have to cram in the Archers.We’re blind to an epidemic of domestic abuse | Joan Smith But what wets some Archers fans are, shrinking from the horror, wanting the scriptwriters to stick to moo-cows, baa-lambs, Grundies and general rural slop. Olivia has been squabbling with them on the website. “You’re behaving like society,” she wrote in a fury. “Turning your back on domestic abuse.”“Could you please be more patronising!” answered the Wets, begging for an end to the Rob/Helen saga. But I’m with Olivia here. The more of this harrowing story we hear the better, then the more money Paul Trueman’s Helen Titchener (née Archer) Rescue Fund can raise for women’s refuges – because this wretched government’s cuts have closed down so many – so there’s nowhere for all the thousands of Helens to run to. Once an acquaintance showed me her bruises, real black and blue all down the sides of her body. Before that, I thought “black and blue” was just a turn of phrase, but it isn’t. And Rob’s abuse is easier to hide, but hopefully, the Archers is shining a big, bright spotlight on it. Now, all we need to do is to stop tolerating any of it.