Hot Michigan July. No air conditioning. I’m 11 years old, sitting in church, bored out of my mind. I wanna escape. I look over, and there is this kid, blonde hair limp from the heat, that I’ve never seen before.He sits, staring at his bible. I’m thinking, oh, here’s Mr Goodie Two Shoes. Then he glances to either side, surreptitious-like, and I see him turn the page of a Green Lantern comic hidden in the holy book – even as the preacher rages on. Snap Judgment: the podcast that dives deep for instant gratification I’m so jealous! He catches me looking at him. Grins. Like: “You don’t believe this stuff either?”And just like that, we’re best pals.We spend days at each other’s houses. I love going over to his place, because his parents are German immigrants and use funny words, and his mother makes all of their food from scratch. Not boxes. Not cans. Scratch.“Glynn, would you like the blueberry pancakes?” I love her blueberry pancakes. With the real maple syrup at their kitchen table. Over the years, I don’t know how many I devour. Hundreds, thousands? They live outside a small town, near Lake Michigan. Surrounded by woods. Ronnie and I tear around trails at top speed in a dune buggy he made out of an old Subaru, screaming our heads off. Sail boats out the lake, try talking the girls from Saugatuck into hopping on board.We sign up as roommates freshman year of college. Work together painting apartment buildings that summer. Live together sophomore year, too. Then I move abroad. But even from the other side of the globe, we keep in touch. I find an international telephone in Seoul or Osaka or Taipei to check in and ask about the gang.He’s my lifeline back to the real. He always gives me everybody’s update real quick because he knows the call costs a fortune. I don’t care: for a moment, it’s good to still feel part of his world.And he moves. And I move. And he moves. We start becoming men. I tell him, please understand how good you are at the coding thing, not everyone can do this, dude. He presses me back, asking about my writing. I tell him that I’m learning to go to a place of quiet, of solitude, to first see myself, before letting the words flow. Trying to finding power in stillness.Then I tell him about this beautiful woman I met in a bar. Later, naturally, he comes to our wedding in California. I hug him, make a big show about looking around, ’cause I hoped he’d bring a girlfriend – but he says he’s still flying solo.“All in good time!”“I know.”Then. Life speeds up. We still speak on the phone every few months to share good news. Hey bro, we just had a baby girl. She’s beautiful like her momma. Or hey bro, you’re not gonna believe it, but this big-head, rusty-butt boy looks just like me!“Come out, and when wifey’s not looking, we’ll stick these kids in back of a dune buggy. You can drive.”We laugh. My oldest friend. Now a big in-demand technical superstar. And one day, talking to an acquaintance, she just mentions at the end of a phone call, “Isn’t it great about Ronnie getting married? Those two make such a great couple.”Married?Married. My hands are trembling. “I’m gonna have to call you back.”My oldest friend in the world found a bride, and never bothered to let me know. I took several deep breaths. Waited a few moments. Then I called him.I heard my own voice, flat. “Hey, Ronnie. I heard you got married?”Colour-blind love is the mark of a healthy and dynamic society | Anushka Asthana “Yeah ... I should have told you, but. Well, she’s from a church family, and ...”It doubled me over like a heavyweight jab to the gut.See, our church, the church we both grew up in and laughed at together, that church preached against interracial marriage. But I’d been gone so long, that was so much ridiculousness, that it never occurred to me ...My family, my happy, brown, blonde, ridiculous, green-eyed, noisy, beautiful, Motown-singing, sauerkraut-eating, mixed race union – the very thing of which I am most proud. For which I would lay down my life. Viewed though a certain lens, seen though certain eyes, could be an embarrassment. An abomination. He continued. “You know I don’t have a problem with ‘it’, I just have to be careful, beginning of the relationship and all ...”I didn’t hear the rest, I simply said: “Never speak to me again.”I stewed in that gloom for weeks before doing what I normally do. I sat down to write.But nothing came. Blank screen. I didn’t want go to that quiet space. I didn’t want to lean into that stillness. I didn’t want to face myself. I was scared. Terrified. Because if I did look honestly, what if my childhood, my young adulthood, my history ... what if the central character was an imaginary friend?Finally, after days of staring at blank pages, I turned everything off. The phone. The TV. The internets. Put headphones over my earphones. I leaned into the silence and waited.And the quiet told me, you are so lucky. Look at your wife. Your kids. Your friends. You have found your tribe. So I mourned in the quiet. Just me. I mourned. Tears sticky running down my face, I mourned.Then I got back to work. Glynn Washington hosts the Snap Judgment show, which is distributed by WNYC Studios on over 400 public radio stations.