Guardian control to Major Tim! A joke for you there, Tim Peake, to welcome you back to planet Earth. By now you are one third of the way through your three-week recovery session in Cologne and thoughts, one expects, are with the future.Headlines like “How to use the loo in space”, “Astronaut Tim Peake plays Space Invaders game in space” and “How to make scrambled eggs in space” are all very well, but what is a spaceman when he’s no longer in space?You seem a nice chap. You’re the man who lives two doors away and cleans the barbecue after, rather than before, you use it. You’re just good to have around, whether you’re in space fixing a toilet or on Earth explaining how to hang a picture without drilling an eight-inch hole in the wall.You were down to earth even when you weren’t. But what about your life as a celebrity? Well, the good news is you’re off to a great start, because during your time on the ISS you were certainly, shall we say, rather obliging when it came to getting your face around. That time you read a bedtime story, from space, on CBeebies? A live Q&As with schoolchildren? Yes, those will help inspire a generation of future scientists.Tim Peake comes back to Earth with a bump – Soyuz touchdown ends astronaut’s incredible journey But you rather enjoyed the attention, too, didn’t you, Tim Peake? Perhaps you didn’t ask for fame, but you didn’t exactly send it packing. Remember the day before Christmas when you phoned a pensioner and asked if you had reached planet Earth, before realising you had a wrong number? You got 72,000 engagements on your tweet about that. How was it hanging out with Heston Blumenthal, or chatting with Kasabian on social media, before you went up? Then there was that video appearance on the Brits, where you presented Adele with an award while wearing a shirt with a fake tuxedo design printed on it, looking not unlike someone with a looming stag do and a £10 Amazon voucher. That was the moment you seemed to cross over from being famous for your work, to being a celebrity.And that’s fine. Being a celebrity is a great way to continue part of your mission, spreading the word of science. This is not the time to quibble over whether or not your desire for fame makes the average X Factor finalist look like Leonard Cohen. In 2016, if you want to spread your message – science, it’s quite good – you create shareable moments. But fame in and of itself is also enticing, is it not? We all saw the way you moved your hand in that Brits video, Tim Peake. We saw you giving it the full Tony Blair, flattening that hand and moving it abruptly towards the viewer, in that way people like Rylan do after they’ve been on a three-hour How To Do Presenting course.Has the phone been ringing since you landed, Tim Peake? The phone has obviously been ringing. You may already know bookies are running odds on you appearing on Strictly. But you want to reach younger people, so how about I’m A Celebrity? Would getting headbutted by an ostrich while a peripheral member of the Love Island cast screams about plastic stars help spread the word of science? Maybe, maybe not. Do the show anyway.Has the BBC been in touch? It would clear the schedules if you agreed to help Richard Branson find Britain’s next astronaut. Chris Evans surely wants you for Top Gear: has he phoned you personally to make his case? Is the book deal finalised yet, Tim Peake? You should do these things. Money Supermarket ad? Why not?Cookbook? YES. All for science! It’s just a shame you weren’t in the country for Channel 4’s referendum debate – you would have looked great between Delia Smith and Katie Price.There will, sadly, be moments when your fame needs a bit of a top-up. Here, as ever, we look to the professionals. Look to Adele, the best famous person there is. She’s good at laughing. Look to Drake, whose aptitude for giffable moments is an education for all. And look, as we all must when times are tough, to Geri Halliwell. The Spice Girls was her space mission; by 2004, with a new single looking like it might miss No 1, she rode a horse past the G-A-Y Bar in Soho. It meant everything and nothing.Tim Peake, you need to find your own horse and your own Soho.Fancy riding a pig through Winchester? It’s got to be worth a try. You beat off more than 8,000 people to get into space. Don’t stop now. Your mission is just beginning.