Is wolf-whistling really going to become a hate crime?Possibly, but it is unlikely. What has happened is that, for the first time in England and Wales, a police force is going to record harassment of women as hate crime. Nottinghamshire Police say they are responding to the scale of sexist abuse and intimidation women face on a daily basis. But for an incident to become a crime, it has to cross the threshold of criminality – a wolf-whistle could theoretically be treated as a public-order act offence of threatening or abusive words or behaviour. A single whistle is unlikely to constitute an offence, and police action has to be proportionate to the incident. But if it was part of a pattern of behaviour – for example, online harassment, stalking and constant wolf-whistling in the street near a woman’s home – the perpetrator could well be arrested and prosecuted.What is the scale of misogynistic abuse women are suffering?Enormous, is the simple answer. In a recent poll, the group End Violence Against Women found that 85% of women aged 18-24 had experienced unwanted sexual attention and 45% had experienced sexual touching. Online there is a similar story. Research by Demos into misogynistic abuse online found that 6,500 women were targeted by 10,000 aggressive and misogynistic tweets using the words “slut” or “whore” in a three-week period in the UK. The Fawcett Society says women and girls face a “tidal wave of abuse and harassment” every day.In general, what is hate crime?Police record as a hate crime any offence perceived to be motivated by hostility or prejudice based on any of five protected characteristics: race, religion, sexual orientation, disability and transgender identity. It is open to police to add another category – such as gender – if they notice a trend. According to Dr Nathan Hall, from the Institute of Criminal Justice Studies at the University of Portsmouth, hate crimes are far more prevalent than official statistics suggest. In 2014/5 there were 52,528 hate crimes recorded by the police, an increase of 18%, compared with the 44,471 recorded in 2013/14. But based on the Crime Survey for England and Wales, which is generally accepted to provide a more accurate picture of the scale of crime, there were an average of 222,000 hate crimes per year between 2012 and 2015.How should police behave if I say I am a victim of hate crime?It is enough for a victim to say they believe the offence targeted at them was motivated by hate because of their disability, sexual orientation, race, religion or transgender status for it to be recorded as a hate crime. Victims must be given a risk assessment and further support. There should also be consideration of the wider community of which the victim is part, and what preventative steps might need to be taken.Of course, not every incident reported to police is a crime, but one of the fundamental recommendations of the Stephen Lawrence inquiry was that police forces should record hate incidents, because they can often escalate quickly if left unchecked. So while the powers of police are limited if a victim reports a hate incident that is not a crime, police forces should record them, and where necessary pass information to partner agencies for follow-up. Defining a crime as a hate crime can lead to a greater sentence after conviction, but police and prosecutors have to provide sufficient evidence to prove hostility in order for the sentence to be enhanced.How easy will it be to enforce the decision that misogyny is a hate crime?Recording incidents involving misogynistic abuse in which an offence has been committed as hate crimes should not be difficult, but the designation is likely to put more pressure on much-reduced police resources. Given that crimes online and offline can be recorded as hate crimes, police could be overwhelmed with the demands of risk-assessing victims and investigating the cases. A senior police officer said that if officers nationally had to deal with all the online abuse taking place, they would be overwhelmed.Are other police forces likely to follow?The National Police Chiefs Council says there are currently no plans for other forces to follow Nottinghamshire.Should the man who pays a woman a compliment in a bar be concerned?No. Police have to respond in a proportionate manner to any incident reported. Any suggestion that simply complimenting a woman is what the hate crime designation was introduced for is dismissed by Nottinghamshire Police. “Misogynistic hate crime can cause significant distress to women, who have been known to face threats, and in some cases, sexual or physical abuse for turning down propositions. Claiming we are focusing on wolf-whistling and catcalling does nothing more than trivialise our intentions.”