As a teenage girl growing up in Brisbane in the 80s, it was necessary to be armed with the address of an abortion clinic in Tweed Heads, New South Wales. If you or one of your mates faced the pain and shame of terminating an unwanted pregnancy, you’d jump in the car with a support team of girlfriends and make the fugitive dash south of the border two hours away – or risk being charged with a crime.I’m talking about the 1980s here, not the 1880s, although of course Queensland law on abortion is little changed since the 19th century.Girl, aged 12, forced to wait weeks for Australian court to approve abortion And yet here we are in the 21st, reading about a 12-year-old child being forced through the courts to gain legal approval to have an abortion after a month of trying. All the while, her pregnancy – to another child of the same age – progressed to nine weeks. The girl, known only as “Q”, has in the past attempted suicide twice and has self harmed, and with her parents sought help from a GP, a social worker, an obstetrician, and a psychiatrist to seek an abortion. All this might have happened without the courts – it seems clear that the risk to her mental and physical health was sufficiently worrying to warrant the exceptional circumstances required under the law. But Queensland laws on abortion can make a provider jumpy.Witness the extraordinary case in 2010 of a Cairns couple, Tegan Leach, 20, and Sergie Brennan, 22, who faced criminal charges for importing the abortion drug misoprostol and inducing a miscarriage at home. Leach was charged with procuring her own abortion and faced up to seven years in prison, while Brennan was charged with supplying drugs to procure an abortion and faced up to three.In the minds of reasonable people, such outcomes would be unlikely – surely, wouldn’t they? – but when you are faced with even a slim possibility of being found guilty of such a crime, the worst-case scenario would lurk in every waking moment. This trauma endured for Leach and Brennan for 18 months.Reason did ultimately prevail and they were found not guilty but, as professor of obstetrics and gynaecology Caroline de Costa told Guardian Australia, after that case, many doctors in Queensland stopped performing abortions.The fear and uncertainty in the medical community in relation to providing abortions was at play in the case of “Q”, suggests Professor de Costa, and that “the doctor or doctors and the hospital administration wanted some certainty about the decision. But it seems with both parents giving consent for the procedure, it was unnecessary. “It appears that the girl – or young woman – was quite competent in her own mind. She is certainly not the only 12-year-old in Queensland who is pregnant, and in most cases the procedure happens because the pregnancy is accepted as a risk to the mother’s physical and mental health.“In this case, it appears that the parties concerned didn’t feel safe enough within the law.”Given that the law dates back to 1899 under the Queensland Criminal Code and is detailed under the section “offences against morality” it’s welcome news that independent Queensland MP, Rob Pyne, plans to introduce a bill to strike abortion from the state’s criminal code at the next sitting of parliament.“We are talking about someone who is vulnerable and I would say having to go through this process is cruel and unusual treatment to dish out to a 12-year-old child,” Pyne told Guardian Australia.Cruel, yes. Unusual? Certainly. It is impossible to entertain the possibility that a 12-year-old child becoming a mother would be anything other than deeply harmful to that child, regardless of their personal mental state or their support network. And although a female with the ability to become pregnant may physically be a woman, a 12-year-old is a child in anyone’s book, mentally and emotionally unable to become a parent (and certainly not able to fathom the processes of law, especially when it is such an ass).Yet there are those on the Christian fringes who believe that “with adequate support” the child in question could have proceeded with the pregnancy, given birth, and put the baby up for adoption. Yes, a child who has attempted suicide twice.This is an offence against modern morality. This is tantamount to saying a child should be forced to be an adult. Bearing children at the age of 12 might be in line with 1899 laws and mores, but in 2016? Words fail.Most Australians would find this skewed perspective of the “sanctity of life” offensive. We are a pro-choice country, with the majority of us believing that a woman has the right to seek an abortion in her first trimester, unquestioned, and thereafter with caveats. Access to RU486 is not 'abortion on demand' - women aren't that stupid or fickle | Kylie Stevenson The 2003 Australian Survey of Social Attitudes found that 81% of those surveyed believed a woman should have the right to choose whether or not she has an abortion. The survey also found that religious belief and support for legal abortion are not mutually exclusive, with 77% of those who identify as religious also supporting a woman’s right to choose. Only between 5% and 9% objected to abortion in every circumstance.In the case of “Q”, Judge McMeekin found the evidence was “all one way” in favour of an abortion, citing the risk of “significant and possibly lifelong” mental health problems if it was not allowed, citing evidence from the obstetrician advising Q “the risks of continuing the pregnancy (some of which were potentially life threatening) ‘far outweigh’ the risks involved in terminating”.“He also commented that there were psycho-social implications of having a child at the age of 12, with a ‘lifelong burden, which is likely to affect mental health’,” the judge said. Everyone supported this child’s right to have an abortion, and it was morally correct to do so. But archaic laws got in the way. Let’s hope Rob Pyne’s bill drags Queensland’s idea of morality kicking and screaming into the 21st century.