The UK is a country of meat eaters. The typical diet is high in processed meats containing salt and unhealthy fats, and low in fibres and nutrients from fish, fruit, vegetables, nuts and grains.“We have limited our food choices without even knowing it. We don’t need to eat as much [meat] as we are,” says Duncan Williamson, food policy manager at WWF. “Chicken is about to become the most consumed protein on the planet, overtaking pig. The footprint of producing this much white meat is unsustainable.”While the health and environmental consequences of a diet high in red and processed meat are well-publicised, demand for animal protein generally doesn’t seem to be falling off. A new report from the Carbon Trust on protein diversity found that while awareness of the environmental impacts of livestock production is increasing, it remains “surprisingly low” compared to other environmental issues. The report calls on governments, consumers and food businesses to take more effective actions to scale up protein diversity, and move the UK towards more varied and sustainable diets. The protein problem: why eating too much chicken might not help your diet Consumer actions Campaigns can help increase awareness of food sustainability, according to the report, which highlights Paul McCartney’s Meat Free Monday (MFM) and celebrity chef advocates like Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall. However, studies have shown that awareness alone does not change behaviour. One of the main challenges to diversifying diets in the UK is a lack of knowledge of how to prepare meals without meat, according to the report. Meat alternatives, such as Quorn, which can be prepared in the same way as meat and included in common dishes, are useful. In the short to medium term, using protein-rich ingredients such as pulses, soya, nuts and seeds is the most viable option. More novel sources of protein that could have an even smaller environmental impact, such as algae, insects and lab-grown meat, are expected to have a far longer adoption curve and are unlikely to be making much impact by 2030.Food businessesA lack of available meat-free options from food manufacturers, retailers and restaurants is another key barrier. Take the sandwich, 3.5bn of which are sold in the UK every year. The report cites research from the Eating Better alliance that of 620 sandwiches and wraps surveyed from eight supermarkets and four high street chains, only 3% had fillings that were plant-based. And chicken is king when it comes to ready-meal offerings, according to Williamson.Without more main ingredient options in supermarkets it will be difficult for consumers to make more diverse choices, but the report acknowledges that supermarkets are highly competitive in the drive to meet today’s demand, which limits experimentation. It also warns that moving too far ahead of consumer demand could have negative outcomes, such as food waste.Nevertheless, retailers can create change with more subtle moves, such as product reformulation, branding, marketing and in-store campaigns. “Given that most adults are eating more protein than they require, it is nutritionally quite possible to reduce the overall quantity in some dishes,” says the Carbon Trust’s senior consultant on business advice, Tom Cumberlege. “Reformulation to use less meat, or considering meat alternatives, makes a meal cheaper to produce, allowing for a lower price point or higher margin. There are a lot of ways to introduce new products to consumers but the most successful routes are to focus on taste and price.”Some businesses are already recognising the opportunities of a growing flexitarian market, according to Sue Dibb, coordinator of Eating Better. Pret A Manger is introducing more vegetarian choices and Ikea now has its veggie balls.Technology is ready for synthetic foods. Are you? The report notes encouraging signs from Germany, where a growing number of meat companies are launching vegetarian products in response to changing consumer habits.Established meat-free brands such as Quorn, fronted by Olympic athlete Mo Farah, are preparing to meet a growing demand. Quorn was recently bought for £550m by a Philippines noodle firm and has plans for global expansion. Its chief executive thinks it could become a billion-dollar business in the next 10 to 12 years. New businesses are also recognising the commercial opportunity in the meat-free market. More Than Meat, for example, runs a delivery service for homemade plant-based burgers and markets its products’ nutritional benefits directly against its meaty Waitrose equivalents. Restaurants too have an important role in introducing consumers to a wider range of protein sources. While vegetarian options often feel like an afterthought, Jennifer Pardoe, founder of plant-based food consultancy Zest, says that chefs are working behind the scenes to create new menus for newly educated customers. Bruno Loubet’s Grain Store, for example, is committed to giving vegetables an equal billing to meat.The report notes that some restaurants will find it difficult to move towards a more diverse menu and still be successful, especially those based on selling steak or chicken and considered a treat by consumers. Food choices are deeply embedded within habit, culture and tradition and only 2% of the UK population is vegetarian. The report concludes that there is “considerable commercial and practical inertia, which means that it is not easy to change the supply and sale of food”.However, there does seem to be a move among the younger demographic towards eating less meat: 17% of 18- to 24-year-olds surveyed in 2013 by YouGov said they don’t eat any meat. With concerted action from food campaigners, industry and government, the UK could adopt wider protein choices for the benefits of health and environment.