Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice – discuss the film with spoilers Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice is hardly the first critic-proof movie. Michael Bay has spent most of the last decade churning out Transformers films that stink out the more fetid reaches of Rotten Tomatoes yet routinely zoom past $1bn at the box office. And none of the Twilight movies managed better than middling reviews, yet the vampire romance saga earned more than $3.3bn worldwide over its four-year, five-movie run.Yet something strange has happened with Zack Snyder’s latest superhero smackdown: the more scorn and derision professional reviewers pour on the Warner Bros movie – and there has been plenty of both – the more audiences are determined to see it. Critics have even been accused of taking bribes from rival studio Marvel to give the dark knight and caped crusader a good kicking, so convinced are some filmgoers that the movie cannot possibly be a load of old tosh.cass || bvs was lit (@ahfflecks)when bvs is considered the best comic book movie of all time but the critics start coming in with their marvel bias pic.twitter.com/hc55211fQ2March 23, 2016Martha (@devincf)Just watched a video where a guy says EW, owned by Warner Bros, are paid Marvel shills.March 23, 2016GeekVerse Podcast (@GeekVerseCast)I have yet to see Batman V Superman but this critics were bias or paid to write bad reviews.....cmon guys. Like cmon.March 23, 2016Might this be the first major fan v critics battle of the decade? If so, there’s little doubt that filmgoers have kicked reviewers’ supposedly gilded rear ends. Batman v Superman opened to a spectacular $424.1m (£299m) worldwide last weekend, including a staggering $170.1m in North America, the world’s largest box office. That’s the fourth biggest debut of globally, and the sixth biggest in the US and Canada. It also grossed more money at cinemas than Joss Whedon’s 2010 Marvel film The Avengers did from its first weekend. (That superhero team-up went on to take $1.5bn globally, at the time the third-highest haul ever.)Stars of forthcoming Warner Bros films based on the DC Comics back catalogue have even begun mocking critics. Jason Momoa, who will play Aquaman in a standalone film in 2018 and popped up in a five-second cameo in Batman v Superman, reposted a Ben Affleck meme on Instagram and suggested reviewers were “hypocritical” for writing about the movie when they were not actors or comic-book acolytes. Ray Fisher, whose solo Cyborg movie is set for 2020, posted another Batfleck meme on Instagram that asked: “How many good critics are left?”The trade industry bible Variety joined in with an article that pondered whether poor critical notices were redundant in the era of “declining newspaper and magazine subscriptions” when “many newspapers have already outsourced their reviews to wire services”. Might the same anti-establishment attitude that is encouraging so many Americans to consider voting for Donald Trump also be fuelling resentment towards the views of the critical hoi polloi, the magazine wondered.Comments from Warner Bros were even more worrying. “It doesn’t take itself seriously,” said the studio’s distribution chief Jeff Goldstein of Batman v Superman. “It’s just an enjoyable afternoon at the movies.” As if the level of joy a particular film generates was unrelated to its cinematic excellence.But there’s a problem with this vision of critics as detached, overpaid cynics – or Marvel shills – who are determined to beat the fun out of filmgoing. These same reviewers praised Star Wars: The Force Awakens to the heavens in December and tore Fantastic Four to strips in September. On those occasions, filmgoers largely agreed with their professional counterparts. In fact, nine out of 10 of the highest-grossing movies at the global box office in 2015 scored a “fresh” rating of 60% or above on Rotten Tomatoes, figures that dispute the idea of a major disconnect between reviewers and filmgoers.Wonder Woman reborn: how she stole limelight from Batman and Superman Critics have arguably become more wary of shooting down popular fare over the last few years, perhaps because studios are making movies that attract a kind of cult fandom that’s hard to argue with. Batman v Superman may be a case in point, though the CinemaScore service suggests opening-night audiences gave Snyder’s movie only a “B” rating (compared with an “A” for The Force Awakens). The movie’s box office may drop off dramatically in its second weekend – something similar happened last year to the critically lampooned Fifty Shades of Grey – as middling word of mouth hits home.In the meantime, those convinced reviewers should keep their stinkin’ thoughts to themselves ought to be careful what they wish for. Prior to the Rotten Tomatoes era, Hollywood treated comic book movies as money-making fodder that fans would lap up as long as any old A-list actor could be persuaded to dress up in a bit of spandex. If it turns out that we’re heading back to the dreaded era of Sylvester Stallone’s helmet-less Judge Dredd, George Clooney as Batman and Alec Baldwin as the Shadow, fans of Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice may end up wishing this is one battle they had never won.