With unpredictable weather extremes part of our future, preparing for the unexpected (and a lot of rain in winter) is just sensible practice nowadays. Likewise, a more resilient form of gardening saves a lot of time, sweat and tears in the long run. But as a poultry keeper I wasn’t expecting, or indeed initially equipped for, the bird flu (aka avian influenza) lockdown that came into place on December 6.I’m not alone. There has been a lot of confusion among chicken keepers from around the UK. This has only increased since February 28 when, as long as you don’t live in a designated high risk area of England, as shown on Defra’s map, poultry keepers can let chickens out to free range again, as long the birds are in a fenced area and they are “taking reasonable precautions against avian flu” - otherwise known as biosecurity measures. In the case of Wales this includes filling out a self-assessment form.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Debris netting, seen here around Kim Stoddart’s chicken run, is a good way to keep wild birds out. Photograph: Kim StoddartThese biosecurity measures will be in force until the end of April at least. Like a lot of very small scale chicken keepers, I didn’t know what biosecurity even meant, let alone what to do. As a mainly visual learner (I’m better at doing and not great at following written instructions), I had to go and see first-hand what steps others had taken before I could work out what to do myself.Confused yet? Don’t worry; it’s actually not that painful when you get your head around it. Avian influenza is a serious and real threat, with poultry pundits suggesting biosecurity of this kind is likely to be a regular occurrence at this time of year around the time of wild bird migration and the risk of infection associated with it. So if you keep, or have a hankering to keep chickens, ducks or any form of poultry in the future, here are just some of the things I recommend you bear in mind - now and for the future:Be prepared for a lockdownLockdown means you have to keep your birds contained in a building, polytunnel or micro-netted enclosure that is proofed against wild birds and their faeces.Your best bet is to build or convert an enclosure that can be used for this purpose. Size matters, as far as I’m concerned, because chickens used to ranging freely in your garden will not be happy or healthy when suddenly confined to a small space. An enclosure built using posts and chicken wire can easily be converted to wild-bird-free status through the addition of scaffolding (debris) netting on top and at the sides. It’s easy to attach and seems to be pretty hard wearing, also it can be bought cheaply off eBay. It’s also useful when (as now) most bird owners are able to let their chickens out but have to try to keep the wild birds away from the area. Housing water at the back of the covered enclosure (in a hen house even) helps in this regard and means the poultry can be fed inside safely. And in the meantime, get biosecurity measures in place ...As a wildlife lover, the idea of trying to keep robins, blackbirds and the like away entirely was utterly alien to me. Instead, I’ve plumped for making the area my chickens range in as unattractive to wild birds as possible, while making other areas of my garden much more desirable instead. So I’ve hung up bird feeders elsewhere (far, far away) and cut back foliage and trees around where the poultry roam, making sure there’s no standing water or chicken food left on the ground to draw them in. I’ve also hung some old CDs up in an attempt to deter them from that area. It does seem to be working and is a rather fitting use of some of the cheesy rave CDs I found at the bottom of a cupboard recently.... And get health and hygiene rightThere are other recommended measures besides; cleaning out your poultry coop on a regular basis (which is just good practice anyway), creating a boot dip, disinfecting footwear before entering the chicken zone and also keeping visitors away, which at this time of year isn’t really an issue. Garden chicken party anyone? Not really…The Welsh Assembly Government also recommends regular patrolling of the area to keep wild birds at bay. At first I imagined they meant a) I’d have to buy a special cat outfit and b) they were expecting me to spend the next 6 weeks walking up and down my garden scaring off the birds… Having spoken to them directly to clarify it seems common sense (and being seen to do the right thing) thankfully prevails. You can find out more including advice and suggestions from the British Hen Welfare Trust and the Soil Association here.Kim Stoddart’s new resilient gardener course and the social enterprise/autism care farm it supports launches in April. 