Extreme Wales With Richard Parks 7.30pm, BBC2Following a 13-year rugby union career cut short by injury, Richard Parks’s debut as an extreme sportsman possibly came later than many of his fellow endurance athletes. Having shown considerable mettle in climbing the highest mountains of seven continents in seven months, Parks tackles tasks closer to home for this new series, starting with cycling from the Brecon Beacons to the summit of Snowdon. Mark Gibbings-JonesDamilola, Our Loved Boy 8.30pm, BBC1At the close of this true-life drama, there’s a shocking statistic: 204 London teenagers have died from knife crime in the 16 years since 10-year-old Damilola Taylor’s death. Aiming to humanise such stats, this soulful film follows his family’s fight for justice, and father Richard’s (Babou Ceesay) attempts to prevent more youth violence. As he pointedly tells some young hoodies: “You think you are men, but you’re just small boys.” Heartbreaking. Ali CatterallDark Angel 9pm, ITVThe two-parter detailing the life of Victorian-era poisoner Mary Ann Cotton (Joanne Froggatt) concludes with a feature-length offering. We re-meet creepy Cotton as the man she sees as key to a better life, James Robinson, expresses doubts over the idea of remarrying so soon after the demise of his first wife. Distressing deaths follow – as indeed they do throughout a study of a serial killer that is inevitably downbeat but compelling, too. Jonathan WrightRich Hall’s Presidential Grudge Match 9pm, BBC4An exhaustingly impressive deconstruction of the US elections’ tacky absurdity. Hall has a scything gag about everyone from George Washington to Donald Trump, as he lays out the history of attack ads, fatal slip-ups (Michael Dukakis is interviewed) and huge candidate egos. For all but the most learned US politics student, it’s full of insight. Too full, maybe: it boasts an epic 90-minute running time. Jack SealeThe Victorian Slum 8pm, BBC2Michael Mosley’s excellent social history lesson comes to a close. The slum-dwellers are shocked at photos of the “Spitalfields Nippers”, tiny children who were malnourished and sent out to work. As the men cast their votes and the women learn about the start of the suffragette movement, the slums are cleared, with the poor given a measly guinea to relocate. Social change comes with the move into the 20th century, but what lessons are learned? Hannah VerdierTrollied 9pm, Sky1A sixth series for the supermarket comedy which, although neither original nor overly ambitious, manages to trundle along nicely with a gentle brand of laughs and a smattering of familiar faces. The new Valco area manager is announced, but Gavin isn’t sure about management’s decision. Elsewhere, Margaret is hooked on scratchcards and overfamiliar sales rep Duncan Trench (Rufus Hound) arrives in Warrington with big business cards and an even bigger ego. Hannah J DaviesTeachers 11pm, Comedy CentralA gang of female teachers hit on dads, chastise kids for making them look fat in drawings and generally behave inappropriately while moulding young minds in this new web-to-TV US comedy. In the first episode of a double bill, the teachers launch an anti-bullying campaign that ends in Deb leading a militia and attacking her former tormentor (Alison Brie of Community), while the second involves a disastrous picture day. Fans of Broad City will enjoy its deadpan style. Grace RahmanFilm choiceGone Too Far!, (Destiny Ekaragha, 2013), 2.05am, Film4Adapted from Bola Agbaje’s play, Destiny Ekaragha’s low-budget south London-set debut is a lively, likable treat. Malachi Kirby is Peckham lad Yemi, who is greatly put out by the arrival of his charismatic big brother Iku (OC Ukeje) from Nigeria. Sibling rivalry merges with broader societal divisions in a funny, perceptive comedy. Paul HowlettLive sportFA Cup Football: Southport v Fleetwood TownCoverage of a first-round Fylde coast derby from Haig Avenue as the journey to Wembley gets under way.7pm, BT Sport 1NFL: Seattle Seahawks v Buffalo BillsCoverage of the game at CenturyLink Field in Seattle.1.15am, Sky Sports 1NBA: Golden State Warriors v New Orleans PelicansCoverage from the Oracle Arena.3.30am, BT Sport 1