The FoodSaver Automated Vacuum Sealer (£149.99, Lakeland) is an air compressor and heat sealing bar. Air passed through a thermoplastic bag creates an extraction vacuum around its contents, before the bag is welded airtight.Why? It’s a fun way to suffocate your food!Well?Despite the superheroic name, FoodSaver is a machine that essentially puts food to sleep. Which isn’t to say vacuum sealing doesn’t have near-mythic qualities: food can be stored up to five times longer than usual, and takes up less space doing it. Apparently, an oxygen-deprived lamb chop can keep for three years in the freezer. The device has just one instruction: “Fill bag and insert into machine.” That’s kinda two, but whevs. Obviously, I don’t have three years to test its extravagant claims. (“Let’s all meet up in the year 2020 and check on my lamb chop” sounds like a second-tier Pulp lyric.) But let’s try it. I feed ingredients into the device’s front slot – the machine grabs the bags with a sadistic hunger. As air is extracted, the bags crumple. Moisture draws in rivulets up their textured runnels. There’s something vampiric to it, albeit with the sexiness extracted. This plastic-heavy process can’t be environmentally friendly, as I’ve heard nature abhors a vacuum. But it’s quick, and the device’s footprint relatively small.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rhik Sammader with a FoodSaver Vacuum Sealer. Photograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianAesthetically, it’s a tougher sell. It looks like a fax machine. Or printer. Officeware, anyway. You could put this in a copper-accented country kitchen in the same way you could put a bonnet on a toad, but it’ll look odd. Strangely, I like it. It reminds me of every office job I’ve done; specifically the point at which a senior figure such as a CEO or editor inevitably has to ask the lowest-paid person in the room: “Do you know how to change printer toner? It was jammed and I opened a drawer and now it’s only printing sideways.” I love those moments. Anyway, is FoodSaver useful enough? Probably, for people who plan lunches two years in advance. I’m not sure a cryogenic dormitory of bagged and tagged meals is for me – it’s kinda like food, with the spontaneity sucked away.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The FoodSaver can also keep valuables dry. Photograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianRedeeming features?The booklet suggests vacuum sealing to keep camping valuables dry, which is ingenious. (Also, what else can it do? What happens if you vacuum pack bubble wrap? #BlowingMyOwnMind)Counter, drawer, back of the cupboard?Stationery cupboard, I guess? Check with Sharon in facilities and CC me, please. 3/5