On the day I meet Teyonah Parris to talk about her role in Spike Lee’s new movie, Chi-Raq, which portrays Chicago as a war zone, uptown Manhattan is doing a pretty good impression of one itself. Five blocks of Fifth Avenue are on police lockdown. After three nights of protests, demonstrations have pushed up from Union Square through Midtown before reaching Trump Tower. Thousands of demonstrators are chanting “Not our president!” “New York hates Trump!” and “Hands too small to build a wall!” to a row of visored police officers bearing assault rifles. Dump trucks brimming with sand line two blocks in case of explosive attacks.“I am devastated,” says Parris of the election result, sitting in the back garden of the Chaiwali restaurant, a bohemian hangout in Harlem serving Indian teas. She has just got back to New York from South Carolina, her home state, where she voted. “I saw so much red on that map, and felt just overwhelmingly depleted,” she says.Chi-Raq review: Spike Lee's urgent, angry – and very sexy – midlife masterpiece With a kilowatt smile that seems to add another foot to her height on screen, Parris is an effervescent smart-cookie. A graduate of Juilliard, she had appeared in a handful of TV and film roles – most notably as Don Draper’s secretary in Mad Men – when her turn in the Sundance breakout Dear White People caught Spike Lee’s eye. He took her out to lunch, and a few days later emailed her a script, with a note that said: “Read this.”“That’s all it said,” she recalls. She found herself flipping through pages of dialogue, all in rhyming couplets, spoken by characters she recognised from Aristophanes’s 411BC comedy Lysistrata, which she had worked on at Juilliard. “I was going: ‘What is going on? This is Spike Lee, right?’”When it was released in the US earlier this year, Chi-Raq was seen by critics as a sexy, brash, bawdy return to form for the film-maker. It transplants the action of Aristophanes’s play to the south side of modern-day Chicago, where Lysistrata (Parris), distressed by escalating gang violence, hatches a plan: all the women in the community will withhold sex from their menfolk until the killing stops. “No peace, no piece,” they chant. It’s a breakout role for Parris, staring down the camera, swinging her derriere like Foxy Brown, a bombshell in camouflage-print hotpants, whose exercise in education brings the ’hood to its knees.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Parris in Chi-Raq. Photograph: Parrish Lewis“She almost felt like a superhero to me,” says the 29-year-old, whose South Carolina manners couldn’t be more different from her Lysistrata’s street sass. For the film’s climactic battle between Lysistrata and her boyfriend, staged on a big double bed, Parris’s outfit consisted of little more than a braided rope. “I’ve never been that scantily clad in any of the work I’ve done,” she admits. (She even found herself asking the film’s wardrobe designer, Ruth Carter, to help out: “‘Ruth, you know, you could add a little bit more fabric here and there …’”)“Lysistrata is a woman who navigates the world very differently to me,” she says. “And she’s comfortable with that, and she’s comfortable using everything – not just her body – to help effect change. But she had to put together a plan. She’s very smart, and she comes from an inner-city and doesn’t look like what we typically imagine the leader of a movement to look like. So it was amazing to tell her story, and to be so bold and aggressive.”The film’s heavy dose of sexual realpolitik renders all the more startling an incident that occurred during shooting, when Parris, having tea at Chicago’s Ritz with friends, was approached by an elderly white man who, referring to her hair, asked: “Is that yours or an add-on?”“Sir, that’s rude,” she replied and turned to resume her conversation.“I told the manager he should have the waitresses wear that hair because it’s stimulating,” said the man.“Excuse me?”“I’m saying I like it.”“That’s all you had to say. You like it.”She turned back to her friends once more only to then feel the man reaching out to grab her hair. “It’s stimulating!” he insisted, his fortysomething daughter now clearly uncomfortable “C’mon, Dad!”After tweeting about the incident, she was shocked by the backlash it provoked. “I think the shocking part is it happens all the time,” she says. “That’s not an isolated incident for me. When you get frustrated, you just seem like an angry black person, and they’re standing there offended that you’re offended that they felt that they could come into your personal space. It’s frustrating on so many levels.”Growing up in a house with two brothers, she was “definitely the princess of the house. Bossy. Big ham.” A tomboy who played softball and wrestled with her brothers, she also loved beauty pageants, entering one aged eight. “When they asked: ‘What do you want to be when you grow up?’ I said: ‘I want to be a model and an actress.’ They said: ‘Why?’ I said: ‘Because I can look good and get paid to do it.’ That’s the kind of kid I was.”Her dad, an electrician at a nuclear plant, drove her up the coast to New York to audition for multiple schools, reaching Juilliard in a snowstorm. Graduating from the prestigious acting academy four years later, she landed a small role in James L Brooks’s How Do You Know, and appeared on Broadway in John Guare’s play, A Free Man of Color, with Jeffrey Wright and Mos Def. “As soon as the last curtain call was over, I flew to LA. I went for three months to get away from the New York cold. I was going for three months. I wanted to go to LA and see what that would be, book a show real quick. You know. Me and these big ideas.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   As Dawn Chambers in Mad Men. Photograph: AMCNothing happened for a year – no call-backs, no work, nothing. Staying with relatives in South Central, she shared a room with her 13-year-old cousin, sleeping on a bunk-bed. She didn’t even have the money to return to New York.“It was miserable,” she recalls. “But I used that time. What I ended up doing was really connecting to who I was as a person, outside of this industry. A sense of release is what that time ended up turning into. And as soon as I let it all go, Mad Men came along.”She took the role as Don Draper’s secretary, Dawn Chambers, thinking it was a day’s work. They had her back. And again. “Once I realised who she was, maybe the third time they had me come back, I was like: ‘Oh, OK. This is a really important character here.’ Then being able to grow with the show, and be a part of the fabric of that world, was really something. What that character meant to that show, being the first African-American to integrate the workplace, that was interesting; and it was exciting to play that woman, to be able to tell her story.”Black films matter – how African American cinema fought back against Hollywood Returning to New York a few months ago from shooting Survivor’s Remorse for Starz in Atlanta, she found her possessions scattered to the four winds: some of it still in storage in LA, some of it still in South Carolina. During her trip there to vote, her dad asked her if he could send her stuff to her. She told him: “‘No! You have the family house, put it in the attic. You have to keep baby pictures, Dad. It’s an unwritten rule that it stays in the family house.’ He’s like, ‘Well, just sort through it so I can get it organised.’”She spent a day sorting through her stuff in the attic. “I’m looking through old things of mine, and there was this binder from when I was 14 years old. It is essentially a dream board. It is a school binder that I had put magazine clippings on. It said: ‘TV actress, fame, a picture of Halle Berry, a picture of Christina Aguilera.’ I was obsessed with both of them. This was on Tuesday when I went home. I saw this, and I was almost brought to tears because 14-year-old me saw this for myself. Saw being able to pursue this dream. For it to happen, I’m just floored and so grateful.”• Chi-Raq is released in the UK on 2 December