During the floods of last December, when the River Lune rose higher than at any point in living memory, Lancaster had no power for three days. There was no internet and no newspapers. The only source of information was the local radio station The Bay, which managed to keep transmitting after its staff carried equipment upstairs from a flooded studio.The damage is still visible. Dozens of shops, restaurants, pubs and clubs remain closed. Citizens are despondent about how long the clean-up will take, and what such a mess does to a town still struggling after the last recession. There is also muttering about how things would have turned out if a Tory shire had experienced similar flooding. But that’s not the only thing fuelling resentment.Last November, just as it started raining, Lancashire County Council was told it had to find £65m of cuts over the next two financial years – and £200m by 2020. Alongside cuts to rural bus services and the closure of 40 libraries, the council announced that, by the end of this month, they were going to close five museums, including the Judges’ Lodgings, the city’s oldest townhouse. The council said it would also have to withdraw funding from other museums, including Lancaster Castle, the City Museum, the Cottage Museum and the Maritime Museum. If these don’t start to pay their way they face closure, possibly by the end of 2016.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A shop in Lancaster city centre. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianThis is particularly bad news for a city that, just over a year ago, spent thousands on developing a new brand identity: “Small city, big story.” Everyone jokes now that it will have to be rebranded: “Small city, no story.” But the laughter is bitter. Heritage is a crucial part of the local economy – and local pride.  I can’t help feeling that if we were in the Home Counties, this wouldn’t be happeningCat Smith, Labour MP for Lancaster and Fleetwood I can speak personally about that pride. Lancaster is my home town. When I visited recently, it was depressing to see familiar and lovely streets boarded up, scattered with flood detritus. But the thing that most shook me was the realisation that Lancaster now stood to lose so much more. True, I may only have been in these museums a few times when I was growing up, but they were always touchstones. I knew Lancaster was a quiet northern town with a manufacturing base in decline, and whose nightlife was never going to be as exciting as nearby Madchester. Yet people from this place had gone out and taken on the world. They had done things that mattered – and left behind treasures to prove it. I was inspired. And now I worry the next generation won’t be.Ian Martin, one of the writers on The Thick of It, lives in Lancaster. He told me locals were presented with a choice between saving essential services for disabled children or a museum. “And of course, if you say want to protect the museum, you look like a wanker.” But he adds: “It isn’t that simple.” The government insists that closing the museums is the council’s decision. Yet really, councillors’ hands are tied. Lancashire County Council’s museum budget was £1.2m per annum – which it hoped to slash to just under £100,000. To put that into perspective, London’s Victoria and Albert received £37m from the government last year, while the Garden Bridge over the Thames is expected to cost the taxpayer £60m. And Crossrail2 will swallow billions. Enough money to coat all the museums in Lancaster in gold. “I call it the devolution of blame,” says local Labour MP Cat Smith, “where the blame is devolved to the north of England – but the power and resources aren’t. I can’t help feeling that if we were in the Home Counties, this wouldn’t be happening. Or thinking that if your building’s not in London, the government isn’t interested.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   View from the Judges’ Lodgings. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianYou might think Lancaster doesn’t matter much to you. But this may be because you don’t know enough about it. Its Norman castle, for instance, was the sight of the infamous Pendle Witch trials in 1612, and the place where nine of the accused were executed. It became known, in fact, as Hanging Town, since more people were executed on Gallows Hill than anywhere else in Britain outside London. The judges stayed in the now threatened Judges’ Lodgings, which looks right out over the place of execution. By the start of the 19th century, Lancaster had turned itself into the fourth largest slave port in the country. It played a crucial role in this ugly global trade (the horrors are well recorded in the Maritime Museum) and started to generate serious wealth, building up a considerable manufacturing base. Gillow’s furniture was made in Lancaster workshops for 200 years with exquisite craftsmanship. Some pieces are worth hundreds of thousands – and the Judges’ Lodgings has the world’s finest collection.Or did have. There’s considerable confusion about the best tense to use when referring to Lancaster’s museums. The Maritime, although not in the county council’s list of those that were certain to close, has not reopened since it was damaged in the floods. Staff at the Judges’ Lodgings, meanwhile, have only just found out that they will not in fact be permanently closing their doors at the end of this month – but will remain open until 30 September, to allow time “for other interested parties to come forward”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jason Wood, left, and David Redmore are hoping to unearth Roman remains. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianIt’s a mess – and one compounded by the question of what you do with a world-class collection after you’ve shut a museum down. In their panic to make cuts, councillors may have seen closures as a relatively straightforward option – but they’ve been quickly disabused of that notion. I was originally told that the collection at the Judges’ Lodgings would be stored “on site”, that the council had “no intention to sell off the collections” (in spite of rumours of circling antique dealers), and that £500,000 would be put towards working out how to keep the collections secure. Storm Desmond: Lancaster's small businesses face 'zombie apocalypse' It sounded like it was going to cost almost as much to keep the museums closed as open – and then there’s the fact that many of the pieces in the Lodgings were given on the express understanding that they would be displayed to the public. At least now there will be a few months’ grace to sort out the tangle, and there’s even hope the museums might survive. A Friends of the Judges’ Lodgings group has quickly formed under David Redmore, a local landscape consultant.Redmore is putting up a fight because he believes Lancaster is actually on the cusp of something remarkable. One of the cruel ironies about the potential closure of the castle is the fact that it has only been open to the public for a few years. It was still a working prison as recently as 2012. When it was finally opened up, Redmore was involved in a project called Beyond the Castle, looking at ways to form a historic quarter for Lancaster.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Graffiti on a wall. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianBehind the castle walls and next to the railway station, there is a large greenfield site, believed by some to contain Roman remains, not least because a bathhouse was found nearby in the 1960s. During Beyond the Castle, Jason Wood, a heritage consultant, carried out some exploratory digs that led him to believe there’s a huge fourth-century fort there, as well as at least one large house and several smaller dwellings. “Lancaster is a more important place than we ever imagined,” he says. I walked around the site, wondering if this had the potential to be a huge archeological tourist attraction in its own right. Wood has little doubt. “We’re looking at something that can rival anything in Chester or York,” he says. “If anyone can be bothered to dig it up. And if only there were museums to store the stuff in.”This article was amended on 1 April 2016. An earlier version said the Victoria & Albert received a £6m bonus from the government on top of its usual budget.