I’ve not had much sympathy with all the talk of British sovereignty and tradition floating around of late. As a young, progressive woman (and a migrant to boot), most of the stuff that’s deemed classically British seems dull at best, alienating and racist at double worst. Yet it was with horror that I read that Cluedo, Britain’s favourite way to make light of homicide from 1944 until whenever Midsomer Murders started to air, is doing away permanently with one of its characters.Are these the 10 worst board games of all time? Mrs White, the chef, maid and all-round keeper of Tudor Mansion, is no longer a suspect in the ghoulish perpetual resurrection and slaying cycle of poor Dr Black. Instead, the game has introduced Dr Orchid, Dr Black’s adopted daughter. A brilliant scientist in her own right, Cluedo lore has it that she was mostly raised by Mrs White, giving her replacement of the character a seriously Shakespearean vibe.This is one of many modernising moves Hasbro has made over the years to make the game more easy to relate to. Professor Plum, for example, has been a video game designer in some editions, though it seems unwise to remind children playing a board game that video games exist. The original lead pipe tokens were even replaced when it was discovered they contained real lead. It’s political correctness gone mad! What’s a little poisoning between friends/fellow suspects?If board games must modernise (and apparently they must, if only to appease social media), it’s important that they stay within the realm of likelihood. Dr Orchid, who is a woman of colour working as a doctor, is sure to catch Nigel Farage’s eye but is otherwise an acceptable and realistic upgrade. But what about other bastions of Traditional English Values?Monopoly      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Rather than spending time in jail, each character must periodically do The Weekly Tesco Shop.’ Photograph: Alex Wong/Getty ImagesGone are the days when a dog could own property in London. Those baby boomer dogs with their Mayfair kennels may talk a good game about saving their kibble and bones but realistically, the market is impossible for young pups to break into. An updated board would surely feature dilapidated rental properties in Walthamstow which the dog is forced to share with the thimble and the iron (and you just know that the thimble leaves their dishes in the sink).Rather than spending time in jail, each character must periodically do The Weekly Tesco Shop, which takes them out of commission for at least a turn. Also, I’ve lived in London for four years and have yet to be invited to take part in any beauty contests, let alone come second in one. I refuse to believe this is a value judgment about me, so that card has to go.Trivial Pursuit       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Military fire crews play Trivial Pursuit at the Territorial Army centre in London. Photograph: David Sillitoe for the GuardianTriv has long been a battleground for generational divides, with each age group believing their edition to be superior. My immediate family includes boomers, Gen X-ers and me, a lowly Y, and we solved this problem by mixing cards from our various copies together to even up the playing field. As a brief aside, I don’t remember my family every actually buying new editions and am thus forced to conclude that the game reproduces in a manner akin to a single-celled organism, evolving slightly over time.The game must now surely embrace celebrity culture – just replace the Arts & Literature category and be done with it. I fully expect to one day read a card asking me to match Taylor Swift’s albums to the ex-boyfriends that inspired them (a question that, for the record, I could smash out of the park). After all, board games apparently must hold, as ‘twere, the mirror up to nature.Snap      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Cultura/RexThis will no longer be a card game but a competition to comment the quickest on an article despite only reading the headline.Mouse Trap       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Ideal Toy CompanyShall now be known as Mouse Trap & Release, as a nod to Peta.Snakes & Ladders       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Jonathan Hordle/Rex/ShutterstockNot long for this world, to be replaced by Upvotes & Downvotes and the prize is your self-esteem.Connect Four       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: PR company handoutDestined to become a dating app for the polyamorous.Hungry, Hungry Hippos       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Martin Lee/Rex/ShutterstockOnly this can remain untouched, for while human needs may change, the biological needs of hippopotamuses are eternal.Our favourite games may be evolving with the times but have faith. Though Cluedo have seen fit to eliminate Mrs White, Colonel Mustard – the hunter and colonial imperialist – remains. For what would Britain be without old white men banging on about the good old days? Perish the thought.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cluedo’s cast (from top left clockwise): Professor Plum, Dr Orchid, Rev Green, Miss Scarlett, Colonel Mustard and Miss Peacock. Photograph: Hasbro/PA