There is nothing accidental in a good poem. Those at the 25th Forward prizes on Tuesday could not ignore the hungry, concentrated listening that filled the Royal Festival Hall. Vahni Capildeo was about to read from her collection, Measures of Expatriation.Trinidadian poet Vahni Capildeo wins 2016 Forward prize for poetry Now, a crude summary might declare this a book about exile and migration. Capildeo is from Trinidad, raised in a patriarchal society in the empire’s aftermath: if anyone has a right to the voice of “the migrant”, it would be her. And then she spoke, as if addressing an invisible hawk. “Come here, here, here: / if it’s a tree you’d sulk in, I am pine; / if earth, I’m risen terracotta; / if it’s all to air you’d turn, turn to me.”She told us the idea for her poem, “Handfast”, was inspired by a hunting glove belonging to Henry VIII, that most dominant of English kings. Hawks are Ted Hughes territory. A glove? No, Capildeo, winner of the best collection prize, was throwing down a gauntlet.She is, like the other poets honoured at this year’s Forward prizes – Tiphanie Yanique, Sasha Dugdale – “diverse” in the sense that she is not a white man with a senior post in academia or publishing. But to define these voices in this way seems crass. Pin them down at your peril.When I founded the Forward prizes in 1992, it was perfectly standard for anthologies of contemporary poetry to contain four times as many men than women – all, or almost all of them, white.This year, I reread the 25 Forward books of poetry, seeking from 1,600 poems just 100 for an anthology to mark our 25th anniversary, 100 Prized Poems (Faber). I was looking for poems that felt fresh, that gave the “feeling of excitement and sense of fulfilment” that TS Eliot declared characteristic of the best contemporary poetry. I included works that weren’t by the winners or “big” names, keeping an eye on readers new to poetry, as well as those steeped in it. Only when I counted did I realise that the book has nearly as many women as men speaking memorably and musically of the great human subjects: love, loss, wonder.