‘I wanted to get in while it was still possible to parody some of the stuff going on,” says the anonymous founder of hyperlocal satirical blog the Daily Margz. “To be honest, I am barely staying ahead of reality.”Poking fun at the emerging cultural hub and hipster magnet of Margate, as well as the London-centric media’s obsession with it, the Daily Margz provides a witty and surreal take on the significant changes going on in the Kent resort.At this point, we should put up our hands and plead “guilty”. The Guardian has published its fair share of articles heralding the development of Margate (did someone mention Dreamland?), as well as the revival of the Kent coast. We hope our coverage hasn’t perpetuated the worst of the cliches but, regardless, there has been great enjoyment in reading the Daily Margz – so much so that it’s time to share some sarcasm gold with you. It's hard not to poke fun at people who are Columbus-ing the place ​​you’ve lived in for yearsThe Daily Margz “Obviously some change is good,” explains its founder. “But it is hard not to poke fun at people who are Columbus-ing the place you’ve lived in for years – and they take themselves so seriously. It’s such a trust-funded alien invasion that a local estate agent is actually using a UFO on its flyers begging people to sell to Londoners.” What, then, are their tips for the best non-hip places to hang out in town? “Pete’s Fish Factory is our ElBulli,” the Margz guru says. “Although you may get seagull shit on your head while ‘eating in’.”The “insider” adds: “I do also enjoy a pint in The Bull’s Head on busy summer days, as it is the one place hipsters fear to tread. For now. Barnacles offers a happy medium and the Caprice (on Cliff Terrace) is unreconstructed enough for my tastes when it gets late.”Here’s a selection of our favourite posts. To read more visit thedailymargz.tumblr.comBoffins launch Margate newspaper article writing software      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ain’t no fun times when it rains … a woman and child walk the empty beach in Margate, as bad weather swept in during the bank holiday. Photograph: Gareth Fuller/PAOverworked journalists forced to cover the town for glossy magazines and style websites could soon benefit from state-of-the-art article generating software, the Daily Margz has learned. London-based hacks are becoming increasingly stumped when it comes to writing about Margate, with overused nicknames for the town like Shoreditch-on-sea and Dalston-sur-mer no longer making the grade. Recent ham-fisted attempts including Whitechapel-on-the-water and Brixton Market-circa-2011-on-the-Beach have galvanised efforts to come up with an innovative solution. But the new Marggregator app doesn’t just generate new London-centric names for the town. It can also provide opening paragraphs about package holidays, donkeys on the beach, run-down guesthouses and chronic unemployment; and come up with alternatives to the words quirky and vibrant to use when describing the resurgent Old Town’s shops and cafes. An additional monthly subscription charge provides full access to a substantial bank of quotes from Tracey Emin, Wayne Hemingway and assorted placemakers, as well as the lyrics to Chas and Dave’s Down to Margate and another stock image of that stripy hut on the beach. As a final safeguard, a clever inbuilt prompt doesn’t allow a feature to go live unless it includes the sentence “The skies are the loveliest in all of Europe.”Margate cafe fined for using pound symbol      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cafe culture-clash … a greasy spoon in Margate. Photograph: Martin Godwin for the GuardianA long-established Margate cafe has landed itself in hot water with Thanet district council’s new Cultural Enforcement Agency (CEA) after failing to drop the pound signs from its menu. Fred Smudge, owner of the Farina Café on the seafront, has been ordered to pay a £100 fine and stare at a Polpo menu for 10 minutes without blinking. The agency issued the order to drop the symbols when it became apparent that a number of newly arrived creatives were disappointed with the town’s traditional sterling-based price presentation. Inspectors were called to the Farina when a bad case of currency confusion saw recent arrival Binky Flaxflake-Smuggeridge attempt to pay her bill using Brixton Pounds. “It was totes mad,” Binky told the Daily Margz. “If these people really expect us placemakers to use their cafes as thinkspaces they’re really going to have to up their game. Luckily, I can now tweet the council and they’ll send someone down to iron out any problems.” Cafe owner Smudge was less than sympathetic: “She’d already been going on at me about whether all the stuff on the menu was locally sourced,” he complained. “I told her it was all from Booker’s in Broadstairs which is only two miles away, but she had a right go at me.“ As well as confiscating menus displaying pound signs, the CEA has been given powers to enforce the provision of essential cafe staples like soya matcha lattes, pram-parking spaces, and plug sockets for laptops under every single seat. Establishments who refuse to comply with the new laws will have to pay a hefty fine or face a weeklong re-education programme in Dalston. Failure to open an Instagram account is punishable by death.Woman ‘only uses Turner Contemporary to buy greetings cards’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Are we amused? The Duchess Of Cambridge takes in the art at Margate’s Turner Contemporary. Photograph: Getty ImagesA Margate woman has made the shocking admission that she only visits the town’s David Chipperfield-designed art gallery to pick up birthday cards and last-minute gifts. Biddie Gladstone-Small moved to Margate 10 years ago after learning that the £17m cultural attraction was in the pipeline, and was initially delighted at the prospect of seeing world-famous art a short walk from her house on Warwick Road. However, early enthusiasm has gradually made way for indifference.“I quite liked the exhibition with the Smiths karaoke booth and the old gig posters,” Gladstone-Small said. “And I went to a couple of opening nights, but knocked it on the head when they started charging for the wine and scaled back the canapes. “But I do still support the place. It has some really nice cards, and you don’t have to hang around waiting for them to write out a receipt for £2.50 like in some of the Old Town shops. They have OK presents too: seaweed soap from north Wales, prints of the lido where it doesn’t look dirty, that kind of thing.” However, changes to the layout of the gallery have put the Turner Contemporary’s status as the go-to vendor of tasteful greetings cards and last-minute gifts for the middle classes at risk. “Last time I went they’d moved the shop upstairs,” Biddie explained.Seal offers thanks via caffeinated beverages      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Seal the deal? Wildlife on the Kent coast Photograph: Gareth Fuller/PAA seal rescued in Margate harbour has decided to show its gratitude to the townsfolk by integrating into local society and opening a coffee shop. Flipper Clappyhands, a recent arrival in Athelstan Road from Goodwin Sands, is more used to hunting for fish in the North Sea, but is convinced that his transition from semi-aquatic marine mammal to barista should not be too difficult. “These trust fund kids and media graduates seem to be able to make a go of it without any kind of retail experience,” said Clappyhands. “I’ve done a one-day course in Clerkenwell and have already set up a credit account with Prufrock for raw beans, so I’m more experienced than most. I’ll be roasting my beans over a fire made from carefully-curated local driftwood once I’m fully funded on Kickstarter.” Clappyhands will also be calling on his old colleagues to help him with the food side of the business. “The lads have said they’ll help me out with bringing in some fish during the week,” he said. “So, it’ll be herring, cod, mussels and coley most days. If they get lucky then dolphin could be on the menu. And seagull. They’re actually quite nice if you marinade them in brine for a couple of days.”