My father, Victor Lamont, who has died aged 78, was a nurse, Methodist minister and retail visionary who travelled widely supporting craft businesses in the developing world. He touched people everywhere with his humour and enthusiasm for life.Born and brought up in Liverpool, he was the son of George Lamont, a stevedore, and his wife, Dorothy (nee Hughes). Victor had a religious conversion at 15, becoming a pacifist and conscientious objector. He was ordained as a Methodist minister and married Rowena Highfield, whom he met at a Methodist camp, in 1966. She studied photography, and later became a therapist and lecturer in counselling.Victor would say: “If ministers in the church really believe the gospels, then how is it possible to have a boring service?” He took a job running youth programmes funded by the World Council of Churches in Limuru, Kenya. I was six weeks old when my mother and I joined him there. My brother Nick was born in Nairobi. It was a special time for Victor, who loved Africa.We moved in 1973 to Bangalore, where Victor worked with intermediate technology and created batik banners for churches, displaying slogans such as Gandhi’s saying: “To the hungry, God comes in the form of bread.” He took his banners to New York and with the proceeds from sales bought a house back in the UK, in South Petherton, Somerset.With the ethos “trade not aid”, he opened a shop in South Petherton called Global Village Crafts, selling crafts from across the developing world. Profits funded a periodical called Basics that provided health, nutrition and technology information in cartoon form, thus avoiding language issues. The UN took this over, but the retail business grew, and within 20 years had shops throughout the south-west, a flagship on the Fulham Road and shops within Harvey Nichols and Liberty.Victor loved traditional handmade crafts. His shops were infused with the music, scents and materials of the traditional artisan. But he loved the buying trips to Asia and Africa even more. His humour and mix of enthusiasm, humanity and spiritual openness endeared him to his suppliers everywhere.In 1995 he moved back to Nairobi and started the Product Design and Development Centre. In 2002 he moved to Chiang Mai, northern Thailand, from where he worked on craft projects in Iran, Colombia, Morocco, Bangladesh and Afghanistan.He and Rowena divorced in 1998. Victor is survived by his two sons, Nick and me, three granddaughters, Lauren, Isobel and Annie, and a grandson, Joe.