Man, those ethnic minorities – never bloody satisfied, are they? Barely has Hollywood finished insisting that the reason the Academy failed (again) to nominate a single non-white actor for an Oscar was because there were no good black actors in films this year (again), than another “race representation in movies” scandal arrives.I know, I know. Change the flipping record! Look, we all laughed at Chris Rock’s jokes about how racist the movie industry is; we cheered when 12 Years A Slave won the Academy Award two years ago; OK, we probably didn’t watch the Will Smith film Concussion, but still. Isn’t that enough? Aren’t things fixed now?Apparently not. The trailer for the already controversial eponymous biopic of Nina Simone was released last week and, well, “rapturous” would not exactly describe its reception. Even Nina Simone’s ghost made it clear that she wasn’t happy.“I’ll show you what freedom is to me – No Fear… I mean, really, no fear,” the film’s star, Zoe Saldana, tweeted, quoting the eternally quotable late singer. “Cool story but please take Nina’s name out your mouth. For the rest of your life,” Simone’s estate tweeted back at the actor. OK, it wasn’t literally Simone’s ghost, but that is pretty much how I imagine Simone, who once shot a gun at a record executive, would have sounded on Twitter.This film has been wading through controversy for four years now, ever since it was announced that Simone, a proudly and gloriously dark-skinned African American, would be played by Saldana, a lighter-skinned woman of Puerto Rican and Dominican Republic descent. The low growl blasted into full-blown protest last week when it became apparent in the trailer that Saldana’s skin had been darkened and she sported a prosthetic flattened nose. She blacked up, to put it bluntly.What makes the whole thing even more absurd is that the film is about the later stages of Simone’s life. Saldana is 37. I guess Alfre Woodard, Viola Davis, Angela Bassett, Audra McDonald and all the other 40-plus, dark-skinned and grievously underused actors just didn’t answer their phones on the day.Enter stage right: the racesplainers! Director Judd Apatow, who only the week before had been condemning Hollywood’s “institutional racism”, tweeted, in response to critics of Saldana, “I think all actors should only be allowed to play themselves. It is offensive to pretend to be other people.”I love movie people, I really do. One minute they’re telling you that movies can do everything from fixing climate change to stopping sexual abuse, which I think was the intended takeaway message from the Oscars ceremony this year. The next, when you point out specific faults within the industry, suddenly it’s all, “Hey! It’s just a movie! Lighten up!”Hadley Freeman: so the privately educated are the new underclass? Spare me the sob story Still, always good to take race lessons from Apatow, a man who has never given a black actor a major role and whose only interest in black people seems to be his obsessive tweeting about his hatred of Bill Cosby.Yes, actors do pretend to be other people. But darker-skinned actors rarely get the chance to do so, except when casting directors need someone to play a slave or drug dealer – lucky them! Lighter-skinned, even whiter-skinned, actors can play dark-skinned characters, but this is almost never reversed, and it’s this one-way street that angers people. That is why poor Saldana got caught in this particular crossfire: the movie’s producers cast a black actor, but went as light-skinned as they could get away with when portraying a singer who was a major figure in the black pride movement. Only in January it was announced, to remarkably little outrage, that in a forthcoming Sky project, Michael Jackson would be portrayed by that essence of American blackness, Joseph Fiennes. Yet any time it is suggested that a fictional character – James Bond, say, or Hermione in Harry Potter – could be played by a black actor, (white) people act as if Christmas is being cancelled.The real problem, with the Nina Simone film and movies in general, isn’t who’s in front of the camera but who’s behind it. As was recently pointed out, pretty much everyone involved in this movie, from the writer/director, to the makeup artists who darkened Saldana’s skin, to the prosthetics team who moulded her fake nose, is – can you guess? Can you? – white. “An artist’s duty, as far as I’m concerned, is to reflect the times,” Simone once said. On no level does Hollywood reflect the times, but the movies certainly do reflect the industry.