It turns out there is no category for war films told solely through the language of dance. But that never occurred to us as we set about turning a preposterous idea into our first full-length dance film. And Young Men, the film version of our 2015 stage production that explored the theme of war and the bonds that develop between the men consumed by it, feels like the project we have been leading up to for most of our working lives.A decade of daring: Wayne McGregor at the Royal Ballet – in pictures Our mission as artistic directors of BalletBoyz has always been to present the highest quality dance to as many people as possible, and we have tried many things during our unusual working partnership of nearly 30 years, including a number of films and documentaries. We began with BalletBoyz, our original fly-on-the-wall documentary about our lives as classical ballet dancers and, despite our reservations, the name stuck. We have followed up with films based on The Rite of Spring and The Kama Sutra and documentaries shot with the Bolshoi Ballet in Moscow, the Royal Ballet in Havana and Adugna Dance in Addis Ababa.While our competitors were almost all choreographer-led companies, creating evenings of their own work and hiring a company of dancers to perform it, we felt our skill was in inviting choreographers to create work for our company of 10 young men. This has left us frustrated at times, with a feeling of losing our artistic voice, and it has been through film-making that we have been able to retain a sense of creative power.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The horror of the battlefield in Young Men.When we first floated the idea of a group of unknown, untested and, in some cases, untrained dancers there were many who thought we had gone mad. “Student companies will never work,” we were told, but we had faith in our eclectic mix of young men. We believed that as they grew in experience they would gain confidence, but still there was a concern that they weren’t the finished article. Working with choreographer Iván Pérez changed that for good. Iván’s quality of movement had really struck a chord with us; fluent and original, it had a balance and logical integrity that gave it a great deal of freedom. At that time we didn’t realise that a few of our dancers already knew Iván’s work and also knew him as a dancer. It helped forge even stronger ties.In some ways the mix of styles, skills and training within this group of dancers represented the kind of random selection you would get from conscription. Their backgrounds vary from conventional ballet training from an early age to routes into dance through hip‑hop and ballroom dancing and a basic inability to sit still. We engaged them in a simple audition process, asking those who would like to be in our company to come and dance for us. We weren’t interested in CVs or training histories or qualifications, looking instead at who in the room caught our attention and who looked like they would fit into our group.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dancing with death in Young Men. Photograph: BalletBoyzFor the stage production we had imagined Young Men as an ambiguous depiction of soldiers and war. The original theme had emerged unexpectedly and only later presented itself to us, and we therefore wanted to remove all explicit references to nationalities and battles and present an abstract evocation of conflict. Audiences would project their thoughts on to the frame that the choreography and dancers built in the same way as projections threw imagery on to the set.Despite having a series of wonderful female dancers in our company from the outset, we have recently become better known as an all-male dance group. This has been true of our theatre output, but war is not just a male domain. We also wanted to acknowledge stories of the tenacity and great courage of women, so we held an audition for female dancers, not knowing exactly what we were looking for, but hoping similarly confident and accomplished performers would force themselves into the cast. We were not disappointed. This new dynamic allowed Iván to create more complex scenes and relationships and further helped avoid any casual slipping into an overtly macho portrayal of heroic and glorious death. Including female dancers helped avoid any casual slipping into an overtly macho portrayal of heroic and glorious death Of course choreography must convey emotion and meaning, but it is nothing without the right score, which is why we introduced Iván to Keaton Henson, who was exploring orchestral worlds to create atmospheric soundscapes. They joined forces in our studio, choreographing and composing side by side, sparking off one another to rapidly build scenes.The conversion from stage to screen was decided more or less on the opening night at Sadler’s Wells. We all felt that there could be another life for the work. Already committed elsewhere, Iván showed great faith in our ability to take the component parts of his choreography and rework them into a film. Character and narrative had to become more central, and to that end we switched the running order, changed casting and added extra material so that we could follow the journeys of particular soldiers.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A scene from Young Men. Photograph: BalletBoyzOne scene that we knew we wanted to expand on was called Lookout and featured the men peering up over the top of the trenches, daring to look the enemy in the eye. This became the anchor for the period of the film, and placed us in the era of the first world war. Everything else then had to fit with that but we made a decision to create our own fictional army with no specific uniform, nation or battle, allowing us to take some liberties with historical accuracy.Shooting for two weeks in Normandy in November 2015, we followed a gruelling schedule, keeping open minds to accommodate changing weather and shifting locations, but throughout the dancers were the solid, reliable backbone of the production. The crew would sometimes only get a glimpse of what a scene entailed before the take, but we knew the dancers would deliver.Young Men looks almost exactly as we hoped it would, and we are delighted it will be shown on Remembrance weekend. So many elements came together in the most fortuitous ways that it has perhaps made us overconfident for the next film, and we are already developing ideas for the follow-up. In the meantime our mission remains unchanged whether on stage or on screen: to get dance out there.• Young Men will be screened on BBC2 at 8.30pm tonight12 November.