I wanted to write about London, a city I moved to 30 years ago, and which keeps changing before my eyes. In the 1980s, Russians were few and far between: who would have believed that so soon they would become the richest and most extravagant of the city’s inhabitants? It’s a theme that fascinates the media; I wanted to try to do it justice with the freedom allowed by fiction.Baileys prize longlists self-published debut and 10 other first novels A Serbian song I like speaks about loving “the Russian way”, Russian being synonymous with measureless, yet doomed, passion. The Russians have written some of the greatest love stories: Eugene Onegin, Anna Karenina, Doctor Zhivago. Out of devotion to their writing I taught myself Russian. So why did I choose The Great Gatsby as a starting point for my tale of Russian love in London?I hadn’t read Fitzgerald’s novel for years but the story, reinforced by the film (the Robert Redford version: I’m a woman of a certain age) stuck in my head for its description of what money can and cannot buy. It haunted me whenever I read about the oligarchs, or walked past their palaces in Kensington and Chelsea. Glossy photographs often showed a man of my generation – a Khrushchev or Brezhnev baby-boomer – next to a woman as beautiful as he was rich. Like me, these men grew up in a lost, vanquished world. I saw a childhood hunger which no amount of money can sate.The theme and story were nestling in my mind, but I procrastinated. In the summer of 2013, I was home alone in the holiday season. My husband and son were trudging across some hillside in Yorkshire, and I watched my compatriot Novac Djokovic on one of his paths to triumph at Wimbledon. I began to feel guilty. Taking advantage of the empty house, I moved to my study and started to type. The words flowed. By the time my family returned the foundations were laid, and within another fortnight all the main elements were in place.Over many more months I refined the text, took on board the comments of my first readers and planed the prose as smooth as I could. The structure remained the same as what I dashed off in those first three weeks.It was unlike anything I had written before. My previous writing experience was eclectic. I have produced heavily researched academic material, published poetry in both my mother tongue and English, done some translations, and written a memoir and a few short stories. Some of this required prolonged, methodical work. The poetry depended on flashes of inspiration. The memoir required me only to describe what I knew. Although the shaping of a life story is in some ways similar to novel writing, I had never written a full-length novel, with its requirement for sustained invention. Producing Gorsky at speed helped. It meant not losing my nerve. The downside of a vivid imagination is that it works equally well at envisaging failure.I know – especially for some Americans – I’ve trodden upon holy ground by reworking what is for them the literary equivalent of the stars and stripes. One American friend told me she’d once written out Gatsby in longhand just to see “how it is done”, while another said that I could only cap my sacrilege by making use of To Kill a Mocking Bird. I started from Gatsby the way a Greek dramatist might have started from the myth of Antigone, but Gorsky is its own novel, with its own voices. It is populated by eastern Europeans adrift from the anchor of socialism, for whom London is like a stepmother, unpredictably generous and cruel, and native Britons who find themselves disorientated in a city awash with foreign money. Its mix of tragedy and comedy owes more to my reading of Chekhov than it does to my shakier knowledge of Fitzgerald.Observer review: Chernobyl Strawberries by Vesna Goldsworthy  Strong plots, compelling themes and interesting settings are more important than some teachers of creative writing want to admit. I’m grateful to Fitzgerald for firing the starting gun for my plotting, while leaving me free to add my own twists and turns and to set my story amid the brittle brilliance of London’s oligarchs – a rus in urbe for our times. Extract It was a piece of business that comes along once in a lifetime. If you are lucky.First there was a year of glamorous parties: an unexpected, undeserved year, unlike anything I had ever experienced. Then it all suddenly stopped and I had to return to what I was before, to a different language and a different place. Gorsky changed my life.I remember his first visit to the shop. You couldn’t fail to notice him, even in a city like London, in which millions are bent on attracting attention. People walk around with exhibitionist swagger, as though starring in their own YouTube clip, he was quietly remarkable: foreign, expensive, somehow still even when he moved, his volume turned down permanently. His melancholy muzzle was equine and aristocratic, and his tailored worsteds so ripely English that at first I thought he could only be Prussian.More about Gorsky“It’s a very clever idea: to update The Great Gatsby by making the bootlegger into a Russian arms-dealing billionaire and transplanting the action from jazz age New York to 21st-century London, a city increasingly shaped by global wealth. And yet the style of Vesna Goldsworthy’s first novel, Gorsky, owes less to F Scott Fitzgerald than it does to one of his contemporaries, at least at the beginning. She circles her subject elegantly, like Ford Madox Ford in The Good Soldier, writing from the slant perspective of a curious, intelligent foreigner only half in love with Englishness.” – review by Benjamin Markovits.Buy the bookGorsky is published by Vintage at £7.99 and is available from the Guardian bookshop at £6.39.