According to Kendra McSweeney: "Drug trafficking is causing an ecological disaster in Central America." McSweeney, a geographer at Ohio State University, is the co-author of a recent report on the little-known phenomenon of "narco-deforestation" that is destroying huge tracts of rainforest that are already under threat from other quarters.Viewed from the air, the tropical forests of Honduras, Guatemala and Nicaragua are scarred with landing strips and roads built illegally by the narco-traffickers for transporting drugs to the US, the leading world market. "These protected ecological zones have become the hub for South American cocaine," according to McSweeney, who stresses that the annual deforestation rate in Honduras more than quadrupled between 2007 and 2011, a boom-period for drug trafficking. In 2011 alone, 183 sq km of forest was destroyed in the east of the country, including in the Río Plátano Biosphere Reserve, an endangered Unesco world heritage site. This was in addition to the pre-existing problem of forest destruction due to illegal logging.The wave of devastation has been moving south down the American continent, as drug crackdowns have taken force in Mexico. This is known as the efecto cucaracha, or cockroach effect, with reference to the survival instinct this creature has of seeking refuge next door as soon as it has been of chased out of one house. In the Laguna del Tigre national park in north-east Guatemala, deforestation has increased by between 5% and 10% in the past seven years. That coincides with the war against drug trafficking launched at the end of 2006 by the former Mexican president Felipe Calderón (2006-2012), with backing from the US.Take the powerful Sinaloa cartel. When it was headed by Joaquin Guzmán, alias El Chapo, before his arrest on 22 February, the Mexican mafia extended its influence in Central America via local gangs. For McSweeney: "Narco-deforestation enables cartels to occupy territory to the detriment of their competitors. If that continues, the entire Mesoamerican [Central American] biological corridor, which stretches from Panama to Mexico, will be affected by tree felling."Worse still, the drug traffickers are laundering their illegal profits by investing in cattle ranches and intensive palm oil production, "even though farming in the protected areas is forbidden", stresses McSweeney, who blames corruption among local government officials and weak public institutions for enabling this to happen.The reserves and national parks in northern Guatemala and north-eastern Nicaragua are suffering similar destruction. "There are too few forest guards, and they are too poorly equipped to deal with the drug traffickers in those remote and very poor regions, which provide ideal conditions for illegal trafficking," according to Matthew Taylor, another of the report's authors, "particularly since the cartels' dirty money is boosting business among land speculators and timber traffickers."The native communities inhabiting these protected regions are the primary victims of these practices. "The Indians are either chased off their land, or recruited by the drug traffickers – voluntarily or by force – to fell the trees or work on their farms," said Taylor. He believes that the fear of reprisals enforces an omertà, or code of silence, among the indigenous peoples and environmental protection agencies.The governments of the Central American countries involved continue to seize drugs, with the help of the US. In October 2013, the Honduran armed forces announced that they had destroyed illegal landing strips in the northern Mosquitia region where the Río Plátano Biosphere Reserve is located.But McSweeney is sceptical: "Such a purely repressive strategy will not solve the issue." During the Mesoamerican Congress on Protected Areas held in Costa Rica last month, she launched an appeal to the regional leaders to rethink the struggle against drug trafficking: it should be tackled as a public health problem, which has a devastating impact on the environment. She is convinced that the future of biodiversity depends on this.This article appeared in Guardian Weekly, which incorporates material from Le Monde