My life changed in an amazingly good way on 14 May. No, it wasn’t the day that marked the final repayment of my student loan – it was the day I married Gail. That’s all relatively normal – I mean, people do get married – but the way we met was a just a little bit different. We were the type of people who meet on the internet – the Twitter part of the internet, to be exact. It’s utterly mind-boggling, and I absolutely love the randomness of the whole damn thing To explain to people who don’t use Twitter how Twitter works is hard enough. How, they always ask, can you say anything meaningful in just 140 characters? To explain how you end up getting married via Twitter is nigh-on impossible. Twitter works in mysterious ways: some make lasting friendships on there; others use it to post pictures of Tony Benn smoking a pipe next to words he never said; and there are those who use it to ask me whether I’d like to write about meeting my bride on Twitter.Earlier this week it was reported how a couple got hitched after they met via the Oxford Street Waterstones Twitter account. If you discount the fact I didn’t run the Oxford Street Waterstones Twitter account and we have different names, our stories are more or less the same. That couple, like Gail and me, met amid the millions of random tweets, Twitter feuds and Stephen Fry being RT’d 73,000 times. It’s utterly mind-boggling, and I absolutely love the randomness of the whole damn thing.The green shoots of our Twitter relationship began in pretty low-key fashion. I originally noticed Gail because she seemed a lovely, genuine person and made me laugh. We also appeared to appreciate one another’s cultural references and spoke a lot about her brute of a cat (who I’m now good mates with). Early on we just chatted – the equivalent of two people saying “hello” every day in the street, or having a natter in the pub, I guess. However, one day I noted on her Twitter feed that she was laid up in bed, feeling ill, so I thought I’d try to cheer her up. We ended up having a long conversation. I think I must have won her round with my charm: the avatar of myself when I was 40lb lighter, 20 years younger and had some hair had nothing to do with it.Then we went to another level by direct messaging one another. (While most tweets are public, DMs can only be read by the person they are addressed to.) This led to phone calls. My goodness – she has a voice! I have a voice! We both have voices!The secret of a happy marriage? Low expectations | Daisy Buchanan Now we come to the “Don’t try this at home” bit of this tale. A meeting was suggested, and she actually agreed to come and see me. Although I’m aware that I’m not a complete and utter weirdo, and thus was utterly at ease with the arrangement, she hadn’t the foggiest. For all she knew I might have had mother’s skeleton done up in a dress, sitting in a rocking chair in the cellar. Then there was the fact I was living in north Wales – beautiful, but let’s face it, the back of beyond. Put it like this – you wouldn’t catch Burt Reynolds and Ned Beatty out and about canoeing around those parts. It’s all a bit “local”.The railway station where I met Gail was the end of the line. So there she was, all dolled up, meeting this bloke she’d met online – who doesn’t even use his own picture on his Twitter account. I cannot put into words how disappointed she was the Likely Lads weren’t stood there on that platform, welcoming her to sunny Snowdonia.Fast forward three years, and Gail and I are standing outside Manchester register office, post-ceremony on a beautiful sunny day, surrounded by family and friends and having absolutely the best day of our lives. All this because I decided to reply to a tweet. If I’d just left it alone and carried on writing daft jokes about whichever politician is making a tool of themselves that day, I wouldn’t be sat here writing this piece. And much more importantly, I wouldn’t have met #TheOne.