Allow me to introduce to you the two newest members of my extended family. They're a pair of baby Amur leopards I picked up late last year for about 15 quid a month, courtesy of the World Wrestling Federation (no, me neither). The small chaps, like many in their declining species, have been having a hard time of it in recent years owing to poaching, forest degradation and climate change in the Russian far east. I would not normally be susceptible to a hard-luck story about furry beasties, but when you witness their plight in a velvety advert on Discovery, the go-to television channel for when you return from an evening sparkled with Jamaica's national embrocation, all sense of proportion flies out of the window.So does your recollection of key events any time after midnight. Presumably, that is why WWF chooses to purchase advertising space after the witching hour. Yet when it informed me a month later that I had sponsored the twins by phoning its 0800 number my surprise turned to joy when I discovered that they were called Henrik and Lubo. Since then, the federation has provided me with regular updates about the boys and they seem to be keeping fine. I also quite like the feeling of sanctimoniousness that comes with the knowledge that you've done your bit to help one of God's other works of creation.Animals and me go back a long way and I bow to no chiel when it comes to concern for the welfare of wild beasties everywhere. Yet I would normally much prefer to donate money to charities that alleviate human suffering. Indeed, I have gently mocked those among us who think that the road to salvation lies in the welfare of animals when children all over the world are being tortured and killed by gangsters such as Assad and his apologists in Beijing and the Kremlin.Britain's national obsession with animals has always left me cold. Indeed, the Scottish media are pursuing a scorched-earth policy in ensuring that every cough, spit and snort of as many species as possible is presented nightly for our edification. Every week, we are presented with a medical bulletin on the health and welfare of Sunshine and Sweetie, the two pandas we've spent £7m renting from the same Chinese government that is assisting in the slaughter of the innocents in Syria. The pandas have only been here for a couple of months but already it looks like the Chinese have sold us, well, a couple of pups.Even by the indolent standards of these largely inert creatures it's clear that this pair are the cast-offs of a breeding programme in the Sichuan province. For Sunshine and Sweetie have thrown so many sickies since they got here that they'll soon be eligible for jobs with North Lanarkshire Council. Edinburgh Zoo is hoping that when the two bears eventually get round to pursuing a carnal relationship, it will all have proved to be worthwhile when a baby panda is produced that will, presumably, be called "wee man". Such, though, has been their lamentable performance so far that Rangers' tax liabilities will be paid in full before we hear the patter of tiny paws in Edinburgh.The penguins, though, are not happy. Apparently, Edinburgh Zoo is called the penguin zoo because it's got stacks of these creatures that, oddly, are named after the kenspeckle chocolate biscuit. Furthermore, in a fit of pique at the attention being lavished on their new neighbours, these revolting creatures have recently begun to defecate on the idiots who are queuing to see the pandas, having shelled out many hard-earned pounds for the privilege. BBC Scotland also told us last week that the penguins were being shipped off to Wales because their swimming pool has sprung a leak. Haud me back.We were even treated last week to the nocturnal exploits of a male rabbit that the Sun insisted was called "Roger". It seems that some cheeky prankster lobbed Roger into a compound full of lady rabbits one evening last week. The tabloid's wildlife team then published a picture of Roger; eyes shut, flat on his back and completely zonked after a conjugal night with the ladies. Perhaps a zookeeper could surreptitiously throw Roger in with Sunshine and Sweetie to remind them of their reproductive responsibilities. Am I missing something here? Has the SNP government, in a bid to meet its 2020 carbon-reduction targets, turned the entire country of Scotland into Yellowstone National Park?I even got a withering stare from a woman in Glasgow city centre last week who wanted me to donate to the RSPCA. I told her I'd already done my animal welfare bit by adopting Henrik and Lubo, but you could tell she thought I was lying. There is a new animal militancy abroad and soon I shall have to start carrying my adoption certificate for Henrik and Lubo in the same way you carry your driving licence to ward off the traffic cops.On two occasions in the last few weeks, I have visited restaurants and noticed that some diners had brought their dogs with them. "It's the dog or me," I wanted to inform the maître d' of each establishment. But I knew in my heart that such an ultimatum would most probably result in my summary ejection. I like dogs and once knew a lovely lady who had two splendid ones hailing from an eastern European background. They were so sleek, good-looking and healthy that they would have got a lumber before closing time in some of Glasgow's more vivid establishments.Even so, the only place for animals in a restaurant is on a plate. Unless, in some evolutionary thrust, they have somehow acquired the knowledge of wiping their bums and brushing their teeth.