A From The Dictionary of the Castilian or Spanish Language, by Sebastián de Covarrubias Horozco, translated by Janet Hendrickson.AIt is so simple to pronounce. It is the first letter man utters on being born. It is pronounced, like the vowels that follow it, by puckering the lips and exhaling. The simplicity of the a is such that its utterance is not denied to the mute, who with the a and the help of their tone, the movement of their hands, feet, eyes, and body make us understand in a moment what the well-spoken could not with many words; the mute, as they walk together, prattle more than magpies. The a is doctrine, way, eternal bliss. The a, repeated three times, declares the mute’s impotence in speech; as for me, mute in what I seek, it means the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, imploring my God to give me His life to finish this work for His glory and for everyone’s use. I know of no one who has taken on this task, carrying it to the end I seek. They called a the letter of health.A B CMeans the first beginnings.ABEJA(Bee)Gathering dew from one flower and the next, the bee makes a liquor sweet as honey, moiling in its cunning honeycombs of wax. It alone among the insects was created for man’s benefit. The bee leads to discourses on its choice in flowers; its craftsmanship making its hexagonal cells; its king’s clemency. The bee is the symbol of the curious, who gather sentences as the bee gathers flowers, making a work smooth and sweet. The bee does not procreate through the coupling of the male and female, and they are no less fertile because of this.ABISMO(Abyss)Infinite congregation of water; the depth of the deepest valleys, where vision fades, gazing from above. ACÁ(Here)Where I am.AGUA(Water)Water swallows the land, quenches fire, rises to the air and alters it and is above the skies themselves. It raises such a multitude of fish; it allows man to travel a great distance in a short time. Water has the virtue of cooling, cleansing, smoothing. It means the Holy Spirit. It means the wisdom of God, which is Christ. It means the peoples. Artificial waters, water of the angels, distilled with aromatic drugs, roses and the rest, orange blossom, jasmine, lemon blossom, myrtle.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Christ is the eagle with sharp vision.’ Photograph: Drew Buckley/REX ShutterstockÁGUILA(Eagle)The eagle kills the deer with marvelous guile: filling its wings with earth, leaping over the deer’s head, the eagle shakes dust in the deer’s eyes, by which it blinds the deer and makes it run, until the deer reaches a cliff, where the eagle lets the it fall; it kills itself or breaks its legs. The eagle snatches the serpent in its talons and lifts it in the air and tears it to pieces, but the serpent coils around the eagle and catches its wings; it does not let the eagle fly; both fall to earth. The eagle lifts the turtle in the air and drops it on a crag. The eagle is not afraid of lightning; when it thunders, the swan hides between the reeds and rushes of the lakes. The eagle means Christ among men, like the eagle, queen among the birds, for the flight by which Christ descended to the innermost part of the Virgin Mary’s heartstrings. Christ is the eagle with sharp vision; He beholds the sun.AIRE(Air)The wind, for being moving air or being caused in air. It would take too long to declare here how and where and from what are created the mist, the dew, the rain, the snow and hail that falls, the thunder and lightning, the comets, firebrands, exhalations, vortices, and yawnings of the sky.AJO(Garlic)Garlic is so well-known one need not describe it. Garlic is not a food for courtly people. The leopard abhors the smell of it; if the leopard’s lair is scoured with garlic, the leopard forsakes it. Garlic rubbed against the trunk of any tree keeps caterpillars away.ALBA(Dawn)What is that? Nothing but the dawn as it walks among the cabbages.ALGO(Something)We ask, “Is it something?” We answer, “It’s nothing.” A term that comprehends all that can be. ANDRÓGENO(Hermaphrodite)Some say that women have three wombs on the right and three on the left and one in the middle; some wombs create males, the others females, and the one in the middle hermaphrodites. And others attribute even more wombs to women, and many allow for none of this. ANILLO(Ring)Rings were worn on the finger closest to the pinkie on the left hand because there anatomists found a delicate nerve that runs from that finger to the heart; by it gold, like the stone, communicate their virtue, by which they comfort. APIO(Celery)The symbol of sadness and weeping.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It makes no noise, except when it brays, at which point it is insufferable.’ Photograph: Gary Ombler/Getty Images/Dorling KindersleyASNO(Ass)It makes no noise, except when it brays, at which point it is insufferable. A child can take the ass where he wants; the ass brings us bread and wine; it pulls the waterwheel; it carries the wheat to the mill; it cleans the house and dungs the fields; sometimes it plows; it threshes in season and harvests grain; it has no bile. The ass seems inept for war, but some nations have used it in war; the asses of Palestine were nimbler than horses. Its head, affixed to a sown field, not only shoos birds but fertilizes the land. They make sieves to sift wheat from its hide. A hard callous grows on asses’ knees; mixed with aged oil this callous is so potent that when one anoints oneself with it, even if one is a woman, a beard grows there.ATEO(Atheist)He is ungrateful.ÁTOMO(Atom)Those little specks that float in the air and can only be perceived with the sunbeam that passes through a chink in the window.Translated from the Spanish by Janet Hendrickson*****Sebastián de Covarrubias Horozco (Toledo, 1539–1613) was a Spanish lexicographer, cryptographer, writer, and priest. In 1605 he began to write the Tesoro de la lengua castellana o española, published in 1611, the first monolingual dictionary in a Romance language. This dictionary contains, in its encyclopaedic scope, speculative etymologies by which Covarrubias sought to trace the roots of Spanish to Hebrew, which he considered to be the divinely inspired language of a pre-Babelian state in which words and their meanings coincided perfectly. Covarrubias is also the author of Emblemas morales, published in 1610, and Tratado de cifras, now lost.Janet Hendrickson translates from Spanish and Portuguese. Her translation of The Future Is Not Ours, an anthology of stories by Latin American writers born since 1970, was published by Open Letter Books. Her translations of fiction and essays have appeared in publications including n+1, The White Review, and Granta. She earned an MFA in nonfiction writing from the University of Iowa and is currently at PhD student in Hispanic literature at Cornell University.