 Exotic houseplants are now well and truly back at the forefront of fashion After a long hiatus since their 80s heyday, houseplants are now well and truly back at the forefront of horticultural fashion. Hallelujah! Yet the choices available in British garden centres are still either restricted to the same boring old suspects (think weeping figs and kentia palms) or are quirky but super-pricey living works of art, such as trailing succulents and mature cacti. However, there is a way to get really unusual, essentially “unbuyable” houseplants for free, all in return for just a little patience. Here are my favourite exotic houseplants, growable from kitchen scraps.PineappleThis fruit from the South American jungle is surprisingly easy to grow in the average living room. Simply cut off the leafy top of a shop-bought fruit and remove any of the lower leaves. Sit the cut top on a bright windowsill for a day or two to allow the excess moisture at the severed end to dry out and plant it cut-side-down in a pot of ordinary houseplant compost. A sunny windowsill makes the perfect habitat, and at about two to three years of age these plants can even start to bear fruit of their own.AvocadoThe glossy, dark green leaves of this new world tree are wonderfully ornamental. All you need to do is bury an avocado stone, pointy end up, in a pot of gritty seed compost, about 5cm deep. Place on a warm windowsill, water in well and within 2-4 weeks you should start to see the shoots breaking through the soil’s surface. Once large enough, avocado plants can take a surprising degree of frost so, when they eventually outgrow your living room, it’s worth a gamble outdoors if you live in a mild, urban area. There are dozens of mature fruiting trees, for example, outdoors on council estates near me in west London. I have even spotted one in central Dublin.Lemon, orange and grapefruitAlmost all citrus fruits will sprout very readily from seed to form lovely, evergreen houseplants. They will, however, take forever to fruit from seed, and most will not come true to type. This means the quality of the fruit (even once you get it) will not reflect that of its parent. However, do not let that put you off, for these plants will give you a harvest that is far more costly to buy. Orange and lemon leaves are also traditionally used as a culinary herb in an identical way to bay leaves in the cuisines of Latin America and southeast Asia, imparting a fresh, uplifting citrussy aroma that is very different from the peel of the fruit. All that from pips that would otherwise go to the compost heap.Email James at james.wong@observer.co.uk or follow him on Twitter @Botanygeek