An advert for dating site Match.com has come under fire for suggesting red hair and freckles are “imperfections”.The Advertising Standards Authority has received around “half a dozen” complaints about the billboard, which appears in tube stations in London.Fleur Bone (@FleurBone)Thanks https://t.co/aJZcvXM0Ss. Lovely to learn I'm covered in "imperfections" #LoveYourImperfections pic.twitter.com/dQVTPquoarApril 11, 2016On Twitter, several people have called out the advert, criticising it for “profiting by bullying.”city vegan Ⓥ (@cityvegan)Lowest form of advertising @match_UK claiming freckles & eye colour make a person imperfect? profiting by bullying pic.twitter.com/MxrhtJ6OaXApril 10, 2016Among those criticising the advert was Emma Kelly, who edits a website for redheads called Ginger Parrot. She told the Guardian: “We had one comment on our site from a woman whose child has red hair and freckles – she said she hoped she doesn’t walk past one of the billboards because it would make her feel bad about how she looks.Emily Forbes (@eemilyjf)Dear @match,Congratulations. What an impressive & educated tag line you've created. Thank you for outlining pic.twitter.com/cUVxya0HB0April 10, 2016“This is the first time they’ve focused on physical appearance in this campaign and it’s really disappointing that this kind of thing is still acceptable.”Charlie Clemmow (@charlieclemmow)Dear @Match - these are my #freckles, not my #imperfections - whether people like them or not. pic.twitter.com/5ipUTTnLjWApril 8, 2016Another advert, which features a person with two different coloured eyes, has also been criticised.Heather DeLand (@HeatherDeLand)Advert fixed now! Judging on the colour of skin... FAIL #advertisingfails #freckles #skincolour #dating @Match pic.twitter.com/eB3i8ZntyzApril 11, 2016The ASA confirmed to the Guardian it had received complaints about the advert. A spokesman for the authority said: “We’re currently carefully assessing the complaints to establish if there appear to be any grounds for action.“It’s important to stress, however, that we haven’t launched an investigation.”Nick Dastoor (@NickyD)Righteous freckles activism. pic.twitter.com/uStGEQVWHrApril 11, 2016The billboard is part of a Match.com campaign which has been running since 2014. So far, it has been met mostly positively – although one billboard, featuring a man who never has his travelcard ready, was good-naturedly ridiculed earlier this year.Helen O'Hara (@HelenLOHara)Look, Charlotte may be a sweet simpleton but Mark is a MONSTER. pic.twitter.com/p43wJ3XjJbJanuary 17, 2016A Match.com spokesperson said in statement: “Our adverts reveal common perceived imperfections and quirks of Brits – these include freckles which some people who have them may see as an imperfection. We think freckles are beautiful and our posters are designed to encourage everyone who has them to be proud. “We’re sorry if anyone has been offended by our latest ad - that was not our intention – but we’re really encouraged to see so many people standing-up for what makes them unique.”