6. Operation Owl Location: Woking, Surrey Established: March 2014What they do:Operation Owl is a volunteer-led community project concerned with the protection and conservation of a depleting owl population. “We go out on jollys to check on owls. If we get local sightings, we’ll go out and put a box up for them,” says David Askew, one of the lead volunteers. The boxes are used for nesting and provide shelter from the rain, and the group have put up 14 boxes already and have 24 waiting to be allocated to a spot. The group use their data on owl numbers as an indicator of the levels of biodiversity in the borough. They also bring in ornithologists to talk to the public.Why it started:Ray Morgan, chief executive of the Corporate Management Group at Woking council, wanted to encourage more biodiversity-focused community projects in the Woking area. Alison Daykin and Charles Barber lobbied to set up a project focused on owls.How many people are involved?“We are the three musketeers,” says Askew, referring to himself, Daykin and Barber. “But all sorts of people – doctors, scientists and bird specialists – have all been happy to get involved in Operation Owl.” A host of wildlife groups are also involved in an advisory capacity; The Twitchers, Surrey Wildlife Trust, The Horsell Society, and the British Ornithological Society.Does the group get funding?Woking borough council provided an initial £3000 to get the project started. Thames Water donated £2000 and said they were keen to get bird boxes put up all over the Thames Valley. Funding goes towards bird boxes from the RSPB, wildseed, and training courses on recognising pellets.What would they like to do next?“We are looking to grow our partnership base and we we want to go out to schools and run projects where children can learn about pellets,” says Daykin. “It’s the kind of disgusting and fascinating thing we think they’d enjoy, but they’d also learn about the environment from it. With some funding, we would love to encourage children to put boxes up near their school – we think that using cameras would be a good way of keeping them involved without the owls being disturbed.”What can you do to help?You can email Askew with owl sightings if you’re in the Woking area: d.askew1@ntlworld.com. “We need wardens in spring and autumn to look for pellets on the ground and to record owl sightings so we can monitor the population. It’s about trying to work out what is going to be genuinely beneficial,” says Daykin. You can also attend one of the events put on by Operation Owl. “Alison managed to get the wonderful Chris Sperring who brought two of his owls to the Lightbox to speak about them and the place was packed,” says Askew.Can I set something like this up in my area?Yes, absolutely. Your first steps must be to get advice on making sure the boxes are in the right place. “We encourage people to build their own boxes, to leave them somewhere they think best and to leave them undisturbed,” says Daykin. “You don’t have to get too close; you can learn a lot about the health and species of an owl from their pellets alone.” The Barn Owl Trust has fantastically useful information on their website about supporting owl populations, including advice on nestboxes, encouraging wild Barn Owls and what to do if you find an owl. You can also download a number of informational leaflets on owl conservation here.The Wildlife Trust’s website has practical information for setting up boxes and lists opportunities for people to get involved with existing owl conservation projects, while the various regional wildlife trusts around the country hold regular informative events for adults on children to learn how to identify wildlife tracks, signs and owl pellets, and to learn more generally about birds of prey. You can see a full list here and search for particular dates, places, events and keywords. The projects in this series: 1. The community supported farm2. The bike repair co-operative3. The community garden centre4. The community forest5. The meat-rearing collective6. The owl conservation group7. The neighbourhood community scheme8. The local beer-growing group9. The Solar Schools project10. The clothes swap project11. The beekeeping group12. The repair cafe13. The ecotherapy garden14. The community allotment15. The nature reserve16. The school growing project17. The traffic reduction projectThis article is part of the Live Better Community Project month. In September, we are showcasing 17 community projects from around the UK. We are asking you to vote for your favourite project. The project with the most votes will be awarded £1,000 of funding, and two runners-up will each receive funding of £500. One voter chosen at random will receive £150 worth of gift vouchers for Nigel’s Eco Store. Terms and conditions here.With thanks to: 10:10; FOE; Project Dirt; Neighbourly; UK Community Foundations; Groundwork; Business in the Community; Federation of City Farms and Community Gardens; the Prince’s Trust; Garden Organic; the Royal Horticultural Society; the RSPB; Keep Wales Tidy; The Wildlife Trusts; and Mind. Interested in finding out more about how you can live better? Take a look at this month’s Live Better challenge here.The Live Better Challenge is funded by Unilever; its focus is sustainable living. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out more here. 