Research shows – my research, that is – that children are awful little shits. It’s come to something, though, when pint-sized cruelty leads to a family tragedy of unimaginable proportions and subsequent years of torture. You would hope someone might have used the naughty step before they got to that point. Anyway, new mystery drama The Five tells the story of just such an occurrence. Through a series of flashbacks, we watch as a group of youths leave a young charge alone in the woods, abandoned for the crime of being annoying.Two decades later, with little lost Jesse long presumed dead, all those darling children are brought back together. Jesse’s older brother Mark (Tom Cullen) has become a lawyer for deprived kids, the sort of vocation that seems to go hand-in-hand with handsome brooding, and which complements his other habits of jogging away from his own guilty past, waking up amid newspaper cuttings of his missing sibling, running his fingers through his hair in a troubled fashion etc, etc. His best friend Danny (OT Fagbenle) has also grown into a police detective, while Pru (Sarah Solemani) has returned from the US after 16 years with suspiciously knitted eyebrows. Essentially, it’s I Know What You Did 20 Summers Ago (You ’Orrible Little Brats).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   O-T Fagbenle as Danny. Photograph: Ben BlackallThere’s a plot full of knots, and a drama as tense as it is spooky as it is mysterious. Yet following it isn’t too much of a task, thanks in part to some odd practices among the main characters. Danny, for example, is given to staring intensely at a police board full of forensic scribbles and muttering to his detective sidekick, who I’d imagine is fully up-to-date with the case, strangely specific bits of exposition. “DNA from a kid that’s been missing for 20 years suddenly turns up at a crime scene, and then a few days later Gemma, who’s been missing for five years, suddenly reappears,” he’ll say, adding sagely, “We shouldn’t be sitting here eating cream cheese bagels.”That the gang abandoned Jesse in the wilderness is clear; it’s what happened afterwards that remains tightly bound up in mystery. Did little Jesse take to the woods and go feral, coming out only to kill? Did he form a band of Warriors-style survivalists with other mites who wandered off after school? Personally, I like to think he walked round in circles for a bit before locating a Wimpy and camping out there, finding its ready supply of 7-Ups and friendly grease-stained waiters preferable to his previous life. Taking the soap opera approach of maximum plot security however, only a few people know the outcome of The Five, presumably those in the upper tiers of production and Harlan Coben, who wrote the original thrillers on which the drama is based.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tom Cullen as Mark. Photograph: Ben BlackallAll in all, I’m not sure what to make of The Five. On the surface, it’s a sort of CSI Bedfordshire, a laminate-floored Center Parcs crime mystery, a DFI-showroom noir. Stay with it, though, and you find yourself meditating pretty deeply on how hard it must be for full-time professional chiller-adapters. How close they come every day to writing unintentional satire that could quite feasibly pass as outtakes from Garth Marenghi’s Darkplace, cut for being too hammy. Let’s consider glamorous satellite character Britnay (“That’s Brit-nay, not Britney”), who strolls in with a cheeky Starbucks for returned kidnap victim Gemma only to scream and run in the opposite direction. Or Mark’s swaggering determination to conduct his own shadow investigation, which may well be highly unorthodox but, damn it, these guys need answers. If The Five fails to find its audience – which I have a sneaking suspicion it might – all will not necessarily be lost. Stick Matt Berry and a few joke-shop moustaches into the mix and they’ve got themselves a hilarious E4 series and several comedy awards in the bag.The Five starts tonight, Friday, 9pm, Sky1