Michael Jackson’s Journey from Motown to Off the Wall9pm, BBC2Death cleansed Michael Jackson of a considerable amount of suspect business, leaving the way clear for musical appraisals such as this by Spike Lee. From Philadelphia International producers Gamble and Huff to Motown head Berry Gordy and former CBS chairman Walter Yetnikoff, key players explain the credibility problems that were faced by the Jacksons on their departure from Motown, and explain how it was that Michael was able to turn things around. John RobinsonPointless Celebrities6.30pm, BBC1Not a sub-section in Waterstones, rather the return of the series in which Alexander Armstrong and Richard Osman are joined by various slebs to mine for those obscure answers. Today the guest contestants comprise the supremely odd couplings of Ian “Private Pike” Lavender and Inbetweeners star Emily Atack; Kerry Godliman from Derek and ex-Goodie Graeme Garden; Fast Show great Simon Day and stand-up Paul Chowdhry; and The League Of Gentlemen’s Steve Pemberton and comic Bob Mortimer. Ben ArnoldAnt & Dec’s Saturday Night Takeaway7.10pm, ITVFaultless Saturday night entertainment from the masters of the art. This week Ant & Dec are joined by Eddie The Eagle film stars Hugh Jackman and Taron Egerton, with Jackman playing guest announcer. Peter Crouch and Abbey Clancy test their pranking skills, and there’s a sing-off between two West End musicals to close the show. The highlight is Who Shot Simon Cowell?, a spoof that sees Ant & Dec on the run after unmasking the killer of the high-trousered star. Hannah VerdierFollow The Money9pm, BBC4As its title suggests, the latest Scandi import to occupy BBC4’s Saturday subtitle slot is less visceral noir and more corporate thriller. But it still has an old-fashioned detective, Mads (Thomas Bo Larsen), at its centre, a cop with definite maverick tendencies who, via the death of a Ukrainian workman employed at a wind farm, finds himself working with a strait-laced partner to investigate fraud at a Danish energy company. One of the major plot developments is a mite too obvious, but this is stylish and compelling nonetheless. Jonathan WrightThe Jonathan Ross Show9.40pm, ITVLast episode in the current run of Ross’s chatshow. As is often the case, it’s a thinly veiled plug for an upcoming movie, in this case the imminent Eddie The Eagle. Taron Egerton and Hugh Jackman both appear, just in case we hadn’t quite got the message from their earlier encounter with Ant & Dec. Plugging another new film – an adaptation of JG Ballard’s High-Rise – is Luke Evans. Comedian Shazia Mirza is also on the bill, and there’s music from Primal Scream, touting their hilariously titled new album, Chaosmosis. Andrew MuellerCoastal Walks With My Dog8pm, More4As series premises go, this could hardly be simpler or more agreeable. Satisfying both the “ahhh” and the “awww” factors, and as part of More 4’s Rambling strand, it finds stars walking their pooches along the coastlines of Britain. First up, Bill Bailey and Louie potter around north Devon; Cerys Matthews and Smot check out Pembrokeshire; and Debra Stephenson and Biscuit navigate Dorset’s Jurassic coast, where the limestone arch of Durdle Door looks, she says, “like a dragon with its head submerged”. Charming. Ali CatterallEvolution Of The Polar Bear7pm, DiscoveryGlobal warming’s melting of the northern ice cap means tough times for polar bears, as hunting gets harder. Might they make like the more comfortable grizzly bears and become omnivores? There are also signs of interbreeding between white and brown, although bears considering this step should know they’ll be called pizzlies. This film makes a lot of promises about how polar bears are adapting but doesn’t ultimately have much to say about it – mostly it’s just depressing footage of them slowly starving. Jack Seale      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fired up ... Timothy Spall in Wake Wood.Film ChoiceForbidden Planet(Fred McLeod Wilcox, 1956), 8.35am, BBC2A vintage sci-fi version of The Tempest, with Walter Pidgeon’s Morbius the Prospero figure marooned in space with virginal daughter Anne Francis and Robby the Robot. Leslie “Police Squad!” Nielsen’s rescue-mission crew is first charmed by the Eden they find, then terrorised by the Monster from the Id, the evil alter ego of Morbius. Impressively made and suspenseful, though some of the acting lets it down, and Robby’s a real scene-stealer. Paul HowlettKick-Ass 2(Jeff Wadlow, 2013), 10pm, Channel 4A welcome, if underpowered return for the geeky, not-very-super teenage crimefighter Kick-Ass (Aaron Taylor-Johnson); again he’s upstaged by Chloë Grace Moretz’s anarchic Hit Girl. Despite her wowzer martial arts skills, she has promised her dear departed dad (Nicolas Cage) to be an ordinary high-school kid. Fat chance, when there’s the villainous Motherfucker to take down… PHWake Wood(David Keating, 2010), 1.15am, BBC1Like the Venice-bound couple in Don’t Look Now, vet Aidan Gillen and pharmacist Eva Birthistle try to assuage the grief of their child’s horrible death by moving – in this case to rural Ireland. But it’s soon clear that the apparently friendly locals, led by the faintly sinister Arthur (Timothy Spall) harbour secrets of the gruesome, devil-worshipping kind, in an impressively chilly horror story. PHToday’s best live sportT20 World Cup Cricket: India v Pakistan A geopolitically tetchy-looking Group 2 fixture. 1.30pm, Sky Sports 2Premier League Football: Everton v Arsenal Arsenal attempt to keep their title hopes alive. 12noon, BT Sport 1Six Nations Rugby Union: Wales v ItalyThe final day of fixtures with all six teams in action. 2pm, BBC1Formula 1: The Australian Grand PrixThe first race of the season from Melbourne. 4.30am, Sky Sports F1