Rewind a few years and the Sportsman pub’s greatest claim to fame was the fact that it stood next to the only place in the second world war where British troops exchanged fire with German forces on English soil.On an unprepossessing strip of marshland hugging the Thames estuary in north-east Kent, the German crew of a downed Junkers 88, desperate to destroy the plane and prevent the British military gaining vital knowledge of its capabilities, exchanged fire with soldiers from the London Irish Rifles who were billeted in the pub.Since then, the former smuggler’s haunt near Seasalter has undergone several reincarnations, including a stint in the 1970s when it was a popular live music venue.Now, though, the pub is on the UK’s cultural map for very different reasons. After years of being feted by restaurant critics, chefs and Michelin inspectors, the Sportsman was voted restaurant of the year by Restaurant magazine .Chef Stephen Harris proclaimed himself “gobsmacked” at the award, which was based on the views of some 150 industry experts.Hailing Harris’s achievements, the magazine’s editor, Stefan Chomka, said: “Stephen Harris once described the Sportsman as a ‘grotty boozer by the sea’. But it’s certainly way more than that. The former history teacher is one of a handful of UK chefs to practise genuine terroir cooking down in the Kent estuary.”Chomka’s comments may have left some confused. Oenophiles talk of the importance of terroir – a French word invoked to explain the magical combination of soil, climate and landscape that allows vines to flourish – but it is not commonly used in gastronomy.Indeed, even Harris, whose Michelin-starred restaurant eschews tablecloths and is famous for his unstuffy approach, is keen to demystify the phrase. “It’s just the idea of cooking what’s around you. In Normandy, cooking uses lots of cream and apples; in Provence, it’s olive oil and tomatoes. We just followed a similar idea but, obviously, Kent has a lot of food. It’s very good for meat, shellfish, apples, pears, strawberries and raspberries.”The DIY chefs: ‘You’re making something you just can’t get elsewhere’ Harris is being characteristically modest. The Sportsman takes terroir cooking further than most. The restaurant grows most of its own vegetables in its garden and its chefs make regular excursions to the estuary mudflats to collect oysters and forage for other shoreline produce such as urchins. Lamb comes from the salt marshes visible from the pub’s car park; chickens from a farm a few hundred yards away.Harris makes his own butter, combining it with a magical local ingredient – seaweed. Salt, too, is produced on the premises using local seawater.This is in keeping with the terroir tradition that extends far beyond simply using local produce. “It [terroir] refers to the uniqueness of a place, one that gives food from a particular region its particular taste – meat, cheese, vegetables and fruit all taste differently in different regions,” said Elizabeth Carter, editor of Waitrose Good Food Guide. “But it is more than just soil and climate – it is the growing method and techniques, the application of habit and custom that defines the food. It’s also about using old methods of preserving, fermentation, smoking, to preserve local, seasonal produce for the winter season.”Of course, many chefs have been banging the local produce drum for years. Farmers’ markets in any major city now emphasise the locality of their produce – much of which can come from up to 30 miles away. But the Sportsman’s emphasis on using only the very local is to be welcomed, said Alexia Robinson, founder of Love British Food fortnight.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The pub uses local ingredients as much as possible. Photograph: the sportsman“The word local has been bastardised,” Robinson explained. “The classic example is the pub menu when you see a phrase like ‘local lamb’. Nothing is more irritating; it’s a meaningless expression. If this award gives local a more integral interpretation then that is to be hugely applauded.”Some may wonder whether terroir is itself just another gastronomic concept set to enter the foodie lexicon before quickly dating. But this would be to mistake it for a fad.Raymond Blanc at Le Manoir aux Quat’Saisons, in Oxfordshire, has been an arch-proselytiser for terroir cooking for decades. Visitors to his restaurant are free to wander around the gardens, where they find many of the ingredients that make it on to their plates. Blanc, who is president of the Sustainable Restaurant Association (SRA), became convinced of the importance of terroir as a small boy when his father gave him a scoop of soil and told him to smell and taste it.“It’s why I want to know as much detail as possible about every ingredient we serve to our guests,” he said. “By reconnecting people with their food, we create a population that will value what they eat, which in turn produces more fertile land, more prosperous farmers and a healthier nation that can enjoy the amazing food that is produced here in Great Britain. Food connects with everything – our landscape, our soil, our heritage, our health and the agriculture and industry of today is quite simply creating the society of tomorrow.”Blanc’s near-religious fervour asks a lot of its disciples, however. Tom Tanner, spokesman for the SRA, acknowledged that terroir cooking asks hard questions of its practitioners. “There are challenges for some restaurants. In this country you have to think long and hard about how you are going to do stuff.”Indeed, not every restaurant is lucky enough to reside in the Garden of England and have an abundance of high-quality produce to hand. As Shane Holland, executive chairman of Slow Food UK, which promotes sustainable food production, explained, some restaurants have no choice but to source their produce from further afield. “One of the difficulties in the UK is that our food is quite industrial. We don’t necessarily have very diverse agriculture in all areas. That can make it harder to source, depending on where you are. One of the reasons for the Sportsman having such variety on its menu is that Seasalter has great meat, great fish, great seafood. It is more difficult to source that from a very, very small area. If you are trying to take meat from the local area, for example, that can be quite difficult because there is a shortage of abattoirs.”Harris agreed that terroir cooking can force the chef to be more inventive. “In the winter we have to look further afield, but there is so much good produce around here we can mainly use what is around.”Much depends on him exploiting his local knowledge. Harris and his brother, who runs front of house, have been at the Sportsman for 16 years. Between them they have an unsurpassable understanding of when and where to source the restaurant’s produce.“Over the years, the Sportsman has discovered who are the best producers,” Tanner said. “They create a relationship with these people. They know how those farmers and fishermen are working, what techniques and farming methods they are using. They have faith in them, they invest their trust in the farmers.” This is how chefs operated in the days before motorways and railways. “You could call it pre-industrial cooking,” Carter said. “The way food was grown, produced, cooked and eaten before the industrial revolution.”Terroir cooking, when done authentically, is as much about history as geography, an attempt to reconnect with the past. Harris is reminded of this every time he steps outside his pub and views the flat, bleak expanse of marshland that in Roman times was one giant salt pan and gave Seasalter its name.“Terroir is about continuing a tradition,” he said. “We’ve maybe pushed it a bit further than the idea has been pushed before. I accept that making your own salt is a strange thing to do – but it’s a kind of romantic idea. These days it’s very fashionable to talk about the narrative behind the restaurant. When people come here they like the idea we even make our own salt. It’s part of the story.”PACE SETTERSRelae The Copenhagen restaurant has just bought its own organic farm which will produce a large proportion of its food. Azurmendi The restaurant near Bilbao seeks to rescue varieties of vegetables that are on the edge of extinction and has created a seed bank.L’Enclume The Cumbrian restaurant was the Good Food Guide’s 2013 restaurant of the year. All produce used by chef-patron Simon Rogan comes from his own farm nearby.