 As America’s first black president winds down his second term in office, it would be nice to think that a film festival telling stories of the civil rights movement would be unnecessary or, perhaps, an exercise in nostalgia. Instead, the US is a country beset by police violence against black citizens, one that nominated a presidential candidate who blithely incites hatred against minorities and immigrants – a country, in other words, where the March on Washington film festival feels frighteningly relevant.  “This campaign season is all about people not being welcome in this country,” says Rita Coburn Whack, codirector of Maya Angelou: And Still I Rise, a new documentary which will be screened on 18 July. The festival has doubled in size over four years and features 17 events in Washington DC from 13 July through 23 July. “This festival is perfect for Maya Angelou’s story, especially in these times. She would have been focused on what she had to do for change. She would be out protesting and talking about reconciliation, which we need now more than ever.” The festival debuted in 2013 with eight films – including the established classics To Kill a Mockingbird and Spike Lee’s 4 Little Girls, and Kerry Kennedy’s new documentary about John Lewis – timed to the 50th anniversary celebrations of the March on Washington. But even before the tragedies in Ferguson, Staten Island and Baltimore, even before Donald Trump started conjuring the spirits of Strom Thurmond and George Wallace, Robert Raben, who cofounded the festival with Victoria Bassetti, knew it would resonate with modern audiences.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  “We are not running a museum. We are not showing grainy newsreels. We are telling the stories of participants without the filters of textbooks and traditional history lessons,” says Raben, who advised the former congressman Barney Frank on civil rights issues, served as assistant attorney general under Bill Clinton, and now runs the Raben Group, a public affairs and lobbying firm focused on social causes from gun control to immigration reform. (The Raben Group produces the festival.) The goal of telling civil rights stories through the participants lends an urgency to the mission, Raben says, pointing out that Julian Bond, who helped start the Student Non-violent Coordinating Committee, died shortly after attending last year’s festival. Maya Angelou died in 2014 during the making of And Still I Rise. “It is crucial we catch these people and their voices now,” Raben says. “We can have their children or scholars, but it is not the same.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Maya Angelou: ‘It is crucial we catch these people and their voices now,’ say the festival organisers. Photograph: Tim Sloan/AFP/Getty Images In the festival’s second year, the Raben Group tried expanding simultaneously to Atlanta and New York; it has since scaled back those ambitions, focusing on growing in Washington, where it expects to draw 5,000 people to its free and low-cost events. (Top tickets are $10.) But Raben still has grand plans – to avoid diluting this festival too much, the Raben Group is developing a Chicano rights film festival on the west coast, a child labor film festival and others. “They will be parallel platforms,” Raben says. He also hopes to expand the festival’s online presence as a resource for those who cannot attend. The March on Washington film festival is, not surprisingly, inclusive and open-minded. The festival producer Isisara Bey notes that this year “marks our first foray into international programming”. The evening titled Civil Rights and the World will examine racial justice issues in Europe through a panel, a short from France and a full-length documentary called The Hard Stop about the 2011 police killing of Mark Duggan, a young black man from England. “The festival will remain rooted in the American civil rights movement but is committed to international multiracial programming,” Raben says. Dionne Walker, cowriter and producer of The Hard Stop, praises the festival for opening a dialogue among all the “diaspora”. “I think it’s indeed important to carry on the march [and] sustain the legacy of Dr King, which is to lead on not only civil rights but international human rights,” she notes, especially “when we consider how the far right is gaining strength across the west”.Another new element is the inaugural student and emerging film-maker competition, which received nearly 100 entries from America and around the world and which, Raben says, will also keep the festival timely. “We are connecting our history to what is current, asking the young film-makers: ‘What’s your civil right – what are you willing to sit down for or go to jail for?’” This year’s lineup also includes a discussion and performance by the surviving original Freedom Singers, documentaries that tie music (The Amazing Nina Simone, Mavis!, Two Trains Runnin’) and sports (Third and Long, about the integration of the NFL) to the movement and a three-day celebration of the alliance between black Americans and Jews during the movement. Last year, Raben used his personal relationship with several supreme court justices to arrange for the closing night to be held in the court. It featured films about the former justice Thurgood Marshall, and about Judge Constance Baker Motley, followed by a panel with their sons and the singing of We Shall Overcome. This year’s big finish, on 23 July, will be at the Smithsonian National Museum of American History. A screening of the documentary The Education of Harvey Gantt will be followed by a discussion between Gantt, who integrated Clemson University and was later the mayor of Charlotte and a Senate candidate, and the former congressman Mel Watt and transportation secretary Anthony Foxx. “The lives of these three men show the years of brotherhood, sacrifice and dedication,” Bey says. Gantt knows that on some level, such events are preaching to the converted, but he says that especially in a year like this one, the festival’s mission remains vital. “I think the people paying attention to this festival are already on the side of Hillary Clinton – it’s likely that supporters of Trump are not going to be as interested,” he says. “But the festival reminds people that if we are not vigilant and if we don’t go to the polls in large numbers, there is a lot to lose.”The March on Washington film festival starts on Wednesday 13 July. Details here 