You can see why New Street Adventure have called their second album Stubborn Sons. In a musical world made up of woozy hip-hop, postmodern pop and lonely laptop boffins, they’re an indie rock group obsessed with the soul music of the late 1960s and early 70s. It is not, it has to be said, the most fashionable sound around right now.“No, it’s not,” concedes Nick Corbin, the band’s songwriter and lead singer, when we meet in a London pub. “But this is what we like, what we’re good at and what we’ve honed for a long time.”Corbin has stuck to his guns since forming the band at university in Birmingham in 2007, maintaining his vision through several lineup changes (at one point they boasted female backing singers and a horn section) and even a relocation from Birmingham to London that saw everyone quit the band but himself. His dedication speaks of a deep love of soul music – from the northern soul floor-fillers of Deon Jackson to the work of Curtis Mayfield and the Impressions – and a belief that he can express it with a five-piece band and “a London accent”.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Soul music runs in the family for the 30-year-old, who remembers his father coming home from all-nighters with various medals he’d garnered on the dancefloor. (“He used to do backdrops, a good mover.”) In fact, it was a night out with his dad at the 100 Club in London that inspired The Big AC, a joyous paean to the indefatigable spirit of northern soul that became embraced by the UK’s mod scene.“I remember when we did a show in Newcastle, we’d not played there before and it was all a bit tame,” says Corbin. “Then we played that song and everyone just descended on to the dancefloor.”Indeed, the contacts and community in the mod scene were a springboard for the band, plugging them into an underground circuit that runs from Cardiff to Dundee. While most guitar groups find an audience through Huw Stephens and Zane Lowe, New Street Adventure rely on listeners to radio shows like The Craig Charles Funk and Soul Show.  I understand the limitations of my voice. But our fans understand that I know soul music. I’m not jumping on a bandwagon Such audiences aren’t easy to win over, though, and if Corbin didn’t have an innate understanding of classic soul songwriting he’d soon be found out. But he does – the band’s 2014 debut, No Hard Feelings, pulled off the Dexys trick of squeezing funk and soul into the guitar-group format, be it slowies (Foolish No More) or brass-propelled dancefloor numbers (She’s an Attraction). It helps that his band are made up of jazz musicians, of course, and whereas Corbin might not be the new Curtis, his voice has a passion and earnestness to it that recalls Kevin Rowland.On Stubborn Sons, songs such as Rascal continue in the laid-back soul tradition, while Something More Than This is perhaps the biggest pop number the band has done. Corbin sings in his own southern accent and, citing Alex Turner as a key influence, writes about his own experiences: scraps with boozed-up rugby teams; grim social media rubbernecking; even articles he’s read in the Guardian.“There was a piece about Owen Jones and Paloma Faith where they were talking about how musicians are scared of writing political songs,” he explains. “So we wrote Why Should We Do Anything?, a political song about writing political songs.”Stubborn Sons looks likely to help build New Street Adventure’s fanbase, and it might even allow Corbin to quit his other job as a decorator and handyman. If not, I can certainly think of artists who might make use of him as a co-songwriter behind the scenes (in fact, he says he’s already dipped his toe into this world, working with Lack of Afro and new Acid Jazz labelmate Gizelle Smith).“I understand the limitations of my voice,” he says. “But our fans understand that I know and appreciate soul music. I’m not just jumping on a bandwagon. You hear people like James Morrison or whoever, and they’ve done well, but you hear them talk about artists like Al Green or Stevie Wonder. Nothing against those artists, I love them, but if your understanding of soul music only goes that far you’re not even scratching the surface.”New Street Adventure are at XOYO, London, on 20 April. Then touring the UK.