Death was a constant presence in my childhood. My father [Graham Hill] was a Formula One driver and at the time, F1 was horrific. It was a bloodsport. I remember thinking my dad might not be here next Christmas, or next week. Part of me felt impressed that my dad was special and did something dangerous, and part of me was thinking: but I don’t want him to die, I don’t want him to be doing this.My mother liked brave men and was a competitive person. But she never had a sense of herself as someone who was autonomous and could take charge of her own life. Our whole family was orientated towards my father’s satisfaction. My mum’s job was to make sure everything was right for him. My sisters and I were secondary to that project.My sister Brigitte is 18 months older than me while Samantha is four years younger. There was definitely some sibling rivalry to claim closeness or proximity to our father when we were young. And as Graham Hill’s only son, I was always being put in cars and photographed – and they weren’t.I had this gang of great-aunts – Edna, Gladys, Phyllis and Constance – and one great-uncle, Reggie, who wouldn’t say boo to a goose. He was completely cowed by his formidable sisters, including my grandma. They were all small and round, apart from Gladys, who was quite tall and thin. It was like they were something out of a Miss Marple episode. My grandma was obsessed with bowel movements – everything was to do with whether or not you’d done a number two.I was 15 when my father died [in an air accident]. His death was an emotional nuclear bomb. It was so out of the blue – he’d just retired and so my mum, my sisters and I had let our guard down, after being prepared for the worst for many years. It caught us so hard. There was a void – a crater – where he had been. I dealt with things by telling myself it was no good feeling sorry for myself. We were lucky to have had the time we had with him.I absolutely worshipped my father, but when he died, the spotlight was turned off and I had the chance to be myself. There was this sense of relief. I didn’t have to worry about whether my dad approved of what I was doing. It was a complicated feeling of freedom, at the cost of his life.My father’s death made me want to follow in his footsteps and start racing. I hadn’t expressed any desire to race cars before he died and I might not have felt any motivation to race if he’d lived – I honestly don’t know. I do know I haven’t missed it that much since I stopped. By racing, I was resurrecting my dad. My performances were mine, but they inevitably contained some legacy of my dad’s racing career and honoured his memory. In some senses, it was a way of getting to know him as an adult that I couldn’t have done any other way. Knowing what he went through, I did get closer to understanding him. But it’s a very difficult thing to carry on in the same profession as your parents if they have been successful.My mum, who is 90, was and still is a very loyal supporter. During my career, she could be a little bit of a liability. If I was ever wronged in her eyes, then she didn’t hold back in letting people know what she thought.I’ve tried to keep a lower profile while my kids have been growing up because I wanted them to have the space to be themselves. If they are being shoehorned into some image from a very early age, they won’t have a chance to find out who they are. I hated being in the limelight as a child.• Watching the Wheels by Damon Hill is published by Macmillan, £20.