The celebrity chef David Chang’s first restaurant outside New York, Momofuku Seiōbo in Sydney, has been named Australia’s restaurant of the year at the 2016 Gourmet Traveller restaurant awards.Based in the Star casino, Seiōbo seats 35 diners who are delivered the $185 tasting menu by the chefs themselves. It is one of many “bistronomy”-style restaurants – world-class experiences in casual settings – that were honoured at the awards in Sydney on Wednesday night. David Chang: New York's king of the pork belly bun “You have a genuinely world-class team, a million-dollar kitchen, but they’re playing the Pixies while you’re drinking your strange, oxidised Jura wine,” Gourmet Traveller’s chief restaurant critic, Pat Nourse, told Guardian Australia. “Increasingly, [the restaurant world] is about personality. It’s not about, ‘I’m from Italy,’ any more; it’s about, ‘I’m from Italy, I live in Australia, and I like Japanese food.’”For the past year, Seiōbo’s kitchen has been run by Barbados-born Paul Carmichael, who left Chang’s New York eatery Má Pêche in 2015 to take the reins from Ben Greeno when he moved to the Merivale group. After a three-month warming-up period, Carmichael was ready to unveil his own menu – a significantly different one to that which launched the restaurant five years ago. Chang’s world-famous pork buns are gone, replaced with a Caribbean take – think plantain chips, koji butter, green mango and jerk spices – on modern Australian food.The awards ceremony was held at David Thompson’s Thai street food restaurant Long Chim, which is set to open in Sydney on 29 August after Long Chim Perth launched successfully in Western Australia last year. The second most-coveted title – the peer-voted chef of the year – went to Ben Shewry from Attica in Melbourne.The secret life of Australia's top chef 2015 was a big year for Shewry; after working at Attica for more than a decade he borrowed against his house to buy the restaurant from its owners. “It’s the greatest thing [I’ve done] in my life, besides having children and marrying my wife,” he told Guardian Australia. “I feel like Attica is one year old.” Shewry was also one of the six chefs featured in the first season of Netflix’s Chef’s Table. “It was a little surreal,” he said. “It was a pretty big Hollywood production. Overwhelmingly it’s been positive, but I think most people cringe when they see themselves on TV. So for me there’s been a lot of cringing. “They edited three weeks of footage into one very emotional film. So it didn’t show the joy or fun, and it didn’t show the teamwork, either ... but I’m my own biggest critic for sure. Nothing is good enough for me.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ben Shewry of Attica at the awards ceremony. Photograph: Lauren Trompp/Gourmet TravellerThat drive for improvement pervades Attica’s ever-developing menu, and Shewry shared details of an upcoming dish he has been working on – An Imperfect History of Ripponlea, as Told by Tarts – which will tell the story of the land on which Attica is based. One tart will represent the cultivation and cooking of the Indigenous people of the Kulin nations; another will be inspired by the Rippon Lea estate, which was built for the politician Frederick Sargood in 1868; and the third – “a chicken soup and matzah ball tart” – will represent the Jewish migrants who moved into the area after the second world war.Shewry said Melbourne’s restaurants did not do enough to reflect the city’s rich Jewish heritage. “We don’t reference it in our cooking. I live in a Jewish community and I want to try to understand the people through their culture and their food.“This is a great country to be a cook in,” he said. “I wouldn’t be cooking anywhere else in the world.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sydney’s Restaurant Hubert team on the podium at the 2016 Gourmet Traveller restaurant awards. Photograph: Steph Harmon for the GuardianAnother of the night’s big winners was Sydney’s Restaurant Hubert, which picked up best new restaurant and best wine list of the year. Melbourne and Sydney dominated the awards – but pressed to pick a city he would send a food-loving friend to, Nourse said 2016 belonged to Sydney. “There’s more happening here right now … at every level,” he said. “There are exciting things happening in three-star, one-star, two-star and Laminex level – right now it’s Sydney.”Rockpool Sydney restaurant named the best in Australia by Gourmet Traveller Though there were mostly men on the podium, Nourse said the industry’s infamous gender imbalance was beginning to shift. Slowly. “There are not huge changes, and not quickly, but it is happening,” he said, highlighting the work of Kylie Kwong, Analiese Gregory at Bar Brosé, Emma McCaskill from Magill Estate, and Thi Le from Melbourne’s Anchovy, who won in the best new talent category. “One of the chefs who I’m most excited about opening in the next couple of months is Tama Carey, who used to be the chef at Berta,” he said. Carey’s new Sri Lankan street food project, Lankan Filling Station, soft-launched with Sydney pop-ups last month as it searched for a venue. “That’s going to rock.”Full list of winnersRestaurant of the year: Momofuku SeiōboChef of the year: Ben Shewry, Attica New restaurant of the year: Restaurant HubertBest new talent: Thi Le, AnchovyRegional restaurant of the year: Igni, Geelong Bar of the year: Pink Moon Saloon, Adelaide Maitre d’ of the year: Andrew Joy, Marion, MelbourneWine list of the year: Restaurant HubertOutstanding contribution to hospitality: Bruce Pascoe, Indigenous author and educatorSommelier of the year: Dan Sharp, Sixpenny, SydneyThree-star winners: Momofuku Seiōbo; Attica; The Bridge Room, Sydney; Quay, Sydney; Sepia, Sydney; Vue de Monde, Melbourne; Brae, Birregurra, Victoria