Diversity on UK TV screens will move a step closer to the everyday next month when two black actors, Sophie Okonedo and Adrian Lester star in BBC1 thriller Undercover.The pair feature in a rarity for UK primetime drama, a show with black leads where the colour of their skin isn’t central to the plot.Written by the award-winning playwright Peter Moffat, the six-part drama comes as the BBC and other British broadcasters face mounting pressure to improve their record on diversity, both on and off screen.The show, about undercover police officers and death in custody, stars Okonedo as a high-flying lawyer about to become the first black director of public prosecutions. Lester plays her husband and the father of her three children.Lester said he hoped viewers would focus on Undercover’s tense story rather than the colour of the actors’ skin. “What appears on screen is just my everyday life. It’s not remarkable, it’s just Britain.” He said he had focused on his character’s nature – “a concerned parent, someone who loves his partner deeply, but who has lied” – and that society had to get to a point where it recognised “somebody’s skin colour isn’t a character trait”.Yet the issue of diversity continues to dog the BBC and other broadcasters. Earlier this month, it emerged that just 12.2% of BBC employees are black, Asian and minority ethnic despite setting a recent target of 14.2% by 2017.In January, Idris Elba, who broke the mould when cast as the lead in the primetime BBC drama Luther, spoke out against stereotyping black characters, saying that “TV hasn’t caught up with reality”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Idris Elba speaks to a group of MPs on diversityMoffat, who was inspired to write the story by the Guardian’s investigations into the behaviour of undercover policemen and the failures of the justice system and the media, said the idea of casting black actors in the lead had come as the storyline developed.However, several scenes brought home the significance of the casting, including one in which the main family are eating dinner in their nice middle-class home. “Here was a black family sitting around the dinner table eating pasta. So normal and yet I had never ever, not once, seen that on mainstream TV [in the UK].”Moffat, who won two Baftas for Criminal Justice, said the situation was far better in the US where popular dramas such as Scandal and Empire have given lead roles to black actors.Both Elba and Okonedo, Oscar-nominated for her role in the 2004 film Hotel Rwanda and currently appearing on Broadway in The Crucible, have said they were offered more opportunities for lead roles in the US. In an interview with the Guardian in 2014, Okonedo said: “Why isn’t my inbox of English scripts busting at the seams in the same way as my American one is? There’s something amiss there.”Sophie Okonedo interview: 'I have to go across the Atlantic to get work' Moffat, who credited his female lead for helping with the script, described the situation in the UK, where Luther has no black friends or even acquaintances for example, as “embarrassing” but said he was optimistic things would improve.“I think it’s about to change. I know people at the BBC who want to change it and will change it,” before adding that it showed how far society had to move if “even the BBC, which is fairly full of liberal thinking folk, hasn’t got round to sorting this stuff out”.The Labour MP Chi Onwurah, who has spoken out about the lack of diversity on British television, said there was still some way to go 15 years after Greg Dyke called the BBC “hideously white”. Onwurah said: “I think it’s brilliant but at the same time also slightly ridiculous that the BBC has discovered that there are professional black families,” and called for more people from BAME backgrounds behind the cameras as well as in front of them.Both Moffat and Lester, who has won awards for several Shakespearean roles, said it would be disappointing if viewers focused on the colour of the main characters’ skins by the second episode.Moffat said that as well as being inspired by the scandal of undercover policemen, he had been made “profoundly angry” by the revelation that the sister of a former paratrooper who died in police custody, Christopher Alder, had been spied on after his death by the police.“I don’t think we should think about black parts or white parts but ... we should think about imagination. We should have black actors playing the Night Manager ... and not think about it.”Undercover is set to appear on BBC1 in April.• This article was amended on 10 March 2016. An earlier version said incorrectly that Undercover would be the first primetime British drama to feature two black actors in the lead roles.