What’s the most unusual place you’ve performed in?I spent my second year of university studying abroad in Angers, France, and for our spring break my friends and I took a trip to Rome. We were running low on euros (thanks to grossly exceeding our bar budget), so to raise funds I stood on the lip of the fountain in Piazza Navona and sang a few songs while my friends went around busking on my behalf with baseball caps. I believe Caro mio ben and Was ist Sylvia were on the set list. We made enough to continue the bacchanal, but there is no doubt that the few bucks we gathered were given out of appreciation for our sheer chutzpa rather than the quality of the performance.Which conductor or performer of the past would you like to have worked with?As I immerse myself in rehearsals for Béatrice et Bénédict at Glyndebourne, I wish I could have worked with Sir Colin Davis. He was just so musical. But also his body of works exhibits a unique perspective on the repertoire and his distinct tastes for certain composers. I admire artists who are so clearly animated by their passion for the music, and who advocate for it with such conviction.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest How do you mostly listen to music?Spotify has changed my life. I was against it at first because I had the impression that it did not fairly compensate the artists whose music was being streamed, but I did enough research to convince myself that the calculus of remuneration was enough to suspend my ethical qualms. I’m still ambivalent about that side of Spotify’s model, but the service and content it provides are a great boon. I have creative ADHD – musical interests and ideas pop into my head and disappear before I have a chance to pursue them. Spotify allows me to immediately research and stream music on my iPhone, and the ability to share playlists with friends and colleagues is a huge help when you travel a lot. Spotify’s full impact on the economy of music remains to be seen, but I am hopeful that it will enhance audience engagement in new music and facilitate a conversation about it among interested parties.What was the last piece of music you bought? Elgar’s Dream of Gerontius with Sir Colin Davis leading the Staatskapelle Dresden with Paul Groves singing the title role. I’m singing the piece for the first time with the Bamberg Symphony in the coming season and needed to swim in it this summer. I’ve watched the tape of the live performance of Sir Andrew Davis leading the LPO with Phillip Langridge on YouTube countless times (I don’t think there is an equal to Mr. Langridge in the role) but I felt it was important to get other interpretations in my ear too so I wouldn’t just copy the one version I know. I’m considering a third recording for study... any suggestions? If you had six months free to learn a new instrument, what would it be?    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The clarinet. Definitely. I guess I thought it was just a coincidence at first that I found the clarinet concertos of various composers my favourite of their works, but it gradually occurred to me that it had a lot to do with the smooth sound of the clarinet itself. I think it is the orchestral instrument most like the human voice - the sound is made with the breath after all, and as such has an inherent vocal quality. And of course singing is the foundation for all music and all musicians, right?Also, to my ears the sound of the clarinet is completely idiomatically appropriate and ideal whether heard in Mozart, Gershwin, or Unsuk Chin. To my American ears, the instrument bridges the sonic gap between the received European tradition and our native jazz. Two of my desert island pieces are clarinet concertos: Mozart’s and Copland’s. But of course there’s Artie Shaw, too.Did you ever consider a career outside of music? Doing what? I try frequently to imagine what line of work I might either enjoy or succeed at (usually the two don’t overlap for me) and am at a loss. I’m spoiled by the fact that I’ve been getting paid to sing so it’s hard to consider other careers where I might have to do actual work. What’s been your most memorable live music experience as an audience member?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Inspirational - tenor Kurt Streit. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianIn my first year of university I had begun to take the idea of singing opera seriously, but the event that solidified that impulse was a performance of Don Giovanni at the Lyric Opera of Chicago. It was a phenomenal cast with Bryn Terfel singing the title role and Susan Graham singing Donna Elvira among other luminous singers. But of course it was the tenor, Kurt Streit, that really grabbed my attention. Donna Anna stormed out after Or sai chi l’onore, and Don Ottavio elegantly made his way down to the lip of the far edge of stage left and sat at the base of this enormous column to deliver Dalla sua pace with superhuman breath control and ease. I was on the edge of my seat and my heart was racing as he sang the softest, sweetest, and slowest return of the aria’s A section I have ever heard. That moment was thrilling and made palpable the magic of hearing opera live. It planted a seed of desire to do what he had done that I am still chasing today.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lucy Crowe (Merab), Sophie Bevan (Michal) and Paul Appleby (Jonathan) in Glyndebourne Festival’s 2015 production of Saul by Handel, directed by Barrie Koskie. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianWhat is the best new piece written in the past 50 years?Well, I only know a minuscule fraction of the works in question, but with that in mind, William Bolcom’s song cycle of seven poems by the great American poet Theodore Roethke for tenor and chamber orchestra Open House is just about perfect. The piece premiered in 1979 at a time when tonality was slowly being allowed back in. Bolcom says that his goal was always not to write “classical” music, a philosophy that I think is now dominant among composers of my generation. I admire him so much because his technical chops are wide and deep and he’s willing to employ any style or technique at the service of communicating ideas and emotions. Open House strikes an impeccable balance of diverse styles thus erasing the distinction between “serious” music and “everything else.” He makes atonal moments heart-wrenchingly beautiful and the “banal” pop music moment revelatory. And no American has ever set the English language better, or with such wit and feeling. I’d really love to record the piece - if any chamber orchestras out there are interested give me a ring!What’s the most overrated classical work? - ie is there a warhorse whose appeal you really don’t relate to?Is it acceptable in polite society to say Beethoven symphonies are overrated? This isn’t meant as a slight on the symphonies themselves - of course they are monumental cultural treasures - but more as a criticism of the excessive frequency at which they are programmed. More space needs to be given to new works!Which non-classical musician would you like to work with?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bob Dylan: ‘his music and poetry stand alone in their magnificence’ Photograph: Christopher Polk/Getty Images for VH1I love Bob Dylan so much because although I have spent more time with his songs than any other songwriter ever, I still don’t know who the real Dylan is (if there is such a thing.) I don’t even think of him primarily as a musician so much as some kind of performance artist whose body of work over the decades has been a long exercise in defying the culture’s expectations of him. Of course his music and poetry stand alone in their magnificence, but his refusal to conform to any fixed idea of who he is as an artist seems to me a kind of living metaphor for the nature of life and human identity itself. If you need a backup singer, Bob, give me a call.What do you sing in the shower?I have a playlist on my phone that I’ve been using for years that I sing along to as a kind of pre-warm-up. It starts low mumbling along with Morrissey and gradually takes the voice higher until I’m mumbling with Thom Yorke: 1. Half a Person, the Smiths 2. Hearts and Bones, Paul Simon 3. Shoes Without Heels, Elvis Costello 4. The Painter, Neil Young 5. Knives Out, Radiohead.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It’s late, you’ve had a few beers, you’re in a Karaoke bar. What do you choose to sing?I find it mortifying when operatic colleagues of mine get on the karaoke mic and sound like René Pape singing “Sweet Caroline” so I always pick something that will help me avoid using vibrato. My go-to has always been Try a Little Tenderness by Otis Redding. It’s more like a controlled scream with expressive grunts and cries punctuating the phrases. You can work the room by acting a little shy and uncertain at first, and then really get taken over by the groove as it builds. I am just doing my Otis Redding impression but it sounds nothing like him so it comes off as original!Paul Appleby sings Bénédict in Glyndebourne’s new production of Berlioz’s Béatrice et Bénédict from 23 July to 27 August.