He was a master of 20th-century British art, famed for the vivid recreations of his Berkshire home. And, according to a newly released cache of love letters, the late Sir Stanley Spencer had a private life as colourful as his paintings.Hundreds of letters and artist’s notes for an unrealised autobiography are to be published for the first time, shedding new light on the painter more than half a century after his death.The new documents include an erotic love letter that Spencer wrote to his first wife, Hilda, after their divorce. The explicit text, sent after Spencer had married a woman with her own gay lover, is so descriptive it spans an entire 180cm (6ft) roll of wallpaper.He told her: “I want you. I would like to do a nude painting of you … I am desiring you hard and it is such a joyful thing … You did not like it too strongly showing under my trousers … I am touching the father thing as I write. Do touch yours or tell me you did in memory of me.”Such is the scale of the family’s archive that the material will be published over three years with as many volumes. The first book will be launched on Friday at Tate Britain in London.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stanley Spencer’s letters. Photograph: Family handoutThe artist’s grandson, John Spencer, told the Guardian that Spencer’s full story would finally be told, “warts and all”. He said: “People have written about Stanley. Now we’re going to see Stanley’s and Hilda’s own words.”The family, who have a vast part of their archive in the Tate, said they wanted to honour Spencer’s wish that everything would be published in full. In researching the artist’s works and letters, John discovered swaths of material that had previously been unknown, including the wallpaper love letter. He found it in a cupboard, wrapped up in newspaper and so delicate that it needed a paper restorer to unravel it. No one had read it until now, he said.“That’s for next year, when we do book two and the love story between [Stanley and Hilda] … the love story in brutal, honest detail.”Spencer is revered today for paintings in which he cast local characters from his beloved Berkshire home village, Cookham. He portrayed them as biblical figures.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Some of the new material was so delicate it needed experts to handle it. Photograph: Family photoHis masterpieces include The Resurrection, Cookham 1924–27. It shows Cookham as a paradise in which seemingly ordinary figures are given mystical significance. The local churchyard was the setting for the resurrection of the dead, with Christ enthroned in the church porch. Spencer painted himself in the piece, nude and near the centre, with Hilda asleep in a bed of ivy.The artist married Hilda in 1925, but they divorced in 1937, and within days Spencer had married Patricia Preece, a fellow artist. She was gay, and the marriage was never consummated. Hilda had no wish to be his mistress, but she remained the love of Spencer’s life.In another unpublished letter, he wrote of longing to see her within hours of marrying Preece. John Spencer said: “Patricia seduced him and got what she wanted, which was his cash. On the wedding day, he wasn’t allowed into the bedroom.” But Spencer and Hilda were “in love with each other the whole time”, he believes.The three volumes will be published by the Unicorn Publishing Group. The first, titled Stanley Spencer: Looking to Heaven, focuses on his early years, including his service in the first world war. Having been a hospital orderly, he was a soldier on the Salonika front in Macedonia.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stanley Spencer in 1958. Photograph: John Pratt/Getty ImagesJohn Spencer said: “About 70% [of the material] has never been published, and only bits of the other 30%.”They reveal an innocent young village lad sent off to war, long before he met Hilda or knew anything of the opposite sex. He wrote of his shock over a local man’s affair with a married woman, observing that it “makes me quite mad”.While Spencer wrote of trying “to visualise what wounded soldiers looked like when on active service” and confided that his sergeant major had “eyes that paralysed me with fear”, he seemed to take his mind off the horrors of war through art.In letters home to his sister, he requested “more paints please”, and “books on Giotto or Botticelli” and, among other writings, he observed: “Other people in other callings than mine have not the dislike I have for war.”Some of his letters have little sketches, including one of himself telling his sister not to send any more clothes: “I am very well off for clothes. This is me with all my clothes on.”He stuck to his army duties diligently, despite a disregard for authority, as revealed in a 1917 letter from Salonika in which he wrote: “Just to spite anything that would cause me to rot away out here, I defy the blight and bloody, empty, gutless opaqueness that would possess me. I am a thousand times more determined to do something … greater than anything I have done before when I get home.”