I quickly shut my laptop, but my older son had already seen the words: extradition, evidence, DNA. The words alone would not have worried him. I write detective novels and search for similar information all the time, but that day I was searching for information about my own life and I worried that my demeanour, my mood, would betray the difference.After more than 20 years, police in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, had at last discovered through a DNA match the identity of the man who raped me in 1992.Now it was 2013, and my life had progressed. I had moved from America to England. I was married, we were happy. Our boys were eight and 12 years old. I wanted to protect them. I tried at first to keep the truth from them. The details of the crime – even the fact of the crime – were not something children should have to know about.But the prosecution quickly took its toll on my emotions. I was distracted, impatient, on the edge of tears. Protecting my sons from knowing that something was hurting me turned out to be impossible. My stress was obvious. So I sought to protect them instead from the varied imaginary explanations they would concoct for my strange, sudden sensitivity. I would tell them what was happening, but carefully. In a recent, casual conversation, my older son said the word I had been shielding him from Terrible things, even murder, happen in the novels I write and read, yet they are enjoyed as entertainment. I’ve wondered: what makes crime a palatable subject when it’s told as a story? Two elements stand out: the crime is usually at the start of the book, not the end. That structure alone is comforting. A crime of this degree can feel like an end, but in my books I teach myself over and over that it’s not: it’s where something else begins.And the detective is a star. There are things to be done after something terrible has happened. I wanted to be one of the people doing those things.So that is how I framed my story to my sons. The crime (I didn’t specify what) had happened a long time ago, and now other things, good things, were happening. The police and the prosecutors and I were working to make those good things come true. At that time, my boys were into a lighthearted, courtroom-set video game and excited that I was going to get to be a hero – like the ones on their little screens – just by testifying.I explained important phone calls and sudden travel in the context of “good news” and “progress”. I focused on the mechanics of the case, mostly detective-and-courtroom developments, and skimmed over the crime itself. They seemed content with this, to have an explanation and something to root for, and relieved to not have to deal with the crime itself.While it was often difficult to push aside my intense emotions and put on a happy face according to the boys’ schedule, that turned out to be a gift to me: parenting forced me outside the house.My job as a writer is isolating. I can only write when I’m alone – even my husband asleep in the room with me puts me off. I spend hours each week thinking, researching, daydreaming, typing in a room by myself. Often, the only times I leave the house are for my sons’ classes, rehearsals and plans with friends. I escort them to community centres, concert halls, friends’ houses and, most often, the Cambridge college chapel where they both sang as trebles. Almost all my friends were parents of my boys’ friends. Almost the only times I saw these friends were at these drop-offs and pick-ups. These connections were haphazard, but they were often the only adult interactions I had.These outings had another consolation. My boys sang in the choir to a glorious standard and played in orchestras around the city and county. Hearing them was comforting on the music’s own merits, and also reassuring in that it seemed to prove that they were learning skills and teamwork, and were surrounded by friends and opportunities. For all that I worried how my stress was affecting them, they at least had those things.Two years later, when he was 14, my older son asked for more details, not about the crime, but about the way certain relationships had changed around us during the prosecution: most prominently, we had left our church and started afresh elsewhere. I had been honest with him while it was happening, but carefully spare. This time I explained a little more, now that he was older and I was less in the middle of it all.He took it all in. “Thanks for not telling me that then. That would have made it harder,” he said. But he seemed glad to know it now.When my memoir of this belated prosecution was acquired by my publisher, before I signed the contract I told them that I didn’t want the word “rape” on the cover. If that was going to be a deal-breaker, better to discuss it up front. I needed my boys to be able to walk by a bookstore display and feel proud, not horrified. I needed their friends to not see that word in passing at the library or on the way to school and ask my boys what it meant and why I wrote a book about it.Protecting my kids in this way turned out to be a gift to myself as well, because it reminded all of us that my memoir is about more than just the crime that started it and more than the prosecution all those years later. It’s about love and friendship and struggle and ambition and comfort. Comforting my children was a comfort to me; protecting them protected me. Parenting them forced me to remain engaged when I wanted to hide inside; parenting them gave me a structure that the freedom of my creative work couldn’t.Parenting them through the situation is something that continues even now, as they become able to ask for details that weren’t appropriate then, as we all adapt to a new normal after the upheaval over the prosecution, which affected all of us. In a recent, casual conversation, my older son said the word I had been shielding him from. “You have nothing to worry about, Mom,” he said, about publishing my memoir of the case. “The only people who would get mad about your book are rapists.” Then he changed the subject. He didn’t seem to want to elaborate, but he wanted me to know that he knew.• Jane Doe January by Emily Winslow is published by William Morrow & Co, £18.99. To order a copy for £15.57, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call the Guardian Bookshop on 0330 333 6846