Sara Baume, given to interrupting her fast speech with bursts of laughter, is finding reasons why her first novel, Spill Simmer Falter Wither, proved far more popular than she imagined it would. After all, she points out, it had a dog on the cover, and “people like dogs”. True, although One-Eye, companion to Ray, was less of a bundle of social media-friendly cuteness than an emblem of ragged isolation and the kinship of misfits.Yet, to Baume’s surprise, Spill Simmer Falter Wither was shortlisted for the Costa first novel award, won an Irish book award and was longlisted for the Guardian first book award and the Desmond Elliott prize. We’re meeting at the Tate Modern because Baume has travelled to London from her home in west Cork to collect the Geoffrey Faber memorial prize, whose previous winners include Julian Barnes, Seamus Heaney and David Mitchell.But that success doesn’t insulate her from being “terrified” about the publication of her second novel, A Line Made By Walking (Heinemann), the first-person narrative of a young woman who takes up residence in her dead grandmother’s house as her life – and mind – begin to fray at the edges. “One swallow doesn’t a summer make,” Baume points out. “One book isn’t a career. Two books isn’t a career. Ten books … when do you ever pat yourself on the back and go, I’m safe now? I’m good for life. I don’t think that ever happens in the arts.”And it surely doesn’t happen when your work is ambitious, and when you find yourself unwilling to be constrained to a particular art-form or medium. Baume grew up reading fiction – her mother is a voracious reader – and developed a youthful taste that extended from JD Salinger to Rohinton Mistry and Arundhati Roy. But she didn’t conceive of herself as a writer, particularly because her schooling gave her no option to combine literature with the visual arts, in which she was becoming increasingly interested. She tells me she used to make fantasy speeches accepting the Turner prize. Has she done the same with the Booker? “No!” she laughs. “Funnily enough.”In 2000, when she turned 16, her mother brought her to London and they visited the newly opened Tate Modern, where she remembers seeing Louise Bourgeois’ giant spider, Maman: “We did the tourist things, but I’ll never forget coming here. This was the big deal for me.” Her love of artists such as Andy Warhol, Robert Rauschenberg, Joseph Beuys and Yoko Ono was also allowing her to realise that “writing was not just sentences, structure and narrative – you could totally break the rules”. But it was the visual arts she gravitated towards for her first degree, studying fine art at Dun Laoghaire and specialising in sculpture. When the writing got published, it was like, oh no! Maybe this is what I should have done with my life! What happened afterwards is instructive in the context of our tendency to pigeonhole and limit creativity. “I didn’t learn a lot of skills in college,” Baume says. “We did workshops in ceramics and metalwork and woodwork, but I didn’t specialise in anything. The most important thing was the idea.”After she graduated, she started working in an art gallery, “as many struggling artists do”. Then she began to write about art, and “almost immediately and very easily” that work was published. “Jenny Offill, in her novel Dept. of Speculation, talks about wanting to be an art monster. And I always wanted to be an art monster.” She is, she says, much ambitious than her boyfriend, also an artist. “I’ve always really wanted to do well, and needed that validation, perhaps more so than he does. And I definitely wanted to be the art superstar, the art monster. And when the writing got published, it was like, oh no! Maybe this is the thing I’m good at. Maybe this is what I should have done with my life! Which is stupid. But I pursued that more, and I thought, well, what I love to read is fiction, so why not try writing fiction?”It was, of course, not quite that simple. She got a portfolio of stories together, and “barely” got into the MA in creative writing at Trinity College Dublin on the second round; there she was taught by the writer Carlo Gébler, Edna O’Brien’s son, who impressed on her that to write well you had to know what your character had for breakfast and who his third cousin once removed was. But after her MA, it was five years before she got published. It was, she says, “really bleak and despairing. We lived in this crappy little house. We moved out of Dublin because we couldn’t afford the rents, and for five years we had no central heating, and this crazy dog.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The book’s not a polemic, it’s a novel’ … Baume at home in West Cork. Photograph: Patrick Bolger for the ObserverIt’s hard to imagine Baume’s writing had she not left the city. A Line Made By Walking is punctuated by small, grainy photographs of dead animals, taken by the narrator as she walks the countryside around her grandmother’s bungalow. They are, she says, a nod to WG Sebald, and her narrator seems to occupy a similar meditative and numinous space:Here is another rule for my project: no pets, only wild things. So it can be about the immense poignancy of how, in the course of ordinary life, we only get to look closely at the sublime once it has dropped to the ditch, once the maggots have already arrived at work.It is clear from Baume’s writing how her vivid apprehension of the natural world connects to her appreciation of artworks and her mapping of the psyche, a sensibility that puts her in company with writers such as Melissa Harrison, Helen Macdonald and Olivia Laing. At the risk of generalising, it also puts her at a slight remove from those up-and-coming Irish writers whose natural milieu is urban and suburban life. She laughs at how her surname – courtesy of Flemish carpet-weavers, who ended up in the north of England, where she was born – sits rather oddly with all the McInerneys and Barretts and Barrys; and, joking aside, she is conscious that their territory is different from hers. “I don’t really think of myself as a working-class writer in the way that Lisa McInerney very clearly defines herself, growing up in a council house and writing about drug dealers and gangsters,” she explains. “I know I don’t know those people and I can’t write them.”Indeed, she hit upon the character of Ray, in Spill Simmer Falter Wither, as a way of avoiding dialogue, because, she says, she didn’t want to get the voices of Irish people wrong. “I’m like, I need someone who’s not going to talk much, and who’s going to live very much in his own head. And so the way he speaks comes about from the radio and from the television and from the book.” Her caution at depicting “Irish voices” is striking, and derives from her dual heritage. Her English father came to Ireland to lay gas pipelines, and met her mother, an archaeologist, while “they were both in the ground”. They moved to England for a while, doing the same work, moving around a lot and living in a caravan; her elder sister was born in Surrey and she was born in Wigan, because “that just happened to be where the caravan was parked”. The family moved back to west Cork when Baume was a baby, but a sense of being from two places has persisted.She gravitates towards the rural tradition of John McGahern, Dermot Healy and John B Keane more than she does towards the émigré writing of Joyce and Beckett, and wonders if “not being fully Irish makes me more Irish in a way”. She is ambivalent on Ireland’s post-referendum position, noting that the EU has been both good and bad for Ireland; there have been benefits, but she points to the country’s coastlines, “flanked with Spanish, French, Dutch trawlers just scooping everything out” after Ireland gave away its fishing rights. She sounds a similar note of caution when it comes to overestimating socially progressive gains: Ireland may have voted for gay marriage, she says, but 40% voted against it; she is doubtful that an abortion referendum, if it ever came, would get past “what my boyfriend and I refer to as the Marys in Ireland – women of a certain generation who are still Roman Catholic and would perish the thought of voting for those kinds of changes”. I had no idea that by the time the book was published I would have experienced the full-force grief of a parent's death Living outside Skibbereen, up a lane with grass in the middle and ditches at the side, she’s aware of the value of community cohesion; the bachelor farmers nearby, she says, will always come and pull her out of the ditch if she gets stuck. She was living in another village when Spill Simmer Falter Wither came out, and she was suddenly “the famous writer of Whitegate”. She used to bump into a man who was “clearly struggling” with the book but would update her on his progress every time they met. Does she think he persevered until the end? “No, because we moved!”She says that A Line Made By Walking feels more like a first novel to her; and its narrator, who she emphasises is not her but who shares characteristics with a 25-year-old version of her, certainly feels like a piece of raw invention. Not least because she presents the reader with an exploration of the line between situational unhappiness and mental illness, and how best to treat both. “I was directionless, but I was put under pressure from professionals to be medicated for my lostness and directionlessness. Which I was quite resentful about for a while,” she says. “I don’t think I ever needed medication, but then I really don’t want to make people who do need medication feel that it’s wrong to take it. The book’s not a polemic, it’s a novel. But I’m really interested to see how people respond to that.”In the past few months, Baume has also been grappling with the loss of her father, who died only a few months after being diagnosed with cancer. The father in the novel, she says, is very much him, “and when I wrote that I had no idea that by the time the book was published I would have experienced the full-force grief of the death of a parent”. It had the effect of changing her own attitude towards her narrator when she reread the book: “They say you don’t really become an adult until one of your parents dies, and I felt that acutely. Suddenly I was much more responsible for myself. Looking back at the novel, I got so annoyed with the voice.”As for what’s next, Baume is adamant that ideas, rather than form, take precedence. Her latest project is visual: she has started drawing patterns in a notebook: cushions and carpets in the hotels she stays at while touring; her father’s hospital bedspread. At the moment, she says, that is her obsession, and obsession, she believes, is the only way to finish a piece of work. Once she worked with fabric, wood and clay, then she worked with words, and for now, she’s back to images: “I still want to think of myself as an artist in the general sense,” she says. “I have ideas and I pursue them to the end.”• A Line Made by Walking is published by To order a copy for £9.74 (RRP £12.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.