Buckwheat is a (pseudo) grain that is very close to my heart. I used to be a peculiar eater when I was a child, and would often ask my mother to cook me the same thing for the whole week. If I loved something, I just couldn’t let go; I had to have it until I could have it no more (until next time). Buckwheat would figure heavily in my obsessive repetitive eating. I loved it savoury, with soft, caramelised onions on top, and some chicken livers. But I also loved it sweet, for breakfast, doused in melted butter and sugar (I now substitute it with maple syrup).It was always prepared very simply by my mother, but now, I love experimenting with it. This seed (as that’s what it really is) is very nutritious, but above all it has a unique, rich and nutty flavour. It was hard to find when I moved to the UK 15 years ago. It is now, luckily, becoming more popular – if you have never tried it, it is well worth obsessing over.To cook your batch of braised buckwheatCooking buckwheat in stock gives it more flavour. Braising it with the addition of some mirepoix – if you have the time to chop some onion, carrot and celery – will take it to an even higher level.300g buckwheat600ml vegetable or chicken stockA few sprigs of thymeSea salt flakesBlack pepper1 Combine the buckwheat and the stock in a saucepan, season with the salt and pepper, add the thyme and cook over a low heat for around 20 minutes, or until the stock has been completely absorbed. Drain well. Keep the buckwheat in a sealed container in the fridge for up to a week.The spicy salad: Lettuce, peas and buckwheat salad with a minty adjica sauce (main picture)I love condiments that, with only a handful of ingredients, wield great power, and West Georgian mint adjica does exactly that. Mint is one of my favourite herbs, especially in combination with spring peas and lettuce. Chilli gives it a kick, and buckwheat softens the flavours. Prepared in advance, this makes for a super quick weekday dish.Serves 2-41 lemon, juice only150g cooked buckwheat50g peas, frozen or fresh 50g broad beans, frozen or fresh 50g lettuceFor the adjica sauce100ml rapeseed or olive oil25g spearmint, stalks and all, a few leaves reserved1 green chilli1 garlic clove, peeled and choppedA pinch of Maldon sea salt1 First, make the adjica sauce. Use a blender to blitz 3 tbsp of the oil with the mint, chilli, garlic and salt until well combined. The sauce will keep in the fridge, covered by the remaining oil, for several weeks.2 When you’re ready to eat. Mix the adjica with the lemon juice, toss it through the rest of the ingredients, then serve.The spring supper: Lamb with buckwheat, tarragon, watercress and spring onionsThis dish brings a welcome taste of spring. Tarragon, dill and lamb are firm friends and the watercress adds even further freshness, as well as a mustardy bite.Serves 2-43 tbsp olive oil350g lamb chops4 spring onions, chopped2 garlic cloves, finely grated150g buckwheat ½ bunch tarragon, chopped½ bunch dill, chopped50g watercress50g feta, crumbled1 Set the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4. Heat 1 tbsp of the oil in an ovenproof pan. Hold the lamb chops with tongs, fat-side down, and fry over medium-low heat for 2-3 minutes, until the fat starts to render. Raise the heat and sear the lamb chops (seasoning as you go) on both sides for 2 minutes. Pop the chops in the oven for around 5 minutes for medium, and longer if you like them more well done.2 Heat the remaining oil in another frying pan. Add the spring onions and cook for a few minutes, then add the garlic and cook for 1-2 minutes, making sure that it doesn’t burn. Then add the cooked buckwheat and heat through. Add the remaining herbs, then serve the mix on top of the watercress with some feta sprinkled over and the chops on the side.The lighter option: Buckwheat and shrimp cakes with a simple saladTinned brown shrimp (more like krill) was another childhood favourite. Like buckwheat, I used to eat endless tins of this until our home supplies dwindled. It felt only natural to join the two together here.Serves 2-4Juice of 1 large lemon2 tsp caster sugarSalt and black pepper2 fennel bulbs, thinly sliced50g radishes200g cooked buckwheat90g brown shrimp1 onion, peeled and diced1 chilli, finely chopped2 tbsp chives, chopped1 egg, lightly beaten100g mixed leaves1 Combine the lemon juice with the sugar and some salt and pepper in a medium-sized bowl. Trim the fennel and remove the tough outer stalks. Reserve the fronds.2 Slice the radishes and fennel as thinly as possible. Immediately toss them in the seasoned lemon juice to avoid oxidisation and to pickle them slightly.3 Blitz the cooked buckwheat with the shrimp in a food processor, then mix into the onions, chilli, chives and egg. Season and shape into small fishcakes.4 Heat 1 tbsp oil and a knob of butter in a pan, then fry the fishcakes over a medium heat for a few minutes on each side.5 Stir the pickled fennel and radishes through some mixed leaves, then serve with the fishcakes.The fish dish: Asparagus, buckwheat, sorrel and plaiceSorrel is a very underrated leaf that I’m hoping will soon make a proper comeback. Buckwheat is actually sorrel’s (and rhubarb’s) relative. So if you come across some sorrel, do not pass it by. Serves 2-41 bunch of asparagus1 knob butter2 plaice fillets50g sorrel or spinach100g cooked buckwheatFor the dressing½ tbsp vinegarSalt1 tbsp mustard1 tbsp honey2 tbsp rapeseed or olive oil1 Combine all the dressing ingredients in a bowl, then set aside2 Set the oven to 200C/400F/gas mark 6. Heat some oil in a roasting tin. Add the asparagus, then roast for 5-10 minutes, shaking the pan once halfway through. Tip into the dressing as soon as it comes out, mix, then leave in the bowl.3 Don’t wash the tray. Add the butter and heat again. Add the seasoned plaice, skin-side down, and the buckwheat, then roast for 7 minutes. Mix the sorrel into the asparagus, then serve with the fish.Olia Hercules is a food writer, food stylist and the author of Mamushka: Recipes from Ukraine and Beyond (Mitchell Beazley); @oliahercules