 1.29pm GMT Thanks for following the liveblog. I'm going to close it now, as we switch over to coverage in our news stories. Here's the top of Fiona Harvey's report, which we'll be updating throughout the afternoon: Europe will cut its greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030, compared with 1990 levels, the toughest climate change target of any region in the world, and will produce 27% of its energy from renewable sources by the same date.The landmark deal was reached after grinding negotiations dragged onto the deadline of 11am on Wednesday, as warring factions within theEuropean commission and member states fought over whether to water down the proposals.The EU is now the first to set out emissions reduction targets ahead of a crunch meeting of world governments in Paris in 2015 that will decide a global framework for avoiding dangerous levels of global warming. Every other major developed and developing economy is expected to set out its own binding national emissions target within the next year, for the United Nations talks to go ahead. 1.18pm GMT Lunchtime summaryThe EU will cut its greenhouse gas emissions 40% by 2030, on 1990 levels. Critics said 40% would do "little to tackle climate change" but European Commission president, Jose Manuel Barroso, defended it, saying "no capital was suggesting more than 40%"A new binding target was set of 27% of energy consumption coming from renewable sources by 2030, despite expectations that it would not be part of the package. However, it is not yet clear whether the target will be binding at the level of member statesNo new legislation will be brought in to regulate shale gas development. The energy commissioner, Gunther Oettinger, noted that "Poland, Lithuania and the UK want to forge ahead in this area"The EU carbon trading scheme will be reformed 1.10pm GMT Here's another sweep of reaction.Nick Molho, head of climate and energy policy at WWF-UK, said: It could of course have been worse but today’s announcement by the EU Commission is at the low end of what one can consider to be a credible EU response to the risks caused by climate change. A 40% greenhouse gas emission reduction target for 2030 also doesn’t provide a particularly strong market signal to the EU’s fast growing low-carbon sector, as the EU is likely to have achieved 30% emission reductions by 2020 given the impact of the economic slowdown. However, the UK government deserves credit for having pushed for a more ambitious figure in the run-up to today’s announcement.Rainer Hinrichs-Rahlwes, president of the European Renewable Energy Council, said: After a heated internal debate on whether to propose a very unambitious or just an unambitious climate and energy framework for 2030, the Commission has chosen the latter.Richard Warren, Senior Energy & Environment Policy Adviser at EEF, which represents manufacturers in the UK, says the 40% target should serve as justification for reducing the UK's existing domestic goal of 50%: Given the scale of current UK ambition, the key for UK manufacturers is less the final target announced by the Commission and more the UK Government’s reaction to it. It has been clear for a while that others in Europe have little appetite to match the UK’s binding 50% target and this announcement merely serves as confirmation. Government must act now in its review of the forth carbon budget to bring the UK back in line with Europe and send a clear signal that it is committed to ensuring the UK will remain a competitive place to invest through the 2020s.Lord Stern, author of the 2007 landmark report on the economic cost of climate change, said: Billions of euros of private investment in the low-carbon transition could be unleashed if the 2030 target gives greater confidence to companies, particularly in the power sector, that the European Union is on an optimal path towards the long-term goal of reducing emissions by at least 80 per cent by 2050 compared with 1990. China and many other countries recognise that the low-carbon transition will provide the economic growth story of the next few decades, and European countries will also gain from being at the forefront of this energy and industrial revolution. A strong emissions reduction target would also mean that the European Union can exert leadership in the international negotiations over a new climate treaty to be signed in Paris in 2015Marcus Pepperell, spokesperson for Shale Gas Europe, welcomes the lack of new EU-wide shale gas regulations: “Today’s announcement follows a thorough assessment and over a year of extensive public consultation involving a diverse range of participants including national governments, the energy industry, NGOs and environmental organisations, scientific experts, the business community as well as the general public. The European Commission has sought to strike a balance between Europe’s objectives of an environmentally sustainable, affordable and secure energy mix. However we will need to see how these guidelines are subsequently applied.”Keith Taylor, Green MEP for South East England, said: "Once again it seems that the British Government has acted to undermine vital environmental legislation from the EU.This Commission proposal on emissions reductions is far too weak. Greens would have liked to see a proposal for a 60% emission cut by 2030 rather than just 40%.It's also deeply disappointing that the Commission's proposal on renewables won't be binding on a country by country basis. Brussels has sadly caved into the industry cheerleaders and the British government.Ben Warren, Environmental Finance Leader at EY, said:  “At a time when green energy policy appears to be under fire in some quarters, the EU's reaffirmed commitment towards emissions reductions and a binding renewables target are a welcome sign. Whether these new targets are backed up by member states taking more immediate positive action remains to be seen.“Long term policy certainty and stability are undeniably important in order to attract investment in the sector, so today’s announcements are most welcome. However, what is also needed urgently, if the lights are to be kept on, is brave policy making in the immediate term to continue to drive down the cost of renewable energy investment, make projects financially compelling and avoid passing the cost of a balanced energy future to the next generation of tax payers.”Updated at 1.31pm GMT 12.50pm GMT What's next? The EC's holding a press conference in London at 1pm GMT.The UK Department of Energy and Climate Change will be holding a press briefing at 3.10pm GMT.Fiona Harvey will be reporting from both. 12.47pm GMT The press conference has finished. Here's some more snap reaction via Twitter:Bryony Worthington (@bryworthington)Overall this EU Comm has delivered best could be expected. Still opp to go further in int negs and, as w 2020, v likely to be overdeliveredJanuary 22, 2014Greens in the EP (@GreensEP)Yeah @CHedegaardEU you did it: an already-achieved 2030 target for greenhouse gas reduction and weaker EU renewables and efficiency policyJanuary 22, 2014Alastair Harper (@harperga)In a 40% #eu2030 world, the UK's 4th carbon budget should now be more secure than everJanuary 22, 2014Chris Goodall (@ChrisGoodall2)New EU renewables 'target' 2030 (27%) actually less ambitious than BP - an oil company - says will be achieved.January 22, 2014Sandeep Menon (@ByMenon)EU plan to cut carbon emissions 40% by 2030 has no form of legal targets to drive adoption of energy saving technol…http://t.co/QagaXsrDxfJanuary 22, 2014 12.39pm GMT Some more reaction, this from business, all quite damning so far. Though I suspect energy intensive industries and their representatives may strike a more welcoming note later in the day.The CEO of the European Wind Energy Association, Thomas Becker, says this of the lack of binding national targets on renewable energy: "The previously far-sighted and ambitious European Commission is a shadow of its former self, hiding behind the UK and other backward-looking Member States and lobbies. By effectively advocating repatriation of energy policy to Member States, President Barroso appears to have forgotten his previous calls for "more European integration" on energy policy."Harry Verhaar, head of global public and government affairs at Philips, said: Today’s proposal falls short of expectations of European companies looking for a strong framework to invest and innovate in Europe. The omission of a binding energy efficiency target is particularly disappointing. European policy-makers must realise that Europe will never lead on cheap energy and must lead on least consumed energy - energy efficiency is a key driver in making Europe more competitive and energy-independent. 12.34pm GMT Barroso was getting quite passionate and almost a little shrill there on the difficulty of getting a 40% carbon cut. From his tone, it doesn't sound like agreeing the deal presented today has been easy. 12.33pm GMT Hedegaard: I would be very, very happy if Europe very soon agrees that this [40% carbon cut], what we are proposing today, is the level. Barroso: We are having first European council meeting in March [on this subject]. Reality is that some member states would prefer not to go so far. They would prefer to be below 40%. And there is a discussionin society. No capital was suggesting more than 40%. Even the more committed leaders in terms of climate action. No one was suggesting more than 40%. One important point that we should have in mind is that this is a package. I remember in 2007, we proposed this in European council, first reaction was very negative, because some countries thought 20% was too ambitious. Afterwards, they saw they could get some important points through the package: for example, secruity of supply.It's not easy for 28 countries, with different energy mixes, with different attitudes of the public, to get agreement... Yes, I think it is possible to come to agreement on 40%, I think we can do it. 12.28pm GMT Lot of pushback from Hedegaard and Barroso against criticism that the carbon target is not ambitious enough.Hedegaard: Be honest, that is my message to the NGOs [calling for 55% carbon cut]. 40% is a big thing, not a small thing. Barroso:  Of course we remain committed to 2C goal [of keeping temperature rises below 2C above pre-industrial levels]. If now, EU adopted zero emissions for 2030, unfortunately that would not solve the problem. Tomorrow I will be in Davos with Ban Ki-moon, announcing some of these proposals. I will be so happy if some of our partners will be making something comparable, that would help solve the problem. With 40%, we are shaping the debate, while some other partners are, I'm sad to say, backtracking. They are in fact giving up on, for instance, the Kyoto commitments [he appears to be referring to Canada, which dropped out of the Kyoto protocol in 2011]. This is important to bear in mind when you are having a serious discussion of these matters.Updated at 12.28pm GMT 12.22pm GMT Some reaction from green NGOs and politicans, which has mostly been very negative:Green environment and public health spokesperson Carl Schlyter, said: Serious proposals on shale gas and fracking would have to include binding measures. This includes compulsory environmental impact assessments (including for exploration), clear separation distances and bans in environmentally-sensitive areas. In failing to regulate, the Commission is essentially promoting new, high-risk fossil fuel extraction in Europe. This is a blow for European citizens and the environment. Pushing ahead with shale gas extraction is a waste of effort and capital at a time when we need to be looking for ways to use less, not more fossil fuels.Greenpeace UK Executive Director John Sauven said: After months of bickering and in-fighting the European commission has produced a set of proposals that will satisfy almost no-one. They will do little to tackle climate change and in their current form give little certainty to Europe’s once thriving but now fragile clean tech sector. They would also leave European consumers hopelessly exposed to rising fossil fuel prices, which is what drove up energy bills in the first place.The commission has set out its broken stall – it’s now up to Europe’s elected leaders to fix it. They must agree to cut greenhouse gases by at least 55% by 2030 if they wish to play a meaningful role in a new global climate deal and help reduce the devastating impacts of extreme weather. They must also put in place a renewables policy that will give genuine confidence to those wishing to invest in Europe. Anything less will see Europe fall further and further behind the US and China in the global race for clean energy markets.Antoine Simon, shale gas campaigner for Friends of the Earth Europe said: Shale gas regulations have been fracked to pieces by corporations and fossil fuel-fixated governments. Insufficient and non-binding recommendations and monitoring mean fracking will go ahead improperly regulated and local communities will be the ones who suffer. Europe is putting the fox in charge of the hen house.Updated at 12.23pm GMT 12.20pm GMT Oettinger: our forecasts tell us about 33% of our energy will come renewable sources by 2030. So if we can go to at least 27%, in electricity sector, we'll be at 35%. If you compare that with other continents, I think that is unique.One member state is 90% coal, another is 76% nuclear [he's referring to Poland and France, respectively]Hedegaard on renewables: The art of politics is to propose something you can get through. It's important to think about how we can make a more flexible system, if we did not do that, this proposal today would be dead, politically-speaking.  12.16pm GMT Arthur Neslen of Euractiv asks why the renewables target is relatively low.Barroso: The 27% of renewables is function of 40% greenhouse gas reduction. So it's not business as usual. In our analysis, we have set the target that is compatible with 40% emissions reduction.What matters is the effective reduction of greenhouse gases... we can do it in different manners, through emissions trading, through increase in renewables, through energy efficiencyRenewables is not the end in itself 12.10pm GMT Hedegaard's finished and we're on to questions from the media now. 12.10pm GMT Hedegaard: If all other big economies in the world do a relatively ambitious effort equal to what we are proposing, the world will be in a better state when it comes to combating climate change 12.08pm GMT Hedegaard is speaking now: I knew my colleagues in the commission and the president's commitment to climate change well enough, to give it a try [to get tough targets].We have made it possible for EU to play its role to the full in the runup to the climate conference in Paris. For the world to believe in Paris in 2015, we need Europe to pull its full strength. Of course, good timing is not worth much if you don't have good content.40% carbon cut is a good, a realistic and yet ambitious target for 2030.We have now to reduce by 40% domestically in Europe.We are on track to meet not just 20% but 24% in 2020. We need strong EU ETS, strong price on CO2 [to get to 40% in 2030] 12.05pm GMT Oettinger: Poland, Lithuania and the UK want to forge ahead in this area [shale gas] 12.02pm GMT Oettinger on renewables target:It's a binding target of at least 27%. This commission and future commissions are committed to that objective, and that applies to council and parliament as well. Actors will have to work towards this move from 20% [in 2020] to 27% in the next decade.  11.58am GMT Oettinger: As far as investors in the energy sector are concerned, 2020 has suddenly turned into yesterday evening and 2030 is almost there.So this is the right time to put forward a package...The energy efficiency directive is still a very recent directive, and it's not been transposed into member state legislation. In spring, we are waiting on reports on how that is working in member states, and what savings are being made. In July, on basis of those reports, we will be conducting a review. And this interim report will serve as a basis on which to take further steps forward to preparing energy efficiency measures for the next decade. In September, further steps can be taken towards energy efficiency in next few decades. Energy efficiency is a decisive instrument in our energy and climate package. 11.55am GMT Barroso is wrapping up and passing over to the commissioners. I'll round up reaction shortly.Updated at 11.56am GMT 11.55am GMT Barroso: Let me conclude on why we are doing this now.2020 is basically around the corner. So we need already to prepare for 2030.There are strong international reasons for coming out now, to shape the global debate. In 2015, France will host the key UN climate summit in Paris...We need a first position [for New York meeting later this year with UN gen sec Ban Ki-moon with world leaders on climate change]This is a package that is the result of thousands of hours of work.Updated at 11.55am GMT 11.52am GMT Barroso: Shale gas is in many ways changing the landscape of energy in some parts of the world, also with important consequences [on energy prices]We need a Europe-wide baseline on environmental rulesThis is not new legislationNot meddling in the basic energy mix to be set by member states 11.52am GMT Barroso: today we are tabling draft legislation on EU ETS to address the supply/demand mismatchWe do not intend to change the marketWe want an automatic stabiliserWe believe... [this is needed] for investor certainty 11.48am GMT Apologies if I miss the odd passage from Barroso - the livestream is proving extremely flaky and keeps cutting out. 11.47am GMT Barroso: The goal is at least 27% renewablesWe cannot reach emissions target without renewablesRenewables target very important signal to investors and clear signal towards security of supplyWe propose not to set national binding targets [on renewables]One lesson we have learned from experience is... they do not allow us to reach targets in most cost effective wayWe need to make sure the national efforts add up to the [27%] target 11.44am GMT Barroso: We can do this [action on climate change] in a way that is beneficial beyond doubtThis 2030 proposal is critically importantClimate change is the defining challenge of our timeCompetitiveness is keyWe are beyond the debate where you either have to been green or a defender of industry. Can perfectly go together 11.42am GMT Barroso is speaking now, about the protests in Ukraine, saying the authorities should "deescalate" the crisis. 11.39am GMT Bit of context – 40% by 2030 shouldn't be a big deal for the UK, which committed two years ago to a 50% cut by 2050 (albeit after a lot of coalition infighting).  11.36am GMT Hedegaard is happy, judging from the smiley in her latest tweet on the deal:Connie Hedegaard (@CHedegaardEU)We got it: 40% GHG and AT LEAST 27% RES as a BINDING EU TARGET :-) #EU2030January 22, 2014 11.34am GMT Fiona Harvey says the commissioners are on the phone to member states. She also notes that the renewable target may not equate to a 27% target for the UK:  An interesting question regarding the renewables target will be what share the UK takes. The 27% target will be the total across all member states.For the 2020 target, the UK only has to produce 15% of energy from renewables, though the overall EU target is 20%.We are not sure yet whether country targets will be set out, as they were in the 2020 package. Though even in the 2020 package, the targets for countries were not laid out until a short while after the EU-wide target had been agreed, so we may have to wait a bit longer.Ed Davey is scheduled to speak to UK press at 1515pm today, so we can ask him then. 11.29am GMT Somewhat bafflingly, the EC has removed its press release. They can't still be arguing about the numbers, can they? We'll soon see if anything's changed when it puts out a new version – we've taken a copy of the original release. 11.26am GMT A 40% cut is unlikely to satisfy climate scientists. Kevin Anderson of the Tyndall Centre, who's very respected but at the radical end of the spectrum, has written an open latter to Barroso, saying he wants an 80% cut by 2030. That was never on the cards, politically, but it still gives a sense of the gap between the science and politics here: Global emissions today are 60% higher than at the time of the first IPCC report in 1990, and in the six years since the last IPCC report (AR4) a further 200 billion tonnes of CO2 have been released into the atmosphere. As a result, in 2013 the scale of mitigation required is now an order of magnitude more challenging than it was in 1990. The EU must acknowledge this reality if it is ever to catalyse meaningful action on climate change. This demands the courage to pursue an equitable and science-based 2030 decarbonisation target of around 80%. Anything less and the EU will renege on its 2°C commitments and, as the Commission rightly notes, bequeath to future generations a legacy of “devastating impacts”. 11.22am GMT Digital campaigners Avaaz say Barroso has ignored the 260,000 people who sent him personal messages calling for a 50% carbon cut, rather than 40%. Alex Wilks, its campaign director, says:“Barroso has failed in the acid test he set himself as president. He will be remembered for caving to polluters and presenting a package today that could create climate catastrophe. Fortunately he does not have the final say. It’s now up to chancellor Merkel, president Hollande and prime minister Cameron to drive a deal with other EU leaders that cuts carbon pollution in half and secures a safe future for our planet.” 11.16am GMT Here's what the commissioners are saying of the deal.Hedegaard:  In spite of all those arguing that nothing ambitious would come out of the Commission today, we did it. A 40% emissions reduction is the most cost-effective target for the EU and it takes account of our global responsibility.Oettinger: My aim is to make sure that energy remains affordable for households and companies. The 2030 framework sets a high level of ambition for action against climate change, but it also recognises that this needs to be achieved at least cost. And the EC president, Barroso: "Climate action is central for the future of our planet, while a truly European energy policy is key for our competitiveness. Today's package proves that tackling the two issues simultaneously is not contradictory, but mutually reinforcing." 11.10am GMT The press conference is still late to start, but that's not stopped the European Commission putting out a press release confirming the news that Fiona Harvey just broke. It says: A reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 40% below the 1990 level, an EU-wide binding target for renewable energy to 27%, renewed ambitions for energy efficiency policies, a new governance system and a set of new indicators to ensure a competitive and secure energy system. These are the pillars of the new EU framework on climate and energy for 2030 presented today by the European Commission. 11.06am GMT Fiona Harvey says the agreement went down to the wire and was only made in the last few minutes. She says:• 40% emissions cut• 27% renewables target, binding rather than indicative as some had speculated• 25% energy efficiency target - indicative, not binding• EU ETS will be reformed 11.04am GMT The AFP news agency is tweeting what we expected and basically knew already – that a 40% emissions target for 2030 is on the cards.Agence France-Presse (@AFP)#BREAKING European Commission seeks 2030 CO2 reduction target of 40%: EU sourceJanuary 22, 2014 11.01am GMT Fiona Harvey is hearing from Brussels sources that the renewable target will be binding after all. We'll know for certain in a minute – the press conference should kick off very shortly here. 10.55am GMT Here's a roundup from Twitter. The Greens in European parliament say "signs are not good", while the the head of Friends of the Earth in the UK says "EU must show global leadership on energy targets."stopclimatechange (@greens_climate)NGOs now protesting about the lack of ambition of the 2030 EU climate and energy package at the berlaymont pic.twitter.com/iRJhc8hiolJanuary 22, 2014Edward King (@rtcc_edking)Blunt from @CHedegaardEU "maybe we should start talking about the risks of carbon leakage in the EU" - http://t.co/RWyE4xuzGn #EU2030January 22, 2014Greens in the EP (@GreensEP)Big day for EU climate and energy policy, with the Commission to outline it's 2030 framework and proposals on shale gas. Signs are not goodJanuary 22, 2014Andy Atkins (@Andy2Atkins)EU must show global leadership on energy targets – we risk failure on climate change without strong carbon emissions targetJanuary 22, 2014 10.43am GMT 2020 goalsThe EU has three existing targets for 2020:a 20% cut in emissions against 1990 levelsa 20% of energy consumption to come from renewable sourcesa 20% increase in energy efficiency – though this was not bindingSince the targets were set in 2007, the EU has already cut emissions by 18% – i.e. has nearly hit the target eight years ahead of schedule – and are likely to be in the region of 21-24% by the end of the decade.That's why some countries, including Germany, were pushing for a more ambitious target of 50% by 2030, rather than the 40% that's likely to be announced in a few minutes.Adam Vaughan (@adamvaughan_uk)GRAPH: How the EU has almost met its 2020 carbon target already: pic.twitter.com/VMUMk1zMtrJanuary 22, 2014Updated at 10.47am GMT 10.29am GMT Energy pricesAnother part of this morning's package is a report on energy prices. The Euractiv news service has seen a draft of the document, which reportedly highlights how uncompetitive the EU's energy prices have become with other regions, in particular the US: Europe’s industrial electricity price is twice that in the US and 20% higher than in China – and that the figure is widening.Similarly, the Ecfin paper finds that Europe has higher real energy prices than its competitors, and that renewable generation increases consumer electricity bills.Support for renewable electricity generation makes up 7.2% of end-user electricity prices for industry and 5.4% for households.But this is considered less of a factor in electricity prices by Ecfin than Europe’s heavy reliance on energy imports – for 54% of its fuel in 2011 – and the index-linking of the majority of gas contracts to oil prices, a phenomenon that has often left them as ‘stranded assets’ that are too expensive to operate.The issue of how much climate change efforts are adding to bills has been a particularly hot topic here in the UK. Prime minister, David Cameron, was reported as saying "get rid of the green crap" on bills, which resulted in tweaks to environmental and social levies on household bills in December.Updated at 10.47am GMT 10.22am GMT 'They are retreating a little'Dr Oliver Geden, from the German Institute for International and Security Affairs, tells the BBC that these 2030 targets are being set in a distinctly different political climate to when the 2020 ones were set seven years ago: We are moving from an ambitious targets and timetables approach to a classical muddling through approach. It is a changed world, it is not just about the financial crisis, it is also the result of changes in international climate policy. There is not the 'we can change the world' optimism, they are retreating a little.Updated at 10.47am GMT 10.16am GMT 40% carbon cutI'm hearing from sources in Europe that a 40% emissions target is what Barroso will announce alongside energy commissioner, Günther Oettinger, and commissioner for climate action, Connie Hedegaard. On the renewable energy front, it looks like there will be a target of 25-27% of energy coming from renewable sources by 2030. But it'll be a non-binding one – i.e. a non-target-target.Updated at 10.47am GMT 10.03am GMT This morning, Europe will lay out its plan to tackle climate change over the next 16 years. All the signs are that we'll see a watering down of ambition compared to the existing set of targets for 2020 on carbon emissions, renewable energy and energy efficiency. Though Tony Blair hailed them at the time as "groundbreaking, bold and ambitious" when they were set in 2007, it's become clear the 2020 target of cutting carbon emissions 20% on 1990 levels was too low – the bloc is on course for more like 25% by 2020.Here's what we're expecting today:A target to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 35% or 40% on 1990 levels by 2030. 40% is considered more likelyThe dropping of a binding renewable energy target, which the renewables industry say would be bad for investment and green groups have called "a sop to those countries like the UK that want to pursue risky or dirty energy from nuclear, coal and shale gas."Details of oversight on shale gas developments (or lack thereof, due to UK lobbying)News on how the EU plans to reform the Emissions Trading Scheme, its flagship policy for reducing carbon emissions, which has been performing badlyThe latest signs are that the European Commission president, José Manuel Barroso, will broker a deal that sees the emissions cut go up to 40% from 35% in previous drafts of the agreement, and drop the renewable target. Fiona Harvey, our environment correspondent, reports in her story that: At least five commissioners are understood by the Guardian to be holding out against the 40% target, encouraged by the UK's stance. The Guardian understands that the European commission's president, Jose Manuel Barroso, is now poised to intervene in the row, and may ditch plans for a renewable energy target in order to seal a deal on the 40% emissions reduction.Ed Davey, the UK energy and climate secretary, will be pleased with that result – it's exactly what he's been calling for.The announcement is expected at 11am GMT (12amCET); it'll be livestreamed here.