Transport for London is consulting the public on its delayed plans for cycle superhighway 5 (CS5), which will run between New Cross and Belgravia and include a fully segregated, two-way section linking Kennington Oval and Pimlico via Vauxhall Bridge. Many cyclists will welcome this realisation of part of Boris Johnson's vision for cycling as it promises to make negotiating the unnerving Vauxhall gyratory system on the Lambeth side of the river safer and easier. TfL's surface transport boss Leon Daniels says:These proposed radical changes would provide a safe and direct route to people travelling through Vauxhall on bicycle, whether they are commuting, exercising or just enjoying being on two wheels. We have worked hard to come up with a scheme to improve facilities for both pedestrians and cyclists throughout this busy area and we would welcome any comments from local residents or road users on these ambitious, but deliverable plans.Those plans won't delight everyone, though. As TfL acknowledges:The new Vauxhall track would require the removal of two sections of general traffic lane and a short section of bus lane, to create the improved conditions for cyclists. TfL's traffic network impact analysis shows that the completed scheme would mean some delays for motorists and bus users on and around the route.How serious might those delays be? How much worse will motor vehicle congestion become as a result of CS5? How many people will be inconvenienced? TfL promises extensive mitigating measures, including "enforcement, traffic management and de-bottlenecking". But these assurances have not satisfied London TravelWatch (LTW), the official transport-users' watchdog. In an unusual move, it has publicly asked TfL to supply more information about the impact on the bus service of both the CS5 proposals and of separate ones for redesigning four junctions around Oval station on the already existing cycle superhighway 7. The changes "could have an impact on nearly 100 million bus passenger journeys every year," says LTW," but it is not clear how everybody will be affected".The roads that would be re-designed at Vauxhall are part of bus routes 2, 36, 77, 87, 88, 185, 196, 344, 360 and 436. Those earmarked for alteration at Oval station carry routes 3, 36, 59, 133, 155, 185, 415, 436 and X68. LTW says these 16 routes account for 98 million bus journeys every year. They've asked TfL for estimates of the increase in journey times should the changes be implemented, how many more buses would be needed to maintain present service levels and the effect on reliability of the loss of bus priority. And although TfL says its plans will help pedestrians too, LTW chair Stephen Locke expresses concern about the proposed use of bus stop "bypasses" for cyclists, which cut through pavements behind bus stop areas. "These will cause conflicts between cyclists and passengers getting on and off the bus," he says.LTW stresses that it hasn't reached a view on the cycle route blueprints and is merely asking for all the information it needs in order to do so on Londoners' behalf, rather than just the stuff about how great they're going to be. Given "cycling mayor" Johnson's political need to win applause for his cycling policies and his lack of plans for expanding London's bus service - its most-used transport mode by far - it is particularly important that this very reasonable request is granted. I understand that Daniels himself has been approached for the data required. LTW says it will publish it as soon as he's supplied it. The CS5 consultation closes on September 14 and the Oval junctions one on August 17. Be sure to have your say.