Once again, I have finished reading A Midsummer Night’s Dream. It gets more marvellous every time. I will read it again if I can. What I certainly won’t be doing is going out to see it, although it is sometimes hard to follow in the text. The two main girls, Hermia and Helena, are often hard to pick apart, a task that gets trickier when, magicked by the forest, they swap their affections for those two rather dreary blokes. Although one of the girls is specified as being as tall as the other is small, in the text that doesn’t show up.But one of the privileges of being increasingly vague, surely, is to skip the detail and spend more time admiring the essential. Shakespeare makes it clear that the higher spirits who rule the forest, and the aristos who come to call, would add up to a dull bunch if the rude mechanicals were not present, and busy with putting on their clumsy but not hopeless play. As a rude mechanical myself, a cobbler of words for a living, I still admire, this late in the day, the way my trade comes out of the text so well. The lounging aristo spectators might patronise the clumsy dramatic endeavours of Bottom and his gang, but without them, they would have nothing to drawl about.The script for the mechanicals’ play is jam-packed with action, like the dream itself, which is enough to turn any reader into a would-be producer. I can still see myself casting a pair of twins to play Puck, so that he can put a girdle around the Earth by exiting stage left and almost instantly entering again stage right. But for that strategy you couldn’t use a star, unless you could clone him.Clive James: ‘I  never made a smarter move than when I changed my name’ For Max Reinhardt’s Hollywood film version of the play, Puck was Mickey Rooney, who still looks perfect in the role. Though he hammed it up rotten, young male actors now should take note of how Rooney observed the pentameter. So did James Cagney as Bottom: he decorated his lines with an insane cackle, as if he were taking over the West Side, but he didn’t once say, “You dirty rat”.But then, the standard of acting in Hollywood has always been tremendous. In my new book Play All, I praise Kevin Spacey for his mastery in House Of Cards, but I should have said that he was even better in the movie Casino Jack. The shameful truth is that I never saw it until the other night, on a TV channel where movies that never made it get a chance to not make it again. Old men often think they’ve seen everything, but it can’t be done.