Every evening, as twilight falls over London, sharp shafts of light will plunge down from the night sky like apocalyptic laser beams, zapping the city’s bridges one by one while an ominous rumbling noise fills the air. “Just as the chiming of church bells once served to gather villagers,” says American architect Liz Diller, “the civic-scale lighting ceremony will celebrate a new form of urban collectivity.”Her proposal is one of the six shortlisted schemes in the mayor of London’s Illuminated River competition, a £20m plan to bring nocturnal sparkle to the dull, grey Thames. Whittled down from 105 entries from across the world, the schemes range from connecting central London’s 17 bridges with linear ribbons of light, to gently illuminating their dark vaulted underbellies with a golden glow.A recurring theme among the designs is an ambition to revive the natural rhythms of the river that have apparently been lost, as if Old Father Thames has somehow been suffocated by the pace of modern life. “We want to reveal the river as a breathing pulsating organism,” declares the entry by Amanda Levete. “The river and its tidal changes remind us that our lives play out, not in the urgent context of minutes or hours but in the slower deeper context of thousands of centuries.”The Eternal Story of the River Thames … the proposal by Amanda Levete, Asif Kapadia and Simon Stephens.Her proposal, developed with filmmaker Asif Kapadia and playwright Simon Stephens, would line the banks of the Thames with one continuous thread of light, designed to illuminate the foreshore of the river at low tide – so mudlarkers can see what they’re stepping in. Whether it is advisable to call attention to the tidal detritus of shopping trolleys and swollen cadavers is moot, but there’s a certain eerie charm to the scheme. As the tide rises, the lighting would shift from the underbellies of the bridges to the sides, and there is a suggestion that this “magical five-mile long cinematic experience” could be “accelerated for special occasions”. You can imagine a high-speed river of light for New Year’s Eve, or a throbbing riparian strobe for the next royal baby.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Concept artwork for Sam Jacob and Dutch artist Simon Heijdens’s design, pictured at London Bridge. Photograph: MRC and Sam Jacob Studio and Simon HeijdensSam Jacob and Dutch artist Simon Heijdens have taken the bridges as launching points for a new hovering river of light, which would stretch from bridge to bridge, forming a ghostly doppelganger of the Thames itself, suspended in the air. Composed of thin slivers of light, this rippling volume would be choreographed by live data read from the river’s movement, “creating an ethereal display that ebbs and flows in register with the Thames”. It’s one of the more poetic of the schemes but, judging by the images, it would effectively create a wall of light between the banks of the river, obstructing the view of the city by night. As with Diller Scofidio + Renfro’s armageddon show, you can imagine it would make for a fun occasional spectacle, but as a permanent feature of the night-time landscape it would grate.It’s a feeling you get from many of the entries, that the designers have jumped at the opportunity to entertain with a ritzy night-time display, rather than quietly shed light on what is already there. Underpinning them, there appears to be a desire for the kind of novelty show embodied in Dubai’s dancing fountains, which gyrate every night beneath the Burj Khalifa to strains of Celine Dion, betraying an urge to reconfigure the city as a site of spectacular happenings with tourists in mind.Blurring Boundaries … the proposal by David Adjaye and 16 international artists.David Adjaye has hatched a cunning ruse and turned himself into the curator of his own linear light gallery, inviting a host of international artists to tackle each of the bridges. Chris Ofili plans to project a design of swirling, vaguely African patterns on to London Bridge, Joana Vasconcelos proposes to bolt some illuminated doilies on to Waterloo Bridge, while Cai Guo-Qiang appears to want to blow up Tower Bridge each night with a barrage of Chinese firecrackers. Adjaye, meanwhile, has carved out more of a masterplanning role, proposing to design a series of 17 pavilions alongside the bridges “to enhance the curatorial vision” and add more clutter to the streetscape.In one of the more straightforward entries, Leo Villareal (who created the Bay Lights in San Francisco) has teamed up with Lifschutz Davidson Sandilands to come up with a pulsating pastel palette of lights designed to “unify the bridges under a single artistic vision”. Throbbing through a cycle of pinks, purples and oranges, it would turn the Thames into a giant linear lava lamp.Six schemes for lighting up London's bridges shortlisted Finally, the most gnomic entry comes from French lighting designers Les Éclairagistes Associés (LEA), working with artist Federico Pietrella, who seem to be proposing a series of lampposts stuck in the riverbed. In a welcome rebuttal of the UK’s increasingly isolationist stance, they note that the lights would be faithful reproductions of different lampposts from around the world, as a symbol of London as “the capital of exchanges between different cultures”.Synchronising the City … the proposal by Diller Scofidio + Renfro.There are some diverting ideas, but, in sum, the whole thing is a very odd endeavour – particularly given that most of these bridges already have lighting schemes of their own, from the twinkling fairytale bulbs of Chelsea Bridge to the bascules of Tower Bridge illuminated as majestic purple rockets. Hannah Rothschild, chair of the Illuminated River Foundation, describes the Thames by night as “a ribbon of darkness … at odds with the ambition to make London a 24-hour city,” but that’s simply not true. The river already shines with a series of conflicting colour schemes that speaks more of London’s chaotic character than a curated nightly show.The project also raises questions about mayor Sadiq Khan’s priorities for the city at a time when there is uncertainty over how long-delayed plans for further crossings in the east of London will be funded, a battle over a proposed pedestrian bridge at Nine Elms (which only one side of the river seems to want), and the previous mayor’s vanity scheme for the garden bridge still to be properly interrogated. Khan is keen to stress that his lighting project will be privately funded (so far £5m has been donated by Peter Baldwin and Lisbet Rausing through the Arcadia Fund, £5m by the Rothschild Foundation and £500,000 by the City of London Corporation, leaving almost £9.5m still to raise), but the garden bridge also began as a low-budget, privately funded endeavour, before it galloped out of control – and there are signs in these entries that the project will expand well beyond buying some bulbs.