I love that moment when everyone is sitting round the table, tucking into bowls of shellfish soup, a wreckage of empty shells, blue and gold and white scattered across the surface, and you come to the broth at the bottom of your bowl. This is where the essence of the soup lies, its heart and soul; the onions, herbs and shellfish juices, their flavours swirling deliciously together. It is only now that you appreciate the point of cooking the onion for those extra few minutes, and where you are rewarded for cooking the pancetta slowly, so its fat forms the backbone of the broth. The onions, herbs and shellfish juices swirl deliciously together You can feed two heartily from a 500g bag of clams or mussels, but we can also bolster the fish and juices to make them go further, turning a bowl of fish soup into a meal. The addition of grated carrots or a root of celeriac, some shredded leeks or sliced mushrooms softened in butter will turn a simple bowl of stock into a nourishing stew. My favourite trick is to cut ragged slices from a sourdough loaf and place them at the base of the bowl before I ladle in the hot soup. Soaked with the precious golden liquor, it is like finding a chest full of treasure at the bottom of the sea. Sometimes I toast the bread first.It has been an abundant week for food shopping. There are some fine melons about, plenty of cantaloupe and some sweet watermelons, too. I look for orange-fleshed melons whose pale green skin is heavily netted with a fine web of rough skin. The more pronounced the netting, the riper the flesh it holds.Such perfect fruit begs for something aromatic to accompany it. This week it was a sorbet I have enjoyed all summer, made simply by stirring a herb sugar into yogurt and freezing it. In this case a shining basil ice, its surface forked through to give the appearance of a glistening granita. Goodbye to summer, hello to autumn.Haddock, clam and celeriac soup      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘A chest full of treasure’: haddock, clam and celeriac soup. Photograph: Jonathan Lovekin for the ObserverAvoid the temptation to stir the soup too much once the haddock has browned, as the fish is likely to break up. If you have any concern that the clams may contain grit, cook them in their own steam in a separate, tightly lidded pan for 2 or 3 minutes, then strain the resulting liquor through a fine sieve before adding the clams and juice to the soup.Serves 2-4celeriac 350glemon ½pancetta 130gbanana shallot 1thyme leaves 1 tbsphaddock 450gfish stock 800mlclams 500gPeel the celeriac, discarding the tangle of roots at the base. Coarsely grate the flesh then toss it in a little lemon juice to prevent it from discolouring.Cube the pancetta, removing any tough skin as you go, then warm it in a heavy-based deep pot over a moderate heat, letting the fat turn gold. If it sticks, add a little oil. Once the pancetta is lightly toasted, stir in the grated celeriac. Peel, halve and roughly chop the onion then stir it in, together with the thyme leaves.Continue cooking for a good 5-10 minutes till the onion, celeriac and pancetta are golden and aromatic. Trim the haddock into generous pieces, removing the grey skin as you go. Push the onion mixture to one side of the pan, then lower the haddock into the other side and leave it for a couple of minutes to colour. When the fish is golden on the underside, carefully turn it over with a palette knife, let it lightly colour then pour in the fish stock.Bring the soup to the boil then immediately lower the heat so the liquor bubbles only gently, and leave for 5 minutes.Scrub and check the clams, discarding any open ones that refuse to shut when tapped on the side of the sink. Introduce the clams to the pot and cover tightly with a lid. As soon as the clams have opened (a matter of 2 minutes or so) correct the seasoning with salt and black pepper (you may not need much salt) then ladle it into deep bowls.Melon with basil and lemon sorbetI mentioned this brilliantly easy sorbet in passing a few weeks ago, but feel it deserves more detail. I find the juice from unwaxed, organic lemons to be softer and more aromatic and worth the extra expense. No need for an ice-cream freezer – just a whisk and a plastic freezer box.Serves 6caster sugar 225gbasil leaves 50gwater 250mllemon juice 2 tbspnatural yogurt 500mlcharentais or cantaloupe melon for 4blackcurrants or blueberries 250gPut the sugar into the bowl of a food processor and add half of the basil. Process until the sugar turns bright green. Transfer the herb sugar to a small, deep pan, pour in the water and warm it over a moderate heat until the sugar dissolves. Fork through the surface of the sorbet to give the appearance of a glistening granita Remove the basil syrup from the heat. Cool the syrup quickly, speeding matters up if you wish by pouring the syrup into a bowl and stirring it over ice. When the mixture is cool, tip the lemon juice and yogurt into a blender, add the reserved basil leaves and process until smooth and pale green. Stir into the basil syrup and combine thoroughly. Transfer to a shallow, plastic freezer box and freeze for 4 hours or overnight.Halve the melon, scrape out the seeds and cut it into thick wedges. Remove the sorbet from the freezer and draw a fork through it to break it into small crystals. Spoon over the melon, add a few blackcurrants or blueberries and serve immediately.Email Nigel at nigel.slater@observer.co.uk or follow him on Twitter @NigelSlater