Neil Jordan, directorThe last two films I’d directed in America had been bruising. If I couldn’t get The Crying Game made, I intended to give up directing and return to writing. The provocative nature of my script – which addressed the Troubles, race, sexuality and gender confusion – made it hard to finance, but I was thrilled to just be making something I believed in. The opening tracking shot of the fairground, from the bridge over the River Nanny in Laytown, had great personal resonance. I grew up in County Meath and spent much of my childhood playing beside that bridge. My father died while fishing underneath it.  Forest Whitaker immersed himself in the role, even if he didn’t lose quite enough weight I’d known Stephen Rea, who plays Fergus the IRA terrorist, for years. He’s the perfect actor, able to register three emotions at once. People objected to the casting of Forest Whitaker, an American, because there are so few parts for British black actors, but for me there was no other choice. He immersed himself in the role of the English squaddie, including the London accent – even if he didn’t lose quite enough weight.Finding someone to play Dil, his transvestite lover, was trickier. Stanley Kubrick told me it would be impossible to find a black guy who could play a woman. It had to be an unknown, so we searched the London drag club scene, until Derek Jarman suggested Jaye Davidson. He’d never acted before and was so nervous. The first time we filmed him, in the building site scene, he was shaking like a leaf. To see him gradually inhabit the part was remarkable.Jaye was a strong guy, thin and beautiful, but male. As he kept saying to me: “I’m not a transvestite – I’m a gay man.” But Sandy Powell, our costume designer, was smart. Finding similarities in men’s and women’s clothing, like cut-off jeans and T-shirts, she dressed him in a way that was so undemonstrably transvestite that it became a seamless part of the character.The film was nominated for six Oscars, with me winning for best script. We grossed over $60m, but I didn’t feel vindicated, simply proud we’d made this lovely thing.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We searched the London drag club scene’ … Jaye Davidson as Dil with Stephen Rea as Fergus. Photograph: Allstar/Channel 4Miranda Richardson, actorWhen Neil offered me the part of Jude the IRA terrorist, I said: “Are you sure?” I doubted whether I, as an Englishwoman, could do a believable Irish accent. My character was quite scary, though, even if her transformation in the latter section – from a blonde to a dark-haired femme fatale – was quite funny. Given she was supposed to be in disguise, she stood out like a sore thumb, looking more like a Samurai.Some people have pointed to the film noirish parallels in some of the imagery, but we were really thinking of Alfred Hitchcock. Vertigo is Neil’s favourite film, I think, and that whole thing about disguise, not knowing who is a person is or who you can trust, is played out in the film. He was very open with the cast and trusted us. I even ended up driving the car in the getaway scene, because our stunt driver was being too mimsy. “OK, I’ll do it!” I piped up – and suddenly getting the tyres to squeal was no longer a problem. We had an armourer on set to help me with the technicalities of brandishing a gun. I just wanted it to look as if I had at least held one before. And I got flak from IRA sympathisers for giving such an unflattering portrayal of a terrorist. Isn’t that wonderful? I spent a few days in Belfast soaking up the atmosphere. Stephen introduced me to his wife, Dolours Price, who had been a member of the Provisional IRA and a hunger striker, and who was a real heroine there. We went out to a pub, which was an extraordinary experience. She was treated like a film star.• The Crying Game is available on DVD and Blu-ray from the BFI.