The film editor Jim Clark, who has died aged 84, was justly celebrated among British and American film-makers. Normally it is the fate of a film editor – someone who plays an essential aesthetic and technical part in the creation of a film – to be ignored by the general public and even critics. But in 2011 Clark blew his anonymous cover by publishing Dream Repairman: Adventures in Film Editing, a lively and revelatory memoir of his days in the cutting room working on movies by, notably, John Schlesinger, Stanley Donen, Mike Leigh and Roland Joffé. It was his editing of two films by the latter – The Killing Fields (1984) and The Mission (1986) – that gained him an Oscar and an Oscar nomination respectively. He also won Baftas for the same two movies. In 2005, Clark received a lifetime career achievement award from the American Cinema Editors organisation.Award ceremonies are among the rare times when the editing of a film is mentioned. Yet, to be fair to the critics, it is difficult to judge how much is contributed by the director and how much by the editor. Also, the dominant form for mainstream movies is invisible editing – making the film so smooth between shots that the cuts are hardly noticeable. The mantra in Hollywood was that the less you noticed the editing, the better.Clark was certainly visible. Schlesinger, with whom Clark worked on seven films, described him as someone “who has saved my bacon many times”. One such instance was when Clark stepped in as “creative consultant” on the “unreleasable” Midnight Cowboy (1969), completely recutting it and adding the song Everybody’s Talkin’, which won a Grammy.When David Puttnam became head of Columbia Studios in Hollywood in 1986, he persuaded Clark to come to Los Angeles as executive vice-president because he valued his overall movie sense beyond editing. “People do come to me for advice on scripts, and looking at cuts, and seeing films and advising and commenting,” Clark remarked.The novelist and screenwriter William Boyd found Clark indispensable on The Trench (1999), a first world war drama, the first and only feature Boyd directed. “Jim is a man renowned for his candour: he does not pull punches, he does not mince his words, he is fearlessly honest,” he said. “He never said very much, but from time to time we would receive terse notes: ‘I need another close-up’, ‘This scene won’t cut together’ and so forth. It was, I see now, a benign on-the-job learning curve for me, and I came to understand a huge amount about how to shoot a film professionally.”Clark was born in Boston, Lincolnshire, the son of George, managing director of a printing firm, and Florence (nee Deal). His grandfather had shares in two local cinemas, meaning that as a boy Clark had a free pass to go anytime he liked. This fuelled an early interest in cinema, as did his possession of a Pathé Ace 9.5mm film projector, for which he hired films. “One day it occurred to me that in some way the scenes changed from one angle to another, and I became interested in the reason why,” he said. “Then I became interested in the manipulation of images to tell a story.” After attending Oundle school in Northamptonshire, Clark worked for three years in his father’s business, all the time determined to work in films in some capacity.His chance came when he joined Ealing Studios as a cutting-room assistant in the early 1950s. His first sole editing credit was on One Wish Too Many (1956) for the Children’s Film Foundation. In 1960 he was fortunate enough to be recommended to Donen, who was starting his British period with Surprise Package, which appeared that year. Clark continued to work with Donen on The Grass Is Greener (1960) and Charade (1963). With Jack Clayton, Clark did some of his best work, on The Innocents (1961) and The Pumpkin Eater (1964). But it was his long association with Schlesinger that was the most fruitful, beginning with Darling (1965) and ending with Honky Tonk Freeway (1981). In between came Far From the Madding Crowd (1967), Midnight Cowboy (1969), The Day of the Locust (1975), Marathon Man (1976) and Yanks (1979).In the 70s Clark tried his hand at directing, having previously only directed The Christmas Tree for the Children’s Film Foundation in 1966. Liberated from the strictures of directors, Clark made two leering sex comedies with suggestive titles: Every Home Should Have One (1970), starring goggle-eyed Marty Feldman, and Rentadick (1972). Better was Madhouse (1974), an enjoyable horror movie featuring Vincent Price, spoofing his movie persona.In 1999 Clark took on the task of editing The World Is Not Enough, the 19th in the James Bond series, starring Pierce Brosnan. “Somehow I thought I’d never end up editing a James Bond movie,” he said. “I realised how far they had come since the days of Connery. Very polished high-gloss techno yarns. The thought of attaching myself to such a venture was slightly awesome, not being accustomed to editing action movies, but therein lay the fun.” In vast contrast was Clark’s editing on Leigh’s modestly budgeted Vera Drake (2004) and on Happy-Go-Lucky (2008).In 1955, Clark married Jessica Andrew, who already had a son, David. They had a daughter, Kate. Jessica died in 1957, and in 1963 Clark married Laurence Méry, who had been his assistant on Charade. She survives him, as does their daughter Sybil, along with Kate; David predeceased him.• James Arthur Clark, film editor, born 24 May 1931; died 25 February 2016