My heart goes out to Tommy Corbyn, 23-year-old son of Labour leader Jeremy, who has become a victim of the nation’s most zeitgeisty crime: he got his mobile snatched out of his hand by a guy on a moped. It appears to have been just one man: the classic setup for this caper is two – one driving, one riding (and taking). That was the case when it happened to me.Like Tommy, I was walking along the pavement in north London, staring at my smartphone like a bovine idiot. Then the bike came up behind me; the passenger grabbed it and they roared off. And I’m so used to my 12-year-old nicking my phone that in that crucial microsecond I didn’t properly resist. The shaming thing is that it felt like being unplugged.Tommy says that the thief was “sad” and “desperate”. Maybe. Or maybe the thief made a shrewd and rational assessment that burglary these days is actually difficult and un-lucrative compared with zooming around grabbing people’s smartphones: the victims can’t phone for help – hee, hee! – and the handsets can be flogged for £50 each. Every victim of this says the same thing: they were texting. I said it myself. But actually they are more likely to have been doing what I was really doing: staring at social media in a stupid trance. The lesson is keep your phone in your pocket.Beauty and the Beste I have been gobbling up the BBC’s tremendous new TV adaptation of Evelyn Waugh’s Decline and Fall, with wonderful performances from Jack Whitehall as the hapless Pennyfeather and David Suchet as Dr Fagan. I first read this when I was 12 (without understanding how exactly schoolmaster Grimes got “in the soup”) and many times since. I thought I knew my way around its elegant satire.But to my shame, I realise I’ve been getting something wrong all these years. The surname of the pupil Peter Beste-Chetwynde and his mother Margot Beste-Chetwynde – like the non-U oik that I am, I’ve been pronouncing that to rhyme with “test get chinned”. But now I realise that it should be pronounced “beast cheating”: a sly, almost subliminal joke there, for those classy enough to know the rule.But that’s English for you: knowing how to, for example, say Magdalen College and when and where to spell it with an “e” on the end. I thought I knew about this, including of course the vital importance of airily shrugging at the absurdity of class-based rules that you have mastered. But you can always get tripped up.Tartan with a heart on If Scotland leaves the UK, how important will the tartan be? Will it become more important – or decisively rejected as a kitschy made-up tradition originating with Queen Victoria? It was intriguing to see the reports about Paul Burrell, butler to the late Princess Diana, and his recent wedding to his partner, Graham Cooper. Burrell wore a Highlands-style outfit with a tartan of his own design. This included two grey lines to represent his sons, Alex and Nick, and a grey motif that symbolises Diana’s famous description of him as her rock.There were also two shades of green in the tartan, which, according to the Scottish Tartans Authority official register, “celebrated his appearance on the TV programme I’m A Celebrity …” – the two shades evidently denote the hues of foliage in the jungle. I think Burrell’s tartan is rather witty and creative. But I’m not sure exactly how seriously I can take tartan from now on.