 Everyone is talking about Shakespeare and we would like to introduce our children to the stories but we also anxious not to put them off to enjoying the plays later. Are there any versions of the plays which are suitable for six to 11-year-olds?It’s hard to avoid Shakespeare in this 400th anniversary year of his death. And no one should want to do since the UK wide celebrations give everyone to chance to revisit the stories of the plays in their traditional form and also in the many adaptations of them in other media. How to draw… William Shakespeare In most cases, thinking of Shakespeare as “boring” is an unfortunate hangover from school. Studying Macbeth, A Midsummer Night’s Dream, Othello or Romeo and Juliet over two years for the sole purpose of being tested on it may have cast Shakespeare’s plays in a bad light and given them the unjustified reputation for being both irrelevant and dull. In fact, nothing could be further from the truth and major productions of the great plays such as Peter Brook’s A Midsummer Night’s Dream or Baz Luhrmann’s film of Romeo and Juliet or Harriet Walter’s all female cast version of Henry IV show the amazing flexibility of the stories and the universal appeal of their themes. Malorie Blackman: 'Othello was the first thing I read that actually featured a black character' Unsurprisingly, the big themes of love, jealousy, revenge and family feuds were not that different around 400 years ago; although, how they were played out was! A belief in the supernatural and the allure of other worlds where magical things can happen appears to be equally timeless, while Titania and Oberon’s fairy war over the changeling boy is an imaginative take on any parental feud. Obviously, some of these themes are on the old side for six to 11 year olds, but with imaginative adaption they can become quite manageable. In Pamela Butchart and Thomas Fincham’s hilarious To Wee or Not To Wee, Izzy (star of the Baby Alien series) is totally at home with the stories from Shakespeare. Having rattled through the gore of Macbeth, which her friends love, she moves onto A Midsummer’s Night Dream (a character called Bottom is always good for a laugh), Romeo and Juliet, and then Hamlet, where the skull proves to be the centre of attraction. For children reading to themselves, the allusions to the original plays will give even seven year olds a notion of the stories and they certainly won’t be put off. Marcia Williams’s Mr Shakespeare’s Plays takes a more serious approach and locates Shakespeare and the stories firmly in his own time in a series of gorgeous strip cartoon versions of Romeo and Juliet, Hamlet, A Midsummer Night’s Dream, Macbeth, Julius Caesar, The Winter’s Tale and The Tempest, all of which are set on the stage of the famous Globe theatre. Marcia Williams’s dialogue boxes include quotes from the plays which make an excellent early introduction to the language of Shakespeare. Although it removes them from their origins as performances, reading prose versions of the plays aloud conveys the plots easily without young listeners feeling that the original language is challenging. The Usborne Illustrated stories from Shakespeare includes simple retellings of six of the play and also provides useful background material about Shakespeare’s life and the history of the time.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Geraldine McCaughrean’s Stories from Shakespeare is for readers and listeners who are aged 10+ and it therefore includes retellings of some of the more complex plays. Among the 10 are the obvious favourites such as Romeo and Juliet and A Midsummer’s Night Dream, but also Julius Caesar, Twelfth Night, Othello and King Lear. Although written in her own prose, Geraldine McCaughrean also ensures that young readers are clear that these were originally plays by setting out a cast list at the beginning of each story. She also ensures that the poetic language of Shakespeare’s original versions is not forgotten by including quotes – many of which are the ones that have become almost every day phrases - from the original plays. Award-winning children’s author Leon Garfield rewrote Shakespeare’s original plays in versions that are close to the original spirit of the plays but also infused with his own powerful narrative voice. Shakespeare’s Stories, illustrated in glorious full-colour illustrations by Michael Foreman, contains twelve plays – all of which are told in florid versions of the stories which plumb the depth of Shakespeare’s many-layered plots and characters showing just how rich the stories are even without their original language or the possibilities of performance. How to make… a quill pen on Shakespeare Day For some background to Shakespeare himself Tony Bradman’s The Boy and the Globe, illustrated by Tom Morgan-Jones, brings the playwright and the world of his theatre into sharp relief in a story with a strong sense of the past that brings the stories to life and will kindle young readers interest in why Shakespeare mattered 400 years ago and still matters today. Top 10 Shakespeare books for children If any doubts about why Shakespeare is so worth remembering, Michael Rosen’s What’s So Special about Shakespeare? will provide all the answers. Illustrated by Sarah Naylor, it includes a story of four of the plays as well as a wealth of information about Shakespeare’s life and a timeline to remind all of why we are celebrating his work in 2016.Do you know any fabulous Shakespeare books that need to be added to this Book Doctor blog? Tell us on Twitter @GdnChildrensBks or by emailing childrens.books@theguardian.com and we’ll add them. You can also use the same email address to ASK the Book Doctor a books related question.Your ideasMike Shuttleworth (@mike_sh)@GdnChildrensBks @Pamela_Butchart @MichaelRosenYes Don't miss Just Macbeth by @AndyGbooks and @terrydbooks. https://t.co/lhZroYXkj5April 25, 2016Jenny Linford (@jennylinford)@GuardianBooks @jeccleshare @GdnChildrensBks The witty and humorous Stratford Boys by Jan Marks is a book my son loved. #ShakespeareApril 25, 2016Mairead Hearne (@swirlandthread)@GuardianBooks @jeccleshare @GdnChildrensBks My 2 kids looove Horrible Histories. GREAT range of Shakespeare books. Defo should be included💟April 25, 2016