Some 20% of American adults feel the burden of information overload, with that figure at least doubling among those from poorer or less educated backgrounds, according to a report released today by the Pew Research Center.“The large majority of Americans do not feel that information overload is a problem for them,” the authors of the report said, pointing out that fewer Americans feel overloaded now than they did in 2006, when the figure was 27%. Furthermore, 77% of US adults say they like having so much information at their fingertips. After 15 years of studying the problem of information overload I was so overloaded I had to find something else to doJonathan Spira, author of Overload “We thought it was surprising that the rate was so low and that it has fallen fairly substantially in the last decade,” said senior researcher John Horrigan. He suggested that the decline in people reporting information overload is due to the increased availability of digital access tools such as tablet computers, smartphones and broadband.“Even though there are greater flows of information flying around, we think the fact that people have more tools to help them allows them to deal with it,” he said.However, the sense of “information overwhelm” is made worse by the digital divide. “Those who are more likely to feel information overload have less technology and are poorer, less well-educated and older,” the authors said.Forty-five percent of people with high school degrees sometimes feel stressed about the amount of information they have to follow, compared with 39% of those with college degrees or more. Similarly, 47% of those whose household income is less than $30,000 sometimes feel stressed by the information they have to keep track of compared with 39% of those earning more than $75,000.The problem becomes even more acute in specific situations when institutions such as banks, government agencies or schools impose high information demands on people.“There are some members of society that don’t have the range of tools that many of us do. They are the ones that feel the stress. It suggests that institutions might want to be more patient with parts of the population who may not be as digitally sophisticated,” Horrigan said.“Information overload is a terrible scourge of modern society,” said Jonathan Spira, author of Overload, a book that examines the cost of the problem to businesses. “It has caused people to lose their ability to manage thoughts and ideas, contemplate, and even reason and think.“After 15 years of studying the problem of information overload I was so overloaded I had to find something else to do.” Spira believes, contrary to Pew’s research, that the problem is getting worse and that it is illustrated by the current epidemic of fake news. “That’s an information overload problem. There is so much information out there that people are no longer able to distinguish between legitimate information and fake news.”Information overload is not without its upsides, according to Pew’s report. “People’s abilities to access information online can open new doors to knowledge, facilitate connections with friends and make all sorts of transactions convenient,” researchers said. 