Dying zoos often breed giraffes and other "exotic" animals in captivity and create babies in an effort to keep drawing in paying visitors – yet often there's nowhere to put the offspring as they grow (Copenhagen zoo defends killing of healthy giraffe, 11 February). A zoo is just an animal prison dating back to a time when only intrepid explorers had seen animals from other continents. This death should be a wake-up call for anyone who still harbours the illusion that zoos serve any purpose beyond incarcerating intelligent animals for profit. Giraffes rarely die of old age in captivity, and had Marius not been euthanised this week, he would have lived out his short life as a living exhibit, stranded in a cold climate, thousands of miles away from his true home. Breeding programmes serve no true conservation purpose because giraffes and other animals born in zoos are rarely, if ever, returned to their natural habitats. They are treated as baby-makers, while giving the public a false sense that something wonderful has happened. Peta urges everyone who genuinely cares about giraffes and all the other individuals serving life sentences in zoos to avoid these places and instead donate to campaigns that actually protect animals in their native habitats.Ben WilliamsonPeople for the Ethical Treatment of Animals• Perhaps Chris Packham is a little naive in asking "why was this animal born in the first place if it was destined to be unwanted" (G2, 11 February). Times are hard, lions are expensive to feed, so why not grow your own? Everyone should understand where food comes from. If school trips included visits to factory farms for animals and poultry, followed by a jaunt to the abattoir, I suspect demand for meat would fall dramatically. Then we could afford to rear and slaughter our animals more humanely. Humanely? There's a funny word. Discuss.Elizabeth HillGuildford• Did no one ask Copenhagen zoo this question: if the aim is to avoid inbreeding, why not just castrate Marius?W Stephen GilbertCorsham, Wiltshire• The public execution of Marius and his equally public consumption by lions does rather make Danish noir crime on BBC4 easier to understand, psychologically.Ken BaldryLondon• It's funny we condemn Marius's death while daily inflicting violence and death on chickens, pigs, cows, sheep and fish. We also terribly exploit dairy cows and egg-laying hens before sending them to the same slaughter house.Mark RichardsBrighton• So, Prince William had to go to Spain to find some deer to shoot (Report, 9 February). Had he done a little research, he could have saved the air fare, and performed a useful function closer to home. The deer population of north-east Somerset could be justifiably classed as a pest species. For three or four years they have been stripping fruit trees and destroying vegetable plots with impunity. Even the staunchest defenders of the deer population admit that numbers are out of control, and it doesn't seem to be anyone's job to address the matter. William wouldn't need a guide to search them out for him. We can see them from the kitchen window in the middle of the day. He's welcome to sit here with a cup of tea, and blast away at them to his heart's content.Mike ScottBath