If you’re feeling unsettled by the Brexit/Trump future, consider this: since the 1950s humans have ramped up the pressure on the planet to such an extent that we have very likely propelled ourselves into a new geological epoch – the Anthropocene. Now that’s what geologists call change. The thing that freaks me out is that it’s rarely mentioned.To unwrap that: for the past 10,000 years or so, we have hung out comfortably in what we call the Holocene epoch. During this period we have been able to rely on the Earth’s systems to dampen the effects of “forcings”. These are different factors that affect the Earth’s climate, such as volcanic eruptions and solar variations.When the system does well, the Earth’s resilience to these factors is high. But over the past 50 years, our influence has eroded them so rapidly that we humans have become a geological force in our own right, driving us toward the Anthropocene.Beset by planetary tipping points, we now risk flipping nature into new “operating zones”. Swedish scientist Johan Rockström has mapped out a “safe operating space for humanity” to avoid these disastrous tipping points, distilled into a book,  Big World Small Planet.Climate change is just one of these boundaries. We must transition away from a fossil-fuel world economy in the next 25-30 years, but because our systems are so interconnected, other boundaries, such as ocean acidification and extinction rates, are critical, too.To curtail these negative trends we need to think differently. Now that the party is over, it’s all about respecting the planet’s boundaries of the Holocene, which after all allowed us to exist happily for many years. There’s no place like home, we need to keep it that way.The big picture: generate electricity at the gym      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Power cycle: Marrakech residents try out a green energy outdoor gym. Photograph: PR Company HandoutEnergy harnessed from exercise is a huge untapped resource. At Cop22, the UN’s Global Climate Change Summit in Marrakech, delegates at a green gym provided by the Great Outdoor Gym Company turned their workouts into green watts. Now four outdoor gym machines have been launched which generate electricity as you exercise. The faster you cycle, the quicker you can charge up your phone.Well dressed: design your own fashion range      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Space suits: Awaytomars. Photograph: GLEESONPAULINO/Gleeson PaulinoAwaytomars, a London and Lisbon-based clothing company that has been described as ‘the future of fashion’, takes collective design to the next level. Anyone who fancies being a fashion designer can submit their drawings to the website – and don’t worry if they’re not very polished. ‘Drawing skills aren’t important,’ is the reassuring advice. ‘Just your ideas.’ If they like it, Awaytomars will bring your concept to life.Technical experts create the physical prototypes and each design is crowdfunded to go into (ethical) production. Finally, the finished item appears on the sales portal where you can buy or pre-order. It’s not the cheapest fashion (T-shirts run at £48), but it might be one of the most exciting.Join the community, post ideas to the collective moodboard and submit your fashion sketches at awaytomars.com.Email Lucy at lucy.siegle@observer.co.uk or follow her on Twitter @lucysiegle