The new interactive Crystal Maze experience in London is extraordinary. Teams of friends are handed bomber jackets and led through an almost perfect replica of the long-defunct Channel 4 gameshow, spending an hour solving puzzles and winning crystals before leaping for tickets inside what’s ultimately a greenhouse with a fan inside it. It’s so much fun, and the attention to detail so spot-on, that it’s already impossible to get a ticket until March 2017.Similarly, the CITV show Knightmare has also enjoyed a revival, albeit in the form of the performance-led stageshow Knightmare Live. I took part in Knightmare Live two years ago – guiding a dungeoneer through various rooms – and I can faithfully state that it is exactly like the TV show, if the TV show had included 200 pissed adults going “Weeeeey!” every time you told anyone to sidestep anywhere.Clearly, this is the future of nostalgia. Take a beloved television programme from 20 years ago, turn it into an interactive game that people can buy tickets for, then rake in all the piles of cash. With that in mind, here are the shows that should be turned into live interactive experiences next.Fun House      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   All you’d need is a handful of frightwigs … Fun House. Photograph: ITVThis seems like a no-brainer, given that it was basically The Crystal Maze for kids. You play a few games with slime, drive a go-kart around a track then you hurtle round an obstacle course grabbing tokens for Sega Master Systems and fingerpaint. People would go mad to take part in this, and costs would be low. All you’d need is a corrupt Gambado security guy who’d let you in afterhours and a handful of nylon Pat Sharp frightwigs. Perfect.Get Your Own BackSimilar to Fun House, this is basically an opportunity to slosh about in slime for an hour or so. However, it’s the show’s underlying theme of revenge-by-gunge that would be the real draw here. Instead of teachers or parents, imagine getting your own back on your boss, your MP, that arsehole who blocked you on Twitter, or any of those tourists who stood on the left on that escalator and made you miss your train home. There is no limit to the amount of money I’d spend to publicly humiliate those people. Plus, given that he mainly now spends his days scouring West Sussex for inflatable bananas, Dave Benson Phillips would definitely still host.Supermarket Sweep      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Put thing in the trolley – now!’ … Dale Winton in Supermarket Sweep. Photograph: ITVImagine the fun you’d have replicating Supermarket Sweep for a new generation of adults. Get a warehouse, fill it with things, then let people run around putting those things in a trolley. “PUT THINGS IN THE TROLLEY!” you’d shout. “PUT THINGS IN THE TROLLEY FASTER! DO IT FASTER!” Then you’d take the trolley off them and send them home. £50 a ticket.BullseyeI know what you’re thinking. You’re thinking “Bullseye? Isn’t that just darts?” Well yes it is, and you can pretty much play darts anywhere you like for free. However, get a guy to stand next to the dartboard and moo whenever a dart goes in and you’ll be able to charge gullible nostalgic idiots £20 a throw. It’s basically a license to print money.Challenge AnnekaHey, unthinkingly nostalgic millennials, here’s your challenge. Put on this unflattering jumpsuit and build my conservatory. You’ve got 12 hours and it costs £100 per ticket. Look at you go! You’re just like Anneka Rice! Nostalgia! Cash upfront please.