Anyone who has done much dining out over the past 10 years will have likely noticed a change coming over the people preparing their food. No longer a phalanx of indistinguishable figures in whites and toques, chefs have shrugged off the uniform and are hellbent on declaring their individuality. They do this in a variety of ways but none more striking than the tattoo, which has spread from biceps to hands, from chests to necks and faces. Some, as these illustrations from new book Knives & Ink document, refer to food (pigs, cakes and shellfish abound); others have personal meanings that benefit from a little explanation.Of course, chefs are far from the only ones with tattoos these days, nor is the tattooed chef anything new. As food impresario Andrea Petrini points out, Paul Bocuse has been sporting a coq gaulois on his bicep since his stint in a US army hospital during the second world war. “A lot of chefs have been wearing tattoos for ages, but they weren’t showing it,” Petrini says. “They were hanging around with their funny hats and long-sleeved chef’s jackets – now they’re wearing short sleeves.” They are also, thanks to the rise of the open kitchen and a general easing of restaurant formalities, more visible to diners than before. If you’re offended at the prospect of being catered to by a chef with a pig’s head on his throat, best look away now. Brian GroszPrivate chef and cooking instructor at Ronin Cooking, Brooklyn, NY My grandfather raised my dad in Yokohama before the family moved to Washington Heights. They were gaijin [foreigners], but Japanese art was omnipresent in my childhood. Now, it’s omnipresent on my body. Cooking is one of the most beautiful gifts you can give to someone. It embodies love, patience and balance. Plating, too, is tantamount, just as important as the permanent placement of a tattoo. Solei HoExecutive chef at North Light, Portland, Oregon       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Illustration: Wendy MacNaughtenThis tattoo is something I’d planned for a long time. It signifies a lot of things: my love of great ingredients, the resourcefulness of my ancestors, and the path that I chose for myself, both artistically and professionally. It’s a paddy crab, which is a classic Vietnamese ingredient. The crab is a pest to rice farmers in Vietnam, but also serves as an immediate source of wild protein for them. They eat it fried, boiled, and even use fermented crab as a condiment in green papaya salad. It’s important to me to remember where I came from, and the humble food that still sustains and satisfies people everywhere.Daniel Francis TowerChef at 30Boltwood, Amherst, Massachusetts      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Illustration: Wendy MacNaughtenI realised throughout my career as a chef that my love for the swine had grown. I knew the homage needed to be front and centre. Plus, some of my favourite preparations come from the head. As chefs, we must honour, respect and utilise every part we can. All hail the swine.Michelle PusateriOwner-chef at Nana Joes Granola, San Francisco, California      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Illustration: Wendy MacNaughtenI was about six months sober when I got this tattoo and feeling incredible: clear-minded, focused, no longer anxiously wondering when that next drink was going to come. A burden had been lifted from my shoulders. I already had a banner tattoo that read “Bake or Die”, and I decided my new lifestyle called for another one. “Sweet n’ Sober” seemed to fit, but I wanted to wait just a bit longer to make sure of my commitment. Four months later, I was back under the gun. That was almost 10 years ago. There are so many things I wouldn’t have accomplished without being sober: my marriage, my business. Life has a funny way of trying to teach us lessons and giving us the best direction to grow and prosper. All we have to do is listen, implement and create.Dominique CrennOwner-chef at Atelier Crenn and Petit Crenn, San Francisco, California      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Illustration: Wendy MacNaughtenA few years ago I had an accident. A very scary one. I was a hotel chef at the time, working seven days a week. I came home very late from work one night, exhausted, and while I was in the shower I slipped and sliced a tendon in my leg wide open. I lost consciousness for 15, 20 minutes. When I came to, blood was everywhere. I could have lost my life, but somehow I didn’t. I called 911 and an ambulance arrived before I bled out. Still, I was bedridden for three months. I couldn’t move. So this tattoo reminds me to celebrate the moment I lived. I wanted something that spoke to the mix of struggle and hope, dream and reality. It’s about doing anything in life that you put your heart to, knowing that it doesn’t matter where you are in your life. Any moment is the right moment, because none of us know how many moments we have left.Knives & Ink by Isaac Fitzgerald and Wendy MacNaughton (Bloomsbury £14.99). Click here to buy a copy for £12.29 from the Guardian Bookshop