Many of us, monthly, put something modest aside for the future. Then we think no more about it, busy as we are with the present. But that disconnection from our savings has to change, and fast, as the nation's private pensions may just offer our best hope of averting catastrophic climate change.Although the pension system's sole purpose is to help us take care of the future the current system is willfully blind about what that future holds and the implications, in particular, of a changing climate.Actually, it is worse than a case of willful blindness. The investment industry, today, is largely pushing in the wrong direction, driven by powerful incentives to maximise returns in the short term. We've seen all this before. In the run up to the financial crisis, many asset managers responsible for our pensions urged banks to take on extra leverage and pursue more risky lending policies. Today, with banks laid low, oil, gas and mining companies have taken top spots in the FTSE index and asset managers push these companies for news on reserve replacements, only satisfied when fresh sources of burnable carbon are banked. As a means of wealth accumulation this is sheer insanity.There are powerful interests in favour of the status quo in the UK's pensions and investment industry. Understanding and challenging those interests is a task every bit as important as developing a coherent, climate-aware alternative proposition for the investment of the nation's savings. We do not need a mass movement in this space but what we're crying out for is a small cadre of citizen savers who will agitate relentlessly for a re-think in the boardrooms of our largest pension funds.Pension funds have strict legal duties to act in the best interests of their beneficiaries. Citizen savers should call them out on this. Is it compatible with the best interests of a 25-year-old pension fund member for Shell to pour shareholders' capital into 40-year-long investments in the Canadian tar sands? Such investments look financially risky and are certainly environmentally irresponsible. On both counts, the interests of young savers look ill served.Our pension funds can and should be powerful allies in the fight against climate change. Among other things they should demand a halt to corporate funding of lobbying against climate change regulation; allocate capital into low-carbon infrastructure around the world; urge companies in all sectors to invest in energy saving techniques and technologies; and as a matter of financial prudence take a close interest in companies' preparation for the impacts of a changing climate.50 months is enough time to make the shift required and a handful of the best pension funds are already turning in the right direction. The catalyst for deeper, faster change will be pension savers willing to take the fight to their own funds. The search for those vital people is on.• Catherine Howarth is the CEO of FairPensions