Warren Beatty says Academy president Cheryl Boone Isaacs should “publicly clarify” what happened during Sunday night’s best picture presentation, after La La Land was mistakenly read out as best picture winner by Beatty and Faye Dunaway.Trump says Oscar mix-up was because show was 'focused so hard on politics' Beatty declined to comment further on the debacle that led to him and co-presenter Faye Dunaway to name La La Land as best picture winner rather than Moonlight. Instead, he urged the Academy to answer questions.“I feel it would be more appropriate for the president of the Academy, Cheryl Boone Isaacs, to publicly clarify what happened as soon as possible,” said Beatty.Representatives for the Academy didn’t immediately comment on Tuesday, but speaking to the New Yorker, Boone Isaacs said her initial feeling in the aftermath of the first best picture announcement was “horror”. “I just thought, What? What? I looked out and I saw a member of PriceWaterhouse coming on the stage, and I was, like: ‘Oh, no, what — what’s happening? What what WHAT? What could possibly …?’ And then I just thought: ‘Oh, my God, how does this happen? How. Does. This. Happen?’ And it was such a wonderful show.”Since Sunday’s broadcast, the Academy has largely left the explaining to the accounting firm PwC, which is in charge of tabulating the winners. The firm said its partner Brian Cullinan mistakenly handed the presenters the wrong envelope.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  La La Land mistakenly named best picture“We deeply regret the mistakes that were made during the presentation of the best picture category during last night’s Oscar ceremony,” PwC said. “We apologise to the entire cast and crew of La La Land and Moonlight whose experience was profoundly altered by this error. We salute the tremendous grace they displayed under the circumstances. To all involved – including our presenters Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway, the film-makers, and our fans watching worldwide – we apologise.”The Academy said it spent Sunday night and the following day “investigating the circumstances” to “determine what actions are appropriate going forward”.Neither PwC nor the academy has commented on whether Cullinan’s use of social media was a factor in the error. The PwC partner tweeted a behind-the-scenes photo of best-actress winner Emma Stone moments before the best picture announcement. The tweet was later deleted.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Moonlight stars say Oscars blunder ‘disrespectful to La La Land’Oscars: Academy 'deeply regrets' best film fiasco as accountant is blamed Cullinan and PwC colleague Martha Ruiz carried briefcases to the awards on the red carpet, each holding an identical set of envelopes for the show’s 24 categories. The accountants are also supposed to memorise the winners. During the telecast, the accountants were stationed in the Dolby theatre wings, one stage left and one stage right, to give presenters their category’s envelope before they went on stage.Most presenters entered stage right, where Cullinan was posted and where he handed Beatty and Dunaway the errant envelope. Yet the previous award, best actress, had been presented by Leonardo DiCaprio, who entered stage left and received the envelope from Ruiz. That left a duplicate, unopened envelope for best actress at stage right.