This is the year of the Paris summit, the moment when the world must make tough decisions in order to start the process of keeping the rise in global temperatures below 2C. That deadline underlines the importance of collective action, and the damage that would be done if the next two years were all about an EU referendum. Britain cannot act effectively alone, but its capacity to influence debate depends on our commitment to taking tough decisions needed to green the economy. The strategic objective of the next British government’s energy policy must be to decarbonise energy production, reduce demand and develop green technology.Most of that was true in 2010 too: that is why David Cameron’s promise to lead the greenest government ever was so significant. Yet it was abandoned less than two years into the coalition. There were some solid achievements, but too much was lost as the Conservative climate-sceptic right, led for a time by the environment secretary Owen Paterson was allowed to undermine the more ambitious Liberal Democrat-led Department of Energy and Climate Change.The deal with EDF on the new nuclear power station at Hinkley Point is the most significant single contribution to meeting the targets for a decarbonised energy supply and an 80% reduction in emissions by 2050. There is a decent case for it. But it is telling that the coalition has had to rely so heavily on the one technology that is most compatible with “business as usual”.Beyond nuclear, there has been a lack of strategic thought. It took the intervention of Mr Cameron to get a deal on the fourth carbon budget, which led to the levy control framework that will raise a peak of £7.6bn from consumers and suppliers to invest in renewables by 2020. The chancellor, George Osborne, had become the leading nay-sayer after scoffing in 2011 that he would never “save the planet by putting Britain out of business”. Lib Dems take pride in the role of Britain in developing the EU’s demanding carbon reduction targets, but they lost out on ambitious plans for home insulation through the green deal that were compromised by an over-complicated structure, while the green investment bank never got the borrowing rights it needed to fulfil its promise. The Tories have cast off their green disguise The Tories have cast off their green disguise. They will end subsidies for onshore wind power and rely on the market to bring down prices, they are enthusiastic about fracking and they want to build more roads. Labour is committed to decarbonising electricity supply by 2030, and Ed Miliband retains a personal interest in climate, but when it comes to campaigning the emphasis is more on cheaper than greener energy. The Lib Dems have a big, holistic vision for a decarbonised Britain by 2050, but they get fuzzy about the more immediate term. The Greens, of course, remain committed to creating a zero-carbon economy, even if that is at the cost of economic growth. That will alienate many cash-strapped voters, but their willingness to say the unsayable about the polluting way in which we run UK plc is one reason why, for all the party’s shortcomings, the Green voice deserves to be heard.