“BLOOD! BLOOD! BLOOD! BLOOD!” That’s Liars frontman Angus Andrew and his demented gargle on Broken Witch, the opening song from their unsettling 2004 album They Were Wrong, So We Drowned. It’s a record loosely inspired by the German festival of Walpurgisnacht, an ancient annual gathering of witches on the Brocken, the highest peak of the Harz mountains. In Goethe’s Faust, Part One, Walpurgisnacht transforms the Brocken into a devil’s playground, a scene of demonic debauchery and “witches a-farting on stinking old goats”. In the hands of Liars, though, those same old tales (and accounts of witch trials that took place across the Harz mountains) become something even more disturbing. Flip-flopping between the perspective of a mob of pitchfork-wielding villagers and a coven of dreaded witches, they show how fear, paranoia and mistrust are scarier than sorcery, and that a zealot’s bloodlust is deadlier than black magic. It was, the band later said, an allegory for the US invasion of Iraq. Not everyone was bewitched. “Making a record about fear is one thing,” snarked Rolling Stone in its one-star review. “Making a record you fear listening to is another.” Spin, meanwhile, dismissed it simply as “unlistenable”.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest All of which, you suspect, would have tickled Liars enormously. The most obstinate of oddballs, they’ve spent the past 16 years making fools of anyone who dares try to second-guess them; they consistently snub comfort zones and spurn sensible choices, sometimes seemingly motivated by nothing more than a gleeful satisfaction at being noisy flies in the ointment. In 2002, when asked by Pitchfork why they’d littered their debut album with such unwieldy titles (Nothing Is Ever Lost Or Can Be Lost My Science Friend, for example), Andrew just reasoned: “It’s basically like, why not do something like this?” Twelve years later and, as guitarist Aaron Hemphill explained to TheFourOhFive, their decision-making was as purposefully contrary as ever. “We’re not going to live up to these ideas or definitions of what we are,” he said. “We’re going to do the exact opposite of what people think.”Over the past decade, Liars have become a beloved entity for those who like their heroes a little stubborn, a little surly and a little strange. After meeting in LA at the turn of the century, Andrew and Hemphill moved to New York and formed the band with Pat Noecker and Ron Albertson. (The pair were replaced by current drummer Julian Gross after just one album, and they’ve operated as a three-piece ever since.) They generated enough early buzz to be included in Scott Crary’s documentary Kill Your Idols, which explored the links between NYC’s avant garde old guard and its descendants, but it often felt as if they’d been uncomfortably shoehorned into the city’s hip art-punk scene; they were possessed with a mischievous, confrontational bent that suggested a mentality closer to the likes of Suicide than Gogol Bordello.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Hemphill might have had his tongue in his cheek when he once compared the band’s history of strange artistic choices to “giving the middle finger to everyone else”, but his sarcasm contained a germ of truth, given that their music has always been marked by an impish defiance. Their 2001 debut They Threw Us All in a Trench and Stuck a Monument on Top comes on as a miscreant’s manifesto from the start – “You’re a person on fire!” cackles Andrew on the jagged rough-and-tumble of Grown Men Don’t Fall in the River, Just Like That – but they save the most waggish moment for the end, when they sign off not with a bang but a snigger: after five minutes or so, final track This Dust Makes That Mud gets stuck on wheezy freeze-frame, with a loop of notes repeated for so damn long you’re convinced it must be going somewhere … until, 25 minutes later, it just stops as if the batteries have run out, and you realise you’ve been caught in a staring contest with a band who probably buggered off ages ago. It makes sense, then, that they told the music paper the Stool Pigeon in 2010 that it was important to “choose the hard road with an equal mix of hubris and regret” – and it also explains why they so often zigzag from one bizarre idea to another with scant rhyme or reason. They Were Wrong was dark and dense, filled with disturbing noises, ungodly howls and, on the creepy Hold Hands and It Will Happen Again, Andrew chanting “Cry, cry, fry up in your eye” as if he’s reciting an evil incantation.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   On the hard road of hubris and regret … Angus Andrew. Photograph: Matthew Eisman/WireImageBy 2006, they left behind warring witches for the equally strange battleground of Drum’s Not Dead, pitched as a war between the fictional forces representing creativity (Drum) and anxiety (Mt Heart Attack). And yet part of Liars’ magic is that their curveballs don’t always have to be punkish and peculiar: the album’s closing song, The Other Side of Mt Heart Attack, is a beautiful, gentle ballad with sighing strings, gossamer-soft guitar and Andrew’s soft coo. “If you need me, I can always be found,” he sings – and for a band with a Houdini-like knack of wriggling out of any chains you try locking them in, it’s a sweet sentiment. Likewise, none of the highfalutin concepts ever stop Liars from being fun: there’s always mischief in their menace, a sense of reckless experimentation and wry humour. There’s Always Room on the Broom finds Andrew preparing for a night of witchcraft like you would a family picnic (“Made sandwiches and wrapped them up / Time to grab a broom”). Their 2010 single The Overachievers, meanwhile, is a hilariously scathing attack on self-satisfied do-gooders and pious Prius drivers. “We drove a biocar, cos we all love the Earth,” he yells over a thrash that sounds like two dustbins having a punch-up. “It didn’t get us far / And always sounded like a walrus with ulcers.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Sometimes, it seems as if experimental music is fetishised for its complexity beyond all else, and lauded only for being difficult to understand; a sense that people should be prided for their perseverance in wrestling meaning from the notes. But there’s something about Liars’ music – its mood, its attitude, it sound – that transcends how undoubtedly clever and complex and forward-thinking it all is. Their 2007 self-titled album thrived even without any abstract conceits, while 2010’s magnificent Sisterworld succeeded because of how brutally, and vividly, it brought its concept to life: a record that explores LA as a violent, dystopian space, and how people survive in such ugly places of urban decay and apathy. Since then, Liars have continued to wrongfoot everyone. Instead of escalating Sisterworld’s abrasive violence, they asked their Mute Records boss Daniel Miller for a lesson in electronic music and headed into the cloudy, brittle and vulnerable WIXIW in 2012; in 2014, with Mess, they twisted the template into even weirder shapes with a mix of naughty, belching synths and raucous sci-fi bangers. What comes next is anyone’s guess. “We start another song / Decide a way to turn,” sings Andrew on that album’s gloomy, rattling Dress Walker, and it’s a mantra that’s served them well so far: it’s impossible to know where they’ll go next because they don’t know either, but that’s the point. There aren’t many who’ve been as both consistently strange and strangely consistent as them.