The recent rumpus about the BBC’s plans for its recipes websites showed how many of us are turning to digital sources rather than traditional books when cooking. Inevitably, there are apps for that. Lots of them.Here are 10 of the best cookery apps for Android and iOS, covering various cuisines, themes and age groups/abilities. Prices are correct at the time of writing, and “IAP” refers to in-app purchases – usually for extra bundles of recipes in this case.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kitchen Stories.Kitchen StoriesAndroid / iOS (Free)Kitchen Stories is one of the clearest, easiest-to-use cookery apps available. There’s a strong video element alongside the expected text and photos, with a big database of recipes that you can browse by theme and filter by country. New recipes are added regularly, making it worth checking back every week to see what’s new.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Yummly.Yummly RecipesAndroid / iOS / Windows Phone (Free)This isn’t a digital cookbook, but rather a cookery search engine wrapped in an app. You can use it to search for recipes on a range of websites, filtering by cuisine, cooking time, allergies and other queries to pinpoint what you’re looking for. The app also offers personalised recommendations, and has one of the best shopping-list features too.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Green Kitchen.Green KitcheniOS (£3.99 + IAP)Green Kitchen was one of my most-used apps when I was vegetarian, and even since falling off the wagon, I still turn to it regularly. There’s a good variety of veggie recipes (including some vegan and gluten-free options), clear instructions and photos, and an excellent cooking-timer feature that stops you from panicking at any given step.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Forks Over Knives.Forks Over KnivesAndroid / iOS (£3.99)Already a popular film about healthier eating, Forks Over Knives also makes an impressive app. It has more than 200 recipes, with an emphasis on “whole-food, plant-based” meals that ties in to the film’s theme. This is one of the best apps for proving that healthier eating doesn’t mean boring meals.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fit Men Cook.Fit Men CookiOS (£2.49 + IAP)“Our bodies are built in the kitchen, sculpted in the gym” is the slogan for this website and app, which makes it sound like something for Men’s Health cover models only. Actually, this has some good meal ideas, and helpfully will arrange them into eating plans to tie in with whatever exercise you’re doing.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Deliciously Ella.Deliciously EllaAndroid / iOS (£2.99)Another “natural, healthy” option here, with a range of meals and desserts that give gluten and refined sugars – not to mention meat – the boot. All the recipes come with clear instructions and photos, with some handy detox eating plans thrown in for anyone who’s trying to remind their body that it’s supposed to be a temple.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Youmiam.YoumiamAndroid / iOS (Free)Youmiam is one of the best cookery apps putting a social spin on your kitchen activities, with a Pinterest-style system of following other users to get a feed of new recipe ideas whenever you open the app. Like Yummly, its recommendations improve the more you use it, plus you can contribute your own for other people to try.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Great British Chefs Kids HD.Great British Chefs Kids HDiOS (Free)If my children had their way, every meal would consist of sausages, chips and Nerds sweets. If your kids are more adventurous, though, try them with some of the recipes in this app. Affiliated with Tesco, it wants to get parents cooking with their children, with some fun ideas to whet young diners’ appetites. The main Great British Chefs app is also recommended for adults.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tastemade.TastemadeAndroid / iOS (Free)Tastemade is one of the YouTube multi-channel networks (MCNs) with a focus on food and cooking. This app is a good way to dig in to its archives of how-to videos, as well as following new content. Even when you’re not looking for a recipe, Tastemade’s TV-style cookery and lifestyle shows may spark some ideas.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Great British Bake Off.The Great British Bake Off: Step by Step Better BakingiOS (Free + IAP)Finally, Britain’s current TV-cookery crush has its own app, setting its sights on the kind of novice bakers who’d never be allowed near the Great British Bake Off tent. This has some good free recipes to start you off with cakes, but most of its content – biscuits and breads included – comes in packs acquired as 79p in-app purchases.That’s our selection: now share your thoughts. If you’ve used any of the apps above, what did you think of them? If you have other favourites that aren’t included here, recommend them. The comments section is open for your views.