Tomorrow is the anniversary of the 2013 Rana Plaza catastrophe, in which 1,134 garment workers in Bangladesh were killed when their factory collapsed. The workers died in the overcrowded and poorly constructed building while working to meet our demands for fast fashion.Across the world conscious consumers will join fashionrevolution.org – a vibrant global civil movement focused on cleaning up the $3trn fashion industry, based primarily in low-wage economies.Post Rana Plaza there are many reform programmes under way, from the installation of fire escapes in supplier factories to the publication of factory lists by transnational brands.Understandably, consumers want to know which is the cleanest brand. Campaign groups aggregate these complex initiatives and publish transparency league ratings of brands to try to help us navigate the high street. There’s even an app,  Not My Style, on iTunes.But as a recent study from New York University’s Stern Center for Business and Human Rights concludes, too much emphasis is put on transparency (self-declared by brands) rather than actual outcomes. The result? When it comes to paying a living wage, mainstream brands have made no real progress.To end poverty wages and unacceptable conditions for the 60-75 million people who work in the global garment supply chain, we need to stop letting billion dollar brands define our activism.The time is right. Take inspiration from climate-change activists: in 2015, 800 Dutch citizens used human rights law to prosecute the government for failing to cut climate-change emissions sufficiently. And guess what? They won!The big picture: sculpting the truth      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The real thing? A Greenpeace-commissioned sculpture delivered to Coca-Cola. Photograph: Jiri Rezac/GreenpeaceThis 2.5 tonne ocean plastic sculpture, Plasticide, has been created by underwater sculptor Jason deCaires Taylor. It’s a dramatic installation that features seabirds regurgitating rubbish amid an idyllic family beach scene. It does not sugar-coat the issue. It’s estimated that as much as 12.7m tonnes of plastic packaging enter the sea every year. It was recently installed on the doorstep of Coca-Cola’s London HQ by Greenpeace in protest at the company’s role in ocean plastic pollution.Well dressed: handmade Massai jewellery      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tribal wear: bead bangles made by Massai women.Alama is a jewellery collection that builds around the idea of ‘culture to wear’, with its intricate hand-crafted bead designs created by women from the Maasai tribe of Tanzania. The skilled female Maasai artisans work with only locally sourced leather, as well as recycled plastic and glass beads purchased from local markets, to create unique, beautifully crafted statement pieces. The project is run through the NGO Africa Amini Alama, and proceeds go back into improving living conditions for the Maasai and Meru people of northern Tanzania, including free healthcare, educational programmes and social support. The NGO also invests in GMO-free agricultural production and sustainable tourism projects, managed by the Maasai themselves. Each piece is handmade and celebrates the Maasai’s distinctive dress and jewellery customs.Maasai jewellery From £216, alama-project.comEmail Lucy at lucy.siegle@observer.co.uk or follow her on Twitter @lucysiegle