Sweet aromatics infuse the winter months: ginger, nutmeg, clove, clementine, spiced rum and brandy. Their exotic, warming flavours wrap around you like a warm blanket. My California blood almost curdled when I was first faced with Christmas pudding, but now I crave the concentrated sweetness of sun-dried fruits in midwinter. We all know a recipe for the classic, but why not switch things up now and again? This week, I’ve created five show-stopping alternatives to Christmas pudding.Spiced cheesecake with cranberry compoteAt this time of year, I can’t get enough of cranberries. A traditional New York-style cheesecake is only made better with this tart, pungent compote.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Claire Ptak’s spiced cheesecake with cranberry compote. Photograph: Kristin Perers for the GuardianMakes 1 cakeFor the cheesecake175g ginger biscuits75g butter, melted600g cream cheese180g caster sugar¼ tsp salt¼ tsp cinnamonA grating of black pepperA grating of nutmeg¼ tsp mixed spiceA pinch of ground allspice2 tsp vanilla extract4 eggs, plus 1 extra yolk200g creme fraicheFor the cranberry compote340g cranberries300g caster sugarZest and juice of 1 orange1 Preheat the oven to 160C/325F/gas mark 3. Grease a 20cm springform tin.2 Grind the biscuits in a food processor until fine. Stir in the melted butter, then press into the bottom of the tin.3 Beat the cream cheese with the sugar, salt, pepper, spices and vanilla until smooth. Beat in the eggs and extra yolk. Fold in the creme fraiche.4 Wrap the bottom of the cake tin with tin foil, then scrape in the batter. Put it in a roasting pan large enough for it to sit in comfortably. Pour in water to 3/4 up the side of the cake tin and bake for 1 hour 20 minutes. It should have a slight wobble but be set around the edges. Allow to cool completely, then chill in the tin for at least 2 hours.5 For the compote, add all the ingredients to a heavy-based saucepan. Cook for around 15 minutes, or until jammy. Allow to cool.6 Serve the cheesecake with a dollop of the cranberry compote, or spread it all over the top.Banana, chocolate and spiced rum pavlovaCustard and cream are flavoured with ample nutmeg and booze, topped with perfectly ripe bananas drizzled with lashings of dark chocolate ganache.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Claire Ptak’s banana, chocolate and spiced rum pavlova. Photograph: Kristin Perers for the GuardianServes 6-8 For the meringue4 egg whites¼ tsp salt½ tsp vinegar1 tsp vanilla extract270g caster sugar2 tbsp cornflour½ a nutmeg, grated, plus extra to finish For the custard50g cornflour4 egg yolks600ml whole milk100g caster sugar½ tsp salt2 tsp vanilla extractFor the cream400ml double cream2 tbsp rumA grating of nutmeg1 tsp vanilla2 tbsp caster sugarFor the ganache200g 70% dark chocolate200ml double creamTo finish3 ripe (but not over-ripe) bananas1 Preheat the oven to 110C/230F/gas mark ¼. Line a tray with baking paper. With an electric mixer, beat the egg whites, salt, vinegar and vanilla on a high speed until soft peaks form.2 Whisk the sugar, cornflour and nutmeg together by hand, then add half to the frothy egg whites. Whisk until very stiff, then add the remaining sugar mixture. Whisk until smooth and glossy.3 Pipe the meringue into a 23cm circle or oval, making a slight depression in the centre. Bake for about 2 hours. Remove from the oven. Transfer the meringue on to a cooling rack right away to cool completely.4 To make the custard, have ready an iced water bath, with a bowl set inside it. In a small bowl, whisk the cornflour into the yolks.5 In a heavy-based pan, heat the milk, sugar, salt and vanilla until it starts to foam. Pour a little over the yolks to temper, whisk, then return to the pan. Cook until the custard has thickened and coats the back of the spoon. The custard should be the thickness of a creme patisserie.6 Transfer the custard to the bowl set in the iced water bath to stop it cooking any further. Cover the surface of the custard with clingfilm to prevent a skin forming. Chill.7 For the cream, mix all the ingredients together in a large bowl. Whisk until it has just thickened into loose peaks, as it will continue to thicken after you stop whisking. Set aside.8 To make the ganache, chop the chocolate finely and put in a heatproof bowl. Heat the cream until it is just bubbling, watching it closely to ensure it doesn’t bubble over. Pour the hot cream over the chocolate, and leave to sit for five minutes. Stir to combine and until the ganache is shiny.9 To assemble the pavlova, transfer the meringue to a serving dish. Top with the custard, then the cream, and finally the sliced bananas. Drizzle with the ganache, and finish with a grating of nutmeg.Figgy mulled wine honey cake (main picture)Dried figs are plumped with the remains of yesterday’s red wine and steeped in spices, then drenched in honey. The texture and stickiness of this one makes it my favourite.Makes 1 cake400g dried figs165g unsalted butter75g brandy300ml red wineZest of 1 orange, and 25ml freshly squeezed orange juice250g honey, plus extra for drizzling1 egg1½ tsp ground cinnamon¼ tsp ground cloves200g wholemeal wheat or wholemeal spelt flour1½ tsp baking powder½ tsp bicarbonate of soda1 Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4 and line a 23cm cake tin with baking parchment.2 Trim the rough stems off the figs, then chop into 1cm pieces. Cut the butter into small pieces and allow it to soften to room temperature.3 Put the brandy, wine and dried figs in a heavy-based saucepan and simmer over a medium-low heat to plump the figs. After 15 minutes, remove the pan from the heat and cool for 20 minutes.4 Add the orange zest and juice, then stir in the butter and honey. Leave for 15 minutes, then whisk in the egg.5 In a separate bowl, whisk together the cinnamon, cloves, flour, baking powder and bicarbonate of soda. Slowly whisk into the wet ingredients. Transfer the mixture to the prepared tin, and bake for 45 minutes.6 Cool the cake in the tin for 10 minutes, then turn out on to a plate. To serve, drizzle with a little extra honey and serve warm with yoghurt.Orange almond syrup cakeClaudia Roden’s orange cake is famous for its use of an orange boiled whole. I’ve spiced it up here with cinnamon, added whole, unpeeled almonds that you grind yourself, and drizzled it with a Cointreau-laced syrup.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Claire Ptak’s orange almond syrup cake. Photograph: Kristin Perers for the GuardianMakes 1 cakeFor the cake2 large oranges250g whole almonds (skins on)6 eggs200g caster sugar1 tsp baking powder For the custard2 bay leaves300ml double cream3 egg yolks2 tbsp caster sugarFor the syrupJuice and zest of 1 orange100g caster sugar100ml waterJuice of 1 lemon4 tbsp Cointreau or other orange liquor1 Butter and line a 20cm cake tin with baking parchment.2 Wash the oranges, then simmer them whole (including their peel) in a saucepan of water for two hours. Cool, then cut open and remove any pips.3 Grind the almonds to a fine powder in a food processor, then set aside.4 Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/gas mark 6. Cut the oranges into quarters and put in a food processor. Process to a pulp. Add the ground nuts, then the eggs one at a time, then the sugar and baking powder.5 Scrape the batter into the prepared tin and bake for about an hour. Cool in the tin, and then turn out on to a serving plate.6 For the custard, put the bay leaves and the cream in a heavy-based saucepan. Steep over a medium heat just until the cream comes to the boil. Watch it closely as it can boil over.7 In a bowl, whisk together the yolks and sugar. Temper the yolks with a little of the bay cream, then return to the saucepan and whisk over a low heat for five minutes. Allow to cool.8 For the syrup, put all the ingredients into a small saucepan. Reduce by half. Skewer the cooled cake, then pour half of the syrup over just before serving. Serve the remaining syrup separately for pouring over individual slices of cake with the custard.Dulce de leche and chocolate puddingThis is made with the moreish caramel that results from reducing cream and sugar or condensed milk into a jam. Chocolate and cinnamon have a long history together in Mexico and here they make this delicious, self-saucing, flan-like dessert more Christmassy. The cake mixture and the flan mixture could both be made in advance and then assembled and baked closer to the serving time. Alternatively, you could bake the dish a few hours before serving and serve at room temperature, but it really should be made on the day.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Claire Ptak’s dulce de leche and chocolate pudding. Photograph: Kristin Perers for the GuardianMakes 1 cake200g dulce de leche ¼ tsp Maldon saltFor the cake150g caster sugar100g plain flour40g cocoa powder1 tsp ground cinnamon½ tsp bicarbonate of soda¼ tsp baking powderA pinch of fine sea salt180g plain yoghurt4 tbsp mild olive oil1 eggFor the flan340g evaporated milk400g sweetened condensed milk4 eggs1 tsp vanilla1 Preheat the oven to 190C/375F/gas mark 5 and have ready a roasting tray that is large enough to house a round or oval pudding dish, and is at least 4cm deep. Spread the dulce de leche inside the pudding dish, as if you were buttering it. Sprinkle with the Maldon salt.2 For the cake, whisk together the dry ingredients. In a separate bowl, whisk together the yoghurt, olive oil and egg. Whisk the wet ingredients into the dry ingredients, and pour into the prepared pudding dish.3 In a separate bowl, whisk together the evaporated milk, condensed milk, eggs and vanilla. Decant into a jug, and slowly and gently pour this over the chocolate cake mixture. You want to try to keep distinct layers at this stage.4 Set the pudding dish within the larger roasting tray, then carefully fill the tray with water until it is halfway up the sides of the pudding dish. Cover the whole roasting tray with tin foil (shiny side down), and bake for one hour, until the chocolate cake has risen to the top and is set.5 Remove from the oven and allow the pudding to cool for 10 minutes in the water. Remove from the water and cool for another 10 minutes. Run a small sharp knife around the perimeter of the pudding to separate it from the dish. Invert on to a serving plate and serve.Claire Ptak is a pastry chef, author and food stylist and owns Violet Bakery in London. She is the author of the Violet Bakery Cookbook (Square Peg); @violetcakeslondon