As the Australian music community absorbs the news of the death of David Bowie at the age of 69 yesterday, musicians and songwriters who came of age in the 70s and early 80s – when Bowie was arguably at his peak – have spoken of his profound influence on their work and their lives.Melbourne soloist Jen Cloher expressed the commonly recurring theme of disbelief. “I turned to Courtney [Barnett, Cloher’s partner] last night and said, ‘You just never thought that David Bowie would die.’ Which is ludicrous, but that’s how it feels,” she said. “He was like a god.” I turned to Courtney [Barnett] last night and said, ‘you just never thought Bowie would die’. That’s how it feelsJen Cloher Cloher also spoke of Bowie’s indirect impact on her as a queer artist. “The 70s in so many ways were far more dangerous, far more edgy, far more open to a broad idea of gender than today. It would have rubbed off. You grow up around that, and it infiltrates in ways that you don’t even think about at the time.”Robert Forster, co-founder of the Go-Betweens, has often written and spoken of his admiration for Bowie. “Bowie was obviously the most important white musical figure of the 70s,” he said, when we spoke last August. “He bestrode the decade like no one else.“Bowie was beautiful, which was confrontational for a 14-, 15-year-old boy. The most beautiful pop star of the early 70s was a man, which is an amazing thing by itself, and Bowie played it to the hilt.” All the Melbourne boys at the time – Sean Kelly, James Freud, Nick Cave – loved BowieRobert Forster (the Go-Betweens) Forster also spoke of the impact the artist had on Australian cities at the time. “All the Melbourne boys at the time – Sean Kelly [Models, Absent Friends, the Dukes], James Freud [Models], Nick Cave – loved Bowie. The Brisbane boys loved Bowie too, but they didn’t want to be Bowie. All the Melbourne boys loved Bowie and wanted to be Bowie. There’s a lot of photos of those boys in make-up, believe you me! That’s how the different cities took to it.“He was this beautiful flittering presence, and an amazing songwriter. It was Rebel Rebel; it was Golden Years; it was Diamond Dogs. I could name every track off Ziggy Stardust and Hunky Dory. It was Sound and Vision; it was Heroes, it was just an amazing run.”  Bowie’s songwriting opened a gate which inspired and verified many of our early songsAsh Wednesday (Models, JAB) A few years after coming across a copy of Space Oddity/Wild Eyed Boy from Freecloud in the bargain rack of an Adelaide record store, Ash Wednesday formed Australian punk rock band JAB, in 1976. They relocated to Melbourne shortly after. “When I met him, JAB’s vocalist Bohdan [Kubiakowski] was a tall, striking figure with short silver hair, and a pallid complexion complemented by black lipstick and nails, wearing platform shoes, playing acoustic guitar. Johnny Crash and I were to accompany him with an assortment of synthesisers, drum machine and drums,” he said, of Bowie’s early influence. “JAB was to morph into Models. I certainly feel that Bowie’s songwriting opened a gate which inspired and verified many of our early songs.” Wednesday spoke of Bowie’s penchant for reinvention. “[He] cleverly metamorphosed from album to album, always one or two steps ahead of the media, who struggled to categorise him as he gained momentum. It was fun to watch,” he said. “Visually stunning, larger than life, Bowie inspired the fashion and attitude of a number of generations to come.”  It was one of the first times I had met someone really famous who was incredibly normalBuzz Bidstrup (the Angels) Yet Bowie was also remembered as an open and friendly presence, a world removed from his alien persona. Graham “Buzz” Bidstrup, who supported Bowie on his first Australian tour in 1978 as a member of the Angels, recalled Bowie introducing himself backstage over a bowl of soup.“It was one of the first times I had met someone really famous who was incredibly normal,” he said. “He put to shame a number of people I met who were nowhere near as talented.” Kim Salmon, of pioneering punk-blues group the Scientists – and later Beasts of Bourbon and the Surrealists – posted a personal note on his Facebook page that highlighted the intergenerational nature of Bowie’s cultural legacy.  He gave people permission to be exactly who they wereKim Salmon (the Scientists; the Surrealists; Beasts of Bourbon) “A few months ago I took my 11-year-old daughter to the Bowie exhibition. Today she said it – I said it – he gave people permission to be exactly who they were. When I was a 14-year-old spaced-out science fiction kid he was my man.“When my drop-dead gorgeous friend was wondering about his sexuality, Bowie gave him permission to be what he was. Lately my daughter’s been far above the world, floating in her tin can, and it hasn’t been easy. Bowie was there to let her know it’s OK. Thanks to his massive body of work, he’s still there.” David Bridie, of Not Drowning, Waving and My Friend the Chocolate Cake, also pointed to Bowie’s astonishing output. “There are very few artists you could say made at least eight classic albums: Hunky Dory, Lodger, Low, Aladdin Sane, Heroes, Scary Monsters, Ziggy Stardust and Station to Station,” he said. “Fine work, Mr Jones.” Fine work, Mr JonesDavid Bridie (Not Drowning, Waving; My Friend the Chocolate Cake) “Regardless of his image or his sense of how he projected himself, there was always the songs, and he wrote some of the best pop songs ever written,” Cloher said. “He transcended our idea of what rock or pop music should be. I guess the Beatles started fucking with those ideas, but I felt that Bowie took it to the next level.“He never lost melody, his sense of what a good pop song is. Genius is thrown around far too often, but in the case of David Bowie, he really did possess that quality.”