Donald Trump has been in a Woody Allen movie, a Home Alone sequel and Zoolander. The screenwriter Bob Gale admitted villain Biff Tannen – the bully who strikes it rich and builds a “huge” tower named after himself in Back to the Future 2 – was modelled on Trump. Meryl Streep went orange face for a charity gala in New York and Johnny Depp gave his best performance in years as the Donald in a Funny or Die sketch.Trump is ubiquitous. Should he win in November, Donald J Trump will be the first internet meme to become president. He’s even in movies that he isn’t in. Here are four cinematic avatars which predicted the resistible rise of the Trumpster.1. Bill ‘the Butcher’ Cutting in Gangs of New York    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In Martin Scorsese’s messy epic, Daniel Day-Lewis plays Bill “the Butcher”, violent patriot, racist and proto-gangster. Literally wrapped in the Stars and Stripes, Bill lectures protege Amsterdam (Leonardo DiCaprio) on survival. “Fear” is the key, he states: “the spectacle of fearsome acts”. Despite a bruising appearance on WrestleMania, Trump hasn’t thrown knives at Melania yet, nor beaten a sheriff to death with his own club as Bill does, but only last week Trump boasted of wanting to hit speakers at the Democratic national convention “so hard their heads would spin” and has tacitly encouraged the manhandling of protesters at his rallies. Bill is an ultra-patriotic American – “I’m New York,” he tells Amsterdam – a nativist who believes his country needs defending from “the foreign hoards”, particularly the Irish. “I don’t see no Americans, I see trespassers,” he says to the Tammany Hall politico and occasional ally, “Boss” Tweed (Jim Broadbent). Swap Irish for Mexicans and Catholics for Muslims, and you can imagine Bill voting to build Trump’s famous wall. Maybe when Trump talks about making America great again, he’s pining for the heyday of Five Points and Bill the Butcher.2. Charles Foster Kane in Citizen Kane   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “You know, Mr Bernstein, if I hadn’t been very rich, I might have been a really great man”: so speaks Charles Foster Kane in Orson Welles’ classic riches-to-more-riches tale. There’s no getting away from it. Kane is Trump-esque – a mogul who struggles to align his wealth with his need for affirmation; a showman who joins a chorus line of girls to sing a song about himself: “He doesn’t like that Mister / He likes good old Charlie Kane!’ Charismatic and despotic by turns, he even tells his best friend, “You’re fired!” Insecure, grandiose and a self-styled man of the people, Kane seeks to parley his “brand” into a political career against the corrupt establishment – incumbent “Boss” Gittes – an attempt that is ultimately frustrated by a sex scandal. Talking with documentarian Errol Morris in 2008, Trump declared his love for the film. And yet The Art of the Deal author sees it as less of a tragedy than most: “It was a great rise, in Citizen Kane, and there was a modest fall. It wasn’t a financial fall.” When Morris asks what advice Trump would give Kane, his reply is Trump 101: “Get yourself a different woman!”3. Howard Beale (and Arthur Jensen) in Network   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Soon-to- be-fired news anchor Howard Beale (Peter Finch) threatens to commit suicide during his last transmission, but when the ratings jump, the network rehires him with a new slot as a Jeremiah for the 1970s. Beale offers a hell-in-a-handcart vision of American society, echoing every pessimistic Trump stump speech: “Everybody knows things are bad. It’s a depression ... Punks are running wild in the street and there’s nobody anywhere who seems to know what to do, and there’s no end to it.” Beale has no solutions to offer, no programme as such. With Oscars for Finch and Paddy Chayefsky’s superlative screenplay, Beale is more articulate and convincing than Donald “I have the best words” Trump could ever manage. But the appeal of Beale’s gut-led, kneejerk reaction which once stoked the Tea party, now fuels the Trump train. When Beale’s ire solidifies into specifics, threatening the interests of the studio, CEO Arthur Jensen (Ned Beatty) reveals his own messianic bent, converting Beale to his image of a Trumpish post-national, post-individual corporate utopia: “The world is a business, Mr Beale. It has been since man crawled out of the slime.” From enraged tribune, Beale becomes a corporate mouthpiece of passivity, uncertainty and fear. Or Fox News, as we call it today.4. President Greg Stillson in The Dead Zone   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest David Cronenberg’s Stephen King adaptation stars Christopher Walken as a man who emerges from a coma gifted with the supernatural ability to see into the future. On shaking hands with senatorial candidate Greg Stillson – played by former JFK and future Jed Bartlett Martin Sheen – he has a vision of President Stillson taking the decision to launch an all-out nuclear attack. Stillson browbeats a dissenting general: “I am the voice of the people!” echoing Trump’s Republican candidacy acceptance speech: “I am your voice.” Even if Stillson’s wild-eyed megalomania is a different flavour of nuts to Trump’s naked narcissism, the film highlights a specific concern for many of Trump’s critics across the political spectrum. Hillary Clinton summed it up in her speech at the Democratic convention in Philadelphia: “A man you can bait with a tweet is not a man we can trust with nuclear weapons.” Several memes Photoshopping Trump into The Dead Zone make the point succinctly. The question is not so much will Donald Trump be the next president of the United States, as will he, Greg Stillson-style, be the last?