Sam Smith: I want to dedicate my Oscar to the LGBT community When Britain’s Sam Smith took to the stage to accept the Academy Award for best song on Sunday night in Los Angeles, he proudly referenced a quote from Ian McKellen about the failure of any openly gay man to win an Oscar. This was news to Milk screenwriter Dustin Lance Black, who won the best original screenplay prize in 2009 for his work on the critically acclaimed gay rights historical drama, and was quick to take Smith to task. Black, who is engaged to the British diver Tom Daley, wrote on Twitter: “Hey @SamSmithWorld, if you have no idea who I am, it may be time to stop texting my fiance.” He then posted a YouTube video of his win seven years ago.Dustin Lance Black (@DLanceBlack)Hey @SamSmithWorld, if you have no idea who I am, it may be time to stop texting my fiancé. Here's a start: https://t.co/8hGTRtIaMKFebruary 29, 2016McKellen, in fact, said, “No openly gay man has ever won the Oscar; I wonder if that is prejudice or chance,” when discussing the current row over the lack of diversity among both Oscar voters and this year’s nominees. He was specifically referring to the best actor prize, for which the Englishman was nominated in 1998 for Gods and Monsters.Oscars winners 2016: the full list from Alicia Vikander to Leonardo DiCaprio According to Entertainment Weekly, Smith was informed of his faux pas backstage at the Oscars soon after receiving his prize. He responded: “Shit! Fuck that! Two’s my lucky number, so it’s all good. Who was the other person?”In fact, there have been myriad openly gay winners over the years, including several in the best song category. Elton John won in 1995 for Can You Feel the Love Tonight from The Lion King, Melissa Etheridge won in 2006 for I Need to Wake Up from the documentary An Inconvenient Truth, and composer Stephen Sondheim won in 1991 for Sooner or Later (I Always Get My Man) from Dick Tracy.During his acceptance speech, for the song Writing’s on the Wall from Bond movie Spectre, Smith said: “I read an article a few months ago by Sir Ian McKellen and he said that no openly gay man had ever won an Oscar. And if this is the case, even if it isn’t the case, I want to dedicate this to the LGBT community all around the world. I stand here tonight as a proud gay man and I hope we can all stand together as equals one day.”Oscars 2016: 10 things we learned Other openly gay Oscar winners over the years include Bill Condon (best adapted screenplay in 1998 for Gods and Monsters), Alan Ball (best original screenplay in 2000 for American Beauty) and John Schlesinger (best director in 1970 for Midnight Cowboy). John Gielgud won best supporting actor in 1981 for Arthur, but was not openly gay.