When Go Set a Watchman came out last summer, the dominant mood was disappointment. Of course, it had been a troubled book from the moment it was announced, coming in the midst of a growing tempest about Harper Lee’s health and capacities. For quite a long time before the book appeared, journalists – including this one – had been trying to get a straight answer on how involved Lee was in the renewed efforts to protect her legacy and estate, or at least why this was all happening now. Lee had sworn for years, publicly and privately, that she’d never publish another book.Clear information proved, in the end, difficult to obtain. This made matters worse for everyone, and it made matters worse for the book. By the time it actually arrived, every time Lee’s name came up in the media there was a wave of pushback. Was Lee adequately aware of what was happening? Why wouldn’t she give an interview? Why were people in town saying some kind of elder abuse was afoot?This investigative spirit – the conviction that something about all of this smelled bad – leaked into the reviews, which often had a sleuthing quality. There seemed to be some idea that you could solve the mystery simply by interpreting the book, essentially a first draft of To Kill a Mockingbird. Michiko Kakutani led the chorus of horrified reviewers in the New York Times. Her take on the book mostly boiled down to surprise and displeasure at its depiction of the elderly Atticus Finch as quite racist, a member of the Ku Klux Klan prone to inveighing against civil rights organizations.But then, like most of the reviewers, Kakutani deployed a number of rhetorical questions that gave a sense she hadn’t quite been able to put the surrounding circumstances aside: “How did a lumpy tale about a young woman’s grief over her discovery of her father’s bigoted views evolve into a classic coming-of-age story about two children and their devoted widower father?” Adam Gopnik at the New Yorker pointed out that the two Atticuses were actually quite congruent, exhibiting a particular kind of Southern liberal racism: “And so beneath Atticus’s style of enlightenment is a kind of bigotry that could not recognize itself as such at the time.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Anyway, Atticus aside, the verdict was nearly unanimous that this book was a bad read. It meanders quite a bit; long passages describing the south drag. We will likely never know how much the “original” manuscript was edited here, especially since it morphs at times into verbatim scenes from To Kill a Mockingbird itself. It has none of the elegant construction or unitary voice. It certainly also lacks the soft focus a childhood setting can impose, the author getting to hide in the innocence of her child. Here Jean Louise, no longer going by Scout, is in a state of extreme doubt about the noble ideas the first book seemed to espouse.Yet something is buried in there, I think, something worth knowing. One scene in the novel will linger with me for a long time. Jean Louise finds herself drafted into a “Coffee” organized by her aunt Alexandra. And the women who come calling are, to Jean Louise, aliens from the planet I-Never-Left-Alabama.As is her habit, Jean Louise is at first externally polite but internally judgmental. In her head she promptly divides these afternoon ladies up into groups: the Newlyweds and the Diaper Set, the Light Brigade and the Perennial Hopefuls. But so extreme is her frustration with the whole setup that the narrator suddenly breaks into the first person: She glanced down the long, low-ceilinged livingroom at the double row of women, women she had merely known all her life, and she could not talk to them five minutes without drying up stone dead. I can’t think of anything to say to them. They talk incessantly about the things they do, and I don’t know how to do the things they do. If we married— if I married anybody from this town— these would be my friends, and I couldn’t think of a thing to say to them. I would be Jean Louise the Silent.This might sound snottish, but Jean Louise’s stream of consciousness has harsh words for New York too: I didn’t know what hate was until I lived among you and saw you hating every day. They even had to pass laws to keep you from hating. I despise your quick answers, your slogans in the subways, and most of all I despise your lack of good manners: you’ll never have ’em as long as you exist.There is something compelling about the sense of alienation here. It is very human, this frustration, this anger and this inability to fit. It is the natural essence of the tomboyish sort of girl Jean Louise once was. But we all grow up, and this sort of person grows up to discover that gender norms cannot so easily tolerate skinned knees and wisecracks in women past the age of 12.I feel tempted to rehearse a lot of caveats here, all the rules about respecting the line between fiction and autobiography. Jean Louise Finch is not quite Harper Lee, Harper Lee not Jean Louise Finch. But I think there is in that passage of Go Set a Watchman some pretty honest confession of what it was to grow up a whip-smart, outspoken, thinking white woman in the south. It was, in a word, unpleasant. Everyone could seem an alien, but there would be times when you suspect that alien is you.Perhaps this shattered everyone’s illusions about the successful author of a feel-good book is like. It would, I think, have made everyone happy to believe that Harper Lee was living in satisfied seclusion. It would have made us happy to think that having written what so many considered a perfect book, she was happy enough to never publish again. At the end of all this, after all the hours I’ve spent thinking about the last two years of Lee’s life, I still do not think most of us can know whether the publication of this book made her truly happy. But I do think we learned something from it.