We have returned from California to winter in London. Mornings are crisper, afternoons are darker and days are shorter. More time under the covers and plenty of steaming hot coffee are the order of the day. Winterising here starts with pulling out the woolly hats and gloves that have been packed away since March and getting into the kitchen to warm up our draughty flat. I actually adore this time of year and take any excuse to be at the stove, filling the house with fragrant cooking. I start with quince.This yellow winter fruit looks like the stocky lovechild of apples and pears; its flavour lies somewhere between them, too. Tough, rock-hard and almost sinewy, quince is virtually inedible when raw but, with sugar and gentle heat, it can be transformed into a delicacy. I like to poach them with vanilla and lemon zest: a harmonious combination that can be used in myriad ways. Serve simply with yoghurt and granola for breakfast; add it to a cake mixture; or fold it through creme anglaise and freeze for a seasonal ice-cream. You could also do a take on pavlova, sinking the poached pieces of fruit into a pillow of cream perched on top of a chewy meringue base and drizzled with the reduced poaching syrup.When the quince is pureed and simmered into a paste (which is often referred to as membrillo, its name in Spanish), it makes one of my most favourite after‑dinner sweets or accompaniments to cheese. Though these are both easy recipes, they do need to be nursed at the stove for a while; they are labours of love – but then, what else is there to do when the weather’s like this?Claire Ptak’s recipes for pumpkin maple bundt cake and butternut squash caramel | Baking Quince paste (main picture)Serves 6Butter, for greasing4-5 large quinces100ml waterAbout 1.2kg granulated or preserving sugar3 tbsp lemon juiceCaster sugar, for coating1 Grease a swiss roll tin and line with baking parchment.2 Wash the quinces well to remove any fuzz. Quarter and core the fruit, but leave the peel on. Cut into smaller chunks and put the fruit in a large, heavy pan.3 Add the water, cover and simmer over a low heat for about 1 hour, or until the fruit is soft and tender. Stir occasionally. Add more water if necessary.4 Remove the pan from the heat and pass the fruit through a food mill or sieve. Weigh the pulp and put it back in the pan. Measure an equal weight of sugar and stir it into the pureed quince.5 Place the pan over a very low heat and, stirring occasionally, cook for 1½-2 hours, or until the paste has taken on a dark ruby red colour.6 Test the mixture. Put a spoonful on a plate. It should firm up and, when it cools, it should be matt and not sticky.7 Stir in the lemon juice. Spread the paste out in the tin. Leave it to cool. Cut into squares (or into shapes using a cutter) and coat in caster sugar. Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for 3 weeks.Poached quinceServes 6700g water350g caster sugar1 vanilla pod1 unwaxed lemon3 quinces      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Serve simply with yoghurt and granola for breakfast; add it to a cake mixture; or fold it through creme anglaise and freeze for a seasonal ice-cream. Photograph: Kristin Perers for the Guardian1 Combine the water and sugar in a large pan. Split the vanilla pod in half and scrape out the seeds. Peel the lemon using a vegetable peeler, then add the vanilla seeds, lemon peel and juice to the pan. Peel and quarter the quinces, leaving the cores intact, then add to the liquid.2 Simmer on a low heat for 1½-2 hours, or until the fruit is soft, but still holding its shape. Use a slotted spoon to remove the fruit from the liquid.3 Return the pan to the heat, and bring to the boil. Boil the liquid for around 10 minutes to reduce it to a syrup. Serve the quince and its syrup with pavlova or ice-cream.Claire Ptak is a pastry chef, author and food stylist and owns Violet Bakery in London. She is the author of the Violet Bakery Cookbook (Square Peg); @violetcakeslondon