“Right,” says director Jenny Sealey, an eye-catching figure dressed in blue tartan pyjamas, one of eight pairs she favours for rehearsals. “Let’s go from the fanny-grabbing moment.”“Fanny grabbing?” repeats writer Jo Clifford in mock horror. “My god, this is a great Spanish classic we’re talking about.”“What would you suggest I call it?” inquires Sealey. Clifford gives an impish grin. “Fanny grabbing is perfect.”Sealey and Clifford are in rehearsals for Federico García Lorca’s The House of Bernarda Alba, which opens next month at the Royal Exchange in Manchester. Kathryn Hunter is playing the widow who rules over her household and her five unmarried daughters with a rod of iron. Sitting in a chair, a silver-topped cane in hand, Hunter’s Bernarda Alba may look tiny and frail but she exudes dominance. She makes you think of a deceptively lazy tigress, ready to pounce.Access all areas: the plays that took captioning and signing to their hearts Hunter has been learning British Sign Language for the show, which casts her alongside deaf and disabled actors. This is a co-production with Graeae, the disabled-led company of which Sealey is the artistic director, and is an all-female one in terms of creatives and cast. BSL, captions and audio description – which each come with their own unique poetry – are not just added extras tacked on at the end of the process. They are fully incorporated into the action from the first day of rehearsal, adding layer after layer of meaning to Lorca’s text. Which sister signs for which sister, when Bernarda Alba does sign or refuses to sign for her two deaf daughters, and which characters can and can’t see all become meaningful. Such creative decisions underline the themes of power, status, punishment, intimacy and blindness that haunt Lorca’s original text, which was finished just a few weeks before he was executed by a fascist firing squad in Spain in 1936.“It’s so much more complicated doing it like this, and it makes great demands on everyone, including me as the writer, but it’s potentially so much richer too,” says Clifford. “You have to think of text in a different way when you know that different members of the audience will all receive it in different ways.” Hunter agrees: “It’s a very different process and it’s truly collaborative because everything has to be translated into BSL and audio-described, so everything has to be examined, prodded and agreed. It’s very delightful, like arriving in a new country that you’ve heard about but have never previously visited.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a trailer for The House of Bernarda AlbaThe rehearsal I watch is distinctive for the sheer amount of laughter, but also because it feels like a genuine exploration of the play in which everyone – including Sealey – is willing to express their uncertainty and say, “I don’t know. Let’s try it this way and see.”“I don’t have all the answers and I never pretend that I do,” says Sealey. “I couldn’t work any other way. It’s about trying to create a rehearsal room that is a proper process of discovery and I just have to hope that I’ve built a relationship with the actors so they trust me enough to know that eventually from those discoveries I will make the right choices.”Sealey had always thought that The House of Bernarda Alba would mark her swansong for Graeae, the company she has led for the past 20 years. She has not only transformed Graeae artistically through developing a distinctive aesthetic in which signing and action are fully integrated, but she has also pushed it into the vanguard of campaigns for disability arts and greater diversity in British theatre. “I wish I had never said that I’d leave after I did Bernarda Alba. I’m definitely not leaving: there is still far too much to do, and sometimes I feel as if I have barely begun. We’ve got so much planned over the next four years. This is a play I have always longed to do, but the time never seemed right, or other people were reviving it or we were focused on doing something else. But it was always there in the back of my mind as a play I really wanted to do. Maybe because I was one of four girls in my family, so I’ve always been aware of the complexities of relationships with sisters, how we do or don’t communicate, and how as sisters we all had to find different ways to navigate our way around the dynamics of family life. Maybe part of wanting to do this play is a cathartic thing.”Hunter has always wanted to work with Sealey and Graeae, and 17 years or so ago they spent a week workshopping the play with an eye to a full production. So she didn’t hesitate when over a year ago Sealey asked her to play Bernarda Alba. But when she picked up the play to re-read it she was taken back by her own response.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Director Jenny Sealey and Kathryn Hunter in rehearsals for The House of Bernarda Alba at the Royal Exchange, Manchester. Photograph: Becky Bailey“When I read it again my first thought was: how awful that this is a play about women oppressing women. But as I’ve worked on it and started digging around I’ve realised that it’s about a circle of oppression. It doesn’t make it any less grim or more joyful to do but it does make it more understandable. I think that Bernarda Alba is looking to be free herself and that’s what makes her so cruel to her daughters. She’s a deeply frustrated woman.” Like Sealey, Hunter has looked to her own – in her case, Greek – family background to try to understand the play.“My parents had an arranged marriage. My mother was nothing like Bernarda Alba but she had a rage born of a vigorous intellect constrained by her situation. I see that in Bernarda Alba too and connect to it. She’s no psychopath but a woman maddened by repression who represses others in turn. It’s as if she’s caught in a vicious circle that can’t be broken.”This production matches disability politics with Lorca’s story about a woman and her daughters, which operated as a political metaphor about repression. “Lorca,” says Clifford, “wrote under the shadow of fascism and we are producing this at a time when the shadow of the right looms ever larger in Europe. Lorca was under pressure to suppress his sexuality and for me as a trans woman this story of someone trying to repress female energy feels very autobiographical. It’s an incredibly powerful cry for human rights.”The House of Bernarda Alba is at the Royal Exchange, Manchester, 3-25 February. Box office: 0161-833 9833.