I’ve always been very interested in theories of everything, and the venerable philosophical quest for an answer to the question: what is reality? My latest novel, A Field Guide to Reality, imagines a manual for fixing existential angst – a book that you might consult every time you were perplexed by some grand dilemma (Why am I here? Why is anyone else? What is the nature of truth? etc) and find therein a consoling, definitive answer. Alas, such a book can’t exist in our world, so I invented a parallel version of Oxford and handed the enterprise to a fictional professor. Even in my pseudo-reality this guidebook seemed so unlikely, so impossible, that it would have to be lost. So all the characters are urgently questing after it.If we are talking about reality, and what on earth that might be, then we are also talking about how we all perceive reality – and why and how we perceive anything at all. Light is the natural agent that stimulates sight and makes things visible. The world is illuminated and thus, we see. We stand briefly in the light, in our finite moment of reality, with the shadows of the past behind us, and the shadowy future ahead.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Perception Is a Prevailing Mystery Illustration: © Oly RalfeSo I thought illustrations might help the novel to invoke the manifold strangeness of perception, light, reality and the visual realm in a more, ahem, visual way. Besides, I love graphic philosophical novels such as Logicomix by Apostolos Doxiadis, Christos Papadimitriou and Alecos Papadatos, or The Unwritten by Mike Carey, as well as illustrated books such as Stardust by Neil Gaiman (with drawings by Charles Vess), Through the Woods by Emily Carroll and Psychogeography by Will Self (illustrated by Ralph Steadman). All narrative is glorious, of course, whether it comes as an ebook or a tangible folio, but I felt it would be fun to celebrate the physical book as an artefact as well. So I sent it over to the film-maker and musician Oly Ralfe, whose work I knew both from his animations for the Mighty Boosh and his own music videos. I also sent him a possibly unnerving series of images of gods and goddesses, pinecones, long-dead scientists, quantum equations, models of the universe and sketches of trees. Oly came to Oxford a few times so we could walk around the antiquarian motley streets and look at gargoyles, museums, misty parks and riverbanks. The team at Quercus forged alchemical bonds between roughly 50 of his beautiful, mysterious drawings and the text, even using a typeface called Poliphilus – derived from the Hypnerotomachia Poliphi – to evoke the medieval, quest-like elements of the novel.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Robert Grossetest Et Al Illustration: © Oly RalfeA key character among the questing medievalists is the 13th-century scholar Robert Grosseteste (Robert Bighead), the alleged first chancellor of Oxford University. Grosseteste of the alluringly self-satirising name was transfixed by the age-old questions of reality, perception and light. Plato argued for a theory of “extramission”, where light is “a mixture of the inner fire of the eye and the fire of the sun”, while Aristotle proposed instead that light does not come from the eye, but enters from the world beyond: “intromission”. But Grosseteste was also influenced by the work of the 11th-century Arab scholar, Ibn al-Haytham, or Alhazen. Under house arrest in Cairo, Alhazen observed light entering a darkened room through holes, illuminating clouds of floating dust, and realised that light travels in straight lines. Inspired by Alhazen’s observations of illuminated dust, Grosseteste presented an epistemology of light, a metaphysics of light, an etiology of light, and a theology of light. He described the birth of the universe in an explosion, and a further crystallisation of matter. All reality emerged, he said, from an expanding – and contracting – sphere of light. Another Oxford medieval scholar, Roger Bacon, believed that Light was the most extraordinary and intriguing of all realities – as if the wind became visible. Bacon also created a device that displayed shadows against a wall, terrifying his audiences with leering forms. For his unrivalled experimentation, Bacon was quite naturally accused of necromancy and consorting with the devil.Joanna Kavenna: ‘History is littered with people who have said, “This is the only reality”’ I imagined all these myriad versions of reality, vying in some metaphysical realm, and I had a further idea that if thought and memory could become tangible then Oxford would be abruptly full of former scholars, shuffling out of the shadows, enunciating their theories. Natural philosophers, alchemists, physicists, cartographers, genius women, some of them ignored and suppressed. Galilei Galileo, condemned by the inquisition, forced to recant. Isaac Newton, arguing that some colours are agreeable, such as gold and indigo, and others are not, and that light consists of rays and coloured rings. In the 19th century, using paper treated with silver chloride beneath coloured slabs of glass, mica and gems, Mary Somerville conducted experiments on the Sun’s “chemical rays”. On the grounds of her sex, she was not allowed to trouble the Royal Society with her work, so her husband, William, submitted her paper, On the Magnetising Power of the More Refrangible Solar Rays instead. In more recent times, we have heard that light consists of energy quanta that behave partly like waves and partly like particles. Or, atomies floating in rays, perhaps, and thus we might remember Alhazen, with his clouds of shining dust, and Newton’s rays and coloured rings as well.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Isaac Newton Illustration: © Oly RalfeNewton also decided, in contravention of earlier wisdom on the matter, that a rainbow must have seven colours, and not five or three. He even dismissed his own subjective perceptions of a rainbow, because he felt that seven was a more sublime and significant number. Illustrious members of the Royal Society dismissed Newton’s rainbow as fundamentally unreal. Yet now when we perceive a rainbow, we perceive it with seven colours, not five or three – at least, I do. Or I think I do. Such paradoxes are beautiful and profoundly disconcerting at the same time – if only there was an existential manual I could consult.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Double Rainbow Illustration: © Oly RalfeA Field Guide to Reality by Joanna Kavenna with illustrations by Oly Ralfe is published by Riverrun (£14.99). It is available from the Guardian bookshop for £12.29.