I’ve spent my entire life spelling my surname. I remember my brother, Miko, booking a cab within my father, Michal’s, earshot. When Miko was asked his surname, he said “Goodrich” [it’s “Gedroych”]. He put the phone down and Dad went ballistic. It had been instilled in all of us from a young age that our name was to be treated with the greatest of care. It’s the only thing Dad had when he came to this country from eastern Poland in 1947.My father describes himself as a Pole of Lithuanian descent. At Southampton University, he read aeronautical engineering and then the family moved to Hong Kong – this was before I was born – where he designed aeroplanes. Back in the UK, he worked as a civil engineer, although every spare minute was spent researching his family’s history. If you want to put psychobabble on it, I think it’s because he’d lost everything. This was a way of reclaiming his past and making it something he could pass down to us.He and I have a lot in common. We’re as tough as old boots and both have a good sense of humour. But then, as the youngest of four, I quickly worked out that the way to get noticed was by being funny, the annoying, weaselly voice that had to have the last word. For such a cerebral man – he speaks seven languages – it always surprises me that he shares my love of Les Dawson, Eric Morecambe and Danny La Rue – ribald, end-of-the-pier humour.My father met my mother, Rosemary, through her mother, a children’s book illustrator called Astrid who had formed a strong friendship with a Polish artist who knew my other grandmother from the old days in Poland. Astrid hoped my father might get together with one of her elder daughters but, as soon as he saw Rosemary at one of Astrid’s parties, he was smitten. Nothing happened for three years until she was 19.Family is everything to me. Miko is a musician and nine years older than me. He was my absolute hero as I was growing up. Then comes Kasia, the strongest of all of us, married to Philip Parham, British Ambassador to the United Arab Emirates; they have seven children. Next down is Coky, a TV director. She had jaundice as a baby and a little tuft of hair growing out of the top of her head. Miko took one look at her and said: “That’s not Mary Rose. That’s Mary Coconut.” The name stuck.We moved to Oxford from Leatherhead when I was 11 and Coky and I became really close. When she was at university in London, I’d go and stay with her. I was 13 and she introduced me to a world of cool. She allowed me to design a set for a student film she was making. I was her runner, her caterer; I was in charge of the extras one day and makeup another. She was my gateway to adulthood.Mum was in her early 50s when she had four strokes in quick succession that almost took her off. I’d just come down from Cambridge with a rubbish degree. I spent a year reading to her – her eyesight was badly affected – and making sure she got proper rest. It was a special time but very intense, too.In these days of helicopter parenting, hovering over your children from dawn to dusk, I’m reminded of Mum who allowed me a long rein. Flo is 13, Vita, 12, and I’m forever telling myself to butt out of every aspect of their lives. Because I work hard and because my TV director husband Ben [Morris] is so brilliant around the house – he’s known as Military Dad – I hope the girls are getting a balanced view of life. There’s an invisible rein, but I like to think it’s made of elastic.• Mel Giedroyc is starring in a new American play, Luce, by JC Lee at Southwark Playhouse