Two mackerel glistening on crushed ice. Stiff as boards, shining blue and black and silver. Fish so fresh I shall not even show them the bars of the grill. Their flesh, so sweet and firm, will instead be eaten raw, diced and tossed with something crisp (cucumber maybe, or apple) and dressed very gingerly with Japanese pepper and a squirt of lime.Once I have the fish at home, filleted by the fishmonger and its annoying pin bones removed with kitchen tweezers, I change my mind about the cucumber and toss the diced fish with shredded kohlrabi as crisp as a Granny Smith. The seasoning is shichimi togarashi, the table condiment almost as popular in Japan as black pepper is here. It usually contains ground chilli, sesame, orange peel, ginger and nori, but there are variations. Think hot, sweet and aromatic. We pile the mackerel on to tissue-thin crackers.A day or two later, there is a tartare of meat, too. A piece of lean, raw steak dressed with eye-watering fresh horseradish and the salty warmth of anchovy. And there is raw asparagus at its side, crisp and snappy, tossed with a mustardy dressing. The oven is having a well-earned rest.Tartare of mackerel and kohlrabiI like some thin croutes or crackers with this, such as carta di musica. To skin the mackerel, place a fillet, skin-side down, on a chopping board. Holding the tail end with your thumb and finger, slide the knife in as close to your finger as you can, then, keeping the blade as flat to the skin as possible, slide it between flesh and skin, slicing the flesh away from the skin. Use only fresh fish and keep it cold at all times.Serves 4 as a starter or light lunch kohlrabi 75g lemon juice 2 tbspmackerel fillet 350gpickled sushi ginger 6 pieces togarashi seasoning 1-2 tsp to tastelime juice 2 tspshoyu sauce 3-4 tsp to tasteshiso leaves (optional, to serve)For the salad:samphire 75gcherry tomatoes 200gmirin 25mllime juice 2 tspsesame oil ½ tspCut any long stems and leaves from the kohlrabi. You don’t need to peel it if the skin is pale and thin. Squeeze the lemon juice into a mixing bowl. Grate the kohlrabi on the coarse teeth of a grater into the juice, tossing gently to coat and to prevent the white flesh from discolouring. The fish, so sweet and firm, will be eaten raw, diced and tossed with something crisp Using a very sharp, thin cook’s knife, remove the skin from the mackerel. Chop the flesh finely. How finely you do this is up to you, but I prefer it somewhere between fine dice and coarse mince. Much depends on how dextrous you are with your knife.Shred the ginger and add it to the fish. Gently fold the togarashi seasoning, lime juice and shoyu sauce into the fish then introduce the kohlrabi, tossing it all together without mashing the fish. Cover and chill in the refrigerator for an hour.Rinse the samphire in cold water then put it into a bowl of cold water and ice for 30 minutes to crisp up. To make the salad accompaniment, remove the stalks from the tomatoes, then cut each in half or quarters depending on their size. In a small bowl mix together the mirin, lime juice and sesame oil.Remove the samphire from the iced water, shake it dry, then add to the tomatoes. Pour the dressing over, toss it all together and chill until needed.To serve, place the shiso or salad leaves on a long serving plate, then add a few spoonfuls of the tartare on each. Serve with the tomato salad.Beef with asparagus      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nigel Slater’s beef with asparagus recipe. Photograph: Jonathan Lovekin for the ObserverThe pickled cucumber is available from Asian stores and online, but you could use the usual European, less salty, ones if you prefer. The steak is up to you. Flank is good if you can find it, fillet if you can afford it.rump steak 450gparsley 5gcucumber ½, smallJapanese pickled cucumber 3 tspanchovy fillets 3 horseradish root a short piece, fresh For the salad:Dijon mustard 2 tspwater 25mlolive oil 50mlwhite-wine vinegar 2 tspspring onions 3parsley leaves a small handfulasparagus 8 spearsThe meat needs to be very cold. Slice it thinly, then put the slice on a plate and leave to chill in the freezer for 20 minutes. You just need to thoroughly chill and firm the meat.Remove the leaves from the parsley, chop them quite finely, and put them in a mixing bowl. Roughly chop the pickled cucumber and add it to the parsley. Pat the anchovy with kitchen paper to remove any excess oil or salt then chop it finely and add it to the parsley. Grate 1 tbsp of fresh horseradish into the mixing bowl and toss the ingredients together.Remove the meat from the freezer and cut into very fine dice. Fold the beef into the parsley and anchovy mixture. Cover with clingfilm and chill in the fridge.Make the dressing: put the mustard, water, olive oil and white-wine vinegar into a jar, tighten the lid and shake it vigorously to mix. Remove the toughest of the green shoots from the spring onion and discard, then finely slice the white and pale green stems and add to the dressing.Slice each piece of asparagus into two or three short lengths, then cut each piece in half lengthways. Toss the asparagus in the dressing and set aside.To serve: place small piles of the beef on to plates, then at their side put large spoonfuls of the asparagus salad.Email Nigel at nigel.slater@observer.co.uk or follow him on Twitter @NigelSlater