You can catch Gabby Douglas on television again next month, though you won’t see her performing a routine on the uneven bars. Instead, the Olympic gold medalist will judge the 2017 Miss America pageant in Atlantic City next month.“Miss America has been such an amazing event for so many years and I am excited to have the opportunity to judge the competition this year,” Douglas told USA Today in a statement on Monday. “The contestants are a great example of strong women across America and I especially look forward to hearing the platforms that each of them will represent!”Gabby Douglas's lesson from the US national anthem outcry: conform or else | Dave Schilling The announcement came a day after the closing ceremony of the Rio Olympics, where Douglas, 20, won her third Olympic gold medal with her team. She was the first American all-around champion to qualify for a second Olympic team and one of two US gymnasts to win back-to-back golds, according to the Associated Press.In Rio, Douglas has faced an onslaught of online abuse over her appearance and a perceived lack of patriotism after she stood at attention during the national anthem instead of placing her hand over her heart. Critics claimed she wasn’t enthusiastic enough. As a result, she stayed off social media during the Games.“I sit back and I don’t know why. I’m just like, what?” the Olympic champion said in a press conference during the Games. “When they talk about my hair, or me not putting my hand on my heart, or me being very salty in the stands and really criticizing me … It really doesn’t feel good. For me it was a little bit hurtful.” The hounding of Gabby Douglas: an unworthy end for a great American champion However, her new position with the Miss America pageant seems to continue her streak of good news which began before the Rio Olympics. In July, a Barbie doll was made in her likeness to honor her achievements. Earlier this year, a documentary series on the gold medalist and her family aired on Oxygen.Additional judges will be announced in the coming weeks. For now, Douglas will be joining businessman Mark Cuban, actress Sara Foster, musician Cole Swindell, musician and actress Laura Marano and former Miss America Sharlene Wells Hawkes at the judge’s table. On Twitter, users were positive about the Olympian’s new role. “She won 3 #goldmedals I dont know how she’ll be impressed by anyone else,” one woman wondered.