The van arrived at the village hall at 2.30pm sharp, ready for the two actors and the stage manager to start arranging the lights and sound before the evening performance. But the hall had been double-booked, and the bridge club were inside, refusing to budge. This happened last week on our production of This Land, a new play about fracking and energy that tours the country over the next few months. It’s a classic example of the unexpected trials and delights you find when making theatre for community spaces rather than theatres. The space isn’t automatically ours just because we’re the “artists”. It’s a shared space – theirs, ours, everyone’s. It’s a space people rightly feel connected to and proprietorial over because they know it so well. It’s where they go for birthday parties, pilates, music nights, parish meetings or, indeed, bridge club. It’s a space packed with recollections of great nights out, a community memory bank.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the trailer for This LandPlenty of people experience theatre in this kind of venue instead of (or as well as) more traditional theatre venues. Their reasons for going to a play in the village hall are varied and nuanced. It’s about seeing shows close up, supporting the hall, championing the community, thanking the promoter, seeking out more shared memories. It’s also about having direct personal contact with the artists, watching them set up, eating together, talking to them afterwards, even helping with the get-out. Audiences often span generations, coming together to experience the same event. It would be a mistake to assume these audiences don’t crave and recognise quality in the same way an urban audience might. The rural touring circuit has masses of excellent theatre, music, comedy and dance. Audiences are sophisticated, intelligent, aware. They are also refreshingly non-cynical, culturally engaged but not culturally saturated. Not trying to boast about or snobbily dismiss what they’ve seen, but wanting to understand the artist’s intentions, to properly engage with the ideas presented and discuss them with the actors and each other afterwards.Not cosy, not safe, no tractors: the plays redefining rural theatre We commission new plays specifically for village-hall audiences. We believe in taking plays with local relevance into the heart of a community. The promoter is always taking a big risk by booking an unknown new play (often about an emotive issue), so we have a responsibility to work with the promoter and their audience long before the show itself, and long afterwards too. This means our writers see plays in village halls, talk to audiences and promoters, research and test ideas in community spaces. The writer’s contract can include technical necessities such as “there must be an interval” (village halls need to make bar money), as well as creative ones such as “you can’t do fourth-wall naturalism”, as it would be strange to pretend the audience isn’t there. Our producer runs copy, title and image ideas past trusted promoters before we go to print. It’s the same for our design teams. There are clauses in their contracts about get-in and get-out times – crucial when you’re doing months of one-night touring. Designers make a model box of the van, so we know the set will fit and can work out the best way to pack it. Actors practise get-ins and outs as part of rehearsals.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Community spirit … This Land. Photograph: Richard Stanton.It all means the art and the process of making it is specific to village halls. This forges a deeper connection between the work and the audience, with shared responsibility and investment. We all take the risk together. Which is crucial if we want to keep small-scale touring dynamic and current. We don’t always get it right, but we’re trying to plan better, react quicker and listen deeper.And the bridge club? Well, after a short negotiation, the game finished as the set was being (quietly) brought in. Everyone had a cup of tea, and the club members came to the show in the evening. Community space shared communally, for the benefit of everyone. This Land, a co-production by Pentabus and Salisbury Playhouse, is at the Ledbury Market theatre on 18 March, the Worcester Arts Workshop on 19 March, then touring until May.