Has any comic book icon in history proven quite so controversial as Robin, Batman’s perennial sidekick, occasional ward, and partner in crime-fighting? Chris O’Donnell’s paper-thin portrayal of Dick Grayson (along with George Clooney’s Batnipples and a script from the seventh layer of Hades) saw Joel Schumacher rudely ejected from the directorial hot seat after 1997’s critically reviled Batman & Robin. The sometime teen titan was so unpopular with fans that they voted to kill off the Jason Todd incarnation in the 1988-89 comic book story arc A Death in the Family. And so uncertain was Christopher Nolan about bringing back the perky superhero that he hid Joseph Gordon-Levitt’s version behind the unimposing moniker Sgt John Blake for almost all of 2012’s The Dark Knight Rises.Magic Mike's Joe Manganiello to play Deathstroke in solo Batman movie Why then is Ryan Potter, the brilliant young Asian American star of Disney’s Big Hero 6, touting himself to play the Dark Knight’s sidekick in the upcoming stand-alone Ben Affleck–directed Batman movie? Potter has posted a short film of himself taking down bad guys in style, signing off with the line: “Hey Ben, like Tim said, Batman needs a Robin.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The short answer seems to be that viral videos are the fastest way to get Hollywood bigwigs to prick up their ears in 2016 – just ask Deadpool’s Ryan Reynolds. The long one is that Potter sees Tim Drake as the ideal boy wonder to make a return in Affleck’s new Batman movie, and also reckons it’s about time an Asian American actor like himself got a plum role in the new DC expanded universe. He’s certainly made a convincing case thus far.“Marvel has done a really amazing job lately of adding a lot more diversity to their universe,” Potter, who is half Japanese, half Caucasian, told the Hollywood Reporter after his video went viral. “One thing I noticed about the DC universe is it’s very one note at the moment in terms of age and diversity.”The 21-year-old, who says he has been turned down for roles for not being “white” or “Asian” enough, added: “I fall into this paradox where ‘either you get a little too much of this or a little too much of that’ … I thought it would be absolutely amazing to see an Asian American face in that cast.”Potter seized upon Drake because he believes he bears some resemblance to the third Robin, who debuted in 1989 in the comics and held the mantle 20 years before rebranding himself as Red Robin seven years ago. But is the world really ready for Batman’s oft-reviled sidekick to return to the big screen? And is Affleck at all likely to bring him back in his debut solo outing as Gotham’s furrow-browed, steely-eyed defender?Deathstroke: the perfect Batman villain for DC's vision of violence? To answer the first question, it’s clear that attitudes towards comic book movies have been transformed since Robin became persona non grata in Gotham almost two decades ago. Marvel has shown that superheroes don’t have to be toned down, Nolan-style, to be successful. In fact, the Disney-owned studio is ploughing ahead with big-screen debuts for some of the most far-out comic book creations in history, namely Benedict Cumberbatch’s Doctor Strange and the African hero Black Panther. So why not Robin? And why not Tim Drake?If director Zack Snyder was following comic book canon, it seems likely the version of the boy wonder who died in Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice, most likely at the hands of the Joker, was the much-hated Todd iteration. According to the timeline seen in the comics, Drake should be next to inherit the moniker, though DC might easily throw us a curveball by reintroducing Dick Grayson, or even the female Robin, Carrie Kelley, from the famous 1986 Frank Miller graphic novel The Dark Knight Returns. Nolan’s decision to shelve Robin for 2005’s Batman Begins was entirely sensible as he retooled Batman for the 21st century, jettisoning the superhero’s fantasy trappings and returning him to his hardboiled late 1930s origins. But Warner Bros’ upcoming slate includes DC Comics movies based on superheroes as whimsical and fanciful as Aquaman, Shazam and Green Lantern. With such an eccentric cavalcade of costumed titans set to debut in multiplexes, it surely no longer makes any sense to keep the caped crusader’s long-term sidekick on ice.Must Robin really remain firmly locked away in the deepest vault of the Batcave, his name never to be mentioned in polite company again? Or is it finally time for comic book fans to forgive and forget? This piece was amended on 14 September 2016; Frank Miller, not Alan Moore, wrote The Dark Knight Returns. 