Tove Lo is not having a good day. This morning, after a night of karaoke in Seattle with Maroon 5, she had a phone interview with a fellow Swede. She very nearly hung up on him. “He was so condescending,” she says, exasperated. “By the end of it I was just like, ‘You know what? You obviously have a very set image of what you think of me, so let’s just end this.’ He was like, ‘OK, I didn’t get much time anyway …’ No, because you fucking don’t deserve it.”When we meet in a secluded corner of the Ace hotel in Portland, ahead of her performance in the city tonight, Lo is still reeling from the encounter. What frustrated her the most, she says, is that he had arrived clutching so tightly to his own misconceptions. “I just know he’s gonna angle this into me not being a serious artist. I was thinking all the time, ‘You would fucking not be this way if you were talking to a man right now.’”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Three years after her self-released single Habits (Stay High) exploded, Lo has become all too familiar with condescension. With lyrics both wryly funny and desperately bleak, the song documented her flailing, substance-fuelled attempts to numb the pain of a break-up. “You’re gone and I gotta stay high all the time,” she sang in the song’s chorus, “to keep you off my mind.” With a precision that only Robyn has mastered with quite such delicacy, Habits was a heartbreak song you could dance to. And yet the conversation around it, and the singles that followed, seemed to focus on two things: the sex and the drugs.“There’s one line about that, and then there’s 14 other songs that I wrote,” she says of the song’s opening lyric: “I eat my dinner in my bathtub, then I go to sex clubs.”She had no idea that her candidness would provoke such a strong reaction, nor that her debut album, Queen of the Clouds, would do the same. Sure, its overt sexuality was playfully on the nose at times – “If you love me right, we fuck for life,” she sings in Talking Body – but, she insists, she’s hardly in uncharted waters. “We’ve heard that in music since I don’t know when. I just feel for me, sex and music have always been very connected. Being open about being a woman, and being open about sex, is not a bad thing. And the other thing is like, would they ever ask a guy this? Ever?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lo’s second album.“I feel like I grew up in a place where nudity and sex is something natural and not shameful. Here [in the US] they’re like: ‘Oh, you’re a bad girl, aren’t you? You go against the rules.’ That’s not at all what I’m trying to say or do here. It’s about just not feeling like it’s something bad. All of a sudden, I’m fighting this fight I didn’t know I needed to fight.”Not that Lo has taken this as reason to tone things down on her new album, Lady Wood, with its winking title and the accompanying artwork – a closeup of her hand pulling down on her own shorts, the Os of Tove Lo shaped like vaginas. It was inspired by the Rolling Stones’ Sticky Fingers cover, though the Swedish interviewer from this morning, to Lo’s chagrin, assumed she was copying Madonna.Thematically, the album treads similar ground to its predecessor, but with a self-referential smirk on its face. On the title track, whose minimalist clicks and sparse, elastic beats vaguely resemble modern dancehall, she sings, “I know what people say about you, they say the same about me,” a nod to the reputation she has garnered. Flashes, a darker take on the effect her increased fame and attention has had on those around her, points out that when she “fucks things up” a camera flashes.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The seeds for the album’s infectious lead single, Cool Girl, came from the monologue Rosamund Pike’s character Amy makes in Gone Girl. Dripping with sarcasm, the song lambasts the faux-breeziness that people – particularly women – are expected to project at the start of a relationship. “No, let’s not put a label on it / Let’s keep it fun,” she insists, tongue-in-cheek, teeth gritted, “I’m a cool girl, I’m a, I’m a cool girl / Ice cold, I roll my eyes at you, boy.” She has been on both sides of it – the one trying too hard not to show her hand, and the one unwittingly hurting the other person. Both, she believes, could be avoided if people were less guarded with their feelings. “I feel like emotion is seen as a bad thing, where it should be the opposite. We just live like this, making ourselves smaller, to not bother each other. You’re not supposed to be too loud, and [there are] all these rules about how your emotional state should be, and it’s just – it doesn’t really make sense. That’s why we’re all bottled up to here with shit.” I’m putting all my flaws, all my dirty laundry, out for everyone to see, because that’s how I work through it It’s not something she has ever been particularly good at either, bottling up her emotions – though she tried for a while. “From a very young age I felt very out of place. I did have a really dark mind and I would notice when I started talking about those things … it would not be the best of moments. So I was like: ‘OK, I probably shouldn’t.’ It’s very different what goes on up here,” she points a tattooed hand to her head, “and what you see out here, and I think my music and making videos, that shows the more intense side of me that I’ve kind of shaved off growing up, because it was never really OK to be that person. But when I’m creative, that’s when I feel fully free to be that.”In person, that intensity comes only in flashes. “I think when people meet me they’re like: ‘She’s gonna be a fucking mess or just crying or stoned out of her mind’,” she laughs. She is, as far as I can tell, neither of these things. Now more relaxed after venting about this morning’s interview, she sits in a Lady Wood emblazoned onesie, her legs tucked beneath her as she sips an almond coffee (“I’ve gone from six a day to one a day, I think that’s pretty good”). So unguarded is her presence that it’s easy to forget this is a professional encounter. Perhaps that’s why she has found herself hit with some wildly inappropriate questions over the years – that, and the fact that people take her lyrical candour as licence to intrude.Female fury and a gangster in a dress: meet the pop stars toppling gender stereotypes “I remember sometimes thinking, ‘How the fuck did they know that about me?’” she says of interviewers’ tendency to ask invasive questions. “And then it’s like, ‘Oh yeah, because it’s in the fucking song.’” Still, there’s a difference between what she’s willing to sing about, and what she’s willing to divulge in conversation with a stranger. “For me to sit down with someone I’ve never met before and [for them to say], ‘So, pick up daddies at the playground?’ I’m like, ‘Yeah, do you want me to tell you about when I was way too young and dated this really old – this dad that I met? It’s not …” She trails off and exhales something between a sigh and a laugh.It may not make sense to most people – this willingness to expose herself lyrically, to express her imperfections, her sexuality and her darkness on stage to thousands of people in a way she can’t in everyday life. But for Lo, it’s the only way she can make sense of things. “I’m putting all my flaws, all my dirty laundry, just out for everyone to see, because that’s how I work through it. I don’t know why but it’s just how I deal with it. It makes me move on.”• Lady Wood is released on Polydor on 28 October