The birth of Willy Wonka predated Gene Wilder’s embodiment of him by seven years. Dahl’s book Charlie and the Chocolate Factory first appeared in 1964; Mel Stuart’s retitled adaptation came in 1971. But with Wilder’s passing last week, the world also mourned the passing of the man synonymous with that of the mercurial candy man.Widely seen and deeply felt, Wilder’s portrayal of the man behind the world’s strangest chocolate factory resonated with children everywhere – but also in the hearts and minds of inchoate pastry chefs who were inspired by the edible teacup and everlasting gobstopper. Rarely mentioned as a food movie, per se, Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory inspired generations to enter into a world of pure imagination. As a kid, you’re supposed to identify with Charlie Bucket but I grew up wanting to be Willy WonkaDaniel Skurnick Daniel SkurnickPastry chef, Le Coucou, New YorkAs a kid, you’re supposed to identify with Charlie Bucket but I grew up wanting to be Willy Wonka. Now, as someone who works in the kitchen, I recognize Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory as the ultimate food movie. It has everything we deal with in our professional lives: disputes with labor, doing paper work in a cramped office, mass production in a factory setting, recipe development, innovation and technology. There’s cleaning and maintenance after Augustus Gloop contaminates the chocolate river.  But as a kid, it gave me permission to think that maybe it’s not so bad to cloister yourself away, as Wonka did, to create fantastical magical creations. As pastry chefs, I like to say we’re back of back of house. But we know what we do will reach the right hands. Jacques TorresChocolate maker, Jacques TorresAs a Frenchman, I didn’t grow up with this movie. I saw it only when I came to America in my thirties. But Wilder did have a big influence on every professional because he transformed his profession into a dream. He conveyed a fantasy of the profession. That’s his legacy. Though I didn’t see it until I was grown up, he still taught me that the world of chocolate is very much like a dream. It doesn’t have to be that serious. I once met Wilder one day on the plane going to Europe. I said, “My name is Jacques Torres, I’m Mr Chocolate.” He was very kind. He taught us to keep everything whimsical and innocent and honest Ron PaprockiPastry chef, Gotham Bar and Grill, New YorkI was a huge Gene Wilder fan from Silver Streak, Blazing Saddles, Young Frankenstein and Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. I saw it a few years after it came out, probably when I was six or seven years old. It has meant more to me as I’ve grown older. Especially when I started my professional life. It’s a sort of permission to find fantasy in food, especially sweets.He taught us to keep everything whimsical and innocent and honest. And yet, there was an undercurrent of complexity. Take, for example, the everlasting gobstopper to the three course dinner chewing gum. Something that appeared very neutral was so complex. Carrying that theme into desserts, as pastry chefs we want to create a dessert that is not only memorable but also with a twist. Doing a classic with a modern twist – like our Black Forest dessert we’re running now – is certainly a legacy of Wonka. He was the early culinary pioneer if you will.  What Wonka did with the manipulation of expectation, is exactly what so many chefs are chasing today.Alex Stupak Alex StupakChef and owner Empellon, New YorkThe scene that stands out to me and is my favorite in the movie is when Gene Wilder is singing and he stops for a minute and he picks up this little teacup flower. It’s a butter cup. He takes a sip out of it and then he eats the cup. I watched that movie when I was young and I had no idea what surrealism was. But that idea – that things don’t need to be what they seem – always stuck with me. Before elBulli’s Ferran Adrià or Heston Blumenthal, it was in that film. What Wonka did with simple concepts of reversalism and the manipulation of expectation, is exactly what those (and so many other) chefs are chasing today.The other aspect was that though Wonka dealt in fantasy and pleasure for children and adults alike, Wilder injected a healthy dose of dark sarcasm. It alludes to something in general in the food industry that usually the person trying to make everyone happy could be a little crazy. They’re definitely driven by ego and there’s a ton of hard work that goes on behind the scenes. The encouragement to play with your food has always rung true for me.Wylie Dufresne Wylie DufresneChef and owner, wd-50, New YorkI’ve seen Willy Wonka many, many times in my youth and as recently as last week. My kids love it, especially my younger daughter who is about to turn four. Willy Wonka has always inspired me, especially in terms of my approach to cooking. The encouragement to play with your food has always rung true for me. I love the concept of compound flavors which Wonka embodied in a chewing gum that contained an entire a Thanksgiving meal all the way to desert. You can see that influence in things like Grant Achatz pre-Alinea postage stamp-size pizza. But more generally, any time someone tells you you can think freely or encourages you to experiment, to think creatively, to have fun, to be playful, we can thank Mr Wilder as well as people like myself for legitimate ideas and inspiration. What fascinated me as a kid was the idea of candy being more than something you ate but rather, an engulfing experience Dana CreeExecutive pastry chef, The Publican, ChicagoTo me Willy Wonka was the fairy princess story. There’s a storyline that’s fed to girls, that a normal girl that she’s actually a princess and discovers this royal world waiting for me. Willy Wonka was that story to me. I wanted to discover I was actually an heir to the candy throne. What fascinated me as a kid was the idea of candy being more than something you ate but being, rather, an engulfing experience. I don’t know if I ever licked the walls of my room, but I remember I dreamed about it and I remember begging my mother to let me have a Willy Wonka birthday party. We were going to transform my basement into the Pure Imagination room. It never came to fruition.I grew up north of Seattle. We didn’t have a lot of money growing up so I related quite a bit to Charlie. I used to hate watching that song Cheer up, Charlie. They had to eat lettuce soup which, I thought, meant they must have been the poorest of the poor. That stuck with me: the fear of lettuce soup. Now I’ve been at Michelin three star restaurants and have been served lettuce soup. Everyone thought, “Oooh, avant garde.” But I realized it was triggering an actual fear of becoming that poor.One lasting effect of Wonka on my work is embodied in the that edible teacup. Wonka picks it up, drinks the nectar and the the cup itself becomes a piece of candy. It’s triple-fold: you think it’s one thing, it looks like something else and it’s actually a third. Those elements of wonder and childlike-surprise are something that I still strive for. We just put a cookie jar on the menu at the Publican. I went and collected cookie jars I loved, you can order cookies for the table, you can open it and their eyes just light up, you’re like a kid again.Daniel BurnsFormer pastry chef, Noma and The Fat Duck; chef and co-owner Luksus in New York CityWilly Wonka and the Chocolate Factory was pretty crucial to my childhood. I vividly remember the circus of sweets, the opulence of the factory’s rooms. When I was working at The Fat Duck, we were very inspired by Roald Dahl, whose writing studio was just minutes from Bray, the small town in which the restaurant is located. Many of [pastry chef] Jocky Petrie’s desserts were inspired by Dahl’s work from Mrs Marshall’s Margaret coronet, a ice-cream cone of Lilliputian proportion, to the BFG, a Black Forest Gateau that could just as easily been called the Big Friendly Giant. 