What: the new basicWho: Céline Dion.Céline Dion in Vetements.Get the look: Playing the original motifs of basic – matching tracksuit, generic sunglasses, generic hair, fancy bag – but wearing them together, deliberately and – crucially – with irony. The paradigm is Dion wearing a Vetements hoodie alongside her usual Basic accoutrements. Vetements nailed this concept when it “collaborated” with Juicy Couture on a velour tracksuit, recasting basic as something desirable. Not to be confused with: Sainsbury’s basics (easy mistake).Playlist: Super Natural – Danny L Harle (not basic) featuring Carly Rae Jepsen (basic).Most likely to say: “Is that Vetements x Couture?”Least likely to say: “Is that Juicy Couture x Vetements?”What: manic pixie queen girl Who: Jenna Coleman.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jenna Coleman in ITV’s Victoria. Photograph: ITV PlcGet the look: The Manic Pixie Dream Girl trope gets a royal upgrade as Coleman swaps the Tardis for Buckingham Palace in ITV’s new Sunday-night drama. For Victoria: the early years, the look we’re going for is all off-the-shoulder big dresses and bling headwear, in the style of more-is-more Balenciaga.Not to be confused with: Emily Blunt, Claire Foy, Helen Mirren. Playlist: Royals – Lorde; Victoria – The Kinks; Empire State of Mind – Alicia Keys.Most likely to say: “We are not a muse.”Least likely to say: “Come at the queen, you best not miss.”What: mum-coreWho: Bad Moms.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Get the look: High-waisted “Mom” jeans, Lululemon yoga gear, Brooks running shoes left over from the last half-marathon, glass of white wine. This is the PTA-team, where school run meets normcore; a lack of vanity movement so basic that it’s beyond basic. Think dadcore with better multitasking: the Elaine to dadcore’s Jerry.Not to be confused with: Mumblecore, dadcore, parkour.Playlist: Run the World - Beyoncé; Hey Mama - Kanye West.Most likely to say: “Baden-Baden.”Least likely to say: “Boden-Boden.”What: sadgirlWho: Phoebe Waller-Bridge in Fleabag.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Phoebe Waller-Bridge writer and star of Fleabag. Photograph: BBCGet the look: There are two camps: one is crap clothes and cryliner (see Fleabag). The other is not-pink-pink, hyper-feminine clothes and more cryliner (see artist Audrey Wollen). In layman’s terms, Sad Girls (like Sad Boys) are girls showing their feelings because it’s 2016 and they jolly well should.Not to be confused with: The girls in The Girls who are also sad but, frankly, brought it on themselves.Playlist: Original sad girl – Britney Spears, Glory.Most likely to say: “Tears for fears!”Least likely to say: “Fear the tears!”