Red Nose Day 2017 7pm, BBC1The stage of the O2 in Greenwich is the new home for the Comic Relief charity fundraising extravaganza. Here the hosts include Lenny Henry, Jonathan Ross and Sally Phillips, while those doing a turn include Dawn French and Jennifer Saunders, Vic Reeves and Bob Mortimer and Ed Sheeran. We can also look forward to James Corden’s Car Pool Karaoke with Take That, Greg Davies over on BBC2 and the cast of Love Actually in Red Nose Day Actually. Dig deep. Jonathan WrightUnreported World 7.30pm, Channel 4In the old Soviet Union, a citizen could be prosecuted for religious observance. Now, as Marcel Theroux discovers, times have changed in Russia – particularly for Vladimir Putin, who sees the church as a means to align himself with traditional Russian values. Marcel meets “Putin’s brain”, Aleksandr Dugin, and investigates the idea that, in apparently backing religion, Putin has merely discovered a way to clamp down on dissent. John RobinsonLethal Weapon 9pm, ITVThis uncalled-for TV adaptation of the buddy-cop movie franchise would have been a total disaster were it not for its hard-working leads. Comic veteran Damon Wayans is a slicker, more sarcastic Murtaugh than Danny Glover, while Clayne Crawford – formerly of the sombre drama Rectify – reimagines Mel Gibson’s suicidal Riggs as a quizzical hobo-cop with a Magnum moustache. Tonight, the duo investigate a series of robberies in Murtaugh’s well-heeled ’hood. Graeme VirtueGogglebox 9pm, Channel 4There’s no stopping the nation’s sofa-based commentators, whose telly musings are a Friday-night staple. Some are so dippy they water their plastic plants or are under the impression the UK voted for “Britvic” last summer, but that does nothing to dampen their appeal. As ever, the older Gogglists such as Leon and June bring warmth while the families bring plenty of cross-generational laughs. As comforting as a cup of hot chocolate poured into a slipper. Hannah VerdierRoy Orbison: One of the Lonely Ones9pm, BBC4Johnny Cash may have been the Man in Black, but Roy Orbison actually seemed to dwell in darkness; his last hurrah at the tail-end of the 80s was all the more poignant for being so short-lived. This profile of the Texan with the fragile countenance and operatic lungs sheds new light on his rocky life and career; a greatest hits concert from 1988 (the year he died) follows. Ali Catterall Street Science 10pm, DiscoveryHairy science dude Kevin Delaney and his hairy cameraman dude friend, Darren Dyk, present a series of totally awesome experiments with the help of the people of Florida. The staff of a hair salon agree that soap and hydrogen peroxide reacting exothermically to produce masses of foam is awesome; at a craft brewery, capped bottles of liquid nitrogen explode, awesomely. Amid all the slow-mos, recaps and affirmations, there’s not actually very much, you know, science. Jack SealeFilm choiceFury (David Ayer, 2014), 9pm, Channel 5Brad Pitt as taciturn tank commander “Wardaddy” Collier leads this second world war film in the tradition of Saving Private Ryan. Logan Lerman is a scared young clerk warily taken under the veteran’s wing when he is plunged into action. The weary crew, having fought their way through France, make a somewhat cliched stand at a nameless German crossroads; the combat is muddy, bloody and brutal. Paul HowlettLive sportPremiership Rugby Union: Bristol v Gloucester 7pm, BT Sport 1. Coverage of the game at Ashton Gate.World Cup Football: Republic of Ireland v Wales 7pm, Sky Sports 1. Wales look to build on their summer 2016 heroics in France against group leaders Ireland.Test Cricket: India v Australia 3.50am, Sky Sports 2. The fourth Test begins at the ridiculously picturesque HPCA Stadium in Dharamsala.