Botticelli’s Impact: From Warhol To Lady Gaga, LondonThe 506 years since Sandro Botticelli’s death have seen the Italian high renaissance artist’s reputation fall, rise, and rise further. A very talented painter in a time of giants, his name was eclipsed for many years by Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo and Raphael, until the Victorians blew the dust off his frescos and looked again at his portraits of the rich, beautiful and famous. The British pre-Raphaelite Rossetti wrote a poem about him, and the French impressionist Degas sketched a Venus after Botticelli’s most famous work. The V&A’s new blockbuster show opens this week (Sat to 3 Jul), tracking the old master’s work alongside that of those he inspired, from art photographers such as Cindy Sherman to pop artists including Andy Warhol and pop stars like Lady Gaga. Christie’s art historian Andrew Spira will be delivering this lecture on how and why Botticelli’s work echoes through the centuries.Milk & Honey, W1, ThuCJCaitlin Moran: Moranifesto, On tourCaitlin Moran’s most recent novel, How To Build A Girl, saw the first tentative stirrings of a critical backlash. But the thing about Moran is that she’s versatile, prolific and relentless. Not feeling the novel? Try the sitcom. But particularly, try the columns, where she’s probably at her best as a writer: sharp, playful, perceptive and sometimes deceptively angry. Her latest book, the grandly titled Moranifesto, sees her drag the pick of her recent columns out from behind the Times’ paywall and blinking into the light. They’re interspersed with some new writing and presented as a sort of state-of-the-nation address. In London, she’ll be reading choice extracts – with subjects ranging from affordable housing to feminism, and from social media to the Olympics – as well as taking part in a Q&A with the Southbank Centre’s artistic director Jude Kelly, before discussing the book in Birmingham and Bath later in the week.Royal Festival Hall, SE1, Tue; Town Hall, Birmingham, Wed; The Forum, Bath, ThuPHMen Are The Losers Now, ManchesterManchester’s Wonder Women festival (to 13 Mar) is mainly concerned with women’s issues, with talks on female representation in Victorian art and young adult literature on this year’s programme. However, there are also explorations of male identity: as well as Bryony Kimmings’s black comedy Fake It ’Til You Make It, in which she and boyfriend Tim explore his depression, this Discuss Manchester and Guardian Live event sees a panel including writer and transgender activist Kate O’Donnell debate the challenges facing 21st-century boys. While mainstream feminism has created new spaces for female discourse, topics such as sexuality and mental health are still largely concealed behind stiff upper lips and Lynx-scented lad-dom where men are concerned. But is this binary entrenched in childhood, are masculine pressures as strong as ever, and to what extent does the progress of men affect women?People’s History Museum, TueHD