London’s Southbank Centre is surely ambitious. Its 2016-17 classical music season will embrace life, the universe and pretty much everything in between.Central to the plans, which were announced on Thursday, are two leading partnerships. A digital collaboration with the Philharmonia, and a year-long festival, Belief and Beyond Belief, with the London Philharmonic Orchestra. The season will open in September with the Philharmonia’s “digital takeover” of the Royal Festival’s Hall’s public spaces in what will be a virtual reality first for a UK symphony orchestra. Between 23 and 25 September, visitors will be able to don virtual-reality headsets and earphones and be transported to the middle of the Philharmonia Orchestra, where they will get a 360-degree view of principal conductor Esa-Pekka Salonen leading his musicians through the closing minutes of Sibelius’s Fifth Symphony. Extra behind-the-scenes footage and vertiginous views from the top of the Festival Hall, looking down over the stage, will give visitors an extraordinary glimpse inside the sights of sounds of a symphony orchestra in full flow.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Insider view … a Royal Festival Hall visitor wearing a virtual reality headset. Photograph: Southbank CentreSalonen, whose orchestra has been at the forefront of digital innovation in classical music, spoke of his excitement at being involved in the project. “Creative artists for a long time have been dreaming about creating a world where they would create the laws, the physics and grammar and syntax of what audiences experience. But for the first time in human history, we have the technology that will do that for you. The incredible power of virtual reality is that it is disappointing to leave it – to come back to reality. There is no doubt that for classical music virtual reality will be a very powerful, useful medium … I am sure it will be the very first step in an exciting development for the future.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Alongside this, the Philharmonia’s walk-through installation of Holst’s The Planets, Universe of Sound, comes to the Southbank Centre for the first time. The installation, which won the 2013 Royal Philharmonic Society award for audiences and engagement, invites the public to step inside another virtual Philharmonia via giant displays, touch screens, movement-based interaction and planetarium-style projections that allow visitors to participate as musicians, conductors, arrangers and composers.Facing the music: Esa-Pekka Salonen The Belief and Beyond Belief festival kicks off in January 2017 and will run throughout that year. Building on the success of 2013’s multi-disciplinary Rest is Noise festival, the backbone of the year will be the London Philharmonic’s Orchestra’s concerts, but performances, lectures, debates and literary events will put these works in context. A series of eight weekend investigations will examine such topics as “the search for the meaning of life”, “religion and war” and “Should science depose religion?”. “If the last century was defined by battles between ideologies … it’s clear that the 21st will be marked by conflicts over religious truths and extremism,” said the LPO’s chief executive and artistic director Timothy Walker. “We hope to be part of a debate about belief and how composers have responded to, or against God, spirituality and religion.” Belief has inspired so many of the greatest works in the classical canon, yet is often seen today as a private hobby, said the Southbank’s artistic director Jude Kelly, who hopes that the ambitious festival will bring new audiences to the centre and, with a range of music from Tallis to Mahler, Penderecki to Bach, make them fall in love with classical music and keep coming. Kelly also revealed that Europe’s first orchestra black and minority ethnic orchestra, Chineke!, is to become a Southbank Centre associate orchestra and will perform again as part of the Africa Utopia festival. The Darbar festival – the biggest celebration of Indian classical music outside south Asia, will return for its 11th outing this September, while celebrity performers who will grace the Festival Hall stage include Martha Argerich, Ivan Fischer and his Budapest Festival Orchestra, Maurizio Pollini, Andris Nelsons and Marin Alsop, who will conduct a new percussion concerto by Mark-Anthony Turnage, commissioned in memory of the composer Steve Martland.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Coming soon … Marin Alsop will conduct a new percussion concerto by Mark-Anthony Turnage. Photograph: Amy T Zielinski/Redferns via Getty ImagesRadio 3 will celebrate its 70th birthday by relocating to a pop-up glass studio in the Southbank Centre’s foyer for a fortnight, and film music will be celebrated in a year-long series in which orchestras perform classic scores live in front of screenings of the films. The importance of audience development, most especially education work, was stressed by each of the four resident orchestras. The LPO’s decade-long partnership with Deutsche Bank, which facilitated nine concerts each year at the Festival Hall for schoolchildren, has recently ended. Walker announced that it was proving extremely challenging to replace the funding and continue this vital education work, and made a plea for organisations to help. “It’s vital to take music out to young ears. They listen with no prejudice,” said Andrew Burke, the London Sinfonietta’s chief executive. “It is our duty to share the amazing riches we have in the music of the past and present,” said Kelly. “If we don’t, we do casually what other regimes are doing cruelly. We mustn’t squander our jewels.”The elephant in the room – London’s proposed new concert hall over the river – was addressed by the Philharmonia’s managing director, David Whelton. “Acoustics are still an inexact science. It’s great performances that make great halls. There are no bad halls, only bad conductors.” Full details of the season at www.southbankcentre.co.uk/