• Spoiler alert: this blog is published after The Walking Dead airs in the US on Sundays. Do not read unless you have watched season seven episode nine, which airs in the UK on Fox on Mondays at 9pm.It’s always a treat when The Walking Dead visits the kingdom of Ezekiel with its bonkers Princess Bride vibe. It makes me want to pull on my best tights and pin little bells to my pointy shoes. I keep expecting Wallace Shawn to spill out of a bush shouting “Ha-ha!” and waving a dagger triumphantly. Instead, I’ll have to make do with King Ezekiel’s superb if CGI tiger Shiva and everybody speaking cod-Shakespearean, even though – last time I looked – this is zombie apocalypse Georgia. Welcome to episode nine of Ye Walking Dead season seven! It be ye midseason premiere, says ye? Tis to be hoped ye season’s second half be less lame than ye first, says I. Sorry, turned into a pirate for a moment there.Rick and his gang of Deadheads were at the Kingdom to secure Ezekiel’s commitment to an alliance of disaffected humans from Hilltop, Alexandria and the pseudo-medieval warriors of the king’s own realm to stick it to diabolical Negan and his Savior goons. This was after a fruitless meeting with Gregory, mimsy leader of the Savior’s vassal state of Hilltop. Gregory said his people were farmers not fighters and he wouldn’t risk their welfare by taking on Negan.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Your courage is inspiring’ … Gregory wimps out of an alliance against the Saviors. Photograph: Gene Page/AMCThat said, Gregory’s right hand man, Jesus, demurred. “Your courage is inspiring,” he told Gregory sarcastically before siding with Rick. Two questions intrigue me about Jesus. One, why is he called Jesus when he looks like a well-fed redeemer who’s stepped down from an altarpiece and pulled on a full-length leather coat? Two, doesn’t Jesus know that a full-length leather coat is really far too hot for the Georgian summer? Actually, I’ve got a third question. When will he deploy some martial arts moves? Not here, sadly. There was, throughout, far too high a ratio of chatting to fisticuffs.At the Kingdom, Rick and his gang received a similar message to the one they got from Gregory, albeit a message wrapped up in regal ribbons and bows. “Who dares trespass on the sacred land of the Kingdom?” asked one of Ezekiel’s outriders astride a fine steed and looking fabulous in his kevlar mutant ninja turtles breastplate. Later they were admitted to Ezekiel’s royal chamber, where he inquired of them thusly: “What brings you to this fair land? Why do you seek an audience with the king?” Jeez, Ezekiel, when are you going to stop the yip-yap and get your tiger to rip out the bad guys’ throats? I wondered fruitlessly.Rick sought to get Ezekiel on-side by telling him a rambling parable about a girl who dug up a rock that had lain in the middle of a road, breaking the legs of passing horses and generally interfering with business life. After hours of digging, she finally removed the rock. And lo! beneath was a bag of gold. What did this story portend, asks ye? Oh, have a guess! The rock was Negan, and the rewards for dislodging him from the path of human advancement manifold.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Time to stop the yip-yap and get your tiger to rip out the bad guys’ throats, King Ezekiel! Photograph: Gene Page/AMCEzekiel wasn’t convinced. He wasn’t prepared to risk his people in what looked like a losing war. Better to live on your knees than standing up to have your head splattered by Negan’s baseball bat, Lucille. Ezekiel has been running the Kingdom on the Noble Lie principle that his people don’t need to know the truth about the way their kingdom is politically organised (namely its security is assured by paying degrading tribute to the Saviors). Philosophers from Plato to Leo Strauss might admire this kind of democracy-betraying realpolitik, but we needn’t.We know, nonetheless, that Ezekiel’s a good sort because he keeps an eye on Carol, the existentially troubled former member of Rick’s gang who wanders mopingly through the woods near the Kingdom like the Lady of Shalott. Plus he has kind eyes and a gentle demeanour. Who couldn’t like Ezekiel reading a bedtime story to some lucky kid of Martin Luther King’s “I have a dream” speech? Ezekiel intoned that speech’s final words, imagining a time “when all of God’s children, black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics, will be able to join hands and sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual: Free at last! Free at last! Thank God almighty, we are free at last!” What Ezekiel didn’t realise is that citing the other King’s words mocked the principles on which he ran his realm: without fighting the Saviors, Ezekiel and his people will never be free. But, as at Hilltop, there were dissenting voices in the Kingdom. Ezekiel’s wing-man Richard sensibly noted that the Saviors got stronger on the very tributes the Kingdom supplied them and that to end this sick system, violence was necessary.But Ezekiel’s refusal to become an ally left our heroes in a pickle. Outnumbered, outgunned and outthunk, they wandered away from the Kingdom wondering how to destroy the Saviors. And bizarrely, in my view, Rick left Daryl at the Kingdom as an ambassador – the kind of diplomatic faux pas that’s Trumpian in its nitwittery.But there was some good news. Jesus had found one of Negan’s long-range walkie talkies so Rick and the gang could listen in on the Saviors’ secret communications. To be fair, most of these involve Negan making off-colour remarks about Lucille and oral sex, but still. Jesus also found out that the Saviors are still on the hunt for Daryl who, as you’ll recall, escaped from the Saviors to reunite with Rick.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Outnumbered, outgunned and outthunk … our heroes are still in a pickle. Photograph: Gene Page/AMCThen there was a strange interlude in which Rick and the gang found a roadblock rigged up with explosives. Rosita who, it turns out, is a whizz with unexploded ammo, organised the gang to disarm the dynamite so they at least have a cache that could help them – perhaps – blow up the Saviors later on. Further down the road, they glimpsed a terrifying herd of walkers, shambling implacably towards them. I was conflicted: I had chills, but at the same was pleased to see those flesh-eating hordes back in the frame.It was then that Rick and Michonne had a cunning plan. Let me ask you this: do the fires of your romance need rekindling? Here’s a way to do it. Take two cars. Place them the width of a motorway apart and stretch a sharp piece of wire between them . Then you and your significant other get in the respective driving seats and – here’s the lovely bit – mow down the herd of oncoming walkers by slashing through their bodies with the taut wire. It’s like slicing cheese. This is what Michonne and Rick did and, without this scene of carnage, the walker body count would have been negligible. Probably as close to a date night as those guys are going to get.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rick with Negan’s lickspittle Simon and his superb moustache. Photograph: Gene Page/AMCBack at Alexandria, Rick and his gang witnessed the arrival of Negan’s lickspittle Simon and his superb moustache. He had come looking for Daryl but was disappointed to notice that the larder was empty. What had happened to all those cans and jars? We knew the answer. Father Gabriel had loaded them in his car at the start of the episode and headed off, leaving only his Bible. Had he betrayed his fellow Alexandrians? Apparently not. Rick found a message at the back of the good book. “Boat,” it read, signifying that Gabriel had, most likely, headed off to that boat on the lake where Rick and Aaron had an altercation with some watery walkers. So the gang set off to find out what was up, only to find themselves ambushed lakeside by another gang of humans. The latter encircled our heroes, menacingly, waving weapons and looking like pasty teen goths.Who were they? Not sure. But when Rick and Aaron raided the boat, we watched it from the point of view of a person on the shore. Perhaps that was misdirection, but the suggestion seemed to be that was a single person, namely the tooled-up hermit who had put signs around the lake warning off all-comers. Maybe that lone hermit is in fact an army of new characters about to change the balance of power among the warring human factions.And judging by the smile that spread over Rick’s face just before the end credits, they are not foes but potential allies. Finally, just possibly, he has found an army to help take on the Saviors. Chapter and verseThe Old Testament mood was particularly intense this week. All those biblical names – Ezekiel, Aaron, Jesus. The priest putting gnomic messages in his Bible. The very name of the satanic gang the Saviors, too, which mocks the human quest for redemption and, at its worst, suggests Rick and his friends are in a hellish universe without a higher force to sustain a moral order. Of course, in part this is a reflection of where the action takes place – in what was historically God-fearing Christian America. But it is also something else – the story of the tribulations of a people to overcome their persecutors and setbacks in the face of a negligent, perhaps even vengeful God who is punishing them for crimes they can’t remember committing. But in this crypto-biblical milieu, humans are their own redeemers: the Walking Dead’s Jesus is not the son of God, but a fast-handed dude in a trench coat, who may yet help Rick and his gang take out the Savior trash.Words of wisdomQuotable lines were few and far between here (mainly because Negan was absent). But there were some lines worth attending to.“Come sup with us,” quoth Ezekiel to Rick’s gang, self-consciously using outmoded language to give his gimcrack kingdom the semblance of venerability.“Apologies,” said Simon to Rick as he left Alexandria with his goons, “for leaving the place a mess, but we’ve got a whole litany of shit to attend to.” “Litany of shit” was perfect Savior-speak, with Simon’s slimeball politesse mixing the sacred and the profane in one discombobulating phrase.It was striking though, that while we didn’t see Jeffrey Dean Morgan’s gaudy villain, he still managed to steal the show. Over the walkie talkie we heard Negan issuing an edict that his men mourn over the death of Fat Joe. “Without Fat Joe,” he pointed out drolly, “Thin Joe is just Joe. So it’s a goddam tragedy. Let’s have a moment’s silence.” Hope we get more of him next week.