 I’d like to tell my class something about St George and the Dragon as we are coming up to St George’s Day. I’d like to concentrate on the mythic story and the excitement of one brave man defeating a dragon rather than focus on him being an emblem for England. Are there some good versions of the story suitable for using in a primary classroom?  There are plenty of stories about St George, bravery and dragons and they do not have to be at all about the greatness of England and of St George’s relationship to it. In fact, the Saint George, on whom all the mythology is founded, was not born in England and is celebrated and appropriated in countries and cities around the world! Ireland in children’s books – quiz His claim to the title of patron saint of England came from his legendary status. George but was born in AD 280 in Turkey or Palestine, according to the most reliable sources – and it was not until 1552 that St George was adopted as the sole patron saint of England.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A scene from the St George’s Day Parade in London back in 2010. George himself was born in Turkey or Palestine. Photograph: Jane Sweeney/JAI/CorbisGeorge’s parents were Christians who named him Georgios, which means worker on the land or farmer. He never was a farmer instead, as a young man, Georgios served as an officer in the Roman army of the Emperor Diocletian and was killed for refusing to denounce Christianity which is why he was made a saint. The story of St George killing a dragon was a legend brought back from Asia by the Crusaders in the 12th century, long after the time that he lived. In the Middle Ages many different versions of the story appeared with sacrifices to the dragon (or sometimes a crocodile) including sheep, maidens and princesses. In all of these stories St George succeeds in an act of great heroism – most notably, slaying the terrible predator; in many, a grateful population then converts to Christianity as a result. The idea of single combat between a man and a savage beast is the stuff of legends and if a princess is saved in the process it soon becomes a fairytale. In terms of morality, there is frequently a message of redemption; a dragon, who is sometimes thought to be an embodiment of evil, may be “tamed” by an encounter with St George. In addition, dragons make wonderful enemies; the combination of their scales, dangerous claws and terrifying ability to breathe fire makes them a vivid enemy. When they are represented in picture books dragons offer illustrators brilliant imaginative opportunities. But dragons do not always have to be violent and fire-breathing any more than St George has to be a gung-ho hero. In Kenneth Grahame’s classic story The Reluctant Dragon a boy meets a gentle, poetry reading dragon living a quiet and secluded life in the country. The two become friends and spend much time in happy conversation. But when the local people find out about the dragon they call up St George and dispatch him to kill the dragon. Instead of fighting, this dragon and this St George have a civilised conversation. They agree to a pretend fight which St George will win and then to pretend that the dragon has seen the error of his ways and is no longer a threat. It is an excellent introduction to the legend as it shows that the ending does not have to be predictable. For a more traditional version, Geraldine McCaughrean’s St George and the Dragon is a beautifully told story gives a vivid background of frightened villagers, an evil- minded dragon who has been shaped by his birth in “the deepest crevices of a bottomless pool” and his wicked dragon parents, and an heroic St George. Nicki Palin’s atmospheric illustrations set the story in a medieval past which gives it the illusion of being a true story.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A scene from Louie Stowell and John Joven’s faithful version of St George and the Dragon. Illustration: John JovenThere is also a faithful version of the story in Louie Stowell’s easy-to-read retelling of the story in St George and the Dragon illustrated by John Joven. In addition, there is background information about the story and reproductions of some of the art that it has inspired both of which support enjoyment and understanding of the great legend. But the story can also be interpreted in other ways. While the very red and ferocious dragon in Chris Wormell’s George and the Dragon is quite traditional since he lives in the darkest cave in the deepest valley, the George is not. This George has no interest at all in fighting the dragon. And what’s more, the dragon is very, very scared of him. Chris Wormell’s stunning illustrations and simple text give an original and surprising spin to the familiar story.Claire Freedman’s George’s Dragon, illustrated by Russell Julian, is also unexpected as the George is just a little boy and the dragon is Sparky, his pet lizard. But maybe Sparky is not just a lizard? And dragons alone also make the subject of great stories that hint of a St George even if he does not actually appear. MP Robertson’s Dare to Care: Pet Dragon, a hilarious spoof petcare guide to everything you need to know about how to raise and healthy and happy dragon is an excellent example of this. Beautifully created and illustrated by MP Robertson with a text by Sally Symes it will inspire all young readers to dream about dragons even when there is no St George for them to fight.Got any recommended books to share on this subject? Tell us on Twitter@GdnChildrensBks or by emailing childrens.books@theguardian.com and we’ll add your ideas to this blog. You can also use the same email address to ASK the Book Doctor a books related question.