With the Pokémon Go app taking the world by storm, public buildings such as ours have found themselves inundated by visitors staring intently at their smartphones. Like many libraries, Redbridge central library in Ilford, north-east London, happens to be a designated PokéStop where participants can revive their Pokémon, collect more balls (used to catch Pokémon), and collect eggs that the characters hatch from.We have acted fast to make the most of our new-found popularity to attract new clientele. We not only advertise our PokéStop status and the number of Pokémon on site, but also run a series of events for families to learn about technology, while playing the game.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   One library visitor celebrates bagging a new Gastly Pokémon. Photograph: Maria RegueraI came up with the idea after reading about a priest in Spain who was pleased the app was bringing more people to his church. I thought if Pokémon could bring more people to a church, it could be a great way for me to bring more people to the library.So I started tweeting that we were a PokéStop and took pictures of the Pokémon I found among the books to encourage people to visit. A lot of the young people who come to the library to play the game don’t come here normally, especially the teenagers.We have targeted families because we know that Pokémon Go appeals to all generations. The events, held weekly, include advice on privacy issues and online security, and are a chance for me to publicise our free Wi-Fi facility, computers, e-books and e-magazines.It’s been popular. Eight people came to the first session, but word of mouth meant that increased to 21 the following week, and we’ll continue to run them if the demand is still there once the schools go back in September.InIlford.com (@InIlford)Even #Pokemon love @RedbridgeLibs! It's a hot spot for catching them! #PokemonGO pic.twitter.com/xuS5vl6SmRJuly 25, 2016It has had an impact on noise levels in the library. The children call out when they discover a new Pokémon or manage to catch one, but I think anybody who uses local libraries knows they are multi-purpose now. While they are still perfect for quiet studying or reading, they are also spaces full of energy and creativity. Most people just laugh when they see what we are up to, and then continue with whatever they were doing.It’s important for libraries to embrace new technology and media and to teach the public to do that, too. More of Redbridge council’s services are moving online, and having a good grasp of technology means that local residents will feel confident about accessing information online.Our efforts in this area – and my role for Vision RCL (Redbridge culture and libraries), which focuses on digital services and innovation – means we are now where people can learn about technology and digital media, in a non-threatening environment.It’s important to think beyond the walls of the library. I always keep it in the back of my mind, looking for what’s on trend, motivating people, or getting them talking. We should also be asking for feedback from our users – I always ask parents and children attending my events for ideas and suggestions. Even if it’s not feasible right now, it might be one day, so keep a folder for ideas, and hold on to even the craziest.Maria Reguera is library development officer at Redbridge central library.Talk to us on Twitter via @Guardianpublic and sign up for your free weekly Guardian Public Leaders newsletter with news and analysis sent direct to you every Thursday.