Spoiler alert: this article will discuss the entire fourth season of Orange is the New Black. Do not read on if you haven’t watched it. Whether it’s wise-cracking junkie Nicky, jubilant Taystee, conniving Red or perpetual Emmy winner Suzanne, Orange is the New Black’s greatest strength has always been its excellent characters. Fans enjoy spending time with them so much that it doesn’t really matter how good or bad a season is – just sitting around in these women’s bunks is entertainment enough.The final two episodes of the fourth season were nearly impossible to get through without weeping after the accidental death of Poussey, who was always trying to broker peace and lighten the lives of those around her – and who died protecting Suzanne. When her best friend Taystee dropped to the ground beside her corpse, and when her family mourned her in the yard, it incited Terms of Endearment levels of blubbing.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Poussey, who was always trying to lighten the lives of those around her. Photograph: NetflixThere were other horrific moments, like CO Bayley shuffling through the halls after realising he murdered Poussey, knowing that his life was essentially over as well. Then there was the look on Piper’s face when the race-baiting she incited to keep her illegal panty business afloat led her to be branded with a swastika. And Lolly being hauled off to the psych ward for a crime she (kind of) didn’t commit? Awful.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   CO Bayley, who accidentally killed Poussey. Photograph: NetflixYet for every chest-seizing moment, there was one that felt messy or arbitrary. Consider CO Healy: when he calls his estranged mail-order bride to say goodbye then walks into the water to commit suicide, it was devastating. But the buildup was perhaps insufficient: he had always seemed a little unbalanced, but Healy’s snap was a sudden one.Orange Is the New Black: 'This show will change the fabric of our culture' Similarly, the cliffhanger ending in which Daya points a gun at one of the guards was thrilling – but just how did she reach that point? We barely saw her all season and then, after losing her mum and spending two scenes in the beauty parlour with Maria and her Dominican gang, she’s ready to take an officer’s life?There were plenty of other narrative flaws besides. Granted, the guard Alex killed at the start of the season was a recent hire, but did no one notice that he never clocked out? There was documentation that he worked at the prison, which Caputo inspected after his corpse was found. He might have been new, but hadn’t his car been sitting in the parking lot for as long as his body was fertilising the garden?The worst, though, was Doggett’s about-turn on her rapist, Coates. I understand her arc of forgiveness, and the scene with Boo in which she explains her decision to let go of her anger was one of the best of the season. However, it didn’t seem like she forgave him so much as decided she had the hots for him again. I could understand how, in prison, she might have developed some sort of Stockholm syndrome, falling back in love with the one man who pays her attention, but that doesn’t tally with her Biblical justification for forgiveness. At its best, Orange is the New Black is a finely constructed and deeply rendered show about how we’re all ground under the boot of the greater forces of society. Just look at the slow-simmering rage between the inmates and guards that led to a justified riot in the finale. That was handled perfectly.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Indulgent and unrealistic … celebrity inmate Judy King. Photograph: NetflixBut, at its worst, it is a garbled mess in which Piper can go from running a lucrative illegal operation to suddenly stopping with little explanation (but plenty of justification). It can be indulgent and unrealistic, à la the Judy King storyline. It was a waste of time on a woman who was clearly an amalgamation of Martha Stewart and Paula Deen, without offering any insight other than a few chuckles about a drug-fuelled threesome.Orange is the New Black renewed for three additional seasons The decisions over who got airtime seemed off-kilter this season, too: we saw barely any of Boo, Norma, Daya or Chang (who disappeared entirely after the first episode). Both Maria and Blanca stepping to the fore was great, but sadly each new body either replaces an old one or pushes it further down a hole. Of course, the cast needs to be huge to mimic the crush of bodies in a correctional facility, but at times it feels too sprawling. With an almost literal cast of thousands, four of the 13 episodes didn’t feature flashbacks about any of the characters. After using this technique for virtually every episode of the series, it’s as if the writers got lazy and decided to forego the format that they devised and that viewers are expecting. Yes, it all comes back to the characters, because that has always been the show’s strong suit. But with three more seasons in the pipeline thanks to a big renewal from Netflix, the show struggles with keeping everyone locked in the chain gang and crushing the same boulders. Of course it is enjoyable, often transcendent, television – and this season has been more political than ever before and wonderfully critical of the for-profit prison system in the US – but the unevenness is what keeps this great show from being criminally excellent.