KJ Orr, whose first collection of short fiction was published this year, has seen off the likes of two-time Man Booker prize winner Hilary Mantel and the poet Lavinia Greenlaw to win the BBC national short story award.Described by author and judge Kei Miller, as “a near perfect example of how the short story works – a small world that’s perfectly observed”, Orr’s story Disappearances won the £15,000 prize at a ceremony at BBC’s Broadcasting House on Tuesday night. Set in Buenos Aires, the story delves into the mind of a retired plastic surgeon who begins to frequent a cafe to observe a particular waitress while she works. Orr was inspired to write the story while watching a solitary man in a cafe during a trip to Argentina.KJ Orr's top 10 stories of crossing boundaries Judge and books editor at BBC Radio 4 Di Speirs said the judges were “initially quite divided” over the shortlist, but eventually agreed on Orr’s story. “KJ Orr’s precision and clarity, her ability to expose a life in a line and to induce sympathy and disdain, linger long after reading the final paragraph,” she said.Orr, who was also shortlisted for the award in 2011, published her debut collection Light Box in February. Speaking to the Guardian on Tuesday night, Orr said she had not expected to win. “I 100% had not anticipated winning. I think my face was a total blank on stage,” she said. “The shortlist is pretty extraordinary, there are some amazing writers – it is such an honour to be shortlisted, and I love their work ... I already felt pretty proud that I had two BBC shortlisted stories in my first collection, but this is just amazing. It is amazing to feel my work is rated in that way.”She said the prize would contribute towards to work on her next work and that she was feeling “really intrigued and delighted by some of things happening with form at the moment, across the board ... people writing novellas, fragmented novels, there is a lot of work out there at the moment that seems to be in dialogue with the short story that makes me feel longer fiction is manageable and fine.” But while Orr revealed her next work would be “a longer form”, it may not be a novel: “I stay away from labels as much as I can as I feel it is good for my mental health, and my imaginative capacity.” Claire-Louise Bennett, whose debut short-story collection Pond was recently published, won £3,000 as the runner-up with her story Morning, Noon and Night, which depicts a single day in the life of a failed academic. Judge and senior programmer for literature at the Southbank Centre Ted Hodgkinson praised Bennett’s story as being “driven by the lucidity of the voice which captures moments of revelation in the rituals of the everyday”.“For an award that has often been prescient in acknowledging emerging talents, seeing two distinctive sensibilities who have recently published debuts triumph is no small cause for celebration,” Hodgkinson said.Hilary Mantel: The Assassination of Margaret Thatcher – August 6th 1983 The other authors – Mantel, Greenlaw and Tahmima Anam – each received £500. The five-story, all-female shortlist was chosen in a blind judging process of 478 entries, with Mantel making her second appearance on the shortlist after her controversial story The Assassination of Margaret Thatcher was shortlisted in 2015. The Wolf Hall author was chosen this time for her story In a Right State, which was inspired by an account by writer Alan Bennett of a visit to an accident and emergency department, published in the London Review of Books. Anam and Greenlaw were listed for their stories Garments and The Darkest Place in England respectively.The prize this year was chaired by Woman’s Hour presenter Jenni Murray, who was joined by fellow judges Speirs, Hodgkinson, Miller and Booker-winning author Pat Barker. Previous winners of the award include Lionel Shriver, Jonathan Buckley, Julian Gough, James Lasdun and Clare Wigfall.