In Channel 4’s dark comedy Flowers, Olivia Colman is pursued by two ardent admirers as she flounders around in a grim marriage.“I don’t often get to play the object of lust, it’s quite embarrassing,” she says. “I got a bit nervous and giggly. But it’s always a joy to do something different each time.”While Colman, fresh from her starring role in the BBC’s big hit The Night Manager, might have been a bit skittish about her role, Channel 4 has taken on more of a risk by staking its 10pm slot on the relatively unknown writer of Flowers, 29-year-old Will Sharpe, an English-Japanese actor, writer and director.Eager to underscore its reputation for distinctive, risky programming, and miffed by the loss to Netflix of its hit Charlie Brooker series Black Mirror, Channel 4 decided Sharpe was not only a gamble worth taking but that he deserved special treatment. So each episodes will be broadcast at the same time every day over a week, beginning with a double bill on Monday.Sharpe was born in London but until the age of eight he lived in Tokyo. He was educated at Winchester College, then went to Cambridge, where he read classics and joined the university’s dramatic club, Footlights, subsequently spending a year with the Royal Shakespeare Company.“I’m very lucky,” he says of his privileged background. “However, I am born of the ‘just do it yourself’ mentality. This [Flowers] is the first time I have made a project through a proper grown-up system. There are lots of ways to learn; in my case I learn fastest and best by doing it.”The series revolves around the character of Deborah Flowers, played by Colman, the outwardly radiant but fraught music teacher wife of depressed children’s books writer Maurice, played with miserable restraint by The Mighty Boosh comedy star Julian Barratt. Maurice has invented a nonsensical Lewis Carroll-style fictional character, Mr Grubb, for his books but is suffering from writer’s block.While Maurice is certainly not lusting after his wife – and may be having an affair with his male Japanese illustrator, Shun (played by Sharpe) – a sex-mad neighbour, George (Angus Wright), and a down-to-earth builder (Colin Hurley) most certainly are.Flowers is also mother to a dysfunctional family led by dim inventor son Donald (Daniel Rigby from Black Mirror) and Amy (Sophia Di Martino), a broken, sad daughter with sapphic tendencies, who all rattle around in what could be the setting for an Aga saga drama in a farmhouse in bucolic countryside. Except the tone is set from the start with two juxtaposed scenes, one in which Maurice fails to hang himself in the encircling wood and a second in which a blithely unaware Deborah trips across the grass with tea for the builders.It was this that caught the attention of Channel 4’s comedy team when drama producer Kudos, which also makes Broadchurch with Colman, took it to them. Sharpe, who directs all the episodes, plays Shun as a comic parody which has some echoes of waiter Manuel in Fawlty Towers. “I grew up watching Mr Bean,” he says. “So there may be some subconscious referencing [to him].”Colman describes working with Sharpe as feeling she was “in good hands”. “Some writers are quite precious but he isn’t,” she says. “It’s just eternally irritating he’s so young.”Sharpe may not have had television experience but his short career has been marked by success. In 2012, he received a Bafta nomination (alongside co-director Tom Kingsley) for his film Black Pond, made in his backyard (or more precisely at his family home in Cobham, Surrey) on a £25,000 budget. It won favourable reviews for a “haunting, melancholy and strange film” and admiration from comedy’s movers and shakers.Sharpe’s second film, The Darkest Universe, also made with Kingsley, premieres on Saturday at the London Comedy Film Festival. It is about a sister and boyfriend who disappear on a canal boat, with Sharpe as the brother who hunts them down.Black Pond contains clues to Sharpe’s detached eye for British life. The film told the bizarre story of a middle-aged couple in the stockbroker belt, who find themselves accused of murder after the father befriends a near-deranged widower who promptly dies on them. Sharpe also appears in it, as a British-Japanese friend of the daughters.“I didn’t realise until quite recently the [impact] of my Japanese side,” he says. “My formative years spent in Japan did create a little bit of a distance. Styles of comedy are different, with the Japanese using more visual humour.”He says of his character in Flowers, Shun, that he is “so un-English”, something that sits in stark contrast to the overarching theme of the series.“Maurice writes about goblins and the wood is called Heathen’s Wood,” he says. “It [Flowers] is about Englishness, a pagan and mystical heritage. It is about how this feeds into everyday life – without the characters even realising it.”