With one of the longest – and arguably dullest – election campaigns in Australian history finally coming to a close this weekend, you’d be forgiven for having lost interest.As Guardian Australia’s podcast producer, I’m in the rarified position of having listened almost exclusively to Auspol podcasts since the campaign began in May. Here’s a rundown of the best from the election and beyond, so you can catch up in your down-time.Two Grumpy Hacks – election only I took great comfort this week from the spectacle of so many senior politicians not having a clue of their own policy. It reaffirmed my own ignorance. – Malcolm FarrWho: Malcolm Farr, the national political editor at news.com.au and Dennis Atkins, the national affairs editor at the Courier Mail.What: 10-minute episodes, twice weekly.Our take: It’s like listening to an interesting chat between two friends, who just happen to be astute political commentators. They don’t pull punches and move confidently between ripping apart the latest political bungle and analysing campaign manoeuvres.Subscribe: Find them on Soundcloud, subscribe on iTunes, or search any other podcasting app. The Double Disillusionists – election only [People] are disappointed that he hasn’t done things – and that’s a much harder case [for Labor] to make than being disappointed in the things he has done. – Dee Madigan on Malcolm TurnbullWho: Chaser co-founder and ex-702 Evenings presenter Dom Knight, author and columnist Andrew P Street and a different guest each week.Past guests: Jacqueline Maley (SMH), Richard Cooke (The Monthly), Alice Workman (Buzzfeed).What: 35-minute episodes, weekly.Our take: Street and Knight are known for their humour but while this podcast does crack a few jokes, it mainly sticks to insightful analysis of what we can expect this election. They excel at getting the most out of each guest, drawing on their expertise to evaluate the latest news.Subscribe: Find them on Soundcloud, subscribe on iTunes, or search any other podcasting app.The Party Room – election only The argument they are trying to mount is: a leader can’t just ride roughshod over their party. – Patricia KarvelasWho: Radio National’s Fran Kelly and Patricia Karvelas, with guests.Past guests: Chris Uhlmann (ABC 7.30), Amanda Vanstone (ex-Liberal party senator), Marius Benson (Newsradio), Charles Firth (The Chaser).What: 20-minute episodes, weekly.Our take: The Party Room tries its best to keep things casual: Karvelas is called “PK” by Fran, guests are greeted over clinking glassware, muzak and chatter, and Fran sings a song at the end of each episode. All well and good, but would anyone who’s not interested in in-depth political analysis be listening to an election podcast from the ABC? My grumpy grumblings about having fun aside: this is one of the strongest, most perceptive and best produced podcasts of this election cycle.Subscribe: Find all their episodes and subscribe on the ABC website.Cartoonists Drink Whisky And Using the NBN Talk About The Election *buffering* – election only This could be one of the worst election’s in history, what do you reckon? – Jon KudelkaWho: Guardian Australia’s First Dog on the Moon teams up with Jon Kudelka, the cartoonist for the Australian and the Hobart MercuryWhat: 30-minute episodes, every week-ishOur take: The title of this show describes it accurately: CDW&UTNBNTATE is two cartoonists getting frustrated at politics, while catching up over a drink.Subscribe: Find them on Soundcloud, subscribe on iTunes, or search any other podcasting app.Vice’s Election Podcast – election only The basic tenet of an election campaign is that you’ll enter into a hostage situation with whichever leader you happen to be following. – Eric JensenWho: Hosted by Aamer Rahman (from Fear of a Brown Planet), with three guests each episodePast guests: Nevena Spirovska (Sex Party), Alan Duffy (Swinburn University), Eric Jensen (The Saturday Paper)What: Three 45-minute episodes released before the electionOur take: Putting Rahman in a room with interesting people was a genius move by Vice: the show is chatty, informative, funny and consistently interesting.Subscribe: Find them on Soundcloud, subscribe on iTunes, or search any other podcasting app. Politics with Michelle Grattan – ongoing At least he’s had the guts to come up with a plan. It’s a thoroughly bad plan, but it is at least a plan. – Tony Abbott on Bill ShortenWho: Michelle Grattan, professorial fellow at the University of Canberra; previously chief political correspondent for the Age, and editor of the Canberra Times.Past guests: Malcolm Turnbull, Richard Di Natale, Cathy McGowan, Sam Dastyari.What: 10- to 45-minute episodes, weekly.Our take: Grattan does excellent no-nonsense long-form interviews with politicians, journalists and academics that cover the most topical political issues of the week. This election cycle she’s taken a close look at key contested seats like Batman, Wills, New England and Indi, and talked to Tony Abbott and Nick Xenophon.Subscribe: Find all the information about the podcast at The Conversation, subscribe on iTunes, or search any other podcasting app. The Election Nerds – ongoing  Since the 1990s, the decline in relatively high levels of party identification in Australia compared with other countries around the world [has] put much more emphasis on local campaigning – Prof Rodney SmithWho: Hosted by Sydney University political scientists Dr Amanda Elliot and Dr Stewart Jackson, with guests.Past guests: Dr Diana Perche (Macquarie University), Prof Ariadne Vromen (Sydney University), Dr Siobhan O’Sullivan (University of NSW).What: 60-minute episodes, which drop sporadically into your podcast feed around any important political event.The Election Nerds PodcastOur take: The show excels at breaking down complicated subjects, such as how positions on the ballot paper affect votes, and how trends in voting have shifted over time. Putting four academics in a room to talk about policy details seems like it could be a disaster but their decades of research experience sets the show apart.Subscribe: Find all their information on their website, subscribe in iTunes, or search any other podcasting app. Miles Martignoni is also an employee of 2SER Radio which produces The Election Nerds.The Silent Majority – ongoing Speaking of biceps, have you seen those photos of Tony [Abbott’s] rig? – Alice Workman Who: Buzzfeed’s Alice Workman, formerly of Hack, and Rob Harris from the Herald Sun, with guests.Past guests: Kristina Keneally (Guardian Australia, Sky News, former Labor premier of NSW), James Jeffrey (the Australian), Andrew Hastie (the Liberal party).What: 60-minute episodes, with no regular release schedule.Our take: The most fun you can have listening to a politics podcast, The Silent Majority takes you through recent events, and does a great job of interspersing the chatter with interview grabs and other audio. It’s main problem is that the episodes run a little too long. Subscribe: Find the podcast on Soundcloud, subscribe on iTunes, or search in any other podcasting app. Chat 10 Looks 3 – ongoing There are some budgets … that you can tell the story of their vibe in two or three words, but it’s really hard this year. – Annabel CrabbWho: ABC 7.30 host Leigh Sales and author, writer for ABC’s the Drum and host of Kitchen Cabinet Annabel Crabb.What: 20-minute episodes, once or twice a month.Our Take: Why does this cheerful chat about culture count as a politics podcast? Because even if you don’t want to hear about what Crabb and Sales are reading and watching, you get fascinating insights into the best and worst parts of their work, and how it all comes together. Subscribe: Find them on their website, subscribe on iTunes or search in any other podcasting app. You can listen to their episode about the budget lockup here.Guardian Australia podcasts:Australian Politics Live The economy is always at the centre of election campaigns. The interesting thing this time, I think, is that the way the major parties are looking at the economic debate is quite different – Lenore TaylorWho: Guardian Australia political editors Lenore Taylor and Katharine Murphy, featuring guests.Past guests: Mathias Cormann (Liberal party), Penny Wong (Labor party), George Megalogenis (author).What: 40-minute episodes, weekly.Our take: Usually recorded inside Parliament House, this show gives you access to a bunch of political insiders, and our hosts keep things interesting by delving much deeper into issues than you’d be used to. A 25-minute conversation about the complexities of the Labor/Greens voting split does not sound particularly enthralling, I’ll admit – but that episode was actually one of my favourite pieces of audio from this election.Behind the Lines He’s really playing to who is going to vote for the next leader of the Liberal party. – Kristina Keneally on Scott MorrisonWho: Hosted by Bridie Jabour and Gabrielle Jackson, with guests.Past guests: David Marr, Kristina Keneally, Richard Ackland.What: 25-minute episodes, fortnightly Kristina Keneally, Gabrielle Jackson and Miles Martignoni discuss attack ads in this episode of Behind the LinesOur take: Guardian Australia’s news podcasts has been in full election mode recently, bringing in some of our top contributors to give you their take on the election. Behind the Lines also looks at some of our biggest stories – how they came together, and why they were pursued. Hearing a journalist talk about a story adds a whole new layer of depth to it; you may have read David Marr’s work about Cardinal George Pell but hearing Marr talk about him is equally compelling.Any great #Auspol podcasts out there that we missed? Recommend them in the comments.