My kitchen is … actually my mum’s kitchen. When I’m in London I’m always working at the restaurant, so I hardly have a chance to use the kitchen in my flat. But I love to cook when I’m back at my family home in the Ashdown forest. It’s an old kitchen, full of pictures and memories. All the utensils and pots and pans that have passed down from my grandmother. There’s an Aga to cook on, and I often make an open fire to cook on in the garden when I’m there. I tend to keep it simple by making just one slow-cooked, one-pot meal while looking out on to the forest.My favourite kitchen tool is … a large cooking pot that my parents gave to me when I turned 18. I take it places. It’s made of copper, which is something I love to use. It’s the perfect size for one‑pot meals, and it lends itself to slow-cooking on the Aga.My storecupboard staple is … pasta. Since my childhood, it’s been a staple in my mum’s larder, and she also has a great big machine that she uses a lot. Also, really good olive oil from Spain that we buy big tins of, and always have in reserve.When I’m starving I … eat thick crumpets. I like them slightly overdone with lots of salted butter, and in pairs. I have the first one with Marmite and the second with peanut butter.My culinary inspiration is … Jamie Oliver. I started cooking when I was 10 and he came on the scene. I remember seeing him on television and he was so inspiring. It wasn’t any particular dish, but his laid-back attitude towards food – it was so cool at the time. I thought “Yeah, I want to be a chef.”My best-kept kitchen secret is … provenance is key. It’s no secret, but it’s so true. You can’t cook a good meal without good ingredients.When I’m invited to dinner I always take … wine. Although I actually get invited to dinner very little. People always think I’m working, and they’re also nervous to cook for me, but I’m not remotely fussy: I’ll eat anything. When I go to someone’s house, the food is secondary to the conversation and the rare treat of seeing friends.Everything tastes better with … butter. I usually go for salted butter, although I recently discovered cultured butter, which is absolutely delicious. The flavour is a lot more natural – you can taste the farm.When I go shopping I … am organised. I tend to be organised with everything I do. I’ll try to find good meat or fish first, then base the meal around that. I’m becoming more and more conscious of seasonality and locality – seeking out local British stuff wherever possible.For dinner tonight … my go-to dinner: bavette steak, rare, with a green leaf salad, going heavy on the mustard – English with the steak, dijon in the vinaigrette.Will Bowlby is chef at Kricket, Brixton, London. Instagram @kricketbrixton