I clearly remember the moment I realised heat was nothing to fear. I’d been asked to roast parsnips, winter squash, carrots and turnips for a side dish at Chez Panisse. To make sure that each was cooked perfectly, I had to cook them on separate trays. Oven space in the prep kitchen was limited, so Christopher Lee, the chef, sent me upstairs to the wood-fired oven. I was terrified – I’d never roasted with open flames before. I imagined returning with piles of burnt vegetable chips.Chris reassured me. “Cooking in a wood oven is no different than cooking in a gas-powered oven,” he said.I didn’t believe him. “But how will I know what temperature it’s set to?” I always roasted vegetables at 220C.He walked me over to a gas oven and opened the door. “Wave your hand in there,” he said, “and remember what that feels like. That’s 220C. When you get upstairs, wave your arm in the wood oven. If it feels too hot, move the coals around and release some heat. If it feels too cool, stoke the fire.”I still wasn’t convinced. And he could tell by looking at my face. “Let me tell you a secret,” Chris said as he shooed me upstairs. “It’s not the heat source that matters, but how the food responds to it. Now go.”I was literally undergoing trial by fire, but I did as I was told. When the temperature felt right, I slid a pan of squash into the oven and watched it respond to the heat. While the bottoms of the slices began to sizzle as if they were being sauteed, their tops took on colour from the heat reflecting off the walls of the oven. The pieces nearest the fire browned first, so I rotated the pan and watched as the others caught up. When they were all evenly gilded, I checked them with a paring knife: perfectly tender. Chris had been right – there hadn’t been anything to fear. I repeated the task with the remaining trays and returned downstairs with a triumphant smile.Without any formal training, the entire first year I spent in the kitchen had been one of constant confusion. My grasp of the final element of good cooking – heat – came abruptly into focus.Chris was right: watch the food, not the heat source. Some foods need to be cooked slowly over a gentle heat, others need something quicker and more intense, and still others need a little of both. Work out what’s what, then apply the right level of heat – over a fire in the woods, a hot plate in a dormitory, a toaster oven, or a professional range ... whatever. All that matters is that the food is responding as it ought to. Is it simmering? Sizzling? Browning? Steaming? Good cooks heed these signs – the landmarks that will guide you to deliciousness, rather than precise temperatures on oven dials and specific cooking times.Put my theory to the test and make today’s tagine. When making it for a crowd, I’ll brown whole lamb shoulders in an oven set to 200C/400F/gas mark 6 while I prepare an aromatic bed of vegetables and spices. Then I’ll assemble the braise and simmer it in the oven for hours at 180C/350F/gas mark 4 until the meat falls from the bone. To translate the method for smaller numbers, don’t bother with the oven. Start with boneless pieces of lamb (which means more surface area for delicious browning) and brown it on the stove over a high heat, then assemble the braise in a large casserole. Simmer over a low heat until the meat is meltingly tender. In either case, it’s browning, simmering and tenderness that mark the way to a perfect tagine.To accompany the stew, try your own hand at roasting some winter squash. Tend to it as it cooks – you’ll know it’s done when it’s brown on the surface, but soft throughout. The vibrant chermoula, bright with coriander, ginger and lime offers a welcome contrast to the rich flavours of the squash and lamb.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Samin Nosrat: ‘Watch the food, not the heat source... Is it simmering? Sizzling? Browning? Steaming? Good cooks heed these signs.’ Photograph: Clare Hewitt for the GuardianLamb and quince tagine with herbed yoghurtServes 6-8 For the tagine1.8kg boneless lamb shoulder, trimmed of excess fat and cut into 4cm piecesSaltExtra virgin olive oil2 onions, diced2 quince, peeled, seeded and quartered1 head garlic, unpeeled and halved across its equatorA thumb of fresh ginger root, peeled and sliced1 tsp ground ginger3 bay leavesA large pinch of saffron threads½ cinnamon stick½ tsp black pepper1 tsp ground cumin½ tsp ground coriander¼ tsp chilli flakes400g chopped tomatoes with their juices For the yoghurt340g plain greek yoghurt1 garlic clove, finely grated or pounded with a pinch of salt2 tbsp parsley, finely chopped 2 tbsp coriander leaves and stems, finely chopped 8 mint leaves, finely chopped30ml extra virgin olive oil1 Salt the lamb at least an hour before cooking, preferably overnight. Bring to room temperature.2 Set a large Dutch oven or similar pot over a medium-high heat and coat the bottom in oil. Working in batches, to avoid crowding the pan, brown the lamb evenly on all sides – about 3 minutes per side. Transfer the browned meat to a large bowl. Carefully tip the fat from the pot and return it to the heat. Deglaze the pan with 250ml water, loosening the brown bits with a wooden spoon. Pour this deglazing liquid into the bowl with the lamb.3 Return the pot to a medium heat and coat the bottom with oil. Add the onion, quince, garlic, herbs and spices. Cook, stirring occasionally, for around 18 minutes, or until the onions are brown and soft.4 Add the tomatoes to the browned onions and cook for 3 minutes. Stir in the lamb and its liquid. Add enough water to come about ⅓ of the way up the sides of the meat, then add about 300ml more. Increase the heat to high and bring to a boil, then reduce to a simmer. Cover the tagine partially with a lid. Stirring occasionally, continue simmering the meat until tender – about 2 hours.5 Meanwhile, combine all the yoghurt ingredients with a generous pinch of salt. Stir, taste, and adjust seasoning as needed. Cover and chill until serving.6 Taste the tagine and adjust the seasoning as needed. Skim any fat from the surface. Serve with steamed couscous and the herbed yoghurt.Roasted winter squash with chermoulaServes 6-82 large butternut squash (about 900g each), peeled, halved lengthways, seeds discardedExtra-virgin olive oilSaltFor the chermoula½ tsp cumin seeds120ml extra-virgin olive oil1 large bunch coriander leaves, plus any tender stems, coarsely chopped1 garlic clove2cm knob of ginger, peeled and sliced½ small jalapeno pepper, stemmed20ml lime juice (about 1 small lime)2 large pinches of saltTangy vinegar chicken and chicory salad recipes | Cook residency  1 Set the oven to 220C/425F/gas mark 7. First, make the chermoula. Swirling constantly, toast the cumin in a dry pan over a medium heat until the first few seeds begin to pop and emit a savoury aroma – about 3 minutes. Remove from the heat. Grind finely right away with a pinch of salt in a pestle and mortar or spice grinder.2 Blitz the cumin with the rest of the chermoula ingredients. Taste and adjust the salt and acidity. Thin with water to your desired consistency. Cover and refrigerate until needed.3 Slice each half of the squash crosswise into 15mm-thick crescents and put in a large bowl. Toss with enough olive oil to coat – about 6 tbsp. Season and put in a single layer on a baking sheet.4 Bake until tender and caramelised – about 25-30 minutes, but check after 12. Rotate the sheets and switch their positions to ensure even browning.5 Serve warm or at room temperature on a platter, drizzled with chermoula.Samin Nosrat is a food writer, cook and teacher and the author of the forthcoming Salt, Fat, Acid, Heat (Canongate, 2017). She lives in Berkeley, California. saminnosrat.com @ciaosamin