 In an ideal world, women and men would enjoy the same professional opportunities, share equal pay and feel equally represented in the workplace. But like most industries, the media continues to struggle with gender equality, in everything from creating news that is for and about women to promoting equal amounts of men and women to senior executive positions. But creating gender equality is more than fulfilling a quota or being politically correct – it’s actually good business. Research by non-profit organisation Catalyst found companies that reported the highest number of women in senior leadership roles financially outperformed those with lower rates of women, with a 35% higher return on equity. Similar data from McKinsey & Company showed that the 89 companies in Europe with the largest representation of women in senior roles came out with 10% higher return on equity and 48% higher earnings before interest and tax (pdf).British journalism is 94% white and 55% male, survey reveals  In addition to financial benefits, creating gender balance makes newsrooms more productive and innovative and can contribute to social stability in surrounding communities. Here are five strategies for creating gender equality in the media.1 Include news about and for women This is not just about covering “women’s issues”. It’s about making sure content is balanced across gender lines and respects the diversity that represents nearly 50% of the world’s population. “Media has a key role in shaping issues and, if women are excluded from the process, it’s emblematic of how society is excluding women and not giving them due voice,” says Jemima Olchawski, head of policy and insight at the London-based Fawcett Society. Creating such a balance not only helps build readership but also a publication’s impact and, eventually, its overall revenue.The Zimbabwean, an independent newspaper based in Harare since 2005, made it its mission to provide authoritative reporting about and for women – especially those in rural areas with limited access to news. “Our stories have a life-changing impact,” said co-founder Trish Mbanga. “If you educate a woman, you educate the family. If you upgrade women, you upgrade society. Women are a powerful economic force.”2 Make sure there is a strong commitment from management Content alone can only do so much to promote gender equality in the newsroom. If management isn’t committed to guaranteeing diversity, initiatives can quickly crumble. That’s why a top-down approach is essential. Nana Sekyiamah, communications manager at the Association for Women’s Rights in Development (AWID) with offices in Toronto and Mexico City, says a commitment to gender equality needs to be systemic.“Management plays a critical role in communicating, and role modeling this to team members,” says Sekyiamah. “Commitment to gender equality entails changing the power relationships in the teams and, therefore, it is crucial that management is seriously on board to advance such a process.” Business newspaper Mint, based in Delhi, India, is breaking ground in an industry that has largely been dominated by men, and counts 50% women among its staff. In fact, when it launched in 2007, it made gender equality part of its business plan and created a gender editorial consultant to ensure diversity. “I think the person running the newsroom has to have as much a personal connection as possible with the people in it,” says Mint editor Sukamar Ranganathan. “But it’s up to the newsroom leader to make it work.”3 Make sure women occupy all roles in the newsroom, including senior positions No matter how much content a media outlet publishes for and about women or how committed management is to creating gender equality, if there isn’t a physical representation of women in the newsroom, having a balance is impossible. Not only that, women must be represented on all levels – not simply filling low-level research or editorial roles. “Women deserve a place in the newsroom and in senior positions just as much as men,” says Kristin Van Nort, chair of the Missouri-based Association for Women in Communications (AWC) national board of directors. “Half of the world’s population is women. They should be equally represented when it comes to making decisions about news coverage.” In Germany, daily newspaper Die Tageszeitung – commonly known as Taz – went even further by creating an employee-enforced quota system that requires 50/50 gender parity at each level of its newsroom. By recruiting more women for entry-level positions, the company aims to have enough competent female candidates for senior positions later on. “Once you are forced to hire women, you can find good women,” says Ines Pohl, who served as editor-in-chief of Taz from 2009 to 2015. “If the quotas aren’t met, the next open position will be filled with a woman, no exceptions. We must draw the famous clear ‘red line’.”4 Create pay equality While some aspects of gender inequality can be abstract and difficult to quantify, the gender pay gap is a pointer to inequalities taking place in the media. But the media is far from being the only industry to undervalue its female employees – according to the OECD, the disparity exists in most developed nations and across industries. According to the OECD’s latest figures, Korea measures the highest pay gap of 36.6, while Japan is close behind at 26.6. In the US and the UK, the gap remains high – 17.9 and 17.5 – despite a raised awareness. In 2015 in the US, women earned 79 cents for every dollar earned by men, according to the US Census Bureau. In the UK, new legislation is soon to require employers with over 250 people to report their gender pay gap figures. But companies can take the matter into their own hands, says the Fawcett Society’s Olchawski, by looking at proportional recruitment and promotion: “If women are concentrated at lower levels, you need to identify why they’re getting stuck and how you can help the situation over time.”5 Increase skills and leadership abilities through mentoring and development programmes Ensuring that women have the confidence and skills they need to move up the job ladder is part and parcel of creating gender equality in the newsroom. While talent and on-the-job experience certainly helps, mentoring and development programmes are a way for more experienced professionals to boost the careers of women whose skills may not yet be fully realised. As she watched press freedoms slowly eroding, Jordan-based journalist and media leader Rana Sabbagh decided to found Arab Reporters for Investigative Journalism (ARIJ) to train journalists and give women a platform for their voice. Now, a decade later, the ARIJ operates in nine Arab countries and has trained over 1,600 reporters and mentored leading investigative journalists across the Arab world. AWC’s Van Nort says the same leadership and management programmes need to be made available for women as they are for men.Colette Davidson is a senior journalist at WAN-IFRATo get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media & Tech Network membership.All Guardian Media & Tech Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled “Paid for by” – find out more here.