Painting a subject who is famous for portraying so many different characters proved a struggle for Louise Hearman, who won the 2016 Archibald prize on Friday for her portrait of Barry Humphries – a man she described as having “a truly fugitive face”.Hearman, a Melbourne-based artist who was awarded the $150,000 Moran prize in 2014 for her portrait of Bill Henson, told the media at the Art Gallery of NSW it took her years to feel as though she had fully captured Humphries, the actor and comedian behind Dame Edna Everage and Sir Les Patterson, among others.Archibald finalists 2016: from artists to activists to celebrity chefs – in pictures “Every feature on this painting has been in a different place in some point, and it took me several years to make it,” she said. “I had to keep waiting for Barry to come back from overseas, and I had to go up to his face and look into his eyes and try and work out what colour they were. He was a very difficult person to paint. I hope I kept him open; he’s not one thing or another, he’s all things at once.”When she put the final stroke on the work, Hearman brought her neighbours around for the first assessment. “I said, ‘OK, now turn around’ – and my neighbour [gasped]. And I thought, that’s so fantastic. That means so much to me.”Hearman became friends with Humphries, who also paints, through mutual acquaintances. “Much to my delight, Barry agreed to sit for a paint,” she said. “I tried many ideas, but as it progressed the painting itself showed me the way.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Louise Hearman’s portrait of Barry Humphries, which won the $100,000 Archibald prize. Photograph: Nick Kreisler/AGNSWShe described Humphries as a “man with a searing intellect, extraordinary talent, and a mind-boggling memory”, saying he was an inspiration to artists of every medium. “It’s sad that so much great talent in Australia has to leave this country to make a living from what they do. I love Australia, I want to stay here, I want to work here – and this prize will really help me do that.”Hearman beat 50 other finalists for the prize, which reached gender parity among artists for the first time in the Archibald’s 95-year history. The 11-person Board of Trustees of AGNSW met at the gallery on Friday morning to decide on the pool’s top contenders, narrowing the field down to just six works: Natasha Bieniek’s portrait of Wendy Whiteley; Lewis Miller’s of Bernie Teague; Nick Stathopoulos’s of Deng Adut; Marcus Wills’s of James Batcheler; Imants Tillers for his self-portrait; and Hearman’s portrait of Humphries.The trust’s vice president, Mark Nelson, said judging was difficult, but “Louise Hearman’s portrait took centre-stage in the end. It stood out as a portrait that truly captured the spirit of the sitter – she has caught Barry’s sardonic smile brilliantly.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Seven Sisters tjukurrpa, by the Ken Family Collective, which won the Wynne prize at the 2016 Archibald announcement Photograph: Ken Family Collective/Felicity Jenkins/AGNSWEach year, the $100,000 Archibald prize is awarded to a portrait “preferentially of some man or woman distinguished in art, letters, science or politics”. Announced concurrently are the $40,000 Sulman Prize for subject painting, genre painting or murals, which was won this year by Esther Stewart for Flatline Dreaming; and the $50,000 Wynne Prize for landscapes, which was won by the Ken Family Collective: five sisters who live in the remote Aboriginal community of Amata in the Anangu Pitjantjatjara Yankunytjatjara (APY) lands in South Australia. The Archibald prize finally hit gender parity but where are the women on the walls? The Ken Family Collective’s collaborative work, Seven Sisters, is a story about family protection and teaching. “It tells of women being chased by a bad man but being protected by their elder sisters,” the artists’ statement reads. “We have also included the tjala (honey ant), which refers to our country. “When we work together as a family we are learning from each other and teaching each other. Our family is strong because we teach all our young women this important tjukurpa (the force which unites Anangu with each other and with the landscape).”Four of the sisters travelled to Sydney for the first time to receive the award. “We are very proud to see our painting here in Sydney and to win the Wynne Prize,” said Tjungkara Ken. “I am happy to be here with my sisters and for my family in Amata to see our painting win this big award.”As the prizes were announced inside, the Art Gallery of NSW steps played host to another group eager for the attention of the press: students, artists, alumni and supporters of Sydney College of the Arts, who gathered in red capes to protest against the Sydney University college’s merger with UNSW Art and Design, which was announced in June and will go into effect in 2017.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Sydney College of the Arts’ Save Our School campaign meets at the steps of AGNSW, to protest against the school’s merger with UNSW Art and Design. Photograph: Steph Harmon for the GuardianThe merger – which also plans to bring a third Sydney art education institution, National Art School, closer to the fold – has been touted by University of NSW vice-chancellor Ian Jacob as “an exciting step towards the creation of a national centre of artistic excellence”.But many have spoken out against a move they believe will reduce the diversity of educational options and which will, according to National Association for the Visual Arts executive director Tamara Winikoff, “have very deleterious consequences for art education in Australia”. Three SCA graduates have won the Archibald prize, including Ben Quilty, who spoke at the protest.• The Archibald prize exhibition at the Art Gallery of NSW is open to the public from 16 July