The 2017 Bafta TV awards (which will be presented on Sunday night) attracted as much attention for perceived omissions – only one nomination each for Line of Duty and The Night Manager – as for its many thoughtful and diverse inclusions.Some surprises may be due to the rule that only one piece of material can be submitted by each contender, so a 90-minute drama can enter the entire thing, but a 10-part series must select an episode. This may be why about a third of the acting nominations (six out of 16) go to performers who appeared in either one-off dramas or a single episode of a show, even though such work is a small proportion of the overall drama output. Judges are also asked to make their decision on the basis of the entered evidence alone. This means that, for example, Benedict Cumberbatch as Richard III is evaluated on a whole performance but Tom Hiddleston in The Night Manager on the basis of one-sixth. Such complexities make the winners hard to second-guess, but here goes:Comedy and comedy entertainment programmeCharlie’s Brooker’s 2016 Wipe (BBC2)Cunk on Shakespeare (BBC2)The Last Leg (Channel 4)Taskmaster (Dave)Charlie Brooker is doing what’s known in the business as a “Julie Walters” or “Olivia Colman” by being nominated against himself (as presenter of Wipe and producer of the special by Wipe spin-off Philomena Cunk). This is one of the most competitive categories, with Greg Davies’ inventive game show Taskmaster having a real chance of requiring the channel Dave to buy a trophy cabinet. But it seems to be between Cunk and The Last Leg, with the latter narrowly the worthier winner for sustained daring invention in a genre of disability comedy pretty much its own.Current affairsInside Obama’s White House (BBC2) Teenage Prison Abuse Exposed: Panorama (BBC1)Three Days of Terror, The Charlie Hebdo Attacks: This World (BBC2)Unarmed Black Male: This World (BBC2)Given the relationship between the current US president and the media, don’t expect a future fly-on-the-wall series called Inside Trump’s White House. But Norma Percy and Brian Lapping, long-time geniuses of TV, reported brilliantly on the previous administration, through searching interviews and hard-searched archive, and would be the most deserving winners here. Unless the jury was moved by humanitarian horror, in which case the Charlie Hebdo film might take the prize (one of the documentaries that gives BBC2’s This World strand an impressive 50% of the nominees).Drama series      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Has a quality unmatched by any of its rivals … The Crown. Photograph: Alex Bailey/NetflixThe Crown (Netflix)The Durrells (ITV)Happy Valley (BBC1)War & Peace (BBC1)In one of the most contentious sections – due to the exclusion of The Night Manager and Line of Duty – The Crown looks to have the prerogative. There may have been resentment in the jury room at the size of Netflix budgets, but the cash has been spent on acting, writing and filming of a quality unmatched by any of its rivals here. If the Baftas are to remain relevant, they must reflect the new shape of TV-making – and this looks a good place to do so. Entertainment performanceAdam Hills – The Last Leg (Channel 4)Claudia Winkleman – Strictly Come Dancing (BBC1)Graham Norton – The Graham Norton Show (BBC1)Michael McIntyre – Michael McIntyre’s Big Show (BBC1)With Norton already having taken this trophy five times and McIntyre possibly too bland for some panellists, my hunch is that Winkleman will take it by what Hills surely wouldn’t mind us calling a short leg.Bafta TV awards 2017: full list of nominations EntertainmentAnt & Dec’s Saturday Night Takeaway (ITV)Britain’s Got Talent (ITV)Michael McIntyre’s Big Show (BBC1)Strictly Come Dancing (BBC1)Bafta success is often dictated by what producers choose to submit. If the Strictly showreel contained a lot of Ed Balls, jurors would have been reminded of the huge casting coup he represented and the extraordinary media impact he had, in which case SCD should win. But after a poor 2016, ITV doesn’t have many contenders, and Ant & Dec are almost constitutionally obliged to win something at each TV gongs handout, so could nick it.Factual series24 Hours in Police Custody (Channel 4)Exodus: Our Journey to Europe (BBC2)Kids on the Edge (Channel 4)The Prosecutors: Real Crime and Punishment (BBC4)Bafta jurors are warned to make judgments based on evidence rather than emotion. In practice, though, factual programmes often benefit from a damp-hankie test. This may mean it’s between the BBC2 film in which cameras were given to some of those trying to smuggle themselves into Europe, and Channel 4’s report on children with mental health issues. I suspect C4 will get it for Kids on the Edge.Features      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   One of the most distinctive and charming talents on TV … Richard Ayoade with Jo Brand in Travel Man. Photograph: NorthOne/Channel 4The Doctor Who Gave Up Drugs (BBC1)The Great British Bake Off (BBC1)Travel Man: 48 Hours In (Channel 4)Who Do You Think You Are? (BBC1)If you’d been a fly on the wall of any judging room, this was the one to pick. Did the voters choose to sympathise with the BBC for losing Bake Off, or punish Love Productions for flogging the format to Channel 4? If that tension produced a stand-off, then the frontrunner becomes Richard Ayoade, one of the most distinctive and charming talents on TV, for his hugely enjoyable travelogues.Baftas 2017: triumph for the TV shows never shown on TV Female performance in a comedy programmeDiane Morgan – Cunk on Shakespeare (BBC2)Lesley Manville – Mum (BBC2)Olivia Colman – Fleabag (BBC3)Phoebe Waller-Bridge – Fleabag (BBC3)This looks like a fight between two performances in Fleabag, the dark and dirty comedy that is part of an astonishingly strong showing (seven nominations) by the now online-only BBC3. Colman is a Bafta favourite, but it would seem unjust to choose her over the main performer, who also wrote it. Surely it has to be Phoebe Waller-Bridge.InternationalThe Night Of (HBO/Sky Atlantic)American Crime Story – The People Vs OJ Simpson (FX/BBC)Stranger Things (Netflix)Transparent (Amazon Prime)The rise of global streaming has complicated the identity of television: some argue that The Crown (its budget mainly US bucks) should have been in this category. From a foursome that advertises the quality of the new wave of US drama, the most deserving is The Night Of, HBO’s morally and racially complex dramatisation of a descent through the US legal system: a Bonfire of the Vanities for our times.Leading actorAdeel Akhtar – Murdered by My Father (BBC3)Babou Ceesay – Damilola, Our Loved Boy (BBC1)Benedict Cumberbatch – The Hollow Crown (BBC2)Robbie Coltrane – National Treasure (Channel 4)The bleak themes of contemporary TV drama are proved by the fact that the nominated actors were playing a serial killer, a sex criminal, a father who murdered his child and a father whose child was murdered. Two famous actors compete with an emerging pair here. Cumberbatch gave one of the best performances as Richard III in any medium ever, but TV Shakespeare is a hard watch for some, while Coltrane may suffer from being judged on only a single episode of his four against the whole single dramas of his rivals. So it’s probably Akhtar v Ceesay, with Akhtar taking it for his layered portrayal of a killing driven by love and faith.Leading actress      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Taking TV acting to rare areas of psychological depth … Sarah Lancashire in Happy Valley. Photograph: Ben Blackall/BBC/Red ProductionsClaire Foy – The Crown (Netflix)Jodie Comer – Thirteen (BBC3)Nikki Amuka-Bird – NW (BBC2)Sarah Lancashire – Happy Valley (BBC1)One of the toughest to call. Lancashire has taken TV acting to rare areas of psychological depth as DS Catherine Cawood, while Comer and Amuka-Bird suggested brilliant screen futures by playing characters with dangerous secrets. But if degree of difficulty is considered, then Foy, as the young Elizabeth II, must take the gold for portraying a deliberately unknowable monarch with uncanny physical and vocal accuracy but also plausible guesses at what was going on in the head of state’s head at key historical events.Live eventThe Centenary of the Battle of the Somme (BBC1)Shakespeare Live! From the RSC (BBC2)Stand Up to Cancer (Channel 4)The Queen’s 90th Birthday Celebration (ITV)The BBC-RSC gala to mark 400 years since Shakespeare’s death was, for me, the most terrible example so far of the current trend for the BBC to become a happy-clappy curator of arts performances rather than a journalistic examiner of them. It’s also up against three shows in which emotive content may sway votes. So, unless there were a lot of monarchists on the panel, it’s BBC1 Somme v Channel 4 Cancer, with the latter prevailing for tackling a devastating topic with wit and cleverness.Male performance in a comedy programmeAsim Chaudhry – People Just Do Nothing (BBC3)David Mitchell – Upstart Crow (BBC2)Harry Enfield – The Windsors (Channel 4)Steve Coogan – Alan Partridge’s Scissored Isle (Sky Atlantic)Two highly visible comedians – Mitchell and Coogan – compete with an emerging star, Chaudhry, and a re-emerging one, Enfield. It would be nice to see a future star recognised here in Chaudhry’s consciously post-Partridge portrayal of Brentford’s most shoddy entrepreneur.Miniseries      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A sharp drama exorcising TV’s collective guilt over Savile and Harris … National Treasure. Photograph: Joss Barratt/Channel 4The Hollow Crown (BBC2)National Treasure (Channel 4)The Secret (ITV)The Witness for The Prosecution (BBC1)ITV’s The Secret – dramatising real-life crimes of passion among a Northern Irish baptist congregation – was its best drama of a thin year, but may be hobbled by ethical concerns about fictionalising recent events. If so, then it’s two of the most famous English writers from the past – Shakespeare and Agatha Christie – against one of the most acclaimed young writers of the present, Jack Thorne, who has already, at 38, written four Bafta-winning series. National Treasure – a sharp drama exorcising TV’s collective guilt over Savile, Harris and others – deserves to give him a fifth.News coverageChannel 4 News: Brexit – Day One (Channel 4)BBC North West Tonight: Hillsborough Inquests (BBC1)Sky News Tonight – Aleppo: Death of a City (Sky News)Victoria Derbyshire (BBC2)Prizes for news are always a queasy concept. Are you admiring journalistic technique or honouring by proxy the horror of the events? So, if human emotion prevails, Hillsborough or Aleppo, but, if political emotion won out, Brexit, where Channel 4’s coverage was editorially bolder than the BBC’s. Personally, I’d go for Derbyshire, whose show, developed while fighting serious illness, has taken BBC news into fresh areas of subject matter and interactivity.Reality and constructed factualFirst Dates (Channel 4)Muslims Like Us (BBC2)The Real Marigold Hotel (BBC2)The Secret Life of 5 Year Olds (Channel 4)This list has generally been dominated by Channel 4, with a run of grabby participatory shows starting with Gogglebox and First Dates. BBC2 fought back last year and, with the two C4 shows both known quantities, the latecomer must stand a good chance with Muslims Like Us, a socially progressive Big Brother, in which 10 British muslims shared a house.Scripted comedy      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The boldest and most brilliantly executed TV comedy of the moment … Fleabag. Photograph: BBC/Two Brothers Pictures Ltd.Camping (Sky Atlantic)Fleabag (BBC3)Flowers (Channel 4)People Just Do Nothing (BBC3)In another two out of four for BBC3, the panel won’t have known (because judging takes place in isolation) if Phoebe Waller-Bridge has won a performance award, but may gamble that she has. Fleabag may also be marked down by some for having begun in theatre. If those factors apply, the other three stand a chance, but Fleabag is the boldest and most brilliantly executed TV comedy of the moment and should win.Single documentaryBehind Closed Doors (BBC1)Hillsborough (BBC1)How to Die: Simon’s Choice (BBC2)HyperNormalisation (BBCiPlayer)Another one where the judges deserved a strong drink afterwards, and possibly before. How to adjudicate between the televisual merits of domestic violence, 96 crushed football fans and euthanasia? Brian Woods is a film-maker revered in the industry, so his Behind Closed Doors, observing a unit helping women attacked by their partners, seems a strong contender. But Adam Curtis is also a Bafta favourite and his 246-minute HyperNormalisation, examining how fakery has trumped reality in modern culture, may well become the first BBC Bafta-winner never to have been shown on a TV network.Single dramaAberfan: The Green Hollow (BBC1)Damilola, Our Loved Boy (BBC1)Murdered by My Father (BBC3)NW (BBC2)In a BBC clean-sweep that is increasingly rare as distributors multiply, the first three contenders are all dramatisations of horrific real-life killings. NW stands out both by being fictional (from the Zadie Smith novel) and daring to be a tragi-comedy in a field otherwise filled with tragedies. I would give it to NW, for its structural and tonal boldness, but Damilola, Our Loved Boy would also be a worthy winner. Soap and continuing dramaCasualty (BBC1)EastEnders (BBC1)Emmerdale (ITV)Hollyoaks (Channel 4)The controversy here was the omission of Coronation Street, a frequent previous winner. Judges are instructed to ignore external factors, but it’s easy to look up who won last year (EastEnders) and to take note of anniversaries. Casualty was 30 years old in 2016 and the temptation to recognise that – and allow the possibility of a podium speech attacking Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt – may have proved impossible to ignore.Specialist factual      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   It’d be tough to overlook the 91-year-old father of British factual TV … Planet Earth II. Photograph: BBCAlan Bennett’s Diaries (BBC2)Attenborough’s Life That Glows (BBC2)Grayson Perry: All Man (Channel 4)Planet Earth II (BBC1)The Turner-winning artist Perry has reinvented and reinvigorated arts TV, and should win for that reason. But it would take a tough panel to overlook two entries from the 91-year-old father of British factual TV.Sport The Open (Sky Sports 1)Rio 2016 Olympics (BBC1)Rio 2016 Paralympics (Channel 4)Six Nations – England v Wales (ITV)Given that the argument is only possible every four years, it would be a shock if this did not come down to the Olympics v the Paralympics. As the coverage of the latter was generally fresher and more inventive, it should be Channel 4 that medals.Supporting actorDaniel Mays – Line of Duty (BBC2)Jared Harris – The Crown (Netflix)John Lithgow – The Crown (Netflix)Tom Hollander – The Night Manager (BBC1)Crucially, the judges here wouldn’t have known until shortlists were published that they were giving the only nods to Line of Duty and The Night Manager and may, in choosing their winner, have gambled on those shows having a bagful elsewhere. My hunch is King George VI v Winston Churchill in The Crown, with John Lithgow just edging it as a US actor memorably embodying the celebrated British prime minister.Supporting actress      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Making the simple emotion of parental heartbreak complex and nuanced … Wunmi Mosaku as Gloria Taylor with Babou Ceesay and Sammy Kamara in Damilola, Our Loved Boy. Photograph: Joe Alblas/BBC/Minnow FilmsNicola Walker – Last Tango in Halifax (BBC1)Siobhan Finneran – Happy Valley (BBC1)Vanessa Kirby – The Crown (Netflix)Wunmi Mosaku – Damilola, Our Loved Boy (BBC1)As in the equivalent male category, it’s hard to separate the four and it looks like a choice between longstanding quality and recent impact. Nicola Walker, a great actor unsung until very recently, is much admired in the profession, and was exceptional recently in ITV’s Unforgotten, which won’t come up at the awards until next year, but may help her over the line in this one. Just ahead of her for me would be Wunmi Mosaku, who made the simple emotion of parental heartbreak complex and nuanced in Damilola, Our Loved Boy.Virgin TV’s must-see momentGame of Thrones: Battle of the BastardsThe Late Late Show With James Corden: Carpool Karaoke with Michelle ObamaLine of Duty: urgent exit requiredPlanet Earth II: snakes v iguanas chaseStrictly Come Dancing: Ed Balls’ Gangnam StyleWho Do You Think You Are?: Danny Dyer’s originsThe newest prize – for a moment that goes viral – is the toughest to predict. Corden v Balls, perhaps, with the hoofing former Chief Secretary to the Treasury taking it by a small majority.