Galen That the Best Physician Is also a Philosopher (cAD180)Many would start with Hippocrates, but Galen’s short text, from about cAD180, absorbs much of the clunky wisdom of the Hippocratic writers and timelessly recasts it. Written in the same Greek as the Gospels, and around the same time, there are parallels in its philosophy: “For it is impossible at the same time [for a physician] to engage in business, and to practise so great an Art; you must despise one of them if you are to press on with all speed towards the other.”Thomas Browne Religio Medici (1643) (The Religion of a Doctor)A slew of magnificent, revolutionary books on medicine came out of the Renaissance, written by the likes of Vesalius and Paracelsus, but for mind-bending perspectives and an elegant intersplicing of the medical and the literary, you can’t do better than Browne: “I that have examined the parts of man, and know upon what tender filaments that Fabrick hangs, doe wonder that we are not alwayes so [sick]; and considering the thousand dores that lead to death doe thanke my God that we can die but once.”Mikhail Bulgakov A Country Doctor’s Notebook (1925)       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mikhail Bulgakov Photograph: AlamyComing towards the 20th century it is a tough choice between the medical stories of Chekhov and Bulgakov, but the latter’s A Country Doctor’s Notebook examines with exemplary humility the rabbit-in-the‑headlights shock experienced by every new junior doctor, as relevant now as it was when Bulgakov qualified in 1916 – here he is confronted with a strangulated hernia: “Forty-eight days ago I qualified ‘with distinction’; but distinction is one thing, and hernia is another.”William Carlos Williams The Doctor Stories (1932-62)Bulgakov and Williams were almost exact contemporaries. Williams, better known as a modernist poet, was a physician for most of his career in Rutherford, New Jersey, and wrote exquisite stories that feel like direct transcriptions from the clinic. In a passage from his autobiography, he gives a moving and utterly persuasive argument for the value of medical work in the creation of literature: “That is why as a writer I have never felt that medicine interfered with me but rather that it was my very food and drink, the very thing which made it possible for me to write.”John Berger A Fortunate Man (1997)In 1966 Berger went to live with a rural GP in Gloucestershire, and for six weeks accompanied him on every clinic and home visit. The result is a masterpiece of witness, sensitively exploring the way medical practice offers daily reflections on existential questions. Berger asks: “What is the effect of facing, trying to understand, hoping to overcome the extreme anguish of other persons five or six times a week?”Sylvia Plath The Bell Jar (1963)Published in January 1963 under a pseudonym, only a month before Plath killed herself, The Bell Jar is a glimpse into one experience of profound suicidal anguish, as well as the failings of 1950s psychiatry. The description of ECT is unforgettable: “Then something bent down and took hold of me and shook me like the end of the world. Whee-ee-ee‑ee-ee, it shrilled, through an air crackling with blue light … I thought my bones would break and the sap fly out of me like a split plant.”Oliver Sacks The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat (1985)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Neurologist Oliver Sacks Photograph: Adam Scourfield/API first encountered this book in 1997, having recently graduated with a degree in neuroscience; I promptly wrote to Sacks in New York to ask if I could join him in clinic. His gracious rebuttal cited pressures on his time, and regretted the decline in his clinical and teaching work (he was by then 64). “Hat”, as he called it, inspired a whole genre of philosophically reflective medical writing, nourished by art and literature. This dazzling essay articulates the fury Sontag felt at the lazy thinking that cling to western ideas of health Susan Sontag Illness as Metaphor (1978)This dazzling essay articulates the fury Sontag felt at the lazy thinking and muddled metaphors that cling to western ideas of health and sickness – particularly those that turn blame on the sufferer: “A disease of the lungs is, metaphorically, a disease of the soul … ‘Malignant’ or ‘Benign’ tumours are like forms of demonic possession.”William Styron Darkness Visible: A Memoir of Madness (1990)Styron’s book belongs to a tradition reaching back from Andrew Solomon’s The Noonday Demon: An Atlas of Depression to Rufus of Ephesus’s On Melancholy, by way of Robert Burton’s Anatomy of Melancholy: eloquent, panoramic and forensic examinations of the illness we call “depression” (Styron suggests we call it “brainstorm”). He details his “zombie-like” descent into a hell of despair, and his return to life as a kind of redemption. “There came over me the knowledge – a weird and shocking revelation, like that of some long-beshrouded metaphysical truth – that this condition would cost me my life.”Eula Biss On Immunity: An Inoculation (2014)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: David Cheskin/PAAs a study of vaccination, interleaving personal memoir with literature, mythology, folklore and hard science, On Immunity belongs on the shelf alongside Siddhartha Mukherjee’s treatment of cancer in The Emperor of All Maladies. As a new mother, Biss felt suffocated by anxieties over whether to vaccinate her son, and, instead of giving in to them, embarked on a poetic exploration of inoculation. Reviewing it in these pages, I called it “lyrical and impassioned, lucid and enlightening”; Biss has a tremendous feel for the subtleties of language: “I hung up the phone and fell asleep with my face on a pile of articles about herd immunity. I woke to find that a fragment of print had been transferred to my cheek. It spelled ‘munity’, from the Latin munis for service or duty. ‘Munity is what you are really writing about’, a colleague would say to me months later.”• Gavin Francis Adventures in Human Being is out now in paperback.