Choosing a single Salinger book for the Reading group has proved tricky. If I’d asked last week which book you didn’t want to read, there would have been no contest: The Catcher in the Rye barely got a look in, and when it did appear in the comments, it was mainly from people suggesting it had already been done to death.The flipside was that there is so much interest in Salinger’s other books. The majority opinion seems to be that we should try to look at more than one book, as they are all so interconnected. Franny and Zooey gained the most nominations, so I think we should start there – but if possible, I’ll try to leave room for some of the Nine Stories, too.But for now: Franny and Zooey. What to make of it? A good place to start is the cover.A book for the beach: Franny and Zooey by JD Salinger I have an early 1962 edition that my wife found in a charity shop. It’s a beautiful, strange object. The front is nearly all white, with a green stripe down the left hand side, bleeding in from the spine. There is nothing on it but the name of the book and the author in a mock-handwritten script, which marks the only concession to any kind of artistic flourish. The back is exactly the same, only with the stripe running down the right.It breaks all the usual rules, except those set by Salinger and his people. As Simon Prosser, the publishing director at Hamish Hamilton explained last time there was a UK redesign of the Salinger list: “There are strict rules about JD Salinger’s covers. The only copy allowed on the books, back or front, is the author name and the title. Nothing else at all: no quotes, no cover blurb, no biography. We’re not really sure why this is, but it gives you definite guidelines.”I’m not going to enter the perilous business of second-guessing JD Salinger, but I can give a few possible reasons for why there should be this insistence on plain covers. Firstly, there’s a widely reported story that he objected when characters were depicted on the front of one of his books, because he wanted readers to form an independent impression of how they might look. Secondly, and more simply, plain covers look great (although I have to confess to a certain bias in that regard). Thirdly, they also loudly proclaim that JD Salinger is a serious, world-conquering writer who can do what the heck he likes. That his name is more than enough to sell copies by itself. That when it comes to the business of novels, it’s his world and we’re just visiting.Salinger’s power is further underlined by the fact that he’s written the jacket text in the first person. I’m sure authors write such copy sometimes, but it is never normally prefaced with the words, “The author writes”, as it is on my copy of Franny and Zooey. Never normally written from the point of view of me, myself and I. Yet here is Salinger: Both stories are early, critical entries in a narrative series I’m doing in a family of settlers in 20th-century New York, the Glasses. It is a long-term project, patently an ambitious one, and there is a real-enough danger, I suppose, that sooner or later, I’ll bog down, perhaps disappear entirely, in my own methods, locutions, and mannerisms.This copy is doubtful, self-questioning and self-indulgent. Salinger barely deigns to explain what the book contains or why anyone might want to read it. The rest of the blurb goes deeper into his intentions to finish the series, the original publication history of the novellas, and vague, vague notes about the other material he has “on paper”. There’s also a gloriously elliptical bit of biography that he says his wife has insisted he include: “I live in Westport with my dog.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   My 1962 edition of Franny and Zooey. Photograph: Sam JordisonIt’s a mark of Salinger’s power that not only can he get away with writing this stuff, it is absolutely fascinating. A long-term project?! There’s maybe more of it? Or he maybe got bogged down? Given everything else that we know – and don’t know – about Salinger, this is dynamite.It’s scintillating to think that Franny and Zooey could be just one small part of an ongoing saga, an opus far more magnum than the scraps of published material we have. It’s equally intriguing to think of this book as one of the last things that this world-changing writer produced. It’s also fascinating to think about the kind of man who would so stubbornly plough his own furrow and break all publishing conventions in the process. It’s simultaneously among the very best and very worst book cover copy I’ve read. Probably more of the former than the latter - because I know one thing: it made me all the more eager to get stuck in and start reading. I can’t wait. I’ll return with thoughts about the actual contents in a week’s time. In the meantime, you might enjoy this fine piece of advocacy from Nicola Davis in the Guardian’s Book For the Beach series. Have a look too at this contemporary review from the New York Times: it is full of doubt, but also includes the stirring notion that a book like this one “makes adventurers of us all”.As a final persuasion, we have five copies to give away to the first five readers from the UK to post “I want a copy please”, along with a nice, constructive comment in the comments section below. If you’re lucky enough to be one of the first to comment, email Sian Cain with your address (sian.cain@theguardian.com). Be nice to her, too. And as usual, all suggestions and ideas for future discussions will be gratefully received.