This book is about a 13 year old girl called Hollie. She lives with her younger brother and they’re cared for by her older brother. Life has been tough for them since their dad left and their mum died. Can you imagine a life without parents?Hollie is an ambitious and determined girl and always willing to put her family first. She is very optimistic and looks for the positives in every situation even if it’s tough. But when she and her 2 brothers find themselves in some deep financial troubles Hollie must take on responsibility that no teenage girl should have. They can’t afford some luxuries that most of us have like new school shoes or proper meals. Something must be done! They can’t live off beans and toast for the rest of their lives! Suddenly a beacon of hope is brought through the death of a distant relative. So Hollie and her 2 brothers embark on a journey in search of their aunt’s hidden treasure but only to find the it in the hands of an unexpected individual... One thing I love about this book is the description. For example, the author’s intriguing metaphor for the sea: The sea was a dark navy blue and always moving, all the time, in busy little wavelets. Below the sun, it sparkled, a great patch of white light, and round the edges of the sun stain, the tips of the waves glittered and danced with light. The whole ocean looked happy to be alive.One thing I would improve is that in a few parts of the book, I feel as if the writing is a bit rushed, especially towards the end of the book, for example, and it let the rest of her writing down the slightest bit. However, above all I loved the book in many other aspects.How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? This book is special for many things but mainly because it expresses that some of us aren’t as fortunate as lots of people and sometimes we expect things like new clothes or good food on our tables. This book is is an original and imaginative story and also has accessible language making it appeal to a wide variety of 10+ ages. I would recommend this to someone looking for a great new read.I would rate it 4 out of 5 stars. It definitely deserves to be a one of the Guardian’s children fiction prize longlistees!Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read?Join the site and send us your review!