You know a designer’s made it when they are confident enough in their fashion credentials to produce a diffusion range for the high street. So it is with Victoria Beckham, whose range for Target goes on sale on Sunday 9 April on her website for buyers in the UK and throughout Target stores in the US. Here’s our pick of the best items to snap up.The Plain Trousers, £40 (see main picture)With designer collaborations, it is tempting to go straight for the recognisable pieces. The out-of-the-box singles of the album, as it were. Resist. Everyone has them, and they date quickly. An under-the-radar signature piece is much more canny. Long, wide-legged trousers are something VB has always done brilliantly, and these are more Victoria-Beckham-in-real-life than cut-price VB. They come in black as well as fuchsia.Gingham peplum top and cropped trousers, £30 each      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Victoria Beckham for Target. Photograph: Blake Cohen/prA brilliant two-piece. This could be your off-on-holiday look, sorted. Bringing the turn-left, Riviera-classic summer glamour to the easyJet check-in queue this summer.The pale green lace dress, £40 (see main picture)This is a dress shape from the VB archive. I have pretty much this exact cut of dress, in red silk with cream cats on it, which I bought from the spring/summer 2012 collection, and I still wear it because it is chic and flattering and I say that as someone who usually looks terrible in shirt-style dresses. This version, in pistachio green French lace on a nude background, is highly recommended. This will also be available for children for the me-and-my-mini-me look, if that’s your bag.For the babes: knitted bunny leggings, £30 for the set (see main picture)If you have a child aged two or younger and you do not buy this outfit and force them to wear it on Easter Sunday then, frankly, what did you have children FOR? This is payback for childbirth, right here. The Bonpoint-ish grey-brown colour saves it from being too saccharine. For the Harper in your life: the dress with the bunny on the collar, £20, the transparent anorak, £35, and the scalloped dress, £23      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Victoria Beckham for Target. Photograph: Blake Cohen/prMost high street childrenswear is garishly coloured. The blush, black and mushroom shades of this range make it look expensive – think Roksanda, Chloe and Stella McCartney – at snap-it-up prices.