Erstwhile Cook columnist Ruby Tandoh ushered 2017 in with a defence of sliced white bread: sales of the supermarket staple were down, yet again, and something had to be done. “I’m sorry to say that there are toast crumbs in my keyboard, again,” she wrote. “I am a fiend for bread.” While our love for breads with heft and pluck – the sourdoughs, ryes and multigrains of this world – knows no bounds, it is true that there are times when only cheap white bread will do. Why? Because it’s soft and regular, as sweet as cream and as pillowy as cloud. For bacon or sausage sarnies, grilled cheese, bread and butter pudding, eggs with soldiers, or just good old buttered toast – be it neat, or with honey or Marmite – sliced white is what you want, artificial additives notwithstanding. Here are our top recipes from the Cook archive.Rich Turner’s monte cristo sandwichSandwiching ham and cheese between two slices of French toast is about as good as it gets, really. This is Hawksmoor chef Richard Turner’s version. For veggies, we recommend Rachel Roddy’s superb mozzarella in carozza. And we’re on the lookout for a decent vegan version too: everyone should get to enjoy the goodness that is an eggy bread grilled cheese.Makes 22 eggsSalt and black pepper4 slices white bread 2 tbsp mustard2 tbsp mayonnaise200g leftover cooked ham, thickly sliced50g gruyere cheese, grated2 tbsp butterIcing sugar, for dustingMaple syrup, to serve1 Beat the eggs in a shallow dish (large enough to fit a sandwich). Season with salt and pepper. Set aside.2 Assemble the sandwiches with mustard, mayonnaise, ham, cheese, salt and pepper to your preference. Slightly squash them.3 Melt the butter in a frying pan over a medium heat. Dip and coat each sandwich in beaten egg, then fry for 2-3 minutes on each side, until browned to your liking and the cheese has melted.4 Dust with icing sugar. Serve with a sauceboat of warm maple syrup on the side.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Richard Turner of Hawksmoor’s monte cristo sandwich. Photograph: Dan Jones for the GuardianDeb Perelman’s boiled eggs with buttery herb‑gruyere toast soldiersBlogger and writer Deb Perelman’s original recipe called for sourdough, but when it comes to solidiers, supermarket white can’t really be beaten.Serves 4 4 slices of white bread4 tbsp unsalted butter, melted1 tsp dijon mustardSalt and black pepper40g gruyere cheese, finely grated2 tbsp parmesan, finely grated 1 tbsp flat-leaf parsley, finely chopped1 tsp thyme leaves, finely chopped4 large eggs1 Set the oven to 200C/400F/gas mark 6. Cut the bread into 16 soldiers, then marshal the troops in a shallow, wide bowl. Whisk together the butter and dijon, then pour this over the bread. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, the cheeses, parsley and thyme. Bake for about 20 minutes, or until crisp and golden.2 Meanwhile, cook the eggs. Bring a pot of water to a steady boil . Add the eggs and simmer for exactly 6 minutes, then drain and rinse briefly in cold water.3 Serve the eggs in egg cups with the cheesy toast soldiers alongside. Alternatively, you can peel them carefully, arrange on a small plate with four soldiers, then smash the egg lightly with a fork. Season and serve.Claire Ptak's courgette cheese puffs and zucchini bread recipes | Baking the seasons Claire Ptak’s strawberry bread pudding (main picture)Adapted from the original, slightly more decadent, brioche pud, this is the best way to use up stale slices. Swap out the strawberries for something more seasonal: blueberries, pears, clementines, even figs, would all work.Serves 4-6500g stale sliced white bread100g currants100g unsalted butter, sliced1 large egg3 egg yolks200g milk 500g sour cream 2 tsp vanilla extract Zest of 1 orange 50g caster sugar¼ tsp salt50g flaked almonds2 tbsp demerara sugar500g strawberries (or other seasonal fruit), hulled and quartered ½ vanilla pod150g golden caster sugarDouble cream, to serve1 Butter a large loaf tin. Have ready a roasting dish large enough to put the loaf tin inside it. Line a small roasting tin with baking paper, for the strawberries.2 Arrange the bread slices in the tin snugly, in an upright position. Sprinkle over the currants. Press slices of butter them between the layers.3 In a bowl, whisk together the egg, yolks, milk, sour cream, vanilla and orange zest. Stir in the sugar and salt, then pour over the bread. Prod with a fork and soak for 45 minutes. Press any unsoaked bits of bread down under the custard, but don’t let it overflow.4 Set the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4. Sprinkle the flaked almonds and demerara sugar over the bread mix. Put the tin in the roasting dish. Pour water into the roasting dish until it reaches at least 2cm up the side of the loaf tin. Bake for 40-45 minutes, or until set.5 Meanwhile, put the fruit in the small roasting tin, add the vanilla pod and sprinkle with sugar. Roast for 25 minutes. When the pudding is ready to serve, cover with the fruit and juices. Serve with plenty of cold cream.Taste test: supermarket white loavesSupermarket white breads are all much of a muchness in texture and flavour (not to mention additives) – or are they? We tested five standard loaves to find out.Hovis soft white £1 a loaf, 93kcal a sliceLovely texture – soft and moist. Pappy, but with enough flake in the crumb to feel like bread and not just dough. Perfect for a ham sandwich. Not much aroma, but the taste’s authentic. Toast comes out too close to the dry French variety for our liking: needs a mountain of butter. 3/5Waitrose soft white farmhouse loaf £1.25 a loaf, 119kcal a sliceAh! Definitely a smell of bread when you rip the packet open. Doesn’t do too well in sandwich-making: it tears when we try to apply butter. Still, not too damp, and not too dry. Makes a great chicken sandwich, and excellent toast: steamy innards, crusty outer, soaks up the butter like a dream. The crowdpleasing loaf. 4/5Warburtons medium sliced white£1 a loaf, 98kcal a sliceNot much of a smell but a lovely glutinous crumb. Cool; sticky, even, and doesn’t fall apart. Cries out for peanut butter, folded over twice into a putty-like pillow, if you like that sort of thing. Does not do so well for morning toast: it comes out as dry as a cracker. On the plus side, it is lower in sugar than Waitrose’s. 3/5Sainsbury’s medium soft white bread  60p a loaf, 94 kcal a sliceThe budget option, but not that different. Scant flavour or aroma. Clammy, like a weak handshake – has this seen an oven? And yet somehow it dries out before you’ve buttered it. It does make a palatable ham sandwich though. Toasted, it has an acceptable moist-crisp ratio, but it’s still tasteless and needs smothering with butter and marmalade. On the plus side, it uses sustainable palm oil. 2/5Baltona white artisan bread£1.30, 88 kcals a sliceIt was incumbent on us to try at least one posh loaf, and with its lack of additives, hoity-toity sourdough culture and authentic, just-baked, nutty aroma, this one does feel out of place. It has an actual crust. That said, sandwich-wise it’s too dry, and a bit dull: it needs loading up with mayo, salad, tomatoes. Toasted, it fares much better: moist throughout and flavourful. 3½/5Dave Hall