I can’t quite get used to New Adam, the nicest man in the world. James Nesbitt just shouldn’t play Mr Nice Guy. But after spotting Pete’s depression last week, he’s now going to the doc with him. And helping Jenny dispense with her silly stalker storyline. Being an understanding dad too, and an understanding new husband. Of course he shouldn’t get in the way of Angela’s career, she should go back to Singapore to take that promotion, he can join her later. Unless he just wants her out of the way so he can rack up a few Airbnb miles with the hot landlady …David’s moral trajectory is definitely on the slide. The police come knocking early. No, it’s not about the speeding points, even if he seems hell-bent on going down for them. It’s about property fraud this time, though he’s claiming innocence. Then, on the cheer-up-Pete bike race, he cheats. He can’t seem to decide whether he’s Chris Huhne, Charles Ponzi, or Lance bloody Armstrong. Oh, but then he fesses up to the bike cheating; perhaps middle-age brings with it a conscience.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   No more Mr Nice Guy … I can’t get used to New Adam, the nicest man in the world. Photograph: Ben Blackall/Big Talk Productions/ITVKaren finally gets it on with rich Eddie, while his helicopter hovers outside the window. Oh, it was all a dream. For now … that one can be dragged out a little longer. And Pete’s coming to terms with his depression, taking his pills at least, and still visiting poor old Harry-in-the-home. But Harry has had enough, and asks Pete to kill him. Pete says no of course … then agrees! And holds a pillow down over Harry’s face. WTF! Where did that come from? One minute Pete can’t decide whether or not he wants a coffee, the next he’s murdering the man he cares for. Very awkward that one – ISSUE (euthanasia) inserted a little roughly. Maybe it’s the medication. Luckily Harry survives the assault, and when he asks Pete to have another crack, he’s changed his mind again.Other ISSUESMiddle age, crises, age-gap relationships, depression, all ongoing. Plus: careers v relationships; older dating; body confidence (or losing it); the strain put on the NHS by an ageing population; KILLING HARRY.Classic Cold Feet moment Karen finally asking Eddie in for coffee, and more, and then breakfast. Fade in: Hold Back the River by James Bay, a very Cold Feet kind of track. 