Jean-Paul Goude, who has had a hand in both Grace Jones’ and Kim Kardashian’s image, has redesigned – or, as he says, “reinterpreted” – the Lacoste crocodile for a capsule collection launching this November. The occasion demanded a party at Paris fashion week, complete with animatronic crocodiles. Of course it did. Goude made time to speak to us before the event opened. Here’s what we found out.Goude’s aesthetic is informed by Paris Specifically the 12th, where he grew up “between the zoo and the natural history museum”, the location of the party. “I used to come here and caress the naked lady sculptures,” he says.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jean-Paul Goude’s revised Lacoste logo. Photograph: LacosteHe has other plans for those crocodilesGoude, a 75-year-old man with a secret stash of energy that the rest of us don’t, is going to repurpose the “ballet of crocodiles” here for a bigger idea. “In the film The Merry Widow, there’s a scene with 50 dancers. I want to recreate that.” You don’t doubt he will.Working with Grace Jones was ‘an arm wrestle’Goude collaborated with Jones on her artwork “from 1978-83”, when she recorded Nightclubbing and Warm Leatherette. “She was amazing before and after,” he says. Whatever wrangling has taken place since over who did what, it was “one step towards show business”, he says with a shrug.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The new Lacoste logo on a bag. Photograph: LacosteKim Kardashian was a different challenge“I didn’t have a sensual attraction to her,” says Goude. But he knew how to get her much-discussed bottom discussed even further with her Paper cover in 2014. “I overdid the shininess,” he says. As for breaking the internet, he smiles. “I don’t take that stuff seriously,” he says.Goude is, it turns out, born to do itHis mother was an Irish-American dancer and his father, who worked as an engineer at IBM, has fashion on his side. “His father owned a trimmings shop opposite galleries Lafayette,” says Goude. “Perhaps if that wasn’t the case, I wouldn’t be here.” With those energy levels, we’re not so sure.