New York gets all the attention but in my experience Chicago is just as vibrant a theatrical city. In some ways even more so, because it is free from the intense commercial pressures of Broadway. Robert Falls, who runs the prestigious Goodman theatre, put it succinctly some years ago. “If you have a success in Chicago,” he told me, “it’s pleasant, but it doesn’t change your life. And if you have a failure, people still speak to you the next day.”Bard on the wire: how Chicago scored a hit with Shakespeare and Leonard Cohen The city is also a hotbed of new writing and, in the course of a trip to see Chicago Shakespeare Theater’s Tug of War: Foreign Fire, I caught two premieres by writers well-known in Britain: Tracy Letts and Rebecca Gilman. Letts is mainly identified with his epic family drama August: Osage County, but his latest play, Mary Page Marlowe at Steppenwolf theatre, is ambitious in a different way. It attempts nothing less than to put on stage, in under an hour and a half, the nonlinear story of a woman’s life. The titular figure is not presented as heroic or especially admirable, simply a woman who, in her experience of divorce, family-raising and infidelity, never fully works out who she is. She remains a mystery to herself.Six actors portray Mary at various stages, between 12 and 69. But Letts starts in the middle, with the 40-year-old Mary explaining to her two children that she is separating from their father and moving from Ohio to Kentucky – a prospect that her daughter, who is going with her, greets with shrieking horror. Letts then flips back and forth in time, depicting the multiple facets of Mary: the child who suffers emotional neglect; the muddled woman who gets through three husbands, several affairs and takes to the bottle; and eventually, the older self who recognises her life has been like the patchwork quilt she seeks to have repaired, with the words: “It’s very fragile.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Exquisitely staged … Tess Frazer, Annie Munch and Ariana Venturi in Steppenwolf’s production of Mary Page Marlowe. Photograph: Michael BrosilowThe play is elliptical, moving and imbued with the sense that human identity is constantly reinvented according to circumstance. The piece is exquisitely staged by Steppenwolf’s director, Anna D Shapiro, and, of all the Marys on display I was especially struck by Blair Brown, who shows the most senior version looking back on her switchback life with stoic tranquillity.Rebecca Gilman, whose Luna Gale was recently seen at Hampstead theatre, in London, has written a more overtly political play for the Goodman, entitled Soups, Stews and Casseroles: 1976. The title needs a bit of explaining. It refers to a homemade recipe book put out by women at a Wisconsin cheese-manufacturing firm for the American bicentennial. The dramatic crisis arises when this small business is taken over by a large Chicago company: they lay off workers, introduce automated packaging and put profits before people. But Gilman’s success lies in showing the impact this has on one family: Kim, whose integrity is compromised by the offer of a managerial job, his wife Kat, who is torn between her local friendships and desire for a better life, and their daughter Kelly, who is a born radical struck on a local union organiser.Some of Gilman’s plotting is predictable but this is, as far as I know, the first American play since Clifford Odets’s Waiting for Lefty in 1935 that has ended with an injunction for workers to strike. Gilman also shows how the local is universal by reminding us that the takeover of a Wisconsin dairy firm is a metaphor for corporate ruthlessness throughout the US. Falls’s excellent production, rooted in a specific time and place, gets first-rate performances from Cliff Chamberlain and Cora Vander Broek as a couple caught up in the contradictions of capitalism. The play subverts the cliche that American drama ducks public issues and confirms that Chicago is the place to go for exciting new drama as well as for boldly inventive Shakespeare.