If there is one ingredient I just couldn’t live without, it would be garlic. From its ridiculous versatility to its widely researched health benefits, garlic even acts as a natural flavour enhancer, adding a rich depth to pretty much any savoury dish. If you have never grown it before, you are in for a real treat and right now is the perfect time to start.If you want the maximum taste and health benefits from garlic you really do have to go straight to the source. My favourite variety for flavour is an old Eastern European cultivar called ‘Red Duke’, which is as fierce and fiery as they get, mellowing to rich, complex umaminess when cooked.Like most of the “hardneck” garlic varieties, it is more closely related to garlic’s wild ancestor in the mountains of Afghanistan than the boring and bland “softneck” varieties that dominate the supermarket shelves. This rugged constitution means it churns out more of the pungent sulphur-based chemicals that help defend the plant from attack from insects, fungal diseases and bacterial infections, making it much easier to grow in soggy old Blighty. It’s these exact same chemicals that also give garlic its characteristic flavour and associated health benefits, so it is a hands-down winner all round.Pick the sunniest spot you have and plant individual cloves 15cm apart any time between now and late January, and water in well. Scattering a couple of tablespoons of Epsom salts over each square metre of planting bed can up the strength of your garlic. This is because garlic produces its flavour compounds using the sulphur it sucks up from the soil. As many British soils are sulphur-deficient, correcting this imbalance will pay dividends.After this the plants are pretty much happy to just get on with it, only needing the occasional watering during very dry periods, and offer up nearly eight times the amount you put in by next June.Even once you have harvested garlic there are two tricks you can do to improve flavour and nutrition. This is because allicin, the active ingredient in garlic, is not really found in intact cloves at all but is only generated when you damage the bulbs by chopping or slicing them.Two compounds held in different parts of cells suddenly mix, generating a chemical reaction that churns out the good stuff. So the finer you chop it, the better. Prolonged cooking destroys one of the compounds in garlic that is responsible for the reaction. But adding a tiny amount of raw stuff at the end of cooking (about 10% the amount used in the cooked dish) replaces enough of it to spark it off again, as if by magic, making the cooked version potentially as good as raw. Good luck!Email James at james.wong@observer.co.uk or follow him on Twitter @Botanygeek