Sob story: how This Is Us brought the TV tearjerker back to life There are hot streaks, and then there’s the run currently being enjoyed by Sterling K Brown. After over a decade of working diligently on stage and screen without great fanfare, the St Louis, Missouri native burst into the popular consciousness in 2016 with two remarkable TV roles. First, in The People v OJ Simpson: American Crime Story, there was his multi-layered incarnation of Christopher Darden, the African-American prosecutor who risked his reputation – and his standing in the black community – in a doomed attempt to bring the inscrutable maybe-murderer to justice. Then, in NBC’s emotive ensemble drama This Is Us, currently airing on Channel 4, Brown plays Randall Pearson, an upstanding suburban family man and well-paid professional who must contend with the daily micro-aggressions faced by a black man in a white environment, and the reappearance of his terminally ill father, a recovering drug addict.Both roles offer a compelling window into the complexities of black masculinity at a time where race is at the forefront of the US cultural and political conversation, a time blighted by an incessant recent string of high-profile of instances of police brutality visited upon black and brown bodies. Christopher Darden and Randall Pearson are characters imbued with earnest intensity and disarming wit by the 40-year-old, for which he has been showered with recognition. For Darden, Brown received a Critics’ Choice award, an Emmy and a Golden Globe nomination (he popped up with his OJ co-star Courtney B Vance in an amusing cameo appearance for the latter awards show’s opening number, crooning the line “Not all the nominees are white!”). He’s also been nominated for the two performances in the outstanding performance in a drama series, and television movie or miniseries categories at the upcoming Screen Actors Guild awards.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Brown with Sarah Paulson in The People v OJ Simpson. Photograph: N/A/Fox/BBCThe People v OJ Simpson: American Crime Story As if any more evidence of Brown’s good year was needed, moments before our chat begins, news breaks that he’s been cast in Marvel’s Black Panther. Due for release in 2018, the film boasts an unprecedentedly rich roster of black screen talent including Michael B Jordan, Angela Bassett, Chadwick Boseman, Lupita Nyong’o and Forest Whitaker. So just how excited is Brown to be part of it?“Man, I am through the roof,” the self-confessed comic book fiend purrs down the line from his LA home. “When I was a kid, the opportunity to see a black superhero in a large-scale studio production was not something that happened with great frequency. Now, the fact that my kids – I got two boys, five and one – get a chance to grow up seeing black superheroes as a regular thing, as not an exception but the rule ... I am so moved to be a part of this story.”With the likes of Black Panther on the horizon, the recent US success of films such as Moonlight and Hidden Figures and TV shows Atlanta and Empire, these are particularly exciting times for complex black representation in the mainstream media. “I feel like for such a long time there was an idea that it was not commercially viable to tell stories for people of colour,” agrees Brown. “But as the world is expanding and diversifying, it’s becoming clear that it’s necessary to tell stories with diverse casts that address the different populations that are on this planet; all of a sudden what seemed to be anathema is now becoming commonplace. It’s a really crazy, wonderful time to be an actor.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Susan Kelechi Watson and Brown in This Is Us. Photograph: Ron Batzdorff/NBCIdeas of authenticity and acceptance are central to Brown’s two signature characters. The actor is particularly thrilled to have played a pivotal role in resurrecting the reputation of Darden, a severely maligned figure about whom Brown himself had grave misgivings at the time of the OJ trial.“‘Why is this black man trying to tear another black man down?’ I thought back then,” he says. “‘This is like crabs in a barrel, we’re not supposed to be doing this.’” But stepping into Darden’s shoes gave him a new perspective. “Looking at the evidence with which the prosecution was presented, and the overwhelming amount of DNA evidence that they had, it’s like: ‘Wow, he was just trying to do his job,’” he continues. “I had the opportunity to release all of the judgment that I had about him.” Meanwhile, Randall in This Is Us overcomes a tough start to make a triumph of his life, a role that resonates with Brown.“I have the opportunity to play an African-American male who is happily married, with two beautiful children and a beautiful home,” he says. “It’s not lost on me that the power of that image speaks volumes in and of itself. There are times when people will approach me and say: ‘Yo, seeing Randall helped me, it gives me an image that I can hold on to as a black male, that empowers me.’”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sterling K Brown has just been cast in the Black Panther film. Illustration: Alexander WellsSterling K Brown: 'I allow myself to think about winning an Emmy' But it’s not all plain sailing for Randall. There’s an excellent scene in the fourth episode where his white neighbours call the cops on his elderly father William (hauntingly played by Mr Robot star Ron Cephas Jones) for, well, simply existing in a white neighbourhood.“It is a very interesting life, navigating a white world when you are a minority,” says Brown. “There are certain things that will transpire that will infuriate you; you know you are being treated in a way that not everyone is, and now you have to ask: ‘What is my recourse. Do I play the part of the angry black man, or do I catch more bees with honey than I do with vinegar?’ It varies. Some people maintain their sanity by fighting. Some people just want to keep the peace so they can make it home for another night with their family. Randall is more toward the latter.”Christopher Darden and Randall Pearson are dogged, ultimately likable types, while the simmering emotion of both men is clearly a product of the actor drawing on his own experience. Just before we finish our chat, Brown’s distinctive baritone drops lower, turns to a whisper: “Life itself sometimes as a black man feels like success, if you can maintain it and hold on to it and continue to thrive. Hopefully, one day, 50 years from now, people will look back on these shows and say: ‘Wow, I can’t believe life was like that’.”This Is Us continues Tuesday, 11.05pm, Channel 4