The vicarage garden has long been neglected, home to an impenetrable thicket of bindweed, bramble and disgusting plastic rubbish smuggled in by those shrieking foxes. This year the resistance began. Not knowing the first thing about gardens, and driven by little more than shame at the state it’s got into, I set about one small corner, hacking my way through ferocious weeds and thorns, them viciously biting back. A few months into this war of the roses and my defiantly urban soul has been strangely touched by the gentle magic of gardening. I am now watering, tending, watching; childishly excited about how my tomatoes are getting on. The other day I even built my own compost heap.For as long as I can remember, I have thought of the garden as little more than a flat parcel of land outside the back door, where the dog has a wee; no more interesting than the venue for an occasional BBQ and football kickabout. Certainly of no particular intellectual or moral interest. Which was pretty stupid of me – especially given that the Bible gives a whopping big clue that moral knowledge is first discovered among the apple trees of that first legendary garden, expulsion from which marked the beginning of the great salvation drama of Judao-Christianity.The garden, of course, is where human art and the anarchy of nature meet and battle it out. The traditionally French approach – famously exemplified at Versailles – has been for nature to appear subservient to human will, forcing even trees and shrubs to express their fealty to the Bourbon monarchy by lining up straight and standing to attention in clipped symmetrical rows. By contrast, the traditional English garden flatters nature with the illusion of its victory – though it is no less the product of artifice and design than the French garden. But whatever one’s aesthetic (or is it political?) point of view, the garden remains a thrilling meeting point of humanity and the natural world. From behind a wheelbarrow, you are a part of something bigger than yourself. In silent reverie, you cooperate with forces that are not yours to control, nursing life and beauty and nourishment into existence. No wonder monks have always loved a garden. My younger self would have scoffed at these evening rounds of deadheading as a bourgeois retreat into some selfish domestic idyll. But as a place of healing for the mind and repair for the soul, I have found nowhere better. And a recent study by the King’s Fund, Gardens and Health: implications for policy and practice, gave an evidence-based version of that same answer.Of course, some gardens do reek of private privilege. The ill-fated garden bridge across the Thames is deeply unpopular with so many south Londoners precisely because it takes £60m of taxpayers’ money and creates a flashy entertainment space that can be closed off and hired out as an expensive corporate playground. As more and more of the capital’s public space is being privatised, the garden bridge is a line that should not be crossed.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Guerrilla gardening at Elephant and Castle. Photograph: Giles FraserBut not all gardening is premised on some walled-off defence of private property. At the edge of my parish, the guerrilla gardener Richard Reynolds has magically transformed the solid impacted soil beside unloved municipal byways into glorious little oases of lavender and sunflowers. In an echo of the great Gerard Winstanley, Reynolds doesn’t seek permission from authority – in his case the hostile bureaucracy of Southwark council – he just gets out there with his trowel and plants the roundabouts in an act of resistance to the brutal inhumanity of the concrete jungle.My efforts have not been so daring or public-spirited. I sit back and look at cleared soil and imagine a future of hollyhocks and foxgloves. The Greeks called it eudaimonia, that sweetspot of intersection between happiness and virtue. We call it the good life. Children from the parish’s music summer school surge into the vicarage garden for a lunchtime picnic. From here, I can hear the cries of cricket fans at the Oval. And, on a still night, the sound of Big Ben. Sometime in the future the bindweed will have the place back. Eventually, the weeds will inherit the earth. But for now, I have cleared some space to live in. Think in. And I am grateful.@giles_fraser