Anyone trained in classical French cooking will be familiar with the five “mother sauces” – the basic sauce recipes from which nearly all of the panoply of sauces used in French cuisine derive. Once you learn how to make a mother sauce, you can rapidly learn how to make its derivatives – so, for example, a Béarnaise sauce is, practically speaking, a Hollandaise sauce with added shallots, tarragon, chervil and pepper. Love cocktails? Here are five bottles your liquor cabinet can't do without Similarly, the dizzying variety of cocktail recipes a professional bartender is expected to memorise can, with the exception of a few sui generis oddities, be boiled down to a number of cocktail families – the julep, the daisy, the sour, the flip, the sling, the fizz, etc. Thus the daiquiri is a sour made with white rum and lime juice, while the margarita is basically a daisy made with tequila (and hold the soda water). Master one of these basic cocktail concepts and you’ll be able to shake up the whole family that derives from it – or even invent your own original drink based on it.If you’re looking to get a little creative in the bar, the smash is one of the best places to start – because since its inception the smash has been defined by a somewhat anarchic spirit. Jerry Thomas’s 1862 Bar-Tender’s Manual defines the smash simply as “a julep on a small plan”, which is succinct enough, but doesn’t quite convey the way in which the smash functioned as “an icon of dissipation”, as cocktail historian David Wondrich puts it in his book, Imbibe!While juleps were designed to be slowly sipped by gentlemen on sweltering days, the smaller smash was made to be quickly dispatched – which made it terrifically popular with the young rakes of the mid-19th century. If you want to party like it’s 1860 and you’re the dissolute scion of a family of means, the original recipe remains hard to beat.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The smash was made to be quickly dispatched. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoMake it at home: Brandy smash (adapted from Jerry Thomas’s Bar-Tender’s Manual, via David Wondrich)60ml brandy (preferably VSOP cognac)7.5ml simple syrup2 sprigs fresh mintBuild ingredients in cocktail shaker. Add ice and shake thoroughly to smash up the mint and chill the drink. Double strain into a tumbler or other suitable glass, and top with fresh cracked or crushed ice. Garnish with a fresh sprig of mint and, as Thomas puts it, “Lay two small pieces of orange on top, and ornament with berries in season.” This same recipe can be made with whiskey or genever in place of the brandy.From amari mania to a vodka revival: what we’ll be drinking in 2017 The “berries in season” of Thomas’s recipe would soon become “a little fruit in season” in Harry Johnson’s 1882 New and Improved Bartender’s Manual – a small but important change that would portend the mutations that would later come to define the smash. While Thomas only offered recipes for brandy, whiskey and gin (ie genever) smashes in his book, and Johnson added only a Medford rum smash (as well as distinguishing, inexplicably, between near-identical “fancy” and “old style” whiskey smashes), by the time the 1930 Savoy Cocktail Book appeared, the smash would be defined by its flexibility. The Savoy Cocktail Book contains only one recipe for a smash, and it calls for “either Bacardi rum, brandy, gin, Irish whiskey, or scotch whisky as fancy dictates”.Much later, fancy would dictate a more radical change of direction for the smash. Around the turn of the millennium, Dale DeGroff – godfather of the modern craft cocktail movement – started muddling fresh lemons into his whiskey smashes at a New York City bar called Blackbird. The addition of citrus pulled the smash away from the julep family and established it as a julep-sour hybrid.A few years later, in 2008, Jörg Meyer of Hamburg bar Le Lion created a drink originally dubbed “gin pesto” but which became better known as the gin basil smash. This cocktail untethered the smash from the julep by calling for basil in place of the mint. The resulting drink is not only utterly delicious and, well, smashable – it’s also relatively easy to make, calling for only four common ingredients available in most parts of the world. It cemented its status as a modern classic when it won the best new cocktail award at the 2008 Tales of the Cocktail Spirited Awards (the cocktail world’s version of the Oscars).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Charmingly loosey-goosey: the gin basil smash is super flexible and just as easy to concoct. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoMake it at home: Gin basil smash60ml gin15ml simple syrup10 large basil leavesHalf of a ripe lemonChop lemon half into chunky wedges. Muddle lemon and basil leaves in the bottom of a shaker tin. Add gin and simple syrup, then top with ice. Shake thoroughly to smash up the lemon and basil and chill the drink. Taste for sweet/sour balance and adjust with a squeeze of lemon juice or dash of simple syrup if necessary. Double-strain into an old-fashioned glass or tumbler, then top with ice. Garnish with a sprig of basil, lightly slapped to release its aromas.One of the reasons Meyer’s gin basil smash found itself welcomed around the world is the flexibility of its template. Unlike most modern cocktail recipes – which deploy hyper-specific measurements and often call for branded products by name – the gin basil smash’s recipe remains charmingly loosey-goosey. For instance: what kind of gin should you use? Meyer originally indicated a lighter, more floral “new world” style of gin such as Hendrick’s or G’Vine Nouaison, but this recipe works perfectly well with a more traditional, juniper-forward gin such as Beefeater or Tanqueray.How large is the lemon in question? It depends on the lemons you have access to – the only guideline is to taste the completed cocktail for balance and adjust if your lemons are too big, too small, or too acidic.What kind of basil should you use? Most bartenders use common sweet basil – the kind employed in Italian cooking – but you’ll get perfectly good results with other cultivars of basil, including the purple “dark opal” cultivar.Cocktail of the week: poppy seed sour – recipe What kind of ice should you top the drink with? I prefer finely crushed or cracked ice, but plain old cube ice is also fine. Pretty much the only element of the recipe that isn’t flexible is the simple syrup.Invent your ownIn the wake of DeGroff’s whiskey smash and Meyer’s gin basil smash, something like a global consensus of what constitutes a smash has formed: a base spirit of some kind, paired with a sweetener, usually a herb of some kind, and usually some kind of citrus or other acidic juice component.Within that template there’s loads of room to experiment – and the world’s bartenders have been very busy experimenting. San Francisco bartender Erik Adkins of Heaven’s Dog shakes up añejo tequila, lemon, fresh sage and honey syrup to make a tequila and sage smash. Liam Davy of London steak restaurant chain Hawksmoor smashes lemon and pineapple together with Hungarian dessert wine tokaji aszú and apricot liqueur for his indulgent yet low-alcohol tokaji smash. New York bartender Damon Boelte of Grand Army Bar mashes strawberry, cucumber and lime with gin and balsamic vinegar in his strawberry-balsamic smash.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   You don’t have to be a professional bartender to come up with your own tasty twist on the smash. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoYou don’t have to be a professional bartender or vigorously workshop your ideas to come up with your own tasty twist on the smash format. Recently I found myself in the home of friends who were thirsty for cocktails, but whose liquor cabinet didn’t contain the requisites for most classics. They did have gin, though, and fresh lemons, and punnets of strawberries and blueberries in the fridge. The strawberry-blueberry smash I shook up that night – essentially Jörg Meyer’s gin basil smash recipe with muddled strawberries and blueberries in place of the basil – was an effortless hit with my hosts.There’s no reason that your own combinations of fruit, vegetables or herbs in season with liquor and sweetener can’t be similar successes. Just follow the template below:60ml of your choice of spiritfresh muddled fruit (including something with acidity, like lemon or lime) and/or herbs15ml of sweetenerThere are a few caveats to bear in mind before diving into the world of smashes, though. The base spirit you choose to work with will largely determine what kinds of fruit, vegetables or herb you can smash up. Choose an easygoing spirit like a classic London dry gin – famous for the promiscuous ease with which it blends with other flavours – and the possibilities are practically endless. Choose something a little spikier or more distinctive – such as smokey mezcal, caraway-flavoured aquavit, or funky Batavia arrack – and your possibilities will be narrowed. An idea of what kinds of flavours work with which spirits is an asset – for example, bourbon, grapefruit and honey work well together in the classic brown derby cocktail, so it’s not hard to imagine a smash based on similar flavours would also work well. (A little common sense helps, too – perhaps your smash made with muddled durian, coriander, lime, and baijiu will not quite come together as you hoped.)Five thoroughly impressive cocktails you can easily make at home You’ll also need to think about the sweetness of your ingredients and adjust your sweetening component to match. For example, fortified wines such as sherry or madeira make an excellent substitute for the spirits in this template if you’d like something with less booze in it – but bear in mind you may have to dial back the sweetener or the citrus component depending on the sweetness and acidity of the chosen fortified wine. If you’d like to use a liqueur in place of the simple syrup to add extra flavour complexity, knock yourself out – just bear in mind that most liqueurs are less sweet than simple syrup, so either add more liqueur or bolster the liqueur’s sweetness with a dash or two of simple syrup.The easiest way to solve these problems is to taste your smash before serving it to guests, and to adjust the sweet/sour balance if you think it’s a little out of line. You can also modify your ice to suit the drink – crushed ice dilutes a drink more quickly than cubed, so it works well for sweeter smashes.Aside from these caveats, though, there really aren’t many limits to what you can do with the smash format. A spicy smash made with muddled jalapeño, cucumber, lime, coriander, agave nectar and blanco tequila? Sure, why not? A pisco smash with passionfruit, lime, honeyr and mint? Absolutely. A peach, bourbon, maple syrup and mint smash? Delicious. The smash’s unfussy, easygoing nature makes it the perfect springboard for cocktail experimentation – so bust out your shaker and start experimenting.