In a recent attack on Hillary Clinton, the Republican candidate Donald Trump reached into the Yiddish dictionary, saying she’d been “schlonged” by Barack Obama in the 2008 primaries. More often, though, opponents, writers and pundits have looked to Shakespeare for words to describe her.People think “she’s a tough little termagant in a pantsuit”, according to one columnist, drawing on a word for an overbearing woman that has Shakespearean roots. “The virago of Pennsylvania Avenue,” wrote another in the 1990s, an insult Sir Toby uses in Twelfth Night.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘A tough little termagant in a pantsuit’ … making a visit to Australia as US secretary of state in 2010. Photograph: AFP/Getty ImagesThroughout her four decades in public life, Hillary has been described in ways, and held to standards, that differ hugely from those applied to her male counterparts. Her hairstyles and pantsuits have been parsed, critiqued and derided. Her warmth and likeability are regularly questioned. Now, as the leading candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination, and just weeks from the first primaries, she faces a bigger question still: how ready is America – and its vocabulary – for a female president?Hillary has deliberately avoided discussing the sexism she has faced over the years. In the 2008 campaign, she refused even to define herself as a female candidate. This time, she has been more willing to highlight the possibility of becoming the first woman president, a shift that has heightened the attention given to specific words. Last March, a group calling itself the HRC Super Volunteers emailed a New York Times reporter to protest against the use of “coded” sexist terms, including calculating, disingenuous and ambitious. Twitter users, naturally, suggested some others. One favourite was harridan, meaning a bossy or belligerent old woman. It’s considered a synonym for shrew.Of course, Hillary has plenty of experience on the frontlines of these gender wars, dating back to her school years in Park Ridge, near Chicago. She got an early lesson in feminism when she ran for president of her school’s student government, competing against several boys. “We thought, ‘What’s she doing? She should be running for secretary,’” one of them said later. She lost and was asked to organise school dances and pep rallies instead.In the mid-1960s, just as women were beginning to break away from traditional roles, young Hillary Rodham chose the all-female Wellesley College, just outside Boston. She led its student government and set her sights on law school. Women lawyers were rare in the US in 1969; in some cases, they weren’t allowed to exceed 10% of the class. In a 1996 interview, Hillary recalled being harassed by men when she took the law school admission test. “What do you think you’re doing?” they chided. “You’ve got no right to do this. Why don’t you go home and get married?” Despite this, she did well enough to be accepted to both Harvard and Yale. A friend introduced her to a bow-tied Harvard professor, saying she was trying to decide between his Ivy League university and its closest competitor. The professor looked down at her. “First of all,” he said, “we have no nearest competitor. And secondly, we don’t need any more women.” She went to Yale.In her second year there, she met a bushy-haired and brash Bill Clinton, just back from studying at Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar. They began dating and married in 1975, two years after graduating. Hillary made the then-daring decision to keep her last name, remaining Hillary Rodham. That move heralded the beginning of the Hillary vocabulary. When 32-year-old Bill was elected governor of Arkansas in 1978, making him the youngest US governor in 40 years, his wife’s name got almost as much attention as his youth, with one national publication noting that he was married to “an ardent feminist”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bill Clinton and Hillary Rodham in the 1970s. Photograph: Sipa Press/Rex/ShutterstockJust two years later, Bill was defeated. The reasons cited? Battles over car taxes, Cuban immigrants – and his wife’s last name. In 1982, when he ran again for governor, Hillary was a changed woman. She gave up her oversized eyeglasses for contact lenses, dyed and styled her hair, and became Mrs Bill Clinton. He won.The words really started flying during Bill’s 1992 presidential campaign. As a corporate attorney in Little Rock, Arkansas, Hillary was used to speaking her mind and came across more like a candidate than a candidate’s wife. Writers couldn’t say enough about her hair, and Republican opponents hated her style.She was dubbed “Lady Macbeth in a headband”, as well as a “radical feminist”. When the conservative radio commentator Rush Limbaugh began to popularise the word “feminazi”, Hillary more or less became its definition. Over the years, she was also called a harpy, a shrew, and a scold. The most creative was succubus, meaning a female demon who, according to legend, has sex with sleeping men. Except for the latter (thank you, incubus), there are very few equivalent (and printable) words for men perceived as overbearing or ill-tempered.Until Trump came along, Hillary had cornered the market on hair reviews. Shortly after she became a senator, a Washington columnist deemed her “rough-and-ready” hairstyle more appropriate for a soccer mom, adding: “The dry-and-go bangs hang limply down her forehead like rain-battered weeds.”The 2008 presidential campaign marked the first time a woman truly had a chance of taking the top job. Beginning with the first caucuses in Iowa, Democrats fretted that Hillary’s personality wasn’t warm enough, and she ended up making a last-minute “likability” tour around the state. It didn’t help. Hillary came third.At a debate in New Hampshire shortly after, a moderator asked why voters liked Barack Obama more. Jokingly, she responded: “That hurts my feelings.” Obama was very likable, she admitted, but added: “I don’t think I’m that bad.” She would roar back to win the New Hampshire primary, but ultimately lose the nomination. Obama was not just more charismatic, but more tactical.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I hear my hair looks great’ … Obama speechwriter Jon Favreau’s inappropriate moment with a Hillary cutout.As president-elect, Obama admired her and appointed her secretary of state. Just a couple of days later, photos appeared on Facebook of Obama’s top speechwriter, Jon Favreau, dancing with a cardboard cutout of Hillary and “fondling” her cardboard chest. It was embarrassing, wholly inappropriate and, to many, outrageously sexist. According to one report, as Favreau debated how to apologise, he noticed he had a message from Hillary on his phone. “I haven’t seen the picture yet,” she said, “but I hear my hair looks great.”Hillary: A Biography of Hillary Rodham Clinton by Karen Blumenthal, is published in the UK by Bloomsbury. Buy it at bookshop.theguardian.com. Published in the US as Hillary Rodham Clinton: A Woman Living History by Feiwei and Friends