On the night she died, my mom drove to a motel to buy cocaine with two men: Peter Gilbert and Gerald Mastracchio. Once inside, Gilbert watched television while Mastracchio spread the cocaine on a table and demanded sex from my mother. She complied. Years later, Gilbert would testify that Mastracchio emerged from the bathroom with a towel, threw it around my mom’s neck and yanked. Mastracchio grunted to Gilbert for help as her face turned purple. “Come on you rat,” Mastracchio wheezed. “Give me the death rattle.” [He suspected that she was a police informant.]This happened at the Sunset View Motel in Attleboro, Massachusetts, just minutes from the Rhode Island border. It was 18 October 1984. My mother was 30. Her name was Joan Carroll. I had just turned four years old.****At the Sportsman’s Inn, rooms rented for $40 a week. The ground floor was a strip club with a 24-hour Italian buffet. This is where Kevin Carroll, my father, died, on 28 December 1998. That morning, the proprietor of the Sportsman’s Inn tried to open the door to my father’s room. He couldn’t. My father’s dead body was blocking it. He was 48 years old. I was 18.Later, the funeral director gave me his possessions in a plastic bag: a Montblanc pen, an expired identification card from his job at the Providence Journal, roughly $200 in cash and change, and a pair of reading glasses.Who were these people, my parents, and how did they come to this place?****During the day, Mom unfurls long strips of film to dry on a string over the bathtub and sometimes she lets me stand in the tiny closet next to the bathroom where she flips on a red lightbulb and warns me not to touch any of the chemicals. We watch the paper go from white to grey and then shapes begin to form as she swirls the paper around with a pair of tongs. Images of Ali [a boxer dog] and Dad appear like magic.Most of the time my mom and I are a secret team, keeping secrets from my dad. She tells me we’re going to take the city bus because her car is getting fixed and this sounds like a great adventure. We take the bus to her friend’s house in Providence and she leaves me there in the living room, where I watch television until the room begins to darken. I sit on the floor pulling at long strands of orange carpet, wondering what is up the stairs. There are no stairs at our house.When she comes back we get on the bus again. Mom says, “Isn’t this fun?” and I nod, because it is kind of fun, the way the bus lurches and wheezes around the city. “If you want to do this again you can’t tell dad where we were. If you tell dad I’ll get in big trouble and we won’t be able to ride the bus again. Do you understand?” She kisses the top of my head.Later, mom drives me in Grandma’s car to a small house with long steps leading up to the front door from the street. She takes the keys from the ignition and tells me to wait in the car. She leans over and pats the space beneath the dashboard, telling me to get down there and stay until she comes back. “I’ll lock the doors,” she says.After a few seconds, I peek out the car window and watch her go up the stairs to the house. She wears a black leather jacket, tight at the hips. She walks up, up all those stairs. And then she’s out of sight.*****I am four years old and we’re going to Grandma and Grandpa’s house. Mom has packed my stuff into a blue American Tourister suitcase. Her car smells like cigarettes but also something sweet. It’s my favourite smell. I snap the brass buckles on the suitcase open and closed.“I don’t want to go to Grandma’s house, again,” I say. Mom is silent in the front seat.When we get there, Mom takes my suitcase into the house. Grandma wipes the counter in the kitchen with a damp towel. I hug her around the knees and say: “I love you, Grandma, but I don’t want to stay over any more.”Grandma smiles like she doesn’t hear and kisses my cheek. She looks like my mom, but with white hair. The inside of her pocketbook smells like lipstick and sugarless gum. I like to sneak it open and leave her love notes and drawings. I steal tissues from the little package she keeps inside and look at myself in her compact mirror. I put on her sunglasses and pretend to be her, hands around the imaginary steering wheel of her big blue Dodge, purse strap hanging off my shoulder.Grandpa sits, where he always sits, in his reclining chair in the den. His dog, Spot, snores on his lap. Spot only gets up from the chair when Grandpa gets up. Spot’s name is funny because his fur is all black. No spots.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A portrait of Leah’s father, Kevin, taken by her mother. Photograph: Courtesy of Leah CarrollGrandpa tells a lot of jokes I don’t get and sings old-fashioned songs like, “Hey good lookin’/ what you got cookin’?” Sometimes we watch the Three Stooges and Grandpa laughs and laughs. He tells me that the Stooges were Jewish, just like us.I start crying so Grandpa will notice me. I tell him: “Mom says we have to stay over again.”Grandpa doesn’t look away from the TV screen. “Knock, knock,” he says.I sniff wetly and keep my head buried in my knees. “Who’s there?”“Boo.”“Boo who?” I ask.“Whaddya cryin’ for?” He looks at me, waiting for my laugh. I wipe my face on the crocheted afghan and Grandpa adjusts the TV antenna with his foot.Mom kisses Grandpa on the forehead and says: “Leah, if you don’t stop crying, you won’t get your present.”I run after her into the kitchen where a big cardboard box waits for me. On the front is a picture of a vacuum, a broom, and a mop. Grandma gets scissors from a drawer and says: “Here, Lee-lee, I’ll do it.”Together we pull out the miniature cleaning supplies. I stroke the ropey ends of the mop, imagining all the games I will play with these toys. I can be a mom, cleaning the house and yelling at the kids. I can be an orphan who has to clean the whole house before the orphanage lady comes back and beats me. I can be a princess, locked away by an evil witch and made to clean my dungeon. I barely notice as Mom kisses me and walks out the door. I hear her car rev up and out of the driveway as I push my broom around the orange-and-brown linoleum. Grandma ties a bandanna around my head so I can be just like a real maid.*****On the night my mom disappeared, 18 October 1984, she attended a Simchat Torah celebration with my grandmother at Temple Sinai, and then said she was going to meet a friend named Debbie. She promised to be back before 11, and she reversed her sweet-smelling Scirocco out of the driveway at 65 Midland Drive, turned down the cul-de-sac, and was gone.At 9.30 the next morning, she was still gone and my grandmother called the Cranston police. Officer Derrico drove to 65 Midland Drive and wrote the facts in his police report: We’d been living with my grandparents for the past month because my parents had separated. Last winter, my mother went to Edgehill for drug rehabilitation, but my grandmother was positive she’d since been behaving herself to the fullest.Her daughter Joan would not, according to my grandmother, stay out all night without calling. She did not have any boyfriends. And she wouldn’t leave her baby daughter without contacting my grandmother to tell her where she was. My grandmother could give a description of her car: a turquoise Volkswagen Scirocco, but she could not recall the plates. They were Rhode Island plates. Maybe they were KC-? Or maybe they were PB-? She tried, and had been trying, unsuccessfully, to contact my father.The officer patrolled the streets of Cranston from Knightsville to Meshanticut but was unable to locate any vehicle matching my grandmother’s description. He took down my mom’s description: Joan B Carroll... DOB 4-6-54... 5ft 1in tall... weight 100lbs… short brown hair… scar over one eye… Last seen wearing maroon print dress and tan heels.The next day my grandmother called back. Officer Palmer reported to her house. She’d made contact with Joan’s estranged husband, my dad, Kevin Carroll. The vehicle was registered in his name with RI plates KC-38.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A shot that Carroll’s mother took of herself, her camera set to self-timer, while pregnant with Leah, August 1980. In the picture she’s 26 years old. She would only live another four years. Photograph: Courtesy of Leah CarrollA 1975 Volkswagen Scirocco, colour blue. The officer put out a broadcast to all cars in regard to the plate. Officer Davies reported that he knew the car, he knew the female – he had, in fact, stopped this female in her car several nights before. She was known to frequent the Atwood Avenue area, in particular Sonny Russo’s restaurant at Atwood and Fortini Street. An officer was dispatched to the location but neither the vehicle nor the female could be located.There was no more information to report at that time except this: “Attention: Investigators… Mrs Goldman is quite concerned as to possibly what might have happened and fears the worse [sic] about her daughter.”*****My father rarely talked about my mom. I know now they were separated when she died, that they likely would have gotten a divorce. But there was something wistful in the way he talked about her on the rare occasions when it happened. My mom was smart, he told me. My mom was intellectually curious. One of their first dates had been to see A Clockwork Orange, and she loved it. She wasn’t put off by the violence at all. In fact, she was something of a true-crime junkie: her favourite book was Mailer’s The Executioner’s Song. She wasn’t big on music, though. That was a passion they didn’t share. She fell asleep curled up in her seat when he took her to see Elvis Costello at the Orpheum theatre in Boston.Mostly when my dad talked about my mom it was to remind me of my Jewish heritage. My dad converted to Judaism to marry my mom and he took it pretty seriously for a while, though after she died he never observed any kind of religious practice. He wasn’t entirely sure he believed in God, and he’d been a good Irish Catholic growing up, going to mass at St Michael’s in Providence. But he wanted me to understand the cultural importance of being Jewish, and I can only attribute this to how much it meant to my mom.I have his war record. At 17, he was only 5ft 10in and barely 160lbs, not yet the solid man he’d become, but it was 1968 and they took him gladly. Initially he signed up for airborne duty but changed his mind. As part of the 19th combat engineer battalion he spent most of his time as a company clerk and his last two months as a demolition specialist, clearing the roads of mines every morning. A friend’s father, an army officer, translated the jargon of the records for me. He ended his note of explanation by saying: “I don’t know the rest of the story, Leah, but for those three years of his life, your dad’s service records paint him as an exemplary young man.”I have his autopsy report: “At autopsy, he had an enlarged greasy liver with steatohepatitis, consistent with acute and chronic ethanol use, as well as an enlarged heart with microscopic findings consistent with hypertensive cardiovascular disease. An additional significant contributing condition to his death included chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder.”I have various notes he wrote me throughout the years. One is from when I was a teenager and is typed out. I can no longer remember the context, but he writes: “I Leah’s father do promise to be more fatherly and help Leah through this difficult period she is experiencing. I further give Leah free notice to ask me about any subject without any fear of anger on my part. Should I break this contract at any time, I encourage Leah to bring it out and show it to me and put me in my place. This I do promise as Leah’s dad, because I love her and because she is the light of my life.”I have the note he wrote me on the night before he died, also typed and printed. “Please don’t be mad,” it begins. “Alcoholism and depression have ruined my life.”But still it is almost as hard to explain him as it is to explain my mom, whom I never really knew. I feel like I’ll never get it right. How you couldn’t trust him, not for a minute, but you always did. How when he turned his attention to you it was like everything was lit up, and when he decided he was done everything went ice-cold. The way that he presented himself as invincible: smarter, faster, funnier, so that when he was vulnerable it was somehow extra pitiful. The way he scrunched up his chin and poked it with his index finger when he was thinking and didn’t realise anyone was looking.There were these specifics: he took road trips to civil war battlefields. He was a heavy hitter on the Journal’s softball team. He said the best band he ever saw live was Television. He took me to the Holocaust Museum and to my first sushi restaurant, and sometimes we would drive to New York and take photos for the whole day and then drive back the three hours to Rhode Island. He was Irish-American and hated, in roughly descending order: Margaret Thatcher, Ronald Reagan and Morrissey. He blasted solo Lindsey Buckingham and Parliament-Funkadelic from his JBL speakers so loud that our little apartment shook.*****I’m eight years old when Dad tells me we have to have a Serious Talk. He sits on the floor of my bedroom and before he has a chance to say anything, I ask him: “Are you going to tell me my mom was murdered?” I have no idea where the knowledge came from. It was just there. For years I’ve been telling people my mom died in a car accident, just like dad told me at Aunt Rita’s [his sister]. But deep inside, I’ve always known the truth. It’s just been in there, waiting, and finally saying it out loud feels good.But Dad tells me that her murder is something we have to keep a secret. “It’s personal,” he tells me. “It’s something we don’t talk about outside of the family, OK?”I keep a picture of Mom in my dresser, an 8x10 she’d developed herself, and I sometimes take it out of the drawer and study it. I think about how she will never look any different to me than she does in this photo. I think about it for a long time and stare at the picture, and when I try to picture my mom in my head, it’s only the face and pose from the photograph that I see. I’m forgetting the real her.The word murder feels like a bad word, like something to be ashamed of. I don’t want anybody to think bad things about my mom and so I continue telling people she died in a car accident. After our Serious Talk, Dad and I never talk about the way she died again.This is an edited extract from Down City: A Daughter’s Story of Love, Memory, and Murder by Leah Carroll, published by Grand CentralLeah Carroll Q&A: I’m lucky because I dodged a genetic bullet of addiction      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Leah Carroll: ‘After our serious talk, dad and I never talk about the way mom died again.’ Photograph: Courtesy of Leah CarrollLeah Carroll is 36 and lives in Brooklyn with her husband. She works for the women’s lifestyle website Refinery29 and has written for Atlantic magazine, the New York Times and Billboard. Down City is her first book and the title refers to a district of Providence, Rhode Island, where she grew up. She is currently working on a novel.When did you start thinking about a book?I went to graduate school to study writing and I always knew that I was going to write about my parents. When I was 21 I found an article on the internet about my mother’s death and that was the beginning of years of research. I didn’t actually sit down and start writing the book until I was 31 and I’m really glad I waited until then. My mom died when she was 30 and it was only when I got to a similar age that I had the ability to understand her as another human being .Was it difficult to write?It was, in that for a long time I resisted writing a memoir. I thought I was doing a sort of sociological study of their lives and then after a while I realised that I really was the bridge between the two of them, in the sense of my reclaiming them and knowing them.How did your family react?They have been wonderful. Supportive beyond any expectation. In a way I think it’s a relief for them – there had been so much silence around my mom. We didn’t talk about the way she died because we didn’t want people to think she had been a bad person. To finally put it all out there and make it ours meant a lot. I am also still very close to my father’s second wife, Ann Marie, and my stepbrother and sister.It’s striking, in the book, that all your extended family seem to be good people doing their best for you.Having the gift of being an adult with responsibilities when I wrote the book made me able to realise that every single person in my life had tried. In that sense I was very lucky. There have been internet comments – “She clearly hasn’t processed this, she’s not angry enough” – but the people in my life were always trying to love me, trying to do the best they could.How do you feel about your parents now?The main feeling I have for my mom is, I just wish that she had gotten to live her life. I feel very sad that that was taken from her and that there was no justice in the way she was killed, in the way the case was prosecuted [her body was found five months after her death, when one of her murderers showed police where her remains were as part of a deal to get a reduced sentence]. My dad I knew better, for longer, and he was like the most charming, generous person. Like my mom he was fun. He had suffered from bipolar disorder and would often go through periods of depression but he was a joyful person and he really loved me.There are lovely descriptions of outings with your father… taking you to get your nose pierced, for example.When I was 14!Also taking you to see Pulp Fiction the night before you had an early morning exam.The level of intellectual curiosity that my father inspired in me… about books and film. I think back on that Pulp Fiction night and that was like a life-changing night for me. Seeing that movie… it was just so different from anything I’d ever seen. I then had to take this algebra test, which was fine but, I also discovered this really big world out there. He wanted me to know about it.How has it all affected you?Well I am exceptionally lucky because I dodged a genetic bullet of addiction. For whatever reason I don’t have that gene. A lot of my parents’ problems came from this thing they could not overcome. I have empathy. I know life is hard and that it’s hard for everybody and I think maybe I tend to be a little bit more aware of that. Also I have always wanted to make my parents proud and to accomplish things in my life, in large part, because I knew that that is what they would have wanted for me.Interview by Ursula Kenny