As soon as I read Mike Stoner’s self-published novel, Jalan Jalan, I had a feeling that it ought to be able to find a commercial publisher. The book was the last winner of the Guardian’s self-published book of the month, which picked seven books from open submissions between June and December 2014 and reviewed them on the site. I followed the series from the start, but Jalan Jalan was the first entry to really catch my attention. The tale follows a heartbroken young Brit through Indonesia, where he finds himself embroiled in a murky world at the bottom of the expat barrel after accepting a teaching job at a dodgy language school after a five-minute telephone interview.Josh Lacey called it an “involving tale of self-transformation, and a welcome blast of heat and spice”. It’s all that and more; a curious blend of Alex Garland and Nick Hornby with a ghost thrown in for good measure. It has some memorable drug- and alcohol-fuelled set pieces, lots of very funny dialogue, and lashings of tropical atmosphere. But it also has a more complex, moving and rather magical core. The protagonist – whose name is not revealed until the final chapter – is haunted by memories of his dead girlfriend, and as the book progresses it becomes clear that there is more going on here than mere misadventure in a foreign land.I could see why Jalan Jalan might have failed to find a UK publisher. It wasn’t a question of quality, but as far as the UK publishing industry is concerned Indonesia is a distant dot on a far horizon, rather than the world’s fourth most populous nation and south-east Asia’s biggest economy. A well-written literary novel set in Indonesia is the sort of thing that a hard-nosed UK agent might look at twice, but not a third time.But the publishing world does not end on the shores of Britain. In south-east Asia the expat novel is a staple of airport bookshops, with stories of them heading off the rails in Jakarta or Bangkok looming large on the lists of many south-east Asian publishing houses. I found myself strangely troubled by the notion that the author of Jalan Jalan – which was a cut a way above the usual standards of expat lit – might not be aware of this fact.It turned out that Stoner, who based the book on his experiences teaching in Indonesia in the early years of this century, had indeed done the dispiriting rounds of agents and publishers in the UK before deciding to publish himself. But he had never thought of trying further afield. I suggested a few places that might be worth approaching – Monsoon Books, Marshall Cavendish, EDM, and the other Singaporean publishers for a start – and off he went to try his luck.By now I had developed a determination to see Jalan Jalan make it to print myself, so I also emailed Cathy Layne, my own editor at Tuttle, and told her about the book. Tuttle is one of the biggest names in south-east Asian publishing, with bases in the USA and Singapore, and their books are distributed worldwide. They also happen to have their own retail arm which runs Periplus, the main English-language bookstore chain in Indonesia, with outlets in glitzy shopping malls and airport terminals.There’s always a horrible moment of doubt after you’ve recommend a book, especially an unpublished one, to a publishing professional. What if Cathy didn’t like it? What if there was something horribly wrong with my judgment? But a month later she told me she’d thoroughly enjoyed the book and Tuttle was going to publish it.“It’s a classic tale of self-discovery in a foreign land – an ever-popular genre,” Cathy explained. “The story has elements that make it comparable to Alex Garland’s phenomenally successful The Beach – and what editor wouldn’t want to find the next Beach? Crucially, Stoner’s writing was great – for a first novel it was incredibly well crafted and structured. The only real polishing we needed to do before publication was to trim down a few overly long descriptions.”And it wasn’t just Cathy who liked it. Karl Taro Greenfeld, author of Standard Deviations, one of the best books in the expat lit genre, gave high praise and some valuable feedback when Stoner and Tuttle approached him for a blurb. Veteran Jakarta-based writer Terry Collins also praised its “rare integrity and intensity”.The new version came out in Asia and the US in January, and was released in the UK on 26 February, completing an unlikely journey that still astonishes Stoner.“I had sent the manuscript to about 30 agents and publishers in the UK before deciding to self-publish,” he says. “I had some positive rejections mixed in with the blunt ‘no thanks’ ones. I came very close to one agent taking it on. She really liked it but the bosses said they thought it was a risky first novel.“I never considered that an Asian publisher would be interested. The idea of all those airport shops and beach-read bookshops never really entered my head. I think I got so caught up in the idea of self-publishing that that was all I focused on.”Stoner says he thoroughly enjoyed the self-publishing experience, though it didn’t exactly bring him fame and fortune.“Before winning the self-published book of the month I could put a name to every sale, pretty much, and even afterwards I think I only made about eight sales.”But of course, without self-publishing, the book in its new form would not now be available worldwide, sitting proudly on the front tables of every airport bookshop in Indonesia.“I’d recommend self-publishing to anyone who writes and gets dejected about being rejected, because you never know where it might lead. If I hadn’t made the effort I’d never have won the Guardian award – a very happy moment – and I’d never have heard from you and taken your great advice. I’ve discovered the whole writing and getting published thing is full of ups and downs.”