The proposals to expand the UK's airports have prompted plenty of debate around efficiency, expense, and timescale but one thing is indisputable: they effect thousands of homes.Heathrow airport's plan for a third runway – set out in three options, each permitting 260,000 more flights annually and involving the loss of 850 to 2,700 homes – is just one submission to the government-appointed Airports Commission, headed by former Financial Services Authority chairman Howard Davies. Other options include the expansion of Stansted and Gatwick airports, and building the new so-called Boris Island airport at Shivering Sands in the Thames Estuary. Whatever the pros and cons of each, the uncertainty created by possible development is hitting property values and sale prospects."If you were thinking of buying within or near one of the possible London airport proposals, you'd step back and think again," says James Del Mar of estate agency Knight Frank, who heads the firm's team advising on compensation for homes along the route of the HS2 high-speed train service from London to Birmingham. "An airport proposal is probably far more damaging than a railway line. The latter is narrow, and affects a relatively small number of homes along an extended route. But an airport expansion could effect thousands of homes in a very small area," he says.The problem for owners near possible expansion sites is the long wait for a decision. By Christmas the Airports Commission will suggest ways of improving existing capacity, but its deadline for options for any new runway or airport is mid-2015. Even then the government of the day is not obliged to consider its findings, or definitively rule in or out any proposal. "Until the decision, all homes which are vulnerable are effectively blighted," says Del Mar.Owners cannot claim compensation from a public body, through the serving of a Statutory Blight Notice, until a proposal is safeguarded – the official description of a major development proposal once it has secured planning consent. That is likely to be many years away, even if the government makes a firm decision in 2015.Between 2005 and 2010 Heathrow's then-owner, BAA, bought hundreds of homes around the airport under its voluntary Property Market Support Bond scheme. It purchased homes at values which were index-linked from a 2002 base – that year was chosen as it marked the start of the blight period caused by speculation about airport expansion. The scheme was scrapped in 2010 when the new coalition government immediately ruled out Heathrow expansion, a commitment on which it has now reneged. BAA's successor company, Heathrow Airport Holdings, says there is no plan to reintroduce a bond scheme.That leaves homeowners near Heathrow – and their counterparts in Stansted, Gatwick and the Thames Estuary – in limbo for years to come, and the effect can be devastating. Jacky Clark-Basten lives above her hairdressing business in Sipson, a village in Hillingdon, which has suffered for the past decade from Heathrow expansion plans. Because she has a business address she was excluded from the bond compensation scheme, which saw 247 of the 548 properties in the village snapped up by BAA."We struggle on and some of the BAA properties are now rented out so there's a community of sorts. But our homes are blighted and the uncertainty and diminishing population risks ruining the local businesses," she says. "There aren't many individually owned homes left. A few try to sell and some get close to a market value, but others try and no one's interested. It's completely hit and miss. Now the latest Heathrow suggestion adds years more uncertainty and blight," she says.Sipson largely escapes the sound of Heathrow's average 1,300 landings and departures each day, unlike some of those directly under the flight path. However, they are not necessarily the worst hit by the prospect of extra flights. Simon Barnes, a London property consultant running a house-finding service for wealthy clients, says: "Some of the capital's most expensive houses are under the direct Heathrow flight path, most notably Kensington Palace Gardens. I've never heard anyone arguing about noise levels nor have prices ever been negatively impacted."But in other parts of the country where the housing market is weaker – such as near Luton airport, which is seeking to extend overnight flights – locals cite international examples to bolster their case that prices are damaged. In the US in 2007 Pennsylvania State University research showed prices fell by 10% to 12% because of noise. In 2009 research by academics in Amsterdam suggested values near airports fell by around €1,450 per decibel of noise from approaching or departing aircraft. In 2012 a study commissioned about airport expansion in Frankfurt produced results showing price falls of 14% for homes most severely affected by noise.The biggest nightmare, though, remains blight, and not just for those whose homes may one day be demolished. Those living close to, but not within, a development zone are hit too. "Under legislation those living immediately outside the development area but whose house values are damaged cannot begin any process for possible compensation until one year after the project has been completed" says Knight Frank's James Del Mar. In the meantime, they have noise, disruption and little chance of moving home.