Despite being a soft-spoken Lancastrian of mild-mannered appearance, the writer and producer William Smethurst, who has died aged 71, was known to his detractors in radio and television as “Butcher Bill”. But the ruthless skills combined with mischievous flair that he displayed as editor of The Archers for eight years from 1978 were widely credited with saving Radio 4’s flagging rural soap opera and making it the cult show it later became. Smethurst was the man who licensed writers to scandalise sleepy Ambridge and once persuaded Princess Margaret to make a guest appearance.He was less successful when Central TV lured him from BBC Pebble Mill in Birmingham to pull off the same trick with Crossroads, its Midlands motel saga, which had run out of steam. Smethurst ditched Tony Hatch’s theme tune, killed off characters (much as he had Dan and Doris Archer), and made the plots (and scenery) more credible and the cast much more glamorous, with the help of the motel swimming pool he installed. Some critics preferred its previous awfulness and the show folded in 1988.But Smethurst had already shown himself to be a highly adaptable operator with entrepreneurial drive. He had started his career in provincial journalism at the Reading Evening Post, but could also write original plays, novels, history, comedy, anything that sold. “Hack writing,” he occasionally admitted, readable and well researched, but middlebrow. His unstuffy How to Write for Television (1992) is in its seventh edition, and at the time of his death he was still collecting royalties from the 1990 TV series Jupiter Moon, a space station romp he devised about polytechnic students exploring the universe. Smethurst’s production company sold Jupiter Moon to cable TV, and although panned by critics it remained one of his proudest achievements. It gave acting breaks to Anna Chancellor and Lucy Benjamin, and still orbits around obscure TV channels in several countries.In his private life, Butcher Bill saw himself as a free-market Tory of romantic, rural inclination. An admirer of Jonathan Swift and PG Wodehouse, he was perceptive and mischievous. As a prolific student journalist at the new “plate glass” University of Lancaster in 1964, he named the campus newspaper Carolynne after his new girlfriend, later his wife. Both name and marriage endured, though Smethurst’s unabashed reliance on a 50p joke book for his punchlines was already well known. So was his fondness for journalistic licence: a traffic jam in the city was never caused by a truck, but by a “multi-concretic cheese-cutter”.Unlike most such magazines, however, Carolynne made a profit and boasted of being independent of both the university and the lefty student council. In a further act of defiance against the 60s zeitgeist, Smethurst founded the Belle Toute Club, a black-tie, all-male dining group which invited VIP speakers such as Ted Heath and Oswald Mosley.Son of Marjorie and William Smethurst, Bill was born in Bolton, Lancashire, where his father was an aircraft engineer for de Havilland. The family later moved to Dorset when his father joined Westland. Between Foster’s grammar school in Sherborne and university, he did a stage management course at the Bristol Old Vic. A graduate trainee on the Reading Post, he left to travel the world and worked briefly for ABC TV in Australia: that was his passport to a writing job on BBC1’s regional news programme Midlands Today and his first quirky radio short story, The Rise and Fall of the Perfect Souffle, broadcast on Radio 2 in 1972, the year he first wrote for The Archers.His eye for a good story that could be made into good drama led to rapid promotion. As an editor his special talent lay in hiring promising writers, including the novelist Susan Hill, his future Jupiter Moon colleague Helen Leadbeater and Mary Cutler, who is still at The Archers after 37 years, and giving them their head. Cutler explained after Bill’s death: “He told me The Archers was essentially a social comedy – like Jane Austen – a group of interesting characters in an English village. This meant that, though terrible things could, and do, happen to our characters, the good would end happily and the bad unhappily. He told me I could write anything I liked at all – shock the audience to the core in one scene – as long as the next scene was Tom Forrest listening to birdsong on Lakey Hill.”Among his legacy to Ambridge were the hotel manager Caroline Bone (later Pemberton, now Sterling), the Lower Loxley heir Nigel Pargetter and the development of the chaotic Grundy family, as well as Shula Archer’s Young Conservative membership. But the drama of soap operas lies as much in endless battles over scripts and characters as in the end product. Smethurst was no exception, and within weeks of leaving the programme found himself lampooned as a rascally estate agent called Mr Smethers.A running feud with Vanessa Whitburn, editor from 1991 to 2013, became public in 1996, with Whitburn accusing Smethurst of creating a “fluffy and frothy” vehicle for Tory propaganda, and Smethurst bemoaning her “badly written feminist tripe”. The spat coincided with his publication of The Archers: the True Story six days before her The Archers: The Official Inside Story.For the last third of his life Smethurst suffered from spondyloarthropathy, a painful inflammatory rheumatic disease that he refused to let dominate his life or dim his delight in work or in moving house. A diagnosis of terminal pancreatic cancer and the palliative drugs that accompanied it made the last year of his life the most comfortable for a long time. Typically, he used it to sell up in Dorset and relocate Carolynne to a cottage in the Warwickshire village where their only child, Henrietta, lived with her family.Carolynne, Henrietta and two grandchildren survive him.• William Smethurst, writer and editor, born 10 March 1945; died 22 July 2016