The Brit Awards 2017 7.30pm, ITVPrior to 2016, if you’d been told Leonard Cohen was in the running for international male solo artist at the Brits, you’d have possibly imagined someone was pulling your leg. And yet, here we are: both Cohen and David Bowie are up for posthumous awards – the latter, for British male solo artist and album of the year. Elsewhere, it’s business as usual, with Little Mix and Calvin Harris among the nominees, and Robbie Williams, Emeli Sandé and the 1975 performing. Ali CatterallIncredible Medicine: Dr Weston’s Casebook 9pm, BBC2New series in which surgeon Gabriel Weston meets people with unique bodies and discovers what their rare medical conditions can teach scientists. Virsaviya, who is seven, was born with her heart outside her ribcage. Her mother hopes that a move from Russia to the US can help her daughter get treatment. Jeannie is growing an extra skeleton, Harnaam has learned to celebrate her beard and Tom has a mysterious condition that means he can’t store fat. Hannah VerdierThe Royal House of Windsor 9pm, Channel 4Excellent history of Britain’s royal family, marking the centenary of the patriotically expedient decision by the Saxe-Coburg and Gotha dynasty to rebrand as Windsor. As this film demonstrates, the Windsors’ adaptability has been key to their survival as pretty much the only aspect of Britain in 2017 that might be recognisable to a visitor from 1917. Historians, relations and the personal archive of the Queen are all skilfully deployed. Andrew MuellerRoots 9pm, BBC4The penultimate episode of this impressively ambitious slavery epic and Kunta Kinte’s descendants are learning that increased autonomy is still a long way from true freedom. Kizzy’s son Young George has made himself indispensable to his master. But has he got too close to his oppressor? Meanwhile, Kizzy herself is forced into yet another huge sacrifice in a life full of them. Quite appropriately, this is often gruelling viewing. But it feels faithful to both the original story and the historical subject matter. Phil HarrisonThe Real Marigold Hotel 9pm, BBC1This series works on two fronts: you only need to point a camera at the sensory cornucopia that is India to prompt wonder, while the spectacle of mature celebs feeds the current fixation for marvelling at what the famous faces of 30 years ago look like today. Tonight, among the names enjoying a lease of life on the subcontinent are ex-Corrie star Amanda Barrie, celebrating her 81st birthday here, Lionel Blair (87), and 75-year-old Bill Oddie, who heads off on a trip to the jungle. David StubbsPerson of Interest 9pm, 5USAWhat began as a fairly unremarkable mish-mash of a case-of-the-week procedural and soothsaying sci-fi gubbins has, over time, settled comfortably into an enjoyable piece of serialised action hokum. As this 13-episode final season gets under way, Finch, Reese and Root are pursued by shady Samaritan agents, “The Machine” is snugly ensconced in a briefcase, and much punching, shooting and portentous expositioning occurs. Likable nonsense. Luke HollandThe Kettering Incident 10pm, Sky AtlanticThe strewth is out there: Elizabeth Debicki (AKA The Night Manager’s Jed) leads this strikingly shot Aussie drama that adds some alien-abduction strangeness to its murky tale of two teen abductions 15 years apart. Having unwillingly returned to her remote Tasmanian home town, closed-off doctor Anna (Debicki) finds herself treated with increasing hostility by the agitated locals. Worth catching up on ahead of tonight’s second double bill. Graeme VirtueFilm choiceLone Star (John Sayles, 1996) 11pm, TCMIn a dusty little Texas border town a skeleton is found, and Chris Cooper’s sheriff finds himself investigating a 40-year-old murder involving his own father (played in flashback by Matthew McConaughey). Sayles’s terrific drama is rich in characters and atmosphere, moving seamlessly between past and present, flowing around the theme of history as an exercise in pragmatism. Looming over all is Kris Kristofferson’s corrupt, granite-featured lawman. Paul HowlettLive sportChampions League Football: Sevilla v Leicester City Leicester look for a welcome distraction from their disastrous league form away in this first leg. 7pm, BT Sport 2ATP Tennis: Rio Open Coverage of day three from the Jockey Club Brasileiro. 7.45pm, Sky Sports 1Test Cricket: India v Australia Opening day of the first of four Tests between the sides. 3.50am, Sky Sports 2