Radio history majors on the ideas that have shaped us. This year’s big anniversary is the 500th of Luther’s dispute with the Pope that sparked the Reformation. In Free Thinking: Martin Luther (2 May, 10pm, Radio 3) Anne McElvoy referees a discussion about whether Luther was a reactionary or the inventor of the modern world. In The Essay: Luther’s Reformation Gang (Weekdays, 10.45pm, Radio 3) experts describe the reformers whose names (such as Thomas Müntzer and Philip Melanchthon) may not have lingered but whose ideas have.“They didn’t want the press to know. They didn’t want the people to know. They were creating a country,” says Joe Queenan, one of the voices Misha Glenny calls upon to build his absorbing story of The Invention of the USA (1 May, 8pm, Radio 4). As Queenan points out, the US was invented by wealthy men who were civilised but also slave-owning. It was formed by an alliance of independent states that only came together in the face of a common enemy (us) and regarded themselves as anything but Americans. A timely successor to Glenny’s previous profiles of Italy, France and Brazil.Rebecca Front is Justin Edwards, Mel Giedroyc and Dave Mounfield’s guest in comedy Rum Bunch (3 May, 6.30pm, Radio 4). Justin and Dave are honoured to have her join them in their end-of-the-pier tribute to Houdini. The joke is that Mel is less welcoming of Rebecca’s guest slot owing to some ancient skulduggery on Supermarket Sweep that the authorities mistakenly overlooked.The Rosenthals: Eskimo Day (29 April, 2.30pm, Radio 4) is Amy Rosenthal’s radio adaptation of the piece her late father Jack wrote for television in 1996 about the poignant experience of delivering her to her university interviews. The piece gets its name from the day when Eskimos are said to mark their passage to adulthood by wandering off into the snow. The TV film spawned a sequel, Cold Enough to Snow, which is also adapted next week and will be followed by Thin Ice, Amy’s own account of university.The podcast Note to Self is “the tech show about being human”. Human notions of privacy have changed. The producers provide a data scientist with a bunch of innocent selfies and find that, with a little metadata, Google Image Search and a smidge of common sense, he can come back with where and when it was taken, the name of the subject and even where they went to school.The podcast A History of Jazz began telling its story in February – 100 years after the recording of Livery Stable Blues by the Original Dixieland Jazz Band, the start of jazz as a legitimate branch of music. It is the project of Arik Devens, who plans to retrace the journey of jazz one record at a time, with those records being compiled into a playlist on Spotify. By my reckoning we get to A Love Supreme in 2065.