UK fire chiefs are warning parents of the potential dangers of children’s fancy dress costumes in the run-up to Halloween and Bonfire night.Strictly Come Dancing's Claudia Winkleman describes moment daughter's dress caught fire The Chief Fire Officers Association (CFOA) claimed there have been no improvements to safety legislation over the outfits – still classified as toys rather than clothing – despite the torrent of negative publicity triggered by the 2014 fire that seriously injured the daughter of the television presenter Claudia Winkleman.In September last year, the government promised a fire prevention strategy involving spot checks by trading standards officers as thousands more children’s outfits and accessories, some aimed at babies and toddlers, went on sale online and in supermarkets in time for Halloween.Winkleman gave a warning about fancy dress costumes after her eight-year-old daughter, Matilda, suffered serious burns when her supermarket-bought costume was ignited by a flame. Winkleman asked why the outfits were treated as toys rather than clothing when it came to safety tests and welcomed the government’s initiative. But the CFOA, which has been campaigning for legislation requiring fancy dress clothing to meet the same safety standards as children’s nightclothes, warned: “As yet no changes have been made to the legislation regarding the safety of these items despite previous publicity highlighting the potential dangers if these costumes are touched by a naked flame.” The safety body said it would be writing to the government to ask for improvements to the regulations. Lewis Ramsay, director of prevention and protection, said: “The CFOA appreciates the efforts some retailers have made by applying stricter measures to their costumes, but to ensure consistency and for the ease of the consumer, CFOA would like the government to act upon our recommendations.”The CFOA said fancy dress costumes have become a staple item in children’s toy boxes and urged supervising adults to be aware of the risks the outfits pose and to avoid using real candles – instead using LED candles with the correct kite mark. Parents should ensure children know how to “stop, drop and roll” in the event of their clothes catching fire, it added. A spokesperson for the Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy said it had ordered Newcastle city council’s trading standards to take the lead on investigating the issue last year, adding: “The government takes safety issues extremely seriously. This is why we commissioned trading standards to make sure that children’s fancy dress costumes comply with stringent safety requirements. In cases where costumes did not meet safety standards, enforcement action was taken. Parents should always check costumes for a CE mark, instructions and safety information.”A budget chain, Poundland, is promising shoppers “monster value on dress up” with a Halloween range of costumes, make-up, masks and hats, for children and adults, costing just £1 each. A spokeswoman said: “Poundland sells a range of Halloween costumes and takes the safety of its customers very seriously. We work closely with industry experts … to ensure rigorous testing is conducted and our garments meet safety standards.”Sales of children’s fancy dress have soared in recent years, due to cheap imports available online and in supermarkets, and children increasingly wanting to dress as their favourite characters from films. Social media and American films and sitcoms have contributed to the fashion for dressing up at Halloween.