You know a TV format has really made an impact when someone nicks it. The makers of Gogglebox may feel a combination of flattery and annoyance that, on the same night that their new series begins this week, Artsnight is adapting its concept (watching people watching TV) to eavesdrop on people gazing at paintings in galleries.  Copyright lawyers probably won’t get involved, though, because the Artsnight film has an informal relationship with Gogglebox – a knowing borrowing – rather than the formal connection between the Channel 4 series and its American reformatting, The People’s Couch. It’s often hard with TV shows to establish who had an idea first. There are screens that watch the audience in George Orwell’s Nineteen Eighty-Four – a novel that also provided the titles of the TV formats Big Brother and Room 101. Experiments in monitoring TV watching have a long academic history as well, and many documentaries, including the influential 1986 series Open the Box, have explored how the medium was consumed. Such projects exposed the sarcastic and sometimes absentee relationship viewers had with top-rated shows – some were caught making love on the sofa or cups of tea in the kitchen. Although Gogglebox is the ecstatic consummation of this idea, there had been a lot of broadcasting foreplay.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Orwell provided the title of Paul Merton’s popular TV show. Photograph: BBC This is often the case with TV hits. For instance, Carpool Karaoke is the stand-out segment on The Late Late Show with James Corden. With Elton John, Justin Bieber and Adele having recently joined Corden for a drive-by sing-along, the segment has become a web sensation and threatens to spin-off into a whole show of its own. But it can be seen as an original musical spin – consciously or not – on Carpool, a long-running web series (plus one season on Dave), in which Robert Llewellyn interviewed celebrities in vehicular situ.  Viewers may also see influences in the American 2007 sitcom Carpoolers (ABC) or Peter Kay’s 2015 Car Share (BBC1), although all these stranger-passenger shows arise from the social phenomenon of people doubling up on journeys. In a similar case of TV imitating life, the concept of property-guardians has already been reflected on TV – in this year’s Channel 4 comedy Crashing – and it would be a surprise if commissioners’ inboxes are not currently filled with other shows inspired by sites such as Airbnb, which allow mortgage-pressured home-owners to take in temporary lodgers.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Adele praises James Corden’s harmonies in Carpool Karaoke – videoThe maps of how popular programmes reach our screens are always circuitous. For example, reality-competition shows are generally dated to the first Dutch series of Big Brother in 1999, which was rapidly copycatted in other countries. However, some viewers in the Netherlands may have spotted a familial resemblance to Nummer 28, a programme from way back in 1991 in which strangers shared a house fitted with cameras.Gogglebox: why watching people watching TV never gets old For older viewers, every reality show shares some TV DNA with the pioneering documentary series The Family (BBC1, 1974), and An American Family (PBS, 1973), in which the Wilkins clan from Reading and the Louds of Santa Barbara were recorded in their daily lives. Equally, one reason that the US version of Big Brother was relatively unsuccessful when it began there in 2000 was that American audiences were already used to Real World (MTV, since 1992), in which young adults shared a house with strangers. On a distant branch of the TV family tree, Gogglebox could also be seen as an extension of Big Brother, building on to the franchise the TV lounge that the BB housemates were denied.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A still from Artsnight’s Gogglebox adaptation, in which we eavesdrop on people gazing at painting. Photograph: Kate Misrahi/BBC As lawyers have frequently argued in plagiarism and copyright cases, two people can have the same idea at the same time or a slightly different idea at a later point – and any hit builds up a slipstream, which can include foreign remakes, pastiches, satires and the ultimate accolade of rip-offs in advertising. What I think happens is that a cultural phenomenon or fear – TVs that watch you back, CCTV cameras, car-sharing – is picked up by television in a variety of ways, so that no idea is ever quite original. The result is a sort of game of consequences, in which one show feeds another. Perhaps one day there will be a Gogglebox-Big Brother crossover in which strangers are confined to a house and forced to watch telly together. 