The word of the day at Marvel Studios’ San Diego Comic Con panel on Saturday was showmanship: at the very last second of the nearly two-hour presentation, the film company announced it had cast the star of its next franchise-hopeful film Captain Marvel, and that the title character will be played by Room star Brie Larson.The actor, who won an Oscar in February for her portrayal of a kidnapped mother in Room, later confirmed the news on Twitter, to a warm reception. The casting, which had been rumoured for a couple of months, will see Larson take on the role of air force pilot Carol Danvers, whose DNA is fused with that of an alien following a traumatic accident. This leaves her with powers including energy projection, flight and super strength.The film’s director has not yet been named; the script will be by Meg LeFauve (Inside Out) and Nicole Perlman (Guardians of the Galaxy). Kevin Feige will produce – true to form, the Marvel Studios head also emceed his outfit’s Comic Con presentation on Saturday, including a discussion with the cast of Black Panther, footage from next summer’s Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2, a light show for Doctor Strange, and a comedy short by Thor: Ragnarok director Taika Waititi suggesting some of the things Thor might have done rather than fighting alongside his fellow Avengers in Captain America: Civil War – mostly annoying his non-superhero roommate.Deadpan John Goodman is king of Kong: Skull Island Comic-Con panel When the audience was dismissed, they were told they’d each get the hat Feige was wearing, emblazoned with the studio’s new logo, and so thousands of people left the hall cosplaying as one of the most powerful men in entertainment – and reminding everyone who saw them why he held that position.But it was another film that generated the most audience excitement: Spider-Man: Homecoming, the first film starring the character in Marvel’s own cinematic universe. Feige thanked Amy Pascal, until recently his opposite number at competitor Sony, for making possible the unorthodox no-cash deal to return Spider-Man to the Marvel fold after five big-budget movies and diminishing returns under Sony’s banner. “She is the reason that this happened because she put aside everything except what was good for the character.” The Sony title card played first during the trailer.“I look like a female, not a really long baby.”Director Jon Watts described his Spider-Man film as “a straight-up high school movie about a 15-year-old kid”. “This is the ground level of the Marvel Universe,” he said. “We know what it’s like to be a billionaire, we know what it’s like to be a god, we know what it’s like to be on the astral plane and now we’re going to find out what it’s like to be going through puberty and in tenth grade.”True to form, there were Easter eggs for fans of the comics the movies are based on — Hulk in the costume he wears in his comics’ Planet Hulk stories during the Ragnarok preview, a glimpse of the Green Goblin at the end of the Homecoming trailer, and the name of Kurt Russell’s character in Guardians 2: Ego, better known to comics fans as Ego, the Living Planet. Michael B Jordan will play villain Erik Killmonger in Ryan Coogler’s Black Panther film, as rumored.The casts of each of the films appeared briefly on stage to talk about their experiences, and the Guardians panel gave way quickly to a discussion of costumes. Karen Gillan said she was happy not to have been asked to shave her head for the sequel: “I have my own hair, it’s wonderful, I look like a female, not a really long baby,” she told the audience. Zoe Saldana, who plays her sister, confirmed the description: “You did,” she said.“Thank you for being honest,” Gillan replied.Next year Marvel will have a new ride at one of Disney’s parks based on the movie franchise called Guardians of the Galaxy – Mission: Breakout, featuring the entire principal cast of the first film, though Feige didn’t say at which park the ride would be built.‘Any of us could be the Ancient One’The Doctor Strange cast was more interested in discussing the politics of representation, which have been a sore spot as the filmmakers struggled to change the way the story’s Asian characters in particular were represented. “I think when I had my one-on-one with Kevin I did discuss that I wasn’t really comfortable being the manservant tea-maker,” said Benedict Wong, who plays a character also named Wong, described in the original comics as a “houseboy.” Feige and Wong came up with a more equitable solution: “I was happy being the master of the mystic arts’s drill sergeant,” Wong said with a smile.“It’s very different,” said star Benedict Cumberbatch by way of describing the movie. “The scale of it is just something else. I feel that a lot of the heavy lifting is done by the comics, a lot of the origin story — some of which we use and some of which we don’t — is quite well known.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Doctor Strange stars Mads Mikkelsen, Tilda Swinton, Benedict Cumberbatch, Benedict Wong, Chiwetel Ejiofor and actress Rachel McAdams with director Scott Derrickson (second right) at Comic-Con. Photograph: Albert L. Ortega/Getty Images“Different” was the word: before the Doctor Strange segment the lights went down, fog poured from the ceiling, and psychedelic lights and sounds sprayed over the wall of smoke and the vast series of screens around the room and on the walls. The filmmakers previewed a clip from the movie, too, in which the Ancient One sends Doctor Strange on a cosmic journey to teach him some humility.For her part, Tilda Swinton, whose character the Ancient One is an elderly man from the Himalayas in the comic books, said she wanted her character to be universal. “Any of us could be the Ancient One,” she said. “That’s the amazing thing about what’s in the comics is that ‘The Ancient One’ is a title.”The difference between the previous panels and the Marvel presentation was a striking one: much of the fun in the cast reunions and actor discussions came from costumed fans asking odd questions, or actors speculating wildly about new projects and old grudges. The Marvel panel was a well-oiled promotional machine the length of a feature film, hard at work on exactly the people who appreciate it most, right down to the hat.