Philip Townsend, who has died aged 75, took the first professional photographs of the Rolling Stones. He worked as a photographer from 1960 until 1969, and his eclectic collection of images caught the essence of the swinging 60s, when the upper classes mixed with an emerging new elite of actors, musicians and designers. Known as “Mr Sixties”, he photographed mainly in black and white, and with a twist of eccentricity. His subjects included Frankie Howerd on a skateboard, Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton, Jimmy Page in his pre-Led Zeppelin years, members of the aristocracy, police officers on a goodwill mission to Monte Carlo, the landmark Biba shop in Kensington, scenes of Carnaby Street, and models such as Linda Keith and Rory Davis.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Beatles and the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi in London. Photograph: Philip TownsendHowever, Philip’s best known images were of the Rolling Stones, and he was able to gain access to the group because of a friendship dating to his teenage years with Andrew Loog Oldham, their first producer. In 1961 Philip was working as a photographer in the south of France, when Andrew declared that by the following year he would be manager of the greatest rock’n’roll band. When he achieved his aim, Philip asked who the group were and Andrew named the Rolling Stones. Philip photographed the band around Chelsea, London, in 1962, keeping their spirits up with chicken and beer. On subsequent occasions, he shot the Stones wearing check jackets – the opposite of their bad boy image.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Philip Townsend. Photograph: Philip TownsendHe also documented the Beatles meeting the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi in London in 1967. Philip photographed the Fab Four and their consorts, including Paul McCartney’s girlfriend Jane Asher, as they chatted and even watched TV. In the days before layers of management control, the group were quite accessible, and Philip was able to come and go as he pleased.Philip was born, during a second world war air raid, into a well-to-do family in Southampton, the youngest of six children of Robert Sivewright, a naval officer, and his wife, Sylvia (nee Townsend Cobbold). He adopted the surname Townsend when his parents became estranged. Philip went to more than 25 schools, partly because his undiagnosed dyslexia prevented him from reading until the age of 15, and also because his mother’s gambling habit meant that school fees often went unpaid. Philip and some of his siblings travelled with his mother through Europe while she visited casinos.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton. Photograph: Philip TownsendConcerned that Philip needed a skill, his mother answered a Times advertisement for an apprentice, placed by the society photographer Pamela Chandler. From a Cobbold family trust, £1,000 was raised, with £500 payable to Chandler and the rest used to settle Philip and his mother into a home in London.Philip’s mother frequented many gambling houses, including some of the less salubrious ones, such as that run by the Kray twins, Ronnie and Reggie, who she thought were “such nice boys”. Philip was once detained by the brothers while his mother paid her gambling debt. Fortunately, he survived their attentions and was later able to photograph them.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Winston Churchill and Aristotle Onassis: Philip Townsend paid Churchill’s bodyguard for the chance to take this shot. Photograph: Philip TownsendPhilip left Chandler to establish in the late 50s a photographic studio with Lord Christopher Thynne, the son of the Marquess of Bath. He went on to work as a freelance for publications including Tatler, the Daily Mail and Express Newspapers. He spent much of 1961 in the south of France, where one of his early subjects was Winston Churchill, accompanied by Aristotle Onassis, upon whose yacht he had been staying. Philip’s chance came from paying Churchill’s bodyguard, whose sole instruction was “one shot, then fuck off”.Philip married Penny Howarth, a Daily Express journalist, in 1965. They travelled together to cover the Aberfan spoil tip disaster for the Express in October 1966, an experience they found deeply affecting. I met Philip at an exhibition that included his Aberfan photographs in 2008 and engaged him in conversation as my father, Douglas, had covered the horrific scenes for ITN, and from there our friendship began.In 1969, Philip gave up photography and he and Penny dabbled in shops, property, even a bar in Spain – in later years, he served a short prison sentence when his food business went into liquidation, with the courts accepting that he was “not cut out for a career in business”.Philip Townsend: the swinging 60s | In pictures In the 1980s, Philip and Penny became butler and cook to Rupert Murdoch; in the 90s, Philip went on to parody this time in a series of articles in Punch magazine, and appeared in a 2011 documentary about Murdoch, suggesting his former employer had told his newspaper editors to target the TV presenter Anne Diamond. She cited his comments in her evidence to the Leveson inquiry and Murdoch responded: “I know who made that claim, and it was my housekeeper, a very strange bird indeed. Though he did keep [the house] clean.”Philip’s work is held in the V&A (where it is part of the current Fashion in 1960s London display) and the National Portrait Gallery, where it was included in the Beatles to Bowie exhibition in 2010. An exhibition of his images, Mister Sixties, was held at the Lowry gallery, Salford, in 2010. His work was prominent in the exhibition Rolling Stones: 50 at Somerset House, London, in 2012, and is included in Exhibitionism, the Stones exhibition at the Saatchi Gallery. In 2009 he was awarded an honorary degree by Arts University Bournemouth.Penny died in 2015. Philip is survived by two sisters, Daphne and Elizabeth.• Philip Henry Vivian Townsend, photographer, born 27 June 1940; died 13 March 2016