“How can it not know what it is?”For me this question has always been the defining moment of Ridley Scott’s sci-fi classic, Blade Runner. Deckard, the policeman anti-hero played by Harrison Ford, has just discovered that Rachel, the self-possessed personal assistant to the founder of the Tyrell Corporation, is in fact one of the company’s advanced replicants: a robot. His question to Dr Eldon Tyrell is loaded with the certainty of bigotry — that repeated “it”. But Deckard’s uncertainty about Rachel, and the essential differences between humans and machines, is just the beginning of a process of disorientation that pursues him all the way to the film’s brutal but surprising climax.That we have yet to reach the dark dystopia of Blade Runner in real life is pretty obvious — just look around you. It is also obvious from the nonetheless intriguing robotics exhibition that opened a few weeks ago at the Science Museum in London. None of the machines on display comes close to the sophistication of the replicants made by the Tyrell Corporation. But Deckard’s question gains in seriousness with every new advance in the technology of “embodied artificial intelligence”, to borrow the definition coined by Alan Winfield, the world’s first professor of robot ethics. And it gathers unsettling potency when we find ourselves facing humanoid robots that seem capable of reflecting the query back to us: how do we know what we are? Our obsession with man-made man is surprisingly old, as I learned when mugging up for the exhibition by listening to Rise of the Robots, Adam Rutherford’s engaging radio documentary on the history of autonomous machines. It is to be found as far back as 2500 BCE in the tales of the servants and defenders created by the Greek god Hephaestus. But another few millennia had to pass before these ideas reached physical form in the mechanical animals at the court of Theophilus in Constantinople. Only after 1500 CE did the technology of automata become sufficiently widespread to bequeath artefacts that have endured long enough to be put on display in South Kensington, giving the exhibition its full title: “Robots: The 500-year quest to make machines human.” Over those past five centuries, the slow turn of science and technology inaugurated the materialist view of nature. The capture of time by the springs and gears of clockwork, and of the planetary orbits by Newton’s gravitational theory, brought early glimpses that the world might be understood in terms of a grand mechanism. Anatomical dissection peeled away much of the mystery of human existence to reveal, among other mechanical marvels, the muscles twitched by an electric spark and the skeleton that articulated those contractions into movement. In the eyes of many — though the viewpoint was controversial at the time and remains so in some quarters today — science drained the animating spirit from human life, and replaced it with the blind mechanics of physics, chemistry and biology. At the same time, we granted ourselves licence to engineer and have been tinkering ever since. Some of the oldest objects in the Robots exhibition — an orrery to predict the positions of the planets and their moons, and a small clockwork monk who moved its lips in prayer — are among the first products of the turn towards the mechanical understanding of the world and the irrepressible desire to replicate it. These early examples inspired feats of engineering that in the 18th century reached a notable peak in the flute and tambourine-playing automata of Jean de Vaucanson — originally a student of anatomy — and John-Joseph Merlin’s balletic Silver Swan, (which unfortunately could only be included in the exhibition for the first six weeks).Only with electricity and computer power has the sophistication of these exquisite automata been bested, and even then it has taken a considerable length of time. The humanoid creations of the 20th century may well have excited wonder in their hey-day but the shiny metal bodies of Eric and George, Britain’s first robots from the 1920s and 1940s, appear to us almost laughably stiff. The Italian giant Cygan delighted audiences in the 1950s by crushing cans and waltzing with glamorous female partners balanced on his enormous feet but only did so very, very slowly.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A warning from the future? The T800 from Terminator, watched by a 20th Century model … Photograph: Stephen Curry for the GuardianThese modern androids, the first in history to bear the name summoned up in Karel Čapek’s 1921 play, Rossum’s Universal Robots, lumbered a considerable distance behind the imagination of film-makers who set to work just a few years later. A replica of Maria, the blank-faced robot made for Fritz Lang’s 1927 film Metropolis is the centrepiece of a room in the exhibition adorned with posters and models that illuminate the hopes and fears aroused by machines in human form, including those from Blade Runner. The fears tend to dominate. There is no C3PO on show to offer light relief; instead the skeletal T‑800 from the Terminator films lurks in a dark corner, its fixed and menacing grin a warning from the future. The fictional exploration of the possibility that robots might one day surpass their human designers evidently retains a powerful grip as in this season’s hit TV series Westworld. But there is little sign of it taming the enthusiasm of 21st century engineers for developing humanoid automata, perhaps because there is still a considerable gap between the latest creations on show at the museum and the figures acting out destiny of robot-kind on the big screen. I am not sure whether that is disappointing or reassuring.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anatomical detail from CRONOS Photograph: Stephen Curry for the GuardianIn the exhibition, the robotic arms borrowed from the factory floor have a fluidity of movement that almost seems to belie the designation “robot”. The complex technology of articulation and imitation is certainly impressive but it arouses little existential concern beyond the threat to employment. More visceral anxiety is stirred by humanoid robots, even if none of those on show in the latter section of the exhibition has the animalistic fluidity of the industrial robots. But despite their evident limitations, it is the attempted mimicry of movement and intelligence that fascinates.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   iCub – the learner. Photograph: Stephen Curry for the GuardianSome engineers are deliberately seeking physical convergence with humans: Cronos, the world’s first anthropomimetic robot, was built in 2005 by a team at Bristol University as part of a project to test whether a robot constructed like a human body could figure out how to move like one. The figure on display in the Science Museum was immobile, though the video evidence suggests that it is still on the lower slopes of the learning curve. But people keep trying, adding more computer power and sensory input, like the pressure-sensitive electronic skin coating the child-like iCub, a self-learning robot that is crawling its way up that curve.The exhibition also offers face-to-face encounters with other creatures in the rapidly branching tree of robotic evolution: Asimo, Honda’s advanced but diminutive automaton is there, sadly immobile next to a rather lively RoboThespian, which seems to have had a personality transplant from C3PO. Curiously, personality is still hard to achieve if the form is too human. I found Kodomoroid, a human-skinned newsreader with lifeless eyes, to be eerily repellent, while a white plastic creature on wheels called Pepper charmed adults and children alike with his friendly demeanour.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Zoo exhibits? Clockwise from left: Asimo, RoboThespian, Komoroid and Pepper. Photograph: Stephen Curry for the GuardianTellingly all the robots are on show in perspex enclosures, as if in a zoo. This is more to protect them from inquisitive hands than to safeguard visitors from misunderstanding or malfunction, but the caging underscores the present inadequacy of human endeavours – our creations are clearly not our equals. Nevertheless the enormous distance travelled by robotic technology in the last 500 years, and particularly in the last 50, keeps Deckard’s question alive. Science may have handed victory to the materialist view on human life but we have yet to find all the links to explain how the machinery revealed in intricate detail by modern molecular biology gives rise to the conscious beings who experiment and wonder. Philosopher Daniel Dennett appears ready to jump that gap, and there is something compelling about his idea of consciousness being the “user illusion” of an organ of unprecedented complexity, but who else among us is ready to identify merely as a biological machine? We cling to ill-defined notions of our uniqueness but robots, for all their limited independence of movement and thought, keep insisting on another question: what makes us so special? For now, it’s obvious: we are the ones creating them. But at what point does the sophistication of machinery become sufficient to be regarded as life-like? I doubt we will have to wait another 500 years for an answer.“Robots: The 500-year quest to make machines human” is on at the Science Museum in London until 03 September 2017. For more musings on robots, try the Rise of the Robots documentary and Jim Al-Khalili’s interviews for The Life Scientific with Daniel Dennett and Alan Winfield (all still available on the BBC iPlayer); or check out the work of Martin Robbins or Jack Stilgoe, who regularly cover the AI beat here at the Guardian science blog network. Stephen Curry is still not sure whether he is a robot but he is definitely a professor of structural biology at Imperial College.