The actor Doon Mackichan has criticised what she calls “crime porn” – the use of “brutalised women as entertainment fodder” in television dramas such as The Fall.The Smack the Pony star calls on broadcasters to “bring the body count down” in a documentary for BBC Radio 4 in which she examines the prevalence of scenes of sexual violence involving women.Mackichan focuses on shows such as The Killing, Luther and True Detective as well as interviewing Allan Cubitt, writer and director of The Fall. The BBC drama – currently in its third series – stars Gillian Anderson as DSI Gibson, a detective on the trail of serial killer Paul Spector, played by Jamie Dornan.Still, moody, still sexy, still flawed: The Fall returns for series three The show has come under fire for scenes in which women are subjected to brutal treatment, and has been branded misogynistic. Cubitt, who has defended the show against criticism before, told Mackichan: “I don’t know how you could possibly argue The Fall is misogynistic. The Fall sets out to critique these things.“My mantra was always that we shouldn’t sensationalise it, but we shouldn’t sanitise it either.” Mackichan concedes The Fall is “beautifully shot”, but adds: “We’ve reached zero tolerance of these overused images and can move on from stories of brutalised women as entertainment fodder.”Mackichan also interviews an actor named as “Sophie” who has twice played a rape victim, and now regrets playing the part, saying she felt it was being used as titillation. In an interview for BBC Radio 4’s Seriously … podcast, Mackichan said she would “like there to be a real sea change … because it bleeds into our culture”. “We do have a lot of what I call crime porn. The onus is with commissioners who commission these programmes, and with screenwriters … who are pandering to the appetite that has been created.”Last month, Cubitt said he was left “very upset” by criticism of The Fall, but he now deems the opinion absurd. “It was something I had to talk to my daughter about, who has counselled me very well,” he said, adding: “I can’t say I’ve never made any errors or could have done something better or something different, but I know myself and I know these guys and I know what we’re all about, and that’s just an absurd comment.”