 The track I’ll be opening my next DJ set withTjin Tjin: Deeper Love (Original Mix)I usually decide my first track based on the DJ before me, the vibe of the crowd, my mood and the promoter’s mood, but I love starting with this one to break up the sets and get people ready to groove.The track I think has been unfairly slept on this yearClaude Violante: No Mercy    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This is one of my favourite tracks of last year. I released her EP on my label Atlas Chair, and I couldn’t believe it didn’t blow up to No 1. Everything seems to flow in such a natural incline that continually drops at your feet.The track I wish I’d signed to my labelSeth Bogart ft Chela: Supermarket SupermodelSeth is a genius. He’s an incredibly talented songwriter, visual artist and human being. This a great track off a great record and I’m stoked for him to keep creating.The best track by my favourite new artistHIPS: Get UpThis LA-based duo has been writing new music for a while now, and is coming out of the gates with this rad new track that is somewhere between a minimal disco jam and an R&B throwback.The track I’d play to show off my eclectic tastesD-Rail ft Randy B: Bring It On Down (Joey Negro edit)This is not so far off what I usually play – classic house and disco edits – but I think it usually it ends up feeling like a sidestep for the crowd.The track I wish I’d never playedKelly Clarkson: Since U Been Gone    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It’s a great song with a great vocal; I’m just upset I played anything produced by Dr Luke. I want to make a remix record of all the tracks he ever made. New production, save the women’s voices. Buh Bye.The track I’d play at my auntie’s weddingWham!: Wake Me Up Before You Go-Go   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This track gets everyone dancing. The old ones, the young ones, the ones who have heard it a million times, and the ones that have never heard it before.The track I’d play at my funeral Soul Divide: Catch The Light (Man Without A Clue Remix)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I’m not sure I’d like a sad funeral, probably more of a party for people to celebrate life and love and all that we have made in our community as a culture together. This song feels like a theme song for me these days, and I would love for my friends to feel the rhythm together.JD Samson plays Yo! Sissy at The Glory, E2, Saturday 19 March