How much is that doggie in the window? Before deciding to buy a canine companion, add up the total costs during its lifetime – Ben or Poppy (the two most popular names in 2016) could be more of a drain on your finances than you think.Research by the People’s Dispensary for Sick Animals (PDSA) found that 98% of pet owners underestimated the lifetime costs, with 12% (2.6 million) of dog owners putting it at £500 when the true cost is between £21,000 and £33,000 depending on size and breed. With dogs generally living for 10-13 years, that adds up to £2,000 or more a year.The upfront cost depends on the breed and where you get it from. Puppies can cost as little as £50, but can be more than £1,000 for rare breeds. Mixed breed dogs tend to be cheaper than pedigrees, unless you opt for a new hybrid such as a labradoodle or cockapoo.If you are buying a puppy, look for a breeder that is a member of the Kennel Club’s Assured Breeders Scheme. Be wary of buying from a puppy farm or online – you could be storing up trouble.Puppies need vaccinating against diseases including canine distemper, hepatitis, parvovirus and leptospirosis. Costs vary, but you should expect to pay between £30 and £60 for initial injections, and up to £40 for annual boosters.You can reduce the initial costs by getting a dog from a rescue or rehoming centre. At Dogs Trust you can adopt a dog for £120 and it comes vaccinated, microchipped, with four weeks’ insurance and, if he or she is old enough, neutered. Microchipping is a legal requirement and you risk a £500 fine if it isn’t done. A breeder or rehoming centre should do this for you, otherwise it costs about £20.There are also numerous items you will need to buy such as bedding, toys and feeding bowls. A dog crate – basically an indoor cage – might sound cruel, but they are now widely used, particularly for puppies.Research by insurer More Th>n puts the monthly cost of owning a dog at between £94 and £154, depending on size and breed. However, many people spend a lot more, particularly those in areas such as London who pay for walks or “doggy day care” while at work. As well as feeding your furry friend, you will also need to keep it worm- and flea-free and in good oral health Food is one of the biggest outgoings. There are lots of options – some people are passionate about raw meat (there are tubs available from firms such as Natural Instinct), others opt for dry kibble, and then there are various tins and sachets. However, a report by Which? last year found that spending more on premium dog or cat food does not guarantee that it is any more nutritious.As well as feeding your furry friend, you will also need to keep it worm- and flea-free and in good oral health. More Th>n puts these costs at £19 a month, while dog walkers/day care, grooming and boarding kennels add another £30 to the monthly bill.Guardian writer Mina Holland and her partner, who live in north-west London, own an 11-month-old whippet called Ernie, and she estimates their total canine bill at £376 a month. Most of this (£286) is the cost of walks. The other monthly costs are food (James Wellbeloved), £45; Petplan insurance, £35; and other bits and bobs (coats, toys, poo bags etc), £10. “He’s not cheap, but given the area, I think we do it as economically as we can, given we are both out at work,” she says.Meanwhile, Taylor Mitchell St Joseph is the owner of Toast, a six-month-old French bulldog. After paying £1,600 to buy Toast from a breeder, Taylor has also spent about £100 on toys, £50 on a crate, £60 on a bed and £150 on collars, leads and harnesses. One of his most extravagant purchases is a PlayDate, an interactive ball with a built-in video camera and controlled by a smartphone – it cost £150. “We feed him a raw diet – basically raw meat, bone and offal. We order frozen meals online and spend around £30-£40 a month, as well as the odd bone and bits from the butcher.“We also won a £50 food voucher from the online store in a photo contest – every little helps,” Taylor says. “Insurance-wise, we pay £88 a month for life cover, so we’ll be paying that for as many years as he’s with us. My sister just had to fork out £5,000 for her dog’s hip replacement, as her insurance wouldn’t pay out, so we wanted to get good cover.”French bulldogs are an expensive breed, however – the average owner spends considerably less on their pet.Paying the price if your pet falls ill      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   If you decide to self-insure, keep in mind that prices for basic procedures can vary by as much as 100% around the country. Photograph: Robert Daly/Getty Images/CaiaimageOne of the most expensive parts of dog ownership is caring for it if it falls ill or has an accident.There’s no NHS for animals, so you will need insurance to stop a poorly pet turning into a pricey pet. According to Consumer Intelligence data, the average annual premium for insuring a dog is £366, though some may feel that sounds quite high.What you pay will depend on the breed and age, the animal’s susceptibility to illness, the level of cover you want – ie, is there a maximum amount per condition per year and/or an overall annual limit – and how much the excess is.The cheapest policies are “accident-only”, while the most comprehensive are “lifetime”. The latter is designed to pay for any chronic or recurring condition during the pet’s lifetime up to set limits, as long as you keep renewing. Non-lifetime policies may not cover dogs once they reach a certain age, or those with pre-existing medical conditions.Gemma Sonfield, head of pet insurance at website Comparethemarket, says: “Each policy will come with particular exclusions and excesses, so it is crucial to thoroughly read your terms and conditions to ensure your pet gets the treatment it needs if it falls ill.”Guardian Money decided to get quotes for a healthy two-and-a-half-year-old female cockapoo called Maisy in London. A search on Moneysupermarket threw up more than 100 quotes, ranging from £3.01 a month for accident-only cover from Animal Friends, to £41.66 a month for a top-end lifetime policy from 4Paws Pet Insurance. For a lifetime policy offering anything remotely meaningful in terms of cover, we would have to pay a minimum of £10-£11 a month, though the excess in these cases was fairly high – £90-£100.Bust-ups between owners and insurers are not uncommon. Last year we reported how Animal Friends declined to pay an £800 bill after a cat ate a piece of elastic string which required a vet’s intervention. It later agreed to pay the bill minus a £99 deduction.If you choose to self-insure and pay vet bills as they arise, be aware that research by Guardian Money found that prices for basic procedures can vary by as much as 100% around the country.