Earlier this month, I took part in a fascinating discussion about Shakespeare with Glenda Jackson at the British Library. One point that emerged strongly was that his plays are not static objects but endlessly adaptable, and that the actor is confronted with an infinity of choices. So I thought I’d look at five key Shakespearean speeches and see how various actors have handled them. I stress that there is no right or wrong – simply a wealth of differences.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Adrian Lester as Hamlet: ‘To be or not to be’“To be or not to be” – Hamlet Every actor brings his or her individual character to the speech. Much hinges also on whether the speech is delivered to a camera or projected to 1,000 live spectators. One thing strikes me as crucial: there must be a spirit of active intellectual inquiry. That is why Laurence Olivier in his 1948 film has one of his rare misfires. The lines are intoned with what Kenneth Tynan called “mellow flatness” over a sustained closeup. Adrian Lester, in his version for the Guardian’s Shakespeare Solos series, is far more successful at engaging with the camera and registering the speech’s tonal shifts. But two readings by actors who could hardly be further apart have always stuck in my mind. One is by John Gielgud, who in his Ages of Man recital unforgettably stresses the way the dread of something after death “puzzles the will”, as if existence itself were unfathomable. The other is by Nicol Williamson, who in a 1960s Roundhouse production in London delivered the same speech with a sardonic, rasping disgust. It’s a classic case of two actors from opposite traditions ransacking their brains for answers.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Ayesha Dharker as Shakespeare’s Titania: ‘The forgeries of jealousy’“These are the forgeries of jealousy” – Titania What is Titania actually saying in this great speech? That immortals’ rows have mortal consequences? That between them, Oberon and Titania have caused climate change and destroyed the rhythm of the seasons? Ayesha Dharker, in her Shakespeare Solo, adopts a note of poignant regret and infinite sadness: she turns the speech into a moving lament for mankind’s fate. She doesn’t, of course, have an Oberon standing opposite her, as Fiona Hampton does in Trevor Nunn’s production at Ipswich. But it is revealing to hear Hampton adopting a radically different tone of inflamed anger as she itemises each aspect of rural ruin and fiercely tells Oberon: “This same progeny of evils comes from our debate.” Again, two actors come at the same speech from wildly different angles.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Benedict Cumberbatch as Richard III in The Hollow Crown. Photograph: Robert Viglasky/BBC/Carnival Film & Television“Give me another horse! Bind up my wounds!” – Richard III Everyone loves “now is the winter of our discontent”. Alec McCowen told me recently that when Olivier performed it on stage, he used to do slightly camp, sidelong glances into the wings like the comedian Sid Field. But Richard’s soliloquy the night before battle is far more astonishing. He wakes from a dream to engage in the first piece of prolonged self-analysis you find in Shakespeare. (“Is there a murderer here? No. Yes, I am.”) I’ve never forgotten the highly intellectual John Wood at the National in 1979 speaking the lines in a hectic whisper, as if he were simultaneously patient and psychiatrist. Benedict Cumberbatch, in the BBC Hollow Crown production, was more like a man in the grip of a visceral terror. Yet another route is taken by Ralph Fiennes at the Almeida, suggesting an iron figure who has ruthlessly pursued power coming to terms with the barrenness of a life without love.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Peggy Ashcroft, right, as Queen Margaret in The Wars of the Roses at Stratford. Photograph: Express Newspapers/Getty Images“Come, make him stand upon this molehill here” – Queen Margaret This is the famous scene in Henry VI, Part Three, when Margaret (“she-wolf of France”) holds the Duke of York captive, places a paper crown on his head and daubs his face in the blood of his dead child before stabbing him. It’s a speech that calls on all the passions, but there are different ways of approaching it. In the BBC Hollow Crown series, Sophie Okonedo was filled with fiery bloodlust. Yet Peggy Ashcroft who played Margaret in the RSC 1963 production of Wars of the Roses – newly released on DVD – once told me something fascinating. She said Peter Hall wrote her a note pointing out that, in this scene, York has the power and Margaret is the weak one. In other words, there is an edge of hysteria behind her savagery. Okonedo gave us, wonderfully, the sound and fury; Ashcroft unforgettably suggested the madness.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Laurence Olivier as Macbeth with Vivien Leigh as Lady Macbeth. Photograph: Bettmann Archive“Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow” – MacbethAgain, each actor finds his own way into the character and this climactic speech. Ian McKellen once brilliantly analysed the theatrical metaphor that sustains it, Patrick Stewart gave us Macbeth as a Stalinesque psychopath, Antony Sher’s hero was a valiant soldier in the final stages of disintegration. But only Olivier, having earlier discovered a malignant irony in Macbeth, showed us the death of a soul. There was a sublime melancholy in Olivier’s delivery of this great speech that I have rarely heard matched in the theatre – one that intensified his earlier rendering of “my way of life is fallen into the sere, the yellow leaf” when we were confronted, as in Richard III, by the hollowness of an existence without love or friendship. 