Until 10 May 2015, off-road motorcycling, also known as green-laning, was my passion. My friends and I would ride until we were 20 miles from anywhere, then sit and take off our boots in the most peaceful, uncharted pockets of calm.It was a typical spring day in the Lake District – freezing and raining. One of my mates had some trouble with his bike, so I stopped to help. We got going and headed up a steep mountain road, but another of our friends had turned back to check on us. He and I were both doing around 30mph when we met on a corner. We tried to go around each other, but we moved in sync, blocking each other, left, then right, then left again. Three seconds later, the lad I’d been helping came round the corner and saw us both lying in a heap, unconscious.I later learned that, eventually, 45 park wardens, paramedics, mountain rescue and police came to this usually isolated spot. Internal bleeding in my chest meant I couldn’t be resuscitated; my chest was so full of blood that my lungs wouldn’t inflate, so they had to push two holes into my ribcage and squeeze all the blood out, then give me a transfusion right there on the forest floor. I died several times over the three hours when I stopped breathing. Just before the helicopter took off with me in it, the paramedics told my friends that, after so many things had gone wrong, they were pretty certain I wouldn’t make it to hospital.Two weeks later, I woke up. I don’t remember any of that time. All I knew was that I couldn’t speak; I was all tubes and morphine. I didn’t look in a mirror, so I didn’t know how bad it was, but my face was smashed up and twisted until they operated, a week or so later. My wife asked the surgeon to make me look like Jason Statham – he didn’t appreciate the joke. It wasn’t until a checkup, after coming home from hospital, that I saw an x-ray. That’s when I started asking questions.On impact, our heads had collided and my helmet had disintegrated. My left eye socket had moved almost an inch downwards. My chin was crushed and the bone was left completely open to the elements, my nose hanging off at 45 degrees.The x-ray showed my face after surgery. I counted 52 screws and 13 weird-shaped plates holding the bones together. There was a girder-and-wire arrangement to keep my teeth in place, which has since been taken out, so my jaw would set back into shape. The surgeon had gone in through slits in front of my ear, under my eye, and under my lip, where it meets the gum. I was amazed by how they could do that without leaving lines or scars. It all works, but when I open my mouth wide to eat a banana my jaw clicks. My face is still a bit twisted, and it isn’t symmetrical, so I’ve grown a beard to hide that. I look trendy for the first time in my life.I crashed my car playing Pokémon Go Apart from a bit of pain in my arm and my leg, things are back to normal – I’m working full-time as an aircraft engineer. The guy I crashed into suffered severe injuries to his arm and his leg, but he is also recovering well. I do stand back and remember that I’m only here thanks to blood given by strangers. I now help promote blood donation, because the NHS needs new donors, especially those who are O negative. They are known as universal donors; their blood can be given to anyone, regardless of blood group, which is crucial in an accident like mine, when there is no time to do a test.Before this happened, I thought I was the man of the family. Now it is obvious that my wife is top of the tree. She showed incredible resilience while I was unconscious – for four days, they couldn’t tell her if I would live or die. She went through all that trauma while looking after our two kids.I’ll never go green‑laning again, and my 10-year-old boy isn’t allowed his kids’ motorbike any more. But every now and then I’ll be driving through the countryside and I’ll pass a track weaving off into the mountains, and I’ll get this ache in my chest. It’s the urge to get my gloves and boots back on and find out where it goes.• As told to Moya SarnerDo you have an experience to share? Email experience@theguardian.com