It is an idyllic spot. Sylvan slopes dip down to a babbling river fringed by alder and willow that winds through organic pasture where hens peck, sheep graze and bees hum.The ethos is sound – to restore the woods to their ancient glory, to create a small, sustainable business producing timber and firewood, and to teach vanishing forestry skills to anyone keen to learn. They also try to have fun here at the Hillyfield woodland farm, near the village of Harbourneford in Devon, holding a “Woodland Olympics” with axe-hurling, wood-chopping relay races and logging with a horse rather than modern machinery.But the project on the edge of Dartmoor is in crisis after national park planners served enforcement notices demanding that simple structures crucial to the viability of the scheme, including a tented workshop, field kitchen and even two compost toilets, be razed. The planners say the structures are a “visual intrusion” – though they are not visible to anyone who is not within the 45-acre site – and harm the character of the park.Owner and manager Doug King-Smith said he was stunned that after spending five years felling 3,000 diseased larches and replanting with more than double the number of mixed broadleaf trees, he appears to be getting so little support from the Dartmoor National Park Authority.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The King-Smith family at Hillyfield Photograph: Doug King-Smith“It seems madness that the DNPA, who have a statutory duty of care for the natural beauty of Dartmoor and to foster the economic and social wellbeing of local communities, are being so heavy-handed,” he said.King-Smith, who runs the project with help from his wife, chiropractor Claire, has had to lay down his chainsaw to deal with the legal battle. A planning inquiry is due to take place in the autumn and the King-Smiths have begun an appeal for help so they can afford a barrister and are organising a fundraiser that will include an appearance by the folksinger Martha Tilston, storytelling around the campfire and stargazing with the charity Dartmoor Skies.“We see ourselves as guardians of this precious landscape,” said King-Smith. “I find it deeply disturbing that they have thrown these enforcement notices at us and don’t seem to want to talk to us so we can find a way through.”The saga is being watched keenly by woodland champions in Dartmoor and farther afield, many of whom see the Hillyfield project as a model of how small pockets of woodland should be cared for – and the planning problems a good example of the tension between entrepreneurs such as King-Smith and conservative planners.Only 10% of England is now covered by woods, making it one of the least forested countries in Europe. According to Forestry Commission statistics, almost half of woodland in England, most of it in private ownership, is unmanaged or under-managed. Ministers are keen to make sure woodland areas are cared for and accept they must be economically viable. But all too often people who do want to make a living in the woods are being hampered by planners.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Hillyfield appealThe King-Smiths have been working to a plan approved by the Forestry Commission and have received funding from the government’s environment department, Defra. Hundreds of people have volunteered to help, contributing thousands of hours of work, and in return have learned new skills and experienced the deep joy of working within a beautiful, calm environment.Rob Penn, the nature broadcaster and writer of The Man Who Made Things Out Of Trees, said the King-Smiths were doing important work. “By committing to high standards of woodland management they provide benefit to the environment, to the local economy and for us humans,” he said. “Huge amounts of our incredible woodlands are totally neglected, often because working the land is hard work with little financial reward, or because the woodlands have been bought for tax benefits without care for the actual land itself.”Rupert Lane, who was a senior woodland officer at the DNPA and has been helping at Hillyfield, said he had seen it grow from a neglected patch of land to a “really strong dynamic asset to the landscape”. He argued the site was helping flora, fauna – and people.Nick Allison, who manages countryside and garden teams at two Devon National Trust properties, is among the 200 who have written in support of what is happening at Hillyfield. He said it was difficult for small-scale forestry enterprises to succeed, but the King-Smiths were making a go of it. “I struggle to see why this business is not getting more support,” he wrote.King-Smith believes there may be two main reasons why the park authority has, in his view, come down heavily on the project. First, cutbacks may mean it simply did not have the staff who could understand what was happening at Hillyfield. Second, he wonders if the planners are concerned the project may be a Trojan horse for a residential scheme like the one at the nearby Steward Woodland Community, home to 23 green-minded adults and children who have lived on a different Dartmoor slope for 16 years but are waiting for the result of their own battle with the DNPA, which went to a public inquiry earlier this year and may result in their eviction.It is galling for the King-Smiths that what they are trying to do seems to tally with what the DNPA says should be happening on Dartmoor. In its management plan for 2014-18, its number one priority is “supporting sustainable farming and woodland businesses that conserve and enhance the special qualities of Dartmoor”. But the park says the structures have been erected without planning permission and argues that the use of the land has changed from agricultural to residential and recreational.In a statement it said these changes were “unacceptable and unsustainable.” It added: “Two enforcement notices were served against the siting of a yurt, caravans, field kitchen, tented workshop, compost toilets, two open-fronted buildings, two motor lorry bodies and the material change of use of the land to non-forestry/agricultural use.” The statement adds: “The unauthorised structures and uses have a detrimental impact on the character, appearance and special qualities of the national park.”For now the birds still sing, the bees hum and a cheeky sheep gets into the field kitchen paddock. But the future of this slice of paradise is uncertain.