You’re standing on a rocky outcrop overlooking a landscape straight out of a Caspar David Friedrich painting. In the distance a placid lake reflects the sky. Your eye catches a bird and you follow it up, over the lake and distant hills, up past strange shadows to a second horizon – no, not a horizon, an edge, an edge that inverts the relationship between city and sky. The buildings of Manhattan loom above you like clouds of concrete, glass and steel. Momentarily disoriented, you hike further into colossal geology of Central Park. In this speculative near-future scenario, Olmsted and Vaux’s masterpiece has been excavated to reveal mountains of bedrock, and its perimeter lined with a continuous, thousand-foot-high reflective glass structure housing thousands of New Yorkers. This unlikely building and impossible landscape, dubbed New York Horizons, has been envisioned by Yitan Sun and Jianshi Wu, winners of an annual skyscraper design competition sponsored by eVolo, a journal of avant-garde architecture.  Since 2006, eVolo has invited architects and designers to imagine how new technologies and shifting cultural values might change the nature or purpose of the skyscraper in the 21st century. The entries aren’t realistic proposals, but they’re not meant to be. Critics complain that these types of competitions are indulgent exercises aimed at going viral, or pointless wastes of time that deter architects from addressing “real issues”. But this wanton experimentation and speculation is important. It gives practitioners a chance to refine their technical skills, to be unabashedly ambitious, and to think about how their work might one day address those “real issues”. Most importantly though, and what I love about this competition, is that it gives architects the chance to tell a story.  There’s a value in stories. Stories are how we learn to make sense of the world and, for many of us, how we continue to understand it. For architects, creating a compelling narrative is an opportunity to think about how people will interact with their project and how their project will exist in the world. The best entries in the eVolo competition don’t just propose radical forms, they propose radical futures: futures where we need buildings to regulate drone traffic; futures so polluted we need architectural air purifiers; futures that demand high-rise data centers in Iceland to store the collected world’s knowledge and pornography. New York Horizons envisions a future where, for dubious reasons, the topography of New York City must be redefined.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The best entries in the competition don’t just propose radical forms, they propose radical futures.’ Photograph: Yitan Sun and Jianshi Wu Like all good stories, it explores familiar themes. In today’s culture of reboots and remakes, it reads like a contemporary take on Superstudio’s 1969 project Continuous Monument, a gridded, monolithic superstructure that circles the globe to impose a rational, universal order – represented by cheerful, irony-soaked photo collages that comment on the rigidness of modernist architecture. In some ways, New York Horizons is The Force Awakens to Continuous Monument’s A New Hope. The basic moves are similar but they happen in a world of new characters and ideas. Strangely, Yitan Sun and Jianshi Wu suggest their design increases accessibility to green space by creating seven square miles of parkside apartments “without taking valuable ground area of Manhattan”, and by distributing the excavated remains of the former park throughout the city, relocating entire neighborhoods to create more wild landscapes. It reads like a acerbic subversion of the dominant real estate paradigm but the designers seem to lack any sense of irony when they describe their ambition “to reverse the traditional relationship between landscape and architecture, in a way that every occupiable space has direct connection to the nature”.I read it instead as a warning, as the last resort in a world where an out-of-control real estate market popped its bubble with a thousand thousand-foot-high pricks and, having exhausted all air rights, persuades a city to overturn countless laws and landmarks and transform Central Park into a view to be consumed. It’s a dark vision, brightly rendered. And maybe it’s just my vision, but that’s the joy of a story – it can mean different things to different people. The eVolo contest, along with newer competitions like Fairy Tales, which invites designers to engage the public through brief, illustrated narratives, provide a rare opportunity for architects to reach a wider audience. Striking images and jargon-free storytelling can bring clarity to complex issues – not just to help architects make sense of the world, but to help the world make sense of architects. There’s value in dreaming about impossible architecture. What better place to do that than New York? Like the song says, it’s a concrete jungle where dreams are made of. There’s nothing you can’t do.