There will be Bacon’s Screaming Popes, Spiders from Mars, the world premiere of a new Richard Bean play and a particularly important and surprise commitment from the director general of the BBC: from 1 January 2017 Hull will always be on the weather map.To cheers, Tony Hall made the pledge at the launch of the programme for Hull UK City of Culture, adding that the BBC would be “unashamedly Hull-centric in 2017”.Hull was named UK City of Culture after the success of Derry’s inaugural year in 2013. Both follow the transformative examples of Glasgow and Liverpool, which were European Capitals of Culture in 1990 and 2008 respectively.What that means is a budget of £32m and a blizzard of arts and culture in the city over 365 days. Among the details announced on Thursday was a new Bean play, The Hypocrite, which will premiere at Hull Truck theatre in February before transferring to the RSC in Stratford.Bean said the play, a comedy, was inspired by the life of Sir John Hotham and his role in making Hull the place where the English civil war started.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Richard Bean holds a copy of the Hull UK City of Culture 2017 opening season programme. Photograph: Matthew Lloyd/Getty Images for Hull UK City of CultureBean, who wrote One Man, Two Guvnors, was born in Hull and proud of it. “If you are born here you know Hull is a great city and I always felt extraordinarily privileged.“When I got older and started writing plays I realised, thank God I wasn’t born in Guildford. Thank God I was born somewhere there is tragedy and comedy every other second.”The distinctiveness of Hull will be a key part of the year’s programme. Martin Green, the CEO and director of Hull 2017, said that the city was a place which was countercultural, quirky and questioning and that the opening season had been “wrenched from the fabric of the city”.It is a programme that has edge and takes risks, such as in the planned retrospective exploring the work and legacy of COUM Transmissions, a subversive collective founded in Hull in the late 1960s – one which was described by Conservative MP Nicholas Fairbairn as the “wreckers of western civilisation”.There will be four distinct seasons in the year, the first called Made in Hull, curated by the documentary film-maker Sean McAllister.Among the highlights will be a four-day season of Nordic music curated by the singer-songwriter John Grant; the transformation by Opera North of the Humber Bridge into a piece of music; a season of films by Anthony Minghella; and a retrospective celebrating the work of ambient music pioneer Basil Kirchin.There will also be a homecoming show for David Bowie’s backing band the Spiders from Mars which featured local boys Mick Ronson, Trevor Bolder and Mick “Woody” Woodmansey. The plan on 25 March is for a live rendition of The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust and The Spiders from Mars in its entirety, by the band Holy Holy – featuring Woodmansey, Tony Visconti and Heaven 17’s Glenn Gregory.One of Hull’s shiniest jewels is its Ferens art gallery which will reopen in January after a £4.5m refurbishment.It will display its permanent collection, containing works by artists from Frans Hals to Barbara Hepworth and Mark Wallinger. They will be joined by an early 14th-century devotional work which the gallery bought in 2013 and which it is hoping will be a true star.Pietro Lorenzetti’s Christ Between Saints Paul and Peter has been through four years of research and conservation at the National Gallery and will be revealed for the first time in January, joined by loans of other early Sienese paintings.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Francis Bacon’s Head VI. Photograph: Arts Council CollectionThere will be a slew of significant loans in the year including five of Francis Bacon’s Screaming Pope works; Rembrandt’s The Shipbuilder and his Wife from the Royal Collection; and Manet’s Le Déjeuner sur l’Herbe from the Courtauld.Hull is being helped by arts organisations across the UK to, it hopes, make it the buzziest place to be in 2017. In the autumn, Hull will host the 2017 Turner prize.But not everything has gone to plan. The city hoped to be able to borrow Jason, the De Havilland Gipsy Moth plane flown by Hull-born aviator Amy Johnson, from the Science Museum.It was impossible to move, said Green, so instead they have funded a replica – built by prisoners. “The idea that there are prisoners building a plane,” he said. “I think that is very of this city.”Green, who was head of ceremonies for the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games, promised that the year of culture was the start of a far bigger council-driven 30-year plan for Hull.“Legacy” would be more than just a word. “I’ve been around the block a bit on these things and this is the most well-prepared, well-funded and thought through legacy programme I have ever seen.”And of course there is the question of Hull and BBC weather maps, which several people had raised, said Hall. “Sometimes it’s there, quite often it is not. I’ve just made a telephone call and I can tell you that as of Jan 1 2017 Hull will be there on every weather map, national and local. And as we’re talking about legacy … 2018, 2019!”