When Steves from People Just Do Nothing met Craig David, he cried. And not just a solitary, dignified, Oscars-acceptance speech-style tear. It was a full blown freak-out. “I was so emotional that I wept in his arms while he cradled me. I kept trying to smell his hair,” he sighs in an Ibiza dressing room as he recounts a recent joint radio appearance. “It’s probably the best moment of my career.”Tonight, he might find himself with a new career highlight: in an hour’s time the stars of the mockumentary will be onstage, headlining a gig at the Ibiza Rocks hotel. Here, as on TV, they are fictional crew Kurupt FM, Brentford’s premier (and only) pirate radio station dedicated to UK garage, though the degree of separation between the telly and reality isn’t much at all. Around them are so many litre bottles of vodka, fried chicken cartons and ice buckets of champagne that describing their dressing room is like reciting a Rick Ross lyric.As they wait to go on, everyone is very much in character. Bullish head honcho MC Grindah dominates conversation, talking himself up, trying to bend everyone to his will, including me (“We’ve done a ‘pretty successful’ TV show? Change that! Write ‘VERY successful!’”). DJ Beats, Grindah’s downtrodden sidekick, is spraying dimwitted soundbites (“What’s utopia? Is it that big eco-bubble in Cornwall where they grow plants?”). Drug-loving conspiracy theorist Steves recounts tales of narcotic over-indulgence (“I pooed myself once, but that was at a festival; everyone poos themselves at festivals”). Chabuddy G, true to his shonky Del Boy of an entrepreneur role, is trying and failing to sound like an impresario (“Success? I’m shopping at bloody Waitrose now, mate!”).   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  People Just Do Nothing: watch a clip from series three of the BBC3 comedyWatching them engage in impeccable comedy improv as the thud of the warm-up acts rattles the walls, it’s easy to forget that these are actors in a BBC3 sitcom. It’s hard to imagine the cast of Two Pints Of Lager And A Packet Of Crisps wandering out in front of 2,500 adoring fans and yelling “HELLO IBIZA!”People Just Do Nothing: how to make it in the cutthroat world of pirate radio Unlike Two Pints…, People Just Do Nothing is impeccably observed, mimicking the ramshackle nature of UK garage and grime broadcasting. Kurupt FM’s sophisticated studio setup is in the living room of Steves’ nan’s tower-block flat, having fun with the way budget pirate radio setups can start out of someone’s kitchen, as London’s former pirate and now legit station Rinse FM did. The show itself started out as a YouTube series and when it was picked up by BBC3, its pilot episode became the online portal’s most-shared video in the month of its release. Since then their fanbase has soared, thanks to the absurdity of Kurupt’s antics, from soundproofing the station by raiding wheelie bins for old egg boxes to funding their operating costs by DJing S Club 7 at a naff wedding. It’s a homage to an anachronistic medium that teams nostalgia with belly laughs.But it isn’t just urban music aficionados who have taken the show to their heart. People Just Do Nothing crossed over into a mainstream fanbase to the extent that when Tate Britain wanted to put on an evening dedicated to exploring “the cult of celebrity”, they felt the best way to do so was to allow Kurupt FM an hour-long set of decade-old beats and comedy garage lyrics. So popular has it proven that, when it was recommissioned last October, the BBC took the rare step of giving them a further two new series, for both BBC3 and BBC2.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hands up... Kurupt FM perform in Ibiza. Photograph: Luke DysonThe show’s accuracy is partly explained by the cast’s familiarity with UK dance music. Later in the evening I wander into an out-of-character conversation between Beats (real name Hugo Chegwin, nephew of Keith, and a music producer who has worked with Emeli Sandé and Sam Smith) and one of the support DJs, in which he’s saying, “Man, I used to play on this pirate station in Heston that was in a proper crack den!”The rest of the cast, who also co-write the mockumentary, fess up to having variously worked on pirate radio stations during their youth – Allan Mustafa, who plays MC Grindah, was once a UK hip-hop MC called Seapa Don. As a result, even when they’re just riffing in-character, you can easily imagine hearing the same braggadocio-strafed statements hissing over a tinny FM signal.People Just Do Nothing: DJ Beats and MC Grindah's top 10 pirate radio anthems It’s no wonder they count rappers such as Stormzy among their admirers (Grindah: “He’s always coming up to me, like, ‘I love everything you do! Please teach me more about MCing!’”). Or that they convinced an entire roster of UK garage heroes – including Craig David – to join them for the 1Xtra’s station’s Fire In The Booth segment, where MCs get to show off their skills. Not that the charms of People Just Do Nothing are for everyone. During one recent Radio 1 Live Lounge session, listeners were baffled by Steves’s (real name Steve Stamp) recorder playing and Grindah’s repeated swearing. The outcry led to it being widely reported as “the worst Live Lounge in history”.“It’s the hippy vegan bastards, the guitar people,” tuts Chabuddy G (played by Asim Chaudhry), as he trousers a tobacco packet and leaves the dressing room. “That’s who’s complaining. The bloody vegans, mate.” Steves agrees. “The first thing they offered us was to MC with Newton Faulkner on an acoustic guitar! Some brer with ginger dreadlocks!”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Can you fill me in... Takeover of Radio 1 Xtra with Craig David last year. Photograph: Mark Allan/BBCKurupt FM take their positions on a stage-side gantry. A DJ plays a couple of warm-up tracks, and from where they’re standing it’s possible to see hundreds of holidaying teens waiting eagerly. The gig they’re about to perform is being billed as Champagne Steam Rooms, an event they previously put on at the end of series two in Chabuddy G’s gritty lockup, complete with dusty milk crates being used for seating and with a VIP area that had a toilet located in the middle. Now that they’ve graduated to headlining Ibiza, does it feel as if Kurupt FM has succeeded in its mission to take garage to the masses?“Actually, our mission here is to rid Ibiza of house music, to stop the government using it to control people’s minds,” says Grindah, his face serious. “Yeah, Murdoch’s probably sat there making house tunes right now, mate!” adds Steves. “The other day I played a house tune backwards,” laments Chabuddy G, “and it said, ‘Vote Brexit,’” So that’s your reason for playing here? The belief that Brits voted to leave the EU because they were listening to the wrong kind of dance music? “That’s right. House Every Weekend,” he says, referencing the ubiquitous deep house single that reached number one in July. “Rewind it and it says, ‘Vote Brexit.’”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Steves. Photograph: Jack Barnes/BBCThis is the kind of funny that seems to come easy to People Just Do Nothing. A knack for pin-sharp accuracy within the world of urban music aside, at its core is a flair for writing comic dialogue packed with delusional nonsense that anyone can enjoy. The characters are so perfectly inhabited that they don’t just have you cackling at their misfortune, they wring genuine pathos out of them – particularly Chabuddy G, whose ludicrous attempt to fashion a successful marriage with a mail-order Polish bride manages to be packed with both schadenfreude and heartbreak. As you’d expect from a show that lists The Office’s Ash Atalla as an exec producer, it’s in the finest tradition of cringe-inducing mockumentary.As showtime begins, the cast seem determined to prove that they don’t need to be in front of a TV camera to win over an audience. While they drop track after track that you’d find in a set by any bona fide UK garage DJ, Beats ludicrously claims, “Lyrically I’ll blaze them, because I look like Jason Statham.”Women flail their hair around like weapons; men grab the towels that Steves is throwing into the crowd and hold them aloft as though they’ve just won the World Cup. One of the crowd’s most enthusiastic dancers is the evening’s support act, rising grime star Novelist, surely someone who wants something a bit more serious to move to?       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chabuddy. Photograph: Jack Barnes/BBC“You might think it’s a joke, but they actually do the sound properly – and that excites me,” he shouts over the gig. “Just watch this!” Then, Steves, operating the turntables, drops Shy FX’s jungle classic Original Nuttah and a genuine circle pit opens up among the crowd. Punters smash their bodies against each other in gleeful, garage-fuelled masochism.“We’re like the bloody Beatles of Brentford,” chuckles Chabuddy G, summing up the reaction as he leaves the stage. And this, I realise, is the thing about People Just Do Nothing: almost none of the statements they make are serious. But that doesn’t mean they’re not speaking the truth.New episodes of People Just Do Nothing are released weekly on bbc.co.uk/bbcthree and shown on Wednesdays, 10pm, BBC2 