Top authors have gathered in parliament to campaign against cuts to libraries and are calling on MPs to ensure the public service has sufficient funding.Librarians and supporters from across the UK descended on parliament in London, urging MPs to focus on what they see as the root cause of the decline in libraries – laying the blame on “apathy and ignorance” in local and central government.Bestselling authors including children’s authors Alan Gibbons, Cathy Cassidy, and Philip Ardagh joined the Speak Up for Libraries campaign that has outlined a manifesto calling on MPs to give libraries a long-term future.The campaign has called on MPs to sign an early day motion to support libraries and librarians, including enforcing the law that says local authorities must provide a comprehensive and efficient library service, which goes back to the Public Libraries and Museums Act 1964.Sarah McIntyre (@jabberworks)Writers & illustrators supporting libraries at #SUFLlobby16!! @JohnDougherty8 @PhilipArdagh @mygibbo #JakeAinott pic.twitter.com/Rdl4QZPke1February 9, 2016At a packed hall in Westminster, flanked with colourful handmade banners with “save our libraries” slogans, young adult author Cathy Cassidy recalled her first visit to a library when she was seven. “When I was growing up libraries were magical magical places,” she said. “When I went home that evening I told my family and we went back to the library. I developed a habit with my father going to the library. I loved it and ate it all up and ended up with three libraries.“Sadly the first library I went to in Coventry is under threat. The libraries in Liverpool where I went as an art student are under threat, with some already handed over to community groups. The libraries in Scotland that my children visited are under threat. It’s the same story over and over.”Children’s author Philip Ardagh, who told the room he once worked as an “unprofessional librarian” in Lewisham, said: “Closing down a library is like filing off the end of a swordfish’s nose: pointless.”'Speak up before there's nothing left': authors rally for National Libraries Day “Today proves that support for public libraries comes from all walks of life and it’s not rocket science to work out why. It’s because local libraries – and I repeat local – serve people from all walks of life, in so many different ways,” Ardagh told the Guardian. “A good local library has always been at the heart of the community, which is why these cuts are so bloody and devastating. Our voices need to be heard.”A range of librarians, from young school volunteers to senior long term workers, took to the podium to talk about their experiences and the communities they helped. One librarian said it was hard for young readers to be enthused “when they saw the walls crumbling” in the public spaces.Alan Wylie, who has worked in a public library for 25 years, said: “Libraries are part of the democratic engagement. [The institution] provides free opportunities for informal education and is an absolutely crucial part of what makes a community, where they can get advice and go for warmth.“We have regular users of the library, for 20 to 30 years, coming and saying to us we don’t know what we’d do without libraries.”Joanna Trollope: 'UK cannot afford to close one single public library' More than 100 libraries were closed last year in the UK, with at least 441 shutting in the past five years, according to figures from Speak Up for Libraries, the coalition of organisations working to protect library services and staff that is behind Tuesday’s event. Wales has suffered the biggest proportionate drop, losing 11% of its libraries since 2010.Library funding has been cut by more than £180m over the last five years – a drop of 16% – corresponding with a 93% increase in volunteers working in libraries and a 22% drop in staff since 2010. Last week, Swindon borough council announced plans to hand over responsibility for 14 of its 15 libraries by 2020 to volunteers, in order to cut its library budget by around £1.5m by 2020.In December 2015, the Chartered Institute of Library and Information Professionals launched a challenge against the UK government after receiving legal advice from human rights barrister Eric Metcalfe of Monckton Chambers. It said that while the government claims that the provision of libraries is down to local authorities to determine, this is not the case, and it is the “legal duty” of the culture secretary, John Whittingdale, “to provide clear statutory guidance on the definition of a ‘comprehensive and efficient’ service”. A petition launched by Cilip asking the government to “fulfil their statutory responsibilities to taxpayers” has since gained over 13,000 signatures.At Tuesday’s rally, children’s author Alan Gibbon made a direct challenge to Ed Vaizey, the minister of state for culture: “I will debate you on one condition - we want the maximum number of the public to quiz you,” he said, adding that campaigners outside of London must have the opportunity to speak with Vaizey as well.“The entire public library service is at risk and the culture minister is failing to pursue its interests,” Gibbon told the Guardian. “I have challenged Mr Vaizey to debate this publicly when library users from all over the country can attend. He can visit Hammersmith library on National Libraries Day, but can’t offer us a Saturday when the library community as a whole could express itself. School report on the DCMS: must do better.”Love letters to libraries: Robin Ince, Meg Rosoff and other famous names check in Novelist Jake Arnott said: “Throughout our history the library has proved to be the most effective and resilient memory system for our culture and civilisation.“The public library creates a collective consciousness. Any attack on it simply adds to a social dementia.”