It’s been just over six months since Trevor Noah took over as host of The Daily Show on Comedy Central, and a year since James Corden debuted as the host of CBS’s The Late Late Show – two largely unknown foreigners moving into prominent US television real estate. In another time, either would have been a game changer, but 2015 was a year of unprecedented turnover in the ever-expanding world of late-night comedy talkshows.Late-night television is “a really foundational genre for television in general; it’s also the one that has changed the least, in certain ways”, according to Alix Korn of the cultural consultancy TruthCo, who wrote a recent report on the new trends in late-night television. The late-night talk format, invented in the mid-20th century and perfected on Johnny Carson’s Tonight Show, was static for decades; now it’s undergoing a seismic shift in tone and style. “The format is really loosening up, and there aren’t those hard and fast rules any more,” said Korn.Trevor Noah: ‘It’s easier to be an angry white man than an angry black man’ The Daily Show gig was up for grabs after Jon Stewart announced his retirement in February, only a month after Larry Wilmore debuted The Nightly Show in Comedy Central’s 11.30pm time spot. That space was open because Stephen Colbert was to inherit CBS’s The Late Show in September from David Letterman, who retired in May. Letterman’s retirement essentially forced Craig Ferguson, the host of the 12.30am program The Late Late Show, to step aside as well, leaving the spot open for Corden. The ripple effects of those moves are still being felt in 2016. The former Daily Show correspondent Samantha Bee jumped ship for her own TBS weekly, Full Frontal; while Chelsea Handler, who had been tipped by some to replace Ferguson, debuts her own series on Netflix this May.These shows join the established crop of late-night shows: NBC’s The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon and Late Night with Seth Meyers, ABC’s Jimmy Kimmel Live, TBS’s Conan, and HBO’s Last Week Tonight with John Oliver, as well as less-discussed shows such as Bill Maher’s long-running HBO show Real Time, Paul F Tompkin’s puppet-filled No, You Shut Up! on Fusion and NBC’s documentary-style Last Call with Carson Daly. There’s also Fox News’s stab at countering the left-leaning bent of late night with Red Eye. In the past, it was so much about a very finite, confined ecosystem, but now, everything is so fracturedComedy Central's Kent Alterman But even with new additions and more choice, late-night television is not what it once was. With so many options, the old Leno v Letterman mentality of “winning” in late night doesn’t apply any more. “There are a lot of people out there doing it right now who have a lot of mutual respect for each other,” said Kent Alterman, president of original programming at Comedy Central. “In the past, it was so much about a very finite, confined ecosystem, but now, everything is so fractured that it’s harder to even look at it that way. There’s so many factors at play that it adds to it feeling less like a direct, zero-sum game.”It would be hard for any one person consume that much television, nor would any sane individual want to. Watching a John Oliver deep dive on YouTube doesn’t preclude someone from watching a Jimmy Fallon lip-synch battle, one of Stephen Colbert’s Friday night fights, a batch of Jimmy Kimmel mean tweets, a Seth Meyers closer look, a James Corden carpool karaoke, a Conan video game review, a Daily Show field piece, a Nightly Show panel, or a Samantha Bee rant.Late-night television is a no longer a glass of warm milk before bed. It’s a lunch buffet; each viewer can pick and choose the bits she wants to make one perfectly tailored meal the next day. But what, then, does it even mean to succeed in late-night television in 2016, and who’s doing it?Stephen Colbert      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Helen Mirren on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert. Photograph: CBS Photo Archive/Getty ImagesIn a traditional sense, last year’s highest-profile change – that is, the one that featured the earliest time slot on network television – was Colbert’s move to CBS’s The Late Show. Much was made of what the “real” Colbert would be like as a host, having ditched the bombastic Dr Stephen T Colbert character he had honed at The Daily Show and The Colbert Report. He turned out to be just as fans hoped – a genial, whip-smart performer with a twinkle in his eye. “I know there were some expectations beforehand that they might really shake up the format of the traditional talkshow, and they haven’t really done that,” said the journalist Sharilyn Johnson, who has written extensively about Colbert. “But he’s made it work for him.”Perhaps the most striking thing about Colbert’s show in the modern TV landscape is its shortage of viral-video bait; the host is, at times, almost anti-pop culture. Some of his most prominent segments have been an emotional sit-down with Joe Biden, a serious discussion with the Black Lives Matter activist DeRay Mckesson, and a classical performance by Misty Copeland and Yo-Yo Ma.In an interview with AdWeek before his live post-Super Bowl episode, Colbert talked of his desire to shoot the show as live “to the second”. That has sometimes meant retaining flubs and awkward moments that another show might fix in editing. Paired with his decision to do his monologue as a pre-credits cold open, it gives the show an almost anything-can-happen energy. That vibe will please his long-term fans, who delighted when he “broke” on Comedy Central, but could leave new viewers a little uneasy. And in admirably pivoting away from Letterman’s bored disdain in celebrity interviews, he can go too far the other direction, excitedly interrupting guests whose brains don’t work as fast as his.James Corden      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Late Late Show with James Corden. Photograph: CBS Photo Archive/Getty ImagesFollowing him at CBS is Corden, who was barely known in the US when he was named as the host of The Late Late Show the summer of 2014, and who has smartly run with an underdog persona that suits him and his show well. By choosing the comedian Reggie Watts as his band leader and sidekick, he’s got the comedic force of one of standup’s great surrealists to play off – he sometimes hands over entire sketches to Watts, whose prominent inclusion in the opening credits almost implies that the show is a two-hander.James Corden’s Late Late Show highlights With his co-opting of Graham Norton’s all-the-guests-out-at-once format, Corden seems happier to share the spotlight than the average television presenter, and it gives the conversations more of a living-room vibe. “The host is on the same level as them, so that sort of also codes for a de-hierarchizing between the guest and the host,” said Korn of Corden’s set. “It also reflects a lot of the cultural relationships between fans and celebrities, which is not as distant as it used to be. We have way more access to them, and we want to be their friends, and think we can be, more than ever before.”Corden’s biggest viral successes have been his carpool karaoke videos, which smartly take advantage of his driving-centric Los Angeles surroundings when most late-night shows are now New York-based. The conceit – that he needs another rider so he can drive in the HOV lane in LA’s notoriously awful traffic – puts him in the car with pop superstars, singing along to both their own songs and classic pop ditties. Like other in-car interview shows like Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee and Carpool, the lack of audience and crew clearly relaxes the participants and produces more interesting interviews than in-studio sit downs do. Trevor Noah      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Trevor Noah sizes up Jon Stewart on The Daily Show set. Photograph: Brad Barket/Getty Images for Comedy CentralOver on cable, Comedy Central also made a seemingly left-field choice when Noah was named to succeed Stewart at The Daily Show; he’d only appeared three times as a contributor to the program, and had spent limited time in the US. But standup fans had seen his phenomenal global rise over the last few years and his delicate handling of political and social issues. He was a bold choice, but one that seemed like a smart investment in a future star. “If we tried to replace Jon Stewart with just a younger version of Jon Stewart, it would be probably be a fool’s errand because Jon is sort of peerless,” said Alterman, citing the network’s desire to connect with a younger audience.It’s too early to say whether that investment is paying off. In reaction to an election campaign of epically chaotic proportions, critics have longed for Stewart’s comforting agitated rage and dismissed Noah as underwhelming and bland. Most late-night shows are given time to grow, but the perception remains that Noah was handed a fully formed institution – same writers, same theme song, same studio – and told to just keep the boat afloat. In reality, it put him in a tough spot. The election was in full force from almost the beginning, and while his “I just learned this” attitude towards American politics can be endearing, it’s frustrating for viewers expecting a deeper layer of critique. Never mind that as a comic, Noah couldn’t be more different than Stewart – Stewart’s standup always had elements of frustration and neurotic energy, while Noah’s features more disbelief and earnest enthusiasm.Larry Wilmore      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Larry Wilmore on The Nightly Show. Photograph: Bryan Bedder/Comedy CentralThe post-Daily Show spot saw many iterations before The Colbert Report established itself as a bit. After Colbert left, the network wanted to look at “what do we do with this real estate and continuing to lean into the world of politics and media”, said Alterman. He said Stewart had been instrumental in developing a show “that would really embody giving voice to the underrepresented, and having it be led by somebody that’d really have a sort of barbershop kind of panel weighing in on the events of the day from a point of view that’s not necessarily represented out there in the overall landscape of late night”.Larry Wilmore’s Nightly Show is experimenting with a format that is a hybrid of semi-successful ideas from other show; the panel from with Real Time and Red Eye; the activist spirit and liberal fury from Rachel Maddow and W Kamau Bell; a certain amount of stunt-casting from Last Week Tonight. It’s not an obvious recipe for success, especially compounded with Wilmore’s willingness to forgo laughs for forceful political and social points.“In so many ways, this is the least funny late-night show that is on the air right now,” said Korn. “Not to say that Larry Wilmore isn’t funny – he definitely is –but he’s consciously taken on a self-serious tone so that he’s not laughing about a lot of the tragedies that he’s covering, but he’s truly outraged and really wants people to be outraged with him.”While he’s adopted The Daily Show’s strategy of excellently named segments – the presidential election has been dubbed “Blacklash 2016: The Unblackening” – he seems to be settling for middling writing about important things, rather than carving new ground or drilling down for truly hilarious jokes. And by changing his panellists every night, his last act is always a bit of a crapshoot, like inviting random people to a dinner party and hoping for the best. Wilmore is a more than able host, and his own point of view is sharp, but the unscripted discussions are too short to be meaningful and too loose to feel productive.Samantha Bee      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Samantha Bee: Full Frontal. Photograph: HandoutPerhaps the biggest shift in late night is the move toward more weekly shows. It’s not entirely fair to put a once-a-week series like Samantha Bee’s Full Frontal up against daily shows, since each episode of a weekly is essentially a best-of. But after only a month on the air, Bee has emerged from the shadows of both her former gig and her weekly pseudo-competition, John Oliver’s show. While Oliver’s Last Week Tonight has earned praised for its long, commercial-free explorations of issues big and small, Bee smartly uses her more traditional half-hour format to explore the myriad of infuriating issues that land on her desk – or rather, in her desk-less studio – each week. “The cultural value of a weekly format isn’t to react to the news cycle or just regurgitate the news cycle. It’s really about carving out a fresh perspective on it,” said Korn.Samantha Bee: 'I'm the only woman stupid enough to do this job' Bee has been heavily touted as the only woman in the late-night game (despite her 10.30pm show technically falling in prime time), and she’s embraced this position with gusto, hammering issues like abortion and the wage gap to emphasize their continuing importance. With her episode count still in the single digits, she’s got time to establish her format – the show has just been picked up through the end of the year.So what’s next?If it succeeds, Bee’s short-season cable network structure is likely to become the model for future late night and almost-late-night shows. It’s a method that has had mixed results in recent years – FX’s weekly Totally Biased with W Kamau Bell did reasonably well, but its attempted move to a nightly FXX spot flopped. MTV’s Nikki and Sara Live lasted two short seasons, as did Bravo’s Kathy. But late-night shows remain attractive to cable channels. “I think the prime appeal for us is that, especially as a comedy network, it’s great to have that platform where we can have talent who just are directly reacting, responding, commenting on what’s happening in the world,” said Alterman. “I think the heart of good comedy really lives in truth and reacting to the absurdities, hypocrisies, abuses of power in the world.” Late night television is a no longer a glass of warm milk before bed, it’s a lunch buffet And as TV viewership declines and internet virality becomes as important as real-time eyeballs, cable networks might find that topical comedy is a smart, cost-effective way to grab cross-platform attention. “It’s shifted from sort of a one-size-fits-all to a niche perspective,” said Korn. “That’s a good thing. I think people can be afraid of that but it is really resonating in culture when we have hosts and formats that speak to what we value and what we want from our news and our entertainment.” In a few years, the days when only a dozen late-night shows competed for our attention may feel like simple times.Before a Daily Show taping earlier last month, an audience member asked Noah: “How did you get this job?” It was a question ambiguous enough to encompass both “How do I get this job someday?” and “Who the hell thought you should be on television?” Noah took it in stride, recounting his years as a successful comic in South Africa and the phone call from Jon Stewart that brought him to the show as a contributor in 2014. Charming and informative, it was an answer he had been given plenty of chances to hone during his press blitz last summer. But then, with the wisdom of someone who’s actually spent time in the host chair, he added: “The hard part is keeping this job.”