The Secret Life of the Hospital Bed 11am, BBC1This new 24 Hours in A&E-ish daytime series follows the changing residents of hospital beds at Newcastle upon Tyne’s Royal Victoria infirmary and Great North children’s hospital, Queens hospital in Romford and Queen Elizabeth hospital in Birmingham. In bed 52 in Birmingham, 63-year-old Eddie is in for a hernia op, while in bed 40, Thomas, 25, is having what is hoped will be the final operation to reconstruct his cleft palate. Ben ArnoldJunior Bake Off 5.30pm, CBBCBake Off on the BBC isn’t quite dead: the kids’ version lacks Mel, Sue, Paul and Mary, but has its own magic. The four contestants in the first heat make red velvet whoopee pies, followed by a cake that incorporates a gravity-defying optical illusion. These tasks are completed with some skill, by children who reveal their character through the act of baking just as surely as their adult counterparts. And – hurrah! – Nadiya Hussain is this year’s new judge. Jack Seale Tricks of the Restaurant Trade 8.30pm, Channel 4The new series opens with a study of the coffee shop, a phenomenon that has overwhelmed Britain so quickly we forget how recent it is – as the introduction observes, barely two decades ago, the freeze-dried instant stuff was billed as aspirational. Adam Pearson, Simon Rimmer and Kate Quilton consider the impact on British high streets, waistlines and social lives. There’s also an encouraging lesson in making your own takeaway. Andrew MuellerSAS: Who Dares Wins 9pm, Channel 4This special forces reality contest has been gruelling to watch, let alone take part in. But tonight’s endgame ramps up the agony further still, as the series culminates in a 24-hour interrogation challenge that fewer than 10% of real-world candidates manage to complete. At the end, catharsis for at least one of our suckers for punishment, as they earn the approval of utterly terrifying instructors Ollie and Ant. Phil HarrisonNW 9pm, BBC2Without losing any of the realism, contrast and tragicomedy of its source material, this one-off adaptation of Zadie Smith’s 2012 novel manages to condense an irregularly formed tale into a 90-minute TV slot. Best friends Natalie (formerly Keisha) and Leah made it out of their tough north-west London estate, but their pasts still haunt them in a story of secrets, lies and parallel lives done justice by leads Nikki Amuka-Bird, Phoebe Fox, Richie Campbell and OT Fagbenle. Hannah J DaviesChris Tarrant: Extreme Railways 9pm, Channel 5Our amiable guide hops aboard the Blue Train (“basically a five-star hotel on wheels”) on a railway that owes its existence to that early architect of apartheid, Cecil Rhodes, and his notorious legacy of blood, sweat and diamonds. It’s a journey that’ll take Chris 1,500 miles from Cape Town to the dazzling Victoria Falls. You can see why the locals call the Falls “the smoke that thunders”: it’s like something out of Lord of the Rings. Ali CatterallDrifters 10pm, E4All hail the finale of the hard-drinking/slacking/twerking monstrosity that never fails to bring the laughs. The girls are going out on a high with Meg proving as useful as ever when she has to act like a grownup and organise Grandma Primrose’s funeral. Laura is on a final warning at work, so taking a sicky would be inadvisable. But when beautifully workshy Bunny stumbles across some Glastonbury tickets, the gang are faced with a dilemma. Hannah VerdierFilm choiceThe Hound of the Baskervilles (Terence Fisher, 1959) 5.10pm, Film4The famous Conan Doyle story gets a Hammer horror makeover, so it’s all good, gory, bosom-heaving fun. Christopher Lee is the last of the Baskervilles, the cursed Dartmoor lords who have been dying in the jaws of a hell hound for two centuries and, frankly, they’re sick of it. Enter Peter Cushing’s Sherlock Holmes and André Morrell’s Watson to collar the brute. Paul HowlettLive sportTennis: ATP World Tour Finals 2pm, BBC2 Andy Murray has never gone further than the semi-finals – but will be hopeful of doing so on day two of this year’s tournament.Darts: Grand Slam 7pm, Sky Sports 1 Coverage of day three at the Wolverhampton Civic Hall.Test Cricket: Australia v South Africa 11pm, BT Sport 3 South Africa try to make it 2-0 in the second Test in Hobart.