The thick fog that has caused travel chaos in southern England, with hundreds of flights cancelled and many more delayed, is expected to continue into Saturday, forecasters have warned.The Met Office warned people to be aware of the risk posed by the freezing fog, with driving conditions likely to be difficult and more delays to air travel possible.That came after the UK’s biggest airport, Heathrow, reportedly said 119 flights had been cancelled, London City airport reported about 180 flight cancellations by Friday evening and Stansted airport said 33 flights had been grounded. There were also cancellations at Gatwick, Manchester and Luton airports.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A plane descending through the fog to land at Heathrow. Photograph: Justin Tallis/AFP/Getty ImagesEarlier on Friday, 17 people were injured when a coach veered off a motorway slip road in Oxfordshire and overturned.“Areas of fog have persisted in places through Friday and are expected to become more widespread and freezing in places again on Friday night and into Saturday morning,” the Met Office said.The south-east of England was expected to be the worst hit but forecasters later said the south-west of England was also likely be affected.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A dog walker in the fog at Clayfield Copse, Berkshire. Photograph: Geoffrey Swaine/Rex/Shutterstock“Fog and freezing fog patches with visibility less than 100 metres in places are expected to become more widespread again during Friday night. The fog patches are expected to slowly clear from the north and west of the area during the second half of the night, although some fog is likely to persist across parts of southern and south-eastern England into Saturday morning. The remaining fog should clear from all parts by late Saturday morning.”London City airport said there had been “significant disruption to flights all day”. A spokeswoman said: “Disruption is expected to last all evening and passengers are advised to check their flight status with their airline before they travel.”There were delays across all arrivals and departures at Luton on Friday evening, though the airport reported only two cancellations. “We advise anyone looking to travel tonight or tomorrow morning to check the status of their flight with their airline and to check in as normal unless the airline confirms the flight is cancelled.”While Stansted had seen more cancellations, a spokesman said all flights were “scheduled to operate on Saturday”. A spokesman for Heathrow airport told the BBC that the 119 cancellations may be followed by more.Ferry services to the Isle of Wight were also cancelled, with lengthy delays on some of those running, thanks to foggy conditions in the Solent.A spokesman for the operator Wightlink blamed fog and low tide for the suspension of the service between Lymington and Yarmouth.He said passengers had boarded the ferry in Yarmouth before the captain made the decision that it was not safe to travel, so they disembarked. “We are just keeping an eye on the weather at the moment to see how soon we can actually start sailing again.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fog settles during a match between Yeovil Town and Portsmouth in Yeovil. Photograph: Harry Trump/Getty ImagesServices between Portsmouth and Fishbourne had delays of up to two and a half hours because of the restricted visibility. Red Funnel services between Southampton and East Cowes were delayed by up to an hour.Brighton and Hove Albion’s home match against Cardiff City was called off because of the poor visibility. The club tweeted: “Match postponed due to fog: The match as been called off after consultation between match officials and both clubs.”A statement on the club’s website added: “Further information, including details of the rearranged game, will be confirmed in due course.”Fulham FC’s match against Reading was also abandoned because of the fog. Fulham Football Club (@FulhamFC)UPDATE: The decision to call the match off was apparently due to the fact that neither linesman was able to see the full width of the pitch.December 30, 2016