Mistletoe brings green life to the bare trees of winter and is a symbol of fertility and renewal in the darkest days of the year.Mistletoe gains part of the nutrition it needs through stealing nutrients and water from its host plant. In the case of the european Mistletoe (Viscum album), apple, hawthorn and poplar trees are the preferred hosts, but it is known to grow on many other species too. It gains the nutrients and water it needs by both photosynthesising and by sending specialised roots called haustoria deep into its host tree’s vascular tissue. In the garden mistletoe is not the easiest plant to establish, but if you follow certain rules you may be able to get some going on an apple tree or hawthorn. The seed must be fresh, as it has a short viability period (about four weeks).Once rubbed onto the bark of a tree it needs to be protected from the hungry beaks of birds such as blue tits and great tits. You can do this by making a small cage of chicken wire around the area with the seeds. It can take anything up to four years for the seedlings appear. It needs to be sown on the younger branches of a healthy tree as here its root can penetrate the bark more easily.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A mat of purple toothwort flowering at the base of a tree is a sight to behold. Photograph: Chris ThorogoodWith more than 4000 known parasitic species of plants, mistletoe is certainly not the only parasite worth trying in your garden, and some are easier to grow. In particular, there is an amazing family of plants called the Orobanchaceae that contains more than 90 different genera (only three of which are not parasitic). Some of them make excellent garden plants if you can provide the right conditions and hosts to allow them to establish themselves.Yellow rattles (Rhinanthus sp.), eyebrights (Euphrasia sp.) and Indian paintbrushes (Castilleja sp.) are all hemiparasitic (like mistletoe), but they attach themselves to the roots of grasses, not trees They are important in helping to create those longed-for wildflower rich meadow landscapes that have become so popular in gardens. By weakening the grasses on which they live, they allow other flowering plants a chance among the sward, while adding their brightly coloured flowers to the overall tapestry of the meadow. Louseworts (Pedicularis sp) are also worth trying to find, although only a few have ever been offered by UK nurseries. With well over 300 species to choose from, they are an incredible and rewarding genus to try to grow. I first encountered Pedicularis sylvatica as a child on the upland moors of Wales and it has remained one of my favourite UK native species ever since. A seemingly much more sinister group of plants, the holoparasites, get all their nutrition from their host plant, producing no chlorophyll themselves. Sometimes they can even live out their entire life inside their host, only showing themselves when they flower.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ivy broomrape is one of the most seductive of the plant parasites. Photograph: Chris ThorogoodPurple toothwort (Lathraea clandestina), also in the Orobanchaceae, prefers to attach itself to the roots of willow and alder but will grow happily on a range of hosts. It can take 10 years to flower if grown from seed but can also be introduced to a garden by being transplanted if you are quick about it. To see a mat of this plant in full flower at the base of a tree is quite a sight to behold.But true broomrapes (Orobanche and Cystanche sp) are in my opinion the most seductive of these vampires of the plant world. Looking like tatty orchids, they come in the most unusual range of colours from bright yellow through to muted burned tones and the most crystal clear of whites. As they lack leaves, they seem to stand out in a way that few other plants do in a garden. Some, like the ivy broomrape (Orobanche hederae), are little trouble to grow, but be careful with others, as some species can be problematic for agricultural crops and while not killing their host (as this would kill themselves) they can cause severe reduction in crop productivity. It is with this warning that I leave you to mull growing some of these most unusual of plants, whose lives are so attached to the lives of others, and to think about the mistletoe above your heads and the incredible feat of evolution that allows some plants this strange strategy for survival. 