It was opened by the Queen. She didn’t say what she thought about the giant spider in the entrance hall, or the fact that spider had been made by a woman who was 15 years older than her. She didn’t ask how an 80-year-old could make a bronze spider that was 30ft high. When the Queen opened Tate Modern, in 2000, she didn’t say what she thought of the art. An awful lot of the art makes you feel you are seeing copies of things you have seen many times before If the Queen were on hand today to open Tate Modern’s new extension – a 10-storey “twisted pyramid” costing £260m – she would see another giant spider, and a lot of square tubes and some wooden trellises hanging on a ceiling to make Pavilion Suspended in a Room. She would also see a building that twists and turns and is full of light and space, a building which has bricks arranged in a pattern that allows light to shine through it at night. She would see a kind of palace of modern art.In the 16 years since it opened, Tate Modern has had more than four million visitors a year. That’s an awful lot of people at a time when almost anything to do with art is thought to be too rarefied for mainstream television.Tate Modern has become a place to go to, and a place to be seen. As soon as you walk over the bridge that was once wobbly, and into a giant industrial space that now seems like the godfather of all those “artisan” cafes that try to look like old warehouses, you can feel yourself being wrapped in a cloak of what you can really only call “cool”. You are hip! You are curious! You are at the cutting edge!      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Art has changed.’ Marcel Duchamp’s Fountain at the Tate Modern in London. Photograph: Graham Turner for the GuardianYou will gaze at square tubes and trellises, and stroke your chin and nod your head. And when you catch the eye of another person nodding, you might just smile, because a lot of people wouldn’t understand those tubes. And you have to admit that it makes you feel as if you’re part of an intellectual elite.Art has changed. We all know it has. It changed with Duchamp, of course, and the urinal he called Fountain; and with Yves Klein’s attempt to leap out of a window; and Carl Andre’s pile of bricks. But when it really changed in Britain was when Charles Saatchi opened a gallery in 1985, and when he started buying art by artists who will now for ever be known as Young British Artists, who put fried eggs on a table, or pickled sharks in glass cases, or displayed beds with dirty sheets.In 1997, these artists showed their work in an exhibition titled Sensation. The exhibition – of work all owned by Saatchi – included a painting of the Moors murderer Myra Hindley, mannequins that had penises instead of noses, and a head made with the artist’s own frozen blood. “There will,” said a sign at the entrance of the exhibition, “be works of art on display in the Sensation exhibition which some people may find offensive.” You can say that again. But the visitors flowed in.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Louise Bourgeois’s giant spider made me feel like an ant on the face of the Earth.’ Photograph: Martin Godwin for the GuardianCharles Saatchi was an ad man. He knew about the power of the brand. He also knew how to create a market. And boy, did he create a market. Artists who had raged against capitalism became multimillionaires and started moaning about tax. Hedge funders, who can read a balance sheet and sniff a good investment, hovered like vultures over their work. The old questions about art were starting to be forgotten. The only one that mattered was: what is it worth?This art, the art that now fills so many of our galleries, is usually trying to convey some thought in the artist’s head. A catalogue will tell you that the artist is trying to “interrogate” something, or “question” something, or “disrupt” something, and you begin to wonder why the artist is so keen to “subvert traditional hierarchies” when the whole system seems to have served so many artists rather well.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Olafur Eliasson’s giant sun had me lying on the ground and gazing in awe.’ Photograph: Peter Macdiarmid/Reuters/CorbisSome of this art is good. Some of it isn’t. Some of it makes you think. Some of it makes you yawn. Some of it makes you think again, and look again, and feel things you haven’t felt for a while. But an awful lot of it doesn’t. An awful lot of it makes you feel you are seeing copies of things you have seen many times before.I have seen work at Tate Modern that has made me cry. Rothko’s Seagram murals made me cry. Matisse’s Cut-Outs – so vital and colourful and fresh – made me want to yell that I was glad to be alive. Olafur Eliasson’s giant sun had me lying on the ground and gazing in awe. Louise Bourgeois’s giant spider made me feel like an ant on the face of the Earth. But you have to wade through an awful lot of dross to find the art that hits you in the heart.Tate Modern has done a wonderful thing in getting tens of millions of people to come and look at contemporary art. It has made it popular. It has made it fashionable. But let’s remember that it takes more than a great gallery to make good art. Let’s remember, in fact, that a giant spider can be beautiful and a tube can be – well, just a tube.