There is a spring-like buoyancy in the air and the rolling countryside of south Warwickshire is filled with the see-sawing song of a great tit. A wood pigeon clatters through the trees where buzzards are nesting, sparrowhawks dash, and red kites float. When James Macdonald Lockhart moved to the Cotswolds five years ago, there were no red kites. Now these “least linear of raptors”, which spend their time “unravelling imaginary balls of string in the air” as Lockhart puts it in Raptor, his beautifully written first book, are another charismatic presence in his local patch.Many birds of prey, like nature writers, are thriving. Yet both are subject to surprising hostility, too. So it is with some trepidation that Lockhart is entering both arenas – writing an account of his journey through Britain in search of breeding raptors. “I feel quite anxious,” he says. “Are people going to be reading it, writing about it? It feels quite precarious.”When it comes to how his book will be received, Lockhart may have a better idea than most because he is himself something of a rare animal: a literary agent who has become a writer. Literary agents are (unfairly) characterised as rapacious hawks in the mousey world of publishing but, softly spoken and gentle, Lockhart is the least predatory kind of person you could imagine.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A rough-legged buzzard. Photograph: Rex/ShutterstockOne third of the Antony Harwood agency – whose clients include Alan Hollinghurst, AL Kennedy and George Monbiot – Lockhart says he enjoys helping authors get their book ideas into shape, but for many years – he is 40 – he has also nursed quiet ambitions for his own writing. For a while, he wrote in secret. “It was more superstition than anything,” he says. I sense a shudder when I ask if he became his own agent. “I thought it would be better to have someone who could tell me when I was messing up.” Lockhart’s love of birds began during a childhood mostly spent in Scotland’s Ochil hills. On holiday on the Isle of Lewis, he spotted a red-throated diver and persuaded his mum to walk out in the rain the next morning to admire it. “I was fascinated by this bird and wanted to show other people. That’s what the book is – sharing this experience. There are extraordinarily beautiful birds out there.”Books have been as influential on Lockhart as real birds. His great-grandfather, Seton Gordon, was a renowned ornithologist, who studied and photographed golden eagles in the Highlands. “His books were always around,” he says. Another early influence was Mike Tomkies, a former showbiz reporter who wrote about living wild in the Highlands. “I loved the drama of his life in this remote place with pine martens and black-throated divers.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A red kite. Photograph: Rex/ShutterstockGordon was “a big presence in the family” and Lockhart’s granny told vivid stories of their adventures in the field. While memoir is a familiar component of nature-writing, Raptor flies in another direction – towards 19th-century naturalist William MacGillivray. He discovered the overlooked ornithological legend during long days of research in Oxford’s Alexander Library of Ornithology.“There was something about his voice I really warmed to. I felt kinship with him.”At the beginning of Raptor, we encounter MacGillivray in 1819, aged 23, resembling the poet John Clare: complaining he has “no peace of mind” and about to embark on a long walk, from Aberdeen to London. Lockhart maps MacGillivray’s account of this eventful expedition against his own journey from Orkney to Devon and the raptors that inhabit these landscapes. Lockhart seeks merlin in the Flow Country, Montagu’s harriers in the Fens and peregrines in Coventry cathedral. He believes MacGillivray suffered a double misfortune: eclipsed as a scientist by the brilliance of Darwin and as an ornithological writer by William Yarrell, whose rival History of British Birds was more reader-friendly. Contemporaries judged MacGillivray too poetic and affected. “They didn’t like his ornithological digressions.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eurasian sparrowhawk. Photograph: Rex/ShutterstockToday, fine writing about birds is more popular than ever but with that popularity comes controversy. Mark Cocker, a superb field naturalist, has criticised many nature writers for failing to tackle the environmental crisis in Britain. Books such as William Atkins’s The Moor, Cocker argues, fail to address the game industry’s exploitation of moorland or its persecution of hen harriers. Other critics have dismissed modern nature writing as an excursionary, urban literature, curiously disconnected from its ostensible subject: wild nature.Lockhart does write about the illegal killing of hen harriers and the poignant extinction of the sea eagle (and its subsequent human-assisted recovery) and uses science to dispel prejudices that still define our conflicted relationship with raptors, such as the false perception that the sparrowhawk is causing the disappearance of songbirds. He argues that we must let these birds back into our landscapes but does so very gently. “Some writers can write polemical work that address this head-on and that’s great,” says Lockhart, citing Monbiot as an example. “I didn’t want the book to be a polemic. There are people who can do that much much better, but it’s all there – the politics of it, the frustration.”In his day job as literary agent, Lockhart represents another new nature writer who also writes vividly about Scotland, Amy Liptrot. Her debut, The Outrun, is also published this winter. What happens if both Lockhart and his client are shortlisted for the same prize? “Amy will get it,” he says quickly. “She’s just got this voice which is so enviable. She’s been a delight to represent.” • Raptor by James Macdonald Lockhart is published by Fourth Estate (£16.99). Click here to buy it for £13.59.