Caught in the crossfire between angry and desperate farmers and furious animal rights campaigners, Caroline Spelman deftly dodged a bullet today. The badgers did not.The cull she is "strongly minded to back" will see many tens of thousands shot in England the next four years, in an attempt to tackle the terrible problem of TB in cattle. But, with a deftness utterly lacking in earlier fiascos over selling off of the nation's public forests and banning wild animals in circuses, she has created just enough policy armour to deflect political fire.But that is not to say the policy is the best one, or even truly science led. Moreover, that policy armour will not protect her from the attacks of anti-cull protesters and it must be a serious doubt whether the culls will ever actually take place. In the protesters armoury is legal challenge - seen as "almost inevitable" by ministers - which halted the proposed badger cull in Wales. The other weapon is protest, which will now be focused entirely on two initial trial sites next June, the locations of which will be made public. Trying to police a confrontation in the dark between sharpshooters with high velocity rifles and determined protesters is going to be a nightmare. So what is the policy armour? Spelman will make farmers pay all the cull costs upfront into an escrow account, ensuring that they do not drop out of the culling, which past trials have shown would make things worse not better. There will be another consultation, always useful political protection, on how the groups of farmers will be licensed to kill. And there will be two trials of the free shooting of badgers to ensure it is humane - one clean shot - and effective - wiping out at least 70% of the badgers. Those are genuine and sensible shifts from the initial plans.But the coalition government is on stickier ground when it comes to the science: it pledged a "science-led" approach. First, even after the pilot studies of free shooting, there will still be no scientific evidence that such culling reduces TB, given that the "peturbation" effects will not be measured.Peturbation is the disruption by culling of badgers' social groups which is known to lead to higher TB rates in surrounding areas. Spelman's chief scientific adviser, Professor Bob Watson, acknowledged this, telling me it was an "expert judgement" that the peturbation effects would be no worse than with other killing methods. That's opinion not science, in my view. And don't forget that all of the authors of the 10-year trial instigated by Lord John Krebs think culling is an ineffective method of tackling TB.The other science problem is that Spelman had already all but killed plan B: vaccination. She said this was the solution everyone wanted, but had already cancelled five of the six vaccination trials set up by the previous government. The last government said an oral vaccine for badgers would be available by 2015: this government says they now don't know when - or even if - one will be ready. I find that hard to swallow when a paper has been published showing success in Ireland.The problem of bovine TB is indisputably a horribly difficult one. About 25,000 cattle were slaughtered last year, causing real suffering to farmers, and costing taxpayers £90m. Spelman has given farmers, a powerful and organised lobby, what they have long wanted and done enough in the short term to avoid the political trapdoor that would surely have opened if another forestry-style farce had unfolded.But the measures will cost farmers many millions (see below), and more than they will save. If all goes well, the TB incidence in cattle will be cut by about 16%. That's not a great return, but could help stem the rising tide of TB in specific hotspots.Rosie Woodroffe, one of the authors of the 10-year trial, remains unconvinced: "The culling plan is a very expensive distraction from really dealing with the problem," she told me. "Encouraging farmers to waste their money on something that might make things worse is not a good idea. Instead these enormous sums could be invested in increased biosecurity on farms and vaccine development."That is the path Spelman has chosen not to tread, instead choosing to push through free-shooting culls. Many thousands of badgers will be dead before we know who was right.Numbers update on cull costs and number of badgers likely to be killed (posted 1830): The cost of a cull over eight years will be £56m to farmers and £36m to the government, I calculate, a total of £92m. That does not include legal costs if the cull is challenged in the courts, or policing costs for protests. The total dwarfs the £20m over available for vaccination research. (My working is below.)The maximum number of badgers killed per year will be between 23,330 and 35,000, I calculate, using Defra figures. Over eight years of culling, between 70,000 and 105,000 badgers will die.Cost workings: I used Defra's annual cost estimates for a free-shooting cull over 350 kilometres square for farmers (£1.4m) and the government (£0.9m for monitoring and licensing) and assumed 10 areas in year one, another 10 in year two, another 10 in year three and another 10 in year four, each of which lasts for four years, meaning over eight years 40 areas are culled.Badger death workings: I used Defra's estimates of 1000-1500 badgers culled per 150 kilometres squared area and an average cull area of 350 kilometres squared. I then assumed, as before, 10 areas in year one, another 10 in year two, another 10 in year three and another 10 in year four, each of which lasts for four years, meaning over eight years 40 areas are culled.