Hot off of earning 22 Emmy nominations and a boatload of critical acclaim for its dramatisation of the trial of OJ Simpson, anticipation is high for the next season of Ryan Murphy’s FX anthology series American Crime Story.As previously announced, the second season will offer an in-depth examination of 2005’s Hurricane Katrina. Like The People vs OJ, the second season will “turn the lens on America”, according to the show’s producer Brad Simpson, but it will be “tonally and thematically incredibly different”. The People v OJ Simpson finale review: racism, sexism and celebrity dazzle Speaking on Tuesday at FX’s Television Critics Association panel in Los Angeles, Simpson confirmed that a batch of writers are already working on the Katrina storyline. “It’s going to be about the intensity of what it was like to be there on the ground – and also the bigger crime, that Katrina was something that was predictable.”In an interview with the Hollywood Reporter, Murphy added that writers are using Douglas Brinkley’s best-selling book The Great Deluge as the chief source material, while stressing that a lot of the series will focus on “amazing stories of [people] coming together.“We’re laying into what do you do when you’re in a city and your government has abandoned you?” said Murphy. “You get out by climbing up and pulling up people with you, and to a large degree that’s what the miniseries is about. It’s not just what happened but heroic stories about people surviving – or in some cases, dying helping others.”Because of the subject matter’s sprawling nature, Murphy anticipated that the second season will boast three to five more episodes than The People vs OJ Simpson, which ran for 10.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The cast of The People vs OJ Simpson: American Crime Story Composite: handout“You’re following a cast of characters from before the storm hits to its aftermath, and that’s a big story,” explained Murphy.As for the cast, no one has been confirmed as of yet – although both Murphy and Simpson did intimate that some of the actors from The People vs OJ Simpson would be returning, as well as some “famous people”. Among the key roles that have to be cast are George W Bush, secretary of state Condoleezza Rice, New Orleans mayor Ray Nagin and Louisiana governor Kathleen Blanco. The People vs OJ Simpson featured, most notably, John Travolta, Cuba Gooding Jr, David Schwimmer and frequent Murphy collaborator Sarah Paulson.Murphy also revealed that he and his producers are already sifting through stories for future seasons.Regarding Murphy’s other hit anthology series for FX, American Horror Story, FX CEO John Landgraf said the theme for the sixth season won’t emerge until the show is brought back in September. Lady Gaga, Angela Bassett and Cheyenne Jackson are officially confirmed to return.Season two of American Crime Story is slated to return to FX in 2017.