Can you measure the quality of art? Well, no. You can’t take out a ruler and discover how good a play is, though you can measure things that hover around it, such as how many people came to see it and how much it cost. Instead, deciding what is good is a human and subjective thing – and who gets to decide is a tender and touchy subject. When, recently, it became clear that Arts Council England was intending to make data collection on the quality of a work compulsory for the largest organisations it funds – rolling out a “Quality Metrics” programme – there was an outcry. “Horseshit,” tweeted artist Tim Etchells. Composer Thomas Adès wrote: “Tell me this is a hoax. What happened to human opinions, judgment, discernment? Knowledge, taste? Not enough likes?” There were fears that the arts council was about to visit on England an Orwellian scenario in which funding decisions would be based on algorithms and boxes ticked.The move fits into a long and agonising narrative of assessing art. In the commercial world, the bottom line is the ultimate arbiter, and cash returns may – or may not – run in tandem with quality. Publicly funded art, on the other hand, has questions of accountability to answer, and is supposed to aspire to be good.Or at least it is now: the barometer of what kind of art should be publicly supported has swung in different directions over the past decades. In the early days of the Blair government, “an avalanche of arts” was promised by culture secretary Tessa Jowell, with a £75m uplift in funding. In return, the arts in England were faced with a targets culture in which organisations were judged against their contribution to such agendas as education and social justice.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Citizens Theatre production of Endgame at HOME, Manchester. Photograph: Tim MorozzoIn response, her successor, James Purnell, commissioned the former boss of the Edinburgh international festival, Brian McMaster, to tackle the subject. In 2008, he argued that the “excellence” of the artistic work itself was the ultimate goal of cultural organisations, and ought to be the principal criterion for public funders. The question of what was good, McMaster suggested, should be settled through “self-assessment and peer review” by “people with the confidence and authority to make tough decisions”. The audience was not part of this calculation. His report, Supporting Excellence in the Arts, was subtitled From Measurement to Judgement. Wise, discerning people would discriminate; good art made by good people would be supported.Now, it seems, the arts in England are back to measurement. But the impetus behind Quality Metrics comes from the arts world itself, and relates specifically to the perceived inadequacy of being judged only by the (allegedly) wise and discerning. Dave Moutrey, chief executive of the HOME arts centre in Manchester, was the first to explore the possibility of Quality Metrics in England. In his previous role as the boss of Cornerhouse, one of the institutions that came together to form HOME, he found that “people who weren’t properly engaged were making judgments about us”. In short, the wise and discerning people – whether arts council “relationship officers” or peers – weren’t up to snuff, whether through lack of time, lack of real expertise, or bias. Furthermore, Moutrey wanted to factor in the audience’s opinions. “We are all publicly accountable,” he says. “I have a problem with the sense of privilege and entitlement that can come to some funded arts organisations. If you look at what’s happening to, say, Sure Start children’s centres, that attitude is becoming less and less tenable.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Passion by Streetwise Opera and the Sixteen. Photograph: Graeme CooperMoutrey discovered that a similar discomfort in Western Australia had led arts organisations to develop a set of metrics that allowed them to gather fairly nuanced audience reactions. This data was useful ammunition when the arts were arguing their case with government. And so he, with colleagues in other Manchester organisations, applied for grants from Arts Council England (a total of £75,000) to develop their own metrics and test them locally.The idea was that audience members would be asked to rate a work on a series of criteria, such as challenge, captivation, relevance and rigour. At the same time, the organisations themselves would rate the work, as would peers. That would provide a “triangulation”, meaning arts organisations would be able to test what they thought they were doing against what their audiences thought they were doing. John Summers, chief executive of the Hallé orchestra, was involved in those early stages. “If we are planning with all the integrity and belief that we are,” he says, “and that isn’t transmitting to our audiences, then we ought to know about it. After all, we’re assessed to death by the arts council on things like social reach and penetration. What’s wrong with being assessed on the most important thing we do? I don’t mind it.” At the same time, the idea was that data could be aggregated and shared between all those involved, and scrutinised across and between art forms.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   SIr Mark Elder conducts the Hallé orchestra. Photograph: Russell HartIn 2014, a grant of £300,000 was made to Counting What Counts, the company that had worked in Western Australia and on the Manchester project, to expand the work and conduct a national pilot among 150 organisations. This grant was controversial, since it sidestepped a public procurement process, granting public funds to a commercial company that could potentially stand to gain from any national adoption of Quality Metrics, not to mention if they sold similar systems overseas. But Simon Mellor, head of arts at the arts council, insists public cash went only on building the open-source aspects of the project and on supporting the national pilot. He argues that it would have been impracticable to put the work out to tender since the Manchester group had already been working with the company. An independent report assessing the pilot found, amid some serious misgivings about certain aspects, that 74% of organisations found Quality Metrics “somewhat valuable” or “very valuable”. The result is that Arts Council England is, from 1 April 2018 making Quality Metrics mandatory for those organisations granted above £250,000 per year, and will soon open a public procurement process for the company that will roll it out – which may, or may not, be Counting What Counts.John Knell, a director of Counting What Counts, admits there has been “fear and loathing” of Quality Metrics in certain quarters. The darkest anxiety is that it will be used to construct league tables and, as cultural historian Robert Hewison puts it, to “automate aesthetics”. Andrew Bishop, director of commercial operations at London’s Battersea Arts Centre, says the question is: “How does the arts council intend to use it for future funding? How does it intend to compare results across venues?”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Composer and conductor Thomas Adès. Photograph: Eamonn McCabe for the GuardianMellor’s answer sounds simple: “We are not going to use Quality Metrics as a driver in funding decisions. That’s not going to happen.” At least, he adds, not as a “primary” driver; that is, he says, he expects arts organisations will end up wanting to use data they have collected to strengthen their case for funding. But he adds: “It’s not about monitoring – it’s about arts organisations getting better at evaluating their own performance.” Knell says Quality Metrics should not be about constructing league tables: “That would be comparing apples, pears and pineapples”. Instead, he says, “the data will be a starting point for a richer conversation about the public value of art – a noisy, interesting debate. I don’t see anything to fear about that.”Mellor also says Quality Metrics will be free for arts organisations to use (though there will be costs associated with manpower; and if individual bodies want to customise the system, adding their own questions, that will almost certainly require payment). Of course, the money will come from somewhere: the arts council will pay the company that ends up rolling out Quality Metrics, and there will be disagreement about whether that is sensible use of the funder’s money.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dave Moutrey, chief executive of the HOME arts centre, Manchester. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianSummers at the Hallé is unflustered by the principle of involving audiences in assessing quality: “We can be a bit up our own arses in the arts. We can worry more about our peers than the public.” That’s also the view of director Marcus Romer, who, in his blog, has advised colleagues to “wake up and smell the coffee” on Quality Metrics. But Summers worries about the catch-all questions to audience members being “so generic as to be meaningless”. Can asking an audience member about the “relevance” of a museum exhibition on the Anglo-Saxons be compared with the “relevance” of a new play about fracking in their area? It is a fear echoed by Bridget Rennie, co-executive producer at Streetwise Opera. Her organisation, which took part in the national pilot, will not be obliged to use Quality Metrics. She says she would be “open to using them if they’re not directly attached to funding” – but points out that using the same criteria of measurement for everything and everyone is “inherently crude”.Clearly, measuring quality in the arts is, if not actually impossible, then fraught with danger. Playwright Dan Rebellato sums up the problem: “It’s a conflict between facts and values. There are lots of useful things the arts council can and should do about quantitative data – who is involved and engaged, where they come from and so on. But it’s obvious that you can’t measure art qualitatively.” The fact is that Quality Metrics do not actually measure what is good; they measure what people perceive to be good, at a particular moment. But then again, allowing audiences a say – along with the organisations themselves and their (ideally) wise and discerning peers – is, to many, not just common sense but also morally responsible. And peer review on its own has many problems – “logrolling and backscratching”, in Hewison’s words. As Bridget Rennie points out: “I don’t envy the arts council. Its stated aim is ‘great art for everyone’ – but the ‘everyone’ bit is much easier to assess than the ‘great’ part.”