James Franco’s forthcoming remake of the cult TV film Mother, May I Sleep with Danger? will include lesbian vampires.With A Deadly Adoption, has Lifetime finally become self-aware? The actor-writer-director announced his plan to revamp the thriller last year but, according to Vulture, he has now revealed how his film will differ from the 1996 original.The update will see a college-age woman surprise her mother, played by Tori Spelling, who originally starred as the daughter, with a mysterious new female love interest. The film, which will premiere on the US TV network Lifetime, has been officially described as a “vampire love story that brings a whole new meaning to ‘sleeping with danger’”.Franco will also star in the film, along with Ivan Sergei, who played the dangerous boyfriend in the original. The Oscar-nominated star of 127 Hours has said that his decision to make the film was influenced by Will Ferrell and Kristen Wiig’s 2015 Lifetime drama A Deadly Adoption.“Will told me that he was actually inspired by my going on General Hospital when he made that,” Franco said earlier this year. “Then Lifetime came to me and [asked if I would] like to recreate one of their movies like Will did. I said yes, as long as I could change it a bit. It has some similar elements of the original but it’s completely revamped. You’ll have a very non-Lifetime movie on Lifetime.” The two films, along with the acclaimed reality TV satire Unreal, are part of a new trend for the channel, which is traditionally associated with cliched TV movies such as Killer Hair, Inspector Mom and A Woman Scorned: The Betty Broderick Story.Production has already wrapped on Mother, May I Sleep With Danger? and the film will be shown in June in the US. It is one of many projects in which Franco is involved that are set to be released in 2016, including the Hollywood-set comedy Zeroville starring Megan Fox and Seth Rogen; the thriller Black Dog, Red Dog with Chloe Sevigny; the Tommy Wiseau biopic The Disaster Artist; the John Steinbeck adaptation In Dubious Battle; and gay porn drama King Cobra with Alicia Silverstone.