This has never been a good season for animals, but two or three centuries ago it was rather worse. Christmas dinner was preceded by artisanal cruelty in all its terrible variety. Poultry, for instance: the less they ran or fluttered about, the fatter they got, so geese would be nailed by their webbed feet to the floor, while chickens and game birds were confined to windowless cells, sometimes after their keeper had taken the extra precaution of blinding them or cutting off their legs.Mammals were, literally, a tougher proposition. Popular belief said that meat was best tenderised while it was still alive, so calves and pigs were whipped to death with knotted ropes, and bulls killed only after dogs had baited them. Succulent Dorset lambs, according to the historian Keith Thomas, arrived at the Christmas tables of the Georgian gentry only after a lengthy imprisonment in “dark little cabins”.A desire for paler meat led to longer deaths. A calf’s executioner, having cut the animal at the neck, would let it bleed for a while and then staunch the wound for a day to let death come slowly. As for turkeys, the custom was to snip a vein inside their mouths and hang them upside down, so that their blood dripped out little by little. The upside-down position remains a constant of turkey slaughter, though the process today is industrial, possibly less painful and necessarily quicker.Somewhere around 10 million of the birds will be eaten this Christmas in Britain, ending their brief lives suspended by their legs from a production line that plunges them head-first into the electrified stunning baths, and then to the slaughterhouse workers who slash open their carotid arteries. One stroke usually does it.Ignorance was bliss – but is it time to go vegan? It would be wrong to think of our unease as new. Abstinence from meat has been a feature of Hinduism and its various offshoots in the east for perhaps 3,000 years. Somewhat later in Europe, the philosopher Pythagoras refused meat because he believed that souls could migrate between animals and human beings; eating animal flesh was therefore no better than cannibalism.In England, the foundations of modern vegetarianism were laid in 1683, when a Christian mystic and dietary reformer, Thomas Tryon, published a remarkably modern-sounding book, The Way to Health, Long Life and Happiness, that asked its readers to consider: “How shall they but bestial grow, / That thus to feed on beasts are willing? / Or why should they a long life know, / Who daily practice KILLING?” For the poet Alexander Pope, 30 years later, nothing could be “more shocking or horrid” than the prospect of a kitchen “covered with blood and filled with the cries of creatures expiring in tortures”.Nevertheless, our unease did nothing to stop us. More and more animal flesh was eaten. Bread and cheese kept the poor alive in 18th-century England, but the middle and upper classes stuffed themselves with roasts, steaks and chops – a morning, noon and night gluttony that turned England into the most carnivorous country in Europe and left many among its wealthier population corpulent and ill. In his excellent history of vegetarianism, The Heretic’s Feast, Colin Spencer suggests that the consequent revulsion against the obese and the drunk, slobbering under their cockeyed wigs, made the idea of a strict vegetable and water diet almost fashionable.The “almost” is important. People such as Benjamin Franklin who took it up usually put it down again, seeing it as a cure, the equivalent of two weeks’ rehab in the Priory, rather than a lifetime commitment. But the arguments for abstinence were developing. Percy Bysshe Shelley, who was probably the cause’s most celebrated advocate until George Bernard Shaw and Mahatma Gandhi came along, added economic efficiency to a list that already included human wellbeing and the humane treatment of animals.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Meat-eaters, you all secretly hate yourselves“The quantity of nutritious vegetable matter consumed in fattening the carcass of an ox would afford 10 times the sustenance [to people],” the poet wrote in 1812, publicising a proposition that is increasingly relevant to a world in which the process known as meatification turns traditionally plant-eating societies into new markets for hamburgers and replaces rain forests with cattle ranches.When the Vegetarian Society was founded in 1847, the anti-meat cause took the name we now know it by and began to think of itself as a movement. At its first annual general meeting in Manchester, then the world’s most radical city, 31 of its members recorded a lifelong abstinence from “flesh food”, while another 12 said they hadn’t touched it for 30 to 40 years. The banquet that followed included two kinds of omelette, four kinds of fritter and plum pudding. The toasts were drunk in water.Punch magazine thought the whole affair absurd, and doubted the banquet’s “mixture of messes” could promote health. A mainstream viewpoint had been fixed. Hostile caricature followed English vegetarianism wherever it went over the following 150 years, so much so that London’s most popular vegetarian restaurant in the 1970s boldly went by the name Cranks. I ate at its plain wood tables regularly.All that has changed, at least in London, where, according to the British Social Attitudes survey, a quarter of British vegetarians live. The sandwich chain Pret a Manger opened a vegetarian branch this year and plans a second. Vegetarian restaurants now go by names such as Vanilla Black. Jane Muir, the owner of Mildreds, was determined on a title that carried no suggestions of plain living or Mother Earth, and named her restaurants after a favourite American film noir, Mildred Pierce, with Joan Crawford as the eponymous heroine.Stop telling me not to eat meat: we should all be flexitarians | Toby Moses Not everyone who eats there is a vegetarian, but like many similar places its success has been underpinned by dietary groups that vegetarianism has helped create. First, the growing number of vegans drawn to the logic of abstaining from animal products as well as animals – because the dairy industry depends on the slaughter of cattle and at the same time contributes to the methane emissions of cattle overall, which are estimated to make up of 18% of greenhouses gases.Second, the “meat reducers” – the people (often men over 60) who’ve been told by their doctors, partners and children to eat less of it, or reached the decision to live longer on no other advice but their own. Both groups are overwhelmingly middle class. Like obesity, unrestrained meat consumption (fry-ups, burgers, kebab wraps) has changed sides, and now suggests poverty rather than wealth.Am I a vegetarian? Of course – anyone with half an imagination must be. The question really is: how often am I a vegetarian? Not so long ago I could look over the hedge into the plaintive eyes of a young calf, resolve to go meatless and then order a steak pie from the butcher an hour or two later. That has changed. A day or two would now be needed to separate the two events, and in any case the steak pies have become rather few. We hardly ever cook meat at home, but I’m omnivorous as the guest of others. A good life and a humane death: these considerations of provenance influence the decision of which animals’ flesh to buy, but the charge of hypocrisy hangs over them.Last Christmas we had a nut roast – an item I’d be delighted never to see again. This Christmas, to my surprise, the current vegetarian in chief has suggested fillet steaks and dauphinoise potatoes. To be looked forward to: Christmas comes but once a year, and with it an extra portion of cruelty.