HBO has confirmed that a team of writers and Game of Thrones creator George RR Martin are working on ideas for spin-off shows that could see the fantasy show’s reign as the king of prestige TV continue for years.Speculation of spin-offs has increased as the show, the most watched in HBO’s history, heads into its final seasons, and the cable company confirmed on Thursday that four writers are currently working on offshoot ideas.Tales of Tyrion: what could a Game of Thrones spinoff series look like? George RR Martin, author of the original books that the show is based on, will join a team of writers including Kong: Skull Island scribe Max Borenstein, Brian Helgeland (Mystic River), Jane Goldman (Kingsman, Kick-Ass), and Mad Men writer Carly Wray. A spokesperson for HBO said: “We’ll take as much or as little time as the writers need and, as with all our development, we will evaluate what we have when the scripts are in.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Game of Thrones season seven teaser trailerGame of Thrones showrunners Dan Weiss and David Benioff, would continue as executive producers but would not continue the writing duties they have at the moment.At this year’s SXSW festival in Austin, Texas, Benioff suggested that he and Weiss would not be involved in any spin-offs if they were to occur. “I think HBO might well do one,” he said. “And I’m looking forward to watching it. I think it’ll be great, but I think it’s better for them to get new blood in with new visions.”Martin meanwhile has been alluding to the potential of spin-offs and prequels recently, telling Entertainment Weekly last year that: “There are 8m stories in Westeros .… and even more in Essos and the lands beyond. A whole world full of stories, waiting to be told.”During last summer’s Television Critics Association HBO’s programming president Casey Bloys indicated that offshoot series were a distinct possibility.“We’ve talked about it. It’s something I’m not opposed to. But, of course, it has to make sense creatively,” said Bloys. “It’s a pretty intense production. They’re about to start production soon, but I’m open to it. The guys weren’t opposed to it, but there is no concrete plans, or anything like that at this point.”