Where does your interest in exploring nature come from?I grew up in a swamp in Louisiana. It’s beautiful in a scary way. It’s nature that’s really ready to take over, forceful and full of creatures that are not pleasant to be around such as large rats and alligators. It’s also very hot. As a child I was enchanted with that world. I think I’m more conscious of what I fear than I was as a young person – irrationality, territoriality, envy Several stories have that interlacing of beauty and terror…Yes, and it does come directly out of that environment, especially some of the areas outside of the city where water and earth are so interchangeable – you can’t help but notice the beauty. I’ve always had a sense of that spooky, marvellous world.Tell me about the title, Sea Lovers…The mermaid in the title story is the real sea lover. I’m terrified of the sea, I think with good reason, because it’s rising. When I did research for The Ghost of Mary Celeste I also read a lot about 19th-century shipping and all my fears were confirmed. Conrad talks about how many thousands of people disappeared at sea.Do you often draw on your fears in your fiction?I love that notion that you have to go to the underworld and find the story and bring it out. I think I’m more conscious of what I fear than I was as a young person – irrationality, territoriality, envy, a desire for revenge. I find all those strong emotions dangerous and scary – so I like to write about them, and then I don’t have to have them. A couple of my longer stories have a debt to Chekhov’s The Du​e​l, especially my story The Unfinished Novel. It’s full of rage and wildness. The woman the narrator used to love and thought was going to be a writer was a failure; the idea of possibly being her was frightening to me – so I wrote about it.Much of your fiction explores inequalities of power…I teach at a women’s college and I was talking with the students about how many of their stories reflect the theme of power, and I think it’s the natural territory of any woman born on the planet. You’re bound to notice inequalities in power. People who have power often take it for granted. Those who don’t have it don’t have a chance against that sort of denial.Sign up to our Bookmarks newsletter Several of your stories compellingly explore the lives of writers and artists. What was your own journey to becoming a writer?I got a lot of rejection, but those years were definitely formative. I kept writing. I was learning a lot about writing a novel just by continuing to write novels. I was a single mum, I had a job teaching freshman compositions, or sometimes I worked in a bookstore or restaurant. It wasn’t easy, I don’t think I could do it again now, but to keep writing the novels seemed like the right thing to do and lo and behold, it was. I met Margaret Atwood in Alabama, and she wanted to see the novels and took them to Nan Talese​ [publisher at Doubleday],​ who signed me up. So it was a happy ending.Did you always want to be a writer?I wanted to be a veterinarian but I couldn’t do the science. I did write a book about a veterinarian. I write by hand, and have always enjoyed putting words down on a page – it’s always a surprise.The Ghost of the Mary Celeste by Valerie Martin – review Were you a voracious reader in childhood?I read everything I could get my hands on. My mother read to us when we were small, and so did my dad. He was a sea captain. We’d get together the books he would take on his next trip.What is your writing process?I get material from dreams sometimes – the opening of Property came from a dream. I usually find music for a book to get my brain in a tonality that I see as part of the novel. The music I listened to for Property was very unpleasant, atonal music. Whereas for Trespass it was a Brahms quintet. Some of the Sea Lovers stories are associated with music and songs too, including a great Joan Baez song, Silkie.What are the different challenges for you of writing short stories and novels?It’s similar to the difference between a string quartet and a symphony or between doing watercolours or oils. A story can still be complex, like a string quartet. After I read Chekhov I became interested in the idea of a story being able to take on not only big moral questions but big periods of time, whole lives.Sea Lovers is published by Serpent’s Tail (£8.99). Click here to buy it for £7.19