Many healthy-sounding savoury products that are also popular as snacking foods are “salt and fat traps” laden with excess calories, a health group has warned.Three-quarters of hummus products (74%) carry a so-called “traffic light” label red warning for fat, while a serving of Asda’s own-brand taramasalata was singled out for packing in as much salt as 13 Ritz crackers, according to a survey by Consensus Action on Salt and Health (Cash).Researchers analysed 210 popular chilled dips – including hummus, guacamole, salsa, tzatziki and taramasalata – sold by the major supermarkets. Taramasalata, which is made from salted or smoked cod roe, was the saltiest, with an average salt content of 1.25g per 100g, compared with tomato salsa, which was the least salty, containing an average 0.49g per 100g.The most popular dip is hummus, which is made predominantly from chickpeas. It is far from the healthiest, with not one of the 108 products in the survey carrying a green label for salt. A 100g serving of the dip contains an average of 280 calories – almost 15% of the recommended daily intake for women, Cash found. One of the saltiest hummus products was Tesco’s caramelised onion hummus (1.6g per 100g), while 100g of Marks & Spencer’s version contained 1.53g of salt – more than is found in four packets of ready salted crisps.NHS guidelines say adults should eat no more than 6g of salt a day – the equivalent of one teaspoon’s worth. However, Cash, which campaigns to raise awareness of the dangers of “hidden” salt, says overall consumption can be difficult to monitor, since three-quarters of salt consumed is already in foods such as bread, breakfast cereals and ready meals. Salt and fat content of UK dipsSource: Consensus Action on Salt and Health“Once again we demonstrate the unnecessary amounts of salt and fat being added by the food industry to what could be a healthy product,” said Prof Graham MacGregor, a professor of cardiovascular medicine at Queen Mary University of London and the chairman of Cash. “A diet high in salt leads to strokes and heart disease, the commonest cause of death in the UK.”An Asda spokesperson said: “Our customers wouldn’t be surprised that the ingredients used to make some dips, such as a traditional Greek taramasalata, are naturally higher in salt than some of our other dips. All the salt in this dip comes from cod roe ... we do not add any additional salt.”The supermarket said it takes its responsibility as a retailer seriously “and believe[s] in giving customers choice and encouraging healthy, balanced lifestyles, which is why we offer a range of products”.Hummus be joking! What eating habits do you wish you could change? Cash has called on Theresa May’s government to produce a robust obesity strategy that includes reducing salt and fat in people’s diets.“Reducing salt is the most cost-effective measure to reduce the number of people suffering, which is why it is imperative the government announces a new, robust plan for reducing salt in our diet,” said MacGregor.Sonia Pombo, a nutritionist and a campaign manager for Cash, urged shoppers to “read the label carefully and opt for healthier brands”. “Also, remember to swap unhealthy sides (crisps and biscuits etc) with vegetables, eg carrots, peppers and tomatoes, for [an] added bonus,” she added.Cash urged consumers to try to exercise portion control and avoid eating an entire tub in one go. It also advised people to choose products with less fat and salt, such as salsa or vegetable-based dips, rather than sour-cream or cheese-based versions, which are higher in fat and saturates. A healthier alternative, Cash said, is to make your own dips using plain, low-fat yogurt and fresh herbs. High levels of salt (per 100g)Tesco caramelised onion hummus – 1.6gSabra baba ganoush – 1.6gMarks & Spencer caramelised onion hummus – 1.53gMarks & Spencer taramasalata – 1.5gMoorish Baba Ghanoush-ish aubergine dip – 1.4gLow levels of salt (per 100g)Essential Waitrose reduced fat sour cream and chive dip – 0.25gThe Co-operative salsa – 0.3gTesco tzatziki – 0.4gWaitrose creamy and refreshing guacamole – 0.4gLidl red pepper hummus – 0.43g