Exciting field work and careful natural history observations are only a part of species exploration. Determining that you indeed have a species new to science is often like a good mystery with a complicated, winding plot and lots of unusual characters. Even when you have narrowed the possibilities to a single genus there is a requirement to read and understand all the descriptive literature published during or after 1758 and typically to examine type specimens to assure names are being used in compliance with the best and latest theories about what and how many species exist. The process is part Sherlock Holmes, part David Attenborough.In 2007, damaged leaves in a vineyard in north-eastern Italy revealed the presence of leafminers. In this case they were tiny caterpillars that superficially looked like the work of Holocacista rivillei, a fairly insignificant pest of grapevines and the only such leafminer of the family Heliozelidae in Europe. But something was not quite right. H rivellei larvae , like others in the family, create first a tunnel then carve out a large oval area that appears as a blotch on the leaf. This species left a narrow mine that was as long or longer than the blotch. It must have been another leafminer, but which one?In the mid-1990s, a North American species, Phyllocnistis vitegenella, had become established in Italian vineyards, but its mines are diagnostic, too. In its case the larval path is long and irregular in shape and marked by a dark line of residual frass not present in this new kind of damage.In order to confirm the moth species responsible for this attack it would prove necessary to conduct extensive field observations, allow the larvae to overwinter and emerge as adults that give additional anatomical clues, review all relevant literature on similar moths on several continents, and sequence and analyse the DNA of populations of several species.The moths that emerged in the spring were clearly members of the genus Antispila, but just as certainly neither of the two documented European species. Because the taxonomy of the genus has been neglected in recent decades, it took some time and a good deal of good detective work to sort out that the culprit was a common, but undescribed, North American species. In North America, it had long been confused with A ampelopsifoliella, a relative that feeds on virginia creeper. DNA evidence helped determine that the new species had been only recently introduced from its native North America.More than 120 species of the family are known with the largest numbers in North America and Australia. Larvae are all leafminers in trees and vines and only occasionally found in herbacious hosts. At maturity, they make an oval-shaped shield or case from the leaf in which they undergo a molt into a pre-pupa, the stage that usually overwinters in temperate regions. The grapevine family, Vitaceae, is host to nearly half of the species of the genus Antispila for which hosts are known, and about one-third of these include the grape genus Vitis.The Baker Street heroics in unravelling this story involved careful checking of what was known not only of all Antispila but also all other lepidopteran leafminers known to feed on Vitaceae. A silver spot near the tip of the front wing proved a crucial clue, as it is shared by relatively few other species. Eliminating a little-known species from Brazil and a Japanese species with larger spots, the list of suspects narrowed to the four North American species with such markings. Two were quickly eliminated due to obvious anatomical differences involving colouration of antennae and head, leaving just two possibilities.Genitalia of insects are often species-specific and moths are no exception. The genitalia of one of these American suspects, A voraginella, were very different while that of the common and widespread A ampelopsifoliella were virtually identical. The balance of evidence, with DNA playing a key role, showed that more than one species had been masquerading under the name A ampelopsifoliella, including an unnamed one that had been brought to Europe.An international collaborative team led by Dr Erik J van Nieukerken, Netherlands Centre for Biodiversity, Leiden, and Dr David L Wagner, University of Connecticut, ultimately solved the mystery and the two lead authors described Antispila oinophylla as a species new to science, common in its native North America, and recently introduced as a pest to Italy. Recognising the species is easier in Europe where the only other moths of similar size and colouration lack both the silver spots on the forewings and a white head. A few moths of another family, Elachistidae, appear similar at first glance but are easily distinguished by their upcurved palpi, longer antennae, and more elongated body shape.Solving the mystery was not helped by the fact that types are missing for three of the four known North American species associated with Vitaceae. In their publication, the authors do a tremendous job presenting the knowledge that does exist and summarising what is known of all species potentially confused with the new one. This case emphasises the importance of supporting taxonomic revisions and monographs that make such identifications much easier. It is also an example of fine biological detective work, from its mining of the literature to its use of the latest DNA techniques to solve this "miner" mystery.