Snapshot: My sweet childhood from Nairobi to the UKAs a young woman, my mother did not want to marry or be a mother, but she went on to have six children and also an amazing journey, which brought her to England. Kamal had to leave what is now Pakistan because of partition, and was packed off to live with grandparents in Mumbai – her mother had died and her father travelled to London to do his bar exams. Unable to return to India because of the political turmoil, my grandfather ended up in Nairobi with an uncle. Eventually my mother was sent for. She went reluctantly, leaving behind an extraordinary, fun life in Mumbai, spoiled by grandparents, home help and a chauffeur.In Nairobi, a marriage was arranged for her to a handsome Punjabi who, after serving in the British Indian army, had settled in Nairobi as a civil servant. Her reluctance to marry soon disappeared, as she embraced being a mother.In 1963, my parents made the monumental decision to leave Kenya. My father was keen to create a distance between him and my mother’s very successful but overpowering family but, more importantly, he believed life for Asians would become difficult after independence. My father, with my eldest brother, Anil, were the advance party who headed to Birmingham. Their mission was to call us if they thought England had the opportunities my parents wanted for their children.Three months later, we got the green light from my father and almost overnight locked up our sunny, spacious house in Nairobi, gave the keys to my aunts and flew away into the unknown.Seeing my father at Heathrow with the biggest bars of Cadbury’s chocolate is a sight I can still recall with clarity and warmth. For me, the journey from Heathrow to Birmingham was an adventure despite the grey skies and strange, smoking chimneystacks. What a stark contrast to the sun and familiarity we had left behind. My father had not managed to get a pen-pushing job but was working hard in a dusty foundry. My mother got on with the job of making our shabby, very small terrace feel like home and in making sure we were performing at school.At the time, we were the only non-white family in school and in our neighbourhood. Mother never openly complained – she was just glad to have all her family together. With six growing children and money tight she, too, got a factory job at Cadbury’s where she was one of the first Asian women to work on the shop floor. Childhood was sweet, in many ways. Our house was always full of children from all backgrounds, either hoping to get a broken up chocolate biscuit or a chapatti and dhal. I was happier eating baked beans and chips.Anita BhallaPlaylist: How I recorded Top of the Pops, and more …Rock Me Amadeus by Falco   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the video for Falco, Rock Me Amadeus“He was the first punk ever to set foot on this earth / He was a genius from the day of his birth / He could play the piano like a ring and a bell / And everybody screamed: ‘Come on, rock me Amadeus.’”In 1986, my favourite TV programme was Top of the Pops. Every Thursday night, I could be found glued to the TV waiting to hear if my favourite song had made it to No 1. Mum and Dad used to moan and groan about the “hideous racket” coming from the TV, but they always let me watch it.I was 14 that year and had recently got into athletics. A friend suggested we join the local athletics club but there was one snag – the main training day was a Thursday evening, the same time as Top of the Pops. This was 1986, before most households had a video recorder. So I didn’t have the option of recording the show.I loved this song. It was so different, so powerful and catchy. I had to know if it was still No 1. And I knew just the thing to do.I had a tape recorder. It wasn’t particularly good, but it served the purpose for which it had been bought – for my friend and I to sing into (screech would probably be a fairer word).So I told Dad what I planned to do. He’d need to have the TV on so it picked up the sound. He muttered that it was, “All right, I suppose”. The tape recorder wasn’t very good at picking things up, so I positioned it as close to the TV as possible.Off I went to athletics club, and back I came eager to listen to Tops of the Pops. When I pressed play, you could tell I hadn’t accounted for all the background noises, which were somehow much louder than the TV – Dad ruffling the paper the whole way through, coughing and belching and other such noises, Mum starting a conversation about the mess Dad made when he ate his biscuits in the lounge and of course, I’d forgotten that we had the loudest clock in the world and so there was its incessant ticking.So, after all that, was Amadeus still No 1? No, it wasn’t. Usurped by Spitting Image and The Chicken Song. I wasn’t impressed.Did the recording of Top of the Pops last? No. Neither did the athletics.Esther NewtonWe love to eat: Dad’s ‘Saps’ when Mum was awayIngredientsSliced white breadMilkWhite sugarArrange slices of bread in a shallow plate for each person. Heat the milk, as much as you like, and pour over. Sprinkle with sugar. Eat with a spoon. That’s it.This is a recipe of my wonderful dad’s. We only ate it once, and we actually didn’t love it at all. In the early 70s we were living on Islay in the Hebrides. Unprecedentedly, Mum had gone off to the mainland for a few days, leaving Dad with my sister and me. Teatime approached and, having been running about outside all day, we started hanging around the kitchen looking for clues as to what Dad would make for tea – neither of us could remember him ever making a meal before so we were curious as to what would appear.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Saps … good when toasted, too. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoOn the worktop were sliced white bread, a bottle of milk and the wooden sugar bowl. Dad was heating milk in the wee aluminium saucepan with the blue handle, and layering slices of bread in shallow plates. “What’s for tea, Dad?” Came the answer: “Saps”. Hot milk was poured over the bread, sugar sprinkled on top, spoons given out and teatime commenced. The bread was slithery, the milk formed a skin and even the gritty sugar couldn’t help. We were hungry, though, and that was what there was.Saps, cheap and filling, was a childhood food for my father, who was one of a large family. He is from a generation of men who never expected to cook for themselves, although he did learn later. The next night it was probably the 1970s classic tinned ravioli.Mum made us mince and tatties, stovies, omelettes. Having been brought up on a farm, Dad shot much of our food and Mum cooked game such as pheasant, pigeon and woodcock. Apparently once when roast beef was served I asked for a leg. We lived on an island but couldn’t buy fish except fish fingers from the supermarket.Dad got the last laugh. Imagine my amazement recently to find the same recipe in Nigella Lawson’s book Feast, billed as wonderful comfort food. Dad was ahead of the curve …Lizbeth CollieWe’d love to hear your storiesWe will pay £25 for every Letter to, Playlist, Snapshot or We Love to Eat we publish. Write to Family Life, The Guardian, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU or email family@theguardian.com. Please include your address and phone number.