Stephen Fry has left Twitter. He has given his reasons, saying, in his usual eloquent manner, it has become the “stalking ground for the sanctimoniously self-righteous”.The controversy began after he made a comment on Sunday night while hosting the Baftas, following the acceptance speech of Jenny Beavan for best costume design for Mad Max: Fury Road. As Beavan left the stage he said: “Only one of the great cinematic costume designers would come to the awards dressed like a bag lady.”The best quotes of the 2016 Baftas “That’s a bit cruel,” I thought. “No need for that kind of nastiness.” However, I did not leap to Twitter to make a comment. Those who did were not kind. People were outraged. As it turns out, Beavan is a good friend of Fry’s and was happy to be the butt of his joke. He posted photos of them together afterwards to prove the point. But the damage was done.We can’t get away from the fact that we live in an era when reaction is instant. The scientist Sir Tim Hunt had his career reduced to tatters when his remarks about the apparent lachrymose tendencies of female researchers went viral.In days gone by Hunt’s comments might have been quietly criticised, he might have been reprimanded, it might even have made a tiny corner of the local newspaper – but most of us would have been none the wiser. Life is not like that any more. News outlets all have their fingers on the pulse of social media. Stories often break on Twitter.Twitter can be a cruel and humourless place. Reactions are immediate and often thoughtless. The up side is that you have a right to reply; Fry was able to tell us all that he knew the person he had insulted. If it weren’t for Twitter we would be left to think he had been uncharacteristically mean to a stranger.People are thoughtless on social media; they tweet things they would never dream of saying to your face. As with all social forums people are much more likely to throw an insult than to offer a compliment. It is not a true reflection of general opinion although it is easily mistaken for just that. People tweet things they would never dream of saying to your face The support one may find on social media is equally skewed. People you follow are likely to hold similar opinions to you, in much the same way as we choose which newspaper to read. It is not impartial. As Twitter has grown it has lost its cosiness and much of its humour. The moments of genuine fun are now few and far between. It used to have the feeling of a secret club but its scale has depersonalised the experience. I no longer retweet insults made to me for the simple reason that the tirade of abuse those insulting me would receive on my behalf might constitute bullying.Fry had over 12 million followers when he left the site. Among that number are bound to be some attention seekers, some who use foul language and some who threaten. Perhaps anonymity is the problem. If we all had to be accountable for what we said the abuse might be more measured.In the meantime there is a simple solution. No need to leave Twitter – just don’t turn on the app.