BBC Music Awards 2016 8.30pm, BBC1Join Fearne Cotton, Claudia Winkleman and Gemma Cairney for the Beeb’s third annual shindig of musical backslappery. Live performers include Robbie Williams and Craig David, while the evening’s chief concern, the British artist of the year award, sees Adele, Jess Glynne, Coldplay, David Bowie and – unless it was an unfortunate typo in the press release – Calvin Harris compete for the gong. Something for everyone, then. Luke HollandMuslims Like Us 9pm, BBC2One house, nine days, 10 volunteers. This new two-part documentary repurposes the now-familiar Big Brother format to start a conversation about what it means to be Muslim in Britain in 2016, bringing together 10 willing participants – including a model, a teacher, a gay man and controversial ex-boxer Abdul-Haqq – to discuss their interpretations of Islamic faith. Expect both contradictory voices and karaoke. Concludes tomorrow. Graeme VirtueDavid Blaine: Beyond Magic 9pm, Channel 4It’s easy to mock David Blaine. There’s the beetle-browed earnestness. The portentous pontificating (“This is not only magic; it is the spectacle of the real”). And there’s the use of famous pals (tonight: David Beckham, Drake and Jennifer Lawrence) as a misdirection strategy. Even so, as this new show reminds us, his actual act – from some grotesque business with a wedding ring and a coathanger, to a bullet-catching masterclass – remains undeniably startling. Phil HarrisonHillsborough: Smears, Survivors & The Search For Truth 10.40pm, ITVDespite this year’s landmark ruling that the 96 people who died in the Hillsborough stadium disaster in 1989 were unlawfully killed, you suspect that the truth still needs reiterating. Reporter Peter Marshall, present that day, examines new evidence behind the headlines that sought to blame Liverpool football fans for the disaster, as well as examining how survivors and witnesses were treated. David StubbsSupergirl8pm, Sky1A big week for Sky1’s superhero shows, as Supergirl, the Flash, Arrow and time-travelling misfits the Legends of Tomorrow team up to repel a full-scale alien invasion in the first of a series of crossovers. The battle against the heinous Dominators starts proper in tomorrow’s instalment of the Flash but, before that, kickass Krypton lass Kara has to deal with undercooked Thanksgiving turkey and two Luthor ladies launching a lethal bioweapon. GVTime Commanders 9pm, BBC4The historical battle simulation show returns after 11 years. If you’ve missed it, you probably won’t be concerned by the fact that the host is no longer the warlike Richard Hammond but the chipper, gourmandising Gregg Wallace, who presides over the two competing teams. Tonight’s strategic re-enactment (don’t say game) stages the Battle of Zama (202BC), casting a team of amateur wrestlers as Hannibal’s Carthaginians and role-playing gamers as Scipio’s Romans. John RobinsonThe Walking Dead 9pm, FoxThe mid-season finale, and what a thankless chore it has been so far. Negan and his not-so-merry band of Saviors are in Alexandria to collect their tribute, and – this being a mid-season finale – things are likely to end in some kind of dust-up. Will Rick finally regain his mojo and slap that smirk off Negan’s fuzzy fizzog? Will Daryl escape the Saviors’ manky cell? And – more importantly – can one exciting episode make up for the preceding six’s trudging, dreary, plotless wheel-spinning? LHFilm choiceHail, Caesar! (Ethan and Joel Coen, 2016) 7.55am, 6pm, Sky Cinema PremiereGeorge Clooney is fictive 50s movie star Baird Whitlock, who is kidnapped and held to ransom while shooting a biblical epic. But this is just one of a heap of problems facing Josh Brolin’s studio PR Eddie Mannix: Scarlett Johansson’s pregnant starlet, Ralph Fiennes’s snooty director and twin gossip columnists (both played by Tilda Swinton) are all acting up, too, in a superbly staged, wacky homage to the old ways of Tinseltown. Paul HowlettLive sportSnooker: Scottish Open Day one of the event from the Emirates Arena in Glasgow. 12.45pm, Eurosport 1League One Football: Bolton Wanderers v Gillingham Coverage of the game at the Macron Stadium. 7.45pm, Sky Sports 1NBA: Los Angeles Clippers v Portland Trail Blazers A Western Conference clash at Staples Centre. 3.30am, BT Sport 1