Tell us about your life in the red: how do you survive with debt? Debt: $73,000Source: Student loans Estimated years until debt-free: 21 yearsBefore Adam and I moved in together, it was easy to hide the debt. I had a routine: unopened envelopes placed in a waiting drawer, threatening phone calls dismissed with a simple quip or two. Somehow I managed to scrape up enough money to make it seem as though I was fine, though I rarely was. You’ve no doubt heard these types of stories. One scoop freelance writer, one pinch struggle; just add water. But it started long before he and I ever did. The debt dated back to my first week of college at the University of California, Santa Barbara, where I signed up for not one but multiple credit cards and somehow neglected to pay any one of them down.Stir in a healthy helping of student loans and there you have the recipe that was my life. I knew it wasn’t a healthy one. I understood that unpaid debt was the fast food of finance, that in that context credit cards represented a quickie drive-through type of existence. Junk food, I knew, only fattens. It never fills.And still I couldn’t get my act together. It was never an issue of overspending; in order to do that, you have to have money to begin with. No, for me it was a matter of finding jobs, keeping them for a brief amount of time, losing them (or, rather, having them lose me) and starting the cycle anew. I wasn’t making it as a freelancer; I couldn’t hack office life, so this was the best way to cover the fact that I couldn’t get or keep a job. My $50,000 medical debt was like a hydra-headed monster that ate my life | Maggie Ethridge The living-like-a-kid thing was getting old. I was getting old. I had just turned 30; it was time to grow up.Meanwhile, my relationship was gaining steam. Adam was spending most nights at my one-bedroom apartment. We cooked together, took turns feeding my geriatric cat. I continued to fool myself that he didn’t recognize I was in a financial hole until the moment he turned to me and said: “Do you need help?”I’ve heard that there are three reactions to threat: fight, flight and freeze. The latter hit me with the strength of an implosion. My mouth tightened, my muscles contracted. The defenses built in my brain.“No,” I said, and was thankful when that sufficed. Here’s the thing, though: these questions never really disappear. They just dissipate for a spell, only to resurface at the most unwieldy of times. Specifically, it was the afternoon he asked me to move in with him. We were romantically cuddled together, looking at Craigslist apartment ads, when he took a breath and –“I don’t want to ask this,” he said, “but I have to. How’s your credit?”Oh, God. Cue sweaty palms, racing heart, all the cliched signals of frayed nerves. Did I have to tell him? Of course. “It’s fine,” I said.And here’s where the deus ex machina drops down: our landlord-to-be never checked our credit. He just went according to his gut. His gut must’ve liked us, because he took us on as tenants with basically a handshake and a smile to secure us. A charmed existence never lasts. Adam found – and opened – an envelope.“Five months,” he said. “Five months since you stopped paying your student loans.”Only five months? I wasn’t doing so bad. “You opened my mail,” I said.“It wasn’t opening itself.”“I was going to,” I said, “eventually.”By this point we were engaged. The future held entanglements. I glanced at my diamond ring and it twinkled back with a warning: be honest or be gone.“I want to take over paying it,” he said.“OK,” I said, totally out of conversational synch. “I wasn’t going to open it.”“I know,” he said, and repeated himself. My grandmother's death saved me from a life of debt | Robert Pendry And that’s how my husband-to-be saddled himself with my debt. He didn’t just take on the student loans. He insisted on finding out everything – everything. He opened envelopes. He answered phone calls. Even when they were from Unknown numbers. “It’s not just you this affects,” he said. “It’s me. It’s us.”That concept of an us. A union. A team, and I was always a solo player. Deal with it, the ring said. Or be alone. Broke. It’s your choice.“I understand,” I said, and the words were like shards in my throat.I’d like to say it got easier, this handing-off of responsibility to another. I’d love to tell you I grew more gracious, got comfy with the idea of truth-telling. In fact, to this day I’m still more likely to hide than reveal. But I’m trying. It’s what I owe – to him.