The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption.The annual Global Compact Lead Symposium is an opportunity exclusively for Lead companies to come together with global experts to exchange experiences and views on advanced aspects of corporate sustainability vision, strategy and practice. This year’s Lead Symposium will challenge participants to sketch a vision for The Future Corporation. On 20 November 2014, Lead companies and invited experts will identify key characteristics of what the sustainable corporation could and should look like in the future – how it will be governed, create value and manage its impact on society – providing a beacon for the transition of the global business community that is already underway, fueled by deeper integration of sustainability into strategies and operations. View the agenda and participants, and learn more at www.unglobalcompact.org/LEADSymposium. Highlighted sessions:Imagining The Future Corporation: Opening Session - 9:00 - 10:30 ETTo set the stage for the day’s discussions, the opening will feature inspirational speeches that will reflect on the history and role of the corporation and why and how The Future Corporation must be different from the past. JoelBakan, Author, documentary The CorporationL. Hunter Lovins, President and Founder, Natural Capitalism SolutionsGraham Hutchings, Managing Director, Oxford Analytica Ask a Sustainability Professional - 10:40During dedicated time slots, PRME students will be able to pose questions to Lead company and UN Global Compact representatives on Twitter (using #FutureCorporation). Students can ask about a company’s ongoing sustainability efforts, their current job function, The Future Corporation broadly and other relevant areas of interest.  Marc Gunther interviews NovozymeScreening of part of “The Corporation” documentary and Q&A with Joel Bakan -10:55 - 11:40Part of the documentary “The Corporation” from Joel Bakan will be streamed, followed by a Q&A session with him. Online participants are encouraged to send questions to Joel Bakan in advance on Twitter using #FutureCorporation. Realizing the Future Corporation: Designing the Board Room - 12:25 - 13:25In order to move toward a more sustainable future, there must be full support at the highest levels of governance and decision-making. This session will zoom in on the critical role Boards of Directors, as the highest level of governance in most large corporations, can and should play in facilitating the transition to a new and “better” corporation. Guided by the experiences of the pioneering Boards of six Lead companies from Europe, Asia and Africa, the session will mark the global launch of the new Global Compact Board Programme.  Corporate Sustainability in the Board Room  Official launch of the Global Compact Lead Board Programme   The Global Compact Board Programme – Experiences from the pilot companies This series on the 2014 United Nations Global Compact Lead Symposium is funded by the UNGC. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled “brought to you by”. Find out more here.