Human beings do not effectively process tragedy. Much of what we do in life is automated. Our days are made up of mindless routines - both physical and emotional - processes that allows us to function without being constantly bombarded with decisions. Once in a while, something terrible happens. Someone we love becomes very ill, and then they die. When this occurs, all our systems are suddenly exposed as absurdity and artifice, and nothing makes sense anymore. This is a process we call grief.Released this week, That Dragon, Cancer is very much about this experience. Created by coder Ryan Green and his wife Amy, working with a small team of artists and programmers, it is a game about the couple’s young son Joel, who was diagnosed with terminal cancer, fought it for years, and died in March 2014. Through a series of interactive tableaus, the player is brought into key moments on that heart-wrenching journey. We see Joel and his family during the initial diagnosis, we see Joel on an intensive care unit, we see his frail body attached to drips and other unknowable medical equipment. We see Ryan and his family coping and not coping.That Dragon, Cancer belongs in an emerging genre of games where the focus is on the emotional experience rather than traditional interactive elements like shooting, jumping or puzzle solving. Much of the time you have little control as scenes play out; you can direct the camera or pick up objects which move the narration (spoken by Ryan, Amy and their sons) – but you are present to hear their story of love, loss and faith. Sometimes this process is whimsical: like the scene at the beginning where you control a duck that Joel is throwing bread to. But sometimes it is devastating, like the scene where a doctor is telling Ryan and Amy that the treatment hasn’t worked, that the cancer is terminal – and the way you move the conversation on is by hitting buttons on Joel’s toy as he absentmindedly plays. But while the game is, at times, unbearably sad and poignant, the Greens have always been determined to show that Joel’s life, even right at the end, was not one of constant sadness – and neither was their experience of it. “I don’t fault anyone for not wanting to go near the game,” said Ryan last year. “I hope they know that our intention isn’t to drag people through it. There are a few hard scenes, but there are sweet scenes and funny scenes and silly scenes, and then there are some magical scenes. I think that’s one of the things you find out in the hospital - you’re crying one minute, then you’re talking about these things you never thought you’d have to talk about, then you’re laughing the next. Life is all of that.”Like a lot of people, I guess, I know this to be true. I recognise the changes in tone present throughout the experience of fear and grief. As the game takes us from hospital corridors to woodland walks to symbolic ocean scenes, it rings true to me.On 29 January 2003, at about 2am, I got a phone call from my older sister. “If you want to see Dad,” she said simply, “You’d better come now.”I was living in Bristol at the time, and my parents were in Cheltenham, an hour’s drive away – I was tired and disorientated but I woke my wife and we dressed, threw some clothes into a bag and got in the car. Two years before, my dad had found a painful lump on his tongue, he downplayed it, which was typical of him, but then it turned out to be cancer. He went though radiotherapy and other treatments – a long, painful and distressing process – and at one stage it looked like he would pull through. But then the cancer spread, and slowly at first, but then very quickly, it became clear that he would not pull through. All the timeframes we’d been given by the doctors, all the possibilities and prognoses, collapsed in on themselves like a house of cards. My sister called me from our parents’ house because she knew Dad was dying. When I arrived, my younger sister and her husband were there too, my mum was making cups of tea. My dad was lying in a bed in the guest room - his breathing was laboured, his hair, usually tidily combed, was messy. He was pumped full of painkillers and semiconscious. But it was my dad, and this was reality, and here we all were. And we didn’t really know what to do or what to feel.This is the interesting thing about That Dragon, Cancer. It is an attempt to convey the sheer confusion and bewilderment of this process, through a series of surreal, often silly and seemingly pointless moments. At one stage near the beginning, a hospital scene dissolves into a sort of Mario Kart-style racing sequence, where Amy takes Joel on a wild ride through the corridors, the player controlling the action like a driving game. To some, this has proved very odd and distracting, especially at a point where the game seems to be preparing us for terrible news. It seems like it doesn’t fit, like it breaks the flow. But the truth is, it’s an exceptionally pertinent intrusion - because, well, there is no flow to this. There is no defining mood, no smooth descent. This process is chaos.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The scene where the Greens discover tthe cancer is incurable is cleverly handled, through the medium of a child’s toy Photograph: Numinous GamesWe sat with my dad for two days as he slowly, fitfully, faded away. But my memories of that time are not filled with sadness - there was light too. We slumped about on the bed opposite him, telling jokes, laughing, remembering stuff. Sometimes he’d join in. He told us about a friend of his who’d owned a Porsche – always my favourite sports car – but then the story stopped making sense and we took the mick out of him, as we had often done. At one point my dad reminded my mum not to lose her dutty bag, which she had to explain was what she used to call her makeup bag in the sixties, maybe when they were first going out. His memory drifted; he was both with us in the room, but also outside of it, a long way away. He told my mum to make sure she kept her hair nice.We all laughed. Sometimes, as he slept, we ate and watched TV. During the second night I kept waking up and listening out for the slow wheeze of his breathing. Even though I knew the end was coming, the sound was a comfort. We were together as a family, we dealt with it as best we could; life took on a surreal patina, as though we temporarily existed outside of our own lives, outside of time itself. It was tough, but sometimes it was funny. Just like in the game.For a long time, I couldn’t tell anyone about the laughter that permeated those awful days. It felt like other people who perhaps hadn’t experienced the death of a loved one wouldn’t understand, that they’d judge me - in the same way that couples who haven’t yet had children tend to rather harshly judge the parenting skills of their friends. There is a script we’re supposed to follow, told to us through a thousand cinematic death scenes. The sombre faces gathered around a bed, everyone trying to be brave. It is rare, on TV or in a book, for someone to break away and say “anyone for more tea?” But that was my experience. I think this is the unique value of games as a medium - they offer agency to the audience and because of this there is the potential for weird, stupid stuff to happen. Video games, like grief, break us out of our sublimated modes of thinking and acting. Games give us stories, but the good ones always allow us to utterly subvert authorial intentions. They teach us about control and the loss of control. They are by their very nature anarchic.They are also intrinsically about death in a way that no other cultural form is. Games toy with death, they systemise it so that it often becomes nothing but a momentary inconvenience. You have multiple lives in games, you die and respawn – everything is part of the same machine. And because of this, games are often simultaneously terrifying, heartbreaking and ridiculous. In Half-Life, the great science fiction shooter set amid the alien invasion of a hidden research base, you can listen to scientists pleading with you for help, while you leap around the room, or hit them with a crowbar. Games give us back the agency that we sometimes surrender to life - and agency can be strange and playful and inappropriate. This is why we can sometimes find ourselves gently mocking a loved one even as they fade away from us. That Dragon Cancer deals well with these complex, harrowing issues. There is one scene, set on sort of symbolic ocean, where Ryan and Amy argue over the future: Amy is sure Joel will live – she has faith that God will rescue him. But Ryan cannot allow himself to hope. To hear them act out this surely genuine moment from their lives is almost unbearable. But the serenity of the visuals and the way in which you explore the environment, as a seagull swooping from perch to perch, gives a sense of distance. These careful decisions take away the terrible sting.I wasn’t there when my dad died. On the second morning, I’d driven home to get some more things and when I got back, my mum opened the door and told me that he’d passed away literally minutes before. “Come and say goodbye,” she said. When I went in and saw him lying there beneath the covers, I knew that the thing people say - that death is unmistakable, that it looks nothing like sleeping - was true. My dad and everything he had ever been was gone from that room. I held his hand. The jokes were over. Well, that’s what I thought. But I was wrong. This is another important message reflected and explored in That Dragon, Cancer - one that I hope will provide comfort to Ryan, Amy and their children as the years go on. This game is a very tangible testament to the fact that relationships continue after death. They don’t go. They don’t. What we have to understand, and what art has always tried to communicate, is that when you love someone, there exists between you an unbreakable bond. It is a sort of emotional Wi-Fi signal that carries all your shared feelings and memories and experiences and private jokes. But when one person dies, the signal carries on. It always transmits. Which is why I still think of funny things I want to share with my dad, and I still imagine his response. These are not fanciful distractions, they are a simulation, they are a reality that didn’t happen but could have, if we’d have been given more time. The signal is weak, but it is still there.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Throughout the game cancer is shown figuratively, sometimes as pulsating black trees looming in the background Photograph: Numinous GamesIn the background, That Dragon, Cancer is inescapably a game about Ryan and Amy’s Christian faith, which could easily have been alienating to those of us who are not religious. It is also about the death of a child, not a parent – a grief I cannot even begin to comprehend. However, the message imparted by the game can be universally understood – that loving someone until they die is a complicated, devastating and joyful experience. When you lose them, no one can tell you how to react because no one else knows what you had. A lot of the time, just to get by in life, we submit to routine and convention, but when the starkest realities present themselves, we should not be afraid to feel what we feel.One scene in the game brings this all home for me. There is a hospital corridor filled with greetings cards – they are stuck to the walls, they stand on the cupboards and tables – and you can pick up each one and read the message inside. Most appear to be addressed to loved ones who perhaps also fought the dragon cancer and lost. One reads simply: “I love you papa. Even now, you still make me laugh.”This is the truth of it – the truth of the game, and maybe everything else. The light doesn’t go out. The bond doesn’t break. What you had is yours for ever.