Iceland’s heroic performance in the Euro 2016 football tournament has had a surprising side-effect – a boost for the tiny Nordic country’s publishing industry.The head of the country’s largest publishing house, Forlagið, said that, since the Iceland team stormed through to the quarter finals of the tournament, interest had soared, both from readers interested in Icelandic literature and foreign publishers wanting translation rights.Egill Örn Jóhannsson told the Guardian: “With the success and attention Iceland got at the Euros we have felt a significant increase in interest in our authors and works, which is very enjoyable.”The surge in inquiries, he said, has extended beyond Europe and the US to publishers in South Korea and Taiwan. Adding that Forlagid sells a lot of translation rights every year, he said: “Of course publishers and readers want to know more about the country after the success of the football team, and one of the best ways to get to know a country and its people is through its literature, so in a way this is very understandable, as the football team and its supporters made headlines in world news for a couple of weeks.” Forlagid publishes 150 to 200 titles each year, in a wide range of genres. The undoubted star of the show for the company is crime writer Arnaldur Indriðason, author of the Detective Erlendur series. Jóhannsson said: “There are also dozens of other authors doing well, locally and internationally, but Arnaldur is the one that stands out. He, I would say, is one of Scandinavia’s best crime authors and has been a huge hit … he has sold over 12m copies worldwide at this point. ”Also of international interest, Johannson said, is Andri Snær Magnason: “He has been getting a lot of interest, partly because he was running for president of Iceland … His book, The Story of The Blue Planet, has been translated into 30 languages. Then I must mention Lilja Sigurðardóttir. Her crime novel who was a bestseller in Iceland last year is getting a lot of attention from international publishers.” Although Forlagið puts out a wide range of books, it majors in fiction – and that’s what the foreign publishers are looking for, said Jóhannsson. “Especially titles that are very ‘Icelandic’, so the reader can in a way feel how Iceland and Icelanders are.” While BBC football presenter Gary Lineker observed that there were more volcanoes in Iceland than professional footballers, that’s not true of would-be writers. The population, of just under 330,000, is full of wannabe writers. “There is a saying in Iceland that every Icelander has either written a book or wants to write a book,” said Jóhannsson. “So yes, the literary scene in Iceland is extremely lively. We get a new Icelandic manuscript on average every day, and that’s just us – there are over 100 publishers active in the Icelandic market every year. “Our heritage mainly comes from writing, in the Sagas, and we have had a lot of quality writers over the years, including one Nobel prize-winner”. (Halldór Laxness won the Nobel prize in literature in 1955 for a huge body of work including novels, short stories, journalism and poetry). The appetite for literature in the country is huge, said Jóhannsson, with a healthy homegrown writing industry as well as translated fiction. “The marketplace itself is of course limited because of the size of the population, but I would have to say that every year the number and quality of titles being published is amazing. Many titles, I must say, are at a par with what is best happening in the world. We also do a lot of translated work, both in fiction and nonfiction from all over the world.” But although sales – and interest in Icelandic books – are increasing, Jóhannsson said: “The industry is in fact very small … I would think that the yearly turnover in the book trade is around €40m (£34m), so we are quite small in terms of the economy.”