When it was announced last month that HBO’s hot take factory Girls would be ending after its sixth season, my initial assessment was that it was time to put the series out to pasture. The fourth season, which aired last year, was a bit of a mess. Hannah (creator and star Lena Dunham) moved to Iowa to attend a writers workshop and then, just as impulsively, quit and moved back. An inordinate amount of time was spent on her father’s (Peter Scolari) coming out as gay and the dissolution of her parents’ marriage when these figures had only been tertiary characters at best. Then I watched the first four episodes of the fifth season, which premieres on Sunday 21 February on HBO at 10pm EST, and I have to admit I was entirely wrong. It seems like this could be Girls’ best season yet. What was it like to grow up with Girls? The biggest change isn’t one of tone or quality, but mostly one of structure and consistency. Previous seasons of Girls were a mishmash of character motivations, plot turns that never went anywhere, and relationships inevitably doomed to failure. Even the four main characters would come and go each episode for no explicable reason. Season five is remarkable mostly for its laser-like focus on each of the members of this sometimes insufferable (by design) clique. It carefully advances all their storylines each week.As the season kicks off at Marnie’s (Allison Williams) wedding, we see her trying to settle into a relationship that she wants to make perfect (but which never will be), and struggling with her new domestic situation. Hannah has settled down with Fran (Jake Lacy), a loving and supportive man who is the sane counterbalance to her. She’s even holding down a job as an English teacher. Jessa (Jemima Kirke), always the most bohemian, is attending AA meetings, working on becoming a therapist, and making adult choices when it comes to relationships. Shoshanna (Zosia Mamet) is living in Japan and finally feels at home, even when her happiness there is threatened.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Shoshanna: serene in Japan. Photograph: HBOEach plot is advanced steadily and incrementally in both believable and often hilarious ways. There is so much narrative clarity that the show even makes time for Ray (Alex Karpovsky) to have a storyline about the rival cafe across the street from his; and for Hannah’s ex Elijah (Andrew Rannells) to have a romantic storyline of his own. Hannah’s father comes back again this year, but now his coming out feels more like part of Hannah’s struggle to grapple with the steadiness of her childhood rather than a mere comedic distraction from the rest of the stories. As Girls always manages at its best, season five feels both true to life and surprising. It’s delightful to tune in each week and know exactly what kind of episode we’re going to get. Just like all of the characters, the show has become dependable. It’s as if the trajectory of Hannah and her posse’s lives have also taken over the writer’s room. The aimless thrashing of their early 20s has calmed down and now they’ve reached the determination of their late 20s, trying to achieve their dreams rather than blindly pursuing them and willing to make sacrifices for success, both personally and professional. Do they still behave badly? Of course. (Just wait until you see how Hannah deals with her boss at work.) The problem with that theory, however, is that making a great show, even one about the ups and downs of growing up, shouldn’t necessarily imitate those ups and downs. Well, in terms of tone, yes. But Girls’ problem is that it has always vacillated wildly in terms of quality. This season we get all of the erratic quality of the story with the sound structure of well-crafted television. If this is what growing up looks like, I’m glad the girls are finally getting old. 