Austerity has killed my museum. I was a volunteer for two and a half years, but now the doors of the local museum are closed, all the staff made redundant, the collection rationalised, and the Grade II-listed medieval building that housed it will be put up for sale. A display case in the central library is the token replacement.Where is this cultural act of vandalism? Not in the hard-hit north or a cash-strapped central London borough – but leafy Bromley in south-east London.Who would be a librarian now? You know what, I'll have a go Before it was closed in September 2015, in the year of its 50th anniversary, there were three full-time staff and about 40 volunteers working at Bromley Museum. Volunteers are not all retired people with time on our hands. For some, volunteering is that crucial first step on the career ladder, particularly in the museum sector where jobs are competitive and hard to come by. One of my colleagues was inspired to start a career in museums and archives after volunteering with me at Bromley Museum – a career she intends to pursue for the rest of her life.I’d already had a great career. A degree and a master’s completed, I’d worked as a researcher and librarian at the Financial Times and then at the London School of Economics. Then my eldest was diagnosed with autism. Suddenly I was trying to get her to school, endless assessments and doctors appointments; I had three children under 10 and was struggling to cope. I had to take a step back from my career, but that didn’t mean I wanted to give up. Volunteering offered a flexible lifeline. I could learn and grow and still be useful.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A handling session delivered by volunteers at Bromley Museum. Photograph: Claire MadgeAt Bromley Museum I helped with education and school sessions. The museum was awarded a £186,300 development grant from the Heritage Lottery Fund in 2012, and in June 2014 the council requested a further grant of £2.5m. This money would have transformed the accessibility of the building and updated the exhibition spaces. After two years working on the bid we were on the verge of something special; I had gone into the community and asked people what their museum meant to them. But at the point of submission the council suddenly decided it couldn’t commit to the terms of the grant, which required the museum be kept open for a further 25 years. The council withdrew its application, and dropped all plans for the museum. I went to council meetings and put questions to councillors but it seemed that the decision to close the museum was made early on and the consultations and discussions were just window dressing. It was a flawed process and our voices were ignored. It’s incredibly hard to fight for specialised staff when councillors have no concept of what museum staff do and believe a display case equals a museum.The local council pointed to George Osborne’s central government cuts while the Tories slammed local government decisionmakers. In the confusion no one is to blame and no one held to account, but museums close and local communities suffer.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bromley Museum Photograph: Claire MadgeIn closing Bromley Museum we lost our local history: David Bowie, HG Wells, Darwin and Sir John Lubbock, who brought in bank holidays. We are losing a beautiful, historic building that belonged to everyone and will now no doubt fall into private hands. There are no longer education sessions for hundreds of schoolchildren, nor longer sessions for families on low incomes who never take a trip to London to visit the Science Museum or the Natural History Museum. There is no support for home-schooled children who struggle to fit in the new academy-focused educational landscape.Most importantly, there’s no safe place and haven for children like mine who have autism. Bromley Museum, local, small, with supportive staff – it became our home from home. The challenges of London’s big museums, crushed transport lines and busy streets are often insurmountable barriers for us. At Bromley Museum we could play, learn and have fun together.Volunteers are passionate and we love what we do. We keep our charities, museums and libraries afloat. But we don’t want to be used and taken advantage of and we don’t want to be the reason that paid jobs are cut and professional roles attacked. I also volunteer at the Museum of London, and I take my volunteering as seriously as my career. Who runs local museums and how are they surviving the funding crisis? The council has suggested that volunteers will still be involved in handling the part of the collection that is to be moved to the central library. But I will not be taking them up on this offer. I believe that untrained volunteers can do more harm than good to museum objects, and with no museum staff and loss of museum accreditation, volunteers would not be able to access many funding and training courses. I loved Bromley Museum. To me it was more than a building with objects: it was my coping strategy. I’ve lost a wage and had to make cuts in my own life, but I haven’t cut culture, history and books. Volunteering keeps me going. Claire Madge blogs at Tincture of MuseumThis series aims to give a voice to the staff behind the public services that are hit by mounting cuts and rising demand, and so often denigrated by the press, politicians and public. If you would like to write an article for the series, contact tamsin.rutter@theguardian.com.Talk to us on Twitter via @Guardianpublic and sign up for your free weekly Guardian Public Leaders newsletter with news and analysis sent direct to you every Thursday.