What would Helen Gurley Brown, determined fabricator of her own life story, have made of Enter Helen, a new biography by Brooke Hauser that takes an affectionate but unvarnished look at her long tenure as editor of Cosmopolitan magazine? She’d have loved it, declared Barbara Hustedt Crook, one of HGB’s original Cosmo staffers, at an event last night to celebrate the book and its subject, at Brooklyn’s Powerhouse Arena. “She never liked a puff piece – and she liked a zippy read,” Crook said. Brown was not an editor when she arrived at Hearst’s floundering general-interest title Cosmopolitan in the summer of 1965 – she was the famous author of an infamous book, 1962’s autobiographical bestseller Sex and the Single Girl. But she had a needle-sharp editorial instinct about whom her magazine was for – a reader who’d never been catered to in this way: herself, 20 (or more) years before, the plain “mouseburger” from the middle of nowhere, a walking tangle of insecurities and desires that she couldn’t articulate – for glamour, sex and power. This woman, who was almost always white, worried about her body, about money, about men – and she was sympathetic but mostly uninterested in the bigger fights of her era, for civil rights and against the war in Vietnam. And, to the surprise of everyone at Hearst except Brown, there were millions of her.Helen Gurley Brown: how to have it all In a line zippy and neat enough to be a Brown zinger, Hauser said: “A women’s magazine is a perfect cocktail, and Helen was the ultimate mixologist.” The current newsstand issue of the magazine offers a typical combination of pieces on money (“Smart ways to double your money”), dieting (complete with the backhanded hashtag “#noguiltnachos”), and love advice that promises to be a route to something bigger: “You deserve better ... SEX.” To this day, other women’s magazines shape themselves in relation to Cosmo, either in imitation or opposition. For example, Anna Holmes, the founding editor of Jezebel, said last night that as a teenager, she found the magazine’s focus on sex “intimidating”, but went back to look at early issues as she was preparing to launch Jezebel. That site’s tagline, “Celebrity. Sex. Fashion. Without Airbrushing”, was a declaration that it was possible to serve up the cocktail without the roofie, to offer women the fun without the nagging fear that you were “less than” whatever the magazine said you should be.Long before Jezebel, another magazine was taking aim at Cosmo for its dishonesty to its readers, and seeking to be an alternative voice. But the founders of Ms magazine, who included Gloria Steinem and Helen’s former book publicist Letty Cottin Pogrebin, had a more complicated relationship with Brown’s empire than they sometimes wanted to admit. Steinem went from appearing in a Cosmopolitan photo shoot in the magazine in the late 1960s, dressed in a skimpy romper suit and perched on the knee of a male television star, to challenging Brown to embrace the women’s movement.Brown, for her part, went from ridiculing women’s-libbers as “a bunch of nut-burgers” in her editor’s letter to publishing an excerpt from Kate Millett’s landmark feminist manifesto Sexual Politics in 1969. But it wasn’t necessarily an ideological shift: after years working in advertising, Brown had an instinct for what was selling, and by the end of the 1960s, that was liberation.As a journalist, Hauser has profiled plenty of celebrities, and she said that now it has become obligatory to ask her subjects: “Do you consider yourself a feminist?” When it comes to Brown, the question is complicated enough that she struggles to answer it. “She didn’t call herself a feminist,” she said, “so it feels weird to retroactively apply that label. But she certainly believed in what feminism is – equal rights for women and men.” In 1959, when the Browns married, a man really was the most direct route to the kind of success Brown craved, and solidarity wasn’t something she could imagine. Like any good copywriter, Brown also understood that when it came to persuading millions of people to your side, beliefs and theories were no match for a good, clear, zippily narrated story. Her own story was one of the best, a fiction she maintained as rigorously as her appearance. The rags-to-riches tale of her journey from a dirt-poor childhood in rural Arkansas to the bright lights Los Angeles and then New York was a flamboyant exaggeration of what Hauser explains was actually a middle-class upbringing in Little Rock by parents who were educated and socially prominent. On a slide projector Tuesday night, Hauser displayed youthful photographs that show how far Brown exaggerated her own plainness for effect. The less she had been, the more she could become, and the more magical it seemed.“So much of what people remember about her has to do with sex and singledom and dating, but there is still some really valuable advice, and most of it has to do with getting ahead in your career and budgeting money,” said Hauser. “It was clear to me that she was really saying was: here’s a step-by-step guide on how to become an individual.”