Debt: $16,000Source: Credit cardsEstimated years until debt-free: Six years My childhood was spent straddling two distinct economic classes. During the school year my three sisters and I lived with my mother and stepfather in a huge, rambling house that projected affluence. In reality, we lived in perpetual financial crisis mode, and my mother was constantly worried about money. The way my life appeared from the outside rarely reflected actual money in the bank. This financial cognitive dissonance has, in many ways, defined my life to this day.My mother and stepfather’s precarious financial situation reflected the turbulent nature of our lives: my stepfather was an eccentric free spirit and my mother was an alcoholic. Though she showered us all with affection, the routine tasks of parenting often fell through the cracks. In contrast, summers were spent with our father and stepmother in Florida, where love was in short supply, but dinner was on the table every night promptly at 7pm, and money was never an issue. When we weren’t in his luxury apartment overlooking the water, he was flying us in his private plane to the Bahamas, where the family kept a boat. It was a 57ft motor cruiser so most people might call it a yacht, but to us it was “the boat”. The confusion and uncertainty I felt moving between those two worlds had a profound impact on me as a child. Complicating the duality was the fact that during my parents’ contentious custody battle, my stepmother took the stand to say that when we children arrived for visits we were often unclean and in dirty, torn clothes. I don’t recall how I learned of her statement, which was untrue, but it made me feel deeply ashamed. I spent my life in debt. Now I know childhood trauma was to blame | Jody Allard That shame took root, and from an early age I became obsessed with having money and ensuring that I always presented myself a certain way. I wanted to look like the prosperous country club crowd my father and stepmother held in such high regard.By the time I married in 1999, at the age of 34, I had perfected the art of living on a shoestring, while cultivating an image of upscale comfort. As a struggling journalist I often ate $1 boxes of rice from the Chinese take-out so that I could buy expensive shoes or a handbag. If scrimping on meals wasn’t enough, I’d pull out my credit card. I went into my marriage with credit card bills hovering around $5,000, which took a few years to pay.In the first decade of our marriage, my husband rose from a low-level accountant to a country CFO at a global bank. I no longer had to pretend to be affluent; we were affluent. When we (our children were born in 2000 and 2003) relocated to Asia, we lived like royalty. The bank paid most of our major bills – including rent in luxury homes, cars and yearly trips back to the US in business class – which left us a huge amount of discretionary income. We racked up massive credit card bills every month, which were promptly paid in full. The shame from my childhood was buried deep beneath our picture-perfect family. My money problems were over.But it was an illusion. When we moved back to the US in 2011 we purchased a grand home that was just out of our reach. My husband was determined to have the house, so we used all of our savings – including a small inheritance I had put aside for our children – and scraped together every bit of cash we had for the down payment. My husband told me to use credit cards for expenses, and not to worry because we would pay it back. Will my boyfriend reject me if he finds out about my debt? | Anonymous The next year he left me for another woman. While untangling our finances for the divorce I learned that the financial security I believed in was a lot of smoke and mirrors. Not only did we have far less wealth than I thought, but in divvying up debt I was stuck with the credit card debt, which by then totaled about $16,000. As I relive my mother’s plight of constantly worrying about paying the bills, I’ve realized that my obsession with having money isn’t about money at all. My childhood implanted an association between wealth and security; a lack of money represented chaos and disorder. And at the core, I wanted to erase the image of the dirty child in the torn clothes.My life is a far cry from the one I lived in Asia. Gone are the many luxuries I took for granted; I’m working round the clock, and have learned to do almost all my own home repairs. Though my closet contains a designer wardrobe, I often leave the house in sweats because I don’t want to take time away from writing to make myself country club presentable. But I’m working hard and slowly paying down my debt; and there’s no shame in that.Tell us about your life in the red: how do you survive with debt? 