“Close your eyes and focus on the first image that pops into your head when I say ‘nature’,” Dr Larry Weiss tells me over the phone. “Okay, now ... does the image include any humans?”Weiss, the chief medical officer of skincare company AO Biome, says that he has posed this question to thousands of people, but not a single person has ever answered yes. It’s his way of illustrating how much humanity has removed itself from nature.What's next for green chemistry? Join The Guardian for this one-day event That disconnect is perhaps most evident in society’s somewhat contrary relationship to bacteria. We kill it in the bathroom, but we drink it in yogurt. Humans are awash in microorganisms, but most people remain a little uncomfortable with the idea of bacteria on their skin. For years, conventional wisdom has dictated that people need antibacterial agents to blast “bad” bacteria from their bodies, and companies have produced a slew of products designed to do just that. Now, researchers are discovering that these antibacterial chemicals are, in many cases, far more dangerous than the bacteria they were designed to kill. The chemical triclosan, which the Federal Drug Administration (FDA) recently banned from soaps, is the latest example.Bacteria just wants to be understoodPutting aside the fact that many skincare products are toxic, a growing body of research suggests that blasting bacteria off the human body is the wrong approach, period. Studies have linked bacteria to immune system function and to combatting various inflammatory diseases, and recent research around the human microbiome – the genes of all our microbes – has indicated that people are probably better off letting their “good” bacteria, which support the body’s systems, fight their “bad” bacteria, which can cause illness, infection and even death.The American Nutrition Association recommends a balance of about 85% good to 15% bad bacteria. Bad, or pathogenic, bacteria can come from either external sources such as food and environmental toxins, or internal sources, as a reaction to stress. In some cases, perfectly harmless bacteria in the body can turn bad when triggered. For example, streptococcus pneumoniae bacteria (pneumococcus), can live in the nose and throat for months before triggering earaches, meningitis or pneumonia. In other words, it’s complicated. And we are just beginning to get a moderate understanding of bacteria.“We do this all the time,” says Weiss. “We take chemistry that didn’t exist before we made it, and we introduce it to complex systems like the microbiome, which we’re only scratching the surface of understanding today. What could possibly go wrong?”Reversing the antibacterial trendAt AO Biome, Weiss is working to reverse the antibacterial trend. Unlike traditional hygiene products, which usually focus on killing bacteria, Mother Dirt – AO Biome’s line of hygiene products, which includes a cleanser, mist, moisturizer and shampoo – encourages the growth of colonies of Nitrosomonas eutropha, an ammonia-oxidizing bacteria that is commonly found in dirt and puddles.Weiss says the bacteria used to be common on human skin until we became obsessed with scrubbing ourselves clean every day. AO Biome’s team, all of whom claim to regularly use the company’s AO+ mist, report that they rarely have to shower or shampoo their hair. By replacing the long-lost good bacteria to skin and hair, they say AO products help to restore balance, reducing or eliminating the need for soap and other products. According to the company, some of its customers have reported not needing deodorant after using the mist for a few weeks.This isn’t to say that Mother Dirt users have to give up on showering. AO Biome says it’s trying to convince customers that they don’t have to give up soap forever to use their products. Still, for those who are concerned about chemicals in their beauty products, probiotic skincare and hygiene product formulations are a promising option, as the antibacterial chemicals commonly used in cleansers and soaps are not used in probiotic products.Say hello to probioticsWhile AO Biome has been largely focused on the hygienic value of bacteria, it also sees promise in the realm of probiotic skincare that targets the aging process.Studies have shown a connection between bacteria in the gut and skin conditions, and now a growing body of evidence points to the value of topical probiotics for treating everything from acne and rosacea to wrinkles and aging skin. The bacteria that causes acne, for example, either irritates or blocks pores, causing breakouts. Allowing good bacteria to colonize the skin results in little armies of good bacteria fighting off the bad, and generally bringing balance to the skin. A clinical study published in 2012 in the Journal of Cosmetic Science found that a solution containing 5% lactobacillus (a bacteria commonly found in yogurt) was effective at treating acne.Plastic substitutes and other breakthroughs from 25 years of green chemistry But, rather than focusing on probiotic products’ lack of toxins like antibacterials and preservatives, or use of naturally occurring bacteria, many companies have been forced to talk to consumers in more general terms. “When we first launched, I was talking a lot about cytokinin and that, and people’s eyes would just glaze over,” says Claire Vero, founder of UK-based Aurelia Skincare. “They just weren’t interested in that level of detail. We got a little more interest when we started talking about the immune system and how probiotics help the skin’s natural immune response, but really people just want to know that it works.”Vero discovered the link between probiotics and skincare while conducting a nine-month experiment on psoriasis. “Patients were reporting really good results from using oral probiotics, and a lot of them were using creams too,” Vero says. “Inflammation in the skin is a big part of psoriasis, and one of the things that probiotics really helps with.”Inflammation in the body is generally accompanied by an imbalance in microflora. That imbalance triggers an immune response from the resident bacteria, which counteracts the inflammation. At least that’s how it’s supposed to work. In most modern humans, a whole host of factors has contributed to a loss of those inflammation-fighting bacteria; taking probiotics – either topically or internally – tops up our stores of good bacteria.Vero knew that inflammation also plays a key role in the visible signs of aging, and began to wonder if she could find further use for her probiotics research. “I wanted to see if probiotics could help with the everyday woman’s skin, to slow aging and put vitality back in the skin.” A couple years of research later, she hit on the right bacterial strain and the right carrier for it – and then launched her line.More and more companies are now entering the probiotics market, including L’oreal, Estee Lauder and Clinique (owned by Estee Lauder). Vero says that regardless of whether a product contains live bacteria, like Mother Dirt, or inactive bacteria, the most exciting aspect is that it’s a natural ingredient that delivers the anti-aging benefits of a synthetic product.“When we talk about ‘natural’ in anti-aging skincare, most people are using antioxidants and that’s sort of the first stage because they slow free radicals and oxidation,” Vero explains. “But beyond that, what is there? Usually synthetic products. Probiotics offer that next step of efficacy, but with a natural ingredient.”• This article was amended on 27 October 2016. An earlier version described Dr Larry Weiss as the CEO of AO Biome. He is actually the chief medical officer.