Giant caves/grottoesCathedral cavern, Langdale, Lake DistrictIt can take a while to find the entrance among the mossy boulders and steep woodland, but underneath, at 12m (40ft) high, there’s a space large enough to swallow a church. This was a thriving Langdale slate mine in the 19th century, but it fell into disuse during the first world war when men left for the front, and did not return. Now, a substantial network of tunnels remains. Nothing really prepares you for the sense of space when you first see the cavern, yet it is one of many extraordinary mine caverns in Cumbria, cut by hand hundreds of years ago.Best approached from the Three Shires Inn, Little Langdale (LA22 9NZ, threeshiresinn.co.uk, 015394 37215), and the footpath via Slater’s Bridge, a 25-minute walk. If you get hooked by the cavern bug, you could check out nearby Parrock and Hodge Close quarries, and Tilberthwaite area. Hidden coveCrook Point Sands, Exmoor      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Spot the cove ... Photograph: PicasaThe best secret coves are reached by rope or hidden tunnels. Between Woody Bay and Lee Sands is one of the best discoveries on this wild Exmoor cliff coastline. Route through a hedge tunnel for 20m, then descend a path with the help of rope and cables, to find an amazing sand beach completely invisible from above.From Lee Bay (EX35 6JN), follow the coast path to the west side of Crock Point, for 10 minutes. About 100m beyond the apex, there is a gap in the hedge. Lost ruinFussell’s Ironworks, Mells, Somerset      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tolkien land ... The ruins of Fussell iron works, which closed in 1894. Photograph: PicasaDiscover a world that time forgot. This complex of overgrown chambers, mill buildings, workers’ cottages, pumping stations and rusting hydraulics west of Frome was one of the country’s most successful ironworks, producing scythes, sickles and other agricultural implements. Now, the great works lie derelict and wreathed in ivy.Leave Mells (BA11 3PE) on the Great Elm road and find an iron gate and footpath after 300m on the right. Follow the stream for 15 minutes. Secret islandWorm’s head, Gower, Wales      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Named after the Norse word for dragon: Worm’s HeadCross to a tidal island (connected by a natural or man-made causeway) for a true sense of escape. This serpent-shaped promontory is the most westerly tip of Gower. Reach the Devil’s Bridge and find the hidden cave at the very far end, but return before the tide rises. This was a favourite retreat of writer Dylan Thomas, though on one occasion he fell asleep, became stranded by the tides and spent a night alone and terrified, surrounded by the rising waters.Head off from the Worm’s Head café (SA3 1PP, thewormshead.co.uk, 01792 390512) or walk round via the little-known beaches of Mewslade and Fall. Ancient forestStaverton Thicks, Suffolk      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Home to some of the most ancient trees in Britain. Photograph: Daniel StartVenture into primeval woodland at the Thicks, Staverton, home to contorted oaks and giant hollies. This remote forest contains some of the most ancient trees in Britain, several more than 1,000 year old: gnarled, twisted, contorted, many are hollow, others draped with ivy. If the wood sprites exist, you will find them here.Half a mile south-west of Butley (IP12 3PU) on the B1084. Incredible gorgeHell Gill, river Eden, Yorkshire Dales      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Like descending into Jonah’s whale … Hell Gill. Photograph: PicasaThe natural limestone landscape of the Yorkshire Dales creates a world of mysterious gills and gorges, deep within the rock. Near Garsdale Head station on the moors, you can descend through Hell Gill – a 400m-long slot canyon. Only a few yards wide, it’s like a faultline opened up by an earthquake. The water gushes in narrow chasms, and the pools below are heard rather than seen. From the Moorcock Inn, LA10 5PU, 01969 667488, follow B6259 north. After 2.5 miles, at the Cumbria border sign, turn right on to the track and the gill is above the farm and woodland. Daniel Start’s The Wild Guide to the Lake District and Yorkshire Dales is out at the end of May, £15.99, from Wild Things Publishing.