Isn’t it delicious how our country has turned into a nightmarish soap opera? Doesn’t it just set your tummy rumbling when you think about the 57% rise in reported racist abuse in the post-Brexit weeks, or that lark when Boris Johnson decided to compare the EU with Hitler? No, me neither.Biscuit makers, however, disagree. As do half a dozen other food and drink brands that have been racing to trademark the term “Brexit” for their product since the UK voted in favour of leaving the EU. British businesses vying to claim the term include a brand of tea, a small London-based brewer and a Welsh biscuit producer. In the US, companies attempting to make their product seem delicious by associating it with a political debacle include a company specialising in dietary and nutritional supplements and the Boston-based craft beer brewery Sam Adams, which wants to use it for the name of a “hard cider”.“It certainly seems to be the trademark of the month, put it that way,” says Kate O’Rourke, president of the Institute of Trade Mark Attorneys. “With the exception of the two rival alcohol brands, most of them should be able to trademark it, as you can have the same trademark registered for different products. In fact, someone already registered the term last March for a brand of mobile phone holders and crockery.”What is these companies’ reason for thinking the nation is keen for its snacks to remind citizens of the perilous state of the economy and government? That’s unclear. Sam Adams claims to be “not sure exactly how we would use the name yet”, beyond it being for a cider. Most other companies are similarly silent. Although, according to O’Rourke, “the Welsh biscuit company claims that ‘it might take our mind off the national nervous breakdown we’re currently experiencing in the UK’.”In fact, naming food and drink after Brexit seems such a daft idea, there’s a strong chance that these products will never even see the light of day. After all, most of the trademark applications were made within 48 hours of the result coming in – which feels much more like ill-thought-out opportunism than considered marketing. “You often see people file for trademarks thinking it’s a good idea and then reconsidering in the cold light of day,” says O’Rourke. “Businesses may find themselves wondering if it’s a good idea to try to promote a Brexit product when 48% of the country doesn’t agree with the result.” Still, even if none of these products hits the shelves, prepare for one very odd consequence. The company that has applied to trademark the tea is based in the outskirts of Hamburg. So no matter how well Brexit does in promoting Britishness, no matter how strongly it rails against the increasing Teutonic influence of the EU and attempts to proudly champion the nation’s identity, there’s one thing that will be inescapable. Brexit’s official English breakfast tea will be made by Germans. 