Catch up on the episode four recap hereBlimey. I think I might need to set up a spreadsheet to work out where we’re up to with everything. Perhaps I can ask Creepy Aaron to help. He’s good with data. But then so is Ian, the highly suspect ex-husband. And here he is, breaking in, presumably to steal his daughter’s computer which has something dodgy on it.And what’s this? A new piece of evidence? “It’s Arthur Tamworth. I don’t know whether my dog might have found something pertinent...” Ah, the old buffer. He was my No1 suspect, but I suppose this counts him out. Unless he likes drawing attention to himself. And here it is, the old sock. And look! The fishing twine emporium heir is a collector of dirty football kits! Fishy.Not surprising that the net is widening instead of tightening at this stage, with three episodes to go. However, I predict the possibilities will start to slim down urgently next week. And maybe there will be a crossover with the Danny Latimer storyline, now that Mark has located Joe Miller, who appears to be policing the Brexit front line. “Little break... Get a bit of space... Maybe Scotland.” (Also known as “Liverpool”.) As has been suggested here below the line, there is still a strong possibility that these three series will add up to one continuous narrative and somehow these cases will be interlinked.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   More than capable of violence ... Jim Atwood, played by Mark Bazeley. Photograph: Colin Hutton/ITVMeanwhile, the potential for new crimes piled up tonight as Ed Burnett lamped Jim, Cath got a murderous glint in her eye and Jim proved in his intervention with the taxi driver that he is more than capable of violence. “You were spying on me at my wife’s party?... I can find out about your wife, your kids, your pets...” Now we know Jim is good at strangling, at least. I fear for the taxi driver’s pets.There were some fantastic, claustrophobic scenes here. First, the unbearably awkward interviewing of Creepy Aaron, a man who is definitely guilty of something, even if it’s just maligning the reputation of the innocent mackerel. Then, the showdown between Trish and Cath. Here, Trish should have been in the wrong, having betrayed her best friend. But Cath came off as the guilty party, with the killer line: “Of all the women at that party, why would somebody rape you? Don’t make sense.” “Get out.”Finally, the storyline with Daisy, Hardy’s daughter, exploded. “Someone took my phone and in my phone there was a photo ... and they sent it to everyone.” “A couple of weeks ago? Why didn’t you say?” “You’re never here.” This felt rushed, as if it had just been chucked in to raise the stakes (and Hardy’s blood pressure). Slowly this is going to come round to Miller’s son, I feel. And why doesn’t Miller realise that her son is involved with taxi driver man’s son?With so much going on, you could almost forget that there are now another two potential victims. Laura, the newlywed, who has a connection to Creepy Aaron. And an unknown woman who has yet to come forward. Is this about three linked crimes? Or are they looking for three separate assailants?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lenny Henry as Ed Burnett and Georgina Campbell as DC Katie Harford. Photograph: Colin Hutton/ITVMy top tip? Watch what Cath Atwood does next. I don’t think Sarah Parish would take a role where she’s effectively a red herring. Cath is lying about something. But then so is everyone: fishing twine heir’s girlfriend, Trish’s ex-husband, Creepy Aaron, they all have secrets that need to be revealed, and they can’t all be the rapist. The biggest surprise of this week, though? The words “this past Saturday night”. What? Only days have passed since that (non-swingers) party. Wow. Have only a few days elapsed? It feels like months, if not years; only three more weeks until we are put out of our misery.Miller v Hardy: the score so farThe tension between these two has dissolved, which is surprising seeing as Hardy has now come under huge pressure because of what’s happening with his daughter. Nonetheless, they seem to have joined forces to try and puzzle out this jigsaw from hell. It doesn’t help that everyone they interview lies about something or other. “It basically just says if you’re lying, you’ll go to prison for perjury.” I love Miller’s friendly smile of doom.And then there’s the ever-present problem of having to prove that the police are good at dealing with rape cases. “We catch him, and he goes away for a very long time.” I loved their double act in the Creepy Aaron interview. “What did you do with the mackerel after you caught them?” “You ate all of them the next day?” But ultimately they’re both headed for a breakdown if there isn’t a breakthrough soon. “Just when it feels like we’ve got a grip on this, it starts slipping out of our hands.” “Ah, we’re clutching at straws.” “We are a bit.” Miller 0, Hardy 0.Not the usual suspectsAh. Now Over-Solicitous Vicar enters the frame, surely? Why does he want to do his compulsive helping on Trish? Is he creating bad situations so he can do vicar-ing on the victims? For most of the rest of the suspects, we had reminders of their potential guilt, but no more evidence. So it could still be: Trish’s ex-husband Ian; Jim (Cath’s husband); Ed Burnett (Trish’s boss); the taxi driver; the fishing twine emporium heir; Creepy Aaron; the old buffer who owns the party house... Have I missed anyone? Life lessonOnly a fool lies about mackerel in their freezer.Trademark Wessex words of wisdom“Am I attractive, Ed?” “I have to be careful... as your boss...” “If you didn’t know me, would you want to have sex with me?” “Er, yeah... Probably.” Awkward conversation alert. But this needed to happen so that Ed could feel justified in attacking Jim.“You’re stupid. but you think you’re smart. That’s a very dangerous place to live.” If Ed doesn’t kill Jim first, Cath’s next on the list to have a go.“Me and Jim, we had sex Saturday morning.” “What? ... Christ, his standards have slipped.” “He came round to look at the boiler.” “He certainly did that, didn’t he?” Boom!“Just because he’s an arsehole doesn’t mean he’s a rapist.” Good point. He is certainly guilty on at least one of those counts, though.