On 11 August 1916, the most high-minded and probably the largest hut in England, a refuge for soldiers on their way to or from the horrors of the western front, was declared open by Princess Helena Victoria of Schleswig-Holstein, granddaughter of Queen Victoria.The grandly named Shakespeare Hut, christened in honour of the tercentenary of the death of William Shakespeare, was built on an empty site in Bloomsbury, now occupied by the world famous London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. Shakespeare Hut's first world war refuge - in pictures Over the next two years, it would welcome in more than 100,000 soldiers far from their New Zealand homes. Queen Mary visited in 1917, took up her post behind the tea counter, and poured cups for all the men.The building offered a wholesome mixture of tea, billiards, comfortable arm chairs, narrow beds, the daily newspapers and performances on its purpose built stage by some of the best known actors of the day – all in a valiant attempt to keep the men out of the bars and brothels of nearby Soho.The regular entertainment included performances of Shakespeare including an all-female Henry V starring Ellen Terry, one of the most famous actors of her day.The New Zealand high commissioner will be among the guests at a recreation of the opening ceremony being organised by the school to mark the centenary of a temporary building which was fondly remembered long afterwards by many of those who used it and their descendants.Ailsa Grant Ferguson, a historian from the University of Brighton who has researched the hut, said: “In the context of remembering the relationship between Britain and New Zealand during the war, the Shakespeare Hut is vital. Not only was it a huge, conspicuous statement of British charitable support of Anzac troops, but it was the only physical memorial to Shakespeare built in London to mark his tercentenary in 1916.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Shakespeare Hut on what is now the site of the School of Tropical Hygiene and Medicine. Photograph: Courtesy of the Cadbury Research Library/University of BirminghamThe vast mock Tudor structure was the largest of thousands of prefabricated sheds hastily erected by the YMCA in the UK and on all the first world war battlefronts. Vintage photographs show it with fireplace, gramophone and potted palms, packed with cheerful looking uniformed men. It held such affectionate memories that some of the veterans campaigned to raise funds to build a replica in New Zealand.The school has traced some who spent time in the hut. William Henry Early, who stayed for several days in 1918, wrote to his family: “We caught the train from Liverpool to Euston station - we all voted the country ‘very nice’.” He became a hospital orderly, and came through the war without a scratch, despite regularly carrying stretchers under fire. “As one gazes on a batch of wounded right from the front, one can see the fear of death plainly written on many faces,” he wrote. “Their eyes have a wild staring look, although it is probably several days since they were actively smacked” - but added reassuringly “I’ve never felt sorry for myself nor felt homesick yet. Why should I?” The hut was built on a site cleared for a planned Shakespeare Memorial Theatre, which was abandoned because of the war. It was rented out for several years after the war to the Indian YMCA, and the rent helped support the first national touring Shakespeare company, predecessor of the RSC and the National Theatre. In 1924, it was finally demolished when the site was sold to build the present school.The exhibition and recreation of part of the hut’s interior will remain open on Keppel Street, London WC1, free, on weekdays and for the Open House weekend, until 18 September.