The Royal Shakespeare Company’s latest production of The Tempest stars Simon Russell Beale as Prospero, is directed by Gregory Doran and features a partly digital Ariel (Mark Quartley, sharing the role with technology giant Intel and Imaginarium Studios). This is a landmark production: one critic called Beale’s Prospero a “career best”.Women in theatre: why do so few make it to the top? But when I saw the play in Stratford-upon-Avon I came out cross, wondering how it’s possible for a company receiving £16m in public subsidy to put on big, expensive productions such as this in which female actors are so scarce. Apart from spirits and a goddess (who mainly sing and dance), there is only one woman in the cast: Jenny Rainsford as Miranda.Five years ago the Guardian published research showing sexual inequality to be rife in British theatres, both on stage and off. Two all-male Shakespeare productions had aroused anger; actors’ union Equity wrote to publicly funded theatres reminding them of their legal duty to “advance equality of opportunity”.One of many striking findings was that neither Doran nor Nicholas Hytner, then boss of the National Theatre, had ever directed a play written by a woman. In the top 10 subsidised theatres, 62% of roles and 76% of directing jobs in the previous year had gone to men. Debate followed, with parallel strands focusing on ethnic diversity, social class and disability in the arts.Since then, some action has been taken and awareness raised. But at The Tempest in Stratford I was confronted by the evidence of my own eyes: that the suggestion made by director Phyllida Lloyd in 2012 – “If I were running the RSC I would make it 50% male and 50% female actors, then I would work out how to do the plays” – has been ignored.Of course, correcting centuries of discrimination is not easy. No one can change the fact that most famous plays were written by men. Directors and actors need freedom to explore their ideas, and I’m not saying all-male productions of Shakespeare shouldn’t be allowed. We should thank Cheek by Jowl, whose hilarious 1991 all-male As You Like It starred Adrian Lester as Rosalind; and Mark Rylance, who at Shakespeare’s Globe used period architecture, costumes, music and casting to upend conventions about how the plays should be done.These pioneers reminded audiences that there is nothing authentic, or “as Shakespeare intended”, about stagings in which men play men, and women play women: like Juliet and Lady Macbeth, Miranda would have been played by a boy or man in Shakespeare’s time. He died in 1616; women weren’t allowed on public stages in Britain until 1660.As Elizabeth Freestone identified in 2012, the gender imbalance on our stages dates back to Shakespeare, whose plays long ago habituated audiences to dramas in which female characters are the minority. But the idea that women could take on the big male parts dates back a long time too. Sarah Bernhardt played Hamlet in 1899. Deborah Warner cast Fiona Shaw as Richard II in 1995.Why did it take so long for all-female productions of Shakespeare, such as Phyllida Lloyd’s recent trilogy for the Donmar, to be put on? Because of sexism. Even as men were offered new, cross-dressing opportunities, women were still confined by their sex, in the theatre as elsewhere, and defined through their relationships to men.Prospero is a patriarch, arguably a tyrant, and a few more women in the rehearsal room in Stratford would surely have made more of the sexual politics of the play. Elsewhere, though, there is a new urgency. In 2014 Maxine Peake played Hamlet at Manchester’s Royal Exchange, with Gillian Bevan as a female Polonius, renamed Polonia. Last year Warner directed Glenda Jackson in King Lear, while Harriet Walter played Prospero in Lloyd’s Tempest. This month sees another gender-fluid experiment: Tamsin Greig as Malvolia in Twelfth Night at the National Theatre.The director Simon Godwin has said audiences will “see the play from a new angle”. The idea is not simply to even things up but to open them out, giving the characters and plays new life. It’s not an accident that all-male productions came back in the 1990s. Thanks to feminism and Michel Foucault’s History of Sexuality, radical new ideas about gender were in the air. All-male Shakespeare was about going back to the bard’s roots, but also about recognising gender as a social construct rather than a biological fact. Actors and others were thinking about what it meant to be a man or a woman in new ways.More bold and gender-blind casting of Shakespeare plays won’t solve the problem of inequality in the theatre. Directors and writers face similar challenges, and companies can only be as bold as their audiences. Risk-taking requires subsidies to grow, not shrink, as they have been doing for years. But decades after all-male casts came back into fashion, Malvolia’s entrance is long overdue. I hope she brings the house down.