”Napalms the screen with waves of pornographic consumerist vulgarity…dredged directly from Tinseltown’s festering scrotum.”   Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back    Entourage    The Intern    Ted 2 "The whole dreary business drags interminably on, with not a single amusing or ingenious idea in its echoing metal head: a cynical franchisebot, machine-tooled to clank into cinemas and gouge money out of people."   Avengers: Age of Ultron    Iron Man 3    Transformers: Age of Extinction    Terminator Genisys "Could be one of those rare and terrifying serial killer cases where the psychotic culprit apparently intends to bore and embarrass everyone to death with bad acting."   Solace    Child 44    Regression    Criminal "Blanchett gives a toe-curlingly awful and Razzie-worthy turn in this tiresome aria of liberal self-pity and self-importance."   Carol    Truth    Knight of Cups    Notes on a Scandal "As subtle as a swastika."   Black Book    Valkyrie    Defiance    Remember "It’s less a movie than preposterous self-hagiography, more appropriate for Scientology or the Rev Sun Myung Moon. As cinema it is excrement. As proof of corporate insanity it is a valuable case study."   United Passions    Grace of Monaco    Alexander    Goal! "It is the follow-up that nobody much wanted to the film that nobody much liked, resulting in something even more visually elaborate and boring, and about which the number of tosses that can be reasonably given is lower than ever."   Thor: The Dark World    Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice    The Huntsman: Winter's War    The Matrix Revolutions "One of the most cancerously patronising romantic comedies of all time."   The Wedding Planner    Sex and the City    27 Dresses    My Big Fat Greek Wedding "This depressingly vulgar bromance left me longing for the days when mainstream comedy had more to offer than a bunch of middle-aged men morosely playing with their dicks."    Horrible Bosses 2    Bad Words    Dumb and Dumber To    Daddy's Home "Basically Team America: World Police without the jokes, and with more wooden acting."   White House Down    G.I. Joe: The Rise of the Cobra    Iron Man    London Has Fallen You got…Challenge your friendsSubmit answers