The co-producer of a star-studded Bollywood film about drug addiction in Punjab has accused censors of being Kafkaesque after they asked for all references to the northern Indian state to be cut.The Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) requested 89 cuts to the crime thriller Udta Punjab (Flying Punjab), including its title. They asked for all references to the state, including any of its cities, to be removed and recommended that the film be situated in a fictional land instead. Punjab, where elections are to be held next year, has serious problems with drug trafficking and addiction, particularly among 18- to 35-year-olds. Many politicians and senior police officers have been found to be involved in the illegal narcotics trade.Netflix to produce first original series for India based on Vikram Chandra novel Udta Punjab’s co-producer, Anurag Kashyap, blamed the cuts on the CBFC’s chairman, Pahlaj Nihalani. “It’s about my right as a film-maker and what I feel, and my constitution allows me to do that,” he told NDTV. “So why is this one man … treating it like his personal fiefdom?”Nihalani, who is a vocal supporter of the prime minister, Narendra Modi, and the ruling Bhartiya Janata party, has attracted criticism before for his conservative views and cutting of films. He has spoken out publicly against films depicting homosexuality and is known for his decisions to cut kissing scenes and expletives.Last week, he called for the prominent comedian Tanmay Bhatt to be arrested after he released a video mocking the cricketer Sachin Tendulkar and singer Lata Mangeshkar.In a tweet, Kashyap said: “I always wondered what it felt like to live in North Korea .. Ab to plane pakadney ki bhi zaroorat nahin [Now there’s no need to catch a plane].”He added: “I don’t know what’s going on. See, when you understand what’s going on you can fight it. When you don’t understand what’s going on … it’s almost like you’re in this Kafka-style [situation] … You know something is going on, but you’re waiting, waiting constantly.”Indian film-makers try to save vanishing language from extinction Ashoke Pandit, a member of the censor board, distanced himself from the call for cuts. “It’s a very sad situation where such objections are raised,” he said. “On one side our prime minister has done great things for our country in terms of development. On the other hand, you have a censor board chairman saying you can’t use the name of a state.”He added: “They want it to be called Udta Mars – or something on another planet, not on Earth, or in India. The film-maker is Indian; the state is Indian. Everybody is aware of the drug culture there. So why can’t you say Punjab? Nobody is holding politicians responsible.”Pandit said the board’s decision made no sense, as the film’s trailer and title track had already been released. “You have to think – will a decision like this work in an age of social media, of YouTube and the internet? Everybody already knows that this film is about Punjab. There was no political pressure to change the name. This is a creative battle; let us not make it political.”Politicians from the opposing Congress party supported the film-makers, who have considerable political influence in India. Rahul Gandhi, the vice-president of the party, tweeted: “Punjab has a crippling drug problem. Censoring #UdtaPunjab will not fix it. The government must accept the reality and find solutions.”Punjab has a long history of opium use, and a reputation for heavy drinking and partying. In recent years, according to UN officials, high unemployment has exacerbated the problem, creating a new generation of drug addicts.Why Tamil Nadu’s women want alcohol banned | Mari Marcel Thekaekara Dr Gulbahar Sidhu, who works at a drug rehabilitation centre in the city of Jalandar, said: “Heroin is by far the most common drug. It costs around 5,000 rupees (£50) per gram. Many people inject it into their blood, because it’s more effective, and so there’s high prevalence of Hepatitis B, C and HIV here.”In 2013, a former director general of police said that six years had passed since he submitted a list of politicians from all parties in Punjab alleged to be involved in drug trafficking, but that no action had been taken against them.Sidhu, who sees around 50 new patients a day, said: “It is well known that politicians and policemen are involved. In fact, so many of my patients are police officers – because they have access to drugs for free.”Nihalani was not available for comment, but the CBFC’s chief executive, Anurag Srivastava, said: “I was not personally involved in watching the film but the way the board works is that producers are given a hearing in which they’re allowed to raise their objections. In that, the board may concede to some things. The final order has not yet been issued.”