“They were one-metre square and they took up the three walls facing you, all these old women in the nude,” said Ella Dreyfus when I phoned her at her Sydney studio to ask about her work. It has been 15 years since Dreyfus presented her photographic exhibition Age and Consent, yet I haven’t come across any Australian artist who has since produced such striking images of the ageing body.“There were 20 images, quite large, just of the women’s torsos, so it was quite hard for viewers to deal with.” Feeling that headless bodies of women at any age might be confronting, I asked why she didn’t include the women’s faces. “In photography, once you put a face in, it becomes a portrait of that person,” said Dreyfus, pointing out that the other two rooms of her exhibition included older people’s faces. “Whereas if just the torso is there, it can be seen in a different light. It can be seen in a broader cultural context.” Looking back at Age and Consent – in pictures I thought of my least-favourite novel covers: the curve of a woman’s back, always in a red dress, her head obscured or blurred in movement, or cut off completely. In these cases a woman is simply a cipher, a mannequin on which to hang the reader’s imagination. She is only her body. Are Dreyfus’s images not doing the same thing? Is it a sideways step to celebrate the older body by presenting it in the same way as young women’s bodies have been seen for centuries? “Some say I’ve objectified women’s bodies,” said Dreyfus. “And they can run with that argument. It’s true, in a way.” But when considering her images, it is obvious that even if Dreyfus does objectify the women’s bodies, her intention is not to degrade her photographic subjects or take anything away from them. Rather, the images are a quiet celebration of older women’s bodies, refreshingly arresting depictions that both honour and discard the cliche of the female nude. Skin wrinkles and sags, bellies are marked with hysterectomy scars, breasts have a scattering of freckles. These bodies have been lived in and, in true portraiture style, they more than hint at the individual within.  How could I not have seen bodies such as this before? In one image a woman lies in a classic centrefold pose, the picture cropped at the shoulders and the knees. Her hand rests in front of her pubic region; her breasts tilt to the bed; gravity draws the skin of her thigh to the mattress, hinting at a straight whisper of bone beneath. In the foreground, light glints from her wedding ring, her hands the most evidently aged part of her. Curiously, by not including any faces of her models in this series, Dreyfus has given the viewer nowhere to escape to – we must look at the body only, and what an unfamiliar sight it is. While on the phone to Dreyfus, I found myself scrutinising the catalogue reproductions of the photographs, wondering at the way skin hangs loose, or gathers in neat furrows – I didn’t know that bodies could look like that. How could I not have seen bodies such as this before? It’s not repulsion that I felt, but not pure wonder either. My curiosity was tinged with something stronger: will this be me? The Age and Consent exhibition was included as an official event of the 1999 International Year of Older Persons, and the Reverend Dorothy McRae-McMahon, one of the first female Uniting Church ministers in Australia, was a guest speaker at the opening. “She made the comment that mostly when you look at pictures of old people, it’s of their faces or their hands,” said Dreyfus. “It’s really all we ever see of older people, whereas what I wanted to do was give an opportunity for viewers to look at other parts of the body that we’re never allowed to see.” My nana was one of my first, and therefore strongest, impressions of what being “old” meant. Until I saw Dreyfus’s photographs, I never considered what her body might have looked like – not her floured hands, her stockinged feet or familiar face, but her body. She and Pop lived on a dairy farm in Allansford, in Victoria’s western district, and whenever we went to stay with them we would take daily visits to the freezing, pounding surf of Warrnambool’s beach. Nana and Pop only came once that I can recall: a Boxing Day outing where they sat in plastic webbed folding chairs, their shoes kicked off, Nana feeling the warmth of the sand through her stockings. I remember being fascinated by Nana’s “good shoes”, the leather pushed out to accommodate her bunions, the shoes discarded as soon as she returned home; she was much more comfortable in her gumboots, tracksuit pants and a woollen beanie as she milked the cows each morning. I can see her feet beginning to take shape in my own – the outsized ball of my foot, the callouses that crowd my two big toes, winter’s chilblains flaring red. Sometimes, if we grandchildren caught Nana in a quiet moment – sitting in her chair knitting of an evening, perhaps, or kneading out the daily batch of scones to be baked in the wood oven – she would show us the sewing needle embedded in her finger, lying flat between two knuckles. “How did it get in there, Nana? Doesn’t it hurt?” We were fascinated. “I can’t remember,” she would reply, and we would wonder at living so long, at doing so many things, that you couldn’t remember such a momentous occasion as a needle lodging itself in your finger. Audiences at Dreyfus’s exhibition filled the visitors’ book with comments on the women’s courage in posing as they did. “Beautiful, scary, amazing, thought-provoking,” were the impressions of one viewer, and the words “confronting”, “brave”, and “challenging” pepper the entries, as do the words “moving” and “beautiful”.  People seemed pleased by the opportunity to be provoked and to find beauty where it was not expected Personal-care workers, nurses, occupational therapists, masseurs – there are many professionals who see naked bodies, and naked older bodies, on a daily basis. But for the rest of us it is such an unusual sight that we may feel uncomfortable and affronted. The bodies Dreyfus presented were not the buffed and polished figures we are used to seeing in fashion magazines and advertising, where male and female both are Photoshopped to hide blemishes such as stretch marks, cellulite, or scars – anything that might hint that the body has a use beyond the aesthetic. The responses in the Age and Consent visitors’ book were overwhelmingly positive – people seemed pleased by the opportunity to be provoked and to find beauty where it was not expected. I was interested to know whether Dreyfus received any negative feedback. She told me that there had been a little in the media: a handful of letters to the editor in certain publications (a church magazine, for one), complaining about the articles promoting the exhibition and declaring the images inappropriate. “Most people don’t leave a comment if they’re feeling negative,” said Dreyfus. “But there was one woman who told me her friend wouldn’t come in – she’d seen one of the images on the entrance stairs and refused to come any further. I asked her why not, and the friend said, ‘She can’t deal with her own ageing, she just doesn’t want to see it.’” It was a strong reaction, but an honest and perhaps not uncommon one. An integral part of Dreyfus’s practice is to spend time in the gallery during her exhibitions to see how people interact with her work. “I’ve noticed that an image on a gallery wall of someone’s body can activate very strong feelings in the viewer – their response is reflected in their own body,” Dreyfus explained. “These are ideas I’m very interested in: the discomfort and shame people can feel about their own body.”   Ella Dreyfus Age and Consent 1999. Photograph: Ella Dreyfus“The women you photographed,” I asked Dreyfus, drawing my mind back to the topic at hand. “Did they have difficulty with seeing their own body in the way you presented it?” I was thinking of one of the images in particular, cropped from waist to knee: a woman holding her walking stick firm at her hip, the skin of her legs draped like curtains drawn to reveal her genitals. I was also thinking of the time I had my skin checked for melanoma. As someone who burns within 10 minutes of being in the sun, skin cancer has always seemed for me a question of when rather than if. I’d found a service that created a personal mole map – every inch of your body is photographed every 12 months, the results compared to identify moles and freckles that have grown or proliferated. I didn’t mind the process, standing there bra-less and in my knickers, arms aloft and turning from side to side as a nurse snapped away with her digital camera. But when she uploaded the images to catalogue them and flag any suspicious-looking moles, I was dismayed by just how unattractive I appeared on the monitor. At the end of the session, perhaps sensing my discomfort, the nurse gave me a copy of the images on DVD and a polite warning to keep them somewhere safe. I doubted anyone would be much interested in those particularly unflattering images, but it made me wonder, how would I feel if nude photographs of my own ordinariness were exhibited in public? “They were all women I knew – family and friends,” Dreyfus told me. “Some of them came with their families to the opening night and were really thrilled. They were quite proud; there was a celebratory feeling. Others didn’t come at all, for mobility reasons or because they clearly didn’t want to see it. “One of the models was my great-aunty Carol, and an image showing her saggy breasts and open-heart-surgery scars was used on a news report to promote the show – she was really upset when she saw it on prime-time television. I felt terrible, and I asked her why she was so upset and she said, ‘Because it reminded me of the pain that I’ve been through in my body and all the operations I’ve had.’ It wasn’t the response I expected. I thought she was going to get cross with me, but she didn’t at all, she didn’t mind that all these strangers saw a photograph of her naked body.”“Were you surprised at how strong her reaction was?” I asked. “I was, but I could understand it. My first model was my nana. It took me years to convince her: I just applied subtle pressure every now and again.” Dreyfus laughed at the memory of her own insistence. “But when I processed the film and made the contact sheets of her images, I cried. And I put them away for a whole year; I didn’t look at them again. When it came to making some small prints in the darkroom, I was weeping over the chemicals because I was so close to her and I found the pictures … ” She hesitated. “Well, it was the vulnerability in the ageing body. It was too much for me, and I broke down.” While Dreyfus’s exhibition largely focused on the bodies of older women, the impetus for the project was a commission to create artwork for the aged-care unit of Liverpool hospital in Sydney. In the catalogue accompanying Age and Consent, Dreyfus described how the hospital was disappointed with her initial work, finding it too challenging to display: “There was an aversion to pictures that depicted illness and mortality, and an unwritten code that demanded I represent an institutionally sanctioned portrayal of the dignity and benignity of old age.” Why do some of us, like David Attenborough, live to 90? It’s not luck | Alan Walker While she fulfilled her brief to the hospital, she decided to exhibit her rejected photographs, alongside enlarged images of the patients’ signatures. In one picture, a woman brings her hands to her eyes. Her jumper is pilled; a flash of light is the glimpse of her wedding ring, blurred by her hand’s movement. Is she crying? Is she playing a child’s game of hide and seek? Blocking out a world she doesn’t want to see? In another, a man with his back to the viewer is bent forward in his chair. Striped pyjamas are peeping through the opening of his hospital gown. The stamp of the hospital is on the gown shoulder, reminding us that it will be laundered and worn again, by someone else. A patient care assistant carries a woman in his arms, his ID card clipped to his polo shirt, an ID bracelet around her ankle. The ruffle of her nightdress, her glasses large on her face. He holds her firmly, with confidence, and she holds herself the same way. The signatures of the sitters were an integral part of the exhibition, leading the viewer to ask: when it comes to ageing, what have any of these people consented to? What have we consented to? Some mornings, if I drag myself out of bed early enough, I go swimming before work. And there’s always one particular woman there at that hour, every morning, no matter the weather. She hangs her clothes in the changing rooms, leaves her walking stick on a bench, and walks to the outdoor pool and swims lap after lap. I don’t know how old she is, and it feels rude to ask. Which is a shame, because there are so many things I want to know, beginning with what it is like to be her age. A ridiculous question, I know: her age is probably more conspicuous to me than it is to her. She’s in her 70s, I guess, or maybe 80s. And it strikes me that my nana died at 74 – an age that at the time seemed ancient in my childish comprehension, but sounds much too young to me now. Among so many other things, I wish I had thought to ask her whether she liked to swim. And how did that needle really end up there, Nana, sitting so snugly between your knuckles?This is an edited extract from Melanie Joosten’s book A Long Time Coming: Essays on old age, published by Scribe and available from 30 May 2016. 