Most of us have somewhere shady in our garden: a spot under a tree canopy, a north-facing wall or an awkward corner overshadowed by surrounding buildings. While sun-loving plants will curl up their roots at the prospect of growing in such conditions, shady areas needn’t be boring. Creating a lush, verdant display by gathering together a collection of pots filled with bold foliage plants in cooling, restful greens is simple, and it can be the perfect foil to sun-baked patio pots and hanging baskets packed with vibrant colours.Types of shadeFirst, you need to work out what type of shade you have, because this will dictate the sort of plants you can grow. Deep shade will get little or no sunshine, even in the height of summer. Partial shade equates to about four to six hours of sunshine a day; this can be an east- or west-facing location, or the dappled shade under a tree. Dry shade is one of the trickiest conditions. You’ll find this around a large, water-guzzling tree or at the base of a wall where the rainshadow makes the soil dry. Plants in containers underneath trees with a spreading habit won’t receive much rain, either, because the canopy diverts the raindrops, so don’t forget to water these.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Heuchera ‘Palace Purple’. Photograph: AlamyFoliageTo create your refreshing summer oasis, turn to foliage plants. Bold, architectural leaves add a sense of drama, scale and even a degree of privacy if you want to make a secluded area. Japanese aralia (Fatsia japonica) is perfect for this, and although it grows to be fairly substantial (4m x 4m) in a shady border, it is quite happy in a large container. Not only do fatsias have large, dramatic leaves, they also have a glossy sheen, which is an important characteristic when choosing plants for shade, because it will reflect any available light. Other shiny-leaved plants include wild ginger (Asarum europaeum), a groundcover plant with dark green, heart-shaped leaves, and Japanese spurge (Pachysandra terminalis), a creeping, low-growing plant with light green leaves. Both grow to about 20cm in height, and would work well at the edge of containers.Ferns are essential plants for creating an abundant, luxuriant feel. The male fern (Dryopteris filix-mas) will cope with dry shade, so is ideal for containers under a large tree. For a moister spot, grow the scaly male fern (Dryopteris affinis ‘Cristata’). To mix up colours, add the smaller Japanese painted fern (Athyrium niponicum var. pictum), with its greyish-green fronds tinged silver and purple. Hostas are a classic shade plant, with textured leaves and underrated, pretty lilac flowers appearing in July and August. Slugs are a problem, but the blue-leaved varieties have larger, thicker leaves, so tend not to be quite so appealing – varieties to look for include ‘Sum and Substance’ and ‘Big Daddy’. For something a bit different, try ‘Purple Heart’, with its dark, almost black stems and lavender-coloured flowers held on crimson-red stems, and combine it with a purple-leaved heuchera such as ‘Palace Purple’.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Common male fern. Photograph: AlamyFlowersIt’s not all about foliage: even in shade, there are plants that will produce flowers. Fringe cups (Tellima grandiflora) are invaluable groundcover, especially for drier shade, and work well in a container. The scalloped leaves are evergreen, and from late spring to midsummer they send up tall spires of dainty, whitish, lime-green flowers. Tiarellas are fantastic plants with attractive foliage and bottle-brush, white and pink flowers from late spring right through to autumn. An added bonus is their delicious scent. My favourite is ‘Cascade Creeper’ with a trailing habit that makes it ideal for tumbling over the edge of pots. For bolder, more dramatic flowers with an exotic feel and fabulous fragrance, grow lilies. They like having cool roots and their flowers in some sunshine, making them ideal for a partially shady spot; grow them in ericaceous compost, because they prefer acid conditions. Not all lilies have a scent, so go for the orientals with their heady perfume and choose white-flowered varieties such as ‘Coldplay’ or ‘Casa Blanca’ to brighten up a shady corner.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Begonia ‘Little Brother Montgomery’. Photograph: AlamyHouseplantsSummer shade lends itself to the jungle look, so take inspiration from the dense glasshouse planting at Kew or the biomes at the Eden Project in Cornwall. You may recognise some of the plants as the houseplants on your kitchen windowsill or desk. While they won’t survive outdoors all year round, you can bring your houseplants outside from early summer onwards, once all danger of frost has passed. They’ll be given a new lease of life outdoors in the warm, humid summer air. Use spider plants, aspidistras and tradescantias in containers alongside small hostas, ferns and delicate-leaved ivies.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Use aspidistras in containers. Photograph: GettyIndoor-dwelling begonias, both cane and rex types, have foliage in fantastic shapes and patterns; very different from the brash hanging basket varieties. These, too, can move outside for a summer break. Try B. metallica, whose leaves start off red then turn green as they mature; or B. ‘Little Brother Montgomery’ with its maple-shaped silver leaves with dark veining. They grow well outdoors in partial shade, sheltered from the midday sun. Bring all your houseplants back indoors before the first frosts.