The energy secretary’s much-hyped speech (UK to retreat from climate change goals, says minister, 18 November) was a spectacular display of governmental cognitive dissonance – saying one thing while acting in an entirely contradictory manner. Amber Rudd offered warm words about “a new energy infrastructure, fit for the 21st century”, yet her department ploughs ahead with firing up outdated high-carbon gas power stations set to burn climate changing fossil fuels for decades to come. Shutting coal power stations is a good move – and campaigners should be applauded for their long-running focus on this important goal – but doing so while promising a wave of new gas power stations simply doesn’t go close to ensuring we meet the energy challenges we face.Rudd spoke of competitiveness being at the heart of our energy system, yet her government has committed to subsidising outrageously expensive nuclear power stations while slashing support for solar and wind, which are popular, cheaper and faster to deploy. In these crucial weeks ahead of the Paris climate talks the government is compounding the failure of its shortsighted energy strategy. Never has a greater chance for rethinking the way we power our communities been presented to us – yet Rudd and her colleagues look set to squander this unique opportunity by hiding behind hot air and spin while failing to take the urgent action needed to tackle climate change. Caroline Lucas MPGreen, Brighton Pavilion• If Amber Rudd is concerned to bring about a consumer-led energy system for the UK, perhaps her first act should be to abolish the coalition government’s 2013 statutory requirement for all domestic energy bills to include a standing charge. As well as feather-bedding the energy companies, standing charges are having a discriminatory impact on millions of low-use and/or energy-efficient domestic consumers, who in effect pay a higher overall unit price for their gas and electricity than do larger users, because any standing charge forms a greater proportion of their overall energy bill.For example, and with standing charges commonly £100 pa, anyone whose annual actual electricity costs are £1,000 pa (total bill £1,100) will be consuming 10 times the amount of power of someone whose electricity costs are £100 pa (total bill £200 pa), yet only be paying a total annual bill a little over five times higher. In short, standing charges require low-use consumers to subsidise the energy costs of larger users. Standing charges for gas and electricity should be abolished, and replaced with a single-rate tariff.Neil HornsbyInverness• Closure of coal-fired stations has long been seen as an important part of transitioning us to low-carbon energy so Wednesday’s announcement should not come as a huge surprise to many in the industry. As fears about our tightening capacity margin and escalating energy costs grow, cost-effective and secure energy should rightly stay as a priority alongside tackling climate change. The challenge is to achieve a balance of all three of these energy policy goals – to do so it’s crucial that Britain establishes a long-term energy policy that accommodates a broad mix of capacity types including nuclear, gas, carbon capture and storage, renewables and new forms of capacity like storage, demand-side response and smart meters which can help consumers control and reduce their carbon footprint and energy bills at an individual and community level.An adaptable and modern energy infrastructure is critical to achieving this broad mix of capacity. The recently announced National Infrastructure Commission is well placed to help deliver this long-term energy policy and modern energy infrastructure. The government must now build on their announcement by ensuring that this commission remains focused on these goals in the coming months.Dr Simon HarrisonInstitution of Engineering and Technology• Amber Rudd justifies her “dash for gas” on the specious grounds that it will halve carbon emissions. Gas production and consumption produce two greenhouse gases: methane, the primary product; and CO2, the combustion product. Both contain carbon but methane is a vastly more powerful greenhouse gas than CO2, and even limited leakage to the atmosphere can drive significant climate change. This makes the “right” energy policy contingent on the reality of methane emissions and here Decc has it completely wrong.Since 2007, methane levels over the US, the North Atlantic and Europe have risen sharply, bucking a previous slow downward trend. Satellite observations show that this increase is a result of gas escaping from production wells in the US, and peer-reviewed scientific publications show that the amount released is in the range of 3-15% of total production. This is well above the value that Decc currently assumes in its calculations on greenhouse gas emissions, and – alarmingly – above the threshold where energy production from gas causes more climate change than using coal. Amber Rudd must understand that no fossil fuel is acceptable for future electricity generation and that our security and future prosperity depend on a rapid transition to a zero-carbon economy.Professor Nick CowernYork• It is hardly surprising that the chief executive of Oil and Gas UK argues against fossil fuel disinvestment, but substituting one fossil fuel with another is not going to solve climate change (Letters, 18 November). This approach was tried by car manufacturers who promoted diesel instead of petrol as a means of reducing carbon emissions, but failed to admit that the technology needed to control other pollutants from diesel engines would inevitably compromise fuel efficiency. The same applies to the replacement of coal with shale gas. It seems attractive until you consider that fugitive emissions of methane tend to cancel out any benefit to the climate.In any event the industry has been advocating gas instead of coal for 30 years, so if this represents a bridge to the promised land of renewable energy, it is leading us in the wrong direction.Dr Robin Russell-JonesStoke Poges, Buckinghamshire• Amber Rudd cuts “subsidises” to renewable energy but never acknowledges the £26bn given to the fossil fuel industry as highlighted in the IMF report. Climate change is the most important problem we face – we are not capable of controlling the huge natural currents that drive our weather around the world.Janet RobertsChair, Pembrokeshire South East Energy Group (PSEEG)• Is it too late to give the name “Amber” to the next in the series of storms rolling in from the Atlantic?Colin BarrUlverston, Cumbria• Bryony Worthington (Stopping fracking won’t stop climate change, 15 September) claims green campaigners need to look beyond the future threats of hydraulic fracturing and worry about the current threats that are causing climate change. She is saying fracking will not stop climate change and the protesters should focus on other ways to fight climate change that could be done today. Although fracking will not stop climate change, it is a big reason why it is happening. The release of methane into the atmosphere during the drilling process and the greenhouse gases when burning natural gas all contributes to climate change. This is one big cycle that continues to happen if nothing is done about fracking now. Protests are a way to draw attention to this issue now and prevent it from being a future threat. Ending climate change won’t happen immediately. Change needs to occur continuously and these protests are the first steps to ending climate change.Alice LiangUniversity of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com