With summer looming, I’ve tried out jersey-and-shorts combinations from six companies, with prices ranging from about £40 to £130. To qualify, brands had to offer, if possible, matching shorts and jerseys, and they couldn’t be too boring. The jazzier the better. The problem, as we discovered, is that jazzy does not always equal flattering. And there’s a good reason shorts tend to come in dark colours.I tested all of the women’s kit personally on rides of 40 miles-plus, before handing them over to members of Team Glow, Manchester’s premiere ladies-only cycling club, for their verdict. We’ve washed them all at least three times too.We are happy to report that women’s cycle clothing has improved so much in the last few years. Not long ago, all shorts were boring black and the jerseys pink or turquoise, usually just a scaled down version of whatever the blokes were wearing, with no regard for our womanly curves. Now kit manufacturers are falling over themselves to bring out interesting girls’ kit across all price brackets.But what are we looking for in a good summer jersey? First, it needs to be breathable, wicking away sweat on hot ascents so that you don’t freeze to death on the descents. It needs big, reinforced pockets, to stash a waterproof, your phone and some food – and ideally a small zipped pocket for your keys. Most women prefer a full zip on the front – it makes going to the toilet much easier if you’re in bib shorts, and means you can fully unzip on the hottest days (as long as you’re wearing a base layer underneath). It must keep its shape after multiple washes, particularly in the sleeves, which can sometimes become unflatteringly baggy after a few wears.The shorts need a durable, high quality pad (“chamois”) which doesn’t rub one’s bikini line. Straps on bib shorts need to not do weird things to one’s breasts. Ordinary shorts need to come high at the back and lower at the front so that the waistband doesn’t dig in. They need some sort of gripper on the bottom cuffs so that they don’t ride up. And they must not generate sausage thighs, the effect where one’s curves bunch up into ripples like an over-stuffed banger.The list is done as a ranking, starting with what I liked the most.dhb      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The dhb Blok Micro jersey and Blok Fluoro shorts. Photograph: dhbWomen’s Blok Micro Short Sleeve Jersey – £39.99 Women’s Blok Fluro bib shorts – £34.99. Currently out of stock but dhb says more should be available soon.Women’s Blok Macro arm warmer - £17.99Wiggle’s in-house brand came out top in our test thanks to a winning combination of high quality and sensible prices.I received a lot of compliments in this kit. It’s jazzy without being garish, is extremely flattering and washes brilliantly. The shorts are particularly good: dhb have really nailed the chamois issue (I rated their Goldline range very highly last year for the same reason). The jersey could perhaps do with bigger pockets, but that’s a tiny quibble. It’s nice to have non-black arm warmers for once, too.Twin Six  Twin Six Queen of the Mountains jersey and shorts. Photograph: Twin SixTwin Six Queen of the Mountains Jersey – £70Twin Six Queen of the Mountains Shorts – £80This US bike clothing brand claims to have been “born with a fashion DNA. Styles that spring from real graphic trends, not the predictable regurgitation of last year’s predictable regurgitation.”It takes some guts to wear this ensemble but I adored it. Suffice to say, it is not a kit for wallflowers. Everywhere I went I attracted attention: shout-out to the older lady at the traffic lights in Northenden who said I looked “just gorgeous - don’t you match nicely?” Normally I’d say you shouldn’t wear a Queen of the Mountains jersey unless you have won best climber in the relevant race (or at least on Strava). However, the fact the polka dots aren’t all red but a mixture of red and black makes it acceptable, I think. It’s not only striking but really good quality kit. Surprisingly flattering too. The fabric is very springy and tucked all my fleshier bits in without creating a sausage thigh overspill. Great chamois, decent sized pockets (though one zipped pocket for my keys would have been welcome) makes a tip-top jersey. Highly recommended.Rapha      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Helen Pidd testing Rapha’s summer kit. Photograph: Rachel ConnerneyRapha women’s Brevet jersey – £130Rapha women’s Brevet gilet - £80Rapha women’s classic shorts - £130Yes, we know. But...Typically fantastic kit from the brand many love to hate (until they try it and realise it’s not just style over substance). I’ve ridden about 400 miles in the shorts and jaunty sailor-striped gilet already this “summer” – and can’t fault either product, beyond the price. The shorts, more hot panty than your average pair, are a lovely soft fabric with a substantial chamois which doesn’t steer into vintage sanitary towel territory. The waistband doesn’t dig in either. There’s not much to the gilet, but it kept me warm in 50mph headwinds on the ludicrous 110-mile Etape du Dales on the weekend and I didn’t overheat on warmer rides. The reflective features make it a plausible alternative to a horrid high-viz tabard on a commute too. But I wouldn’t spend my own money on the jersey, comfortable and stylish though it is.All three products seemed slightly bigger than last season’s equivalents: I’m a 10-12 and the medium was verging on too big.Café du Cycliste      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Helen Pidd testing the Cafe du Cycliste Fleurette jersey and shorts Photograph: Kevin EdwardsCafé du Cycliste women’s Fleurette jersey – €115Café du Cycliste women’s Celine shorts – €120I’ve been wearing the super lightweight Fleurette jersey for a year and absolutely love it. It’s really flattering, is made from a luxurious fabric and has kept its shape perfectly after more than 10 washes and many rides with loads stuffed in the back pockets. The arms are longer than most jerseys, which will please those whose triceps aren’t the most toned, but the sleeves are designed so you can roll them up to avoid tan lines. I wasn’t so wild about the shorts. They do look really good, the fabric providing a lot of support and tucking in my chubby bits, but I hated the sticky leg grippers which caught on stray hairs and found the waistband dug in. After one wash a few threads had come loose, which was disappointing given the price. Good Cytech chamois, though.Howies  Helen Pidd tests out the Howies clothes. Photograph: Adam KellyHowie’s women’s Team jersey – £49Howie’s women’s bib shorts – £59Howie’s women’s light merino base layer – £45Howies says: “We believe that making a product which lasts longer is better for the environment.” I really wanted to like the sensibly-priced kit from this ethical Welsh brand, but was left a bit disappointed.The small-sized shorts were a bit on the tight side for me, so I passed on to a more petite teammate, Martine, after one ride. Both of us were disappointed in the chamois and wouldn’t recommend them for anything over 40 miles. The wide straps were a bit odd too: a bit boob-squashing. But we liked the jersey’s red, white and green stripes, which Howies stresses represent Wales, rather than Italy. It’s quite a heavy knit for a summer top, which was perfect in 14-18c temperatures but would be too warm if the mercury goes much above 20c. The size was fine on me but way too big for Martine, who is 5’ 4” and hovers around 55kg (size 8 at M&S). It looked best on our pal, Alice, who is a slim 5’8. Best of the lot was the merino base layer, which wicked away sweat brilliantly and kept me warm and dry.Morvélo      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Morvélo Lopez women’s jersey. Photograph: MorvéloMorvélo women’s Lopez jersey – £60Movélo women’s Lopez bib shorts – £90Never before has a jersey made me look so fat. The pale yellow is very unforgiving and the weirdly long, baggy arms are seriously unflattering, though the pockets are good and roomy. I passed it on to a brave team mate, Christine. She said: “I felt good in it, but when I saw myself in a mirror that changed – not flattering and I felt like my belly looked like a horrid bowl of custard.” Neither of us liked the boob-separating single strap on the bib shorts, though our objections were mostly aesthetic. I found the shorts really comfortable on a 60-mile ride and the chamois was great. Wearing the set together takes guts. Christine refused, saying she didn’t want to look “like a cocktail with an umbrella in it”.• This article was amended on 27 May 2015 to correct a mention of the North Yokshire, rather than York, Moors in a photo caption.