Hi Parker! You’re not a blonde any more (1). When did you go back to being a brunette?I did a movie this summer and needed to have dark hair – she was a dark-haired woman, she wasn’t a bottle blonde. I was kind of waiting for the cue to go back to dark, and it was this little independent movie by this Korean director called Kogonada (2). He was super-talented.Christopher Guest on life as a baron and how wife Jamie Lee Curtis picked him out of a magazine I remember reading a lot about your hair almost falling out when you went blonde.Oh my God, it was crackling. The hairdresser now, Jeremy, he brought a whole bunch of hair repair stuff. He said we couldn’t even touch my hair without it falling out. I remember it was like, horror story. Now it’s healthy. They put stuff in it. And now hair we are!I dug your brief blonde period.My neighbours in New York didn’t like it, though. A lot of the ladies would pass me [and say]: “I liked your hair.” I’m like: “Thank you! Thank you so much. You don’t like my hair, OK. But that’s what you get.”It’s been 10 years since For Your Consideration (3). Is it wild to look back?I can’t believe it’s been 10 years! But I don’t really think about it honestly. I guess from the outside it looks like people have been waiting ... when’s Christopher Guest going to make another movie?    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Did you know he had Mascots in the works?That I can’t remember. Oh! He emailed me. Yeah, he emailed me, saying I have another movie in the works. And then I had to take care of some things in the country house, and I remember waiting because I was looking forward to what it would be. He eventually told me it was about mascots. A really interesting world... you can make a living by being a mascot! There’s a documentary on Hulu (4) that you can watch. There’s a father with a kids and a wife, and there’s the younger guy who can’t quite leave college. He’s been eight years in college because he’s been a mascot. He loves it because all the girls come up to him, smile at him. They go to grocery stores and hospitals and birthday parties. It’s a service, they make people happy. I mean, it’s basically a giant stuffed animal walking around.The town my character Cindi (5) is from is so small. Where would she even get the foam to make a costume like that? It’s really expensive. It was her idea to be an armadillo for this all-female basketball team.Purely for financial reasons?I think she wants to dance. This is a young woman who likes to cheer and wants to dance – she wanted to express herself, so she went to the president of the school to say: “This team needs a mascot!” I think she chose an armadillo because it’s a strong creature – and it looks like a basketball.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Susan Yeagley and Parker Posey as sisters in Mascots Photograph: Scott Garfield/API’m sensing you created a full backstory for the character.I have to, to have it make sense. There’s so much preparation that goes into it because you have to improvise. So Susan [Yeagley] and I, who plays my sister, we started talking over the phone immediately and became fast friends. That’s the beauty of that: getting close to people. We got to create a family. It was everything to me.I do press and stuff, and often think about movies and what’s happened to them. There are so few movies that still cast on chemistry. Now it’s often like: this person’s movies make this amount of money, and this person’s movie makes that amount of money, so let’s put them together. Actors are not able to play – they won’t be supportive, they’ll be competitive.Have you felt that before?I’ve certainly heard stories. Does improv terrify you as it does many actors?Mascots review: latest from Spinal Tap's Christopher Guest does not go up to 11 I still don’t think I’m actually good at it. It’s like a fucking miracle when I finish a scene. On the first day we got through it, I was just so relieved. Every time I do something, I worry it’s my last job.Really, still?Yeah, isn’t it crazy? I think that’s normal though.To my knowledge, you’re going through a bit of a resurgence at the moment.I hope so! But yeah, the Woody Allen movie helped a lot – a lot. Louie a few years before that helped a lot (6). But yeah, I also say going to movies now, it’s like, “Did you catch the latest exhibit at the museum?” It’s just that people aren’t going to the cinema any more.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   For Your Consideration … Parker Posey, right, with Christopher Moynihan, Harry Shearer and Catherine O’Hara. Photograph: imagenetThe fact that Guest paired with Netflix to release his latest speaks volumes (7).Yeah, I remember at a screening he was asked: “Why did you go to Netflix?” It’s going to play on screens for a few weeks, and people will hear about. But we just did a year ago a 20-year thing for Waiting for Guffman (8), and people were clapping along to the songs – they were laughing at everything. Ten years from now there will be a reunion for Mascots. And it will be more of an event, because it’s just too expensive to keep movies in theatres, and marketers feel they have to spend all their money on marketing, so they don’t actually spent a lot of money on a movie.As the “queen of independent cinema” (9), did you see this shift coming?I kind of expected it. I still expect a Criterion Collection-type, digital, curated independent-film channel that explains these movies and how to watch cinema, instead of the spectacle of it, which we’re still in. Everything is a spectacle now, especially now we can have our own spectacle of our faces and our friends. But you know, there’s so many great independent movies that are being made that just don’t have the financial support for you to see them or hear about them. But I think there can be a platform hopefully.What’s most surprised you about the direction entertainment’s gone, since you arrived on the scene?We’re kind of a different realm. I didn’t expect things to be so much about genre, didn’t expect Game of Thrones, and kind of the dressing up and the fantasy. You know, games, the gaming world, the fantasy world to be so strong. Gaming, fantasy, blockbuster books, movies – and now we have sports. But we don’t really have the dialogue about film that we had in the 90s with [Quentin] Tarantino. It’s weird because there’s lots of cool directors that could be supported in a bigger away.What’s it like going from working with Woody Allen to Christopher Guest? Allen is known having his actors stick to his scripts.He’s not so strict. I thought he was kind of loose on Café Society. He just wants things a lot like Chris. They want you to look alive, like you’re here to play ball. You’re not going to play cool about it, you’re going to show up. But I was blonde for both of those parts.I had to put black eye shadow in my hair for Mascots, to look like roots – and then I would go back to Café Society and they’d touch it up. It wasn’t like two days on this and three days on that, with flying back and forth – but they did overlap. So I couldn’t be out here to prep as much as I’d liked. Especially on the dance...      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Look alive … Parker Posey in Woody Allen’s Irrational Man. Photograph: Sabrina Lantos/ACMIFootnotes(1) Posey, a natural brunette, debuted a blonde do at the Cannes film festival in Mayfor the world premiere of Woody Allen’s Café Society, in which he sports the same hair colour.(2) Kogonada, noted for his visual work and film criticism commissioned by the Criterion Collection and Sight & Sound, makes his directorial debut with Columbus, which stars Posey alongside John Cho and Rory Culkin. (3) Christopher Guest hasn’t released a feature since 2006’s comedy For Your Consideration. In it, Posey plays an actor overjoyed to learn that her performance in Home for Purim, a period drama set in the American south, is generating awards-season buzz.(4) The Hulu original documentary series Behind the Mask chronicles the lives of sports mascots at different levels, both inside and outside the suit.(5) Posey plays Cindi, whose armadillo-themed mascot routine comes under fire because her team, the Leaping Squaw, could be considered cultural appropriation.(6) Posey has a scene-stealing guest starring arc on Louie in 2012; she has done two films with Woody Allen: Irrational Man and Café Society.(7) Guest paired with Netflix for the first time to get Mascots made. (8) Posey’s first film with Guest, Waiting for Guffman, recently celebrated its 20th anniversary.(9) In the 90s, Posey was often cited as the “queen of indies” for appearing in hordes of independent films during the period. Mascots airs on Netflix and opens in select cinemas on 13 October.