Justin Bieber is in a pickle. He’s been a teen idol for fully a third of his 22 years. For half that time, he has openly chafed at being loved for his labradoodle cuteness rather than for his music.The frustration frequently makes him act out: on the UK leg of his Purpose world tour, he has castigated fans for screaming; and on Sunday night, when a crowd in Manchester responded to that by booing, he walked off stage. (As he should have learned by now: don’t ever tell an arenaful of Beliebers not to scream – it’s more than your life’s worth.) He later returned, and talked of his desire to be respected, but by then the story could only ever be about the walk-off.Manchester lord mayor 'subjected to homophobic abuse at Justin Bieber gig' It marks yet another skirmish in his campaign to disengage from the teenybopper aspect of his fame. The screams, the meet-and-greets, the absolute fealty of millions of Beliebers – he wants rid of it. It was obvious which way the wind was blowing as long ago as 2011, when he spoke proudly of having worked with Kanye West, Ludacris and Usher. Being treated as an unlikely peer by top MCs turned his head, and most of his subsequent actions seem to have been spurred by the thought “What would Kanye do?” But would Kanye mime gigs, as Bieber has apparently been doing, almost shoving it in the Beliebers’ faces by not even putting the microphone near his mouth during some songs? And surely even West would wag a disapproving finger at Bieber for making a crowd of small children cry by arriving two hours late for a London show in 2013; many fans had to leave before he came on stage. Yet he feels he has more to give, and, in fairness, it’s not without reason. Bieber has played passable guitar and drums from the time he could toddle, and his singing voice is more than decent. The Purpose album, which effectively yoked those breathy vocals to trap, tropical house and EDM beats, won some of the best reviews of his career. Moreover, the newish direction has been validated by colossal sales and streams, with the album’s first three singles – Sorry, Love Yourself and What Do You Mean? – being streamed almost 3bn times collectively.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sweet 16 … Justin Bieber in 2010. Photograph: Jason Merritt/Getty ImagesSo, as he contemplates 2017, Bieber is undoubtedly wondering what to do. Despite his efforts, his churlishness hasn’t deterred the fans. He still has 89m Twitter followers, and had 78m on Instagram until he deleted his account in response to fans making jealous comments about his girlfriend. Trying to appeal to older followers by filling his timeline with praise for hip DJs hasn’t worked.Will nothing make the screaming stop? Every teen idol reaches this point. Assuming that they’ve managed to sustain their fame for more than a couple of years – which is rare; most stars are lucky to have two years of huge success, followed by dismal diminishing returns and reality TV gigs – they all wake up one day to the realisation that they’re sick of it all. With the exception of a few – Olly Murs comes to mind – whose lifeblood is performing in front of any audience whatsoever, screaming very much encouraged, there’s invariably that heart-sink moment when an idol acknowledges that being an object of worship is worth less than having the respect of their peers. A new book, The Dark History of the Bay City Rollers by Simon Spence, reveals that the most musicianly member of the 70s pop group, guitarist Eric Faulkner, was so demoralised by the intense pressure that he attempted suicide. Fellow 70s face David Cassidy, who saw himself as a “proper” musician/actor who’d somehow stumbled into pop stardom, took refuge in cannabis and booze. Robbie Williams simply went off the rails for a year. Ex-One Directioner Zayn Malik is trying to reshape himself by hanging out with the cool kids (he featured on a Snakehips track and his tattoo count has gone through the roof ).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Olly Murs, then and now. Photograph: Ken McKay/ITV/Rex/ShutterstockBut the options open to most people in Bieber’s position are few. Apart from the path he has taken, which seems to be predicated on alienating the people who buy his music and merchandise, there are three choices:He can follow George Michael, who ditched the boy duo Wham! at their peak and became a staple of the easy listening scene. He can adopt the Craig Logan manoeuvre: the Bros star got what might be described as the ultimate revenge on former bandmates Matt and Luke Goss by becoming an artist manager, and eventually the managing director of RCA Records. And then there’s the Geri Halliwell approach: she departed the Spice Girls in the middle of their white-hot run and reinvented herself as a shortlived UN goodwill ambassador, paving the way for an initially very successful solo career.But Bieber is only 22 – too young to become a crooner, too hooked on the attention to retire to a backroom job, and temperamentally disinclined to follow Halliwell as a beacon of selflessness. Any other ideas would probably be gratefully received. 