Everyone loves a happily ever after. Or, failing that, a well-deserved trouncing of the bad guy.Spread over two nights, the finale of the absurdly popular reality show Married at First Sight may have been light on storybook romances – with only two of the 10 couples walking off into the sunset – but there were two very public reckonings for the arch-villains.Sunday night saw the 20 singletons reunited – everyone from runaway bride Lauren to ditzy former model Deborah, male stripper Michael to 50-something single dad John, was back for a final boozy dinner party. And there were plenty of much-hoped for awkward moments with exes avoiding each other and a confrontation between two-time bride Cheryl and NRA-loving aspiring author Scarlett. Married at First Sight: ludicrous reality show offers flicker of hope in a cynical world | Alexandra Spring Yet the real fireworks were reserved for Monday night’s episode, when everyone came together for one last session with the three psychologists who had orchestrated the matches. The show has been Australia’s favourite guilty pleasure since it started. Ratings have skyrocketed, with an average audience of 1.9 million reportedly tuning in last night, making it the most popular non-sports show of the year. Even those who weren’t watching were following on social media – torn between the denouements on Four Corners and the denouements on MAFS. In fact, Nielsen reported the finale topped the social content ratings “with more interactions on FB and Twitter than any other program”.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The perpetually smirking Andrew, lost for words. Photograph: NineThere were plenty of mini storylines to relive: that time when newly wed Alene dropped her wedding ring down the toilet; or when Deborah couldn’t get over the fact that her groom wasn’t Polynesian “as requested” and all she got at her lousy wedding was non-gluten-free orange cake; or that time when stripper Michael recounted his checklist for a bride, which included good hair, a body weight no higher than 60kg and small ears. And there were some aww-inspiring moments, too: such as when the recalcitrant Simon finally said he “really, really, REALLY liked” his bride, Alene; and when everyone’s favourite are they/aren’t they couple, Sean and Susan, said they were sort of, kind of, maybe, still seeing each other. But the audience was patiently awaiting the undoing of Andrew, the firefighter who began the series with everyone’s sympathy after he was left dangling by a runaway bride but quickly became top douchebag after dissing his new partner in a gleeful and sexist rant at a boys’ night.Asked about the events of the night just after they happened, he claimed he couldn’t remember much – but, for the finale, the producers replayed the tape. For a moment, the perpetually smirking Andrew was lost for words, before once again denying his actions. “That isn’t me,” he said, despite the incriminating footage. And therein lies the rub of reality TV, sir.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Really Andrew?’: Just like the rest of Australia, ‘bride’ Vanessa sighed with exasperation. Photograph: NineFor all of Andrew’s dastardliness, the evening still belonged to Anthony, the man who stepped into the role of arch-villain as easily as he slipped off his wedding ring when the cameras stopped rolling. Reunited on the experts’ couch, his “bride”, Nadia, unloaded with full force. Her tears fell as she told of the “brutal” way Anthony broke off the relationship despite a heartfelt final commitment ceremony. For a moment, Anthony stared down at his shoes, before delivering a half-hearted apology: “I’m sorry that’s the way you feel.” How much of all this overwrought emotion was real, scripted or manipulated was debated for at least another few hours on social media. Yet, for the audience, the catharsis was complete. Behind the scenes of reality TV: 'You're a little bit daft to apply' The lure of this deeply silly but compelling show is in the simplistic characterisations and cynically crafted storylines – and yes, there’s something seductive about following along on social media. Real life is infinitely more complicated and relationships more nuanced but seeing the baddie finally getting his comeuppance was met with a collective sigh of relief. Given how rarely that actually happens in real life, perhaps that’s what we all needed, complete with string orchestra and cutaway side glances. And, for all those left wondering what to do with their Sunday nights now, applications for the next series are reportedly already open. 