What happens to a city when you give it a curfew? Late night partiers will be inconvenienced, certainly – and perhaps there will be a welcome drop in booze-related crimes as a result. But what are the broader consequences for the culture of the place, and the creative scene that can grow around it?On Friday, figures were released that show a 40% drop in live performance revenue at venues within Sydney’s lockout zone, which was introduced in 2014. In Guardian Australia’s own study, a general decline in weekly gig advertisements in the Kings Cross lockout zone was found.Analysis shows Sydney’s lockout laws led to 40% drop in live gig revenue To anyone who has been watching first-hand, these numbers are unsurprising. They correspond with a reported 80% drop in foot traffic, and the subsequent closure of live music hubs such as Goodgod Small Club, FBi Social and the Exchange Hotel, as well as bars, restaurants and other small businesses. With similar regulations set for Queensland in July, NSW premier Mike Baird claims Sydney’s lockout laws have curbed the assault rate in Kings Cross by 40%. But they have also damaged the local music industry and the creative culture that surrounds it.It wasn’t long ago that Kings Cross and Oxford Street were bustling – not just as a live music hub, but as a home for artists, musicians, writers and photographers to meet, experiment and collaborate, and bounce ideas off each other well into the night. Before the Keep Sydney Open rally, which will take over Belmore Park in the city on Sunday, some of these creatives spoke to Guardian Australia about the role the area played in their careers – and why they worry for a city without it.Heidi Lenffer, Cloud Control: the lockout laws cripple emerging talentWe spent our formative years playing gigs nearly exclusively in venues around Kings Cross and Oxford Street. According to our financial records, 80% of our live gig experience in 2007/08 took place at the World Bar and Candy’s Apartment in Kings Cross, and Spectrum, Ruby Rabbit and Oxford Art Factory on Oxford Street.The regularity of gig nights in the area, often with four different bands booked per night, meant it was relatively easy for a green band like us to play a show and be asked back for another. It was a gig at the World Bar where Triple J’s Dom Alessio first saw us play; he blogged about it, kickstarting a relationship with the station that’s been crucial in establishing an audience for us all over Australia.Sydney's fun police have put out the light of the nightlife. The city's a global laughing stock  Music is impossible to shut down entirely. New bands with enough hunger to play will always find a stage with a crappy PA somewhere, and new hubs will inevitably emerge. But a city like Sydney should be making choices that help grow our creative industries and facilitate artistic impulses, not force the community to find new ways to survive. The lockout laws were a clumsy solution to a real problem. We advocate for a smarter, revised approach to the management of the drunk and violent element of Sydney’s night-life, which does not cripple the flow of emerging musical talent.Cloud Control won the Australian Music prize in 2011, won two Air awards, and have been nominated for two Arias. They formed in 2006Briese Abbott, manager: bands need space to develop and improveI started my music career as the co-founder and promoter of a weekly indie music night at the World Bar in Kings Cross, called Mum. It was my first small business, and it was there – working late nights with local artists and arts enthusiasts – that I got my start as a business owner in the industry.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chris Rollans of the Saturns plays Mum at The World Bar Photograph: SuppliedMum gave so many big Australian bands some of their first gigs, but it wouldn’t have existed under the current legislation. We hosted three to four bands each Friday night, sometimes more across multiple levels, with eight to 12 DJs playing through the evening. There is no way we could have had the income to support all those artists if our doors had to close at 1.30am. Hundreds of acts, including big names like Cloud Control, the Basics and Philadelphia Grand Jury, may never have had the opportunity to play shows in front of a local crowd – and it’s these shows that can kickstart careers.The concentration of live music and dance floors made possible by the number of venues in a small walkable precinct is unique to Kings Cross and Oxford Street. Back then it was a thriving centre of culture and activity and, thanks to the walking traffic, venues could afford to pay up-and-coming artists. Since the lockout came into effect, that whole industry has decayed.Briese Abbott is the director of Umbrella Music, working with the Rubens, Cloud Control, and Urthboy. She’s on the board of the Association of Artist ManagersMark Gerber, venue operator: Oxford Street is a ghost townThe live music scene and LGBT culture both have a long, positive history in the areas surrounding Oxford Street. Musicians, artists, photographers, writers, performers, actors and activists call the area home, and have for decades. And in the early 2000s, Surry Hills and Darlinghurst underwent what can best be described as a renaissance. New art galleries; the resurgence of live music venues; the variety of clubs; the restaurants, the small bars and the array of eclectic retail shops on offer. Sydney lockout laws: alcohol policing didn't start with the Baird government| Liam Hogan We launched the Oxford Art Factory as a unique offering: a live music venue involving performance and installation art. It is only by virtue of that unique business model that we’ve managed to stay afloat in the current climate. But despite all our efforts we are still seeing a sizeable decrease in bar sales. Our staff and security personnel all have suffered a cut in working hours – future lawyers, doctors, musicians and artists who are putting themselves through university and relying on their hospitality income to do so.We are finding it harder and harder as the lockout sinks into people’s psyche. Foot traffic in the area is down by around 80%. Oxford Street on weekends is a ghost town most nights, where once it was a thriving and vibrant hub of activity. It is heartbreaking for someone like me who has lived and worked in the area for more than 40 years to see this once vibrant community being destroyed.After a long history with Oxford Street and its surrounds, Mark Gerber founded Oxford Art Factory in 2007, and was involved in the growth of Q Bar, Spectrum, 34B Burlesque and Vegas Lounge Angus McDonald, Sneaky Sound System: Sydney has lost its lustreIn 2001 we started Sneaky Sundays, a weekly club night just off Oxford Street. We moved the night to Kings Cross in 2002 where it ran for ten years; nine at Hugos Lounge and one at the Bourbon. This night was where we honed our craft, tested our productions and built our fan base. It was a meeting place for up-and-coming DJs, singers and producers; many got their start there, and went on to build careers in the music business. It was an incredibly creative and inspiring place to be.There’s no chance we would be where we are now if the area had been under lockouts back then. We released our first album independently and would work four nights a week, and play up to three gigs per night to finance it. That just isn’t possible any more. I feel so bad for people trying to earn a living as a DJ, musician or band today. The opportunities are very limited. The consensus in the music community is that Sydney has lost its lustre, its heart and its place at the top of the tree. If you create laws that effectively shut down all the venues that support music and creativity, then creative people end up leaving to the US or Berlin or London. It’s disheartening.It will take many years to rebuild confidence and reinvigorate the city. Let’s hope that, while that happens, the law-makers refocus their energy towards educating the younger generations that drinking is not a licence to be a coward or a dickhead.In their 15 years together, dance music act Sneaky Sound System have been nominated for fourteen Aria awards, and won two      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Australian dance act Sneaky Sound System: ‘I feel so bad for people trying to earn a living as a DJ, musician or band today.’ Photograph: Carolin SaageDaniel Boud, photographer: the next generation deserves what we had I’ve always lived in the inner city, and in my twenties spent my nights out around that area, watching and photographing gigs. I wasn’t a professional at that stage – I had a day job and just took the camera out at night for the joy of it – but people would see me shooting pictures and started to hire me.  For the religiously agnostic and sport-indifferent community that I grew up in, live music venues were our church.Daniel Boud Everything was done at night, and mostly late at night when the action would really kick off. I know photographers who could shoot about ten different events a night within walking distance of Oxford Street and the Cross. It’s a collection of elements that all combine to create a scene where creative culture can thrive. The Cross and Oxford Street played that role.  For the religiously agnostic and sport-indifferent community that I grew up in, live music venues were our church. A community of like-minded individuals would meet up every week, forget about our woes, forge romances, worship our idols and feel like we belonged. Spaces and scenes where that can happen are incredibly important. Now I’m in my mid-thirties with a daughter, my late night partying days are behind me and the lockouts don’t effect me a great deal. But that’s no reason to be apathetic about it. I enjoyed and benefited from an active nightlife scene when I was younger, and that shouldn’t be denied to a new generation. I don’t want a boring monoculture, with entertainment provided by corporate operators with a safe and conservative idea of what people want. We need small operators to take risks and foster a new breed of up-and-coming creatives. Sydney's lockout laws: five key facts about the city's alcohol debate Chief photographer at Time Out Sydney, Daniel Boud has been a finalist in the Moran Portrait prize, National Photographic Portrait prize and Head On Portrait prizeHarry Hunter, director: melting pots make for a better cultureMy parents are Todd Hunter and Johanna Piggot; they met in the heart of Kings Cross one night after they’d each played gigs. It was 4am, and they were both eating at 5 Star Kebab on Darlinghurst Road. Without that chance meeting, enabled by late night trading, I might not actually exist. In the years just before and after leaving high school, it felt like I was always in the triangular area that had the Kings Cross fountain in one corner, Lanfranchi’s Memorial Discotheque in another and the Basement at the third. That space held every possible excitement one could want: bands, DJs, fashion shows, performance art – some above board, some definitely not. I always felt safer at 4am in the Cross then pretty much anywhere else in Sydney – mainly because there were so many people around. People flocked to the area to experience new and strange things. Individuals of different races, socio-economic backgrounds, beliefs and sexualities stood in the same room and danced, watched a show, had a drink together. Sam, Erin and I started our creative partnership – and eventually our company – as a direct result of our time spent in the area.A lot of parties are now being pushed into suburbs with under-utilised and often illegal spaces. Unfortunately, a lot of venues have closed and a lot of people have lost their jobs, but a lot of crews have adapted and created more interesting parties despite the adversity forced upon them. But I worry that forcing night time events further afield means there’s less chance for people to discover these happenings without already belonging to a clique. Harry Hunter co-founded Entropico in 2013 with Sam Egan and Erin Moy. The agency works in film production, music videos, animation and design, and runs a party called Bad DeepElmo Keep, writer: a huge chunk of a city’s entire culture is gone I started writing at Sydney music magazine the Brag in 2007, when I lived in Surry Hills. In those years there were gigs every night, too many of them for our tiny staff to cover. There were so many opportunities for people to try out their stuff, between legitimate venues and warehouse spaces; it was a vibrant time to be young and into music, as an artist, a critic or an observer.  The pay was terrible, but we spent all day listening to music and arguing about it and interviewing rock stars.Elmo Keep A live review I wrote for the Brag indirectly landed me a job on Hungry Beast, after a producer read it and asked me to apply for a job. So many writers got their start in street press which, underwritten by industry advertisers, relies on a healthy local music scene. The pay was terrible, but we spent all day listening to music and arguing about it and interviewing rock stars, going to shows almost every night. It’s crazy to think anyone ever paid us at all.It’s not just the venues that we’re losing, but the bars where people make friends and lovers and connections, and find members for their bands and collaborators for their projects. The Gaslight hotel and the Judgement bar used to be so packed that when someone went to get drinks you wouldn’t see them for 40 minutes; putting money in the jukebox meant waiting three hours to hear your song (which eight out of ten times was You’re The Voice). It’s hard I think for people to disentangle romantic memories of their youth from reality – but in this case, the loss feels true. Being able to stay longer at the bar to keep the life-altering conversation going – it’s no longer a possibility. It’s not just that we all grew up and moved onward with our lives; it’s that those places don’t exist anymore. A huge chunk of a city’s entire culture is gone.Elmo Keep is a staff writer at Fusion in New York, who has contributed to US publications Vice, the Verge, and Matter, and in Australia to the Monthly, the Saturday Paper, Fairfax and ABC TV’s Hungry BeastThe Keep Sydney Open rally takes place at Belmore Park, Sydney, from midday on Sunday, 21 February