At the start of January, I woke early and packed a few last-minute things for a trip to Arapahoe Basin in the Colorado Rocky Mountains: my ski gear, food and my Leatherman knife, which I carry in most outdoor situations. In the scramble, I threw the knife into my food bag, rather than my ski pack.As an instructor at the ski school, I had been due to teach that morning, but the cold and windy weather meant no learners showed up, so I had the day off. I was on my way to get breakfast when someone called my name: it was Billy and Hans, two of my old ski buddies, who introduced me to their friend, Richard. We decided to ski together.We arrived at the Lenawee Mountain lift, which reaches 12,500ft. It’s a fast, fixed-grip chairlift, meaning the chairs are permanently fixed to the cable. Each chair has room for only three people, so Richard told Billy, Hans and me to ride together while he took the chairlift in front with two strangers. When the chair gets to the top, you just jump off and ski away, so those two people probably never realised what happened next.When we got off the chairlift, we couldn’t see Richard anywhere. Then we heard a scream. We turned and saw one of Richard’s skis near the downhill side of the bullwheel – the top of the lift that the chairs go around before heading back down. Then we heard more screams and the chairlift stopped.Richard was hanging from the chairlift by his rucksack, around 30ft from the ski tower. He wasn’t moving and the rucksack was around his neck; his feet were dangling 10ft above the snow. Hans screamed, “He’s choking!” then I realised Richard was being strangled by his bag. The three of us and the chairlift operator tried to make a human pyramid to reach him, but we kept toppling over in the deep snow. People were yelling for ski patrol, so I knew they were on their way, but I also knew we had to act fast.When I’m not teaching skiing, I’m a professional slackliner: it’s like tightrope walking, only, instead of static cables, I walk on two-inch-wide dynamic straps of rope; I also have plenty of climbing experience. I sprinted uphill to the base of the tower, which is 25ft tall, and climbed the maintenance ladder. To make climbing easier, I ripped off my gloves and the splint on my right hand, where I’d torn some ligaments in a slacklining accident. As I began to clamber up the ladder, I heard someone yell at me to stop. I hesitated, then carried on without looking back. At the top of the tower, I straddled the chairlift cable and shimmied along it, using my hands to pull me towards Richard.When I got to him, I jumped down into the chair and saw he was unconscious. That’s when I realised I didn’t have my knife. I tried to break the strap of his rucksack with my foot, but it was too strong. Then ski patrol arrived and threw me a knife, and I cut the strap. Richard fell like a rag doll into the snow below. He wasn’t breathing.Experience: I accidentally bought a giant pig Ski patrol immediately started doing CPR, and after a minute or so, he started breathing again; then they skied him down the mountain on a stretcher. People said I’d probably saved Richard’s life, but it wasn’t over yet – he left in a critical condition.That evening, I got a call from Hans. He and Billy were at the hospital, and Richard was sitting up in bed, wearing a neck brace but smiling: he had some broken ribs and a dislodged trachea, but was otherwise OK. He thanked me, and I told him no problem: I’d always wanted to climb a ski tower.Not even Richard knows for sure what happened on that chairlift. We know his strap got caught; my theory is he must have tried to ski off before the lift swung him back around the bullwheel, hitting his head. He wasn’t able to free himself before the rucksack started choking him. He was hanging like that for between four to six minutes.Being in such a near-death situation made me realise I needed to take more control of my own destiny. Two weeks later, I asked my girlfriend to marry me. There are always going to be things out of your control, but it’s how you react to them that’s the real game-changer.• As told to Abigail EdgeDo you have an experience to share? Email experience@theguardian.com