Returning veterans and hot-potato politics will mix at next year’s Sundance film festival, the mountain-top celebration of independent cinema founded by Robert Redford in 1978. Elizabeth Olsen, Michael Cera and Aubrey Plaza will be among the actors in Park City, Utah, in January, for the festival’s 39th outing. Plaza and Olsen star in Ingrid Goes West, about a young woman who becomes obsessed with an Instagram lifestyle blogger, while Cera has two movies playing: Person to Person, a New York-set ensemble comedy, and Lemon, in which he co-stars with Judy Greer as a man left depressed after being dumped by his blind girlfriend. The festival also boasts repeat collaborations from David Lowery, Casey Affleck and Rooney Mara, who follow Ain’t Them Bodies Saints with A Ghost Story, and from Obvious Child’s lead Jenny Slate and director Gillian Robespierre. They respectively star in and direct Landline, a 90s-set drama about two sisters uncovering the infidelity of their father (John Turturro). Another Sundance favourite, Alex Ross Perry, presents Golden Exits, starring Emily Browning, Adam Horovitz, Mary-Louise Parker, Jason Schwartzman and Chloë Sevigny, while Melanie Lynskey and Elijah Wood feature in revenge burglary comedy I Don’t Feel at Home in This World Anymore. Lily Collins and Keanu Reeves play a psychiatric patient and her doctor in To the Bone and Tye Sheridan, Jack Huston, Alden Ehrenreich, Jason Patric, Toni Collette and Jennifer Aniston star in Gulf war drama The Yellow Birds.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tye Sheridan, Jack Huston and Alden Ehrenreich in Gulf war drama The Yellow Birds. Photograph: APIn the documentary sidebars, key premieres include City of Ghosts, the latest from Cartel Land director Matthew Heineman, about anonymous citizen journalists fighting back against Isis, and Last Men in Aleppo, about the humanitarian work of The White Helmets. There are also explorations of the people who led the Ferguson protests, as well as films about the Oakland police department and migrant workers constructing buildings for the Qatar World Cup. New for 2017 is the New Climate Programme to showcase non-fiction films about eco-change. Titles include Chasing Coral, about destruction of deep-sea reefs, and portrait of a recycling facility in China and textile factory in India. Here are more details of the full festival lineup.US dramatic competitionBand Aid (Dir: Zoe Lister-Jones)A couple who can’t stop arguing try to save their marriage by turning their rows into songs.Beach Rats (Dir: Eliza Hittman)A Brooklyn teenager juggles a difficult home life, a possible girlfriend and an older man he encounters online.Brigsby Bear (Dir: Dave McCary)Claire Danes, Mark Hamill and Greg Kinnear star in the story of a man left adrift when a favourite children’s TV show ends.Burning Sands (Dir: Gerard McMurray)Should a new student respect the code of silence during a fraternity’s Hell Week or blow the whistle on spiralling violence?Crown Heights (Dir: Matt Ruskin)Adapted from This American Life, the story of a man who devotes his life to proving the innocence of his best friend, wrongly convicted of murder.Golden Exits (Dir: Alex Ross Perry)Emily Browning, Adam Horovitz, Mary-Louise Parker, Jason Schwartzman and Chloë Sevigny star in the story of how two Brooklyn families are changed after the arrival of a young foreign girl.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sam Elliott in The Hero by Brett Haley. Photograph: Beth Dubber/APThe Hero (Dir: Brett Haley)Sam Elliott plays a washed up western icon who reevaluates his lot after winning a lifetime achievement award.I Don’t Feel at Home in This World Anymore (Dir: Macon Blair)Melanie Lynskey and Elijah Wood star in the story of a depressed woman and her irritating neighbour who club together to track down the men who recently burgled her house.Ingrid Goes West (Dir: Matt Spicer)Aubrey Plaza moves to LA to try to befriend the Instagram lifestyle blogger (Elizabeth Olsen) with whom she has become obsessed.Landline (Dir: Gillian Robespierre)Obvious Child star Jenny Slate reunites with her director in this 90s-set story about two sisters who discover their dad’s infidelity. Also stars John Turturro, Edie Falco and Jay Duplass.Novitiate (Dir: Maggie Betts)A young trainee nun struggles with issues of sexuality, faith and the changing church. Margaret Qualley, Melissa Leo and Julianne Nicholson star.Patti Cake$ (Dir: Geremy Jasper)The story of an unlikely aspiring rapper from New Jersey.Roxanne, Roxanne (Dir: Michael Larnell)Early 80s-set hip-hop battles for a young female New York emcee.To the Bone (Dir: Marti Noxon)Lily Collins enters a recovery home in an attempt to recover from anorexia. Keanu Reeves is among her doctors.Walking Out (Dirs: Alex Smith, Andrew Smith)An injured father and son bond in the wilderness after being attacked. Features Matt Bomer and Bill Pullman.The Yellow Birds (Dir: Alexandre Moors)Starry Gulf war drama with Tye Sheridan, Jack Huston, Alden Ehrenreich, Jason Patric, Toni Collette and Jennifer Aniston.US documentary competitionCasting JonBenét (Dir: Kitty Green)Revisiting the unsolved death of six-year-old American beauty queen JonBenét Ramsey.Chasing Coral (Dir: Jeff Orlowski)Charting the decline of coral reefs around the world.Sunscreen contributing to decline of coral reefs, study shows City of Ghosts (Dir: Matthew Heineman)The Cartel Land director charts the journey of a group of anonymous citizen journalists who club together after their homeland is overrun by Isis.Dina (Dirs: Dan Sickles, Antonio Santini)Unconventional romance between a quirky suburbanite and a door-greeter at Walmart.Dolores (Dir: Peter Bratt)A mother of 11 founds the US’s first farmworkers’ union before being nearly killed by aggressive San Francisco cops.The Force (Dir: Pete Nicks)A look inside the much-troubled Oakland police department in California.Icarus (Dir: Bryan Fogel)A sports doping expose.The New Radical (Dir: Adam Bhala Lough)A look at the world of millennial radicals undermining the system through tech.Nobody Speak: Hulk Hogan, Gawker and Trials of a Free Press (Dir: Brian Knappenberger)Examining the issues of privacy behind the legal case that brought down the online media company.Gawker has gone. We can’t just look the other way Quest (Dir: Jonathan Olshefski)Ten years in the life of a north Philadelphia family who run a home music studio.Step (Dir: Amanda Lipitz)Pupils in the senior year of a Baltimore high school apply to college and practise dancing.Strong Island (Dir: Yance Ford)The fallout from the murder of the director’s brother.Trophy (Dirs: Shaul Schwarz, Christina Clusiau)A look at big-game hunting, breeding, and wildlife conservation in the US and Africa.Unrest (Dir: Jennifer Brea)The director documents her story after being left bedridden by a mystery illness.The water crisis facing California – in pictures Water & Power: A California Heist (Dir: Marina Zenovich)How water barons in California exploit the state’s water crisis.Whose Streets? (Dirs: Sabaah Folayan, Damon Davis)The people behind the Ferguson uprising speak out.World cinema dramatic competitionAxolotl Overkill (Germany. Dir: Helene Hegemann)A bereaved 16-year-old becomes obsessed with a criminal.Berlin Syndrome (Australia. Dir: Cate Shortland)An Australian photographer (Teresa Palmer) finds herself trapped in a flat in Berlin following a holiday romance. Carpinteros (Woodpeckers) (Dominican Republic. Dir: José María Cabral)Two prisoners in a tough prison learn to communicate through sign language.Don’t Swallow My Heart, Alligator Girl! (Brazil-Netherlands-France-Paraguay. Dir: Felipe Bragança)A 13-year-old Brazlian courts an indigenous Paraguayan girl.Family Life (Chile. Dirs: Alicia Scherson, Cristián Jiménez)A man pretends to have a vicious ex-wife and long-lost daughter to try to win the favour of a prospective girlfriend.Free and Easy (Hong Kong. Dir: Jun Geng)A travelling soap salesman finds himself caught up in a small-town crime.God’s Own Country (UK. Dir: Francis Lee)A Yorkshire sheep farmer begins a relationship with a Romanian migrant worker.My Happy Family (Georgia. Dirs: Nana & Simon)A 52-year-old woman decides to move out of the family home in Tbilisi.The Nile Hilton Incident (Sweden. Dir: Tarik Saleh)Just before the 2011 revolution, a Cairo cop takes on the thorny case of a murdered singer.Pop Aye (Singapore-Thailand. Dir: Kirsten Tan)An unhappy architect takes his long-lost elephant across Thailand.Sueño en otro idioma (I Dream in Another Language) (Mexico. Dir: Ernesto Contreras)A linguist tries to reunite the last two speakers of a millennia-old language who haven’t spoken in the half century since they quarrelled.The Wound (South Africa. Dir: John Trengove)The story of a factory worker who takes part in a mysterious, all-male, mountain-top initiation ceremony.World cinema documentary competitionThe Good Postman (Finland-Bulgaria. Dir: Tonislav Hristov)A postman runs for mayor in a Bulgarian village split by the refugee crisis.In Loco Parentis (Ireland-Spain. Dirs: Neasa Ní Chianáin, David Rane)The imminent retirement of a couple who teach Latin, English and guitar at a stately home that has been turned into a school.It’s Not Yet Dark (Ireland. Dir: Frankie Fenton)How Simon Fitzmaurice directed an award-winning film using just his eyes after being diagnosed with motor neurone disease.Joshua: Teenager vs Superpower (US. Dir: Joe Piscatella)A Hong Kong teen heads up a gang of children who decide to play truant in protest at the Chinese Communist party backtracking on a promise of autonomy to Hong Kong.The White Helmets leader: ‘We can anticipate the scale of destruction based on the sound of the plane’ Last Men in Aleppo (Denmark. Dirs: Feras Fayyad, Steen Johannessen)The work of the White Helmets in Aleppo, struggling to help their fellow besieged citizens.Machines (India-Germany-Finland. Dir: Rahul Jain)Work in a huge textile factory in Gujarat, India.Motherland (US-Philippines. Dir: Ramona Diaz)A look inside the world’s busiest maternity hospital.Plastic China (China. Dir: Jiu-liang Wang)|The story of an 11-year-old girl who works in a recycling factory and dreams of attending school.Rumble: The Indians Who Rocked the World (Canada. Dir: Catherine Bainbridge)How Native Americans influenced contemporary music.Tokyo Idols (UK-Canada. Dir: Kyoko MiyakeExploring the appeal of girl bands for Japanese audiences.Winnie (France. Dir: Pascale Lamche)A look at the life of Winnie Mandela.The Workers Cup (UK. Dir: Adam Sobel)Inside the labour camps constructing facilities for the 2022 World Cup.NextColumbus (Dir: Kogonada)John Cho, Haley Lu Richardson, Parker Posey and Rory Culkin in the story of a midwestern girl and an overseas visitor caring for his dying father.Dayveon (Dir: Amman Abbasi)A bereaved 13-year-old becomes part of a dangerous gang in rural Arkansas.Deidra & Laney Rob a Train (Dir: Sydney Freeland)After their mother goes into prison, two young sisters start robbing trains.A Ghost Story (Dir: David Lowery)Ain’t Them Bodies Saints director Lowery reunites with stars Casey Affleck and Rooney Mara for ghost story.Gook (Dir: Justin Chon)Set during the LA riots of 1992, Korean-American shoe-store-owning brothers befriend an 11-year-old.LA Times (Dir: Michelle Morgan)Urbanite LA thirtysomethings discuss whether couples can ever be really happy.Lemon (Dir: Janicza Bravo)Judy Greer and Michael Cera feature in the story of a man depressed after the exit of his blind girlfriend.Menashe (Dir: Joshua Z Weinstein)Yiddish-language drama about a custody battle in Brooklyn’s Orthodox Jewish community.Person to Person (Dir: Dustin Guy Defa)Michael Cera stars in an ensemble drama about troubled New Yorkers.Thoroughbred (Dir: Cory Finley)Connecticut teens rekindle their friendship and contemplate a murder.