I wrote The Museum of Innocence thinking of the museum, and created the museum thinking of the novel. The museum was not just some idea I chanced upon after the success of the book, nor was it a case of the success of the museum begetting the novel – as when certain blockbuster movies are transposed to book form. In fact, I conceived the novel and the museum simultaneously, and explained the complex link between them in the novel: a young man from a wealthy, westernised Istanbul family falls in love with a poor distant relation, and when his love goes unrequited, he finds solace in collecting everything his beloved has ever touched. Finally, as we learn at the end of the book, he takes all of these objects from daily life – postcards, photographs, matchsticks, saltshakers, keys, dresses, film clips, and toys, mementoes of his doomed love affair and of the Istanbul of the 1970s and 80s whose streets he wandered with his lover – and displays them in the Museum of Innocence. Museums should focus on the lives and belongings of ordinary people, just as modern novels do Back in the mid-1990s, when I first began to work on this idea, my dream was to open the museum on the same day the novel was published. The novel would be the museum catalogue. The order of the entries and their accompanying texts would all be planned and manipulated meticulously, producing a catalogue that could be read and enjoyed as a postmodern sort of novel. But I finished the book before the museum, moulded it back into a traditional novel, without images or annotations, and published it in that form in 2008. When I opened the museum in 2012, I realised it still needed a catalogue to explain the design and composition of the exhibition vitrines I had laboured over endlessly, and to show the objects and photographs included in the collection, so I wrote and published The Innocence of Objects.Now, there is a fourth work, and one that I’d never imagined when I first embarked on this project: Grant Gee’s beautiful, enigmatic documentary film Innocence of Memories. This time I’m not the creative force behind the project; instead, my role is simply that of creator of the film’s true focus, the Museum of Innocence, and author of the texts featured in the film.It all started when Gee visited the Museum of Innocence on a trip to Istanbul for the screening of his ingenious film on WG Sebald’s The Rings of Saturn. When I found out that Grant was interested in shooting a documentary about the Museum of Innocence, I was eager to get involved on the creative side. We met up in London, and talked for hours. Then, we met up in Istanbul, and walked for miles. Was it Grant who asked “is there anywhere in Istanbul that means something special to you?” or was it my idea to “show him around”? I can’t remember now. There may not have been anywhere in particular we wanted to go, but maybe our footsteps would lead us to discover and experience first-hand the spirit of the city.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Official trailer for Museum of InnocenceI ended up with conflicting emotions. As we roamed the streets, I was trying to summon up a past that has been gently fading away. At the same time, I kept setting my own memories aside and wondering which of the things we saw might interest an audience who did not have my experience of the city. Strolling through Istanbul with someone who was a stranger to the city I’d lived in my whole life lent me a different perspective on that life, on the city, and on my memories. When we come across something beautiful or interesting, how much of that is the city itself, and how much of it is our nostalgia? How beautiful or how interesting can a city be without the benefit of our memories? And when buildings, bridges and squares are demolished, are our memories erased with them?Innocence of Memories is based as much on the novel as it is on the objects that inspired it (clocks, coffee cups, photographs, clips from old movies set in Istanbul), on daydreams layered in poetic sequence, and on the actual landscape of the city. The camera’s exploration of the places where I found the objects for my collection befits my vision of what museums should be: the key to the future of museums is in our homes, in our daily lives, and on the streets. Museums should no longer concern themselves with history on a grand scale, the sagas of kings and heroes, or the forging of national identities; they should focus instead on the lives and belongings of ordinary people, just as modern novels do. Once I started wandering the streets of Istanbul in preparation for the novel and the museum, raiding flea markets, secondhand bookstores, and the homes of friends and family for old pillboxes, ashtrays, framed pictures of mosques, identity cards and passport photos, I realised that collecting artefacts for a museum is not very different from collecting stories and facts for a novel. I wandered the streets of Istanbul, raiding flea markets for old pillboxes, ashtrays, framed pictures of mosques The love story in The Museum of Innocence takes place primarily between 1974 and 1980, while the museum features objects and images used and seen by the people of Istanbul and the characters in the novel throughout the second half of the 20th century. But Grant’s curious camera also wanted to observe 21st-century Istanbul, as well as the rapid and vicious urbanisation and accumulation of wealth that has taken place over the past 15 years, and the way new skyscrapers now coexist with the city’s older, melancholy soul. What could we do?The protagonists of our woeful love story had died, and the house they’d lived in had been converted into a museum. So I thought of turning to a secondary character who hadn’t had much of a role in the novel but remembered the love affair clearly, and, having left Istanbul for political reasons soon after the events of the novel unfolded, had returned, 12 years later, to find the city transformed. Like me and Gee, she would now go for long walks on the streets of Istanbul, and I would take great pleasure in writing down her thoughts on the city, memory, and life.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A film still from Innocence of MemoryInnocence of Memories review - Orhan Pamuk's Istanbul rendered strange and beautiful As with the novel and the museum, this film stems mostly from my rambles in Istanbul. During the second half of the 1990s, I combed through the streets and neighbourhoods of the city centre in search of a building – one that I could afford to buy – where the protagonists of my imaginary love story could live, and which would later become a museum. (Houses and land were all cheap back then, and there weren’t many tourists around.) In 1998 I bought the first piece of my collection, the 120-year-old building in Çukurcuma which now hosts the museum. I kept walking, searching for old crockery, kitchen utensils, liquor bottles, keys, clocks, cigarette holders, and photographs of everyday scenes – objects that I imagined as part of the lives of the characters who had lived in the building I’d bought. (Istanbul’s flea markets, second-hand bookshops and increasingly popular collectors of everyday paraphernalia had yet to learn how to use the internet.)Around the time when I was setting up the museum, I also began writing a new novel, A Strangeness in My Mind, and taking long night-time walks around the poorer neighbourhoods at the heart of the city, home to the hero of this new novel, a street vendor. I would write until four in the morning and then head home, relishing the walk back from the office under the darkness and the silence of night. In our walks with Grant through the city’s deprived, dangerous, distant, and damaged neighbourhoods, we noticed that the same dogs that have been ruling the streets at night since the Ottoman era were still around. They were no longer roaming in packs, perhaps, but solitary dogs still padded patiently down the city streets, watching us with interest.On our walks, we seldom spoke; much like Gee’s camera in Innocence of Memories, we preferred to concentrate on the emotions evoked by the city’s darkened nooks, its rubble and shadows. Maybe that’s why Grant never asked me the question everyone else always does: “Why did you decide to create this museum when you’d already written the novel?” Had he asked, I wouldn’t have given him my usual answer: “I was possessed by a jinn.” Nor would I have told him: “In my youth, I actually wanted to be a painter!” Instead, I would have said: “Perhaps a novel and a museum are more or less the same thing.”Innocence of Memories is released on 29 January. The Museum of Innocence exhibition is at Somerset House, London WC2R, from 27 January. somersethouse.org.uk