My colleague John Comben, who has died suddenly aged 64, was a leading member of Incredible Edible Totnes, a project that plants herbs and vegetables in flowerbeds and disused spaces so that produce can be freely harvested by the public.He and those involved in the project, backed by the charity Transition Town Totnes, worked regularly on beds and an arboretum in the south Devon town. His career as a gardener and horticulturalist gave him a huge knowledge of plants and growing that he shared with project volunteers, and he supplied plants and seedlings.John was a familiar sight in his woolly hat, riding miles with heavy loads of plants strapped to his bicycle between his home and the many community gardens and land projects in which he was involved. “John was my inspiration, teacher and guide,” said Larch Maxey, Incredible Edible’s site co-ordinator. “Whenever I needed to know something about a new plant I’d turn to John.”John was deeply immersed in the local Buddhist and Quaker communities, sharing the weekly worship and meditation of those spiritual paths, joining in the social and community events of both, and offering his gardening skills where needed. He wrote essays on the Buddha, and on gardening and living sustainably, and worked and volunteered at centres including Eco-Dharma, in the Spanish Pyrenees, and at mindfulness community Plum Village, in France.He taught permaculture at the Buddhafield festival, and as gardening manager at Gaia House meditation retreat centre in Devon, and was teaching on a permaculture course at Backsbottom Farm in Lancaster when he died there from heart failure.John was born in Ivinghoe, a small village near Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire, to Walter Comben, an electrical engineer, and his wife, Renee. The family home had a very large garden, which helped to shape John’s future plans.John studied engineering at Bristol University, but chose to work on the land, taking a job as a farm labourer close to his village. In his 20s, he worked in the library service, including in Camden Library’s reference section. And while in London, he joined the Ecology party (now the Green party), Friends of the Earth and the Permaculture Association. He studied horticulture, eventually leaving his library job to work full-time in gardening and permaculture.During the mid-1980s, John developed an interest in intentional communities with permaculture principles and he went to work at Tamarisk Farm, a long-established organic farm in West Dorset. He lived and worked in Dorset and East Devon for the next 15 years or so, travelling throughout England with his gardening and permaculture work, but returning to Ivinghoe each winter.John supported the charity Plants for a Future, a project to establish an intentional permaculture community on land in north Devon. When planning wrangles prevented the community from taking root, the land was sold on; the profit helped to fund a database detailing more than 7,000 plants and their properties.From 2011 John lived in Abbotskerswell, south Devon, a former council house that he had recently converted with solar panels and where he had made a garden of raised beds and fruit trees. He is survived by his older brother, Andrew, and younger brother, Peter.