Friends of Victoria Wood have been speaking about how the performer kept her illness secret as shocked colleagues continue to come to terms with her death.The comedian, actor and writer died of cancer at home with her family. She was 62.The actor Julie Walters, who formed a lifelong friendship with Wood while auditioning at Manchester Polytechnic’s student theatre when she was a teenager, said the death of her co-star was “incalculable” and she was “too heart sore” to comment further. Duncan Preston, who appeared with Wood in the BBC sitcom Dinnerladies and As Seen On TV, told the Daily Mail he had had no idea she was ill until her family called him with news of her death. “I don’t think many people did know,” he said. “She’d had cancer for about six months.” Writing in the Daily Mirror he added: “I am shocked. All I know is it’s a great loss to comedy in this country. She was a very special writer and the world has lost a great, great comedian.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Victoria Wood (centre) in Acorn Antiques with (left to right) Julie Walters, Duncan Preston and Celia Imrie. Photograph: Chris Capstick/BBCBorn in Prestwich, Lancashire, Wood rose to fame in the 1980s as one of Britain’s most popular standup comics. Her elder brother, Chris Foote Wood, said it was only after years of struggle that she achieved national acclaim.“It wasn’t just that Victoria was hugely talented in so many different fields, she was also outstanding in her tremendous, singleminded drive and determination to pursue her chosen career.“Victoria’s two children, my niece Grace and nephew Henry, will be absolutely devastated to lose their mother at such a relatively young age.”The comedian Caroline Aherne said Wood had a “rare gift of making us laugh at the mundanities of life with a humour that was never cruel and only ever warm. A true comic genius.” The impressionist Rory Bremner said:Rory Bremner tweet In 1997 Wood was made an OBE in the Queen’s birthday honours, later being made a CBE in 2008. The comedian Jennifer Saunders said: “She was truly an inspiration and had so much left to give and we won’t see it.”David Cameron called Wood a national treasure – a title Wood had sought to dismiss last year. “Everyone’s a national treasure these days; you can’t move for them,” she told the Daily Mail. “But there should only ever be one at a time. For years, it was Dame Thora Hird. After she died, it was going to be Judi Dench, but then Joanna Lumley saved the Gurkhas so she got the gig.”Tony Hall, director general of the BBC, paid tribute to Wood’s “array of talents”.“People identified with her warmth and great charm. She brought people from all walks of life together and made them laugh and cry. She will be greatly missed and our thoughts are with her friends and family,” Hall said.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Victoria Wood won two Bafta awards for Housewife, 49. Photograph: Max Nash/APWood was the youngest of four children. Her mother, she once said, “had no sense of humour” but Wood knew from an early age she wanted to be a performer. After studying drama at the University of Birmingham, she won the ITV talent show New Faces and in 1976 landed a regular role on the BBC show That’s Life.Sir Lenny Henry, who won the New Faces talent show a year earlier, said: “I am devastated – this is very, very sad news. Victoria will be sorely missed. Always funny, she worked incredibly hard. A killer standup and a fantastic songwriter.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Victoria Wood: her funniest moments - videoIn the the 1980s Wood cemented her place as one of the Britain’s most popular comics with shows including Victoria Wood as Seen on TV and Wood and Walters alongside her longtime collaborator Walters. She also wrote and starred in Dinnerladies, which ran for two years from 1998. Victoria Wood obituary Over four decades in television, Wood won numerous awards, including a Bafta in 1986 for her sketch show and again in 2006 for both writing and acting in Housewife, 49, based on the diaries of Nella Last. Celia Imrie, who along with Walters starred in some of Wood’s best loved sketches, said in a statement: “Victoria was a dear, dear pal. I am beyond sad and shocked as I had no idea she was ill. Vic was always so generous, giving away her genius lines to us all. Her writing and her music brought such joy and laughter to the world. I have so much to thank her for and feel mighty proud to have been in her gang.”Wood continued writing and performing until late last year. In December she co-starred with Timothy Spall in a Sky adaptation of Fungus the Bogeyman. Wood also wrote extensively for theatre. In 2005, she penned a musical, Acorn Antiques, based on the long-running feature in her sketch show, and her play, The Day We Sang, about a famous recording of Purcell’s Nymphs and Shepherds made by Manchester Children’s Choir, debuted at Manchester international festival in 2011. She also wrote a stage version of Housewife, 49. Wood married the magician Geoffrey Durham – known on stage as the Great Soprendo – in March 1980, and the pair had two children before separating in 2002. Her long-term manager and friend, Phil McIntyre, said: “Victoria has been a part of our lives as a friend, devoted mother and national treasure for 30 years. She was always modest, generous and undemanding. A super person and a super and unique talent. There will be an unfillable void left on all levels. We’ll miss her deeply.”