Chris Evans and Matt LeBlanc will be helping to promote the new Top Gear, the BBC’s most valuable asset, to hundreds of foreign broadcasters at a key sales event starting this weekend.BBC Worldwide, the corporation’s commerial arm, has called in Evans, the Friends star and other presenters in the new Top Gear lineup to mount a PR offensive to promote the show at its annual programming showcase in Liverpool, which starts on Sunday.The three-day showcase , now in its 40th year, will be attended by more than 750 programme buyers given access to 6,000 hours of shows and deals. It will make up a significant proportion of the £350m-plus BBC Worldwide hopes to make selling programmes across the whole of 2016.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Matt LeBlanc and Chris Evans drive around London before Sunday’s event to promote Top Gear internationally. Photograph: Beretta Sims/Rex/ShutterstockThere will be plenty of stars and popular shows on display, including Rowan Atkinson’s return to TV as pipe-smoking policeman Jules Maigret; the adaptation of Len Deighton’s spy novel SS-GB by 007 writers Robert Wade and Neal Purvis; Amazon’s first UK original production in period fashion drama The Collection; and the eagerly awaited follow up to David Attenborough’s 2006 hit Planet Earth.However, for BBC bosses the focus of the event will be how attendees react to the new-look Top Gear following the departure of Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May. Getting foreign buyers on board will be crucial to the commercial success of the £50m global hit franchise’s relaunch.Top Gear's Chris Evans and Matt LeBlanc: start of a special relationship? “We’ve got some big launches this year but nothing as big as Top Gear,” said Paul Dempsey, president of global markets for BBC Worldwide. “It is one of the biggest shows in the world so any changes to it are an event; this will be the major launch of Top Gear to our customer base.”With the licence fee-funded BBC forced to find hundreds of millions to cover the £750m cost of free TV licences for over-75s, the pressure has mounted on BBC Worldwide to squeeze much more money out of the corporation’s assets to help bridge the gap. BBC Worldwide returned a record £226.5m to the BBC in the year to the end of March, up almost a third year-on-year. “To make that number real we put it in terms of what value that brings to the BBC,” said Dempsey. “What we gave back last year was 12%-13% of the total amount the BBC spent on content.”BBC Worldwide has responded to the pressure by pledging to return £1.2bn over five years from the 2016/2017 financial year, an increase of more than 15% on the returns of the previous five year period.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chris Evans driving near BBC Broadcasting House in London. Photograph: Beretta Sims/Rex/Shutterstock“If you look at the amount BBC Worldwide is currently able to return, and how the business is performing, it looks to be a reasonable target they have set,” said Toby Syfret, analyst at Enders.With more than 350 million weekly viewers, Top Gear holds the Guinness world record as the most watched factual TV programme in the world.BBC Worldwide chiefs are well aware of the benefit of signing a global star in LeBlanc – a number of broadcasters are known to have already acquired the new Top Gear unseen. It is paying for more than half of his £500,000 salary in an agreement that requires the Friends star to promote Top Gear internationally.Top Gear is one of handful of mega brands that BBC Worldwide relies on to drive its sales and distribution arm, including Sherlock, Dancing with The Stars – the international version of Strictly Come Dancing – Doctor Who and natural history documentaries. However, a number of those major brands have waned meaning it cannot afford for Top Gear to dip commercially in its new guise.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Matt LeBlanc and Chris Evans. Photograph: Beretta Sims/Rex/ShutterstockDoctor Who was BBC Worldwide’s top-selling programme in 2014/15 licensed to 189 territories. However, the show has suffered poor ratings in the UK and the BBC is resting it this year, as lead writer and executive producer Steven Moffat is replaced by Broadchurch creator Chris Chibnall, meaning there will not be a new series to sell.“If you look back at BBC Worldwide over the last decade they have had three or four titles that have generated most of its revenues,” said one TV industry executive. “Dancing with the Stars is still doing well but it has peaked; Doctor Who is in trouble in the UK and being rested this year; we are awaiting the replacement for Planet Earth and there is huge risk around Top Gear.”Dempsey disagrees about the reliance on a few big global beasts pointing instead to the strength of shows such as Luther, Silent Witness, Happy Valley and War and Peace.“Yes, there are big global powerhouse brands,” he said. “But we are also blessed with a rich, ongoing catalogue and particularly strong enduring dramas.”The performance of Dempsey’s sales operation in Liverpool, and particularly Top Gear, is a bellwether for BBC Worldwide’s capability to meet its wider financial goals.“I’m very confident,” said Dempsey. “The TV sales element of our business, around of third of total [£1bn] revenues, is arguably the core of our business. I’m confident with just a few weeks of our financial year left we will see considerable year-on-year growth.”