If you only see your sofa during the hours of darkness you might have missed The Coroner, a near-perfect daytime drama from the typewriter of Sally Abbott. It arrived in 2015, had two very successful series on BBC1, won awards and – you’re ahead of me – has just been inexplicably cancelled by its broadcaster to the dismay of fans. It stars Claire Goose as solicitor Jane Kennedy, who goes home to Devon to become a small-town coroner in the place where she grew up. It’s a position which conveniently gives her plenty of scope to investigate all the unexplained stiffs who turn up with alarming regularity in the fictional seaside town of Lighthaven. It’s also home to her childhood sweetheart, Davey Higgins (Matt Bardock), now a police detective. They have unresolved romantic tension and a banteriffic ability to solve puzzles in the manner of Moonlighting’s Maddie and David but with more coastal paths and pints of real ale.With its perfectly cast supporting characters, the show has got such a community feel that it ingratiated itself like an old pal from the first episode – something viewers were quick to notice. Abbott hit the ground running and made the launch look easy, creating a series of standalone mysteries against a backdrop of rural pulchritude and cut through with the kind of humour you could warm your hands on. Not enough credit goes to the creators of daytime drama, who write effectively with one hand tied behind their back, so restricted are they in where their stories can go in a post-lunchtime slot.Most maddening of all, this isn’t a show just beloved of a hardcore few. Its ratings were exceptional, gaining an even greater following when series one was repeated and busting the one million mark. Many assumed the jump to primetime was inevitable as the show went from strength to strength, winning awards and good will wherever it went. Fans have been reported as far afield as Kuala Lumpur. But it’s going and the faithful are rightly fuming.The inevitable online petition has started to gain ground and the show’s hashtag – #TheCoroner – trended for several hours on Thursday in the wake of the announcement that it would not be back for series three.On a personal note, I’m gutted series two ended on such a wonderfully tender scene between Jane and Davey, who finally realised that a vindictive school friend thwarted their young love all those years ago and changed the course of their lives forever. They went on to marry the wrong people and both subsequently divorced. I know it’s two actors pretending, but they were on the verge of something important and the BBC is now that jealous school friend, standing in the way of their reunion and frankly in the way of my own delight in it.We’ve been here before and shows are cancelled all the time when the ratings disappoint or a broadcaster wants to go in a different direction. But this shouldn’t happen when a show is so blatantly nailing it and riding high. Whether a fan outcry can change the outcome remains to be seen, but it’s happened before I and dearly hope it succeeds for The Coroner. 