It is good that neuroscientists are taking seriously their responsibility to improve education (No evidence to back idea of learning styles, Letters, 13 March). However, debunking can oversimplify matters.My favourite example showing that learning styles do exist, but that focusing on them does not improve learning, comes from football. We easily agree that most players have a preferred foot (typically the right one). However, unfortunately for them, the pitch has two sides to play on. Hence, though laterality does exist, it is a great advantage if you also learn to kick the ball with your non-preferred left foot.Similar examples can easily be provided at school. Imagine you are a so-called auditory learner. You will miss a lot in your learning curve if you ignore the visual information available. Thus you had better become an all-round, multi-leg player. However, if you do not grasp the visually presented information, auditory instructions can be very beneficial.A possible negative side effect of this “learning style debunking” is that teachers neglect individual differences, rather than contemplating how to exploit them to improve learning at the individual level in an optimal manner.Professor Harold BekkeringDonders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University Nijmegen, NetherlandsNo evidence to back idea of learning styles | Letter • Professor Bruce Hood and his fellow signatories claim to have evidence that “Students will improve if they think about how they learn but not because material is matched to their supposed learning style”. In 2006 an approach called activity-based learning (ABL) was introduced in all primary schools in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu in a huge experiment, eventually involving 37,000 schools and 40 million children. The immediate success of this change demonstrated that giving children the chance to work through the curriculum with their friends at their own pace and in their own style was hugely more effective than obliging all of them to follow a teacher’s instructions. This suggests that Professor Hood’s negative conclusion relates only to imposed learning styles, not to individual choices.David GribbleFormer coordinator, International Democratic Education Network (Iden)• When I was head of design and technology at a London comprehensive in the 1990s, our training session on learning styles involved a pathetic self-diagnosis, rather like a “What sort of lover are you?” test in a women’s magazine of the day. Totally arbitrary. At the end we had to fill in an evaluation, on which I wrote: “A very friendly tutor but the topic was bollocks, as no real evidence was presented.” (I had to see the head and get a slap down for not accepting the message of the training, which the school had paid for).At my next school, the local inspector did the training. She explained that some people had physical learning styles and, perhaps because I was the most practical person in the group, she tried to teach me the Welsh national anthem by dance! A hilarious failure.I suspect it’s all to do with the promotion of education academics; just like education department politicians, they get no credit if they haven’t innovated. So what happens to the students doesn’t matter, if it gets them their advancement.Martin CooperBromley, Kent• Education is far too important to be constantly at the mercy of the half-baked notions of politicians and the latest money-spinner for consultancies. We urgently need a strong, politically independent and evidence-based system of pedagogy.Chris StephensCardiff• In recent years other fantasies and fallacies have found their way into schools and colleges, not least in the UK: fixed mindset v growth mindset, often crudely and rudely taken from the ideas of the Stanford University psychologist Carol Dweck, whereby mindset growth has led to claims by some educational managers that the brain is a muscle capable of changing shape, especially when tied into a fitness regime which binds in “emotional intelligence”. Talk of “neuroplasticity and mindfulness” whizzes around mindlessly at a time when (in the UK) educational budgets are going through the floor, with a further trend that heralds the ascent of (cheaper) electronic education supplemented by occasional neuroplasticity and mindfulness sessions delivered by “coaches” to students stuffed into overcrowded classrooms. Descent will certainly follow.Whether during this Brain Awareness Week neuroscientists will find the time to go into schools “to talk about their research but also to raise awareness of neuromyths” must be doubtful, especially if such visits incur a fee or two. Good luck, though.Bruce Ross-SmithHeadington, Oxford• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com•  Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters