Candida is a type of fungus. There are more than 20 species that live, quietly and happily, all over our bodies. Occasionally, in the warm, moist folds of an accommodating host, candida will go wild. Overgrowth. Infection. Then, ailments, including – if alternative therapy is your thing – “leaky gut”, a proposed condition (the NHS is dubious about it) that some health practitioners link to flatulence, diarrhoea and various shades of sexual dysfunction.Marlon Wayans is eyeing the coffee he has just finished. He’s on the Candida diet, a no-dairy, no-gluten, no-alcohol, no-sugar cleanse that he does twice a year to flush out the excess fungus. Caffeine is also on the banned substance list, but he has been on the go for 18 hours, travelling to promote Fifty Shades of Black, his scatological spoof on the film adaptation of EL James’s bonkbuster.Wayans plays Christian Black, who is the same as Christian Grey, except he’s black and terrible in bed. The film is crass, dorky and disgusting in all the ways you would expect from the crown prince of modern gross-out. There are buckets of premature ejaculate, a geriatric nymphomaniac and a scene in which, in the wake of an impulsive bout of unprotected sex, Black feeds his blindfolded partner an “after-sex mint” (the morning-after pill). Inevitably, some of the symptoms of leaky gut make an appearance.“I’ll always be that 14-year-old who grew up on Porky’s, Kentucky Fried Movie and Animal House,” he says. “When I do these movies, I write them for the 14-year-old in every man and woman. It’s a point in your life where you have your ideas about sex, but you haven’t had it yet. So it’s fun to see the hypothetical versions and how crazy it can get.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Crass, dorky and disgusting ... Kali Hawk, Marlon Wayans and Mike Epps in Fifty Shades of Black. Photograph: Everett/Rex/ShutterstockWayans has experience of pushing the limits of taste. With his brothers, director Keenen and writer and actor Shawn, he made Scary Movie. A parody of teen slasher films, particularly Wes Craven’s Scream franchise, it goofed on late-90s pop culture memes from The Matrix to the Whassup? ads. It was a massive hit, taking $278m (£196m) worldwide – the highest grossing film by a black director until Straight Outta Compton’s release last year. Not bad for a comedy horror that cost a reported $19m to make and included a scene where a man is killed by being skewered through the head by an erect penis.Scary Movie’s tagline – “No mercy. No shame. No sequel” – buckled under market pressure. After Scary Movie 2, Wayans co-wrote and/or starred in similarly filthy parodies of dance movies (Dance Flick) and found-footage horror films (A Haunted House 1 and 2). Fifty Shades was an obvious target for parody, he says, because of its immense popularity (“Everywhere I went, girls had this book. I was like: ‘Did they redo the Bible?!’”). Also, both book and film are “creepy, awkward and weird”.“Christian’s half abuser and half stalker,” he says. “The only difference between him and someone who is domestically violent is that there’s a contract.”Wayans made it through three-quarters of the book before giving up. In Fifty Shades of Black, there’s a scene in which Christian Black tortures his submissive, Hannah Steele, by reading her a passage. He has to stop after they both break down in tears. Yet, the book’s incredible pull is understandable, says Wayans.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “It’s for the lonely housewife,” he says. “When women get married, your husband doesn’t court you as much. Once he gets you, there’s so many other things he has to do with his life.“Women are attracted to the guy they can’t get because they want all of you. Christian Grey was a guy that had that mystery. He was the perfect imperfect guy.”Fifty Shades of Black will be Wayans’s last parody. He says the genre lacks heart. There is, beneath the scuzz and the muck, a warmth to his best comedy. In White Chicks, released in 2004, Marlon and Shawn play FBI agents who disguise themselves as a pair of bratty white heiresses, Brittany and Tiffany Wilson. Critics hated the film (only a few of Wayan’s comedies have ever hit above 20% on Rotten Tomatoes), but the majority misread it as a farce about race, when, in fact, it was, for its genre and its time, saying something fairly sophisticated about gender. Brittany and Tiffany, dumb, arrogant men before their transformation, quickly learn from their new female friends the value of cooperation and companionship. Of course, there is also a scene where Marlon as Marcus as Tiffany has explosive diarrhoea.Wayans was born in New York and raised, along with Keenen, Shawn and seven other brothers and sisters, in a Manhattan housing project. His dad was a supermarket manager and a devout Jehovah’s Witness. His mum was a social worker. The family were poor. Marlon once said that they had peanut butter or jelly for a treat. Never both.Keenen, 14 years Marlon’s senior, was the first of the Wayans to get into comedy. A stint in standup in New York led to acting work in LA, then a gig co-writing and co-starring in Hollywood Shuffle, comedian Robert Townsend’s semi-autobiographical film about being black and trying to make it in the film industry. Marlon followed his brother out west after theatre school and became a regular, along with many of the Wayans siblings, on Keenen’s hit sketch show, In Living Color. Unusual in that it featured a predominantly black cast, the show helped launch the careers of Jamie Foxx and Jim Carrey, while Jennifer Lopez was a member of the show’s dance troupe, the Fly Girls.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Marlon and Shawn Wayans in White Chicks. Photograph: Everett/Rex/ShutterstockMarlon, 19 when he started out, didn’t know how to play the game back then (“I used to fart in interviews. I probably pissed the whole Hollywood foreign press off,” he says). Now 43, he’s more savvy. He has put in a couple of dramatic roles (Jared Leto’s junkie confidante in Darren Aronofsky’s Requiem for a Dream; one of the Coens’ crooks in The Ladykillers) for directors with serious clout. But, he says, he’s still in “Hollywood’s janitor closet”. He points out that, in the past three years, he has made three movies that cost less than $9m between them, but have grossed around $100m worldwide. He’s waiting for someone to reward him with a bigger budget, but that doesn’t come easily for black talent.“The Revenant cost a lot of money,” he says. “That production would have been shut down so quickly if it was a black film: ‘Put somebody in a bear costume! Put Larry in a bear costume and let him do what he got to do! We’ll just film it with a soft lens.’”The #OscarsSoWhite debate misses the point, he says. “The bigger issue is with us making more diverse movies. But there’s also a responsibility on film-makers of colour. We need to be making more of these films on epic scales in order to be considered for Oscars. Then it’s on the audiences to go out and support the movies. Hollywood’s not black and white, it’s green.”In his 1996 film, Don’t Be a Menace to South Central While Drinking Your Juice in the Hood, Wayans mocks black cinema that uses ghetto stereotypes to hammer home a point about black people. “I guess even though we were free, we were still slaves ... in our mind,” muses the lead character. A mailman walks by and yells: “Message!” Wayans is wary of falling into the same trap. Plus, there are much bigger issues at hand.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Scream team ... With Tori Spelling and Kathleen Robertson in Scary Movie 2 Photograph: Allstar/Cinetext/MIRAMAX“There’s other black things that need remedying besides movies,” he says. “Kids are getting shot, the KKK are making a comeback. Donald Trump could be our next president.”Do you think he will be?“Do you have room for one more person if he does?”Fifty Shades of Black review – Marlon Wayans scrapes the spoof barrel At least Trump speaks his mind, he says. Even if he doesn’t like what the man has to say, he respects him for expressing it honestly. “No matter how stupid he may sound, he says what he feels. People don’t say what they feel any more, people say what’s politically correct. If he would lick his hair and shut the fuck up, he could look like a president. But he opens his mouth and you just go: ‘God!’”And Trump is like a grand Wayans brothers’ comic creation: the blowhard old white guy merrily spouting his racist invective to the outrage (and guilty amusement) of millions.“There will come a time when I’ll take the world more seriously,” Wayans says.But not yet. White Chicks 2 is wobbling on to the horizon; there’s more big, broad comedy territory to conquer.As I get up to leave he offers further endorsement of the Candida diet. “Seriously,” he says. “It would get rid of those bags under your eyes right away.” He gives me a hug and heads straight for the loo.• Fifty Shades of Black is on general release