I’d always wished my parents were normal, that my dad would go to work and my mom would stay home and cook. I craved stability and wanted the perfect Brady Bunch family. When I look back I’m glad they got divorced when I was a baby. It could have been so much worse for me living in an unhappy house with two people who hated each other. Kids, like animals, are instinctual and can feel all that bad energy and anger.Living in a crumbling pink mansion was central to my LA childhood in the 60s. I remember that time so clearly because I was happiest and not caught in the middle of my parents’ fraught relationship. My mother was happier too, and had met Marvin, my future stepfather. We shared the house with other people because we couldn’t afford the rent. Above us, there was a couple I used to spy on doing naked yoga. There was also a rock star there who threw wild parties with lots of drugs.I found solace in animals. I think they’re a lot smarter than we are about the things that matter. Animals are here to teach us. Dogs taught me unconditional love. Cats are very honest and taught me about morality and resilience. One of the most upsetting parts of my childhood is when my dad had my pony Smokey’s balls cut off and gave him away. Poor Smokey had already been abused and was such an angry, uncontrollable animal. We grew up in Malibu Canyon, a little bit of wild west with ranchers, where animals got castrated and men carried guns.My grandmother committed suicide. After my grandfather died of a stroke in the 90s, she went blind, had breast cancer and needed someone to care for her. She’d had such a fabulous life. One day she said to me, “Dolly, I’ve had enough. I’m ready to die.” I told her I loved her and understood and to give me a sign. She said, “If I can I will.” Then she bent over, opened the safe and handed me her diamond and pearl necklaces. She went to bed, stopped eating and drinking, and died three days later. She gives me signs all the time that she’s watching over me.I never wanted kids. A good friend asked the other day if I regret not having any. My mother was amazing and told me at a young age: “You can be anything you want. There are no limitations on you and you don’t have to have children if you don’t feel like it.” I watched my girlfriends, panicking and looking for men to breed with. They had such a desperation and desire to become a mother. I never had that. I was into my career, into music and had other things to bring into the world. We have to respect that everyone is on a different path.I’m living the life I want to live. Me and my husband Philip and our dogs, Gladys and Pixie, live in a pack and we’re a family. I was drawn to men who were like my father. Better the devil you know. I was a free spirit but ended up with these controlling men who never thought about my needs. I was a muse to these people and they loved my energy and creativity but they suck the life out of you. It took me a long time and so much therapy to identify the pattern and address it, deal with it and break it.When Mark [E Smith of the Fall] left me, I was crushed. My mother said, “You don’t realise but it’s the best thing that’s happened to you.” She was right.My stepfather, Marvin, is such a stable, great man and a good male role model. I was vile to him but he persevered. Marvin never faltered and eventually I learned to trust him and grew to love him so much. I’m so grateful to him for restoring my faith in humanity.• The Rise, the Fall, and the Rise by Brix Smith Start, Faber & Faber, £14.99