Nestled among the swaying palms and lush jungle of Bali is an international school where children learn in bamboo pavilions and read from whiteboards made out of recycled car windows. The classrooms, which have no walls, are designed to help pupils feel more connected to their natural surroundings while studying a curriculum with an environmental twist. It has been hailed as the greenest school on Earth, but it is actually one of many adapting to the changing climate.Green school Bali is the brainchild of John and Cynthia Hardy, who moved from North America to the Indonesian paradise in the 1970s. They sold their successful jewellery business in 2007 and used the profits to start a school that would pioneer sustainability in education. The couple had the idea after searching for a school for their children but being put off by the unimaginatively designed spaces and curriculums on offer.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Awarded the 2012 accolade of ‘the greenest school on earth’, the Green school caters for 400 students and covers a vast area in Bali. Photograph: Green schoolSince first opening its doors in 2008 with just 98 students, the school has expanded to house more than 400 young people. Although it has been criticised for its high fees and lack of Indonesian students, the school has received international praise for its innovative approach to education. Last year, United Nations secretary general Ban Ki-moon called it the “most unique and impressive” school he’d ever visited.The curriculum is taught with an emphasis on project-based learning and includes traditional subjects such as maths, English and science, as well as mud-wrestling, surfing and graffiti. It sounds chaotic, but that’s the point: John Hardy wants the curriculum to be as fluid as possible.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Classrooms are open and ‘distractions’ are integrated into lessons, says founder John Hardy. Photograph: Green school, BaliHe explains that the open design of the classrooms means there are more distractions for students from the outside environment – a tropical downpour or a lizard crawling across the floor, for example – but teachers are encouraged to integrate these into lessons to make learning more exciting and engaging.“Everywhere in the world kids are learning how to be green but in completely unsustainable environments,” Hardy says. “Green school kids are learning about the same things, but they are living it instead. “The teacher’s job is to create experiences to make the world a better place for the kids. Children with causes are more engaged citizens of the planet.”He adds: “They are not in an air-conditioned climate, the school is off the grid [powered by solar energy], there is a vegetable plot next to the classroom and the animals eat the scraps from lunch. So it’s a learning-by-living concept rather than an intellectual chalk-and-talk.”Using sustainable design to enhance learning is a concept shared by German architect Anna Heringer, who was asked to design the METI Handmade school in Bangladesh in 2004.Working with her colleague Eike Roswag, she eschewed concrete, bricks and steel for traditional techniques using bamboo, mud and straw. Mud walls are perfectly suited to the climate, naturally absorbing humidity, as well as keeping the classroom cool in the summer and warm in the winter without using electricity.Crops to classrooms: how school farms are growing student engagement Importantly, the children also helped to build the school: not just to decorate it, but to undertake the real work of cutting straw, mixing the mud and making ropes to bind the bamboo frames.Heringer says: “Apart from using tools, water buffalos and cows, all the rest was man-power and that is pretty impressive when you start with a pile of dirt and bamboo sticks. In the end you know that you built it with your own hands. It was an incredible experience for the children and gave them so much confidence.”The hands-on role the students played in constructing their own classrooms has deepened their connection with the natural world and taught them the importance of building sustainably. She hopes students will take that into adulthood and lead more people to choose these traditional, renewable materials in the future.“When you are in the classroom you feel really embraced by the earth walls. It’s a wonderful environment to learn in,” Heringer adds. “It’s amazing how many people want to touch the building. Humankind grew up using this element, earth, and now we hardly have contact with it. It is something that we have a very old relationship with and something that children also connect with. It opens up your senses and that is important for learning.”Students at a primary school in the Scottish Highlands are also reducing their classroom’s carbon footprint. But rather than getting their hands dirty in construction, they are using their own body heat.  Monitors display the temperature and humidity at Acharacle primary school, and the lights automatically switch off when there is enough natural daylight. Photograph: Acharacle primary schoolThat’s because Acharacle primary school in Ardnamurchan, Lochaber, is heated by warmth from the children, staff and computers. And the school’s green credentials don’t stop there. The building is made from natural materials including timber, the furniture is specially sourced so it is free from toxic substances such as glue, and the paint is fruit-based. A wind turbine on a nearby hill generates electricity to heat water, and rainwater is collected for flushing the toilets.The message of sustainability is reinforced in the classrooms, where monitors display the temperature and humidity, as well as levels of daylight and carbon dioxide. The lights switch off if there is enough natural daylight, the windows open automatically if it is too warm or if there is too much CO2 in the air, and the blinds come down when it is warm to prevent overheating.Is Langley Academy the ultimate green school? Headteacher Lyndsay Bradley says these features make students very aware of why they are trying to be more green. She explains: “The classroom’s sustainable design is helping us teach them to be very aware of conserving energy and cutting pollution – all the things we want them to take on board and carry with them into their adult lives.”From 3D printing to augmented reality, much is made of how emerging technologies are revolutionising teaching and learning. But as the world finally wakes up to the reality of climate change, more and more schools are using their space to raise awareness of sustainability and reduce education’s impact on the environment. Through clever design, teachers are not only setting the next generation on the path to a brighter future, but a greener one as well.The schools of the future series is funded by Zurich Municipal. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled “brought to you by”. Find out more here.