• Spoiler alert: this blog is published after The Walking Dead airs in the US on Sundays. Do not read unless you have watched season seven episode 12, which airs in the UK on Fox on Mondays at 9pm.There was a lovely moment in this episode in which Michonne was being chased by a walker and disappeared behind a truck. When she decapitated him, all we saw was the scene projected on a wall in shadow – shake of dreads, sweep of katana, rubberised head going west. Seconds later, she skewered two walkers through the heads with one blow from her katana. Which, when you think about it, is just showing off.Not to be outdone, Rick tackled a walker who was lying across the bonnet of a car he needed. He pulled at the walker’s boot. The foot came off in a squelch of blood and ligament, but the walker remained on the car with his face through the smashed windscreen. So Rick tugged at the torso, which resulted in the kind of gaudy disembowelment Walking Dead connoisseurs savour. He got behind the wheel and beckoned to his lover, who’d just slayed eight walkers, to join him.As I said to my wife, why don’t we have dates like that? If there is any worthwhile romance in the Walking Dead, it works according to the principle that the couple that slays together stays together.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   I can’t bear to see Michonne all doe-eyed. I want her to be as, historically, she has been at her best – zombie-slaying machine – or, at least, looking cross. Photograph: Gene Page/AMCBut the problem in this, one of the lamer episodes in an already lame season, was that the Walking Dead tilted the ratio between slaying and soppiness too far to the latter. The night before Rick and Michonne went into the above murderous frenzy, they had a candlelit tryst, scoffing packet food from a stash they’d just found. As they dined on beef brisket, mac and cheese and chilli, Michonne looked at Rick with doe eyes, as if her next line might be something chilling like: “You complete me.” I can’t bear to see Michonne like this: I want her to be as, historically, she has been at her best – zombie-slaying machine – or, at least, looking cross about something.Mostly, this was a two-hander in which the pair were out scavenging for weapons. They came across a fairground overrun by walkers. Bizarrely, the walkers were carrying guns, as though they’d been killed – then reanimated – during an unpleasant looking altercation long ago with another gang which, quite possibly, is still roaming these parts. But why the winners in that altercation left the walkers with the weapons and didn’t haul off the food supplies is one for Walking Dead historians. On the face of it, they don’t seem the sharpest knives in the drawer.Rick’s plan was to seize both guns and food and head back to Alexandria. But to succeed, he and Michonne had to block the herd of oncoming walkers. So he decided to wedge a car between two walls to keep them penned in. It was a good plan, but for one problem: once he and Michonne started pushing the car, he noticed the brakes were shot, so he couldn’t park it where he’d planned.Then something even more improbable happened. There was a burst of machine gun fire from one of the tooled up walkers. Michonne, sensibly, gave up pushing the car and jumped in the boot. But hold on. Why would the walker’s gun go off at that moment? My guess is that it was classic Walking Dead misdirection – we were supposed to think another bunch of humans were roaming the fairground and targeting our heroes. But it wasn’t. It was just fanciful coincidence.Now, though, Rick and Michonne were in a pickle. The car came to a halt and was quickly surrounded by walkers. Moments later, though, Michonne had kicked her way out of the boot and both she and Rick were standing on the car, surrounded. They trod on a few zombie hands, kicked a few heads and managed to run to safety. But then things got even more perilous. Rick climbed on a fairground ride gantry and spotted a deer Michonne had earlier seen in the woods. Goody – venison for tea! As he lined up his shot, he fell painfully to the ground. The next thing Michonne saw was a mosh pit of walkers feasting on a body in the dirt. Had Rick become zombie food? Michonne looked upset, but it was hard to empathise. Good grief, woman, is it really likely your love interest would be written out at this stage? Aren’t you familiar with Walking Dead misdirection? Few seasoned viewers would be so gullible as to believe the zombie scrum concealed Rick. We’ve been played like this before (remember when Glenn’s number seemed up in season six? Of course you do).       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Is Rick about to become zombie food? Good grief no – aren’t you familiar with classic Walking Dead misdirection? Photograph: Gene Page/AMCIn fact, the walkers were feasting on deer carcass and Rick emerged looking bloody but unbowed. Michonne smiled in relief. Yawn. Minutes later, the couple were driving off with a truck filled with canned goods and 63 guns. He and Michonne handed over the latter to the Alexandrians’ new allies in the looming fight against Negan and the Saviors, namely that weird crew of undernourished looking Cure fans who live in a rubbish dump and are led by Jadis, the woman with the unfortunate fringe. She surveyed the haul. “Not enough,” she said with typical terseness. Jadis wanted double that number before she was prepared to commit to the struggle against the Saviors. Really? It wasn’t just Rick who was put out. I was furious. What this portends, after all, is more yawnsome future episodes of weapons scavenging before Negan and his goons get their comeuppance.There is another possibility. Cut to Rosita in her fashion-forward military clobber doing what she always does – looking moody on the veranda and being mardy with anyone who tries to make conversation. Her plan now, she confided to Sasha, is to kill Negan with the big gun she has in her bag. Haven’t we been here before? Didn’t she fail in her assassination attempt before when Eugene made her a bullet, but she shot not Negan but his baseball bat Lucille? Yes and, with all due respect to her and the delightful Sasha, I don’t think they’re going to succeed this time either.What are we fighting for again?“You asked me what kind of life we had just surrendering,” Rick said to Michonne near the end of the episode. Earlier in this season, the Alexandrians, as you remember, became the Savior’s vassals before getting their mojo back just before the mid-season hiatus. “It wasn’t a life. What we did back there, what we’re doing now – making a future for Judith, Glenn and Maggie’s baby, fighting the fight – that’s living. You showed me that.”Then Rick told her something she couldn’t bear to hear, namely that either of them may become sacrifices in the bigger struggle against Negan. “We’re gonna fight them. That’s what happens next. And we’re gonna lose people. Maybe even each other … I can lose you, we can lose our friends, people we love. It’s not about us any more; it’s about a future. And if it’s me who doesn’t make it, you’re going to have to be the one who leads the others forwards … because you’re the one who can.” A tough philosophy. No wonder Michonne teared up. 