Living in the city and doing the nine to five can leave many daydreaming of escaping to far-off climes or a simpler existence off-grid. But who is brave enough to make the leap? We asked whether any of you had escaped the rat race for travels or wild living. Here, are four of our favourite stories.Maria Fernanda Ribeiro, Brazil: ‘I left a concrete jungle for a real one’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I am 35 and have been living in the Brazilian Amazon rainforest for the past three months. I moved here from São Paulo after quitting my job as a journalist in a corporate communications agency. I plan to spend one year travelling through this incredible environment before returning home. I left behind my stilettos, smart clothes and expensive makeup because I kept wondering about the meaning of life. I wanted to go on a journey to find our more about indigenous cultures. I am staying with a tribe called Huni Kuin in the Carapanã village, next to Tarauacá river. To get here from Rio Branco, the capital of the Acre state, I travelled 12 hours by canoe.I want to find out more about the guardians of the forest, who were born and raised in this magnificent environment. I’m interested in how they have evolved, as well as their struggle and resistance against the progress that has invaded their lands.  Most of the places I go to have no electricity and the generator only works two hours a day to cook dinner.Maria Fernanda Ribeiro It’s not an easy life out here, however. I sleep in hammocks, bathe in the cold river, travel with a light backpack and my main mode of transport is a small boat or canoe. The heat is almost unbearable in the day and I need to be careful about bumping into wild (and sometimes deadly) animals. Most of the places I go to have no electricity and the generator only works two hours a day to cook dinner. But it’s a small price to pay. I’ve learned loads on my travels, including how to survive in the forest. I do plan on moving back, but if I end up thinking that I should travel for longer than a year then I will. I can either stay in the rainforest or go back to the concrete jungle. I will let fate decide.Scott Brown, 28, Canada: ‘I ditched the nine to five in London to sleep under the stars in Canada’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I lived in Clapham, south London – like many other twentysomethings – before arriving in Canada. I had been working in advertising for six-and-a-half years and I was doing all right for myself: I was the account director. However, I felt something wasn’t quite right. I was getting itchy feet. The lunches, the parties and the free pastries just weren’t doing it for me any more.I always liked being outside and had dreams of travelling, so I decided to leave London office life and rough it for a bit.I am now based in Vancouver, British Columbia. I am not quite settled yet (I don’t have a job or an apartment – just a car and friend’s sofa) but that’s OK. I am dipping my toes into the wild in the form of short trips – month-long bike tours, for example, or a 10-day canoe trip. So right now I am in limbo, looking for a job that will let me have access to nature.Scott Brown These short tours create an even bigger desire not to be in the city, and make me want to be in a tent again. I convince myself I’m looking forward to a bed again, but then all I want two days later is to be back camping. So right now I am in limbo, looking for a job that will facilitate this way of life – one that is out of the city, sustainable and has ready access to nature.Sam, 32, Newcastle: ‘My travels restored my faith in humanity’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I worked for an international consulting firm in the London, which was absolutely cut throat. You were competing not only with your colleagues and friends to gain recognition, but also for attention of the partners who had favourites. You practically had to wear a stab-proof vest to survive. I stuck it out for four years but eventually left my job and travelled for the best part of two years. Just myself: no travel partners, no plan, no route, no end-goals. I packed my backpack and left with no return date in mind, very much to the disdain of my family. The main reason I wanted to go was to get away from the corporate life, to focus on my own mental wellbeing and start liking myself again. I wanted to give back, escape commercialism, materialism and get lost where no one would find me. There were rules: wherever I went I had to eat, sleep and speak like a local. I wanted to escape from my comfort zone and change who I was. I visited Thailand, Australia, New Zealand and various other places. My travels restored my faith in humanity, as I met real, kind and generous people from all over the world. I live in a quieter residential area in north London now. I walk more, and spend more time in nature. I hope one day, if I settle down and have children, I can encourage my kids to get in touch with nature and to educate themselves like I did. Leigh Sedgley, 53, Scotland: ‘I am living the dream’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I was working in the very corporate pharmaceutical industry and was lucky enough to be offered redundancy in 2010. After much soul-searching, I followed my heart and moved to Lochinver in the far north-west of Scotland. I sold my house in Yorkshire and bought a small de-crofted cottage 10 miles north of Lochinver. Things fell into place when I was able to buy the small tea van that was operated during the six-month tourist season only 1.5 miles from my home. I called the business “living the dream” as that is what I am doing. I work in a beautiful location and watch whales and dolphins while I work all summer. Then in the winter I enjoy the beauty of the remote place where I have made my home. Moving has made me happier and more relaxed than I have ever felt I could be. I have great friends and a wonderful quality of life now. I might not have as much money, but I have so much more. My summers are busy but my winters are quieter, as I strive to make the most of all the good days by walking on hills or beaches. 