The Halcyon 9pm, ITVThe Downton-esque hotel drama wraps up with a final shot of wartime glamour. It’s the Halcyon’s 50th anniversary and, as celebrations are planned, even toffee-nosed Lady Hamilton is getting into the spirit of things. Receptionist Emma is still juggling chaps, and swing band members Betsey and Sonny start the party. But with sirens blaring, who’s in danger? It’s sad to see this romp go: its period costumes, strong ensemble cast and pithy one-liners have been a treat. Hannah VerdierThe Trouble With Dad 9pm, Channel 4As explored in his play My Family: Not the Sitcom, David Baddiel has spent years watching as his father Colin battles Pick’s disease, a type of dementia that causes disinhibition. For Colin, that takes the form of blackly funny profanity, but the swearing is just a way into a film in which Baddiel, and his brother Ivor, grasp hopefully for what’s left of his dad, feeling that gathering those fragments might help resolve lingering issues from childhood. Jack SealeStoryville: Life, Animated 9pm, BBC4      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Poignant and inspiring … Life Animated.It was as if “someone kidnapped our son”, journalist Ron Suskind says of the autism that began to shut down formerly chatty three-year-old Owen’s speech. As this Oscar-nominated documentary retells, a snatch of dialogue from The Little Mermaid enabled him to communicate with others again, to the point where, with the help of his beloved Disney classics, he is now able to live a semi-independent life in his 20s. Poignant and inspiring. Ali CatterallThe Walking Dead 9pm, FoxAfter last week’s mid-season premiere, which saw the veil of utter dreariness that has blighted this seventh season lift somewhat, hopes are high that the pace will quicken to a gallop as Rick closes in on Negan. We left Gang Grimes surrounded by a mystery group of heavily armed folk, whom Rick may see as potential footsoldiers to rally to his anti-Savior cause. He should know by now that all he needs to do is give Carol a bazooka and let nature take its course. Luke HollandBritain’s Home Truths 9.15am, BBC1This week-long series drops a clanger in its opening synopsis in referring to the homes in which we Brits “choose to live”, as if choice comes into it at all for most of us. It’s absorbing enough, however. Hosts will include Gloria Hunniford and Colin Jackson but this opener sees Gregg Wallace revisit a south London much changed since his own Peckham upbringing of outside lavatories and mangles. He speaks to both relatives and long-term residents. David StubbsJon Richardson: How To Survive The End Of The World 10pm, Channel 4The world is currently so terrifying, newspapers are best read through pinholes in cardboard. Husband-and-wife comedians Jon Richardson and Lucy Beaumont are more fearful than most, not least as they’re expecting their first child in 2017. Here, Richardson humorously explores methods of circumnavigating Britain’s most commonly cited threats, from Isis to sausages and all points between. Mark Gibbings-JonesGirls 10pm, Sky AtlanticThe final season of Girls continues, with Lena Dunham’s Hannah providing much-needed cover while chum Marnie embarks on a secret weekend jaunt to Poughkeepsie. She’s hoping that the trip will help to clarify an old chapter in her life. Meanwhile, Shoshanna calls on Elijah to be her plus-one at a networking type bash for young professional women, which has the dual purpose of also allowing her to reassess some of her twentysomething friendships. Ben ArnoldFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An exuberant tale of teen love … Dirty Dancing. Photograph: Allstar/Vestron PicturesDirty Dancing, (Emile Ardolino, 1987), 9pm, 5StarCollege girl Jennifer Grey gets Saturday night feverish when she spies streetwise hoofer Patrick Swayze at an otherwise dull holiday resort. Swayze makes like Travolta in a career-defining performance, and soon they’re dancing into bed in a lighthearted, exuberant tale of teen lurve that became a box-office monster. Great 60s rock’n’roll songs, too. Paul HowlettLive sportFA Cup Football: Sutton United v ArsenalNon-league Sutton host the 12-time winners in the very definition of a “proper cup tie”.7.30pm, BBC1Championship Football: Newcastle United v Aston VillaTwo fallen giants face off in English football’s second tier.7.30pm, Sky Sports 1ATP Tennis: Rio OpenCoverage of day one of the ATP World Tour 500 event.7.30pm, Sky Sports 2