“Sydney nightlife is so lame now.”Contrary to expectation, that was not a sentence I heard from disappointed punters on Oxford Street last weekend, as they were sent away from bar entrances by beefy security guards, tapping their watches at the dreaded Cinderella Hour of 1.30am.It was a sentence uttered to me by a bored 30-year-old party veteran in 2004 (how on earth is that 12 years ago?). At the time I was 20, at “peak hipster” and intoxicated with the glamorous drug-fuelled shenanigans taking place in the wild nightclubs of Kings Cross.Sydney lockouts: seven creatives give their views – and none of them are good The 2000 Sydney Olympics, he said, had commercialised Sydney nightlife. Gone were the gritty inner-west warehouse parties where people ran around naked and DJs played techno. “Now everyone parties in these stainless steel, multi-level nightclubs playing funky house, and pays $80 for the privilege of dropping $200 worth of pills and chewing your face off at a Fuzzy festival.” He sighed, mournfully. “It used to be about the music.”No doubt I rolled my eyes and said “whatever, grandpa”, but evidently his words stuck with me. Now they seem to echo with an irony when I hear myself try to convince my 19-year-old brother how lame Sydney nightlife became after the lockout laws came into effect two years ago; when I hear my compatriots wax nostalgic about the “good old days”.We don’t need to worry about the next generation. In the words of the Who, the kids are all right!Here’s what’s going to happen:Sydney’s lockout laws will drive partying underground and into the western suburbs, if they haven’t already.Perhaps you’ve noticed an uptick in house parties – beers in the backyard with an iPhone hooked up to a pair of shitty speakers, playing a Spotify playlist. But these parties are becoming more sophisticated: bigger speakers, a table with decks, a spot for a friend’s band to play.The party hosts will get better and better at this and start to take over bigger and bigger spaces: abandoned warehouses, bush properties and suburban streets. A new crop of young musicians, promoters, performance artists, visual artists and even film-makers and theatre-makers will hone their skills at these off-the-hook, barely legal parties. The kids will support themselves, spending money on one another’s work.A certain “sound” will develop, with its own philosophy and aesthetic. And boom, we will have a full-fledged artistic movement.That’s when the suits-and-ties from the media, entertainment and advertising industries will start hanging about like flies. Then the parties will be partnered with Vice, sponsored by Lynx. It will slowly dawn on the government – always the last to come to the table – that their city and its neutered venues and institutions are being upstaged by a bunch of punks in the suburbs.Sydney lockout laws a 'sledgehammer' to night life: Clover Moore This will force the hand of the government to develop a policy that better balances public safety with night-time urban culture. Throughout history we’ve seen how constraints work as fertiliser for innovation.Just ask skate innovators Z-Boys. When a major drought in mid-1970s Southern California brought on severe water restrictions, it left suburban swimming pools empty – so the Los Angeles teenagers began skating in them. They became the pioneers of aerial and sliding skate moves that formed the basis of modern aerial skateboarding.Would Pussy Riot exist without Putin? Ai Wei Wei without the Chinese government? Could Virginia Woolf have written A Room of One’s Own without centuries of sexism to rail against?In fact, constraints are so crucial to creativity that architect Frank Gehry once named as his worst artistic experience the time he was asked to design a house with zero constraints. “I had to look in the mirror a lot. Who am I? Why am I doing this? What is this all about? It’s better to have some problem to work on.”I’m often amused by the way speakeasies have become such a trendy look for Sydney bars today, and yet when the legal closing time strikes, bar owners duly kick their whisky-swilling patrons out. The 1920s and 30s owners of actual speakeasies would be rolling in their graves. The Prohibition era changed American drinking culture forever. Speakeasies were necessarily shady and makeshift. In Daniel Okrent’s Last Call: The Rise and Fall of Prohibition he writes, “It didn’t take much more than a bottle and two chairs to make a speakeasy”. New cocktails like the Mint Julep were concocted, which masked the taste of rough moonshine. Before Prohibition only men drank publicly in saloons, but speakeasy proprietors, desperate for customers, were forced to attract new clientele: women and people of colour.Cities are forever morphing beasts, affected by fluctuating real estate prices, immigration patterns, changing demographics and, yes, even the Olympics. The government has, and always will have, a noose around the city’s neck that it will tighten at will – but inevitably, it will slacken too.Sydney's lockout laws: Kings Cross 'resets' as community calls for self-regulation If you think the lockout laws are bad now, pity those who lived in the city in the first half of last century. According to the City of Sydney’s history of Kings Cross, pubs closed at 6pm and over the weekend, ensuring a “brisk illegal trade” of grog. Underground mobsters Kate Leigh and Tilly Devine led rival gangs that would come to a head in street stoushes involving razors, guns, bottles and stones.As director of the National Live Music Office Damian Cunningham once told me, this latest clampdown is merely a point of reset. “If the Cross is dead then long live the Cross, because it’s gone through this a number of times over its history.”To a new generation of young creatives in Sydney: don’t wait for the government to open up the bars again. Make your own scene. And please, let it include techno-pumping inner-west warehouses with clothes optional, because apparently I missed out on that golden era of Sydney nightlife.Sydney’s lockout laws are unsophisticated and a knee-jerk reaction to a complicated issue. But who knows? In the long-term, they may prove to be the best thing that has ever happened to Sydney.