Bake Off: Crème de la Crème8pm, BBC2The professional baking challenge continues with chefs from the British armed forces facing three from the Savoy and an all-female team. Tom Kerridge is taskmaster, ordering miniature opéra aux fruits, a spherical gateau and a babka knot. Their trifle-themed showpieces are incredible, including chocolate bonsai trees and a super-sized construction involving shelves. It’s undeniably impressive and not without tension, even if it doesn’t have quite the same thrill as the amateur Bake Off. Hannah VerdierHow Not to DIY8pm, ITVWe Brits – suggests this documentary – are a nation of DIY addicts. Possibly, although many might argue we’re simply too skint to get the builders in. Whatever the truth is, not everybody is adept at putting up shelves. Cue ITV gathering together footage of jobs that have gone wrong for a two-parter that might turn out to be rather entertaining – providing you don’t have too many flashes of cringing recognition when viewing other people’s incompetence. Jonathan WrightThe A Word9pm, BBC1We have arrived at the halfway point of Peter Bowker’s engaging family drama. Maggie, the speech therapist, arrives tonight like a fairy godmother, casting magical new light on what it’s like inside Joe’s autistic world. Alison falls utterly for the idea that Maggie can cure all the family’s ills, which leaves Rebecca out on a limb. Meanwhile, Eddie tries to prove himself to Maurice, with his sweeping changes to the brewery. It’s good to see Bowker back on form. Julia RaesideInside Obama’s White House9pm, BBC2Conclusion of this outstanding series considering Barack Obama’s presidency and boasting extraordinary access to many of the principals, including Obama himself. Tonight’s episode begins with what must have been one of the most anxious days of his presidency – the authorisation of US special forces to pursue a lead concerning the whereabouts of Osama bin Laden. It also recalls his re-election in 2012, and the frustrations he faced as he confronted America’s irrational attitudes to guns, race and immigration. Andrew MuellerDrive9pm, ITVIt’s celebrity car racing, and it’s mildly diverting. Reasonably entertaining. OK. Eight fairly famous people compete in a series of moderately fun motoring tasks, overseen with acceptable charm by Vernon Kay, in which one is eliminated each week. Tonight, the contestants race bangers around a shale track solo, then in chained pairs, all of which causes tentative banter and vague rivalries. The focus is on Louis Walsh, a self-confessed bad driver. Can he survive against Colin Jackson, Angus Deayton and Mariella Frostrup? Jack SealeImpossible Engineering9pm, YesterdayA second series of the strand that celebrates the most audacious contemporary engineering endeavours, beginning with the Gotthard tunnel, an attempt to turn the Alps into Swiss cheese by drilling a rail tunnel directly through the mountain bedrock. Although the project won’t be completed until later this year, workers have already excavated 25m tonnes of rock with the help of gigantic Thunderbirds-style digging machines. Hanging out with massive bores is surprisingly fascinating. Graham VirtueBates Motel10pm, UniversalThis strange but highly regarded series – a “prequel” to Psycho set in the present day – extends into its fourth series. Norman is in an unpromising state of mind at the beginning, found by a kindly farmer berating his imaginary mother over what looks like a shallow grave. He’s dispatched to hospital but we know it’s only a matter of time before his homicidal lapses recur. Meanwhile, Emma receives a lung transplant and Ma Bates does what she does best in troubled times: bend Sheriff Romero round her little finger. David Stubbs      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Waltz With Bashir Photograph: handout/HandoutFilm choiceWaltz With Bashir(Ari Folman, 2008), 10pm, Sky ArtsDirector Folman said this “animated documentary” was a form of therapy, a way of confronting his experiences as a young Israeli soldier during the invasion of Lebanon in 1982 – and, specifically, the massacre of Palestinians at the Sabra and Shatila refugee camps. The result is a compelling depiction of warfare: the graphic horror of combat and affecting moments of introspection. The reminiscences of his former comrades demonstrate that the survivors pay a price, too. Paul HowlettBrazil(Terry Gilliam, 1985), 11.45pm, Film4Following on from Time Bandits, Gilliam created another weird and wonderful world in this blackly comic take on Orwell’s 1984. It’s the story of Jonathan Pryce’s Sam Lowry, a Ministry of Information apparatchik in a shadowy, half-lit futureworld stacked with heating ductwork; the rebel in the system is the mysterious Tuttle (Robert De Niro). The twisty plot, like Lowry’s central heating, is fit to bust, but it’s a brilliant, dizzying fantasy. PHToday’s best live sport• Tennis: The Katowice Open Coverage of the second day’s play from Poland. 11am, Eurosport 2• Cycling: Basque Tour Coverage of stage two, from Markina-Xemein to Amurrio-Baranbio. 2.30pm, Eurosport 1• Champions League Football: Bayern Munich v Benfica. The quarter-finals begin, with Barcelona v Atletico Madrid on BT Sport Europe. 7pm, BT Sport 2• Greyhound Racing: The Pin Point Three Steps From the Owlerton Stadium in Sheffield. 7pm, Sky Sports 2