How much physical risk and possible national humiliation would you endure to win a set of luxury pans? Anyone whose threshold of pain and embarrassment is very high – or their cupboard of cooking implements extremely bare – may want to take part in Can’t Touch This, a new BBC Saturday night game-show that begins tomorrow. Contestants are fired from a catapult on to an obstacle course of dips, peaks and pools. Slithering and sliding, they must try to touch hanging buttons that release prizes including, apart from those top-end saucepans, a smoothie-maker, a sat-nav and a 3D printer.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anything for a saucepan … Can’t Touch This. Photograph: Screen Grab/BBC Participants also have to suffer a sardonic voiceover from Sue Perkins, so these enticements seem low. But British TV has always had a problem with prizes. In the US, the 1950s quiz series The $64,000 Question became scandalous when it emerged that some contestants were being given answers in advance, leading to a government investigation of TV, as dramatised in the Robert Redford movie Quiz Show. But when ITV produced a British spin-off, the row was over the amount of cash. The rules of the then commercial TV regulator, the ITA (Independent Television Authority), against giving too much away meant the UK version had to be re-named The 64,000 Question and the prize consisted of 64,000 sixpences, which amounted to £1,600. That was a sizeable sum at the time (the average UK house-price was around £3,000), but not life-transforming in the way the top American pay-out would be. Because the ITV regulators developed a rash at the sight of cash, shows were drawn to giving away items whose worth could be disguised. On Sale of the Century (ITV, 1971-76), another imported American format pauperised for British audiences, volunteers competed for tiny amounts of notional money (starting with £1) that allowed them eventually to compete for a car they would get for a knockdown price.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pauperised for the UK ... Nicholas Parsons with hostesses Carole Ashby and Karen Loughlin – and a lucky washing machine winner – on Sale of the Century. Photograph: REX/Shutterstock/ITV A car is the biggest prize in Can’t Touch This too. The motor has endured as the ultimate take-home trophy because it remains one of the few consumer dreams that have survived all changes in taste and technology. More cynically, manufacturers realised early that, for the cost of donating one four-door or even a three-wheeler, they could achieve an on-screen prominence for their product, whoopingly admired by the studio audience, that would have been far more expensive if they bought a slot in the ad breaks. Due to BBC rules, though, it’s noticeable that the dream set of wheels that literally hangs over the contestants on Can’t Touch This has an unspecified marque. Funded by the public, the BBC has always had to be careful about redirecting too much money to a single licence-payer. Internal guidelines (and external scrutiny by the tabloid press) began a fashion for joke or token prizes, like the “Blankety Blank cheque-book and pen” or the “Crackerjack pencil”. On Blankety Blank, the “star prize” of “a flight on Concorde” would turn out to be a quick spin over the Bristol Channel, not a weekend in New York.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Thanks a bunch … Blankety Blank pen and cheque book. Photograph: Ken McKay/ITV/REX/Shutterstock It’s a measure of how strictly financial protocols were imposed that the prize most people remember from The Generation Game, which culminated in players winning all the items they could memorise on a conveyor belt, is the joke consolation of the “cuddly toy”. Other prizes that whizzed past – the “dinner service” and “fondue set” – would hardly make contestants think Christmas had come early. After the progressive loosening, by Conservative governments in the 1980s and 90s, of rules governing commercial TV, Who Wants To Be A Millionaire? (ITV, 1998-2014) celebrated the new largesse. Many other quiz shows would feature a literal “money shot”, with a quartet of brawny security guards stood at the corners of a stack of banknotes or gold bars that represented the bounty. This moment of fiscal porn is a signature of Ant & Dec’s Saturday Night Takeaway (ITV, since 2002), and another of the double-act’s franchises, Red or Black? (ITV, 2011-12), which offered a seven-figure jackpot. But, while huge prizes can now be won on British television, at least on ITV, the formats are designed to make sure as few people as possible take home the top amount. This doesn’t reduce the flow of contestants, though, because ever since The $64,000 Question, the real prize for most people is the chance to appear on TV. As Can’t Touch This proves, they will even by catapulted, dunked and thumped for very little in return.