Angela Hartnett doesn’t believe that avoiding food waste is a style of cooking. “It’s just what cooking should be,” says the Michelin-starred chef. “A chicken is a great way to show what is possible in terms of using every last bit, and Italian food is a very good example of how to cook with as little waste as possible.”Having worked on anti-food waste campaigns over the past few years, she is frustrated that “The message isn’t getting across. The supermarkets don’t really help, with sell-by dates, out-of-season produce and all the waste within the system itself.”Her restaurants (Murano, Café Murano, Merchants Tavern and Limewood Hotel) are all in the UK, but Hartnett’s family is originally from Italy, where it is considered sinful to throw away even stale bread; dozens of dishes find a use for it. She extends this philosophy to her restaurant kitchens. “Some waste is inevitable, with peelings, but we use pasta trimmings for staff food – they can be turned into lasagne, or served with a ragú. We use up the end bits of charcuterie, diced and cooked with peas or nuts and radicchio.” Using meat as a flavouring, rather than main ingredient, is key too.Far from being worthy, a week of chicken suppers feels luxurious – pan-roasted legs with sweet red peppers is worthy of a dinner party; the creamy risotto makes a comforting end to a long day and, with a glass of wine and some buttery greens, the puff-topped, tarragon-flecked pie makes Friday night a special occasion.Ask your butcher to divide a free-range chicken weighing at least 2kg into two whole legs and the crown, keeping the wings and any attached meat and bones. All recipes serve 2.Roasted crown with garlic and rosemary      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Roasted chicken crown with garlic and rosemary. Photograph: Steve Joyce for the ObserverStart the week with a roast: cook the crown at 180C for 1 hour 15 minutes (or until juices run clear) with a head of garlic, divided into cloves, 4 sprigs rosemary and a splash of olive oil; cook the wings and any bones in the same tray. Serve with potatoes and vegetables. After eating, thoroughly strip off all the leftover meat from carcass and bones. Reserve the bones and set aside/freeze the meat.Pan-roasted legs with peppers, lemon and thymeBrown the legs in 2 tbsp olive oil until golden. Season and add 4 crushed cloves of garlic and a handful of diced pancetta or chorizo. Deglaze with a squeeze of lemon and half a glass of white wine. Add 4 tbsp water, cover and simmer for 45 minutes, or until the chicken is cooked. Add roasted peppers from a jar, drained and warmed through; add chopped parsley just before serving.Barley minestrone      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Barley minestrone. Photograph: Steve Joyce for the ObserverMake stock: place the bones in a pan with 2 chopped carrots, onions and celery sticks. Cover with 2 ltr water and simmer for 1 hour. Remove the bones and reserve 1.5 ltr stock for other dishes. Either leave the vegetables in the remaining broth and mash them, or add fresh vegetables later. Add 2 handfuls of pearl barley and simmer until just tender, adding a little more water, if necessary. Prepare and cook fresh vegetables, if using – carrot, onion, celery and fennel, all finely sliced, work well: sauté in olive oil, then add to the barley for the last 10 minutes. Season and serve with salsa verde.Mushroom risotto      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mushroom risotto. Photograph: Steve Joyce for the ObserverHeat 2 tbsp olive oil in a pan and add 1 finely chopped onion. Cook until translucent; add 300g risotto rice and 1 tbsp butter. Cook, stirring, for 2 minutes, then add 150ml white wine and let it bubble, stirring. Slowly add up to 1 ltr hot chicken stock, stirring and waiting until absorbed before adding more. Rehydrate dried ceps in boiling water, or sauté sliced button mushrooms in butter. Add to pan when rice is cooked, plus scraps of shredded chicken, a handful of parsley and 50g butter. Stir, season and serve with parmesan.Chicken salad      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chicken salad. Photograph: Steve Joyce for the ObserverUse loads of different kinds of lettuce – for instance a mixture of castelfranco (a radicchio), rocket and tardivo. Toss with a finely chopped shallot, cooked new potatoes, tinned cannellini, roughly shredded roasted chicken breast and Dijon mustard dressing.Chicken and tarragon pie      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chicken and tarragon pie. Photograph: Steve Joyce for the ObserverWarm 500ml chicken stock. Separately, make a roux with 50g butter and 50g plain flour. Cook for 1 minute then remove from heat and gradually add the stock, whisking. Return to low heat and cook until thickened. Season, then add spoonful of wholegrain mustard and a dash of Worcestershire sauce. Slice and sauté 2 leeks and 1 onion; add to sauce with the remaining chicken from the wings and carcass, plus a handful of tarragon. Pour into a small pie dish, cover with puff pastry and bake for 30 minutes at 180C. 