Evacuation advisories for some communities north of the giant fire burning near Yosemite national park are no longer in place, as crews make progress against the blaze.Officials say the advisories for Tuolumne City, Soulsbyville and Willow Springs were lifted on Thursday. The advisory remains in place for other communities in the area, and mandatory evacuations are in place along the fire's southeastern edge.The fire had burned about 315 square miles as of Friday morning, up from about 311 square miles the previous night. Containment remained at 32%.Nearly 5,000 firefighters are battling the blaze, but in another sign of progress, California fire spokesman Daniel Berlant said that number was likely to drop on Friday.The fire's cost has risen to $47m.The park has seen some reservation cancellations and some nearby mountain communities have had a serious drop-off in business due to the 311-square-mile Rim fire.Park officials expect about 3,000 cars a day to pass through gates this weekend instead of the nearly 5,000 that might typically show on the holiday. Most of the missing will be day tourists, not folks who have waited months and even years for a campsite along the Merced river or a room at the historic Ahwahnee Lodge.In Groveland, a scenic Gold Rush community along a road that carries 2.2 million cars into the park every year. Early on, fire tore along Highway 120, forcing its closure and cutting off the town's lifeblood.Since then, the historic hamlet has been the dateline on scores of ominous news stories describing the inferno that has long since chewed its way north. The notoriety has taken a toll."I laid off all my girls Wednesday", said Laura Jensen, owner of the Firefall Coffee Roasting Co. "This has totally drained us. It's like winter when we slow down and take care of the locals, but this should be our busiest time of the year."The Iron Door Saloon, which calls itself the oldest in California, also laid off employees this week, as did the Hotel Charlotte, a 1920s boutique hotel on Main Street.The impact is being felt as far north as Lake Tahoe, where thick smoke settled this week in the alpine basin that draws outdoor enthusiast from around the world, affecting everything from hotel reservations to bicycle rentals.The sky was clear Thursday, but tourists had yet to come back."It has dropped off drastically the past week," said Travis McCoy of Camp Richardson Mountain Sports Center on the lake's south shore. His usual rental income of up to $3,000 daily has fallen to less than $500.Some hotels and motels at South Lake Tahoe were experiencing as much as a 10% to 20% drop in business, with less of an impact at larger hotel-casino properties, said Carol Chaplin, executive director Lake Tahoe Visitors Authority. But she said there were signs of improvement as the holiday weekend neared."We've got blue skies. We've got the lake back. It's the best it has been in a week," she said.