Feminism, ambition, hedonism: drama explores lives of university’s privileged Rapist-slaying vigilantes, teacher-pupil sex, revenge porn. The kids might be far from alright in 2017, but with the TV industry more engaged with their reality than ever, teen dramas – whether coal-black thrillers or pop culture-heavy dramedies – are only getting better at tapping into the harsh world facing Generation Z (ie those young people who were born, if you can believe it, after the year 2000).Among them, new BBC3 thriller Clique, which debuts on Sunday. Penned by Jess Brittain – who cut her teeth in the Skins writers’ room – it follows lifelong friends Holly and Georgia, who begin to drift apart when the latter is inducted into a shady group of fellow students. The alpha girls’ world is shrouded in mystery, danger and drugs, as Holly begins to glimpse the truth, witnessing an apparent suicide attempt, an unhealthy relationship between the gang and a lecturer and, finally, a shock fatality. As well as serving up thrills, the programme ventures into the identity politics zeitgeist – namely around feminism, and what it means today – as well as delving into the moneyed, drug-fuelled underbelly of elite British universities at a time of rising tuition fees and increased inequality.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The cast of Clique (l-r): Rachel (Rachel Hurd-Wood), Fay (Emma Appleton), Louise (Sophia Brown) and Phoebe (Ella-Rae Smith). Photograph: Mark Mainz/BBC/BalloonWatch this! The must-see TV shows of 2017 Tackling tough, timely themes wasn’t always such a high priority for broadcasters. “We were on a rat-infested corridor in the basement of the production company when we made Skins,” recalls Bryan Elsley, Brittain’s father and creator of the pioneering sex-and-drugs-filled show. “The prevailing wisdom in the internet age was that kids didn’t watch television any more, so there was no point.” Such predictions turned out to be wrong, of course: 10 years on, the Bristol-based series has become the rule rather than the exception. Edgy youth dramas of all stripes, from E4’s rural murder mystery Glue to BBC3’s abduction-themed Thirteen – among the most viewed programmes on iPlayer in 2016 – have sprung up in recent years; and in the case of the latter, it exists on the internet rather than being threatened by it.Having played a key role in the teen drama’s transformation from effectively non-existent to a politically charged genre with teeth, Elsley is continuing to work on shows that continue to push boundaries of theme and form. As well as E4 and Netflix’s upcoming part-animated virtual-world thriller Kiss Me First, he’s the exec producer of Brittain’s show. Regarding its subject matter, he says: “We’re in a world where universities seem to have forgotten some of the guiding principles that women fought for in the 70s and 80s. Consent and sexual abuse, what is meant by attractiveness and beauty in a social media age, class – these were part of Jess’s thinking.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Like father, like daughter ... Jess Brittain, the writer of Clique. Photograph: YouTubeSmall screen queens: how teen angst took over the TV scene Indeed, while the titular in-crowd in Clique initially seem empowered by their place in society, their dominance comes at a cost for the other women around them – and ultimately themselves. More broadly, Elsley sees Clique as part of an important trend of unsanitised teen offerings, where ideas are often more forward-thinking than on shows made for a more mature audience. “I think that the young adult drama form is where discussions about society are going on, in the absence of far-reaching insights into contemporary life in more mainstream dramas,” he says. “[Adult dramas] are in a crisis of ideology – obsessed with crime and history and echoes of empire, which are very typical responses to an age of crisis. But teen drama is where it’s all happening.”It’s happening across the Atlantic, too. Another programme that is seizing on the challenges facing young women today is Sweet/Vicious. In the US MTV show, college students-turned-vigilantes Jules and Ophelia give men on campus who sexually assault and rape female students a violent comeuppance. These aren’t bogeymen in dark alleys or Crimewatch caricatures but their contemporaries, underscoring the insidious nature of college rape culture. While MTV has form in the area, with the likes of Awkward, about a girl who returns to school after a failed suicide attempt, and abduction drama Finding Carter, the pertinent nature of the theme here has seen it garner more attention, with US Vanity Fair labelling it “our [nation’s] most politically urgent show”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Blurring the boundaries ... Veronica (Camila Mendes) in Riverdale. Photograph: PRCreator Jennifer Kaytin Robinson was keen to use her programme as a vehicle for a wider anti-misogyny message: “This country has such a ‘protect our boys’ mentality, and it’s happening with Trump,” she told US Glamour late last year. “If your man is accused of something he 100% did not do, yes, stand by your man. But when your man is Donald Trump and he’s on tape saying ‘grab them by the pussy,’ I want to be as far away from that man, and also put on a chastity belt.” As a result, the series doesn’t use euphemisms for rape, instead dealing with the word head-on. Jules’s dual identities – prim sorority girl and kick-ass ninja – meanwhile, coexist in a way that gives her power, as neither the victim nor the perpetrator.Sweet/Vicious’s dark humour and sorority setting recalls murderous queen bee-led teen films of the 80s and 90s – think Heathers, Jawbreaker, Cruel Intentions – but it’s more subversive than those films. Like Clique, it’s aware of the terrors lurking in the modern world, whether that’s an attacker who meets his victim through a Tinder-like dating app or a body-shaming girl gang whose leader is described as “the love child of a CrossFit trainer and Mussolini”. What’s more, Robinson manages to make the show accessible to young people despite its hard-hitting nature. The adult-aimed anthology series American Crime – although, admittedly excellent – tackled school-based sexual assault with a sparse, documentary-like feel for its second season. By contrast, Sweet/Vicious feels made for the Snapchat age: Grimes is on the soundtrack; knowing pop culture references are littered throughout, whether Sherlock or the Wicked soundtrack.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Likewise, Riverdale is blurring the boundaries of your average youth drama and plunging it into murky new depths. The series, which originated on The CW channel, reimagines the all-American world of popular teenage comic-book publisher Archie Comics with parallel stories of small-town murder, student-teacher sex, slut-shaming and organised crime. “Riverdale is a little more of a noir or a Lynchian story. It’s not just a coming-of-age tale,” says creator Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa. “It has this mystery and a subversive element to it that I think helps differentiate it from earlier shows like The OC.”Aguirre-Sacasa was keen to haul its cast of teens into the 21st century. “The Archie characters are known in the States for being wholesome and innocent and life-affirming. Everyone drinks milk with dinner. But that’s not the world we live in.”Even so, there are some places that the teen drama might not be ready to go quite yet. “A movie that I love, and we actually used as a reference for a couple of things, was Elephant [the Gus Vant Sant high-school shooting film],” he says. “I think it’s phenomenal, but I don’t know that we would ever do that to the kids in Riverdale. It’s almost a melodrama – it’s dealing with subtext.” By connecting with darker themes without swamping younger audiences with gloom, these shows feel engaged while still holding on to a youthful idealism that things can get better. Maybe they could teach their adult counterparts a thing or two.Clique is available from 5 March on BBC iPlayer; Riverdale is streaming on Netflix now