Jacques Herzog and Pierre de Meuron, architectsWhen we first visited Bankside Power Station for the original Tate Modern competition in 1994, it seemed like the castle in Sleeping Beauty – an enormous urban mountain that was completely overgrown, surrounded by barbed wire and prickly roses, as if protecting the hidden beauty inside. It seemed dangerous. It is totally unimaginable now, but this was a huge chunk of the city that was totally excluded from public life, set back behind high walls.We felt powerless in the face of it. The building really was a monster. We decided that we couldn’t work against that. The term we used was aikido, referring to the Japanese martial art that turns the force of the enemy back on itself. We had to use the power of Giles Gilbert Scott’s original building to knock itself off balance, to find ways of undermining the symmetry of the thing.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The disused Bankside Power Station, London, in the early 1990s – with generating turbines still in place. Photograph: Brian Harris/Rex/ShutterstockHerzog and De Meuron: Tate Modern’s architects on their radical new extension So the glass section along the roof – the “light beam” – stops short at the eastern end, and we cut away the western corner. We’re not scared of symmetry, but we are not ideologically in favour of it. We are not classicists: we like to start with the obvious form and then make arguments against it.The Turbine Hall is probably the best thing we have done in our career. It was full of turbines when we found it, but it was still awe-inspiring. You could see the architect had a cathedral in mind. Our strongest move was removing the metal deck at ground level to reveal all this space beneath, making the hall feel so much bigger, almost like a nave. We wanted to bring people down to the lowest point to give all the floors equal importance – otherwise what is at the bottom feels secondary.The entrance ramp is important, too. It wasn’t a conscious reference to anything, but it is one of those fundamental spatial experiences, like the Campo in Siena, or the piazza in front of the Pompidou, the most gentle way to bring people from one level to another.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Children supporting a schools art initiative gather on Tate Modern’s entrance ramp last week. Photograph: Jonathan Hordle/Rex/ShutterstockNicholas Serota, Tate directorPeople thought I was mad when I suggested Bankside. It was an overlooked, rather scruffy part of London. Most people found it difficult to imagine this sooty 1950s power station becoming a gallery of modern art. We looked at a number of sites, but one of the main considerations was to put our gallery in a place where it would have a public presence, in a part of the city where its arrival would make a difference.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Public presence … Tate Modern at night. Photograph: Tony French/AlamyWhen we held the design competition – and invited Tadao Ando, David Chipperfield, Rafael Moneo, Rem Koolhaas and Renzo Piano – Herzog & de Meuron’s entry stood out because it proposed to do the least to the existing building, whereas some of the others proposed rather ambitious additions. Herzog & de Meuron saw that one simply had to twist the existing box in a way that realised its potential.In many ways, the light touch was a product of financial necessity. We had to build the museum for about two-thirds of the cost of a new building, which put a squeeze on the amount of “architecture”. We were strongly criticised by the older generation of high modernists for not commissioning a new building, and because we had chosen a relatively unknown firm. The height of the galleries was important. Walking into these five-metre high spaces, I always found myself saying that you can never really have too much space above your head when you’re looking at art. There weren’t many examples of galleries in industrial spaces back then, although two precedents were a gallery in Schaffhausen, Switzerland, in a former textile factory; and Frank Gehry’s conversion of a garage in Los Angeles into the Temporary Contemporary [now the Geffen].We made the decision to arrange the galleries enfilade [connected in a line] without realising quite how many people would visit, and that it would feel like a somewhat inevitable trudge of people marching through. The new building, Switch House, aims to break that sensation with a bigger variety of spaces.When we first picked Bankside, people argued that if you were going to save a Gilbert Scott building, it should be Battersea Power Station. We looked at Battersea, but it was in private hands and they were asking too much. And even I thought it would have been too big! Who would have believed we would get double the expected number of visitors and, 16 years later, be expanding massively