Clare Waight Keller has been announced as the new artistic director of Givenchy. The news came in the most modern of ways: Givenchy posted a photograph of the British designer on Instagram with the caption: “Clare Waight Keller. New Artistic Director.” It was then shared with Givenchy’s 7.7 million followers.Waight Keller replaces Riccardo Tisci, who left Givenchy last month. She will be the first woman to design for Givenchy, and the second major female appointment that parent company LVMH has made in the last 12 months, following Maria Grazia Chiuri’s appointment last June as creative director of Christian Dior.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The now cult tracksuit on the Spring Summer 2016 Chloé catwalk. Photograph: Rex/ShutterstockFormerly creative director at Chloé, Waight Keller showed her final collection for the house earlier this month. The Royal College of Art graduate is an industry veteran, having also designed for Pringle of Scotland, and Gucci. Givenchy will be her first time designing couture.The designer is well-liked for her straight-talking style and an aesthetic that puts female-friendly elegance and ease at the top of the agenda. This is a departure for Givenchy. During his 12-year tenure, Tisci made streetwear and street style part of the Givenchy house codes, creating hoodies with bold prints, track pants and rockn’roll-influenced leather goods. Fans included Kanye West and Rihanna. This look was successful, too: during this period, the house is thought to have expanded six times. Tisci is now expected to join Versace.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A model on the Chloe AW 2017 catwalk, where Waight Keller’s was creative director. Photograph: Francois Mori/APWith her work at Chloé, Waight Keller has developed an indisputably feminine aesthetic. Big hitters included 70s floral prints, dresses with oversized frills and pinafore dresses, alongside her now cult designer tracksuit and a collection inspired by women on motorbikes. Her fans tend to be artistic: Solange Knowles, Isabelle Hupert and Clemence Poesy all attended her last Chloé show.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Riccardo Tisci, formerly of Givenchy. Photograph: Etienne Laurent/EPA      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A model on the Givenchy AW 2017 catwalk. Photograph: Francois Mori/APThe appointment perhaps signals that LVMH want the brand to return to the quieter, expensively chic look that suits its founder, Hubert de Givenchy, in the year that Givenchy celebrates 65 years, and made it so popular among women like Audrey Hepburn and Jackie Onassis. The post announcing Waight Keller’s appointment was preceded with a quote from de Givenchy which read: “true elegance comes with a natural gesture, an attitude in simplicity.” It could also be that Waight Keller’s work at Chloe was a faithful update of the Chloé girl, as imagined by its founder Gaby Aghion – and her ability to translate heritage to contemporary will have been noted by Givenchy. The industry will be intrigued to see what Weight Keller’s approach is. In a statement, she said “Hubert de Givenchy’s confident style has always been an inspiration and I am very grateful for the opportunity to be a part of this legendary house’s history.”