My dad didn’t see me score a goal until the final season I played for my school. This wasn’t because I had scored on those very odd occasions he hadn’t been able to make it. It was because I had never put the ball in the back of the net for the school. Seventeen years I had been on the earth, for roughly nine of them I had been in football teams, for six of them I had played for this school and through all of them I had never scored a goal.It all changed on the last Saturday in November in 1990. Even though it is 26 years ago, I can be specific about the date, because as well as my goal drought ending I passed my driving test and my now wife asked me out. (As I said in my groom’s speech, “Let me tell you about how the most important of those three events came about …”)We were playing our biggest local rivals. We had played them twice a year, every year throughout our school career and this was going to be our final ever home game against them. In every one of those games, I had gone up against the same striker. A lad with the surname Pinkerton. Taller than me, stronger than me and more cumbersome than me. His teammates constantly referred to him as Pinky, which was hilarious to us as we made our way through the age groups. His dad, just like mine, was present at every game we played against them. Always dressed in a bobble hat and scarf in the school’s colours, he would have matched my mum for catwalk elegance if I hadn’t banned her. The two dads would often stand in the same area, no doubt laughing at the stupidity of their sons as they tried to take lumps out of each other.There was nothing special about this game – a typical wet, cold, grey Mancunian morning – until, with just moments left in the game and us 2–1 down, the ball came to me. I was on the halfway line with space in front of me. I took a touch, then another and another. I couldn’t get the bloody thing under control. By the time I had I was 10 to 15 yards inside the opponents’ half. My teammates were screaming for me to pass to them, knowing that if I didn’t I would lose possession. I looked up. I ignored the cries for the ball, took one final touch and then hammered the ball towards goal. From forty yards.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mark Chapman with his dad.I have no idea how but I caught it just right. It flew towards the goal. Their keeper had been off his line and he started to backpedal. For a couple of seconds, as he started to go backwards and the ball arced towards his net. I didn’t know what to do. I had never had to celebrate before and fortunately my decision was taken for me as my surprised teammates launched themselves on me. I am told that my dad jumped so high when the ball hit the back of the net that he nearly had to be rescued from one of the trees that lined that pitch. There was laughter followed by grunts and howls of surprise from all the lads on top of me and from underneath all my teammates’ bodies I could just make my dad out. He was shaking the outstretched hand of Pinky’s dad. All of these moments make it worth it. And when you are not there, it hurts I thought his joy was slightly over the top: after all, it was me who had scored the wonder goal, me who had broken my duck, me who was taking the glory. It was only when I had children that I understood his sheer elation. We freeze on touchlines, we sweat on balconies, we struggle with hair clips just to experience those moments. Those moments when your child does something special; those moments when they turn and look at you and just beam with joy. Those moments when they are mobbed by overjoyed teammates and those moments when they feel they have contributed.When they happen, the wet, the mud, the journeys, the tantrums, the arguments and the nerves are all worth it. When they touch the wall first in a swimming race and turn around looking for you, beaming, as they struggle to remove their goggles; when they score the winning penalty in a shootout in a tournament to go through to the next round and are jumped on by their teammates; when they finish the floor routine in front of you and let out a huge sigh of relief because it has gone to plan. All of these moments make it worth it. And when you are not there, it hurts. Family life and work life make it nigh on impossible to be at every single thing your child does, but I feel a tremendous guilt when I know I can’t watch them. It is worsened if they have done something really well in my absence, knowing that they might have turned round to smile or put their thumbs up and then realised I wasn’t there to share their joy.Mark Chapman’s favourite TV I always want them to do well, but when I get the call from an event that I haven’t been able to attend I wonder whether I sometimes find it easier when it hasn’t gone as well. If I’m told my son Ben’s team have lost 6-1, or my daughter Jessie didn’t win her swimming race, is there a part of me that thinks “well, thank goodness I haven’t missed something special”? Yes, I think there probably is. When I hear that Ben scored a special goal to win a tournament or that Jessie scored her highest mark to win a vault competition, do I beat myself up that I wasn’t there to see it? Yes, definitely. I feel sorry for myself that I wasn’t there and I wonder if they wish I had been there to see it too.My 40-yard thunderbolt for my school team wasn’t special because it was against our local rivals. It wasn’t special because I had the last laugh over Pinkerton. It wasn’t special because I had never scored before and thought I would never score for school. It was special because my dad was there. I had made my dad happy.• This is an edited extract from The Love of the Game: Parenthood, Sport and Me by Mark Chapman published by Orion, £16.99. To order a copy for £13.93, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call the Guardian Bookshop on 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.