Join the club, or rather the list. According to the Allotment Waiting List report for 2011 (naslg.com) there are 57 people waiting per 100 plots in the UK. That adds up to more than 86,000 people in the UK whose dreams of digging for victory are on hold. The report also included plenty of anecdotal evidence that, in common with you, many would-be diggers are being told by councils that there is little or no point going on waiting lists. Not necessarily true. There are quirks with these lists – for example, people often put their name down for more than one allotment in different areas but stay on a list after they've got one. If discrepancies were cleared up and lists better managed, you might move up quite a few spaces. Some have become so desperate that they are turning to private allotment schemes such as that offered by the thenewallotmentcompany.com, where you can rent growing space.Let's consider the top reasons as to why allotments are so vital to a more ethical landscape. Report after report points to the fact that the UK food supply is inextricably linked to oil. According to the Transition Town movement among others iIt's imperative that we de-link our basic food from imported produce dependent on fossil fuel fertilizser, shipping and airfreight fuel, and diesel for trucks. The phrase "nine meals from anarchy", attributed to Lord Cameron of Dillington when he was head of the Countryside Agency, suggests wthat without petrol we would run out of food on the supermarket shelves within three days. Allotments help break that cycle and increase food security. They give access to food with a known provenance and remove the burden of food miles that comes with most fresh produce we consume. They offer a genuinely low cost way of boosting the quotient of fresh fruit and vegetables in a diet. There is evidence of a genuine therapeutic benefit to working an allotment too. What's not to like?Local authorities have a statutory duty to provide allotments, thanks to the Small Holdings and Allotments Act of 1908, section 23. This makes it even more galling that over the past decade between 5,000 and 10,000 plots have been lost. And the average plot size has shrunk from the traditional 250sq metres to 160sq metres as councils indulge in a bit of a trick I like to call the plot splice, creating "new" allotments by splicing plots.This hasn't helped the good people of Ashton-under-Lyne in Manchester. Hundreds waited for a decade on a list for allotments. Meanwhile the council appears to have played responsibility ping pong with a developer who had bought land on Ashton Moss regeneration site previously promised for allotments. Earlier this year the worm turned and the Ashton Allotment Action moved on to the land claiming squatters' rights.When I visited recently they had borrowed a rotavator and were busy planting out vegetables. The mood verged on euphoric, despite the threat that all their hard work and potatoes could be undone if the council or developer elects to remove them. There are, however, several factors that I feel boost the argument of these guerrilla gardeners, including the fact that, as activist and Green party councillor Nigel Rolland pointed out, the land had been partially developed and then left, so it was actually degrading as weeds took hold, leaching nutrients from the soil and turning the area into a virtual wasteland. Land is sitting there doing nothing but is actually slipping into very bad condition.The message to developers and councils must be "Use it or lose it" to increasingly frustrated guerrilla gardeners. Can you dig it?