Hi Huey. Where are you and what can you see?I’m at my house out in Somerset. I can see my car and a whole bunch of land. Are you going to do any building on the land?Well, it’s an old Georgian house so we’re limited, but I did have a guy call round this morning to put a new conservatory up. It should be cool when it’s done.  What was the last item of crockery you broke? (1)This happened today: I was in my mannex, which is what I call my man cave, and I knocked a glass over. I’m hoping to go to Asda and replace it before my wife finds out. The Fun Lovin' Criminal and his wife and former agent on their special relationship  Do you buy all your glasses in Asda?Oh hell yeah man! I’ve got kids, dude, stuff breaks all the time! Where else am I gonna go? What am I gonna do? Are you gonna spend £20 on a single water glass? It’s just gonna break! It’s just a glass! It doesn’t make any sense! Do you think current pop artists would benefit from a short spell in the marines? (2)It’s a contradiction in terms that you can’t do a short spell in the marines! But they could do with a reality check. A lot of them are very young. Being in the marines is definitely a part of why I kept my head about me, but I was 27 when [Fun Lovin’ Criminals] signed our record deal, so I was kind of grown-up by then. The maturity level helped me realise what the world’s really about. I guess some artists could do with a dose of Huey bootcamp though. Put them in fatigues out in Somerset, make them do pushups until they throw up, then sing their fucking songs. Fun Lovin’ Criminals are reissuing Come Find Yourself (3) as a £50 box set. That seems quite a reasonable price, considering some box sets go for hundreds of quid?We didn’t try to break banks. A box set should just be all the stuff attached to that record. You don’t want, like, a road case with a band’s name stencilled on it, or a shot glass, or a tour laminate. (4) So it’s the instrumental tracks, a lot of the session stuff, and there’s a DVD with it, too. It’s what we did in the studio aside from the actual LP – they weren’t intended to be secrets, they were just things we didn’t think anybody would be interested in. Twenty years down the line our fans pretty much asked for all this extra material.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest    All these years after you bought yours online, would you advise other people to buy lordships?I was buying a bunch of my friends lordships while I was on the internet, and I thought fuck it, I’ll get myself one, too. It costs like fifty bucks, but if you buy a lot they give you a discount. (5) So me and my friends are lords and viscounts and that sort of shit. In New York City it works really good. People in restaurants are like: “He’s a lord! Give him that table!” Can we talk about the time you competed in BBC2’s Underdog Show? (6)That was for charity, dude. And I love dogs. My dogs saved my ass from a lot of nefarious stuff I could have got into when I was first coming up. I had to go home and walk the dog because I didn’t want shit in my house. I had to break out and say, “Look, ladies, I can’t hang out all night with you, I have to walk my dog.” The Underdog Show was me paying dogs back. I didn’t know I was going to be on until the end, but people kept voting me back on! I asked my manager, “How do I get out of this?” He said: “Kick the dog on TV.” But that wasn’t going to happen.  When it looked like you might win, did you consider sabotaging the other celebrities?No, but there was a point when the dude who was a lawyer ... Clive Anderson ... I mean, that little fucker took it seriously, man. He got voted off and a week later my driver told me that he’d also driven Clive Anderson, and he was pissed off. I bumped into the dude after that, too, and he was like, “I still can’t believe you beat me.” This is the worst celebrity beef of all time.It was a one-sided beef! But he was miffed.You then went on to present Pet Nation with Liza Tarbuck on Sky One. What’s the trick to being able to do that, but also present a show on 6 Music? It’s not a trick, I’m just a real motherfucker! What else are you up to these days?I do consulting for different companies around the world – sometimes record labels ask me to listen to music and see what I think about it, because apparently since I’ve been doing the Radio 2 and 6 Music shows, they think I know what I’m doing. I don’t know what I’m doing really, but I’ll take their money. Have you mysteriously influenced any artists in the charts right now?(Cackles) Yeah, funnily enough, I have … I can’t really talk about it because I’ve signed an NDA.  I’m sure you put in a lot of effort and that your experience shouldn’t be undervalued, but that sounds like easy money.Oh, it’s straight-up easy money, dude. All you’ve got to do is sell 10m records, and people will care what you think.1 Huey smashed a mug and walked off during a 2013 episode of Never Mind the Buzzcocks. 2 A judge offered the teenage Huey a choice of jail or the US marines; Huey opted for the latter. 3 After its 1996 release, Fun Lovin’ Criminals’ multi-platinum debut album spent over two years on the album chart. 4 In 2009, a 10-disc Rammstein box set came with handcuffs, lubricant and six dildos modelled on the band’s members’ members. 5 Lordtitles.co.uk appear to be offering lordships for £24.95, with Lord and Lady packages at £36.95. 6 The Crufts-inspired, Julian Clary-hosted BBC2 show ran for two series. In the first, Huey competed against the likes of Selina Scott, Theo Paphitis and Anton du Beke.