It might not be what you’d expect from a soap that first aired in 1960, but credit to Coronation Street for tackling one of the most modern of crimes. In a storyline that’s set to finish this week (warning: spoilers), viewers have watched bistro waitress Steph Britton become the victim of revenge pornography – when her ex-boyfriend, Jamie Bowman (played with suitably shifty creepiness by James Atherton), leaked naked photos of her online. At times, the writers’ handling of the issue hasn’t shown the cobbles to be a bastion of feminism. (Granted, the fact that Corrie factory boss Carla got divorced and inexplicably reverted to her previous ex-husband’s surname instead of her own suggests this may have been too much to ask.) It says plenty that Jamie only threatened to leak the photos of Steph as a way to blackmail her brother, Luke. Meanwhile, Steph’s boyfriend, Andy, reacted to learning about his girlfriend’s ordeal with the sort of wounded male pride typically saved for a 10-year-old who has had his favourite toy stolen. Luke and Andy – characters who shouldn’t be trusted with a hamster, let alone a criminal investigation – have spent the past couple of weeks embodying two disgruntled white knights, defending Steph’s honour all the way to Manchester city centre. They’ve exposed Jamie’s awful actions to his girlfriend, as well as his boss. Luckily, producers have remembered to also put the focus on Steph (played ably by the otherwise underused Tish Merry). We’ve seen her paranoia at men laughing at their phones and her anger at Facebook friends commenting with faux sympathy under the explicit photos. The recent scene in which she shared her feelings of humiliation and self-blame with boss Leanne Battersby – a character previously coerced into prostitution – was brilliantly done, and prompted Steph to report the crime to the police. This seems crucial. Revenge porn has hit the headlines over the past few years through high-profile cases such as ex-X Factor singer Tulisa Contostavlos’s ex-boyfriend Justin Edwards, but was only made a specific criminal offence in April 2015. It wouldn’t be a surprise if the moment when Jamie was arrested was the first time many viewers thought about the reality of revenge porn, or knew that it is now punishable by up to two years in prison. The discussion of a current issue – let alone a feminist one – can feel tacked-on in soaps, as if producers are flitting between titillation and teaching. After all, this week’s other major Coronation Street storyline is the dead body that happens to be entombed under Gail Platt’s bedroom annex. But it’s hard to dismiss the educational power of soap operas. You only have to look to UK television’s first gay kiss, on EastEnders – or in recent years the Masood family’s depiction of Islam or Emmerdale’s portrayal of older women at risk of HIV – to appreciate the impact a revenge porn storyline could have.Merry has said she hopes her character’s plight will help keep girls safe by encouraging them to “think twice about taking” intimate photos. As viewers wait to watch Jamie get his comeuppance, I can’t help but hope, rather, that the greatest impact the story will have will be on making cruel exes think twice about sharing them. The best message will be for a guilt-free to Steph to get her fun and confidence back. Oh – and to throw a pint over Andy in the Rovers. 