At 11.30pm on Tuesday, Drake put out a notice on Instagram. It wasn’t to announce a follow-up to his number one album Views, or yet more tour dates, but something more important: the details of his latest pop-up store.  Drake’s communique. Photograph: @champagnepapi/InstagramPop-up merchandise shops have become a key component of rap tours and this is Drake’s second in New York this year. Kanye claimed he racked up $1m at his store to promote The Life of Pablo in March, and Future, Odd Future and Bad Boy also had their own. Drake fans made the pilgrimage to his Summer Sixteen pop-up in the Bowery in Manhattan, which opened a day before his tour with Future came to Madison Square Garden. Everyone was there for their own reasons, be it business, networking or tagging along with a friend. We spoke to a selection and found out why anyone would queue for hours for a hoodie with a picture of Drake’s dog on it.Ali, the uber fan: ‘I just love his music’Standing in the small rectangular store, flicking through the sparsely filled racks, Ali Abnousi is preparing to see Drake in concert the next day.Abnousi and his friend Andrew Parino showed up at 5.30am and waited six and a half hours so they could spend $200.“I just love his music,” Abnousi said. “It’s great. I just feel like he’s got the generation by its throat. He’s doing his thing right now.“Every generation has its artists, he’s ours.”Abnousi is only 19 and first listened to Drake at the tender age of 12. “I grew up listening to him for a long time. He’s just my favorite artist.”He’s keen to point out he keeps the clothes he buys, as many come to the pop-up simply to resell. For him it’s not about the money: “We love Drake.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Drake’s pop-up store in New York. Photograph: Mazin Sidahmed for the GuardianNicholas, the connoisseur: ‘You should do it, and you’ll probably look fly’Under the midday sun, Nicholas Hernandez is standing in line, wearing a black T-shirt, a black hat, with another black shirt flung over his shoulder.“I keep myself cool,” Hernandez said in complete contradiction of his wardrobe. “I do this often.”This isn’t Nicholas’s first rodeo. The 17-year-old high school student is a pop-up shop connoisseur. If there’s a pop-up that’s “trending” or “hype”, he said, he’s there. It’s also a business. He buys multiple of everything and sells most of it at double the price. He already has a network of customers so it’s sold before he even buys it.Today he travelled from Jersey City at 8am to wait in line for the Summer Sixteen gear.“It’s like fun for me, he said, before suggesting: “You should do it, and you’ll probably look fly.”Mike, the blogger: ‘I’m currently building my own brand’Mike Egotanda was at work during the pop-up. He stood at the front of the line to film the event.“I want to make a quick video for social media,” Egotanda said. “Showing that I was out here. Hitting big events and things like that.”Mike doesn’t miss anything in the city. He runs the Twitter account @PesoParis where he keeps his almost 10,000 followers informed on what’s happening in the world of rap.“Going to events such as these is important because I’m currently building my own brand, and working to be the best in my industry,” he said. It’s also a great place to network with other industry insiders. His friend and rapper Levi had stacked up emails from “the biggest blogs on the internet” who he planned to blast when his new EP drops next month. Levi waited in line from 5am, only to let Egotanda take his place when the doors opened.“I’m strictly here for networking purposes,” he said. “Power moves.”Canada is making a national music playlist. What songs should be included? Marco, the patriot: ‘He represents our city, our country’Most fans there were under 21, some even had their parents to boot. Marco Siola, his parents and his brother were visiting New York from Toronto this week. Siola saw on Drake’s announcement on Instagram and, as a Canadian, he felt compelled to attend.“He represents our city, our country,” Siola said. “He’s a good role model, and ambassador. To, like, us, and Canada as a whole and our cities.”Siola, who is from Toronto suburb Oakville, got into Drake in the ninth grade when he started getting more into the culture of rap music.His mother and father didn’t seem too familiar with Aubrey Graham’s work, and Siola failed to mention that attending a pop-up would involve waiting in line for hours. “He’s buying us dinner tonight,” his father said.Jeremy, the annoyed boyfriend: ‘Personally, I think it’s stupid’Not everyone was happy to be there. Jeremy Torres was visibly exhausted as he slumped on a chair outside a Chinese restaurant on Bowery Street, while waiting in line. Like a few others, he’d been dragged there by his partner.“I’m not getting nothing,” he moaned. “I just came for her. I’ve been standing for so long, I’m tired.”The East Village native was unimpressed by the entire event. While he’s a fan of Drake, he doesn’t see what would compel someone to wait in line for his clothes.“Personally, I think it’s stupid. Just doing her favor.”The 19-year old wasn’t sure what his girlfriend was going to buy, but he guessed it would be “a hat with an owl on it”.