I once met a woman called Glenda who told me that, in 45 years of marriage, she had never missed her weekly hair appointment and had never cooked her husband the same dinner twice. At the start of each week she would plan the six meals – the seventh was a meal out – bookmarking cookbooks and ripping recipes out of magazines. She also kept lists of all the recipes ever made, often noting with a word or two how the recipe had worked, how it was received, and even how it was digested. The digestive notes were mostly feedback from her husband, who apparently had a minor medical issue that she didn’t go into as we were on a bus.Glenda had recently been given my book as a gift, and told me it had provided four dinners so far. I asked which ones, to which she replied, apologetically, that even though they were quite recent dinners, she didn’t have her notebook with her, and could only remember two. The first was saltimbocca, which she had made with chicken as she couldn’t find veal, and it had been a great success. The second, pasta e ceci, they had both enjoyed so much that her husband didn’t mind the fact he had to double his flatulence pills for two days.Soon after this revelation, our bus lurched to a stop and we parted ways. Our conversation was unfinished. I was left with so many unanswered questions, about the exact nature of the lists and notes; if she was ever tempted to make anything again; about that medical condition. I could have spent hours with Glenda talking about 45 years of dinners, and her hairdresser, and felt disappointed we didn’t have the chance. This regret, and sharp memory of her expressive face is probably why she remains clear in my mind, and why, when I make something for the fourth time in quick succession, I might think “Glenda would never do this”.Rachel Roddy’s recipe for pasta with broccoli and sausage | A kitchen in Rome Not that I have any problem making things again and again. In fact I like it, and find it a reassuring relief. Maybe this is one of the reasons I have settled happily in Rome, a city which still observes an informal weekly menu in trattorie, and in homes: Tuesday pasta e ceci, Thursday gnocchi, Friday fish, Sunday lamb with potatoes. However, what I do have in common with Glenda is that I keep notes, or rather lists: I come from a family of dedicated list makers. Unlike her, though, my food notes don’t show the differences, but the repetition, the fact that I am devoted to certain things, and that when I find something I like I am back to my 11-year-old self with a new single, playing it again and again.Talking of which, do you remember the summer vegetable bake a recipe from last September? It was made with tomatoes, courgettes, potatoes, onions, oregano and lots of olive oil. The aroma as it bakes is so good that workmen might stop, for a moment, at your door. The first time I made it, it felt like an old friend, and immediately became a regular around here – possibly too regular – which meant it wasn’t a bad thing when it was put away with the shorts and floor fan.Last week, it crossed my mind to do a winter version. But what to put in it? Potatoes, butternut squash and onions sprang to mind, making it a little bit like a mixed root boulangere. But it needed ... something else? I was picking up the onions at the market when it came to me: they would go well with red chicory, which is particularly good at the moment. There’s the small cabbage-like radicchio di Chioggia and also radicchio Treviso, its long slender leaves the colour of a bishop’s robe. Radicchio is not only a fine, pleasingly bitter salad – especially with walnuts, soft cheese and balsamic vinegar – it also grills and bakes beautifully. It sounds counterintuitive to cook salad leaves, but sandwiched between layers of potatoes and squash, radicchio wilts beautifully, providing a soft, ever-so-slightly bitter layer that contrasts with the sweetness of the red onion and squash. Like the summer version, the idea is that the underneath becomes tender, the top slightly crisp and the edges sticky. But for this winter one I arranged the top, which meant I didn’t mix everything midway. Instead I press the top down with the back of a wooden spoon twice during cooking, so the liquid comes up and over the edges a little.Yes, it is just roasted vegetables, but it is a gorgeous combination of flavours, especially good with cheese on top. We had salted ricotta, but I think goat’s, feta, or any soft or grilled cheese would work, as would sausages, lamb chops or a spoonful of hummus. For now, this bake is on heavy rotation with braised lentils, pasta and potatoes and roast chicken. I just wonder what Glenda and her husband would make of it.Winter vegetable bakeServes 3-41 butternut squash (about 500-600g of flesh)500g potatoes2 red onions200g radicchio, base trimmed4 sage leaves, chopped (optional)Salt and black pepper120ml extra virgin olive oil120ml water or light vegetable stockFeta, salted ricotta, goat’s cheese and bread, to serve1 Preheat your oven to 190C/375F/gas mark 5. I use a round aluminum pan.2 Peel the squash and cut it into 50mm long x 5mm thick pieces. Do the same with the potatoes. Peel, halve and slice the onion into chunky half moons. Slice the radicchio leaves into thick strips.3 Rub a large, metal baking tray or dish with oil. Arrange an overlapping layer of squash and potato in the tray. Make a layer with half the onion, then another with the radicchio and sage. Sprinkle with salt. Make another layer of onion. Cover the radicchio with the rest of the squash and potato. Finish with salt, the olive oil and water.4 Bake for 60-75 minutes, or until the top is slightly golden, the edges bubbling and the vegetables underneath very soft. Let it rest for 10 minutes before serving with slices of the cheese top so they soften slightly in the heat.Rachel Roddy is a food writer based in Rome and the author of Five Quarters: Recipes and Notes from a Kitchen in Rome (Saltyard) and winner of the André Simon food book award; @racheleats