A £10m fundraising campaign has been launched to buy a portrait of Elizabeth I considered one of the most important painted images in British history.The “Armada portrait” was owned by Sir Francis Drake and has been passed down through his family with the current owners now deciding to sell.On Monday the National Maritime Museum and the Art Fund announced a campaign to raise the required £10m to acquire it for the national collection.The portrait is hugely recognisable. Kevin Fewster, director of Royal Museums Greenwich, said it was among the most famous images in British history, a staple of school text books and the inspiration for many film and stage portrayals of Elizabeth.“It is one of the definitive representations of the English Renaissance, capturing the creativity, the ideals and ambitions of the Elizabethan era.”The portrait was painted by an unknown artist around 1590 and eulogises one of the most famous of all conflicts in British history: thwarting the invasion of England by the Armada of Spain, the European superpower of the 16th century.Elizabeth, then in her late 50s, is shown as the “epitome of regal elegance”, said Christine Riding, head of art at the museum’s Queen’s House gallery. “Her dress is like an armour showing that she, the Virgin Queen, is actually impregnable and has defended her realm against the Spanish.”The painting is unusually large and horizontal for its time but there is a lot going on. Behind Elizabeth are two seascapes. One of the English fleet, preparing for battle and the other of the Spanish Armada, defeated and wrecked off the coast of Ireland. One of the Queen’s hands – “she was very proud of her beautiful hands”, said Riding – is touching a globe and specifically covering the Americas, a representation of her pride at the recent colonisation of the continent. Elsewhere there is a mermaid, the creature who lures sailors to their early deaths.A price of £10m has been agreed with the family. Because that is net it means the Treasury is forgoing around £6m in tax. The Art Fund – the national fundraising charity for art – has pledged £1m and the gallery itself is contributing £400,000, its entire acquisitions budget for at least a year.“So only £8.6m to go,” said Stephen Deuchar, director of the Art Fund. “We are very anxious that it shouldn’t go out on the open market which will inevitably happen, I’m afraid, if we fail to raise this sum.”Deuchar said public contributions, no matter how small, would be critical as experience showed that trusts and foundations were more likely to contribute large amounts if there was a healthy public response.The campaign hopes to raise the money in around two months and, if successful, the museum plans to hang the portrait in the Queen’s House which is on the site of the original Greenwich Palace, the political and symbolic centre of the Tudor dynasty and Elizabeth’s birthplace.Fewster said the 90th birthday celebrations for the second Queen Elizabeth added an extra dimension to the campaign.The painting was owned and may even have been commissioned by Drake, one of the great heroes of Elizabeth’s court who circumnavigated the globe.It has been in the possession of his descendants since at least 1775. Although it has regularly been lent out over the years, the painting’s home for much of its life was hanging over a mantelpiece in the Buckinghamshire country house Shardeloes, built in the late 18th century for William Drake. The Save the Armada campaign is one of the Art Fund’s most ambitious, equal to the successful £10m campaign to acquire Van Dyck’s self-portrait for the National Portrait Gallery.The portrait has gone on display at the National Maritime Museum in Greenwich. Donations can be made at artfund.org/armada or people can text ARMADA to 70800 to give £10.• This article was amended on 27 May 2016 to correct the instructions for making a donation via text message.