So the supermarkets are at it again: slashing food prices in the hope of gaining an inch on their rivals. Co-op, Tesco and Morrisons have all recently pledged to cut the cost of everyday staples, sparking a renewed price war at the tills.As supermarkets get set to battle it out over the price of semi-skimmed milk and sliced bread, it's worth asking who – if anyone – is set to gain? Naturally, the big retailers say it's a matter of economic survival. Hit by discount chains such as Lidl and Aldi, all the UK's big four food retailers are struggling to retain profits.Shareholders appear less certain, however. When Morrisons admitted back in March that its price-cutting strategy would halve profits, its share price nosedived 12%. Interestingly, so did that of Tesco and Sainsbury's, falling 4.9% and 8.4% respectively. In total, around £2bn was wiped off the collective share price of UK-listed supermarkets in a single day.Why? Because investors aren't stupid – at least when short-term profitably is concerned. They rightly guessed that a price war would ensue. Just as they were right to assume that if prices fall across the board, then revenues are likely follow. Some shoppers might be tempted to put a few more items in their basket, but not 17% more, which is the average price reduction anticipated by Morrisons.How about farmers? The supermarkets are quick to insist that they, not food producers, will absorb the repercussions. "This doesn't in any way affect our suppliers", said a spokesperson for Tesco. Morrisons confirm the same. If they can't find internal savings – and, after decades of efficiency drives, it's difficult to see where these would come from – then these two big supermarket brands are looking at a bill of £200m and £1bn respectively.Despite the supermarkets' assurances, food suppliers fear a future squeeze on margins. "We're very, very concerned about the impact of price wars on producers", says Barbara Crowther, policy director at the Fairtrade Foundation. She cites the example of the banana trade, the subject of a long running battle between UK supermarkets: "More than ten years of pushing down the price has led to a depression in the real value of banana exports in almost every producer country."The Fairtrade Foundation is calling on the government's new Competition and Markets Authority to launch an investigation into the prices paid by supermarkets to suppliers. "We would like to see a signal coming from the government to demonstrate that supermarkets are committing to the sustainable cost of production and sustainable livelihoods for producers", says Crowther.If there are any winners in all this, then it has to be the consumer, right? That's certainly the message from the Big Four supermarkets. "It's a difficult time [and] we're listening to our customers", states a Tesco spokesperson. People want cheap food, it's argued. Hence the 35% year-on-year increase in Aldi's sales. And hence Morrisons' new "I'm cheaper" strapline.But is ever cheaper food really sustainable? Is fair wages for farmers and environmentally friendly agriculture genuinely possible at rock-bottom, Aldi-esque prices? Tight margins will inevitably restrict food producers ability to deal with diseases and the effects of climate change, which UK supermarket Asda says could impact 95% of its fresh produce range. Sustainable production methods can also be expected to give way to highly destructive, yet (temporarily) profitable monoculture farming. So consumers win, but at the cost of the planet.In the long-run, however, the gains for consumers look dubious too. Yes their wallets might be lighter today, but their larders could become a lot sparser and their health a lot worse as hyper-industrialised agriculture takes root. The horsemeat scandal is just a taste of what's to come."As a society, we think it's our right to have cheap food … but it isn't really cheap at all", argues Patrick Holden, founder of the non-profit Sustainable Food Trust and former head of the Soil Association. The reason it appears cheap, he continues, is because no-one is currently picking up the cost of water pollution, soil fertility loss and the other so-called "negative externalities" of modern intensive farming.Cutting food waste is the most obvious way to make food more affordable for today's consumers today. Cutting prices merely makes it more expensive for all of us tomorrow.The food hub is funded by the Irish Food Board. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out more here.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox