The Threepenny Opera (1956)From the Observer review by Kenneth Tynan (12 February 1956): It has taken a long time to establish a bridgehead in London for the works of Bertolt Brecht … A Brechtian, let me explain, is one who believes that low drama with high principles is better than high principles with no audiences; that the worst plays are those which depend wholly on suspense and the illusion of reality; and that the drama of the future will be a wedding of song and narrative in which neither partner marries beneath itself. The Threepenny Opera is the pure meat of Brecht: rough, harsh and salty on the palate. It is dated, if at all, only in the sense that most contemporary musicals are obsolete. It sets reality to music.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   John Osborne, right, with Kenneth Haigh who played Jimmy Porter in Look Back in Anger. Photograph: Frank Pocklington/Getty ImagesLook Back in Anger (1956)From the Guardian review by Philip Hope-Wallace (9 May 1956): The English Stage Company at the Royal Court theatre last night brought forward a first play by a young man, John Osborne. It is by no means a total success artistically but it has enough tension, feeling and originality of theme and speech to make the choice understandable, and must have awoken echoes in anyone who has not forgotten the frustrations of youth.Mr Osborne’s hero, a self-pitying, self-dramatising intellectual rebel who drives his wife away, takes a mistress and then drops her when his wife crawls back, will not be thought an edifying example of chivalry. But those who have not lost the power to examine themselves will probably find something basically true in the prolix, shapeless study of a futile, frustrated wretch, even if they do not get as far as extending much sympathy to him.The Entertainer (1957)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Laurence Olivier with Dorothy Tutin during rehearsals for The Entertainer. Photograph: PAFrom the Great performances series by Michael Billington: Everything about Olivier’s Archie Rice looked right from the moment you first saw him: the check suit, the bow tie, the white socks, the grey bowler hat. But Olivier, who frequented the old Collins’ Music Hall before starting rehearsals, didn’t just get the costume right. He once described himself as a born “pub entertainer”, and also caught the seedy heroism of the standup comic … It was the first sign of the theatrical establishment of the day embracing the Royal Court.Roots (1960)From the Observer review by Kenneth Tynan (3 July 1960): The miraculous thing about Roots – part two of Arnold Wesker’s trilogy – is that its author has managed to build an intensely moving play out of the raw materials of old-fashioned kitchen comedy, if not of outright farce. Ignorant rustics, pap-fed on pop songs; baths taken in the kitchen; the domestic row in which Mum won’t address Dad except through a third person; the family high tea, complete with trifle, mayonnaise bottle and uncomfortably brilliantined yokels; the arty daughter with ideas above her station; the wife who tells her ailing husband that he has indigestion between the shoulder blades … His achievement is to have set them in a context of such tangible reality that sympathy banishes belly laughs. It is Chekhov’s method, applied not to the country gentry but to the peasants at the gate.The Knack (1962)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rita Tushingham and Julian Glover during rehearsals for The Knack. Photograph: Keystone/Getty ImagesAnn Jellicoe, playwright: My play The Sport of My Mad Mother won a prize in the Observer’s playwriting competition, set up by Kenneth Tynan, and was produced at the Royal Court in 1958. Then I wrote The Knack, whose characters all grew from people I knew. Rita Tushingham was wonderful. She could mime anything – she’d just do it off the top of her head. The Royal Court was an extraordinary place and George Devine, its artistic director, an extraordinary man. He once said, referring to the title of my first play: “I regard myself as your mad uncle.” Without doubt, it was the most exciting time of my life. The 60s were beginning to swing. Anything seemed possible at the Court. If you had an idea, they would take it up. If you wanted to put on a revue, George would give you all the support you needed. I remember my husband, the photographer Roger Mayne, put up one of his nude photographs somewhere backstage. The lighting man said: “As long as that photograph stays there, I’m not going to light Ann Jellicoe’s plays.” George, who knew more about lighting than anyone, said: “Look, either you light Ann’s plays or I’ll light Ann’s plays.” That was the kind of support you had.Saved (1965)From Laurence Olivier’s letter to the Observer (21 November 1965): May I be allowed a word concerning the much-fought-over play Saved, by Edward Bond, at the Royal Court? … In his play of marvellously observed dialogue and first-rate dramatic form, Bond places his act of violence in the first half, as is done in Macbeth, Julius Caesar, etc. Unfortunately the extreme horror of this scene has run away with most dramatic criticism and blinded it to the rare qualities shown in the rest of the play … Saved is not for children but it is for grown-ups, and the grown-ups of this country should have the courage to look at it: and if we do not find precisely the mirror held up to nature in which we can see ourselves, then at least we can experience the sacramental catharsis of a very chastening look at the sort of ground we have prepared for the next lot.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Laurence Olivier’s letter to the Observer in defence of Edward Bond’s Saved.The Lion and the Jewel (1966)Wole Soyinka, playwright: I’d moved from Nigeria to England and was at Leeds University. In 1957, when I was supposed to be doing my postgraduate studies, I went down to London and became absorbed by the Royal Court, where I was a script-reader and a kind of intern. This was just after Look Back in Anger. John Osborne was very angry with the establishment, contemptuous of what you might call bourgeois values. He enjoyed acting and would join us in our experimental performances. There was a lively group of us – we wrote plays, did sketches.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Wole Soyinka. Photograph: Rex/ShutterstockI went back to Nigeria and a few years later the Court put on my play The Lion and the Jewel. You could describe it as a comedy on the clash of cultures – that theme can be heavy-handed, solemn and tragic, but I preferred to look at the comical side. They invited me to London to see it. William Gaskill was artistic director by then. He kept up the free spirit of the Royal Court. I got along with him very well. The Lord Chamberlain’s office had been a powerful force of censorship and the Royal Court led a revolt against it. They circumvented the Lord Chamberlain by creating a private members’ club, so that you saw plays on a membership basis. The idea was revolutionary – just like many of the plays.DH Lawrence triptych (1968)From the Observer review by Ronald Bryden (17 March 1968): The image of the dead miner in his woman’s arms which ends The Widowing of Mrs Holroyd completes Peter Gill’s trilogy of plays by DH Lawrence at the Royal Court like the central panel of a great, long-dispersed triptych falling into place. Almost the best thing about this superb enterprise was the inspiration of putting together the three plays of childhood, marriage and death in a Nottinghamshire village as one panorama of English working-class life.Individually, perhaps, none of the plays [the others were A Collier’s Friday Night and The Daughter-in-Law] is quite a masterpiece. They are too early, too careful, each too narrow in scope for that. But even separately they have a truth and purity which makes the theatre’s normal currency of charm, humour and spectacle seem vulgar.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Review of DH Lawrence triptych at the Royal CourtRevenge (1969)From Nicholas de Jongh’s review (4 September 1969): We expect 26-year-old Cambridge graduates who have won an Arts Council bursary to write plays about young people’s convoluted sexual hangups, operating in circumstances of dissolution and boredom. Howard Brenton’s Revenge, presented at the Royal Court’s Theatre Upstairs, is different. His play, wrongheadedly subtitled a melodrama, is a curious assimilation of styles and manners, which owes something both to Orton and Dürrenmatt, but manages to create a technique of its own, ultimately concerned with the conflict between villain and police – a clash between two fanaticisms.The Rocky Horror Show (1973)Richard O’Brien: It was a golden moment to work there. I remember day after day of sitting on the front steps of the Court with all the other actors coming and going. We were very lucky to get Rocky done in the Theatre Upstairs. If the director Jim Sharman hadn’t twisted their arm a little, I don’t think it would have been put on. Over the years, it’s become the most successful show to ever come out of the English Stage Company. They’re still slightly embarrassed by that fact. The heavyweights there always wanted serious drama. The Court asked Jim to direct a David Williamson play, The Removalists. He said: “I will – as long as I can have three weeks’ fun upstairs first.” We took it from there.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Richard O’Brien. Photograph: Jane BownDavid Bowie was bringing theatre into rock’n’roll at the time. I’d seen rock’n’roll put into theatre but it was always pastiche. I wanted real rock’n’roll, in the simplest way. We squeezed 62 people into the audience upstairs. We stretched white fabric over the pillars, to make it look like a cinema screen, and had the band hidden behind. We had seats from an old cinema. The budget was tiny but Michael White stepped in and gave us £2,000 – an unusual amount for a little fringe theatre show. I had no idea whether people would like Rocky. But if we’d have been told to go and write our own reviews, we couldn’t have done any better.Class Enemy (1978) From Michael Billington’s Guardian review (7 April 1978): Nigel Williams’s Class Enemy strikes me as exactly the kind of play the Royal Court exists to uncover: a scathing study of one of the dark corners of our social system written with what one can only call a blazing promise. Set in a south London comprehensive school, it may endow the neglected inmates of class 5K with an excessive insight into their own problems, but as a piece of theatre, it has the impact of a fist … Bond made a similar point in Saved: that, however brutalising and arid a particular world may seem, there is something hopeful in an act as simple as a boy mending a chair.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Andrea Dunbar. Photograph: Don McPhee for the GuardianThe Arbor (1980)From a Guardian report by Andrew Veitch (12 March 1980): The Royal Court is giving four of the best entries in its Young Writers festival professional productions in repertory at the Theatre Upstairs for three weeks. There’s enough vitality here, and enough potential, to confound the greyest of greybeards … Last, and most striking, The Arbor by Andrea Dunbar is given the Max Stafford-Clark bare-boned, take-it-or-leave-it treatment, with nowt but canvas chairs as beds, or even a car. It’s the raw story of a 15-year-old girl from the Arbor estate in Bradford (now Ripper-land) … Perhaps its greatest quality is its simplicity: the plot is sketched out by actors lurking in the off-stage gloom, leaving the dialogue to carry us along. The effect is to expose every crevice of the characters.Top Girls (1982)Max Stafford-Clark (from How we made): Caryl Churchill was a writer I very much wanted to involve in the Royal Court when I was artistic director. We’d done a few things together, and she had this idea for a play that opened with mythical women from history having a dinner party. The dialogue was overlapping, with all these dashes written into the script, a technique she’d pioneered in an earlier play, Three More Sleepless Nights. I said: “Caryl, this is terrific, but you’ve written it for a cast of 17.” In 1982, a cast of 10 was pushing the boat out financially. Caryl said that was fine – we could double up, with the actors playing two or more parts – and so we rehearsed with a cast of seven. Directing Top Girls was like being behind the wheel of a Rolls-Royce: it’s a wonderful machine that works, whether you can drive it or not.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Directing Top Girls was like being behind the wheel of a Rolls-Royce.’ Photograph: Sue Adler for the ObserverVictory (1983)From Rosalind Carne’s Guardian review (28 March 1983): Howard Barker is a powerful and prodigious dramatist – one of our best. His latest play, subtitled Choices in Reaction, is set at the time of the restoration of Charles II, though with greater concern for modern echoes than historical precision. After the crushing of the rebel faction, a puritan widow, Bradshaw (Julie Covington), seeks her husband’s mutilated corpse, a quest which takes her from rural Suffolk into the court itself … The picaresque form gets appropriately picaresque treatment, by turns heightened, vulgar, poetic and often crudely exaggerated … Prudes will loathe it, as will the squeamish.Our Country’s Good (1988)Amanda Redman, actor: We all felt so cool to be working there. It was where young actors wanted to be. Max Stafford-Clark offered me a part in Our Country’s Good by Timberlake Wertenbaker. For me, Max was God. He terrified the life out of me but he is a genius. He expected everyone to be at the top of their game. I was starstruck: I was working with stalwarts from the Court like Ron Cook and Linda Bassett. It was a frightening process. Max had a very particular way of working. There was a lot of improvisation and workshopping. That’s very freeing but incredibly intense. It was heady stuff. Timberlake and Max would constantly discuss how scenes were working. Sometimes you’d come in the next morning and whole scenes had gone.Our Country’s Good is the story of convicts who went out to Australia in 1788 and put on a play, Farquhar’s Restoration comedy The Recruiting Officer. We did a revival of The Recruiting Officer in tandem with Our Country’s Good. The Court did so much new writing that Max was used to talking to his writers all the time, every night, changing lines and scenes. He couldn’t do that with Farquhar, so he wrote to him in a diary, which was published as a wonderful book called Letters to George.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pamela Nomvete, Cecilia Noble and Joanne Campbell in Talking in Tongues. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianTalking in Tongues (1991)From an Observer feature by Lisa O’Kelly (18 August 1991): When Winsome Pinnock was 16 she used to hang around the Royal Court theatre most weekends. “I was a real stage-struck teenager, sitting on the steps in Sloane Square.” Now, 13 years on, she is the Royal Court’s writer-in-residence and her latest play, Talking in Tongues, is about to open … It focuses on the lives of black women who have grown up in Britain, exploring their feelings towards white women and confronting their sexual relationships with black and white men … The previous generation of (mostly male) black playwrights tended to steer clear of such complex matters, opting for a robust, overtly political theatre. Pinnock prefers “to deal subtly with politics through emotional experience … I want to dig deep into the secret places of my characters’ minds and air those thoughts and feelings which are usually left unspoken.”Hysteria (1993)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Henry Goodman as Sigmund Freud in Hysteria. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianFrom a feature by Lyn Gardner (31 August 1993): Relations between the Royal Court and the Freud Museum were cordial until the latter got whiff of the knickers. Now the museum may no longer wish to be associated with Hysteria, a play which may – or may not – feature the underwear of Freud’s daughter, Anna, several naked women and a swan. Hysteria, subtitled Fragments of An Analysis of An Obsessional Neurosis, is written by Terry Johnson … “He is,” says Phyllida Lloyd, the director of Hysteria, “a complex theatre writer. He so completely understands the medium that he can work on different levels simultaneously. That’s real craftmanship. The challenge for a director is to try to reconcile the styles.”The other, and perhaps more pressing, challenge for Lloyd and designer Mark Thompson is to deal with the play’s demanding design requirements. There are not many plays whose stage directions include phones which turn into lobsters and clocks which melt. Such effects are difficult to achieve in the theatre, harder still on a Royal Court budget … “With false memory syndrome so much in the news this is a very topical play,” says Lloyd, “but Hysteria is full of so many tantalising and provocative ideas. It attempts to untangle the complex web of the man.” She adds with a twinkle in her eye: “I hope this play will do something to address the imbalance of Oleanna” – the controversial David Mamet play which immediately preceded it.Live Like Pigs (1993)From Lyn Gardner’s review (26 October 1993): From the punitive Elizabethan Poor Laws to the harassment of present-day travellers, English society has invented strictures and structures that reward those who settle down in little hutches, and turn the homeless into social outcasts. The clash of these two cultures reverberates loudly around the Royal Court Upstairs in this pertinent revival of John Arden’s play, first performed here 25 years ago. You wouldn’t know it. The language, spiced with a dark humour, spits and sings. The situation is piercingly relevant to the 1990s.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Katie Mitchell, centre, directs Ruth Lass and Kristin Hewson in Live Like Pigs. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianAll power to Katie Mitchell and Classics on a Shoestring for recognising the relevance and poetry of a play which hasn’t had a major production for more than 20 years … Ken Tynan and early critics tended to see the play as an attack on the welfare state. Arden’s even-handedness and the play’s interludes of Brechtian balladeering make it seem much more a parable about intolerance and prejudice, and a powerful plea for the need for harmonious co-existence … There are marvellous, unassuming, generous performances from the entire cast, though I particularly liked Kathryn Hunter’s Big Rachel, not the “tall, handsome termagant” of Arden’s description, but a small, malevolent figure with a fearsome growl.Blasted (1995)Kate Ashfield, actor: I read it on the bus one day when I was rehearsing Nick Grosso’s Peaches, directed by James Macdonald upstairs at the Royal Court. James was also doing Blasted and he gave me the part of Cate. I hadn’t done very much theatre at all. Sarah Kane’s writing was really shocking and surprising. The first scene is quite naturalistic – you don’t expect it to become as extreme as it does. Some of the stage directions are so striking: there are lines like “He eats the baby.” I was a bit worried about the blowjob scene. I didn’t know how we’d do some of the scenes in such a small, intimate space.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pip Donaghy and Kate Ashfield in Blasted. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianAt the read-through, some people at the Court were saying that it would be so dark and hard to do. But it was the opposite in rehearsals: we were all laughing all the time. The way I remember it, Sarah was there every day during rehearsals. She was really confident about her writing and had thought long and hard about the play. She was very pedantic about the grammar – what was a comma and what was a full stop. She was very bright and very funny … There was talk of Blasted transferring to the West End. If we’d all been free I think it would have gone directly into a theatre. But I had another commitment so it didn’t happen. I do remember feeling quite relieved because it really is a dark play. It was only on at the Court for three or four weeks – I couldn’t have stomached a long run.Mojo (1995)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tom Hollander, Aidan Gillen and David Westhead in Mojo. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianFrom Michael Billington’s review (20 July 1995): Jez Butterworth’s Mojo marks the Royal Court’s most dazzling main-stage debut in years. The fast-paced dialogue and the 1958 Soho gangland setting constantly suggest an Anglicised American Buffalo: this is a world in which little men talk big and dirty to disguise their panic and paranoia … Echoes abound: not only Mamet but Cagney gangster movies and even the recent work of Tarantino … It is not, I guess, intended as a real portrait of Soho in the 50s: it’s more Pulp Fiction than Espresso Bongo. But Butterworth’s nightmare vision is beautifully articulated in Ian Rickson’s hectic production and the ensemble playing is first-rate … At 26, Butterworth already knows how to rhythm a play, write cracking dialogue and build tension: I just pray the movies and cop series don’t bag him before he goes on to develop as a dramatist. He’s a great find.Shopping and Fucking (1996)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michael Billington’s review of Shopping and Fucking.From Michael Billington’s review (3 October 1996): The title is brutally explicit. But then so is Mark Ravenhill’s first play, jointly presented by Out of Joint and the Royal Court at the Ambassadors in London. It puts on stage a world of alienated youth for whom sex is simply a commercial transaction and for whom shopping and consumption are sexually arousing … Ravenhill’s target is clear: the perverted values of a world that believes, in the words of the ecstasy dealer, that “money is civilisation” … He leads us to expect, in the penultimate scene, that we shall witness Gary’s horrific need for anal penetration with a knife – mercifully we don’t but Ravenhill plays on our fears in ways I find suspect … Strangely, the chief sensory impression left behind, for all the sex and violence, is of the vile smell of the cheap microwave-cooked food which the characters hurl at each other in a symbol of society’s conspicuous waste.East is East (1996)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nadim Sawalha and Linda Bassett in East Is East. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianFrom Michael Billington’s review (26 November 1996): Ayub Khan-Din, whose East Is East riotously occupies the Royal Court Theatre Upstairs, is not the first writer to spot the dramatic possibilities in mixed Anglo-Pakistani parentage: Hanif Kureishi’s early work is all about the painful aspects of cultural collision. What makes Khan-Din unusual is that he opts for exuberant comedy and views the subject from a historical perspective … What lifts the play off the ground is Khan-Din’s hilariously accurate picture of family life. He shows the sundry divisions among the children, ranging from mockery of their tyrannical dad to, in one case, total adherence to his Islamic faith. He also captures the double standards of the immigrant traditionalist: in the play’s most telling line Ella, expected to put up with domestic battery while helping with chip-shop battering, reminds her husband, “I’m a Muslim wife when it suits you.”The Chairs (1997)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Richard Briers and Geraldine McEwan in The Chairs. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianFrom Susannah Clapp’s Observer review (30 November 1997): The Royal Court and Theatre de Complicite have a hit on their hands. In some respects it is an unlikely one. Eugene Ionesco’s The Chairs, first produced in Paris in 1952, the year before Waiting for Godot, skips between farce and tragedy, between fantasy and philosophical speculation. With the wrong touch, it could easily seem arid or arch or simply a quaint piece of 50s absurdism. But Simon McBurney’s production at the Duke of York’s [the Court’s temporary base while its Sloane Square home was being renovated] has perfect pitch. It has a sparkling translation by Martin Crimp and dizzying performances by Geraldine McEwan and Richard Briers. It dusts off and remakes a piece of theatrical history … Briers is full of subtle twists: by turns babyish and an incipient bully. McEwan finds a perfect niche for her rococo artificiality … The closeness of their acting together has the Complicite hallmark. So does the orchestration of sound effects: buzzers and bells and fanfares rise together in an unearthly chorus.Via Dolorosa (1998)From an interview with David Hare (4 September 1998): I could have written an article but journalism just doesn’t stick. I know far more about subjects I’ve seen plays about than those I’ve read about in newspapers or magazines … It’s rare for journalism to scour deep into the underlying meaning of a subject. Of course, reactions to this play will be diverse, and I’ll be fiercely attacked by Middle East specialists. But my claim has always been that people think more deeply when they think together. That’s what theatre does.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Hare in Via Dolorosa. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianAt the same time, I hope the play will be seen as a meditation on art. I talk about my visit to Yad Vashem, the museum of the Holocaust, and the sense that its sculpture and painting seem superfluous when set against the bare facts. I also understand the feeling of a Palestinian poet who wishes that a play could be half a poem and that you didn’t have to worry about the audience. Stephen Daldry, who is directing, says that the play only starts cooking when you forget it’s about Israel and Palestine … I suppose the test of this play will be whether audiences respond to the questions that certainly intrigue me. What does art add to this situation in the Middle East? How, if at all, does it illuminate?Terrorism (2003)From Michael Billington’s review (15 March 2003): A play with this title has an obvious resonance right now. But the extraordinary thing about this deft and brilliant piece by Siberia’s Presnyakov brothers is the way it extends the definition of “terrorism” to embrace most of modern Russian life. Structurally, the play is rather like a violent version of La Ronde; tonally, its mood of dazzling apocalyptic farce suggests the novels of Kurt Vonnegut or Joseph Heller … This is a play about the breakdown of society in contemporary Russia. What astonishes is the cool, sardonic wit that the Presnyakov brothers bring to their task. And this is beautifully realised both in Sasha Dugdale’s translation and in Ramin Gray’s poker-faced production. Instead of treating the characters as Gogolian grotesques, Gray assumes that violence is now an everyday fact of Russian life.My Name Is Rachel Corrie (2005)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Megan Dodds in My Name Is Rachel Corrie. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianFrom a feature by Katharine Viner (8 April 2005): I was asked by the Royal Court to edit the writings of Rachel Corrie into a drama with Alan Rickman, who was also directing. I had read the powerful emails she sent home from Gaza, serialised in G2 [days after she was killed by an Israeli bulldozer in the Gaza Strip trying to prevent the demolition of Palestinian homes]. But I didn’t know that Rachel’s early writing – before she even thought of travelling to the Middle East, from her days as a schoolgirl, through college, to life working at a mental-health centre in her home town of Olympia, Washington – would be similarly fascinating.The challenge was trying to construct a piece of theatre from fragments of journals, letters and emails, none of which was written with performance in mind … We’ve tried to do justice to the whole of Rachel: neither saint nor traitor, both serious and funny, messy and talented, devastatingly prescient and human and whole. Or, in her own words, “scattered and deviant and too loud”. We chose Rachel’s words rather than those of the thousands of Palestinian or Israeli victims because of the quality and accessibility of the writing. As Rickman says, “The activist part of her life is absolutely matched by the imaginative part of her life. I’ve no doubt at all that had she lived there would have been novels and plays pouring out of her.” The tragedy is that we’ll hear no more from Rachel Corrie.Motortown (2006)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ony Uhiara and Daniel Mays in Motortown. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianFrom Lyn Gardner’s review (25 April 2006): In Georg Büchner’s Woyzeck, a young illiterate soldier returns home from war and is so alienated that his only way of expressing himself is through violence. In the latest play from Simon Stephens, it is Danny – a squaddie who has served in Basra – who is bringing the war back home. To Danny it is not Iraq, but England that is the foreign country. “I don’t blame the war. The war was all right. I miss it. It’s just you come back to this,” he says … It is an England where the “war on terror” is waged using the tactics of the terrorists. It is also a place of dubious moralities, small-time arms dealers and middle class swingers and anti-war protesters.Nobody is coming up smelling of roses, and this England has all the stinking attractions of a dog turd … Anyone familiar with Stephens’ previous work may be in for a bit of a shock. In his excavations of working-class life, Stephens has often displayed a tender touch. Motortown is like being run over by a 10-tonne truck that doesn’t bother to check that you are still breathing.Gone Too Far! (2008)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Zawe Ashton in Gone Too Far! Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianBola Agbaje, playwright: I found the Royal Court’s Young Writers programme online. I wasn’t looking for the Court in particular. To be honest, I wasn’t even looking towards theatre – I was looking for a writing course on feature films. But it was an easy process: you signed up and turned up. Our tutors were Levi David Addai, whose play 92.3FM was on at the Court, and the director Dawn Walton. Each week we read and analysed a play, had mini-workshops, talked about structure, then went along to the Court’s bar. At the end of the course we were given a few weeks to write a play – that’s when I wrote Gone Too Far! I wanted to write a play about Peckham, where I grew up, about my Nigerian-British heritage and about knife crime. More than any of my other plays, it was a really organic process. I just went with what I was feeling; my emotions at the time. Dominic Cooke had just taken over at the Court and he selected Gone Too Far! for the Young Writers’ festival.The Court felt like a family-run business. Everyone was so friendly and welcoming and excited to develop something new. They’re so good at making you feel like part of the family – you just don’t get that at every theatre.Jerusalem (2009)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mark Rylance as Johnny ‘Rooster’ Byron in Jerusalem. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianFrom Susannah Clapp’s Observer review (19 July 2009): Jez Butterworth’s gorgeous, expansive new play keeps coming at its audience in unpredictable gusts, rolling from comic to furious, from winsome to bawdy … At the centre of Jerusalem is a wild man of the woods. Johnny “Rooster” Byron is a long-time mobile-home dweller, whose encampment, and existence, are under threat from the local townspeople and the police, and perhaps from his own enthralled but treacherous raggle-taggle retinue. Rooster is a drug dealer, an old biker, a dispenser of alcohol to the underage, a shielder of youth from more ferocious predators, a fabulist, a lord of misrule and a summoner of spirits. Butterworth puts into Rooster’s mouth gilded phrases and foul oaths, incantations and elaborate, detail-stuffed stories. He tells of golden stags and babies born with teeth and chest hair. He boasts about being kidnapped by traffic wardens. Mark Rylance doesn’t so much act the Rooster as embody him. In a further proof of his chameleon powers, he seems to have changed shape, to have thickened and grown in bulk … When he tells a story, he has the eerie but intimate touch of an enchanter; someone who sees everyone but seems to be looking only at you.Sucker Punch (2010)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Daniel Kaluuya in Sucker Punch. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianMiriam Buether, set designer: The Court is a versatile theatre for designers. For Mike Bartlett’s My Child, we basically built a whole new building inside the Court. We took out all the auditorium seats and did the same for Sucker Punch, written by Roy Williams and directed by Sacha Wares. We needed to create an arena for a sports event in the theatre, in a believable manner. I knew there had to be a boxing ring and a gym and that both had to work in parallel. We created an onstage balcony so they could turn it into a theatre in the round. It was quite a challenge to build – it looked, on the plan, more like an oil rig. It was difficult and expensive but they kept it to use on other shows. Designers often have battles with theatres about changing seating and reconfiguring the space, but your role is to design a whole environment properly. They let you do a lot at the Court. Taking out all the seats and buying a load of bucket chairs for the entire downstairs? That’s major. But they’re prepared to go all the way. Constellations (2012)Sally Hawkins, actor: Nick Payne’s play is about so many things: it’s a love story in several dimensions, across the multiverse. It was like nothing else I’ve ever read. Rafe Spall and I had to establish a rhythm. I had moments on stage where I realised I had no idea which universe I was supposed to be in. I’d think: Rafe is in another universe and I can’t quite remember how to get into that universe. Rafe could always tell – he saw the fear in my eyes a couple of times. But it was a thrilling ride – an intimate two-hander where you’re going 100 miles an hour.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sally Hawkins and Rafe Spall in Constellations. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianAt the Court, you’re protected. They are all about trying things out – if it doesn’t work, it doesn’t work. It doesn’t matter, that’s how you learn. The Theatre Upstairs is incredibly intimate. You’re aware of every single cough or twitch. The play touches a few nerves – it creeps up on you. Some people had quite violent reactions to it. Somebody fainted one night and was dragged out. You never really know what you’re going to get when you go to the Court.Tom Scutt’s design was so beautiful. I cried when I first saw it. Some of those balloons pulsated. On the last night, we all came outside to say goodbye. We didn’t really know whether there was a life beyond the Court for the play. It started to snow and, lit up from below, these thick, thick flakes of snow looked just like the balloons. I’ll never forget it.Off the Page (2014)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Watch Britain Isn’t Eating, the first of six microplays created by the Royal Court and the GuardianVicky Featherstone, Royal Court’s artistic director, in a news story (17 November, 2014): Playwrights and theatre-makers are continuously hungry for inspiration and challenge, and that is frequently found in the pages of our great newspapers. The journalistic instinct to speak truth to power, and uncover the previously covered, feeds directly into the Royal Court’s drive to say what was unsaid and bring us to a deeper understanding of the world we live in. The form of our microplays, where theatre meets film in an inescapably theatrical setting, feels like a new adventure.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The power of patriarchy … Hangmen. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianHangmen (2015)From Lyn Gardner’s blog (30 December 2015): The abolition of the death penalty is at the heart of Martin McDonagh’s play, and the title definitely doesn’t just refer to Albert Pierrepoint and Harry Allen, Britain’s last hangmen, who appear in McDonagh’s play in a fictionalised form. The hangmen are the men in cloth caps who use patriarchy to maintain their power. Anyone who thinks that the England of the 1960s was a kinder, safer, more gentle place only has to buy a ticket for the play to see that idea hung out to dry with a hefty dose of gallows humour … There are plenty of moments when McDonagh almost seems to be baiting the audience: how far can he push us? What can he make us laugh at? The racist, the homophobic, the misogynistic? The 60s and its attitudes still lurk under a veneer of 21st-century political correctness.