Among its many other achievements – giving music fans some good news following the death of Prince, driving traffic to poet Warsan Shire’s Wikipedia page, making Piers Morgan uncomfortable - Beyoncé’s spectacular new album Lemonade has managed to dethrone Kanye West as pop music’s most assured ringleader. It’s a masterclass in collaboration.Beyoncé: Formation tour review – defiant, victorious and glorious  The myth of the solitary genius means that creative collaging is a sorely underrated skill. Some people still maintain that the worth of a song is in inverse proportion to the number of credited writers. After the 2015 Grammy awards, where Kanye memorably insisted that Beck’s Album of the Year gong should have gone to Beyoncé, an obnoxious meme epitomised that argument: “Beck: wrote, produced, arranged all 13 songs on his last album. Plays 16 instruments … Beyonce: Plays zero instruments. Needed 16 songwriters, producers and composers on her last album. Yeah Kanye, I see you’re [sic] point about artistry.” It’s bogus logic of course. For one thing, self-reliant auteurs such as Prince and Grimes who write, perform and produce every note themselves, have always been anomalies in a sociable art form that requires many different skillsets. For another, it assumes that it takes much less talent to marshall a diverse range of contributors than it does to do it all yourself. In fact it takes exceptional taste, conviction and imagination to choose the right people, get the best out of them, and then weave their ideas into a cohesive whole. We don’t think less of a director because they need hundreds of people to help them make a movie; we admire them for keeping so many plates spinning.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Beyoncé kicks off Formation tour in Miami Vision is the thing. Most big pop albums are now constructed by way of writing camps, where old pros and hot newcomers are brought together to brainstorm song ideas – Motown’s hit factory on an industrial scale. Too often, the resulting albums are muddled or bloodless because the headline artist fails to provide a strong narrative. Beyoncé, however, followed her own path with Lemonade, enlisting a surprising range of artists rather than the usual hitmaking suspects, knowing that the integrity of the whole mattered more than banking a few surefire hits from Max Martin or Sia. To return to the film-making analogy, her instinct for casting and editing has never been sharper.Beyoncé's Lemonade is about much more than Jay Z and infidelity | Ijeoma Oluo  Working with other people while maintaining artistic control requires strength. One artist once told me that his control-freak tendencies sprang from insecurity and that he only began collaborating when he felt more confident about his work. It takes particular strength to do this as a woman in a world where artists as powerful as Madonna and Björk have seen their ideas misattributed to male co-producers, as if they were nothing more than singers. Beyoncé has always worked with lots of people but she has reached the point where her authorship is in no doubt and she can incorporate big names with the same ease as Kanye did on My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy, only more concisely: Lemonade is a streamlined 46 minutes long. She uses male voices as distinctive as Jack White, James Blake, Kendrick Lamar and the Weeknd because she knows that she won’t be outshone. As NPR’s Kiana Fitzgerald writes: “When she hears a sound she wants, she goes straight to the source … Beyoncé uses these men as tools. She digests their work and filters it through her art, creating a new and distinct product. She’s put her hand in every cookie jar of sound, making sure we hear her loud and clear – all genres, all listeners.” Lemonade’s voracious curiosity is reminiscent of David Bowie, another brilliant talent-spotter who needed help to stand alone. You couldn’t have Young Americans without Luther Vandross, Fame without Carlos Alomar, Let’s Dance without Nile Rodgers or Heroes without Brian Eno, and none of those records would sound the same without Tony Visconti. Bowie was the great combiner. His records flowed from his endless enthusiasm for music and musicians. If he heard someone he loved, he wanted to find a way to fold them into his own music, never doubting that he would still sound like David Bowie.Warsan Shire: the Somali-British poet quoted by Beyoncé in Lemonade Beyoncé has a similar confidence. In the days since Lemonade’s release, Father John Misty and Vampire Weekend’s Ezra Koenig, freed from their vow of silence, have spilled the beans on Beyoncé’s creative process: harvesting ideas, reworking them, bringing in new people to add to them, reworking them again, all the while being the only person who knew how the pieces would slot together. Both men worked on the song Hold Up, albeit without ever meeting. The hook and sample comes from an Andy Williams song, written by Mort Shuman and Doc Pomus, and was used by Koenig and producer Diplo when they created the basics of the track in 2014. Other parts were written by Father John Misty and the British-Nigerian singer MNEK. There are fragments of songs by the Yeah Yeah Yeahs and Soulja Boy. Yet the final result is, unarguably, a Beyoncé song. She’s the centripetal force that turns a potential hot mess into an exquisite pop song.FATHER JOHN MISTY (@fatherjohnmisty)Woke up this morning in an unmarked car with a band aid on my temple, a slight metallic taste in my mouth and a Beyonce writing creditApril 24, 2016Note the diversity of the artists who played a part in Hold Up. While the film of Lemonade frames the album as a very black, very female work of art (hence Piers Morgan’s conniptions), the record frequently blurs the artificial borders between what is commonly called black and white music. Take the musical history encoded in the Led Zeppelin-sample from Don’t Hurt Yourself. Led Zeppelin took from the blues, almost to the point of grand larceny, and When the Levee Breaks was originally written and recorded by Memphis Minnie in 1929. But the part that’s sampled is Zeppelin drummer John Bonham’s colossal beat, which became a classic hip-hop breakbeat. It’s deployed here by Jack White, a fan of Led Zeppelin, Memphis Minnie and hip-hop, who is credited alongside the African-American singer-songwriter Wynter Gordon. Beyoncé blazes through the track like 1960s Tina Turner, a black woman who often covered songs by white artists who were influenced by black artists. You could spend a long time unpicking the racial dynamic of all those elements, but the song transcends them all. Is it black music or white music? It’s Beyoncé music. Hybridisation is the lifeblood of popular music. It’s rare, however, to find an artist in such complete command of that process, merging several musical streams in ways that feel both natural and surprising, never once losing sight of the big picture. On Lemonade you can hear James Blake followed by Kendrick Lamar, or a line from Animal Collective not far from a John Lomax field recording of black prisoners in 1940s Mississippi, and all those different voices are united through Beyoncé’s own. Whoever wrote a particular melody or chose a particular sample, it’s her formidable presence alone that holds the album – and the film – together.