It’s nineteen-hundred-and-something: stick-on mutton chops at the ready. There’s been a murder in one of the Magdalene laundries, and the sole witness to the crime, Sister Winnie, says it was committed by the ghost of Lucy, a former inmate. So far, so intriguing. An ecclesiastical murder-mystery with a supernatural lilt – a who-nunnit, if you will – is exactly the sort of primetime programming I can heartily endorse.But wait: this is a new ITV comedy-crime series, after all. Mere minutes into Houdini & Doyle (Sunday, 10.15pm, ITV & ITV Encore) and the full, absurd range of light drama evidences itself. Here, the titular magician and author are murder-solving sleuths who burst into Scotland Yard brandishing front pages with the headline “KILLER GHOST ON THE LOOSE”, and help the Met solve cases – the period detail and premise of Sherlock with the subtlety of a CITV show.In reality, off the telly, Harry Houdini and Arthur Conan Doyle were actual mates, and argued like proverbial cats and dogs about whether the paranormal sciences were credible. On one side, the skeptical Houdini (Michael Weston), who knew that magic was the stuff of mere illusion; on the other, psychic-bothering writer Conan Doyle (Stephen Mangan), who believed that his pal was actually conjuring the dark forces in his escapism acts. Eventually, the two fell out forever. Theirs is one of history’s amazing friendships, with an unexplored complexity beyond the rapport of Shelley and Keats, or even Rylan and Katie.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest There are some who might argue that this should be treated deftly, as an insightful character study of two men in opposition: a canny illusionist and a man who found comfort in unknowable mysteries. They might even go as far as suggesting the Magdalene laundries, the church-run asylums that housed “fallen women” and industrialised shame, is a topic that calls for delicate consideration when it comes to dramatic exploitation. Not a bit of it for Houdini & Doyle, which decides the subject can only be enhanced by spooky nuns gliding down corridors clutching stolen babies, clairvoyants with roaming trans-European accents (“Ah yes, ze murders”. “Just one actually”. “... So fvar!”), high-speed ghosts, scandalised Victorians, terrible art direction and Stephen Mangan looking like a secondhand omnibus salesman as Conan Doyle, assigned to the case along with Houndini and Met constable Adelaide Stratton (Rebecca Liddiard).Where you sit on the shlock fence is a very personal thing. I can get behind it, or at least this particular example. Mangan has such an unnatural talent for playing boorish dickwads that it’s difficult to separate the man from these characters. The vibe he brings to all his roles – morose bloodhound – imparts a pleasing Scooby-Doo element to the production, with Houdini making a very convincing Scrappy. I defy anyone to watch Mangan emote “This can’t be all there is to life, death and existence, what-what” through a poly-viscose moustache and confused sense about where on the ham scale this belongs and not laugh for all the wrong reasons.Back at the laundry, the sisters are doing their best to bring up the horror genre’s rear. Sister Winnie won’t be budged on her ghost stance, and has taken to crying, “It was Lucy! Still wearing her grey smock”, as the shifty sister in charge glares from under her habit, wishing Sister Winnie was one of those vow-of-silence nuns. I have to hand it to H&D: these are definitely the creepiest nuns I’ve come across. In my experience, nuns are mostly to be found with tambourines and a packet of biscuits, and I rate at least one of these qualities fairly highly. I can understand why you’d be wary, though: if one was nicking your kid or staggering through a convent with a limp, thrashing a knife about, as when the killer is finally unmasked, the nun’s true bone-chilling potential would be there for all to see. But not to worry: H&D is less Haunted House and more Pat Sharp’s Fun House.