The New York-based cellist Maya Beiser grew up on a kibbutz in Galilee, Israel with her French mother and Argentinian father before moving to America to study at the Yale school of music. Beiser’s highly individual career reflects her eclectic background. Collaborators include Brian Eno, Philip Glass and Louis Andriessen. As part of Kings Place’s Cello Unwrapped series she will perform works written for her, including Steve Reich’s Cello Counterpoint.How did the Steve Reich piece come about?Steve is a long-time mentor and friend. I met him in the 1990s in New York. I am a founder member of the Bang on a Can collective and always wanted him to write a cello piece. It’s still the only one he has written. I premiered Cello Counterpoint in 2003 for the inaugural season of Zankel Hall, part of Carnegie Hall in New York. It was a great opportunity, a key moment in my career, and this 12-minute work has been part of my repertoire ever since. It has seven pre-recorded tracks which I play myself – so I’m my own backing track! There is a sense of call and response. It is a masterpiece. I consider myself very fortunate that Steve wrote it for me.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Maya Beiser performs Steve Reich’s Cello Counterpoint.You’ve been called a “rockstar cellist” and “cello goddess”. Presumably annoying to other cellists…?I find it quite entertaining. I imagine it’s because I’m not conforming as a classical performer to the habits people expect. Part of it, curiously, is about what I wear and how I express myself on stage. It’s true I do care about the visual aspect. I think of it as an art form – a total performance. I love fashion: Alexander Wang, Alexander McQueen, Iris van Herpen, Miu Miu. I find it fun to wear sculptural boots that defy gravity. It’s quite theatrical. It sometimes runs the risk of seeming like a gimmick. But fortunately my very serious attitude to music and the cello seems to balance the extravagant! I’d be practising Bach or Dvorák in the morning with the sound of the muezzin’s call to prayer sounding in the distance You’ve taken this to quite extreme extents?Actually, compared to the world of rock and popular culture this is quite tame. It’s only extreme if you consider the historical constraints placed on classical music performance. I love to collaborate with visual artists and expand the palette of what I bring to the audience. In 2012 I did a show at BAM – Brooklyn Academy of Music – called Elsewhere, which was what I have described as a “cello opera”. It was based on the eerie and surreal work of the Belgium writer Henri Michaux, painting a world where females try to survive on a dying planet. It sadly feels quiet relevant to the new world order we are facing today…The repertoire you play equally stretches beyond usual boundaries.It’s been described as “Bach to Pink Floyd” but actually it goes back long before, and of course includes a lot of new music. My latest album, TranceClassical, covers a pretty large range, from Hildegard of Bingen to Lou Reed arrangements, and my own cover of an Imogen Heap piece. This past year I premiered three new cello concertos – by Mark-Anthony Turnage, Philip Glass and Mohammed Fairouz. I love to reinterpret classic and art rock music (such as in my 2014 album Uncovered). And then of course there’s the tango my parents so loved.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The trailer for Maya Beiser’s Uncovered.Do you think your childhood on a kibbutz gave you this nonconformist fearlessness?I think I was born a nonconformist. But my upbringing helped shape my world view. It was a humanistic education that valued asking questions, finding one’s own point of view. It melded together my passion for art and music with my passion for apolitical social justice and peace. I started playing the cello at six years old and immediately it became all I wanted to do. No one ever had to tell me to practise. An agricultural collective that lived on the land – my upbringing included milking cows, herding sheep and working the fields – organic and local was not a fad. This is how we grew our food and how we sustained our life. Ideologically it was an atheist and socialist commune. We lived in harmony with our Arab neighbours. We were friends with the Bedouins. And I’d be practising Bach or Dvorák early in the morning with the sound of the muezzin’s call to prayer sounding in the distance. There was a sense that peace was achievable. However difficult and remote that now seems, I believe it still is.• Maya Beiser: New York Cello is at Kings Place, London, 10 February, 7.30pm