David Cameron has responded to the growing controversy over the government's proposed planning shakeup in a letter to the National Trust. In the letter, seen by the Daily Telegraph, the prime minister seeks to reassure the public that the changes will maintain the "balance" between environmental, social and economic considerations in planning decisions, and will protect the countryside.That the PM is now giving his personal attention to this issue is welcome; it is also wise, since the row has the potential to boil up into a bloody civil war, setting old-school rural Tories against the "pile 'em high and sell 'em cheap" economics of George Osborne and Eric Pickles. But it would be a tragedy if this debate were to be seen only as "blue on blue" action – because at its heart lies a question that David Cameron's letter does not yet begin to address. What kind of economy is good for the country?For more than two decades, under a succession of Tory and then Labour chancellors, it has been Treasury orthodoxy that laws to protect people, nature and places are bad for the economy. New Labour's Better Regulation Task Force was set up to hammer this message home across Whitehall (for better regulation, read less regulation). Its natural successor, the coalition's Red Tape Challenge – which offers crowd-sourced deregulation – has slotted into this well-worn groove, albeit with a modern twist.The underlying narrative – that regulation is costly to business, deregulation reduces costs, and therefore deregulation means more business and a more prosperous economy – is so reductionist as to be laughable. Look at how well it worked out for the banks. Yet it is still pursued as an article of faith by some of the most powerful in the country. It is this doctrine that has driven the coalition to take an axe to the roots of the planning system – despite the wealth of hard evidence that chaotic and laissez-faire planning systems, while bad for the environment and communities, are not good for the economy.George Monbiot is not alone in pointing out that European countries with poor planning systems have fared particularly badly in the recession, reaping the whirlwind of boom and bust economics. But the economic argument goes deeper than this. This spring, the government published its long-awaited natural environment white paper, which included a robust denunciation of previous administrations for failing to take into account the value of "natural capital" in decisions about the economy. They argued that protecting our natural assets – land, water, wildlife, clean air, climate – makes simple business sense and should be central to the thinking the cabinet has in its stewardship of the economy. Yet not one scintilla of this new thinking – which we are told is at the heart of Cameron's green project – can have penetrated the minds of Treasury officials, as they hijacked Greg Clarke's localism agenda in an increasingly desperate effort to deregulate something – anything – in the name of growth.That we are now reliant on the deconstruction of the town and country planning system for the rescue of our ailing economy, is bad enough. But what is worse, is that the very same officials promoting this fantasy are also actively sabotaging a raft of coalition policies that do offer some real prospect of economic recovery. Investment in green infrastructure and clean technologies would create jobs, and rebuild the country's manufacturing, engineering and technical skills-base. It would reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and buffer our economy against future fuel price volatility. Yet the active industrial policy and interventions needed to deliver this investment – including an ambitious "green deal" to improve home insulation, a green investment bank to provide access to capital, a reformed energy market, and tougher targets for reducing our medium term greenhouse gas emissions – have all been bitterly opposed by the both the Treasury and the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills. Apparently, the ministers and officials in charge or our economy are prepared to deliver growth at any cost – so long as it's not green.Of course, one of the things investors in the green economy need most, is an effective planning system; one which helps them locate their infrastructure in sensible places, helps avoid delays and uncertainties, guides negotiation with local people, and ensures that new development respects the landscapes and nature which people love. These conditions are also essential to provide the country with the homes it needs, at a cost that is affordable to people on low and middle incomes. Yet when the government is not lecturing us about growth, it is claiming that deregulating the planning system is a prerequisite to meeting our housing needs.Perhaps they are right in arguing that environmental groups should be more explicit in accepting that new homes are necessary as our population moves and grows – and are indeed a vital part of our evolving culture, not a blight to be resisted at all costs.But, at the same time, it is difficult to accept homilies on housing from a government presiding over a sharp rise in private rents, cuts to housing benefit, and a year-on-year increase in homelessness of 17% in the second quarter of 2011. It is also difficult to accept that the solution to our housing problems lies exclusively, or even primarily, in pandering to the demands of a few volume house builders, who, like the big six energy companies, too often hold the public good (affordable homes) ransom to private profit (high margins on expensive homes in environmentally damaging locations).Finding creative solutions to our housing needs is a major policy challenge, which will also involve some hard choices. What is certain, however, is that those choices will be made easier and fairer by a workable planning system, which discourages land-grabs and profiteering, reduces the risks of bitter recrimination and irrevocable environmental damage, and actively involves local people in decision-making.Greenpeace, along with other environmental groups, wants to work with the government to create this planning system. But so long as ministers in the key departments put their faith in bargain-basement growth delivered by a programme of mindless deregulation, this will be impossible. The alternative – a green economy, providing people with the homes, jobs and energy they need, and facilitated by workable and mature planning system – is out there. The question is, is there anyone left in the coalition with the courage to stand up to the Treasury and make it a reality?