It’s hard to move far through the shopping malls of Los Angeles without encountering the name Wolfgang Puck. The Austrian-born chef, 67, moved to California in 1975 and soon earned fame and celebrity endorsements for the à la minute cuisine he served at fine-dining joints such as Spago in Beverly Hills and the Hotel Bel-Air. His empire now encompasses a couple of dozen fine-dining restaurants, four-score Wolfgang Puck Express franchises and a line of tinned tortilla soups.Likewise, it’s hard to move far through the film business without at some point being proffered one of his signature smoked-salmon Oscars. Puck is the official caterer for the Academy Awards and it is his creations that will line 1,500 stomachs at the 89th Governors Ball, the official afterparty.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘He said, “Wolfgang, you know what I like.” So I brought him 20 different dishes’ … John Travolta. Photograph: Steve Granitz/WireImage“The Academy Awards is the premiere event in Los Angeles and worldwide,” he says, a rasp of Tyrol in his accent after all these years. “If we don’t do a great job, then people won’t come to our restaurants. If you have the chicken pot pie with black truffles, the pastry should be just as crispy as it is at the Hotel Bel-Air.” Get it right, and he creates a virtuous circle: “I remember when Michael Caine was here, he came the next day to Spago with his family and he said, ‘Please can we have the same dinner that we had at the Academy Awards?’ I said: ‘Wow! Was it that good?’ And he said: ‘Yeah, it was amazing.’”The 2017 menu was developed by Eric Klein, executive chef of Wolfgang Puck Catering – Puck mostly plays frontman these days, mingling with the guests. (He does have a star on the Hollywood walk of fame, you know.)Diners can celebrate or console themselves with such delicacies as Moroccan spiced Wagyu short rib with parmesan funnel cake and taro-root shrimp tacos. There will be a “turbo chef” on hand to prepare lava cakes with “melting spheres” of crème anglaise. There will be a sushi station where you can order a bespoke poke bowl. There will be caramel cappuccino Oscar lollipops. There will be lobster corn dogs served with jalapeno remoulade. “These are a big American thing, you know, corn dogs.”If you’re up for an award, you’d better like truffles – 15lb of them have been flown in from Burgundy. There will be gold-dusted truffled popcorn. There will be Puck’s famous takes on chicken pot pie (with shaved black truffles), and macaroni cheese (also with shaved black truffles) and parsnip agnolotti (with shaved black truffles). The macarons come in five flavours: strawberry, pistachio, coffee, chocolate and truffle. Mostly, however, he says the guests like familiarity. “A lot of them like comfort food. Perhaps they are nervous.” The are 30 gallons of cocktail sauce, 250lb of parmesan cheese, 6,000 mini-brioche buns and 30lb of edible gold dust In addition to all the guests, Puck feeds all the workers too: “All of the security, all of the waiters, all of the musicians … that’s 3,000 people!” The shopping required 50 tractor trailers. The are 30 gallons of cocktail sauce; 350lb of smoked salmon; 200lb of brussels sprouts, 250lb parmesan cheese; 3,600 eggs; 6,000 mini-brioche buns; five gallons of hot fudge; 20lb pickled ginger; 30lb edible gold dust; 7,000 miniature chocolate Oscars. There are 1,400 bottles of Piper-Heidsieck champagne and 2,200 bottles from Francis Ford Coppola’s winery. This will be served in and upon 13,000 glasses, 4,500 bamboo skewers, 4,800 ramekins and 6,000 cocktail forks.“Of course, we go to the farmer’s market and get everything fresh,” Puck says. “And we cook everything last-minute.” However, if you’re organised, it’s no biggie, he insists. “If you read about the banquets of the Ottomans and the Habsburgs, it’s really pretty simple. We don’t have to make food for 10,000 people in the countryside with no refrigeration.” Small mercies!      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We cook everything last-minute’ … Wolfgang Puck (left). Photograph: Mike Nelson/EPAPuck also likes to ensure his guests receive a personal touch: “I remember when Ang Lee won the best director, I made sure the whole table would receive Chinese dishes: Szechuan steak, crispy fried. He said it was the greatest thing that we cooked just for him. And the last time John Travolta was there, he said: ‘Wolfgang, you know what I like.’ And so I brought him 20 different dishes, potatoes, ribs, Dover sole, caviar …”Still, food fashions change. When he first arrived at the Hotel Bel-Air, Puck says, US cuisine was rather backwards. “It was a little bit like the cuisine in England.” A pair of guests once accused him of adding food colouring to a dish: they were so accustomed to overcooked tinned vegetables that they assumed foul play when they were served fresh. (He refused to serve them from that point on: “You have to have a few principles in life.”) Now that Californian dining is in its kale-kombucha-kimchi phase, does he worry his truffle-dusted luxuries are no longer quite so cutting-edge? “Ah but, you know, we have such great products here, you don’t need to do much to them. We are so lucky here, salad tastes great.”And his brand-name penetration among the millennial demographic is still strong. “I remember meeting Jennifer Lawrence at the entrance of the ballroom. She didn’t know who I was, and she had to ask her agent. ‘He’s Wolfgang Puck, don’t you know him?’ And she said: ‘Oh my God, I have his soup in my pantry!’ It was like a live commercial.”Who does Puck want to win? He was stirred by the slavery epic The Birth of a Nation, which is out of the running already. “It’s so funny because America tries to be the referee of democracy around the world and not so long ago we treated fellow human beings like animals.” Of the contenders: “I loved Moonlight. That was a wonderful movie.” La La Land? “I’m maybe not so romantic … ha ha.” Oscars interactive