“We were into being provocative and causing confusion,” says Christine Binnie of the Neo Naturists. “There was never any titillation in our being naked. It was more, ‘Here we are nude with our big bosoms and tummies. Take it or leave it.’”The Neo Naturists – Christine, her sister Jennifer and Wilma Johnson – were part of the nascent London nightclub scene in the early 1980s, a flamboyant fixture of its nocturnal demimonde. They would perform in clubs as well as galleries, or simply turn up at art openings in the nude save for a coating of body paint. “They just popped up everywhere, whether invited or not,” says film-maker John Maybury, who shared a Fitzrovia squat with Christine and Jennifer. “They were part of the underground scene and they certainly livened it up.” It was often like church – but more expressive and raw Performing at clubs such as Blitz, Heaven and the Fridge, as post-punk gave way to new romantic, the women’s take on performance art – mixing mime, song, ritual and audience provocation – prompted mixed reactions. “People are used to being challenged when they visit a gallery for an art performance,” says Wilma, “but we brought that kind of confrontation into the clubs and we often caused havoc, especially when there was male nudity. That really seemed to set things off.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pink Punk Yoga Performance, at the Fridge club, Brixton, 1982 – featuring Grayson Perry.The other two laugh in agreement and begin, simultaneously, to describe a small riot that took place at the Fridge when one of their frequent male collaborators – Grayson Perry, who was then Jennifer’s boyfriend – sauntered through the audience wearing only, says Christine, “an impressive bundle we had made for him and wrapped around his willy”.Now, 35 years after their inception, the Neo Naturists have reformed for a retrospective at Studio Voltaire in south London. It consists of grainy Super 8 films of their many performances – often shot by Perry or Maybury – as well as giant figurative paintings and vitrines full of notebooks, posters, flyers and press cuttings. The constant is the chaos they caused by removing their clothes and celebrating the female body in all its naked glory save for an elaborate patina of painted shapes and symbols. As we sit among the half-finished exhibits, the only evidence of new work is the imprints of their naked bodies on the gallery walls, though they say there will be a performance of some kind at the private view.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Neo Naturists today … (from left) Christine Binnie, Jennifer Binnie and Wilma Johnson at the opening of their retrospective at Studio Voltaire Photograph: Felix Clay for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A sign at the new show. Photograph: Felix Clay for the GuardianIf the exhibition is wilfully makeshift, it matches the seemingly improvised nature of their live actions – which, it turns out, were anything but. “We always had a plan,” says Wilma, “and we tried to stick to it whatever the reaction.” The performance I witnessed at the Fridge in 1982, when they appeared before Pogue Mahone – soon to metamorphose into the Pogues – prompted utter bemusement. It culminated with one of them walking though the audience, wearing a crab in place of the traditional fig leaf, and attempting to place prawns in the mouths of punters in a manner that recalled a priest presenting a communion wafer.“It was often like church,” says Christine, “but more expressive and raw. We actually had an order of service, though it may not have seemed like it, and we gave out food and drink instead of communion. We didn’t tell people what to think – it was more about provoking them into making connections.” One Halloween they 'gave birth to apples in bags of red blood' and instigated some apple-bobbing. All hell broke loose At another infamous performance, which took place at Halloween in the International Students House, they dressed in bulging tartan aprons and, as Christine puts it, “gave birth to apples in bags of red blood”. When they invited the audience to come on stage for some traditional apple-bobbing, all hell broke loose. “It was food colouring in water, but they thought it was real blood,” says Christine. “Things got out of hand very quickly. They smashed up all our records and, afterwards, the guy who organised it got sacked. But that was the exception. Mostly, people were just confused by us, which was the point really.”Less eventful performances included a week-long residency at the B2 Gallery in 1982, later described by Grayson Perry as “a hippie tribal version of Big Brother: people could come and just stare and hang out with 15 nude people. Each day had a theme: fashion day, art day, Macbeth day or punk day. I particularly remember the pain of trying to wash off body paint that was welded to my body hair. It had been mixed with Scott’s porage oats.” Grayson Perry described one week-long residency as a hippie tribal version of Big Brother; people would come and stare       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Flashing in the British Museum, London, 1982 – Christine Binnie body-painted and photographed by Wilma Johnson. Photograph: Courtesy the Neo Naturists ArchiveUnlike Perry and Peter Doig, who photographed many of their performances, the Neo Naturists never made it big in the soon-to-be-lucrative London art scene. “We weren’t careerist in any way,” says Jennifer, “though neither was anyone else back then. And we didn’t really fit. We confused the art world as well as our audiences. There was always this question as to what we were exactly – cabaret or performance art?” Her sister takes over: “Plus performance artists were thin and pale and deeply serious. We weren’t.” All three crack up laughing.The early-1980s bohemian milieu that the Neo Naturists belonged to – a loose congregation of artists, musicians and style pioneers who lived on the dole and in squats – has attained legendary pop-culture status since. Their friends and sometime collaborators included Leigh Bowery, Boy George and Marilyn as well as artists like Perry, Doig and Cerith Wynn Evans, not to mention dancer Michael Clark, with whom they made an opera.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Boy George, right, takes part dressed as Britannia in the Neo Naturists’ event Paper Dress at the Embassy Club, London, 1980. Photograph: Courtesy the Neo Naturists Archive We didn't really fit. We confused the art world as well as our audiences – were we cabaret or performance art? “Everyone was always doing something or making something,” says Christine. “The first question you’d be asked when you met someone was, ‘What are you working on?’ It was imperative to be creative and the Neo Naturists seemed a way to do that and have also have serious fun.”Where did the name come from? “Oh, that was me,” says Christine. “It seemed that all art movements were called neo-something-or-other and it also had something to do with health and fitness and I was also taking the piss out of neo-Nazis somehow.” All three stress that there was also a vein of seriousness running though their performances. “There’s an important aspect that often gets overlooked,” says Christine. “When I had my body painted by Wilma or Jennifer, I became a painting. It wasn’t just a smeared body, as a lot of people seem to think.”They seem to be having a lot of fun revisiting their wild naked years. In the interim, Jennifer has continued to paint and Christine to make ceramics, while Wilma had a productively turbulent midlife crisis that saw her move to a village in France and become a surfer. In 2014, she published a memoir: Surf Mama: One Woman’s Search for Love, Happiness and the Perfect Wave.“I’m 60 now,” says Christine, “and Wilma and Jennifer are in their 50s. We’re different people, but there’s something perhaps even more interesting to explore – about women and ageing in a culture that is very ageist.” The others nod. Will they be taking off their clothes and painting their bodies? “We’ve decided on Sellotape dresses for the opening,” says Christine, “but there’s a club night at the ICA where we will definitely do a walk-around in the audience. Who knows what might happen?”The Neo Naturists is at Studio Voltaire, London, until 21 August.