‘It’s clearly doing something right’ - Canary Wharf Jazz FestivalThe Canary Wharf Jazz Festival is a free two day jazz music event held each August in Canada Square Park in London’s Docklands. The performers, many of whom have received music industry awards, are all UK based. The festival feels local with the audience travelling in each day. I went with my partner and 14-year-old daughter. Julia Biel was the performer we enjoyed seeing most this year. The environment is very family friendly. The organisers even hand out picnic mats to people who haven’t brought their own. One year when it started to rain, they offered everyone plastic ponchos. This year was the Canary Wharf Jazz Festival’s tenth anniversary and it was very well attended, so it’s clearly doing something right. I’ll certainly be back next year. Alex Flynn      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Supremely talented jazz vocalist Julia Biel and band smile and play on as strong winds force open the back curtains and blow across the stage at the Canary Wharf Jazz Festival, London 20 August 2016. Photograph: AlexFlynn/GuardianWitness‘The festival has stolen my heart’ - Sunflowerfest 2016, Northern IrelandI lived in London for 25 years but moved to Northern Ireland five years ago. I’ve been going to Sunflowerfest every summer since. The festival is very well organised with different sections for family camping, singles camping, rowdy camping, showers utilising compost for energy and various activities for kids.The festival focuses mainly on local musicians, but a few fairly big name bands always headline the event. There’s always a great atmosphere, with the bands enjoying themselves around the festival when they’re not performing. My favourite performers were the band The Twisted Sisters - an irreverent bunch who sing songs about Guinness, potatoes and big knickers! Apart from the headliners they attract the biggest crowd. I also really enjoy a singer called Amanda St John who has a big band soul and jazz sound. The harpist Ursula Burns was great too. I used to go to the festivals in England such as Reading every summer. I loved them but Sunflowerfest, although being a lot smaller and a completely different kettle of fish, has stolen my heart and will always be my favourite festival experience. Debbie Deboo      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sunflowerfest 2016 - ‘it will always be my favourite summer festival experience’ Photograph: Debbie Deboo‘The whole crew is like a giant family’ - Eisteddfod, WalesI’m from a village just a few miles away from Llangollen in north-east Wales, where the Eisteddfod festival is held every year. I haven’t missed a festival since I was born, so I’ve been to 20 of them. 21 If you count when Mum was five months pregnant with me. I was working there this year. I’m part of the sound crew on the main stage, which I’ve continued to do every year since I did it for Year 10 work experience. The festival is generally well organised, although it had a few hiccups as with any event of its scale. People come for the wide variety of competitions during the daytime. Others come for the evening concerts that are the main attractions. This year the biggest names were Collabro, Bryn Terfel and Jools Holland. Others just come onto the field for the stalls, performances on the outside stages or the general buzz of all the international competitors. The best experience is definitely working with the rest of the sound and backstage crew during the week, and doing so on such a unique festival just a few miles from my home in a gorgeous setting. The whole crew is like a giant family. In addition meeting people from so many different countries and creating friendships over the week is brilliant. I’ll be doing it again without a doubt! Eluned Ashwood      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Llangollen International Musical Eisteddfod Photograph: Eluned Ashwood/GuardianWitness‘It’s a perfect way to discover more of my country’s diverse culture’ - Sinulog, PhilippinesI’m originally from Cebu, Philippines. Sinulog is a yearly event in the city, where dancers from the different provinces in the Philippines perform. That’s the main attraction. Every contingent of dancers will have their different custom themes and usually surprise and stun the audience in equal measure with their performances. This year I went with a colleague. There’s always a plethora of people there, more or less three million, and I wish more would be done about crowd control. Sinulog is a cultural fiesta and is a perfect way for me and others to witness and discover more of my country’s diverse culture. I’m a history buff and anything that is cultural for me is great. It’s a busy street parade and you have to do a lot of walking. Commuting is very hard at that time. Each year more and more contingents are joining, not only in the Visayas region but also in Mindanao – a region that’s very rich in culture and where tribal traditions are still evident. I’ll definitely go again. Jennin Bartolata      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dancers at Sinulog - an annual cultural and religious festival held in Cebu, Philippines Photograph: Jennin Bartolata‘You do need to enjoy a party’ - The Berlin CarnivalThis was my first time in Berlin, but I joined my sister who has been many times. A group of 18 of us travelled. We met more Londoners once we were there. The festival was very well organised. It all started with a J’Ouvert party, where festival goers cover each other in paint and power. This was swiftly followed by a fire fete, boat party, roof top party, beach party, glow party, the actual carnival day and a closing party. There was no trouble, no problems, and plenty of rum. You do need to enjoy a party though! Ricardo Drue, Patrice Roberts and Lyrical were headlining the event, but I think most people were really looking forward to the selection of DJs who had flown in from around the world. These included Private Ryan from Trinidad and Tobago, American DJ Stephen and DJ Tate and Triple M from the UK. Flying home on a Tuesday with a hangover was tough but worth it. Katrina Frazer      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Berlin Carnival Beach Party 2016 Photograph: Katrina Frazer/GuardianWitness‘It’s a a wonderful piece of popular Andalusian culture’ - Sherry Festival, SpainThis summer I was at the Sherry Festival in the Spanish town of Sanlucar. We were staying in Cadiz and had hoped that there may be a festival in the region somewhere. We’d had such a great time a couple of years before at a festival in Cordoba. The festival was very well organised with a cabaret and music tent, various sherry producers with outlets and a fairground. It’s a wonderful piece of popular Andalusian culture with a lovely, warm atmosphere. Being possibly the only British people there, we were made very welcome. Don Blandford      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Revellers at the Feria de la Manzanila, Sanlucar in Spain Photograph: Don Blandford/GuardianWitness  Enjoying the beach at Hideout Festival Photograph: Chloe Gunning/Wanderlust Chloe‘The combination of the beach and guaranteed sunshine made for a great experience’ - Hideout Festival, CroatiaI run a travel blog so don’t tend to be at home much, but this year was my first time at Hideout Festival in Croatia. Thousands of Brits head to the sleepy island of Pag in Croatia every summer to see the best DJs on the planet. As the focus is on dance music, it felt like lots of people had come to enjoy the vibe and the parties, rather than to see one specific act. Then again, Craig David was a highlight for me and plenty of others! The festival was really well organised. The combination of the beach and guaranteed sunshine made for a great experience. I thought it was a shame it was nearly all Brits attending. I’d hoped it might feel a little more international. Rather than going to this one again, I’d prefer to check out some other festivals around Croatia in the future. There are plenty of new ones to discover every year.My favourite ever summer festival experience was seeing Stevie Wonder at British Summer Time in Hyde Park a few years ago. I remember the sun was just setting as he played “You Are The Sunshine Of My Life”. That was pretty perfect! Chloe Gunning      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Thousands of Brits head to the sleepy island of Pag in Croatia every summer to see the best DJs on the planet at Hideout Festival Photograph: wanderlustchloe/GuardianWitness‘The organisers picked bands that fitted the space well’ - Bristol Summer SeriesI went to the Bristol Summer Series for the first time this summer, and it was a very rewarding and exciting experience. With such a variety of music on offer it attracted different crowds, and I was able to enjoy each night as a kind of stand alone mini festival. Sigur Ros were incredible. The arching shape of the venue amphitheatre just seemed to lock the sound in with us, under the stars, by the waters edge. And the photo I took of Catfish and the Bottlemen was how the music felt to me. They really did get great feedback from the crowd. The venue space was limited, but it was really well organised. It was obvious the organisers had picked bands that would fit the space well. Colin Moody      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   This space is normally just a concrete no where space and then they set up this festival - Bristol Summer Series - and wow. Moment Catfish and the Bottlemen came on. Photograph: Colin Moody/GuardianWitness‘Everything ran like clockwork’ - Benicassim Festival, Spain I went to the Benicassim Festival with a group of friends and camped in the general area. Many English festivals have horrendous problems with stage times overrunning, but this one was very well organised. Everything ran like clockwork and you could guarantee everything would be on time.As a keen photographer it was the opportunity to photograph big name acts that appealed to me. Muse were a highlight, however the likes of Chemical Brother and Massive Attack provided some pretty spectacular live shows.The weather itself was both the best and the worst thing. The hot weather was great. You could spend most of the day at the beach before the music started. The temperatures dropped a little in the evening which was perfect, and waking up every morning to a cold shower to get rid the heat, with the backdrop of the mountain range in the background, was very special. Lewis Evans      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Muse at this year’s Benicassim Festival Photograph: Lewis Evans/GuardianWitness‘It was an occasion of sheer joy’ - Halifax Pride Festival, CanadaI’m originally from Palestine and had my first experience of the Halifax Pride Festival in Nova Scotia this year. I was there as a face painter volunteer with the Canadian Immigration Museum. There were lots of people wearing different costumes, dancing inventively and enjoying a whole range of different performances. It was an occasion of sheer joy. Helmi Yousif      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dancing in Halifax NS Pride 2016 Photograph: Helmi Yousif/GuardianWitness‘It is hands down the highlight of my summer’ - Summer Well Festival, RomaniaThis summer was the sixth edition of Romania’s Summer Well Festival and I didn’t miss a thing of it. I live in Bucharest and this is the most impressive festival I’ve ever been to. I always go with my friends. The venue is amazing - there’s a forest and a lake full of swans. The line-up impresses me every year. Bands like Suede, The xx, Placebo, The National, Foals, Kasabian, The 1975, John Newman, The Vaccines, Hurts, The Chemical Brothers, Years & Years and The Neighbourhood have all played great sets over the years. There were some amazing art installations as well. It is hands down the highlight of my summer. Claudia Cramaroc      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Romania’s Summer Well Festival - ‘The most beautiful festival venue in the world with a lake, swans and a forest.’ Photograph: Claudia Cramaroc/GuardianWitness‘He taught me about Friedrich Nietzsche and I taught him about blue whales’ - Coachella Festival, CaliforniaIn 2014 I was invited to attend Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival with a group of friends, who had known each other their whole lives but who barely knew me at all. I was sitting underneath a gigantic crimson statue of a robot when I met him. We talked effortlessly for a few minutes and learned that we lived a thousand miles apart. We were both college students, his focus in philosophy and mine in education. He taught me about Friedrich Nietzsche and I taught him about blue whales. He asked if he’d see me again tomorrow, to which I replied: “You can try.”We met again at Coachella last April under a cluster of flowers that spelled out “BESAME MUCHO.” On the last day we ran after a gigantic beach ball that bounced across three crowds until it lay deflated and crumpled on the ground. We draped it around us like a cape and called ourselves King and Queen. I got a second job scooping ice cream this summer so that I can afford to go visit him. I leave in a couple of weeks. We’ll take turns doing that for a while until we can really be together. It seems illogical that two people who have only met twice in their lives can plan a future together, but as Nietzsche most eloquently puts it; “There is always some madness in love. But there is also always some reason in madness.” Rosie Burnham