In the late 1990s, I interviewed the director Harmony Korine over the phone. Back then a conversation with Korine could go several ways at once, sometimes in mid-sentence. And yet suddenly he talked with calm and clarity about the future of digital video. Digital cameras were still irrelevant to movies then: unloved things sold in Dixons that produced scuzzy images of wedding receptions and children’s parties. But soon, Korine said, that was going to change. In fact, digital cameras were going to change cinema. “Everyone who would never have got to make a film before, now they will. And they’ll make them a different way.”Recently, I dug out the cassette the interview was recorded on. It had been coming back to me a lot. I’ve been putting together a series of videos about film in the 21st century – and that, by its nature, is also the story of digital. Which is a source of regret for many film lovers. For them, digital is the cold soulless hand that snuffed out the arcane magic of celluloid. Actual physical film, the fabled 35mm, is still mourned. A celebratory season, Check the Gate, begins at London’s Prince Charles cinema on 9 July, among its programmers a couple of personal friends and others whose taste I hugely admire. Keanu Reeves: the future of cinema It’s a lovely thought, the dust motes dancing in the beam of the projector. There are some great films in the season too. I recommend it. I also think it gets in the way of what should be the real celebration.Because if 21st-century film has an ongoing subplot, it’s the struggle against its own demise. The distractions of social media; BitTorrents bleeding away the money; TV on demand so perfectly suited to the shape of modern life; Netflix making movies into just another batch of neat, grey content patties: all of them are killers. But the reason film hasn’t yet succumbed has mostly been the rise of digital – the energy and vision of everyone who never got to make a film before.When debating where to start the series I was planning, the best answer felt like David Lynch’s Mulholland Drive. It was released in 2001, and you could see its doomed romance as a full stop on the movie century just ended. It is a luxe scramble of genres, obsessed with Hollywood, the cinematic past, old films and old film stars. Naturally, it was shot on 35mm. And then, for Lynch, that was that. By his next movie, Inland Empire, he had gone over to digital, and was vocal about the frustrations of working with film.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Laura Dern in David Lynch’s Inland Empire. Photograph: Magnolia Pictures/Sportsphoto Ltd/AllstarHe wasn’t the only one who saw digital cameras as a godsend – physically nimble; free from the compulsory “Cut!” at 11 minutes when the roll of film runs out. You could feel the relief in the rush and swoop of early digital landmarks such as 28 Days Later and the eerily majestic Russian Ark.Then there is the money. The problem with 35mm was always the price tag – just the film itself was gougingly expensive. Movie-making was a club with lunatic entry fees. Like all such clubs, some meritocracy was long overdue. Digital unlocked the gate financially and then, in turn, creatively.Take a movie like Tarnation, made in 2003 for the oddly precise sum of $218 (like most numbers in film, there was small print, but the gist remains intact). Its creator, Jonathan Caouette, wasn’t a director in any conventional sense. He was a smart kid from a baroquely troubled family, and rather than write a script to tell its story, he imported old snapshots and shards of home movies on to a brightly coloured desktop iMac, tweaked them, arranged them, and turned life into art in a way that would previously have been impossible.Interview: Jonathan Caouette In the world of big-league filmmaking, ones and zeros conjured all manner of spectacle: think of the computer soul of Gravity, returning the blockbuster to a state of childlike wonder. But in the wider world, the changes were even more profound. It hardly felt like a coincidence that last year’s Tangerine – the beautifully, casually radical story of a pair of trans women in wildside LA – was shot on three iPhones. It wasn’t just that they gave the film its non-stop momentum, or that this was the kind of movie that would have been murderously tough to get financed in the past. It was that it felt like a part of the wider explosion of culture, made with a device a billion people know the feel of, a contribution from an artform not yet ready for the museum, still rudely vital.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   This Is Not a Film by Jafar Panahi (2011), which was shot digitally then smuggled out of Iran on a USB stick hidden in a cake.The same goes for the feature documentary makers and video essayists who have bloomed in the digital era; for the World Film Collective training children in townships and refugee camps to make films on smartphones; and for the great director Jafar Panahi, banned from film-making since 2010 by the Iranian government yet keeping on making films. The first of Panahi’s works in the wake of the diktat, This Is Not a Film, was smuggled out of Iran on a USB memory stick hidden in a cake. The most recent, Taxi Tehran, was illicitly filmed on a dashboard cam as Panahi drove through the capital. Digital has been his co-conspirator.All of this keeps movies breathing. And while Christopher Nolan and Quentin Tarantino have lamented the advent of digital, it’s worth asking if a modernist genius like Stanley Kubrick would have embraced it had he not died in its early years.Maybe it’s my age. I grew up when making films was a game of wealth, and just getting to see old masterpieces was left to the lottery of late night TV, so to me digital feels like a blessing. I love ritual as much as the next snob, and the ritual of 35mm is gorgeous. But it’s only a ritual. It’s not the movie. And while the past was fun in many ways, generally I prefer the sequel.• Danny Leigh’s weekly six-part BBC Arts video series Film Now begins today.