People were still wondering what David Bowie had been trying to tell them David Bowie’s death last week set the amateur detectives sleuthing. What had he been trying to tell the world with his final album, and with the videos for Lazarus and Blackstar? Had he set up a Tumblr to add to the mystery? Did it all feed into something greater? His last gift to the world appeared to have been a puzzle so complex that it might take years to reveal the answers – and even then we’ll likely never get those answers confirmed. One thing we can be sure of, though – because it was made plain by the designer of his album sleeves, Jonathan Barnbrook – is that the cover of Blackstar was a deliberate reflection of Bowie’s awareness of his own mortality.Bowie and Elvis? (And Springsteen, Waits, Young …)One of the week’s stranger news stories was buried deep in an article in a local newspaper in California. The Orange County Register carried an interview with the country singer Dwight Yoakam ahead of a gig. It being post-Bowie, the paper naturally asked about him. It turned out Yoakam had met Bowie in 1997, and they had discussed Elvis. And, said Yoakam, Bowie said he had been called by the King a few months before his death in 1977, with a request to produce new Presley music. Bowie. In 1977. Producing Elvis. Imagine the catering – peppers, milk, peanut butter, hamburgers … Meanwhile, a studio outtake emerged from 1985 in which Bowie, having a bit of fun, was heard impersonating some of his contemporaries: Bruce Springsteen, Neil Young, Tom Waits, Iggy Pop, Lou Reed and others. The clip had been recorded by Mark Saunders, who worked on the Absolute Beginners soundtrack. It’s well worth a few minutes of your time (the Lou Reed and Tom Waits, especially, are spot on).Last bit of Bowie for now (we promise). With added KanyeAt the start of this week, it was reported that Kanye West was planning a tribute album of David Bowie covers. The story was later denied, but not before a certain section of the world decided that this was an outrage. A petition was drawn up to demand it be stopped (if you laid all the petitions demanding Kanye be prevented doing something end to end, they would stretch from here to Jupiter. Fact). Social media ignited with people who do not listen to rap explaining why this was a desecration. So we got Joe Muggs to write about why Kanye is actually the nearest thing to Bowie we have these days. Then we stepped well back.Yasiin Bey, formerly known as Mos Def, cares not for your borders (and he’s retired)Remember when Yasiin Bey was picked up by South African customs at Cape Town the other day? Turns out he’d been trying to leave the country on a “world passport”, a document recognised by only six countries (and that’s the claim made by the organisation that issues it). That didn’t stop Bey sending a long and rambling message to Kanye West – which West duly posted on his website – complaining that his treatment was politically motivated. Oh, and announcing his retirement. To be honest, we’re only inclined to believe that one after five years of public silence (a rule we apply to all musical retirements).A writer was finally allowed to ask R Kelly about the sex-crime allegations against himFor years, people sent to interview R Kelly have been told: DON’T ASK ABOUT THE SEX. And they have duly complied (to our shame, us included). Finally, Chris Heath – writing for GQ – was told Kelly would “speak about his whole life without restrictions”. It made for an odd encounter. Kelly spoke about being sexually abused as a child, and described it as “a generational curse, so to speak, going down through the family”. It seemed as if he was preparing for the big confession, but then he backed away. He couldn’t speak about his long-rumoured marriage to Aaliyah, because “when there’s two parties involved in any situation, both parties have to be respected”. He couldn’t even say whether it was him in the infamous video showing a man engaging in sexual acts with a young woman, believed to have been 14 at the time: “Because of my lawyers, to this day I cannot have those kind of conversations. Being advised by my lawyers in this.” It’s a strange, disturbing and extraordinary interview.Glenn Frey of the Eagles diedGlenn Frey was 67 when he died – from complications from rheumatoid arthritis, acute ulcerative colitis and pneumonia – and he’d been one of the very biggest rock stars of all time. The first Eagles greatest hits record remains the second-biggest selling album of all time, and the band’s reunion tours in recent years raked in the money from their boomer audience. Yet the band were never liked by critics. It took Frey’s death to make those critics wonder if maybe the audiences had been right. Meanwhile, Everett True wondered why the same people who had been furious at those scoffing at their mourning of Bowie were on his social media timelines mocking Frey’s death. The deaths of Bowie and Frey lent a sombre note, too, to the opening couple of dates of Bruce Springsteen’s US tour – on night one he covered Rebel Rebel in tribute to Bowie, on night two he played Take It Easy, which Frey co-wrote with Jackson Browne.Abba reunited!Don’t get too excited, though. The foursome have no new music and no gigs to play. Their third appearance together since their split in 1982 – the first, in 1986, was for a TV show; the second, in 2008, was at the Mamma Mia! movie’s Swedish premiere – was for the launch of a Mamma Mia!-themed Greek-style taverna in Stockholm. Take a chance on tea. The dinner takes it all. Sorry.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest That Fat White Family album sounds ickyThe consensus around albums is usually that they are good or bad. Not with Songs for Our Mothers, the second one from Fat White Family, which was met with disgust from many reviewers. “What did their mums to do deserve this?” wondered Will Hodgkinson in the Times. Lee Arizuno of the Quietus, while able to find the lolz in songs about Shipman and Goebbels, felt compelled to shout “enough of your shit!” at a song trying to mine humour from Ike Turner beating up Tina. Our own Alexis Petridis reckoned: “In a world in which someone appears to find almost everything, no matter how innocuous, ‘problematic’, here’s something so wilfully, relentlessly, self-evidently problematic as to boggle even the most libertarian mind. You don’t have to be the kind of person who spends their days forensically examining the lyrics of pop records in order to find something problematic to be horrified by the disgusting line in Satisified, where frontman Lias Saoudi compares a woman fellating him to a starving Auschwitz inmate reduced to ‘sucking the marrow out of a bone’.”It’s not easy when your underground band goes overgroundPaul Lester tracked down some of the musicians who’d seen themselves as alternative – toiling away willingly in obscurity – when they stumbled across a song that took them up the charts (and not always even a song they liked). Peel favourites the Piranhas and US confuseniks Devo were happy enough with the success, but not everyone was. The Flying Lizards starting rowing about money and being forced to appear on TV alongside Captain Beaky. Stephen “Babybird” Jones got sick of people shouting “You’re gorgeous!” at him. And one member of Pigbag walked out of the band because he wasn’t going to be allowed to wear his donkey jacket on Top of the Pops.Let’s hope for a miracle …Finally, a thought for Colin Vearncombe of Black, a maker of lovely music for 30 years, some of which has filtered into the mainstream, but most of which hasn’t. On 10 January he was hospitalised after a road traffic accident in Ireland. We now learn he has “only a slim chance of pulling through”. Our thoughts are with him. 