Under £15      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Even the famous five had to build their teamwork skills.Five go on a strategy away day – from the new series, Enid Blyton for Grown Ups, the Famous Five have a new mystery to solve – one involving marketing jargon and team-building games. At only £6.99, it’s the perfect stocking filler.Cocktails for eating – Smith & Sinclair originally ran fun dating nights, with a candy bar serving edible cocktails. The grown-up sweets took off – choose between the gin, whisky, vodka, rum or mixed sweet selections from £9.99, per box of six. The fragrance queen – Jo Malone has released her long-awaited autobiography this year, documenting her 21 years in retail from her beginnings as a teenager with no qualifications, struggling with dyslexia. For the tech entrepreneur – this recycled circuit board notebook also features 100% recycled paper and is available for £12.99.  ChattyFeet socksFoot selfies mandatory – the colourful ChattyFeet socks feature characters such as Prof Brian Sox, Albert Einstoe and Yoko Mono. Priced from £7.50.Future vision – one of the big advances in technology this year has been the prominence of virtual reality (VR), and it’s only set to get bigger in 2017. Get your entrepreneur up to speed with this Aukey headset. At £14.99 it’s a reasonably priced entry point into the often expensive world of VR.Under £50The cyclist’s handy gadget – make flitting between meetings disaster-free with this lightweight multitool for frequent cyclers. Featuring allen keys, screwdrivers, wrenches and a chain tool, it can be easily slipped in a saddle bag or basket. You can buy it for £22.86 from Wiggle. On a roll – keep your ideas flowing with the Self Journal (£26), with a daily action plan, three-month goals and inspirational quotes to keep your entrepreneur on track in 2017.  Autoseal thermal mugTake a sip – this stainless steel thermal mug (£29.99) cleverly automatically seals between sips so there’s no spills. Using vacuum technology, it’s guaranteed to keep hot drinks warm for five hours – perfect for those rushing out the door with their coffee in the mornings.The care package – a box with lots of goodies to remind your small business owner to take some time for herself, including chocolate brownies, green tea, a glossy magazine and scarf. It’s £27.50 from Don’t Buy Her Flowers, and there’s a package for men, featuring socks, gourmet nuts, craft beer and more from £30.Under £100Time to relax – many entrepreneurs find it difficult to switch off, even at Christmas. Remind them to take time out, with a massage voucher from Urban Massage, available for £65 with therapists in London, Manchester, Birmingham, Glasgow and Edinburgh.Laser show – this laser keyboard works on any flat surface and also operates as a portable phone charger, mouse and speaker. At £99.99, it’s perfect for the gadget lover in your household. Luxury nightwear – one for the women entrepreneurs who enjoy winding down after a long day at work. Yawn is a small business that sells pyjamas made from 100% cotton sateen and designed to be super comfy, starting at £89 a pair.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Make their coffee table more colourful.A doorstep treat – whether film buff, foodie or typography obsessive, this independent magazine subscription from Stack magazines should pique any entrepreneur’s interest. They’ll receive a different title each month – it could spark a new business or product idea. For a 12-issue subscription you’ll pay £70.Health kick – juicing was a big trend in 2016, but a quick nutrients fix is always beneficial for busy business owners. The Nutribullet is a favourite among health food fans. It pulverises fruit, veg and seeds in seconds, but can also be used for soups, desserts and ice creams. The juicers start from £69.99. Under £200Time flies – Shore Projects’ range of customisable watches start from £115 and are waterproof to 100 metres. The straps are inter-changeable – with prices starting from £20 – making it easy to change the colour scheme or look.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sony noise-cancelling headphonesMusic is my life – these noise-cancelling headphones come in five colours, are wireless and have 20-hours of battery life. They could be the antidote to a buzzing co-working space or stressful commute. They’re available from £169.99 from Amazon.Reach for the stars – your entrepreneur has already reached the dizzy heights of the business world, but this trial flying lesson with PTT Aviation will see them literally take to the skies. Prices start from £125, with flights available from Leeds Bradford, Newcastle or Durham Tees Valley airports.Robot helper – science fiction comes into the home, or office, with this voice-controlled hands-free speaker that can also Google on demand. If your entrepreneur likes to be up-to-date with their gadgets, the Amazon Echo will be on their wishlist (check it’s not already on their coffee table) and will set you back £149.99.Blow the budgetProject this – for the gadget-savvy entrepreneur, this 2-inch mobile projector has 90 minutes of battery life, is compatible with HDMI devices and comes with a tripod to keep the picture steady. Use it at home, in the office, or anywhere with a wall that can be turned into a 120-inch screen. Available from £269.95.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The RIF6 Cube mobile project has a myriad of uses.Smell the coffee – the De’Longhi bean to cup coffee machine includes a bean grinder (creating a fresher taste for your caffeine fiend), a milk frother with adjustable steam, and shuts off automatically. Choose from an espresso, cappuccino, latte or americano. Yours for £279.99. Travel ready – entrepreneurs on the move know how difficult it is to keep workwear crease free. This jacket from Rohan, priced at £235, is made from a crease-resistant blend of natural wool, polyester and elastane. It’s also machine washable and there are matching trousers available for £115. Flexi working – standing desks could be seen as a health investment, since research has shown the harmful effects of sitting for eight hours a day. Ikea has a few options from £445 to get a desk-bound entrepreneur moving around that bit more. Sign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.