I was skipping school and eating my feelings with a tub of ice cream. Ellen came on TV and was nearly in tears. She talked about the murder of Larry Fobes King, a 15-year-old gay, gender-queer boy from California who asked his schoolmate crush Brandon McInerney to be his Valentine. Brandon brought a gun to school and shot Larry in their school computer lab on February 12, 2008. Two days later, on Valentine’s Day, Larry was taken off life-support and died.What should I do if I think I might be transgender? Ellen managed to hold in her tears and go on with the show, but I sat there and cried into my cookie dough. I felt like I was Larry, but was not nearly as courageous. Larry was at school in spite of the negativity he faced there, while I was buckling under the pressure and hiding at home.I had always been a sensitive child (bound to hysteria if I ran out of Dippity-Do hair gel or missed an episode of Sailor Moon), and so my habitual skipping of school began early on when in the sixth grade my classmates kept using a girl name when referring to me. All morning long they called me Britney. Actually, they spelled it Brittany in the mean notes (#fanletters) they passed around the class, but I survived by convincing myself I was Britney Spears. That day marks the first time I ever ditched school. I asked to go to the toilet and never came back. I wasn’t quite the black sheep of my class so much as the sequinned one. I became an anti-monarchist despite the appeal in glamour because I was so isolated in my rigid elementary school, aptly named after Queen Victoria. I didn’t know I was lucky. Life forced to the outskirts offers a big picture view. Back then I thought it was my fault. I didn’t meet the standard of my peers, or the one set by the Canadian public schooling system. I wanted to fit in, to connect, but I was also rebellious. By not submitting to the established oppression of school life and transcending its daily ritualistic assault on my creativity and individuality, I evaded the mass cesspool of sameness.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The monarchy eventually won me back with Prince Harry’s beard, and I was especially amused by the irony when my debut young adult novel When Everything Feels like the Movies (WEFLTM) received a Governor General’s Award for Children’s Literature. I wouldn’t have the inspiration to write had I been successfully homogenized with my classmates by the same handlers who were now celebrating my very uniqueness.If they’d had their way, I’d be dead. Like Larry, who dealt with the oppression of his own school differently from me, lost deep in a tub of ice cream and daytime TV. Larry flaunted his individuality for what it is — superiority. (That’s why it scares them.).My narrator Jude in WEFLTM is called Judy by the more primitive of his classmates. But he’d never be run out of school by those creeps. When he skips out on class, it’s because he’s in the mood for whip-its or a shoplifting spree. Jude wouldn’t give them the satisfaction of winning. I wish I’d been as confident. Jude isn’t ashamed of his gender fluidity or his sexuality, he celebrates it — to the extent that some critics have called WEFLTM porn, and a petition circulated for the Canada Council for the Arts to revoke its GG over the graphic content. The controversy incited an international conversation on sex in YA literature, and the boundaries of the genre. It almost felt like when I was back in school. The same conformed kids who reacted in such extreme ways to my very existence figure just as prominently in adult society. I really shouldn’t have been surprised by their reaction to Jude. I know all too well how the basic sheep graze.While the sequinned go on shining.When Everything Feels Like the Movies is available to buy from the Guardian bookshop. If you can be in London on Monday 15 Feb 2016, you can see Raziel and conversation with Juno Dawson. More details here.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 