FILMThe Big ShortThe guy who made Anchorman tackling the 2008 crash? This fact-based financial comedy is the best of both worlds, following the oddballs who bet against the banks. It’s told with snappy energy and caustic humour, plus some ingenious explanations of complex financial instruments. But it’s morally grounded, too. Steve RoseAll this week’s new film releasesTHEATREThe Master Builder(The Old Vic, London, Saturday to 19 March)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Ralph Fiennes talks about the production.While Ralph Fiennes has revealed some unexpected comedy chops in the past – on stage with God Of Carnage, and on screen in The Grand Budapest Hotel – it is for serious classical work that he is best known. He has tackled mighty roles in Shaw, Chekhov, Sophocles and Shakespeare (playing Coriolanus and directing a film version). He also has a bit of previous with Ibsen – a West End production of Brand in 2003 – and here tackles what many consider the Norwegian playwright’s finest work, The Master Builder, as Solness, the respected architect who builds high but is brought low by past indiscretions. Directed by Matthew Warchus, this is a new adaptation by David Hare. Mark CookAll this week’s best theatreON DEMAND Chelsea Does...(Netflix, from Saturday)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Chelsea Does...Comedian Chelsea Handler has a busy 2016 planned. Later in the year she debuts a late night-style talkshow on Netflix (a curious platform for the genre). Before that comes a loose documentary series that sees Handler tackle a hefty topic each episode, from racism to technology. Obviously this isn’t The Cook Report; Handler’s angle is irreverent rather than searching, and her guests include Khloé Kardashian and American Pie’s Jason Biggs, but there are also some more serious figures featured, including the Reverend Al Sharpton and former president of Israel Shimon Peres. Gwilym MumfordEXHIBITIONSElectronic Superhighway (2016-1966)(Whitechapel Gallery, London, Friday to 15 May)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A still from Nam June Paik’s Good Morning, Mr Orwell. Photograph: Nam June Paik EstateWhile South Korean video artist Nam June Paik may not have been able to predict the amount of art that would be made about the internet, he did to some extent predict the thing itself, coining the phrase “electronic superhighway” in 1974. Today, art about online culture is ubiquitous, the majority mundane to the point of tedium; indeed this survey contains some of the worst offenders, Jon Rafman and Petra Cortright among them. Where it should succeed, however, is showcasing the precursors and early radicals of net art. Recordings of Paik’s seminal Good Morning, Mr Orwell (pictured), in which the artist programmed a series of broadcasts via satellite link in 1984, are included, as is Olia Lialina’s My Boyfriend Came Back From The War (1996), an early web browser programmed by Lialina to recall a romance. Oliver BascianoAll this week’s best exhibitions TALKSPrintout: New Women’s Magazines(The Book Club, London, Tuesday)  Bertie Brandes and Char Roberts will talk about their magazine Mushpit.From Kieran Yates’s ode to immigration British Values, to Born N Bread, produced by a black female London collective, and queer/feminist powerhouse Polyester, zines continue to provide a platform for minority voices in the age of the listicle. Whether made by groups or an individual, there’s something eternally exciting about these small-scale print projects brimming with sideways takes. Coinciding with feminism’s mainstream makeover, there’s been an increase in alternative British zines aimed at women over the past few years, many of them repurposing the conventions of familiar titles to new ends. As such, this edition of Printout – a night organised by magazine subscription service Stack and website magCulture – brings together the voices behind three of its favourite independent titles. Sadhbh O’Sullivan, Kitty Drake and Maddie Dunnigan will be representing their subversive glossy Ladybeard, alongside Bertie Brandes and Char Roberts of politically minded fashion satire Mushpit, and Megan Conery and Molly Taylor, founders of literary zine Hotdog. Hannah J DaviesAll this week’s best talksMUSICJohn Grant(Glasgow, Belfast, Cork)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest John Grant’s Disappointing, from current album Grey Tickles, Black Pressure.He made music in his youth, but John Grant was clearly saving his best stuff for mid-life. He has arrived there with some of the aches and pains, and plenty of the bruised worldview that his time of life might entail. The consolation is that he now has all of the musical chops, and all of the self-knowledge that he might need to effectively process his train of thought. It’s sweary, it’s confessional, and it’s clearly working out extremely well for him. Musically, Grant has been profligate: moving from lush orchestrations (his debut) to obscene electropop (Pale Green Ghosts), to arrive where he is now, the melancholic medical journal that is current album Grey Tickles, Black Pressure. John RobinsonAll this week’s best live music COMEDYKieran Hodgson(London, Southend-on-Sea)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kieran Hodgson: innately awkward, but able to mine pathos.This one-man character comedy show about a young boy’s deep and abiding love of Lance Armstrong was one of the hottest tickets at last summer’s Edinburgh fringe. It might sound an unpromising topic but, night after night, Kieran Hodgson packed the punters into a small sweaty venue above a pub, with standing room only even for the industry movers and shakers. It’s easy to understand the enthusiasm, because Lance could well mark the arrival of a serious talent. Hodgson clearly takes a strong influence from Steve Coogan: his innate awkwardness, odd obsessions and constant misreadings of the world around him mean he often seems like Alan Partridge trapped in the body of a much younger man. But, while he shares Coogan’s ear for precise language and deft characterisation, he’s also got the ability to mine sensitivity and pathos, something that has taken the older man a lot of effort to acquire. His next move will be worth watching out for, because it seems as if Hodgson has got all the tools necessary to aim for greatness. James KettleAll this week’s best live comedyTVOne Click Away season(BBC3, from Tuesday, 9pm)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest One Click Away season.As BBC3 prepares to go online-only, here’s a season looking at the influence, for good or ill, of its new home. The One Click Away strand begins darkly, with a docudrama on the death of teen Breck Bednar, murdered after being groomed online. Coming up later in the season are docs on gamers, A-list vloggers, and a quest to unmask internet trolls. GMDANCEBolshoi Ballet: The Taming Of The Shrew(Cinemas, Sunday)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Taming Of The Shrew will be broadcast in cinemas nationwide this week from Russia.Jean-Christophe Maillot’s production of the Shakespeare comedy – being broadcast from Russia to cinemas across the UK – is his first work for the Bolshoi, and shows the company in a very different light from its mainstream repertory. This work focuses on the maverick energy of its main characters, the wilfully unconventional Katharina and her ambitious suitor Petruchio. Presented within a minimalist set, animated by Dominique Drillot’s inventive lighting design, Maillot’s sharp contemporary choreography plays to the expressive skills of its dancers. Judith MackrellAll this week’s best danceCLUBSIdris Elba(Switch, Southampton, Saturday)Southampton raves aren’t often visited by Hollywood celebrities, but Stringer Bell, John Luther, or whatever you know DJ Driis as, is serious about this. His music passion predated his high-profile TV and film roles, from hanging out in New York City in the 1990s to his current preoccupation with the catchy, shuffling sound of grime and UK house basslines. Elba was quoted by London’s Evening Standard in 2013 as saying that he and his crew used to encourage ladies to remove their footwear at parties. “Why? Because I like feet.” Gwyn Thomas de ChroustchoffAll this week’s best clubs