A eulogy from a former president; thousands of people lining the streets of Louisville; international leaders flying in for the funeral; Will Smith and Lennox Lewis among the pallbearers. The scale of Muhammad Ali’s funeral on Friday makes it easy to forget he wasn’t always universally adored. The long arc of his celebrity spans more than 50 years and includes periods when he was a pariah in white, mainstream America.Ali embraced his celebrity but it seemed to compel him towards, rather than away from, saying things that challenged the social norms of the time. He used his platform to champion civil rights even where it earned him notoriety, and his refusal of the draft in 1967 cost him his world title and earned a three-year boxing ban. He also associated with controversial black supremacist movements and ideas that he later renounced.The reams of obituary that have been written about Ali tell us much about the world of the 1960s and 1970s; not because he simply reflected the society he practised sport in, but because, like other great civil rights activists of the 20th century – Gandhi, Martin Luther King and Nelson Mandela – he catalysed social change.Today, celebrity is much more easily achieved. Twelve years ago, The X Factor celebrity phenomenon sprang on to the scene: manufactured pop stars shooting straight to number one and superstardom. Today, people serious about achieving celebrity status don’t even need Simon Cowell. We live in an Instagram age where people can not only achieve fame, but make a living, by posting selfies, perhaps the ultimate symbol of a society in which chasing celebrity has become an end in itself.But what is easily won is also much more fleeting. Celebrities come and go as reality TV shows push crop after crop of new celebrities on us. Who could say what happened to the cricketer who captured the nation’s heart and headlines when he won Strictly Come Dancing in 2006? I can’t even remember his name.Many musings on modern celebrity focus on the loosening relationship between talent and fame. It’s hard to imagine Kim Kardashian making it big had she been born in the 50s. The ease with which fame is achieved today undoubtedly makes it harder for real talent to surface.But Ali is a reminder that through the nature of modern celebrity, we have lost more than that. Celebrity has become more of a passive reflection of the societies in which we live, rather than a platform from which to drive social change.This is partly because we live in an age where it has become increasingly and immediately consequential for people to challenge established wisdoms and social norms.Claire Fox, in her book I Find that Offensive, points to the growth of no-platforming in university student unions and the public shaming of people on social media. Platforms such as Twitter make it easier than ever to whip up opinion against people with even a low public profile who express views regarded as unpalatable. Tim Hunt, the Nobel laureate who made an ill-advised joke that could certainly be taken as sexist, but in the context of a lifetime of promoting women in science, was forced to resign from his post at UCL within days when his comments were publicised on Twitter. He was subjected to the sort of horrible online hounding I wouldn’t wish on anyone. In a social media age, celebrity can turn to notoriety in the blink of an eye.This of course has a chilling impact on the extent to which those in the public eye express opinions: celebrities are under greater pressure than ever to watch what they say, particularly given the increasingly fleeting nature of their celebrity status. A Twitterstorm about some ill-judged remarks could be career-ending: why would anyone stick their neck out to say what they really think?This matters. Celebrity gives people a platform. When those platforms aren’t used in ways they might have been in the past, societies are given less opportunity to reflect, to be challenged and to consider difficult questions.We still see a number of celebrities campaigning for worthy causes, of course: Jamie Oliver for healthy school meals; Emma Watson for gender equality; Angelina Jolie on sexual violence against women. I don’t want to belittle these campaigns: no doubt these are celebrities campaigning for the right reasons, using their status to achieve change.But while they do indeed speak truth unto power, it’s action of a particular kind – lobbying governments and international organisations – rather than delivering hard truths back to the whole of society. They are campaigns that heighten our adoration of celebrities rather than challenge us; bellwethers rather than catalysts. It is hard to imagine an athlete today being banned from the sport for saying the unthinkable.There are celebrities such as Donald Trump and Katie Hopkins who have made a name for themselves saying things many would regard as beyond the pale. But they tend to come from populist, reactionary standpoints, expressing views that many of us find hateful.In many ways, they are a product of the problem. The more that politicians in the mainstream find it difficult to broach sensitive issues, such as the sexual assault of women in Cologne by migrant men, for fear of causing offence, the more oxygen it gives to people with populist, xenophobic views.I suspect we will be hard pressed to find someone of the stature of Muhammad Ali in the celebrity obituaries of 30 years’ time. But there will undoubtedly be plenty of people famous for launching new clothing and perfume lines.Like Ali’s obituaries, they’ll reveal much about the times in which celebrities achieved their fame. But unlike Ali, I’m certain it will be more because they mirror the societies in which they lived rather than because they acted as a catalyst for change.