It’s 4:30am, I can’t sleep and so I creep downstairs to bury my face in our cat, as I know his responding purrs will nurture some inner calm. But he’d rather go outside to explore the dawn. Following behind him into the garden, cup of tea in hand, I’m struck how peaceful the atmosphere is. Dewy grass, soft light and birdsong provide me with a virtual shot in the arm. My mind is immediately diverted via a sensory bombardment that would override any whirring brain. I feel energised yet tranquil – it’s just what I need.Observing that gardening can benefit us mentally is nothing new. Thrive is a UK charity which aims to bring about positive changes in people’s lives using therapeutic horticulture. Communications manager Alyson Chorley explains: “Our research shows that gardening can help you feel happier, healthier and more confident. It reduces stress and anxiety – we see this first-hand every day within our courses and workshops. It holds people’s attention and fascination – even GPs are now buying into the fact that gardening brings therapeutic benefits.” So what exactly is it that horticulture taps into?Wildlife      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Garden wildlife offers a privileged glimpse into an unseen world, writes Lucy Chamberlain. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoKnowing that wildlife has chosen your garden to set up home in makes you feel honoured. Discovering an occupied bird box, a meandering hedgehog, froglets in long grass, or a basking slow worm gives you a privileged glimpse into an unseen world. Around 12 years ago, when I lived in Winchester, the garden pond would be home to dozens of mating frogs each February – a huge squirming, writhing tangle of them. I won’t be forgetting that sight in a hurry. Back to the present day, I accidentally uncovered a juvenile adder while weeding the vegetable garden on Tuesday – something that will equally stay in my mind for years.Chance plantingsGardeners strive endlessly to partner plants together, then nature throws up something brilliant while we’re preoccupied with the effort. The bottom of our Essex garden has become a dumping ground while we complete home renovations, so any plans to develop it have been put on hold. How impressed was I then, to discover a huge swathe of foxgloves this spring which has only just finished flowering. Laying on a blanket underneath them, watching bumblebees work the flowers was just heavenly.Growing foodBeing the daughter of smallholders, my first love is producing fruit, veg and herbs for our kitchen. Such a gratifying experience, the grower is rewarded with the knowledge that they are providing for themselves. Additionally, a key sense – taste – is stimulated, which really reaches into your core. Peas fresh from the pod, strawberries warmed by the sun, herbs plucked from pots – the enjoyment this brings to me is fundamental.ScentTaking of additional senses, smell can’t be overlooked. I’ve always understood its importance – cut grass, thyme lawns, lavender-edged pathways – but a visit to one particular garden drove this message home in spectacular style. Mottisfont Abbey in Hampshire is home to the national collection of old-fashioned roses. Visiting in June one year to compile a magazine feature, I was hit by how the scent was so heavy in the air. There was no need to move your nose towards a bloom – the perfume completely enveloped you as you stood on the pathways. How could you not enjoy that experience?Like mindsA few weekends ago we went along to Hadleigh Hidden Gardens day in Suffolk, where 28 private gardens opened their gates to the public. If you had a map in your hand on that Saturday, you were part of the experience, but more than that, you were part of an extended family. Inhibitions lost, you were reassured that any conversations opened up with fellow map holders would result in enthusiastic horticultural exchanges – despite the weather’s best efforts, that warmth outshone any rain that fell.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sounds good: even the crunch of gravel underfoot can lift the spirits. Even better if you’re walking around Beth Chatto’s gravel garden in Essex. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoSoundBirdsong, trickling water, rustling bamboos, even the crunch of gravel paths underfoot – calming, uplifting, evoking, you name it, positive emotions are stirred into life. The regular pop of vetch pods as you lie in a sunny meadow, disturbed only by singing grasshoppers and skylarks, and the occasional rush of an otherwise gentle breeze: that’s one of nature’s best lullabies.SolitudeI’ve already mentioned how enjoyable an early-morning walk in your garden can be. Another experience which taps into the same emotions is when I walk around East Donyland Hall, where I’m head gardener, knowing that I’m the only one in the garden. Equally, wandering through a floral marquee when all the exhibitors have left for the evening is a bit of a treat. Walking around large National Trust or similar estates is equally joyful when you can’t see anyone else in sight. You feel so fortunate to be the one person there. At that moment, the garden’s beauty is all for you, and you only.CreativityPlanning what to grow that season and then seeing your designs come to a successful fruition is confidence-building and so, so satisfying. As the days and weeks go past, you see young plants swell, foliage knit together, flowers emerge and dimensions take shape – and it’s all down to you taking time out to realise your vision. Pat yourself on the back but, more importantly, take every opportunity to drink in what you have created.TactilityEver had the urge to kick off your shoes and walk around a lawn bare-footed? I did, last summer, at Beth Chatto’s garden and the feel of the cooling grass against my skin on that hot day was divine. It tops walking on a sandy beach for me (there were no stones or jellyfish to dodge for a start). I’ve never done it but would bet that walking on a chamomile or thyme lawn would be equally delicious. Combing your fingers through soft tussocks of Mexican feather grass (Stipa tenuissima) or similar soft grasses also hits the mark, as does a quick caress of Himalayan birch or Tibetan cherry bark when nobody’s watching.PropagatingI don’t think I’m ever going to tire of seeing trays of home-sown seedlings. Sowing is methodical and therapeutic in itself, and satisfaction can be (in the horticultural world) pretty quick. Last week I sowed radish and rocket on Monday – they’d emerged by Wednesday. Donyland is holding its annual open day this weekend (July 3, 2-5pm) and I’ve been busy taking cuttings since autumn for the plant sales. Watching the dianthus and pelargoniums take root, seeing fresh sprigs of ginger mint arise from root sections, dividing up geraniums, cannas and herbs – when I walk into the nursery greenhouse I feel like my body drinks in the abundance of it all. I can’t imagine doing anything else.• What makes you feel good in the garden? Share your thoughts below, or tweet @guardiangardens.