Celebrity First Dates 9pm, Channel 4A fame-enhanced version of the matchmaking show: four ordinary punters who thought they were on regular First Dates are confronted with a celeb instead. That could crash the format but it doesn’t, because Towie’s Jess Wright, EastEnder Richard Blackwood and Paralympian Will Bayley are all unknown to their dates. The casting coup is Esther Rantzen, whose erudite honesty provides the most moving moments. Jack Seale Sings Stevie Wonder 9pm, BBC4One of the most covered artists of all time, the truly life-affirming songs of the man born Stevland Hardaway Judkins lend themselves to a multitude of genres (and genders), as revealed in this gleeful traverse through 50 years of Auntie’s archives. Acts putting their own stamp on Stevie include Cilla Black, Dionne Warwick and Jools Holland’s Rhythm & Blues Orchestra, with its take on Master Blaster (Jammin’). Signed, sealed, delivered. Ali Catterall Artsnight – Maria Balshaw 11pm, BBC2Maria Balshaw is director of the Whitworth Gallery in Manchester. The Whitworth is the current holder of the Museum of the Year award so Balshaw is well qualified to assess the credentials of this year’s contenders. Ahead of the announcement of the 2016 prize, she’ll be running the rule over the Arnolfini in Bristol, Bethlem Museum of the Mind in London, Jupiter Artland in West Lothian, London’s V&A and the York Art Gallery. Phil HarrisonT in the Park 2016 10.35pm, BBC4Edith Bowman introduces coverage of the first night of what superstitious festivalgoers like to call the Scottish Festival. With an increasing reputation for landing the biggest names in the business and an increasing bent towards dance music, Strathallan Castle will play host to the Stone Roses, Red Hot Chili Peppers, local hero Calvin Harris, LCD Soundsystem, Jamie XX and Diplo among others. There is an absence, though, of female artists, with Jess Glynne the most notable. David Stubbs Survival In The Skies 8pm, DiscoveryWe get terrifically blase about humanity’s conquest of the skies: we travel across continents at 1,000 km/h in relative comfort at reasonable cost, and do little but complain about it. This series may reawaken some gratitude and wonder by focusing on the innovations that have enabled us to function when airborne, and telling the subsequent tales when it goes wrong – the ejector seat, the space suit, the jet engine and the parachute. Andrew MuellerPowers 9pm, SpikeThe Marvel comic-book series continues with an episode in which everyone is double-crossing everyone else. It’s an outbreak of duplicity that revolves around a plan for Walker and Royalle to team up on a mission to kill supervillain Wolfe, lest he uses the Sway to suck the powers out of everyone and become a super-super-supervillain. All rather silly and unnecessarily convoluted, but Eddie Izzard’s insouciant delivery of his baddie quips provokes a smile. Jonathan WrightFilmSpectre (Sam Mendes, 2015) Friday, 6am, 8pm, Sky Cinema PremiereAfter the emotional pyrotechnics of Skyfall, there’s a sense of business as usual in the latest Bond adventure, but it’s still a killer of a thriller. Following on from the previous film’s carnage, it sees Daniel Craig’s buffed agent chasing, fighting and loving his way around the world, starting with a stunning opening scene in Mexico City. For 007, the mission is more personal than usual. His target? The shadowy mastermind of terror organisation Spectre and “the author of all your pain”. Paul HowlettOf Gods and Men (Xavier Beauvois, 2010) Friday, 12.35am, BBC2This moving meditation on faith, tolerance and humanity is based on real events in Algeria, 1995. It’s set at a French Cistercian monastery where the monks’ work for the community brings them into dangerous contact with an Islamist guerrilla group: refusing military protection, they must decide whether to continue their mission or leave. Theirs is an austere order, dedicated to good work and quiet contemplation, now forced to consider imminent martyrdom. Lambert Wilson is the quietly charismatic Christian and the veteran Michael Lonsdale is brother Luc. PHArbitrage (Nicholas Jarecki, 2012) 12.10am, Channel 4Robert Miller is a crooked, silver-haired hedge fund manager suddenly on the verge of ruin when he and his art dealer mistress (Laetitia Casta) are involved in a fatal car crash: it’s a role tailor-made for Richard Gere, and the Armani suit fits immaculately. There’s nothing too original, but it’s a sleek and lustrous affair, with fine support from Susan Sarandon as the wronged wife and Tim Roth as the LA detective investigating Miller. PHSomewhere(Sofia Coppola, 2010) 1.40am, Film4Sofia Coppola touched on the emptiness of Hollywood movie lives in Lost In Translation, and here it takes centre stage, with Stephen Dorff’s jaded, borderline-depressed star Johnny Marco holed up in the Chateau Marmont with a broken wrist, and all the women, drugs and drink he can handle. The film really takes off with the arrival of his 11-year-old daughter Cleo (Elle Fanning). PHToday’s sportT20 International Cricket: England v Pakistan. A women’s game from Chelmsford. 1pm, Sky Sports 2Tennis: Wimbledon 2016. Weather permitting, we’ve reached the men’s semi-finals. 1.45pm, BBC1Cycling: Tour De France. Coverage of stage seven of this year’s race, which sees the riders travel 162.5km from L’Isle-Jourdain to Lac de Payolle. 2pm, ITV4