Gardeners are being urged to do more to help hedgehogs this summer after new figures showed that fewer people than ever are seeing the once-familiar species. Results from the from the RSPB’s citizen science survey showed that only 25% of people see hedgehogs in their garden at least once a month, around three percentage points less than last year and than in 2014. The number of people who have never seen a hedgehog in their garden rose again to 24%, up around three percentage points since 2014. A similar survey by BBC Gardeners’ World magazine in February found the number of people who saw hedgehogs in their gardens last year had fallen by 10%.The rapidly declining UK hedgehog population is estimated to number less than 1 million, down from more than 30 million in the 1950s. One-third of this loss is thought to have taken in the past 10 years. A 2015 report found rural populations had declined by at least a half and urban populations by up to a third since 2000. Their long-term but poorly understood decline is attributed to the loss and fragmentation of their habitat in Britain’s towns and countryside, death on roads, and intensive farmland that provides few good foraging or nesting sites. Rising numbers of badgers, their natural predator, have also been cited as a possible cause. Hedgehog population in dramatic decline Jill Nelson, CEO of the People’s Trust for Endangered Species, said: “One reason for the hedgehog decline is lack of roaming space to find food and mates, as typically hedgehogs need to travel up to a mile a night, so interconnected continuous habitat is crucial ... Unless we are prepared to make an effort as individuals, data suggests that hedgehogs face an uncertain future.” A petition to raise the level of legal protection by Conservative MP Oliver Colvile and backed by Britain’s hedgehog charities has now gathered nearly 38,000 signatures.Gardeners can help reverse the decline in hedgehogs by avoiding the use of pesticides and slug pellets, ensuring the animals have easy access with gaps in fencing and leaving out dishes of water during long, dry spells. Hedgehog charities also recommend creating homes with piles of logs and leaving part of the garden wild. Gardeners should check for hedgehogs before strimming, mowing or lighting bonfires and ensure ponds are built with covers, sloping slipways or half-submerged rocks so animals don’t drown.Fay Vass, chief executive of the British Hedgehog Preservation Society, said: “We’ve known for sometime that hedgehogs are in decline and urgently need our help which is why we have teamed up with People’s Trust for Endangered Species to deliver the Hedgehog Street project. At www.hedgehogstreet.org you can join over 38,000 others and become a ‘hedgehog champion’ for your street or area. Small actions carried out by many people make a huge difference.”Other results from the RSPB survey showed that grey squirrels were the most common garden visitor for the third year running, with 76% of participants seeing one in their garden at least once a month, while only 3% of people saw the endangered red squirrel on a monthly basis. For the first time in the survey, the nearly 300,000 participants were asked to count foxes and stoats. Foxes were the second most-seen visitor with 40% of people seeing one in their rural garden at least once a month. This figure increased to 50% in suburban gardens and further to 57% in urban gardens, while the elusive stoat was seen by only 2% of participants on a monthly basis. Fewer people reported seeing other wildlife including badgers, slow worms and grass snakes on at least a monthly basis this year, compared to 2015. Garden wildlifeGardens cover an estimated 10m acres of the UK, and the RSPB is urging people to help each space make a difference this summer by getting involved in its campaign, Giving Nature a Home. It wants gardeners to do at least one thing for wildlife, from making small ponds and “bug hotels” to planting pollen-rich plants in window boxes for insects. Daniel Hayhow, RSPB conservation scientist, said: “With the right care and attention your garden could become a home to all kinds of different species, and you could have a front-row seats to some amazing wildlife shows. The UK is home to some fascinating garden wildlife from bugs to butterflies, hedgehogs to house sparrows – our outdoor spaces provide these species with the vital homes they need to survive.“It’s interesting to see a rise in the number of people recording sightings of some of our struggling garden wildlife – and although this isn’t suggesting population changes – it could mean that people are becoming much more aware of the species that can find a home in their back garden.” To help people create their own wildlife-friendly garden, the RSPB has launched a new online tool to help them design a plan for nature. If you find a sick or injured hedgehog call the British Hedgehog Preservation Society (BHPS) on 01584 890 801. 