ABC’s video for Viva Love, directed by Julien Temple.Why does the return of ABC matter? Why would anyone care about a group from the past issuing a sequel to an album from 1982?Summon up a mental image of the golden era of early-80s pop, and it will almost certainly be the same vision of new romantics and Blitz kids reinforced by decades of TV clip shows. The established look is extravagant wigs, rouge for the boys and the girls, tea-towels for keffiyehs, gender bending, Bowie’s Ashes To Ashes video. The sound is chilly electronics and world funk, Spandau Ballet, Culture Club and Visage: London’s idea of the future.But outside the capital there was another, more human 80s whose music has perhaps aged better. You can hear it in Soft Cell’s kitchen-sink electro and their dirty-raincoat rewrites of northern soul. It’s in the Human League’s bravura self-reinvention as a perfect electronic pop group that spoke to every girl and boy. And, above all, it’s in the romantic scope, the epic songwriting ambition and the orchestral grandeur of ABC. Inspired by Bacharach and David, powered by Sinatra and Chic, and centred on debonair frontman Martin Fry – a tall, blond hybrid of Billy Fury and Bryan Ferry in a showman’s gold lamé suit – ABC were the lush, luxurious, Technicolor dream band that arrived just in time for the Thatcher revolution to truly take hold. The widescreen music that they captured on their 1982 album The Lexicon of Love appeared to stand outside the stream of pop history, seemingly indebted as much to John Barry or Nelson Riddle’s more sombre work as to Marvin Gaye or Bowie. Where the London bands offered elitism, ABC dealt in genuine glamour. And as ABC’s hometown of Sheffield joined the rest of the north under the Thatcherite cosh, the band’s impeccably crafted top 40 fantasias showed that there was nothing escapist about escapism. Living well, and showing it, was the best revenge.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Martin Fry in 1982. Photograph: F. Wright/Rex FeaturesHow we made: ABC's Martin Fry and Anne Dudley on The Lexicon of Love They had come up from inauspicious beginnings. Originally an austere synth band named Vice/Versa, they recalibrated themselves for urgent British funk with the recruitment of fiercely literate fanzine writer Fry in 1978, first on keyboards and later as singer. The newly named ABC achieved a moderate debut hit in 1981 with Tears Are Not Enough, but their ambition marked them out from the surrounding pack of DIY funk acts. Securing the services of producer Trevor Horn on the back of his work with candyfloss duo Dollar – an unconventional move for a band with post-punk roots – ABC embarked on a string of exquisitely crafted hits that raised pop’s game for a whole ensuing decade.In February 1982 Poison Arrow established Fry as the doomed-in-love homme fatale of a four-minute romantic tragedy built for radio. Then The Look of Love celebrated the flipside of romance with an exultant anthem of hope and a comic blazers-and-boaters video. The Lexicon of Love was the punchline, a unsurpassed suite of meditations on the ups and downs of the heart. Here, Anne Dudley’s strings lifted Fry’s wry wordplay into a pop stratosphere. Producing Lexicon led Horn to assemble Art of Noise and the team that would make hits with Frankie Goes to Hollywood. ABC, meanwhile, were creating records that are still played somewhere on British radio every day.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Martin Fry in 2012. Photograph: Caitlin Mogridge/Redferns via Getty ImagesThey would decline to attempt the impossible task of repeating Lexicon. Their next record, 1983’s Beauty Stab, was a deliberately raw and guitar-centred record, either 10 years too early for grunge or five years too late for punk. In 1985, reduced to a duo of Fry and multi-instrumentalist Mark White, they recreated themselves as a thoroughly artificial Hanna-Barbera version of a pop group for the flawed, fascinating album How To Be a Zillionaire!. A slight return to the world of Lexicon gave them the hit When Smokey Sings in 1987. Now, 34 years since the release of Lexicon, Fry is delivering a sequel to his great opening gambit. The Lexicon of Love II examines affairs of the heart from the perspective of an older, maybe wiser, but no less romantic individual. Horn is not on board but Dudley is, which could be preferable given that her rich, considered arrangements were as essential to the original Lexicon as Fry’s own voice. If the record is not the game-changer that the original was, the same values of style and scale are in play. There is the declamatory opening single Viva Love, there are callbacks to Poison Arrow (“I care enough to know I could never leave you”) and, naturally, there is an orchestral reprise at the end.Appropriately the cover of Lexicon II shows Fry, ABC’s frontman and now sole member, watching two young models from the wings of a theatre. They represent Fry’s younger self and the sort of unattainable, irresistible woman that he used to pursue in song. If you’re going to revisit one of the few British albums truly deserving of the term classic, this is the way to do it.