“For those who like that sort of thing, that is the sort of thing they like,” Maggie Smith trilled 47 years ago in The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie. It’s become Smith’s defining line, encapsulating her expert hauteur, yes, but also perfectly describing the cosy teatime fare she almost exclusively makes these days. For those who like that sort of thing, The Lady in the Van (Sony, 12) is most pleasing.A droll adaptation of Alan Bennett’s memoir, the most challenging thing it does is get its leading lady out of her habitual pearls and into the grime-caked rags of Mary Shepherd, the well-bred tramp who camped out on Bennett’s driveway for the better part of 15 years. She’s good value too: drily irascible, as is her wont, but eventually exposing more bruised human weakness than she’s permitted herself to show since The Lonely Passion of Judith Hearne.The film is on less sure footing with Bennett himself, played by Alex Jennings as squabbling dual personalities – a sort of ego-id split, alike in tweediness – in a writerly gimmick that swiftly wears out its welcome. By its end, the film actually manages to accumulate four separate incarnations of Bennett; an impressive meta-conceit, but still no match for a single Smith.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Brett Haley’s I’ll See You in My DreamsThe much-touted “grey pound” audience that made a hit of The Lady in the Van didn’t turn up for I’ll See You in My Dreams (Universal, 12) – a shame, because it’s both sharper and sweeter in its delineation of the social resources that can desert women (even, in this case, more well-heeled ones) past a certain age. Beautifully carried by Blythe Danner in a rare showcase role, this ambling semi-comic study of a 20-year widow unexpectedly faced with two new men in her life takes on the pleasures and pitfalls of late-life companionship and sexuality with a soft, cheery touch. Which is not to say it’s a sop: there can be incisiveness in kindness, and even with its colour-supplement visual style, Brett Haley’s film feels true at every turn.Directors Ryan Fleck and Anna Boden (Sugar, Half Nelson) specialise in a more ragged kind of integrity. Things went awry with 2010’s hyper-quirky comedy It’s Kind of a Funny Story, but they’re back on aching, bone-deep form with Mississippi Grind (eOne, 15), a lovely, meandering byway of melancholic Americana, boasting a tremendous performance by Ben Mendelsohn as a hard-luck midwestern poker addict working his way south in the geographical and financial senses, and an unusually warm, canny one from Ryan Reynolds as the younger casino cruiser who becomes his ambiguous ally. It’s sly, soulful stuff, worthily channelling the shaggy, hang-loose character studies of 1970s US cinema.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Ben Mendelsohn gives a great performance in Mississippi Grind.We needn’t dwell long on The Last Witch Hunter (eOne, 15), a dank, digitally cluttered occult adventure for Vin Diesel that never makes good on the loony promise of its best/worst line: “They took all the world’s most powerful witches and put them in one place – the witch prison!” Nor Fathers and Daughters (Warner, 15), a gummy, decade-jumping family melodrama, starring Russell Crowe as a seizure-prone widower and spectacularly untalented Pulitzer-winning novelist that couldn’t be more 90s if it had a title ballad crooned by Michael Bolton. Which, hang on, it does.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michael Jackson in the Spike Lee documentary Michael Jackson’s Journey from Motown to Off the Wall.There are awesome Himalayan peakscapes galore, plus a certain invigorating, how-did-they-do-that moxie, to recommend extreme mountaineering ode Meru (Universal, E). But the documentary event of the week is newly available on iTunes: Michael Jackson’s Journey From Motown to Off the Wall, the second of Spike Lee’s spirited, exhaustive windows on to the career of the dead-but-undeposed King of Pop that corrals a lively array of disco-dazzle archive footage and gregarious talking heads to track the late-70s period in which Jackson, by his stunted standards at least, came of age. Obviously indispensable for acolytes, it’s not as quite as meaty as its predecessor Bad 25 (also on iTunes), but Lee’s adoration spills infectiously from its sequinned satin seams.