They were only young, tiny children too young to understand anything. Still growing, in size and personality. Innocent and unaware and that’s when they were taken - ripped away from their families, leaving their parents distraught and heartbroken. No one knows where, no one knows why. All six of them disappeared as if they never even existed. Eleven years later, five of them return, almost adults now, with no memories of anything or anyone except each other. But where’s the sixth child? Where’s Max Goddard?I started reading this book because it sounded absolutely chilling and I thought it was going to be an absolutely amazing thriller. Full of twists, turns and awesome story lines. However, I felt that it was written weirdly. Tara has a way of trying to convey the characters’ confusion and lack of memories by trying to display it through things such as jumbled words and blank pages with only slashes. At first I thought it’s really clever and really conveys how confused the characters are. As the book went on I found myself getting more and more frustrated with the way it’s written and how there are whole pages that don’t really make a lot of sense.The book is written from the point of view of three different characters; two of them are people who had disappeared and the third is the sibling of one of the people who disappeared. The sibling’s stream of consciousness is easier to read but I think I would have much preferred it to have been written from one perspective rather than three. I found that I couldn’t clearly distinguish between the two girls as their personalities aren’t developed enough to clearly remember whose point of view you’re reading. I feel that the point of view of the male character was the most interesting.This book definitely has a mystery/thriller element to it. I found myself trying to solve the mystery but the clues aren’t all that hooking and didn’t make me desperately turn the pages, eager to find out what happens next. I found myself feeling very detached from this book and struggling to keep reading to the end. I don’t think the conclusion is anything to make a big fuss about. It’s an unsatisfying end and I don’t think it ended the way it should have.The Leaving has a very messy plot and characterisation. I didn’t connect with any of the characters and feel like there is nothing to keep you engaged or excited.From the cover it looks really exciting and creepy but I couldn’t get into it. It just isn’t my kind of thing.How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? As always, please don’t take my opinion too seriously as my thoughts may not be yours. If you have an interest in reading this book then I really suggest you go and read it because what’s not my kind of thing could be your kind of thing.2.5/5 stars.• Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!