Dan on Jack What were you hoping for?I was incredibly nervous, so I was just hoping to get through the date. I’d even planned my escape.First impressions?Different from what I would usually have picked for myself, but he was instantly funny.What did you talk about?So much: both being from services families, politics and art, previous awkward first dates.Any awkward moments?Trying to eat mochi: not easy.Good table manners?Impeccable.Best thing about Jack?He is witty and generally a really great person to be around.Would you introduce him to your friends? Over time, yes. His choice of Netflix programmes would go down a treat with my best friends.Describe Jack in three wordsWitty, driven, attentive.What do you think he made of you?I really don’t know.Did you go on somewhere?No, we both had work the next day.Blind date: ‘We talked about having children’ And… did you kiss?Nope.If you could change one thing about the evening, what would it be?Having it last longer.Marks out of 10?7.Would you meet again?Certainly – he’s a really great guy.Jack on Dan What were you hoping for?A career-driven guy with a taste for culture.First impressions?He looked young. I’ve never dated someone my own age.What did you talk about?Mostly his life and interests.Any awkward moments?None that I was aware of.Good table manners?I didn’t notice anything bad.Best thing about Dan?He’s cheerful and polite.Would you introduce him to your friends? No, I don’t think so.Describe Dan in three wordsPleasant, political, young-spirited.What do you think he made of you?He said I was funny, so I guess I made a positive impression.Did you go on somewhere?No.And… did you kiss?No.If you could change one thing about the evening, what would it be?Unfortunately, my date. We didn’t have anything in common and there wasn’t any physical attraction on my part.Marks out of 10?4. He didn’t tick any of my boxes.Would you meet again?It’s a no from me.• Dan and Jack ate at Nirvana Kitchen, London W1.Fancy a blind date? Email blind.date@theguardian.com.For a free three-day trial, go to soulmates.theguardian.com/subscribe/blinddate