A Lady an explorer? A traveller in skirts?The notion’s just a trifle too seraphic:Let them stay and mind the babies, or hem our ragged shirts;But they mustn’t, can’t, and shan’t be geographic.With those four lines of verse, Punch satirised the walrus-whiskered committee of the Royal Geographical Society in 1893. Until that year, those men had vehemently opposed the election of women to the venerable society. Many female fellows since have taken their seats at 1 Kensington Gore, but, judging from today’s shelves of travel literature, women remain under-represented. As chair of this year’s Dolman Travel Book of the Year award, I was shocked to see that fewer than a quarter of the titles submitted were written by women.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mary Kingsley, photographed in her expedition canoe on the Ogowe river in 1895, during her second trip to west Africa. Photograph: AlamyWhy? Many women have excelled in the field. Mary Kingsley belonged to that tribe of tweed-skirted Victorians who battled through malarial swamps, parasols aloft, or scaled unnamed Pamirs, trailed by a retinue of exhausted factotums. History has tended to write them off as benignly mad eccentrics, but the best among their volumes have stood the test of time and remain on shelves today. For the epic Travels in West Africa (1897), Kingsley hacked through those countries now known as Ghana, Nigeria, Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea and Gabon. Our heroine waded through swamps for two hours at a time, up to her neck in fetid water with leeches round her neck like a frill. After falling 15 feet into a game pit laid with 12-inch ebony spikes, she noted, “It is at these times you realise the blessing of a good thick skirt.”Kingsley died of typhoid in 1900, aged 37, on her way back to Africa. Earlier, alone on a river bank at night, she had written of the majesty of the scene. “If I have a heaven,” she reflects, “that will be mine.” I hope it was. It’s true that women were thin on the ground in the two modern golden ages of travel literature: the 1930s and 1970s. But the 20th century did produce role models. Sybille Bedford (1911-2006) found, in her book Don Otavio, the story of a Mexican journey, a way of anchoring her ideas in landscape – what all the best writers do. At once she is arch and wistful, funny and mortally serious, and her prose is divine. Don’t you love “the fugitive complexity of an older wine” (Bedford loved wine)? One thinks of her when in a hole – I have in mind the unswept room in Pátzcuaro, the one with a rusty tap that dripped, and someone else’s hairpins on the chest, everything damp, the author reduced to “drinking tequila in speechless gloom” and dining off food that “tasted of swamps”. When it happens to me, I think of Pátzcuaro, and resolve not to be miserable but to make something of it, like Bedford did.I don’t think that the business of having babies and tending the hearth has much to do with the dearth of female travel literature. You can scale down on extreme environments and cart the tots along with you (I did), or take a break to write something else for a few years – biographies of travellers, say. A change of gear can stoke creativity.Television has a lot to answer for, churning out endless programmes depicting random blokes with beards yomping across the jungle. During the six months I spent in both the Antarctic and the Arctic, I observed that men perceived the landscape as a beast to be beaten into submission, like a mammoth outside the cave.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Reese Witherspoon as Cheryl Strayed in Wild. Photograph: Allstar/Fox SearchlightDea Birkett is the author of Serpent in Paradise (1997), a well-received travelogue about Pitcairn Island. “Travel and adventure have become confused,” she says. “To get a travel book published, you don’t have to see something differently, you have to do something differently. A man may paddle up the world’s longest rapid without an oar, with a gutless friend in the back as a foil, and you might have a bestseller. Women tend not to have these sorts of adventures, because they consider them pointless. They are. In a market that values stunts over staying, looking and revealing, women travel writers will always be at a disadvantage.”Like television, the big screen has hardly excelled itself. Beyond Thelma and Louise (released 26 years ago, believe it or not), one can think of few other female-led travel stories or road movies – only the likes of travelogue adaptations such as 2010’s Eat Pray Love, with Julia Roberts as writer Elizabeth Gilbert, on a journey of self-discovery in India, Italy and Indonesia. Or 2014’s Wild, with Reese Witherspoon playing Cheryl Strayed, author of a book about a redemptive hike across the US (she invented the surname).Producer Alison Sterling, of Bristol’s Ignition Films, has Southern Pacific in development. It is a mother-and-daughter story about a jaunt from San Diego to New Orleans. Kefi Chadwick wrote the screenplay. “There’s some resistance to women having adventures that aren’t domestic,” Chadwick reflects. “Like the Western, the road movie is a genre that resists female protagonists.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gertrude Bell, on horseback in Baghdad, Iraq. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoAnother Victorian favourite of mine, Gertrude Bell, is as relevant today as she was when she reshaped the political map of the Middle East. Among the leading Arabists of the day (and a far more interesting one than that fraud TE Lawrence), Bell was the first female military intelligence officer. Like many women before her and since, she found a new identity away from that place called home. Although she travelled through many lands, Bell was happiest in the desert, on the far edge of life. After a week on a camel, she could immediately walk for miles (I was a physical wreck for a month when I tried). Sitting in her tent during a hailstorm, she read Hamlet, then composed a letter to Dick Doughty-Wylie, the love of her life. “Princes and powers of Arabia,” Bell wrote, “stepped down into their true place, and there rose up above them the human soul, conscious and answerable to itself.” That’s the spirit.There have, of course, been some strong travel books written by women recently. I enjoyed A Siberian Winter’s Tale - Cycling to the Edge of Insanity and the End of the World, by Helen Lloyd. Elizabeth Luard’s Squirrel Pie (and other stories): Adventures in Food Across the Globe is an excellent addition to the voguish “foodoir” category, which overlaps often with travel writing – both being, in the end, hybrid genres. Collectively, though, we must do better. Clare Alexander, director at leading literary agency Aitken Alexander, wonders: “Why is it that of all genres, travel writing has remained so predominantly male – even macho? My business partner, the late Gillon Aitken, represented most of a brilliant generation of travel writers who rose to prominence in the 1980s, including Martha Gellhorn, the dauntless reporter who was the exception that proved the rule. Are we really only interested in seeing the glory and horror and complexity of the modern world through men’s eyes?”Gellhorn was the real thing. Look out for her stuff when you are next looking for a fabulous read. “I do not wish to be good,” she wrote of life on the road. “I wish to be hell on wheels, or dead.” My sentiments exactly.