Beyoncé's feminist message at rally for Clinton: 'Look how far we've come' It’s been a presidential campaign which has seen the music world taking sides – with Loretta Lynn, Kid Rock and a crotch-grabbing Ted Nugent endorsing Donald Trump, and pretty much every other musician who expressed a view throwing their weight behind either Bernie Sanders or the eventual Democratic candidate, Hillary Clinton. Madonna has been one of the most vociferous Hillary Clinton supporters, and announced on Instagram that on Monday night she would play an “intimate very small acoustic concert” somewhere in Brooklyn for Clinton. Further details have not been released.In another recent post, Madonna declared: “If Trump were elected we would be at war in no time at all. The whole world is laughing at us right now. I can only imagine what Trump writes in his emails. Wait - can he even write?? Wake up people this is not a reality show. I appreciate his charm and entertainment value but he is not qualified to be a head of state!”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This is not Madonna’s first intervention in a US presidential election. In 1990 she made a video encouraging fans to vote, dressed in lingerie while wrapped in the stars and stripes. Meanwhile, in a more ambiguous contribution, Aphex Twin also commented on the US election with a video to promote his first appearance in the country in over eight years, at Houston’s Day for Night festival.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Made by the company Weirdcore, which has made visuals for musicians ranging from Miley Cyrus to Radiohead, and “approved” by the Cornish electronic music titan, the video incorporates sped-up footage from the presidential debates – including Trump’s notorious line “such a nasty woman” – the candidates’ faces folded up in Aphex Twin’s signature visual style. It ends with computerised footage of Aphex Twin-branded bombs falling on Houston.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Trump: I’ve never used language as bad as Jay Z’s in my lifeTrump v Beyoncé: the moral majority's attempt to defend the indefensible Meanwhile, Trump has continued to attack Jay Z and Beyoncé after they performed for Hillary Clinton at a rally in Cleveland on Friday. On Monday in Florida, the Republican candidate said: “The language is so bad. As they were singing? Singing, right? Talking? Was it talking or singing? I don’t know. But the language – by both – but the language was so bad, that many of the people left. By the time Hillary got up, there was nobody there.”Trump added: “Isn’t it amazing that when Jay Z and Beyonce use the filthy language they use in the songs – using words that if I ever said those words, it would be the reinstitution of the electric chair, right? They use these words, and then she comes on and hugs them, like everything is right. And yet with me, ‘He’s very lewd.’”