1. Yehudi Menuhin, born in New York City on April 22, 1916, was a US violinist, later also a conductor, teacher, impresario and supporter of human rights.2. For the first 22 years of his life, his father falsified his birth date by nine months, presumably with the intention of making him seem even younger and thus even more of a prodigy.3. Menuhin also had a Swiss passport, linked to his family’s 40 year residence in Gstaad.4. In his late 60s Menuhin was also granted UK citizenship which enabled him to become Sir Yehudi. (He had been made an honorary KBE in 1965.) In 1993 he was named a life peer and took the title Lord Menuhin of Stoke d’Abernon, thus honouring the Surrey village where his international school for young musicians is situated.5. His parents Moshe and Marutha were both born in Czarist Russia and came to the US separately after spending their childhoods in Palestine. 6. When he was four Yehudi was given a cheap violin made of tin but smashed the toy to the ground when he couldn’t make a beautiful sound on it.7. His grandmother in Palestine sent sufficient cash for his father to buy an automobile for the family (a Chevrolet) and a real violin for Yehudi.8. He and his sisters Hephzibah and Yaltah were educated at home by their parents and tutors. The girls, four and five years younger respectively, were both fine pianists, prompting a French professor to the observation that Mrs Menuhin’s womb was “a veritable conservatoire”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Menuhin aged 11. Photograph: Ullstein Bild/ullstein bild via Getty Images9. Yehudi was an astonishing child prodigy. His family moved to California when he was an infant and he spent most of his first decade in San Francisco, where he studied first with the Austrian-born Sigmund Anker and then, aged seven, with Louis Persinger, a pupil of Eugene Ysaye.10. On November 9, 1922, the six-year-old Yehudi played Accolay’s violin concerto in A minor at the San Francisco Civic Auditorium. This was his first public appearance.11. In February 1923, he performed Charles de Beriot’s Concerto No. 9 “with the poise and temperament of a veteran” - according to the San Francisco Journal.12. He gave his first full-length solo recital in 1925, aged eight at the Scottish Rite Auditorium, San Francisco, the programme included Mendelssohn’s violin concerto (with piano accompaniment).13. The next year, aged nine, he made his New York recital debut, at the Manhattan Opera House. To the exasperation of his father, he exchanged a silver-tipped violin bow for a month’s supply of wild strawberries. 14. The Menuhin family moved to Europe so that Yehudi could continue his studies with two of the world’s finest musicians: the Romanian George Enesco in Paris and the German Adolf Busch in Basel.15. He made his Paris debut in 1927 when he was 10, playing concertos by Lalo and Tchaikovsky under the conductor Paul Paray.16. In the summer of 1927 the Menuhin family went to Romania at Enesco’s invitation. Yehudi heard gypsy music for the first time. To the exasperation of his father, he exchanged a valuable silver-tipped violin bow for a month’s supply of wild strawberries from the gypsies.17. He first played the Beethoven violin concerto at Carnegie Hall when he was 11; the orchestra was conducted by Fritz Busch.18. In December 1928 he gave the world premiere of Abodah (“God’s Worship”) written especially for him by Ernest Bloch. This was the first of over 40 commissions and dedications; composers who wrote for him include Frank Martin, Andrzrej Panufnik and Malcolm Williamson.19. In January 1929 he was given the $60,000 Stradivarius violin known as the Prince Khevenhueller (after its first owner).From the archive 21 November 1932: Yehudi Menuhin, the brilliant boy violinist 20. At his Berlin debut in March 1929, aged 12, Yehudi performed a marathon concert consisting of three violin concertos: Bach’s in E Major and the Beethoven before the intermission and Brahms in the second half, with the final two movements of the Mendelssohn concerto played as an encore. The conductor Bruno Walter remembered the boy wonder: “he was a child and yet he was already a man and a great artist.”21. In the Berlin audience in March 1929 was the Nobel Prize-winning physicist Albert Einstein. His reaction after the performance, as recorded by Moshe Menuhin: “My dear Yehudi, tonight you have taught me my first new lesson in many years...I have made a new discovery. I see that the day of miracles is not over...Our dear old Jehovah is still on the job.”22. Yehudi was a plump boy despite taking regular exercise. His favourite post-concert relaxation was to eat strawberry ice cream with whipped cream on top.23. He made his first gramophone recordings in 1928 for the RCA Victor company. On one side of the ten-inch 78 rpm disk was J.-H. Fiocco’s Allegro. On the other was La Capricciosa by Franz Ries. As a reward after his first recording session Yehudi was taken to see The Jazz Singer, starring Al Jolson, the very first talking picture. Einstein was in the Berlin audience in 1929. I see that the day of miracles is not over, he said, after the concert. 24. During the Depression years Yehudi, now a teenager, switched his recording contract to His Master’s Voice; he stayed with that company for over 50 years.25. In his teens, Menuhin was the world’s highest-paid musician and a friend of some of its greatest musicians including the conductor Arturo Toscanini and the composer Edward Elgar, whose violin concerto he recorded in 1932.26. In 1938 all three Menuhin children got married within the space of three months. Yehudi, 22, married a beautiful Australian redhead, Nola Nicholson. Hephzibah married Nola’s sheep-farming brother Lindsay and went to live in Australia. Yaltah, only 16, married an American lawyer who turned out to be a homosexual; she was home again within six months.27. Yehudi and Nola had two children, Zamira and Krov. Their marriage broke down during the second world war.28. Pressured by Nola’s father the couple attempted a reconciliation when peace returned but they had irreconcilable personality differences.29. In 1947 Yehudi Menuhin married Diana Gould, a former ballet dancer who had worked with Nijinkska, Massine and Ashton. They had two sons, Gerard and Jeremy. Like their father, the four children all had failed first marriages.30. During the war Menuhin played for US troops all over North America including a tour of the Aleutian Islands and in Hawaii a series of concerts for wounded marines and for other combatants about to participate in the Battle of Guam.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Yehudin Menuhin at a concert at Albert Hall/London. Photograph. November 29th 1931. Photograph: Imagno/Getty Images31. During the war, Menuhin flew to Britain twice to play for British and French troops and factory workers. Within days of their liberation in 1944 he gave concerts in Antwerp, Brussels and Paris, where he had lived during his teens while studying with Enesco.32. On his way back to England from Paris his plane crash-landed in a Kent field and he hitch-hiked to London to fulfil a BBC radio broadcast later that day.33. In November 1944, in New York, he gave the world premiere of the Sonata for solo violin which he had commissioned from Bela Bartók.34. In April 1945 he played for the inauguration of the United Nations General Assembly in San Francisco.35. In June 1945 he screen-tested for the role of Niccolo Paganini in a British feature film entitled The Magic Bow. The part eventually went to Stewart Granger, but Menuhin recorded the film’s soundtrack.36. Soon after the end of the war Menuhin travelled to the Belsen concentration camp to play for survivors of the holocaust and also for German civilians. His pianist was Benjamin Britten.37. His tour of destroyed Germany concluded with a broadcast performance from Hamburg of the Mendelssohn violin concerto, the first time Germans had heard it since the banning of Mendelssohn’s music in 1933.38. In November 1945 he flew to Moscow and forged a friendship with the great violinist David Oistrakh. He also visited Moscow’s Central School for gifted musical children which inspired the creation two decades later of his own international school in England.39. In 1946-47 he actively campaigned for Wilhelm Furtwängler to be de-Nazified, giving concerts with him at the Salzburg and Lucerne festivals and later in Berlin.40. In Berlin his recital for Jewish displaced persons was boycotted because of his support for Furtwängler. Next day he visited the nearby DP camp and made a compelling argument for reconciliation between victors and vanquished.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Menuhin and his second wife Diana, in 1958. Photograph: Ullstein Bild/ullstein bild via Getty Images41. Within an hour of marrying Diana Gould at the Chelsea Registry Office in London on October 18 1947, Menuhin was at a concert rehearsal at the Royal Albert Hall, playing Paganini’s B Minor concerto. 42. In December 1947 Menuhin travelled to Hollywood to film a complete recital entitled Concert Magic. The worthy project of disseminating classical music in cinemas was doomed to commercial failure by the advent of television. Only two months later, in February 1948, Yehudi appeared in the first classical concert ever to be televised on the West Coast.43. A film of Menuhin playing the Mendelssohn Violin Concerto dates from the same studio sessions. The Hollywood Symphony Orchestra was conducted by his Hungarian friend Antal Dorati. 44. In 1949, in Zurich, he gave the premiere of the Sonata for violin and piano which he had commissioned from William Walton. The pianist was Louis Kentner and the work was dedicated to the wives of the two musicians, Diana Menuhin and Grizelda Kentner, who were sisters.45. In 1950 he made his first visit to Israel. He was greeted by bomb threats but went ahead with a series of public recitals partnered by his sister Hephzibah.46. In 1950 he visited South Africa and spoke out against segregation. He insisted on playing for black audiences as well as white. He made a second visit in 1956 to appear at the Johannesburg Festival but did not return thereafter until the end of apartheid. In 1996 he conducted Handel’s Messiah with a black choir in a township outside Johannesburg. In 1950 he visited South Africa and insisted on playing for black audiences as well as white. 47. In May 1951 Menuhin and his sister were entrusted with the first recital to be given in London’s new Royal Festival Hall.48. While touring in New Zealand later in 1951 he read an article about yoga and decided to apply its relaxation method to his own violin playing.49. He visited India for the first time in 1952, raising money for famine relief. He advertised for a yoga teacher and chose Mr B.K.S. Iyengar from Puna, who became a lifelong friend.50. While in India he dined with the prime minister Pandit Nehru and demonstrated his newly acquired skill at yoga by standing on his head at the pre-dinner cocktail party. Mr Nehru responded in kind.51. For eight years, from 1952 to 1960, he and his wife travelled by land and sea but not by air. This followed the deaths in air crashes of the noted violinists Jacques Thibaud and Ginette Neveu.52. He was the first musician to play a solo concert in St Paul’s Cathedral, London, to an audience that included the Queen Mother.53. He coached violin for the first time in 1954 when he was the guest professor at Nadia Boulanger’s summer school in Fontainebleau.54. In 1957 he established his own festival in the Swiss resort town of Gstaad. Benjamin Britten and Peter Pears were the only guest artists.55. The Menuhin family chalet, entitled “Chankly Bore” (a reference to the Jumblies by one of Diana’s favourite poets, Edward Lear), was ready for occupancy in 1960. Mr Iyengar was a regular visitor.56. Having definitively quit California the Menuhins made their winter base for two winters in a villino (cottage) on the estate of the American art historian and dealer Bernard Berenson outside Florence.57. In 1959 he assumed the artistic direction of the Bath Festival, which he ran for a decade, making many successful recordings with the Bath Festival Orchestra, later re-named the Menuhin Festival Orchestra.58. The Menuhins moved to England in 1960, settling in a fine house in The Grove, Highgate.59. For the last four decades of his life, Yehudi Menuhin became part of the English scene. He wrote many letters to The Times, appeared on the BBC Third Programme’s Brains Trust series and helped to found an organic food shop in central London. He was one of the first Londoners to acquire an electrically-powered car. 60. Menuhin was an early supporter of green causes. He was one of the first Londoners to acquire an electrically-powered car. Passengers in the back seats had to get out and push when it was driven up Highgate Hill.61. In 1962 he was awarded the gold medal of the Royal Philharmonic Society.62. In June 1963, at his Bath Festival, he played Bartók’s solo sonata for a new ballet, Serenade, by Kenneth Macmillan featuring Margot Fonteyn and Rudolf Nureyev.63. In September 1963 the Yehudi Menuhin International Music School opened in a former hotel in Kensington. The school moved the following year to its present premises in Stoke d’Abernon near Cobham, Surrey.64. In 1965 the Queen bestowed an honorary knighthood (KBE) on Yehudi; because he was an American citizen he could not use the title.65. April 1966: Menuhin celebrated his 50th birthday with a concert at the Royal Festival Hall. His son Jeremy, then 14, made his public debut playing Mozart’s concerto for three pianos with his aunts Hephzibah and Yaltah.66. In June 1966, at the Bath Festival, he conducted his first Mozart opera, Cosi fan tutte. 67. December 1967: Menuhin’s love of Indian music reached its apogee. The great sitar virtuoso Ravi Shankar joined him to perform their West meets East programme at the General Assembly of the United Nations, marking the 20th anniversary of the declaration of universal human rights.68. Partnered by his manager, Sir Ian Hunter, he inaugurated the Windsor Festival in 1969, appearing there for the next four years.69. Between 1969-75 he served as President of the International Music Council, UNESCO.70. 1972: A speech delivered at the IMC Congress in Moscow criticised the Russian government for its treatment of dissidents, including Mstislav Rostropovitch and Alexander Solzhenitsin. Pravda ignored the speech but the text, translated into Russian, was circulated clandestinely.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A 1949 portrait. Photograph: Popperfoto/Getty Images71. December 1971: Menuhin’s celebrated partnership with jazz violinist Stephane Grappelli was inaugurated on BBC TV with Jealousy. They recorded six LPs over the next decade.72. In 1972 Menuhin published Theme and Variations, a collection of his speeches and essays.73. In the early 70s he made two television programmes for ITV’s Aquarius in which his wife narrated verse by Edward Lear and EE Cummings to music by Edwin Roxburgh.74. He made his conducting debut with the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra in 1975, later becoming its life president.75. Yehudi’s 60th birthday party was televised by BBC2. The host for the evening was David Attenborough.76. His memoirs, Unfinished Journey were published in 1977. An extended edition appeared for his 80th birthday in 1996.77. 1977 saw the foundation of Live Music Now, the organisation that sends young professional musicians to perform in hospices, prisons and other venues off the beaten track. Similar organisations have spring up in many other countries, notably Germany and Austria.78. He co-wrote and hosted The Music of Man, an eight-part TV series made by CBC in 1978.79. He visited China for the first time in 1979 and was appointed honorary professor of violin at Beijing Conservatory.80. In 1980 Menuhin played at the opening ceremony of the Winter Olympics at Lake Placid, US, performing Bartók duets with his protégé Edna Michell.81. On January 1, 1981, his sister Hephzibah died from throat cancer.82. His father Moshe, died aged 88 in 1982. Menuhin played at Carnegie Hall a few hours after learning the news, saying his father would have wanted it that way.83. The same year he takes the Menuhin School Orchestra on its first concert tour of China.84. In 1983 he conducted a concert for the (Polish) Pope with the Polish Chamber Orchestra, which was later re-named the Sinfonia Varsovia. In 1994 and 1997 he recorded with them complete sets of the symphonies of Beethoven and Schubert.85. 1984: He conducts La Clemenza di Tito at the Bonn Opera. The only mature Mozart opera he didn’t ever conduct was Figaro.My mentor Yehudi Menuhin: 'I can still hear his beautiful sound' 86. Life Class, (edited by Christopher Hope, father of one of his favourite pupils Daniel Hope) is published in 1987, containing ‘thoughts, exercises, reflections of an itinerant violinist”.87. He receives the Order of Merit from the British Queen at a private ceremony in 1987.88. 1989: he attends the World Economic Council in Davos for the first time.89. In May 1991 he addressed the Knesset (Parliament) in Jerusalem, lecturing the Israelis on the need to live peacefully with their Arab neighbours. The Jewish destiny, he said, was to heal and help.90. 1994 Brussels: the launch of MUS-E “bringing singing and dancing to [EU] schools ridden by violence”.91. Yehudi returned to Romania in 1995 and performed the music of his great teacher George Enesco.92. The same year he addressed the cultural delegates of the 15 countries of the European Parliament.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Conducting the Staatskapelle Berlin. Photograph: Ullstein Bild/ullstein bild via Getty Images93. 1995: From the Sitar to the Guitar – a live telecast from the Cirque Royale in Brussels - a history in music and dance of the great trek of the Romanies (the gypsies) from India to Spain, hosted by Ravi Shankar and Yehudi Menuhin.94. Prince Charles leads Menuhin’s 80th birthday celebrations at Buckingham Palace. The entertainment includes scenes from Bruno Monsaingeon’s wide-ranging and affectionate new documentary, The Violin of the Century.95. A concert in New York marks Menuhin’s 80th birthday with 14 works dedicated to Menuhin. Composers included Steve Reich, John Tavener and Lukas Foss.96. October 1996 Menuhin conducts a concert for peace in war-torn Sarajevo.97. 1997 First meeting, in Brussels, of the Assembly of Cultures, another of his international projects.98. In Autumn 1998 he embarked on a new documentary for the BBC entitled Menuhin’s Children. He wanted to show how a dozen ordinary children at a Surrey primary school could learn to play the violin from scratch. He died before the experiment was completed, but it was deemed a success.99. March 7 1999: In Dusseldorf Menuhin conducted what proved to be his last concert. The Sinfonia Varsovia was on a fortnight’s tour of Germany; violinist Daniel Hope was the violin soloist. As his encore, Hope played the soulful Kaddisch by Ravel, a work Menuhin had recorded in his teens.100. Taken ill a few days later (having meanwhile flown home at the weekend to visit his sick wife Diana) Menuhin was admitted to a West Berlin hospital where he died of a heart attack on 12 March 1999.Humphrey Burton is the author of Menuhin: A Life (Faber & Faber).