In 2004, the body of a 19-year-old woman was found on a school oval in Perth’s northern suburbs. James Duggan, also 19, confessed to choking Rebecca Ryle. My brother knew the killer. Despite hours of interrogation and the passage of two years between the murder and his trial, the only reason the scrawny man ever gave for his transgression was, “I don’t know”.A Murder Without Motive: The Killing of Rebecca Ryle – journalist Martin McKenzie-Murray’s first book – digs through the suburban male psyche to unearth Duggan’s why. It’s an intricate story of “rotten aspirations” laid bare, guided by fierce moral concern and a Helen Garner-esque desire to restore dignity to the victim and her family. McKenzie-Murray, chief correspondent for the Saturday Paper, was first interested in the case due to his “personal proximity” to Rebecca’s death. “The murder happened just around the corner from my parents’ house,” he tells Guardian Australia. “My brother knew the killer.”This personal history serves as a landscape of the suburbs; drug abuse in high school toilets, car wrecks, and the terrible excitement of violent rendezvous. Duggan was an aimless young man who “stole money and drugs from those around him”, and who attempted to make up for his unthreatening physique by making threats, yelling, “You have a fucking problem?” Long-time suspect charged with missing teenager Hayley Dodd's murder The night of the murder, he visited the local pub. He met Rebecca there, and they left together before midnight. They sat on the wooden fence that ringed a park 100 metres from her house. Duggan strangled her sometime before 1am.“The killing [served] as a point of reflection upon my adolescence and the [culture of] masculinity in the suburbs,” McKenzie-Murray says. In 2012, he returned to the scene of the murder and his youth to interview the surrounding community.“The deeper I examined my own life and spoke to people, the more I realised that the expectations of young men and the expressions of masculinity played a part in the complex culture of the crime.”This culture, as he tells it, was ruled by a “currency of violence”, where domination and control buys respect. McKenzie-Murray remembers a fellow student, Ian, who was wild and unpredictable in “skinny jeans and steel-capped boots”. His job was to pummel students for gang members; his random acts of violence affected a respectful fear.“There was a pressure to be tough,” McKenzie-Murray says. “I know the killer in this story felt that, I know my brother thought that, I know I felt that too.“This stuff kept coming up – ideas of young, bored men who have this unthinking sexual entitlement, who find identity in opposition and expression in violence.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A Murder Without Motive: the Killing of Rebecca Ryle, out February 2016 through Scribe Australia Photograph: ScribeMcKenzie-Murray details this system of punishment and reward when discussing the adage ‘boys will be boys’, often given to dismiss destructive behaviour. “I heard this from parents when I was growing up,” he says. “It’s a witless disregard for examining what their sons have done.”High schools were sites of rituals of “bullying and poisonous recrimination”, with scheduled after-school fights in an underpass. Gang squabbles were met with group-bashing; blood-stained T-shirts signified tenacity.A 2005 government study found men make up 79% of all perpetrators of reported crimes – men are almost four times more likely to commit an offence than women. “Violence is overwhelmingly a male problem, and the roots for this appear to be primarily social,” a London Commission on Violence and Children found. “If boys are taught that they can’t cry when their sisters can, it’s not surprising they hit instead.”Boys don’t cry. Be a man. Duggan’s father lived 15,000 kilometres away; his lying and stealing meant he never established deep friendships; he was bereft of intimacy and confidantes.I won't apologise for Australia's football violence problem. Nor should the FFA | Martin McKenzie-Murray “James affected the role of the hard man,” McKenzie-Murray writes in the book. “One part of the role involved pretending to be better with booze than he actually was. Another was plotting scores of drugs or retaliatory beatings, or riffing crudely on the virtues of women.”The outward bravado of young men in the suburbs – towards women as bodies to conquer, and other men as bodies to destroy – masks a startlingly empty inner life. Duggan and his mate Gareth lived with Gareths’ mum, with days filled by Xbox, pulling bongs and watching films such as Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. He hadn’t worked in six months and he was into anti-social past-times: graffiti; binge drinking and sly theft. Nothing about his life tells us he had the ability to express himself.“The idea of nurturing imagination or purpose were foreign things,” McKenzie-Murray says, of his own suburban upbringing. “Our identity and expression came through sport and girls and graffiti and violence. The hot mess of being a teenager was only expressed in really destructive ways.”What makes A Murder Without Motive fascinating – beyond the personal connection to tragedy, the insight into human nature and the raw candour of the victim’s parents – is the anecdotal discussion of masculinity. Not many male writers tackle patriarchal expectations of gender roles, but McKenzie-Murray embraces the task. And he makes a case that this suburban manhood can come at a terrible cost.A Murder Without Motive is out 1 February, through Scribe