More than 60,000 people thronged the streets of Manchester last Sunday to participate in a protest outside the Conservative party conference, organised primarily by anti-austerity group the People’s Assembly. Throughout the week there were speeches, marches, debates and performances by the likes of Frankie Boyle and the Super Furry Animals. Chief superintendent John O’Hare of Greater Manchester police praised most of the demonstrators for their “good grace”.None of this activity, however, received half as much attention as the behaviour of a small number of people directly outside the convention centre. One young delegate was struck on the head by an egg. Some journalists were spat on. Anyone entering the building was condemned as “Tory scum!”, even journalists and third-sector representatives. (Even Owen Jones.) There were reports of a rape threat and a vile antisemitic slur. Nobody was hurt and only a handful arrested – but the scene was ugly enough to make headline news and allow Iain Duncan Smith to tar the whole protest as “the left ranting and screaming at us”.​Ruling – but trying not to look smug: Owen Jones ​on the mood at Tory conference This came just a week after a few of the participants in a Fuck Parade march, orchestrated by the long-running anarchist group Class War to protest against gentrification in east London, attacked the Cereal Killer cafe. The windows of the cafe, which instantly became the face of unacceptable hipsterdom when it opened last year, were splashed with red paint and scrawled with – that word again – “SCUM”. On Twitter, many people who have no love for gentrification or £3 bowls of Cocoa Pebbles expressed their disgust.In the history of protest, these two incidents are microscopic blips. But they created an impression of growing tension and potential violence on the left following the Tories’ surprise victory in May. “Compared with Birmingham last year, it was much worse,” says George Grant, a Conservative delegate who stood against George Galloway in Bradford North. “I think impotent rage has the capacity to fire people up in the most unpleasant way.” From the opposite end of the political spectrum, Class War activist and LSE academic Lisa Mckenzie also believes that the mood has changed. “Something is happening in Britain,” she says. “People are getting angrier and angrier. I’ve felt it for a year now. People are going to food banks, the rich are getting richer, London has never been so full of millionaires and billionaires, and inequality is rising. Anger is a natural response to being screwed over.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Can anything stop the Conservatives? – John Harris videoDr Dan Mercea, lecturer in the department of sociology at City University, says that for several years there has been a move away from party politics towards the protest activities that academics refer to as “contentious politics”, a broad category extending from strikes and demonstrations to violence and riots. With the next election five long years away, their appeal has spiked. “There’s a sense that there’s a narrowing of the political opportunity structure; there’s a sense that politics has become more polarised,” Mercea says. “Therefore, there’s a growing appetite for collective action because there is a perception that you can’t really sit down with a Conservative and reach some kind of common ground. People are reorienting themselves towards protest politics.”Since his seismic victory in the Labour leadership race, Jeremy Corbyn has tried to harness the positive energy of protest while calling for a “kinder politics”. He urged protesters to “take no part in personal attacks” and, via a spokesperson, condemned the spitting on journalists as “inexcusable”. But he can’t singlehandedly control the tone of protest. As Twitter demonstrates, some of his supporters aren’t as gentlemanly, and there are factions on the left who still want nothing to do with Labour.Mckenzie, who was the Class War candidate in Duncan Smith’s Chingford constituency, points out that spitting doesn’t qualify as a tactic. “I’ve never been on a protest where we’ve had a meeting and said, ‘Right, the tactic today is we gob in journalists’ faces.’ That doesn’t happen.” She also says that the aim of the Fuck Parade, in which she participated, was not to attack property. She does, however, believe that not all protest needs to be peaceful, citing the new movie Suffragette. “The suffragettes used many different forms of protest, from chaining themselves to gates to smashing cafe windows. At the time, the suffragettes were seen as the enemy of the state but now we’re celebrating them. The argument can always be made that democracy works at any particular time. If people had said, ‘Actually it’s not democratic’, the suffragettes wouldn’t have had to do what they did.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tens of thousands of people protested outside the Conservative party conference this week. Photograph: Dan Kitwood/Getty ImagesIn any protest movement there is disagreement about the legitimacy and efficacy of certain forms of direct action. “It’s nothing new,” says Mercea. “Direct action generally serves two purposes: first, to build morale within a group, and secondly, to raise an issue to prominence. If you’re not well-resourced, direct action is a very effective attention-grabbing instrument. It can pay dividends if you think about the wider movement and more moderate groups step in. The radical and moderate wings don’t necessarily work together, but they can build on each other’s approaches. So there is tension, but there are also opportunities.”The danger of direct action, however, is that it risks diminishing public sympathy for the cause. After running the gauntlet outside the convention centre, George Grant took the unusual step of talking to some of the protesters about their grievances, writing about his encounters on the website Conservative Home. “I said to them, ‘Look, that sort of aggressive behaviour piqued my interest but it turns 99% of everyone else right off. You’re just shooting yourself in the foot.’ Most people, whether they’re to the left or right, are quite moderate. When they see people frothing and yelling and cursing and throwing eggs, I’m certain that turns them off. There clearly is a hardcore faction who aren’t to be reasoned with, but there are also people who are genuinely being let down. The problem with those sort of protests is they conflate the two.”So you hate the Tories – but what comes next? | John Harris It’s absurd to claim, as some conservative commentators have this week, that the left has a monopoly on violence and abuse. The Countryside Alliance, let alone far-right groups, have shown that is not the case. But people have short memories. It only takes one bad actor in a crowd of 10,000 to rewrite the narrative. Anyone who believes that the left tolerates violence or antisemitism will treat one incident as a metonym for the whole movement. Inevitably, the one will get more press coverage than the peaceful 9,999.Right now, there is a serious danger that the dirt from an aggressive minority will stick to Corbyn’s Labour. Jeremy Brier, the conference delegate who reported the instance of antisemitic abuse, made sarcastic reference to “the new kinder politics”. To make matters worse, inside the conference centre David Cameron and George Osborne sought to colonise the centre ground with a reboot of compassionate conservatism. However unfairly, the most abusive protesters enhanced the impression among Corbyn’s critics that Labour has given up on wooing middle England.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The demonstrations were part of the People’s Assembly’s National Week of Action. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianSome figures on the left were quick to condemn the worst behaviour in Manchester, including Jonathan Reynolds, Labour MP for Stalybridge and Hyde, and singer and activist Charlotte Church, who offered to write an open letter on behalf of the peaceful majority, “just to say we are really sorry, this isn’t what it’s about”. But Sam Fairbairn, national secretary of the People’s Assembly, refuses to disown any of the protesters. “I’m not willing to condemn anybody,” he says. “It’s not something that the People’s Assembly organises, but when you compare it to the violence and devastation from the government it’s actually insignificant.” But does that not help the protest’s opponents? “I think it’s a massive shame that the media focuses on the actions of a minority in an attempt to characterise the protest as illegitimate. But I don’t think it’s going to work. People won’t buy those lies.”Mckenzie also opposes distancing tactics and will neither endorse nor condemn abuse. “I really don’t like the idea that the left splits itself and says: ‘This is bad protesting and this is OK protesting,’” she says. “When you’ve got people visiting food banks and struggling with money and being terrified for their communities, if someone throws an egg, I don’t think it undermines that. People’s anger is justified at the moment.” Mckenzie, whose father was a striking miner 30 years ago, resents the idea that protesters should worry about hurting Labour’s electoral chances. “They’ve always said that about us: if we just shut up and let them get into power, they’ll look after us in the long run. We know how that worked out with Tony Blair. I have seen this all my life.”The question is not whether anger is justified. Even Grant concedes that the government’s welfare reforms have hurt people; he met some of them in Manchester. Indeed, there would be no protest without anger. What is at issue is whether unbridled fury ever translates well to the press and public. That’s why Martin Luther King instructed civil rights activists to swallow their rage and project defiant dignity in the face of racist violence, and why large protests use music, humour and optimistic rhetoric. “I think in most people’s eyes angry people are threatening people,” says Grant. “It’s very hard for your heart to go out to someone who’s got spittle on their lips and hatred in their eyes.”Why I protested at the Tory party conference | Sue Hagerty Mercea, however, insists that the media is only one battleground. “You have to take the long view,” he says. “It can benefit the government in the short run because some of these activities turn violent, but if these issues become part of a wider conversation in the media and parliament then it might hurt them in the long run. It depends on a lot of structural factors.”There are, of course, direct-action tactics that go beyond what Mckenzie dismisses as “A-to-B marches” without alienating the press or public. On Thursday, more than 100 protesters from the feminist group Sisters Uncut lay down on the red carpet outside the Suffragette premiere to raise awareness of cuts to services supporting victims of domestic violence. It was a bold PR coup that would have made the original suffragettes proud. The difference is that Sisters Uncut had an agenda and a plan. The eruptions of anger in Manchester and east London represent a mood rather than a movement. They are protest in the raw, without organisers or explicit aims: by definition uncontainable and deaf to the sober counsel of Corbyn or Church. They are manifestations of a frustration that is understandable even if it’s not excusable – and there may be more to come. Whether it ultimately proves effective or counter-productive in the fight against austerity is out of the protesters’ hands.