What do you say when you pass someone sauntering along a country path? A hearty hello? Acknowledgement, muttered and grudging? If you reside in Sussex, you’ll be cheerily hailing fellow walkers, runners and cyclists – the fruit of a £35,000 campaign by the South Downs national park authority.The British countryside has never had it so good A video showing you how concludes with a stern voiceover: “Hello, thank you, excuse me, that’s all it needs.” Paid greeters also took to the downs with “hello” signs – these people are serious.Obviously nobody apart from Crocodile Dundee says hello to strangers on city pavements, but in the countryside it is an open question, depending on whether you are an extrovert or an introvert – and where you live. I’m a helloer. I say hello to blackbirds, dogs and deer, so it would be awful if I blanked something as fascinating as an unfamiliar person. Even so, if I’m feeling less perky and pass someone who refuses eye contact, I sometimes lose my nerve and nothing – or worse, a strangulated half-hello – comes out.My patch, Norfolk, definitely nurses a culture of not greeting strangers in the countryside. My girlfriend, who is more Norfolk than me, finds helloers like me intrusive and smug. I wonder if it’s derived from a taciturn Viking/Scandinavian influence: a Cornish friend who has moved to rural Sweden is exasperated by the Swedes’ reluctance to say hello.When I walk in Yorkshire or Cumbria, everyone says hello. Durham and Northumberland are dazzlingly friendly. In my experience as a reporter it’s far easier to interview strangers in the north than south. But there’s no simple chatty-north, surly-south divide: I find poorer places more welcoming than rich.Clive Aslet, editor-at-large of Country Life, cites another influential band of hello refuseniks: the too-creative-to-chat brigade, such as Tennyson and TE Lawrence. “I’d no more want to greet an unknown walker whom I passed than make a Skype call from the bath,” writes Aslet. We are all free to hello or not hello, but I suspect that most of us quickly conform to whatever everyone else is doing. The most influential force for friendliness in the countryside is not a social media campaign but a real person, saying hello.Binocular vision  My favourite antisocial artist is the great Welsh poet RS Thomas, who would raise his binoculars to his eyes and feign interest in a non-existent bird to avoid small-talk with strangers on his beloved Llyn peninsula.How creepy are you? Take the test! Perhaps this keen birdwatcher’s discomfort with strangers was to reassure everyone that he wasn’t a creep. An American survey confirms the resilience of an ancient stereotype: men wielding binoculars are creepy. This, the psychologists explain, is because hobbies related to “watching” are regarded as creepy. The survey will be uncomfortable reading for birdwatchers who work as funeral directors and undertake clowning or taxidermy in their spare time. They need a cheery hello more than anybody.How to game the summer  On a gorgeous spring day last week I popped into Ikea for a couple of deckchairs. As I carried them to my car, there was an immense crack of thunder overhead. Presumptuous fool!How about I return the deckchairs if we all agree to abstain from purchasing hammocks, sun-loungers, barbecues, paddling pools and everything else peddled by shopkeepers preying on our optimism? Then, if the Environment Agency can be so kind as to issue a hosepipe ban and the Met Office predict a washout, we will finally be guaranteed a scorching summer.