Earlier this month, a groundbreaking agreement was reached to prohibit logging in the majority of the 6.4m-hectare Canadian rainforest known as the Great Bear Rainforest – a stretch of coastal ecosystem nearly the size of Ireland.The winners in the deal were environmental groups and the First Nations peoples who call the land their ancestral home. But there was also a less obvious contingent: an international assortment of business interests that used their influence to push for a deal. US forests under threat as demand for wood-based biofuels grows - report More than a dozen businesses that buy wood and paper products – from publishing companies like Canada’s Globe and Mail to major retailers like the United Kingdom’s Marks & Spencer – participated in the 16-year negotiation that resulted in the agreement to ensure sustainable forestry practices on the remaining land. They used their market clout to pressure forestry companies to commit to sustainability in the Great Bear Rainforest and, in return, reaped financial and social benefits for their own operations.Some companies – including BBC Magazine, paper goods giant Kimberly Clark and home improvement company B&Q – went so far as to cancel contracts with the region’s forestry companies. Others came at the problem from the opposite direction, showing the forestry industry the kinds of markets that could open up to them if they agreed to a deal. They all declined to disclose the financial impact of their contracts or other strategies.“Until forest product customers started voicing their concerns and asking for better, there was no motivation on the part of the forest industry and government to change business as usual,” said Nicole Rycroft, founder and executive director of Canopy, a Vancouver-based nonprofit that works with businesses to advocate for environmental change. “That’s where the marketplace has played a really key role.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The deal to protect the Great Bear Rainforest took 16 years to complete. It bans commercial logging on most of the land, gives First Nations peoples a greater say in managing the forest and ensures timber production for forestry companies for years to come. Here, Premier of British Columbia, Christy Clark, left, stands with Nicole Rycroft, executive director of nonprofit Canopy, on the day of the deal’s announcement. Photograph: CanopyWhen negotiations began in 2000, 95% of the Great Bear Rainforest region – an area of public land that makes up about one-quarter of the world’s remaining coastal temperate rainforest – was potentially available to commercial logging groups. Conservation groups fought to preserve the forest, the millions of tons of carbon it keeps out of the atmosphere and the habitat it provides for grizzly and black bear, elk, wolves and dozens of other species.In the final agreement, logging is prohibited on 85% of the land. The part that is open to commercial logging is rich in giant stands of trees, so the overall volume of timber available to forestry companies will decline by 40%. The agreement also sets stricter logging rules and gives indigenous people more say over forest management issues and $15m from the British Columbia provincial government for economic development activities.The Globe and Mail was one of the earliest companies to participate in the fight to preserve Great Bear, using its influence as a significant buyer of paper and a media outlet to demonstrate the market demand for more sustainable practices and raise public awareness of the challenges facing the region.Publisher and CEO Phillip Crawley lobbied British Columbia Premier Christy Clark and attended meetings where he made it clear his company would not buy paper from producers that don’t meet certain standards. The company uses 15,000 metric tons of paper each year, none of which has typically been sourced from the Great Bear Rainforest. Now that a deal is in place however, buying from the region is an option, Crawley said. He also used the public reach of his newspaper – a national publication with 1.1 million readers daily – to keep the fight in the spotlight.“It was very nice to splash a big picture on the front of the Globe and Mail, an aerial shot of the rainforest,” Crawley said. “People who read the paper regularly, who read the websites, get that this is an issue that matters to us.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Great Bear Rainforest in British Columbia is home to grizzly and black bear, elk, wolves and dozens of other species. It will now see 85% of its land protected from logging under a newly reached agreement. Photograph: Andrew S WrightMarks & Spencer got involved because it is a major buyer of rayon and other fabrics produced from wood fibers. The company, which had not previously sourced any material from the Great Bear region, acted as a carrot rather than a stick, demonstrating to the forestry companies the lucrative markets that could become available to them if they adopted sustainable principles, according to Fiona Wheatley, the department store’s sustainable development manager.Because demand for pulp-based fibers like rayon is expected to keep growing well into the future, agreements like this also help assure a stable supply for Marks & Spencer for decades, Wheatley said. Participating in the process also enabled Marks & Spencer to bolster its own reputation as a business that takes environmental protection seriously. “Customers want to know that every product they buy in Marks & Spencer has been responsibly sourced,” Wheatley said.Time, Inc – the publishing giant behind dozens of magazines, including People, Time and Sports Illustrated – got involved three years ago. The company’s role has a “modest benefit” in terms of consumers’ and stockholders’ perceptions that the business is doing the right thing for the environment, said Guy Gleysteen, the company’s senior vice president of production. But the real advantage is in the social license the company earns to establish itself as an eco-friendly enterprise.“Overall, it allows a company like Time, Inc to say we’re on solid ground when we assert the forest lands [we buy from] are being sustainably managed,” Gleysteen said.iForest: Apple gets into forest conservation in China and the US Though the deal reduces the amount of land accessible to logging, forestry businesses will benefit from greater certainty as to where they will be able to log in years to come, said Rick Jeffrey, lead negotiator for the Coast Forest Conservation Initiative, an association of five area forest products companies that was involved in forging the agreement.The forestry companies were allowed to continue logging during negotiations, taking 3.2m cubic meters per year, a yield that prevented them from taking a financial hit, the conservation initiative reported. The final plan allows the logging of 2.5m cubic meters of wood annually over the first 10 years. That number will be renegotiated at the end of the period.“If we manage that smartly, we’ll be able to maintain a stable harvest level over time – that’s very good for industry as a whole,” Jeffrey said. “Now we understand that stuff and so we can start to make investments in workers and facilities and equipment.”There are already signs that the Great Bear region forestry industry will see benefits from the deal. Gleysteen points out that the agreement now puts the pressure on companies such as Time to buy from the forestry companies and help to sustain the local communities that rely on the logging business to thrive.“There’s a social and economic responsibility to the people who live in that area,” he said. “You want to make sure you buy if you can.”