Rarely a day passes without the words “online spat” or “Twitter tirade” passing the lips of any entertainment reporter. The many terms to describe a litany of social-media fallouts and fluff-ups have become a depressingly frequent part of the modern journalistic vernacular: outrageous statements are made, passive-aggressive missives are fired. In the case of Kanye West, a drip-feed of every waking thought is bashed out, and sometimes deleted, with worrying regularity. If you pulled out a tiny violin for the entertainment reporter, however, perhaps upgrade your instrument to something bigger, a cello perhaps, for the hard-grafting management and PR teams, whose job it is to manage this very modern media storm. Or maybe not. The tradition of securing editorial coverage no longer being the end of the process but the beginning While popular culture paints the PR people pulling the strings as a mindless and misanthropic hybrid of A&R Steven Stelfox in Kill Your Friends, Patsy in Ab Fab and Perfect Curve’s Siobhan Sharpe in Twenty Twelve, in 2016, the job is less about getting hammered with the talent and more a reactive role in which “no comment” is dished out as frequently as Stephen Fry deletes his Twitter account. The impact of social media has had a profound effect on how the job is done; the way a news story is spread or a song is shared is now defined by social media, with the tradition of securing editorial coverage no longer being the end of the process but the beginning. Now that many of the industry’s biggest stars decline interviews (Year of the Fanboy Profile: Writers Fawning Over Subjects Because They Don’t Have a Choice is a must-read), their creative output and their social media accounts are the only ways in which fans can learn about an artist’s every move, every new tattoo or shade of quiff. A week on the road with a musician might not be something that the press have access to any more, but we can see what they had for breakfast on Instagram. It’s not always breakfast that’s on the agenda, however, and when an artist has sole control over their own social-media account, the outcome can be catastrophic. Just imagine the state of John Lennon’s Snapchat during The Lost Weekend. So can it do more harm than good?KANYE WEST (@kanyewest)BILL COSBY INNOCENT !!!!!!!!!!February 9, 2016“I think social media has to be looked at by artists in two different ways: first, as a way they can reach their fans directly, and second – just as important – as a means that a lot of the media use to write stories,” says one PR, who wishes to remain anonymous. “Ultimately, if an artist still does have an outburst, no strategy can really be applied without their involvement.” While the backlash often peters out as quickly as it began, there are some instances in which the outburst rightfully ends a career: DJ Ten Walls got dropped by his label after publishing a shocking Facebook post that labelled homosexuals as “another breed” and compared them to paedophiles. A number of former reality TV singers – James Arthur and Steve Brookstein, for example – have also made headlines after posting incredibly problematic opinions online. Sam Smith’s late-night, poorly phrased tweets regarding racist abuse saw the singer receiving a barrage of criticism from those who considered his comments the height of ignorance. Whether or not he will have to address these comments in future interviews is yet to be seen. I wouldn’t be surprised if his social media accounts, just like the rest of his career, follows in the path of Adele’s.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The damage is done … Ten Walls was dropped from his label after a shocking Facebook posting. Photograph: Joseph Okpako/WireImage“I mean I’m not a drinker any more, but when Twitter first came out I was, like, drunk tweeting, and nearly put my foot in it quite a few times,” Adele told the BBC last year. “So my management decided that you have to go through two people and then it has to be signed off by someone, but they’re all my tweets. No one writes my tweets. They just post them for me.” Artists hold all the power. Labels don’t have the control they once did Although artists are increasingly stripped of their social-media passwords, explains one PR, this kind of blocking doesn’t work for someone of West’s stature. “Artists hold all the power. Labels don’t have the control they once did and plenty of managers live in fear that when their artist gets successful, they won’t hesitate to drop them when they go against their wishes. So you get a culture of yes men, even when an artist’s behaviour veers from the erratic to downright alarming.”Cultivating an audience on social media does, of course, have its benefits. Artists can hotwire ideas and newly recorded material to fans who give real-time feedback, and others can gradually expose a curated version of themselves that quashes any tabloid rumours. It’s a simple way to introduce a new side of a star: barely an hour goes past without Miley Cyrus posting an image of herself adorned with a spliff; Rihanna, meanwhile, now routinely shows images of herself smoking weed, when a few years ago she was attacked by the press when she was papped rolling what appeared to be a joint on the shoulders of a bodyguard. Being high is just part of who she is now, and, as one PR tells me, “people like it because it’s not this vision of perfect”.While West has caused outrage with some of his recent comments, many believe his outbursts are a provocative part of the promotional process – PR, not for The Life of Pablo, but for his role as an entrepreneur. In the age of the artist as a celebrity brand, attention is everything. He has the world captive with the release of his new album; why not voice some other concerns, thoughts, controversial statements, while he is at it?  For 99.9% of artists, it would be terrible PR, make them a laughing stock and damage their career “In some situations I have seen artists – not who I work with – do it on purpose for the publicity, which I find entirely bizarre. But some people still believe in the old-school ‘all publicity is good publicity’ saying,” says one PR. “I think for 99.9% of artists, it would be terrible PR and would damage perception and make them a laughing stock and thus damage their career,” one PR explains. “However, part of Kanye’s charm is that we consider him a bananas genius, so in the long line of bananas things that Kanye has done, wouldn’t we just file this under that?”Whether or not the relentless streams of consciousness from West are knowing outbursts or a genuine concern for his team, the leaked audio of his Saturday Night Live breakdown – in which he calls Taylor Swift a “fake ass” and compares himself to “Stanley Kubrick, Picasso, Apostle Paul, fucking Picasso and Escobar” – seems like a kind of cruel bate. By feeding publications with constant news lines, the press has grown hungry, and now wants to add to the noise. Where will it end? It is a constant tugging of control. Hopefully, in the case of Kanye West, the outrage and confusion he has caused on Twitter in the past few weeks is all part of the plan. And if not, it is at least being considered by the people who orbit around him, to keep him present, keep him safe. After all, who else are we going to write about? 