The Australian writer, actor and comedian Josh Thomas has announced that the ABC series Please Like Me will not return, saying he and the series’ other producers “feel like [the show] is complete”.Based loosely on Thomas’s life, the critically acclaimed series, which stars Thomas as lead character Josh, was groundbreaking in its depiction of gay sex and relationships, and mental health. It was syndicated to the US network Pivot until the network folded in 2016. Season five was not announced during the ABC’s 2017 slate launch in November, leaving a question mark hanging over whether the series would return.How Please Like Me became one of TV's most honest and devastating shows | Steph Harmon “The other producers and I have decided that season four of Please Like Me is the last,” Thomas said in a tweet on Friday morning. “We decided this because we are really happy with what we’ve made and feel like it is complete.”Season four, which was punctuated by a tragedy that left the show’s fans devastated, ended with the completion of several story arcs: the lead character Josh parted with his psychologist and moved into his own home, his hapless friend Tom made moves to better himself, Tom’s girlfriend Ella ended their troubled relationship, and Hannah reunited with her ex-girlfriend.Josh Thomas (@JoshThomas87)Hey I have news. We have decided Season 4 #PleaseLikeMe is the last. I've loved making this show for you all so much. Thank you. pic.twitter.com/QKAk5nZQLVFebruary 2, 2017Josh Thomas on Please Like Me season four: 'We're doing so many sex scenes' Thomas used the moment to thank his viewers. “This show is so intensely personal, it recreates the most intimate moments of my life and lays them out for anyone to watch,” he said. “Seeing how people have connected with this show has been tremendously confidence-building for me and I’m really grateful for that.”He also thanked his parents, on whom were based two of Please Like Me’s standout performances: David Roberts as Josh’s father, Alan, and Debra Lawrance as his mother, Rose. “Also thanks mum and dad! They made me and then kept me alive which is really cool. They’ve been incredibly supportive of this show even though at times it makes them look like twats.“This show has brought me so much joy and I’m sad it’s over but also things have to end. I’m focussing now on what’s next, I hope to see you there.”The show is available on the ABC’s streaming service iView.