Kevin Abstract lives in a fraternity house. Tucked back on a side street a few blocks from the University of Southern California, the nondescript little cottage looks like any other place commandeered by kids living on their own for the first time. An assortment of junk – a broken-down sofa, takeout container filling in for an ashtray, several sheets of what looks like putting green – litters the front yard. Inside, there’s a jumble of empty food boxes and an errant bottle of cologne beside a flatscreen TV, protective cellophane sheath still intact. The house is bigger than it looks, but clearly it’s not intended to accommodate the dozen guys who have piled in here the way college kids do.But these aren’t college kids. They are the 12 members of Brockhampton, an artistic collective from Texas, and they’d prefer you called them a boy band, a creative factory or a brain trust. They are a family, and Abstract is its head. Frat houses in America generally have a reputation for being hotbeds of bro-tastic behavior like getting wasted, objectifying women and hazing rituals. There’s none of that among Brockhampton. They’re a one-stop shop if you’re building a boy band in 2017. Abstract is the creative director and lead singer, plus they have a DJ, a graphic designer, engineers, producers and rappers.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  We are what America actually is. We speak for people of color who have a hard time expressing themselves publicly “We are what America actually is. We speak for people of color who have a hard time expressing themselves publicly,” the 20-year-old Abstract says. His eyes are kind and inviting under his dreads, which have been dyed most shades of the rainbow and are currently yellow. Pitching his slim body slightly forward with his shoulders curled inward, he creates a warm, intimate little bubble around us. “People will tell you for years whatever you have to say isn’t important at all. So when you have someone who breaks the mold and speaks up and you see and identify with that – they become your hero.” He’s speaking about one of his heroes, the rap collective Odd Future, on which Brockhampton seems to be loosely modeled. Establishing the “all-American boy band” Brockhampton in 2015, Abstract has captured an adoring, engaged audience with vulnerable lyrics and a message of inclusivity and non-judgment he’s been spreading since his debut album, 2014’s MTV1987. Last fall, he released his sophomore album, American Boyfriend: A Suburban Love Story, full of gorgeous, emo-pop melodies, singalong choruses and the revelation, on the standout track Papercut, that Abstract is gay. Along with a flurry of activity – he played Tyler, the Creator’s Camp Flog Gnaw; won praise from the New York Times; threw a prom that featured performance art from Jaden Smith; and headlined a tour – the record broke him out of the “Internet rapper” box and thrust him into the mainstream conversation.Gay rap, the unthinkable becomes reality It makes sense that Abstract blossomed online. Born Ian Simpson in Corpus Christie, Texas, he never felt like he fit in “in real life”, even though he desperately wanted to. “I wanted to blend in ’cause I knew I was different. I wanted to be like everybody else, though,” he says. “I just wanted to get through it and be done. Pretty depressing.”Making friends was a challenge, and he wasn’t close with his family. He says he has never been to his father’s house, and he’s not sure what his mom did for work (“People think I’m lying when I say that, but I’m really not sure”). Growing apprehension about his sexuality further deepened his feeling of isolation. Looking back, “I probably always knew. But that’s one of those things that’s hard to accept. It’s hard to accept the truth, especially about yourself,” he says. “I have a line on the album: ‘I told the nigga before I even told myself.’ That’s basically like you opening up to someone about who you are before you come to terms of who you are by yourself.” “Even if the idea popped up in my head, I would just tell myself that’s not what it was,” he continues. “But when I’m able to reflect back on certain things as a kid, it makes sense. Just looking at guys and saying, ‘Oh, that guy’s cool’ – but [cool] was not what it was. But living in the south and being raised around people who were taught this is bad and not acceptable, you just don’t accept that. I can’t even blame them for raising me that way. They were born in it too. I was just lucky enough to recognize.” He took refuge in Will Smith movies, writing stories and dreaming up his “own little world”. When he was 12, he created Kevin Abstract by borrowing the name of a kid he thought was cool and asking a friend to describe his music, and he gradually began posting songs online. A couple years later, he moved to a new school in Georgia and found that the kids were impressed he’d built up a little momentum all by himself. Their response bolstered his fragile self-esteem, and he continued putting out projects. “I was like, OK, shit will get real after high school. It kinda has to, ’cause it’s all I have,” he says.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘And for me to be onstage in front of that many kids and for them to be like, damn, I identify with this person – now they have a new hero that looks like them.’ Photograph: Jason KentTo his parents’ chagrin, he decided he wasn’t going to college, and they told him he was on his own financially. But during high school, he’d forged connections with many of today’s Brockhampton members through the rap discussion board KanyeToThe, friendships that would prove crucial. “I just wanted to make it. But I had no money. How do I make this happen?” he says. “Luckily I had them, and they were in the same boat.” At 17, Abstract and the crew moved to San Marcos, Texas, divided themselves between three apartments and spent a year getting “really good at making music”. The incubation period paid off: last year, the guys moved to LA and released their first collective mixtape, All-American Trash; Abstract signed with the managers Christian and Kelly Clancy, of Odd Future fame; and Abstract’s sophomore album was executive-produced by Michael Uzowuru, a longtime friend and frequent collaborator with Vince Staples and Frank Ocean.It’s a month after our interview, and Abstract is headlining a show in LA. His popularity seems to be in better-than-average shape. The sold-out crowd screams his choruses in unison, hollers “hee-haw” in his Texas-specific call-and-response and joins in an anthemic clap-along. Pitchfork wrote that in a different era, Abstract would be an “endearing alt-rock frontman”, but Abstract really wants to be a pop star. Well, and a rap star. Well, a hybrid. “When you mention Bieber, Lorde, One Direction: I want to be on that list. But at the same time, when you say Lil Uzi Vert, I want my name to pop up too,” he explains. “I’m kinda in between both. I wanna bring them together and exist. Whatever that thing will become? That’s what I want my art to be. That’s what Kevin Abstract is.”Yet Abstract is also representative of a new era in music, one in which a man’s sexuality is just another fact about him instead of something that “others” or ostracizes him from mainstream music. That he’s part of a boy band, Brockhampton, and there’s no team of publicists exerting Herculean effort to cover up that he’s gay is an important harbinger. “Me telling that story [of coming out, in the song Miserable America] helps another kid. ’Cause no one has ever said that in a song, and I resonated with that,” he says. “That’s why it’s important for me to open up for bigger pop stars. ’Cause [kids] won’t hear my music otherwise. And for me to be onstage in front of that many kids and for them to be like, damn, I identify with this person – now they have a new hero that looks like them.”Onstage at the Roxy, Abstract is set to launch into American Boyfriend’s hazy indie rock title track, and he’s encouraging the emo, sweetly nerdy kids in the audience to slow dance. “No one here is judging you at all,” he insists. A few couples shyly pull each other close, and start to sway.