At 5ft 4in, I am too short to properly age. “Everyone in California is tall,” Andrew McGraw, an engineer at Burbank-based Applied Minds tells me with an apologetic look. I am backstage at the Genworth Aging Experience at the Liberty Science Center in a borrowed polyester track suit while McGraw and his fellow engineer at Applied Materials, Jake McKinnon, strap me into their team’s creation, an exoskeleton meant to simulate the effects of aging – everything from bad joints to cataracts.“We might look at creating gloves that that mimic age-related issues with dexterity in future versions of the suit,” Jennifer Rosenbaum, a Genworth representative tells me later. The suit, officially known as the Genworth R7Oi Aging Suit, and unofficially as “Fred,” is having its moment at the Liberty Science Center in New Jersey, where it is being used to teach kids how to develop empathy for the pains and hardships their grandparents suffer. “Fred” has already made the rounds with the adult crowd, sparking conversations at CES, the Consumer Electronics Show, and showing up in the classroom at the University of Southern California to help students in the Physiology of Aging class understand what patients feel. Companies have started to reach out, wanting to know if they can use the suit to teach their HR departments to really understand the challenges their aging workforce will face, says Rosenbaum, pointing out that there are around 75 million baby boomers in the US. Backstage McGraw and McKinnon pull the last of the many straps tight and release the full 40 lbs of the exoskeleton onto my frame. This can’t be good for my knees, I think, as I try shifting my weight while they put a heart sensor on my left pointer finger. As they adjust the helmet with its special headset and enormous headphones over my head, my entire world seems to shrink. With the headset on, I seem to be looking through a fisheye lens and suddenly have trouble judging distances.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bran Ferren, chief creative officer of Applied Minds, guides a volunteer wearing the Genworth R7Oi Aging Suit. Photograph: Patrick MacLeodMcGraw gives me his arm to lean on and slowly guides me out to where the audience – kids and their parents and grandparents – are waiting for the demonstration. The suit has not been activated yet and I already feel about 80, which is around the age it is intended to simulate. On the display stage, there are TV sets that allow the kids to see what I will see and headphones that allow them to hear what I will hear. My heart rate is also displayed on the monitor, so they can track what happens when I start facing simulated joint issues like arthritis.Once I creakily make it to the center of the stage, a Genworth brand ambassador with kind eyes, Candace Hammer, starts the demonstration. Within seconds, in addition to being strapped into the exoskeleton, my sight starts to cloud over as my entire field of vision rapidly shrinks to one tiny spot that I desperately cling to, moving my head from side to side so I can still see the whole room, a few inches at a time. That is what glaucoma is like, Hammer explains to the rapt kids, emphasizing why it is important to get regular vision tests. We go through a few more terrifying simulations, in which my vision and hearing distorts, including the maddening drone of tinnitus and the disorientation of aphasia. Then it’s time for the kicker: learning what it feels like to move with stiff, aging joints while losing muscle and gaining weight. Hammer instructs me to pretend I am pulling myself up a rope with my arms as I slowly start to feel my joints stiffen. The big round brakes placed at each of my joints make my arms feel like they weigh an extra 20 lbs each, like I am pretending to climb a rope with a bag of groceries in each hand. I silently thank my parents for the fact that I am too short and small for the shoulder joints of the suit to properly align and significantly slow down my ability to lift my newly stiff and barely bending elbows. When I’m 64, I’ll still be singing along | Rhiannon Lucy Cosslett To really bring the point home for the students, I am maneuvered onto a treadmill set in front of a monitor showing a serene beach scene. Despite the extra weight, walking doesn’t seem too terrible, and I get an awkward but steady pace going. Hammer then gleefully tells the kids they are going to now stiffen my hips and knees. Within seconds I lurch forward involuntarily, trying to keep my balance and move forward on hips that don’t want to move and knees that fight every attempt at bending. I hear the kids gasp and react as I desperately try to keep my pace going on the treadmill, which suddenly seems to be made of glue. It feels like minutes pass before Hammer announces that my heart rate is getting too high and I need to stop. Later, I ask her how far I got on the treadmill after my joints were stiffened. She looks at me sympathetically, before telling me I only managed 10 steps.Paul Hoffman, the president and CEO of Liberty Science Center, later tells me that adults often call their parents after these demonstrations. Aging is a hard conversation for children to have with their parents and grandparents and vice versa, he says. He adds that by creating an immersive experience, you get people interested in the topic and you can create empathy for people who are older and dealing with these issues.The suit is also a good demonstration of futuristic technology that might help us eventually combat aging. In 10 to 20 years, Hoffman hopes lightweight versions of exoskeletons that can be worn underneath clothing will be available to help stop falls and increase mobility. Baggage handlers in Tokyo already use a version of exoskeleton technology to help lift luggage without injury. One day, a similar suit might help people who are paralyzed regain some normal movement. “It gives a glimpse into the future,” Hoffman says.