Fresh from his holiday in Barbados, the chairman of the Environment Agency had little time to gather his things this morning before heading to meet flood victims in England’s sodden north.Sir Philip Dilley spent less than an hour with an aide collecting a few personal items from his flat in an Edwardian mansion block in Marylebone, London, amid fury that he had been sunning himself while thousands of Britons fought floods. Asked if he had had a good Christmas, the 60-year-old – who was described by the Press Association as noticeably tanned – dodged the question. Instead he told reporters he was on his way to visit Yorkshire and would be very happy to speak with people when he got there.A former executive chairman of the engineering consultancy Arup, Dilley now earns £100,000 a year for working two to three days a week with the government. Shortly after becoming chair in September, he promised to visit any serious flooding in the UK while he was at the helm.Asked if he should have visited the worst affected areas sooner, he said: “Well I’m going up there today, as you appreciate. My focus really is to go and see what’s happening, to see the good work that’s been going on but most importantly to see the communities who have been affected.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Environment Agency chairman, Sir Philip Dilley, leaves his flat in Marylebone, London, after arriving back in the country following a holiday in the Caribbean. Photograph: Yui Mok/PAHe insisted he had been “in very close contact” with senior EA staff throughout his break, spent at his holiday home. Pictures showed the property, near the five-star Sandy Lane resort, under blue skies and surrounded by verdant, tropical foliage.Dilley’s return to the UK comes after criticism over his decision to holiday in Barbados at a time when the country faces some of the worst floods it has experienced in decades. He had previously told MPs he would work “six days a week or seven” in times of crisis. But he was unrepentant. “Everybody can’t be everywhere at the same time. I think we’ve been very effective and efficient in what we’ve been doing. There’s obviously some lessons to learn,” he said.He added that his itinerary would “evolve” as the day went on. The Environment Agency has come under fire for initially refusing to comment on Dilley’s whereabouts, other than to say he was “at home with his family over Christmas”.On Tuesday it eventually circulated a statement admitting he was in Barbados, adding: “We are expecting him back in the UK in the next 24 hours and an early priority will be to visit those who have been affected by the flooding in the north of the country.”The agency also highlighted that Dilley visited Cumbria earlier in the month, in the aftermath of floods that affected the area following Storm Desmond. 