President Trump: Can He Really Win?9pm, Channel 4President Trump. President. Trump. Impossible to process as that phrase still is, the floss-haired one looks assured of the Republican nomination, which would put him just nine or 10 Hillary Clinton gaffes away from becoming CEO of Earth. Matt Frei investigates how, and if, Trump can be stopped. Why are his manifest weaknesses so tricky to exploit? Will his opponents see that his ability to communicate with the economically disenfranchised gives him great strength? Jack SealeHorizon: The Mystery of Dark Energy8pm, BBC2It sounds like something starring Vin Diesel. Or, as Stanford University’s Dr Risa Wechsler says: “It’s our name for that thing we don’t understand.” Yet dark energy has been causing conniptions in cosmologists for some time, by successfully appearing to troll Einstein’s general theory of relativity. Just what is this stuff causing the universe to expand at an accelerated rate? Has it something to do with quantum mechanics? Or is it just a “trick of the light”? A perplexed Horizon investigates. Ali CatterallSecret Britain9pm, BBC1“It’s easy to think Britain is a crowded place,” says presenter Ellie Harrison as she, Chris Hollins and Denise Lewis explore the spots on our often photogenic island where there are hardly any people at all. With parachuting and sheer rock-climbing in this first episode, the presenters don’t get an easy ride, but their adventurousness does allow us some delightful wallpaper for a Wednesday evening. The colour green features heavily throughout, but not in a way one could ever tire of. What a beautiful country. Julia RaesideStoryville: My Nazi Legacy9pm, BBC4Niklas Frank and Horst Von Wächter are both the sons of high-ranking Nazis who presided over terrible crimes against humanity, casting shadows of deep shame in which their children have been forced to dwell. While one has responded with outright condemnation, the other is in partial denial. International lawyer Philippe Sands meets and questions both in this remarkable documentary. Considering that their fathers were responsible for the murder of many of his Jewish family, he maintains a remarkably even-tempered tone. David StubbsRaised By Wolves10pm, Channel 4There’s a car-boot sale looming, and Della’s having a clearout of the kids’ toys. It’s a serious business and she has even had the car washed for the occasion. Germaine has a chance to try out her contouring skills when she is forced to help out her cousin (“A right little Alan Sugar”) on the face-painting stall. Grampy lets out “35 years of pain” in a Portaloo after meeting a woman who unlocks his mojo. And Yoko gets in touch with her anger with the help of a big stick while on traffic duty in the car park. Great fun. Hannah VerdierDynamo: Live At The O27.30pm, WA heavily promoted live stage show by the wizard of West Yorkshire, as he welcomes a crowd of 10,000 to witness the latest performance of his Seeing Is Believing tour. The PR blurb for the show proclaims Dynamo as the first magician in history to headline the O2, a boast that becomes slightly less impressive when you remember that the venue only opened in 2007. If nothing else, tune in on the off-chance of an impromptu tribute to the recently departed Paul Daniels. Dynamo’s Bunco Booth, anyone? Mark Gibbings-JonesHappyish10pm, Sky AtlanticAdvertising executive Thom Payne (Steve Coogan) seems to have a comfortable life. But as both the title and Payne’s name – which calls forth images of rebellion – suggest, he’s not content. At 44, Payne is working for a younger boss, hates an emerging world of social media he can’t be bothered to understand, and has hit a midlife crisis. Coogan (in a part originally intended for Philip Seymour Hoffman) is usually worth watching, but be warned, this Showtime satire was swiftly cancelled Stateside. Jonathan Wright*Today’s best live sport• T20 World Cup Cricket: Semi-finals. The opening semi in the women’s tournament with the first men’s semi to follow at 2pm. 10am, Sky Sports 2• Cycling: The Three Days Of De Panne The second stage of the event from Belgium. 1.45pm, Eurosport 2• League One football: Southend United v Sheffield United. All the action from Roots Hall. 7.30pm, Sky Sports 1• Speedway: Belle Vue Aces v Poole Pirates Action from Manchester. 7.30pm, Sky Sports 3Film ChoiceLincoln(Steven Spielberg, 2012) 9pm, Film4Spielberg’s monumental portrait of Abraham Lincoln focuses on a few crucial weeks in early 1865, and the struggle to finally abolish slavery. Anchoring this weighty but always compelling drama is the Mount Rushmore-sized performance of Daniel Day Lewis, who embodies the great man from twinkling teller of anecdotes to the greatest of statesmen. Paul HowlettSnake Eyes(Brian De Palma, 1998) 11.45pm, BBC1The bravura opening, a single 12-minute take in which we follow Nicolas Cage’s hustler-cum-cop Santoro going about his dodgy business in an Atlantic City sports stadium before a big fight, is a homage to De Palma’s beloved Hitchcock, and sets the scene for a gripping thriller. The champ takes a dive and a political bigwig is shot: are the two events linked? Santoro starts to sift the evidence in a just-about-credible yarn. PH