The wage freeze we are living through is the longest since Victorian times. The public sector pay cap means that many employees entered 2017 facing cuts to real pay. Nurses, police officers, ambulance drivers and firefighters are all earning less than they did five years ago. And though the gender pay gap for men and women in their 20s has narrowed to 5%, overall women still earn an average of 18% less.Treated like dirt, these teaching assistants have become the lions of Durham | Aditya Chakrabortty So how can the powerless get their voices heard? Once trade unions were the obvious answer, but 55% of today’s workforce in Britain has never been in a union. Break this down by age, and the picture is even starker. Of those aged 16 to 24, fewer than 10% are unionised; and for 25- to 35-year-olds, the robust and energetic drivers of the economy, it’s only one in five. Although films such as Made in Dagenham, about the 1968 strike by female workers at Ford’s Dagenham car plant, reminded us of women’s role in union history, media coverage more often harks back to the 1970s stereotype of blokes, beer and sandwiches. And the continuing dispute between Southern rail and the unions, which flared up with another strike on Wednesday, does little to dispel this myth.But something significant has changed: contrary to stereotypes, union membership among women is now higher than it is for men. The average member today is a woman in her 40s in the public sector. Meanwhile, last May’s survey of trade union membership by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills showed growth in both public and private sector membership. The survey also found that the union wage premium – the gap between the hourly earnings of union members and non-members – was 16% in the public sector and 7% in the private sector.Many unions are working hard to adapt to changes in the economy and the structure of employment. But they are crucial in our age of zero-hours and sessional contracts, tribunal fees and no effective civil legal aid for male and female workers in employment disputes. An age in which the worst workplaces resemble totalitarian regimes where employees are told how to dress, who they are allowed to talk to, and when to use the toilet – and are monitored by robots or wearable tracker devices such as sociometric badges.Despite the rise of the “gig economy” and job insecurity, and the ideological onslaught against workers’ rights in the government’s Trade Union Act 2016, there have been a number of recent practical victories by unions over the taxi app Uber, the food delivery empire Deliveroo and the delivery firm CitySprint. Similar cases against the courier companies Addison Lee, eCourier and Excel will follow this year.Democracy is not just about voting in a general election every four or five years. As one senior national union organiser described it, we have lurched into a situation where clocking into work involves clocking out of liberal western democracy. A healthy employment relationship should not involve giving up our rights as citizens within working hours. Being closely timed, micro-monitored and controlled are invasions of human dignity.The GMB organiser Nadine Houghton, a rising star among women trade unionists, wrote recently that working-class women were the unsung heroes of 2016. Teaching assistants in Derby and Durham, 95% of whom are female, took action against pay cuts of up to 25%. Female hospital workers, cleaners, hostesses and catering staff took on the multinational private contractor Aramark in the South London and Maudsley NHS Trust. Two Ecuadorian cleaners, members of the United Women of the World Union, launched the campaign against Philip Green’s Topshop for a living wage.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Striking machinists at Ford Dagenham’s car plant in June 1968 Photograph: Bob Aylott/Getty ImagesAnd unions are now taking the concerns of their women members on board more than ever. The TUC leader, Frances O’Grady, champions its work on equalities issues. It is also developing a range of policy and campaign work in previously neglected areas, such as tackling discrimination against older women. A recent TUC seminar on the menopause was packed out, and attended by male health and safety officers from the rail and fire brigade unions. Aslef, the train drivers’ union, has negotiated a menopause workplace agreement, and Wales TUC has done a survey on this issue. Work on abortion rights, sexual harassment and violence against women continues to be a priority.Although most unions are still led by men, there are a number of impressive women deputies; moreover, female trade unionists took Labour seats in parliament in 2015, and have had jobs in Jeremy Corbyn’s shadow cabinet. For example, Angela Rayner, the shadow education minister, was a care worker from Stockport who became a rep and then a senior steward for Unison. Kate Osamor, the shadow international development secretary, and Rachael Maskell, until her recent resignation the shadow environment secretary, both entered politics via Unite.We can’t let Silicon Valley companies and their spin undermine workers’ rights | Jason Moyer-Lee Theresa May pays lip service to fair play on equal pay; but her government is doing nothing to alleviate the austerity that hits women hardest, and will hit harder still if it fails to protect employment rights when we leave the EU. Commenting on the government’s response this week to the women and equality select committee’s report on the gender pay gap, O’Grady called on ministers to “help parents to share out caring responsibilities more equally and challenge workplace discrimination full on”.Next month’s TUC Women’s Conference begins on International Women’s Day, which emerged over a century ago directly out of the activism of women in the labour movement, demanding better pay and conditions as well as the vote. Today equal pay and the gender pay gap are increasingly at the forefront of trade union campaigning. By finding new ways to support its female members, the movement is growing anew from some of its strongest roots.