I know a seven-year-old from Brooklyn who has had an “I ❤ KALE” pendant since she was a toddler (because she sincerely always has loved it), which means kale was a thing at least two years before Beyoncé danced in a Kale sweatshirt in 2014. Which is to say that we are laughably late to the party: how is it that we haven’t we done a kale‑themed swap until now?I’m glad we don’t have to treat it as a hot new craze, though. For me, it is the Bubba Gump shrimp of the cabbage patch: delicious raw, steamed, braised, roasted, baked and dehydrated to a crisp. It is vitamin- and mineral-rich, as nutritionally reliable as it is environmentally and ethically sound, and flavour-wise it can go with most things, the bolder the better.Bring on the end of kale as a trendy foodstuff, so we can just enjoy it for what it is: an excellent go-to staple always to have in your veg drawer.Warm kale and nduja saladThe unexpected delight: I’m not particularly into beer or spicy pork, but, damn, this was good. And it really is down to Melissa Cole’s very specific and particular ingredients. Kale loves both salt and spice, as well as something creamy. This brings it everything.Serves 28 sun-dried tomatoes in olive oil, chopped Juice of ½ lemon1 red onion, halved lengthways and peeled, root trimmed but left intact150g nduja (a kind of Italian spreadable pork and pepper salumi) 2 tbsp sunflower seeds, toasted125g pre-cooked spelt or mixed grains1 bottle spicy, but not bitter ale (try Burning Sky Saison à la Provision or similar)50g goat’s milk yoghurt500g whole-leaf kale1 Put two serving bowls and a ramekin in the oven to warm.2 Mix a little of the oil from the sun-dried tomatoes with the lemon juice to taste, then set aside.3 Put a dry frying pan on the heat. Slice the onion halves into 2cm-thick wedges. When your pan is hot, add the onions and cook until they start to just blacken. Turn them over, cook the other side and set aside.4 Wipe your frying pan out with a damp piece of kitchen towel and return to the heat. Take walnut-sized lumps of nduja and fry until they get a light crust on them, then add them to the onions.5 Wipe out the pan again with some kitchen towel. Add your sunflower seeds, toast lightly on both sides, watching like a hawk or they’ll easily burn. When light gold, pop them in the warmed ramekin.6 Warm your spelt through in a pan, along with a small splash of beer. Stir in the goat’s milk yoghurt, then add another splash of beer and your kale, stir through the spelt, cover and cook for about 3 minutes.7 In the meantime, take everything out of the oven. When the kale is cooked to your liking, give the mix a good stir and divide between the warmed bowls. Add your nduja, onions and sun-dried tomatoes, dress with the oil and lemon mix, then toss lightly.8 Check the seasoning and adjust accordingly, sprinkle with sunflower seeds and serve with the rest of your beer on the side.Kale and wild mushroom lasagneThe veg duo in Jake Barwood’s bake is a winner, but it was a little too dry for my liking, so I’ve tripled the amount of bechamel and ramped up the cheese and mustard quotients too.Serves 4-68 banana shallotsSalt and black pepperOlive oil150g butter150g plain white flour1 litre semi-skimmed milk2 tsp wholegrain mustard300g mature cheddar, grated, plus more to garnish4 garlic cloves, chopped 750g assorted wild mushroomsA drop of balsamic vinegarA sprinkle of fresh thyme500g kale, stalks removed, roughly choppedA pack of lasagne sheetsBreadcrumbs, to garnish1 Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4. Peel and cut 4 of the shallots in half lengthways, and put them on a baking tray. Season with salt and black pepper, drizzle with olive oil and bake until softened.2 Meanwhile, heat the butter in a pan and add the flour. Stir with a spatula until golden, then slowly pour in a third of the milk, stirring all the while to create a smooth white sauce. Add a couple of teaspoons of wholegrain mustard and season well with salt and coarsely ground black pepper. Add enough milk to make a thick bechamel, bring almost to the boil, then simmer until smooth. Stir in the cheddar, then remove from the heat and set aside.Readers’ recipe swap: Cinnamon | Dale Berning-Sawa 3 Dice the leftover shallots and sweat in a frying pan with the garlic over a medium heat. Roughly chop the mushrooms and add them to the pan. Season with salt and black pepper, then add a touch of balsamic vinegar and some fresh thyme. Cook the mushrooms until golden.4 Meanwhile, put the kale in a large saucepan and cover with boiling water from the kettle. Put a lid on and leave for 2 minutes to soften. Drain the liquid using a colander, then put the kale back in the pan. Mix in two ladles of bechamel to coat the kale.5 To assemble, spread a third of the remaining bechamel over the bottom of a deep baking tray, then put half of the mushrooms on top, followed by half of the kale. Level the mix out and cover with a layer of lasagne sheets. Add another third of the bechamel, followed by the remaining mushrooms and kale. Cover with a second layer of pasta, then top with the remaining bechamel and smooth it out. Sprinkle with the extra grated cheddar and the breadcrumbs. Put the cooked shallot halves on top, then bake for 40 minutes, or until it has turned crispy on top.Kale and chickpea soup with chilli, garlic and gingerDetoutcoeurLimousin’s bowlful is the perfect winter soup. The aromatics conspire with the kale to make it fresh and light, warm and filling.Serves 4-61 tbsp extra virgin olive oil2 tsp fennel seeds1-2 tsp chilli flakes3-4 garlic cloves, crushed1 tbsp grated ginger200g chopped tomatoes (fresh or tinned)Zest of ½ lemon500g cooked/tinned chickpeas (drained weight)250g kale, shredded50g orzo pasta (or other small pasta shape)1 litre vegetable/chicken stockSalt and black pepper To serveLemon zestExtra virgin olive oil1 Heat the oil in a large saucepan, add the fennel seeds, chilli flakes, garlic and ginger, then cook gently for a few minutes until fragrant.2 Add the chopped tomatoes and the zest of half a lemon, then continue to cook for a few minutes, until the tomatoes have softened.3 Add the chickpeas, kale and orzo pasta, stir, then pour in your preferred stock. Bring to the boil, then reduce the heat and simmer until the kale and pasta are cooked. Check for seasoning, adding salt and black pepper to taste.4 To serve, sprinkle with fresh lemon zest and drizzle with olive oil.Kale, apple and cheddar flapjacksAnna Thomson recently ordered 10kg of oats instead of her standard 3kg. Since then, she has been experimenting with flapjacks like never before. This savoury batch is excellent. Apple and strong, salty cheese are two things the lacy leaves will always work with.Makes 16-20 2 handfuls of kale½ tsp salt40ml olive oil, plus 1 tbsp for the marinade3 garlic cloves, minced1 tbsp honey1 small onion, diced225g oats1 dessert apple, diced1 carrot, grated150g strong cheddar, grated2 eggs20g chopped walnuts (optional)1 Tear the kale off the stems and chop. Put in a bowl with ½ tsp salt, 1 tbsp oil, 1 minced garlic clove and the honey. Massage the kale with the marinade and leave for 15 minutes to wilt.2 Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4. Heat the remaining oil in a pan. Gently fry the onion for 5 minutes, or until soft. Turn off the heat, add the marinated kale and all the remaining ingredients, reserving 50g of cheese, and mix well. Season to taste.3 Press into a prepared baking tin, sprinkle with the remaining cheese and bake for 20-30 minutes, or until golden.Take part in our next theme, CRANBERRIES! Three easy ways:Upload: theguardian.com/witness;email: recipes@theguardian.com; Instagram @guardian_cook by noon on Wednesday 23 Nov. Selected recipes will appear in Cook and online on 3 Dec.