Julie Koh was in the thick of corporate law, specialising in intellectual property, when she decided to quit and write fiction instead. Her bold left turn paid off handsomely. The Australian writer’s new work, Portable Curiosities, is a collection of whip-smart satirical tales that are as painfully funny as they are uncomfortably timely.Everything is up for grabs in these stories: race, gender, weight loss, even satire itself. The Fantastic Breasts is a pointed essay-style piece about objectification; Cream Reaper follows foodie culture to murderous extremes; and The Sister Company skewers modern therapy. Pitting bureaucratic villagers against exiled musicians, Inquiry Regarding the Recent Goings-On in the Wood is a scathing take on how little the arts are valued by the Australian government.That was the first story Koh wrote after shifting in style from what she calls “kitchen sink, white middle-class stories” in a more realist vein. Encouraged by a creative writing teacher to try magic realism, she came up with that and couldn’t get it published. Luckily, she persisted. “After that I tried to make everything more readable,” she recalls.Literati cities: just the spot for networking, less so for writing a great novel Koh, 32, was born to Chinese-Malaysian parents and grew up in the Sydney suburb of Concord West. She now works from home as well as in a studio space in Marrickville, right under the flight path. “It’s very status-conscious,” Koh says of Sydney. “It’s a difficult city [financially] and I think culturally it’s not very good for writers. But if you’re writing from a middle-class perspective and you’re writing a bit of satire, it’s beneficial to be amongst it – to be in a liberal seat.”In a recent piece for culture publication Kill Your Darlings, Koh reacted with some discomfort to being counted as part of a new wave of satirists in Australian literary fiction. ( I had no idea about the existence of a new wave,” she wrote. “How did I even get into a wave? I’m not a beach person.”) While she readily identifies with Aussie writers like Eric Yoshiaki Dando and Tom Cho, she also takes inspiration from a much wider international field, citing Gabriel García Márquez, Italo Calvino, Donald Barthelme and Haruki Murakami. “I feel like I’m difficult to categorise, but other people find [it] quite easy,” she says.Koh’s stories often start with an absurd comic premise but wind up at something darker and frighteningly plausible. (Picture a funnier Black Mirror.) Poking fun at the current surge in themed cafes, Slow Death in Cat Cafe also nods to the refugee crisis and the kind of nationalism that fuelled Brexit. (There are also shades of the 2014 siege at a Lindt cafe in Sydney, which Koh says wasn’t intentional.) In The Three-Dimensional Yellow Man, she mocks the stereotyping of Asian people in the entertainment industry and beyond, lamenting that Pauline Hanson’s return to politics makes the topic more pertinent than it should be: “I thought [it] was [more] about the history of Australia.”Koh says her stories are essentially about “the entrapment of the individual in social structures”. Absent from Portable Curiosities but featured in 2015’s Best Australian Stories anthology, The Level Playing Field deals most directly with the tension between art and commerce. Meanwhile, her 2015 mini-collection Capital Misfits savages neoliberal economics. Women and Melbourne writers dominate Miles Franklin 2016 shortlist She’s now finishing up the first draft of a characteristically quirky debut novel. “It’s got things like drones and botanical illustrations,” she says. Koh observes that many years of penning dry legal essays and documents has made her style much more straightforward than flowery. “It can put people off because it’s not very descriptive,” she says. Her work also stands apart from the popular online satire of The Onion or The Shovel. “Mine is a little more literary,” she says.  With Portable Curiosities Koh has indeed found her own voice. It’s perfect for our busy, scary times: easily digestible and, for all its madcap imagination, utterly true. • Portable Curiosities by Julie Koh is out now through University of Queensland Press