My father, John Hull, went blind in 1980, when I was seven. He had lost his sight gradually, as a result – initially – of cataracts, then later of a detached retina which had been repeatedly operated on. The last time I remember him being able to see me, we were at the pedestrian crossing by the University of Birmingham (where he was a lecturer). I asked if he could still see me and he stopped to look at me carefully for a while, before replying, “Well, I can tell you are wearing a red dress.” I remember feeling pleased with myself and it is perhaps no coincidence that I went on to get married in a red dress: subconsciously, red feels like a colour to be both noticed and loved in.Dad lost most of the rest of his light sensation around the time my half-brother Tom was born. Although I don’t remember his birth, I remember Dad taking me to our local Chinese restaurant for a celebratory meal: a tradition we honoured in some form or another when each of my other siblings – Lizzie, Gaby and Josh – was born.My mother and he had separated when I was three and in those early years Dad and I developed a close, almost conspiratorial bond. We spent weekends playing long games of Risk in B&Bs and drinking fizzy pop out of the toothbrush mug; travelling around Birmingham on the buses (when it was 2p a ticket!) and stopping every time we passed a playground.I moved to Dorset with my mother and stepfather when I was six and, despite his sight loss, Dad would come halfway – sometimes all the way – on the train to collect me for the weekend. We wrote silly poems on paper plates we had stolen from the buffet car.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Imogen and her father, John Hull, before he lost his sight.Over the years, being his “human guide dog” (Dad had chronic asthma and was very allergic to dogs, so a real one was out of the question) became more socially nuanced. I was lucky enough to accompany him around the world – to America, South Korea, Sicily, Zurich – to conferences and speaking engagements.Dad didn’t need my assistance in his working world – he was by now a professor of religious education – but social events were more of a challenge. He’d take my elbow and I’d help him to mingle. When he wanted to talk to someone new, he would pinch me and I would cast around the room to catch someone’s eye and move us on. Watching the film has been emotional – it is Dad’s voice, soft and wise, with hints of his Australian homeland Dad used to jokingly tweak his children’s ears so that when we yelped he could work out who was who. Yet he always created special one-to-one times with each of us – making up endless bedtime stories and, as we got older, drinking whisky in his study (which had a special roof to maximise his favourite sound of falling rain) … listening to comedy or music, reading poetry or trying to decipher the communist manifesto.This all sounds fairly idyllic, yet, looking back on it now as an adult, I realise just how much Dad was battling with the emotional tsunami from his catastrophic loss. A few years after he lost his sight, he started to keep an audio diary. He made 16 hours of recordings, in which he analysed and reflected on the new world of darkness into which he had been thrust. These recordings now form the soundtrack of a documentary film, Notes on Blindness by Pete Middleton and James Spinney, recently released alongside a cutting-edge virtual reality project that immerses you in a world without sight.Dad celebrated his 80th birthday in April 2015. He was on great form on a family holiday a few months later in July, but he became unusually disorientated the night he got back home, fell heavily down the stairs and died suddenly in hospital as a result of pneumonia a few days later. Filming had just begun the week before.Watching the film has been, inevitably, an emotional experience, not least because it is Dad’s voice, soft and wise with hints of his Australian homeland, against which the actor Dan Renton Skinner lip-synchs. It is deeply moving hearing him talk now – as if from the grave – about a Christmas Day when he felt so frustrated and cut-off from his family that he had to go into the office to escape.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   John Hull, Imogen’s father, in later life.I was struck by his description of our family holiday to meet his parents and siblings in Australia. I remember him having terrible asthma on that trip and wondering if he could possibly survive it, but I had no idea of the emotional panic he was experiencing at the time. In the film, he reflects that he naively thought Australia would be just as he remembered but, “there was nothing there” … just darkness and voices.I marvel now at how he learned to anchor himself – physically and mentally – in that suffocating darkness. I hear him describe feeling “useless” as a parent trying to find one of us, screaming after an accident. With two young boys of my own, I can only begin to imagine what that practical “uselessness” and the loss of all those visual cues would have meant to him. It must have felt as though he was living alongside us in another world.By the end of the film, he has reached the conclusion that his blindness is a gift. “Not a gift I want or one that I want my children to have … But it is nevertheless a gift. So the question now becomes not, ‘Why me?’ but ‘What should I do with it?’”Apparently, Dad described me as a bridge between his blind and sighted lives. I remember he used to say of sighted people that sometimes we seemed all-powerful – yet at other times so superficial, fussing about the design of curtains or something, which had little meaning to him.I sometimes worry that, in our last decade together, when Dad often seemed to withdraw into his world of thought, I was too practical – multi-tasking raising children and building my career – to meet him in the rain for poetry and whisky.But humour was always the bridge between those two worlds. I have a photo of him on my bookshelf, blowing a raspberry, wearing a Stetson and sticking two fingers up. That is how I want to remember him, laughing raucously and irreverently. He was also a passionate believer in and campaigner for social justice – he was arrested for the first time in his 70s, blocking the entrance to the Faslane base, where Trident was being built. If his blindness was indeed a gift, it did, by his own admission, give him – a middle-class, white, male professor – first-hand experience of marginalisation and humility.It is hard not to be inspired by my father and even, strangely, by his death. His death is not a gift I want, but it is nevertheless, at some level, a gift.The only question now is not, “why me?”, but rather, “what should I do with it?”• Notes on Blindness is on release in independent cinemas and on DVD. curzonartificialeye.com/notes-on-blindness 