MasterChef8pm, BBC1Telly’s comfort-food staple returns with John Torode and Gregg Wallace scaring amateur chefs. Five hopefuls cook their “calling card”, then choose between pigeon and lemon as their key ingredient. The contestants range from Julie, who says she just throws things together, to Chris, who’s daring enough to make Indian sushi. As one is sent home, the others must cook for the final three from last year. There’s at least one panicker as they scramble for success. Continues tomorrow. Hannah VerdierPanorama: Inside Europe’s Terror Attacks9pm, BBC1The horror in Paris last year has, with sad inevitability, been co-opted by people pushing their own agendas: to stay safe, we should launch a bombing campaign, or leave the EU. This investigation, made immeasurably more poignant by the attacks in Brussels yesterday, tries to shed light on the ongoing threat to Europe. How many organised cells, and how many lone attackers, are likely to be operating? Jack SealeEmployable Me9pm, BBC2Some unemployed people discover their abilities count for nothing when coupled with a neurological condition. This new series follows some such potential employees, starting tonight with Paul, whose Tourette tics lead to unwittingly self-destructive outbursts, and Brett, whose autism limits his ability to express himself verbally. For humans with any amount of compassion (Atos employees need not apply), this is an illuminating and heartening opening episode. Mark Gibbings-JonesGrantchester9pm, ITVThe contradictions of being priest and part-time plod come to the fore tonight as the trial of Gary Bell, arrested in episode one for his part in the death of a pregnant teen, approaches. Sidney thinks the death was accidental; Geordie thinks Bell is a murderer and deserves to be hanged. This disagreement feeds into another case, which begins when Sidney is called on to perform an exorcism. Following an uneven start to series two, this police procedural is getting better by the week. Jonathan WrightChef vs Science: the Ultimate Kitchen Challenge9pm, BBC4“I’m going to use science to try to cook better than Marcus,” says Mark Miodownik, a scientist at University College London who is taking on Michelin-starred Marcus Wareing in a pointless but fun contest. Miodownik says he understands cooking at an atomic level and claims his hard facts will trump Wareing’s creativity. He’s not a million miles from Heston Blumenthal and his centrifugal approach to flavour. Of course, it has to be a challenge, because it’s TV – but who cares? Julia RaesideJane the Virgin7.30pm, E4The telenovela-inspired US dramedy kicks off its second run in brilliantly twisty fashion. Jane and Rafael are trying to locate their baby, who was abducted by Sin Rostro (AKA Rafael’s former stepmother) in the closing moments of series one. Soon enough, Jane’s detective ex Michael has stepped in to help them, but will he comply with the ransom demands? Elsewhere, Petra hunts down Rafael’s final sperm sample, and Jane’s dad, Rogelio, declares himself “#cursed” when a retweet brings unwanted attention to the family. Hannah J DaviesMatrioshki10pm, Sky ArtsThe opening episode of the second series of this bleak, morally enraging yet extraordinarily watchable Flemish drama sees two of the deeply unlovable Belgian sex-trafficking protagonists out of jail and tracking down their third partner in Thailand, where he’s disappeared with the money they made. It’s here that a new front opens up, with our sympathies taken up by one luckless Thai girl, sold into an intolerable life of prostitution by her awful mother. You want bad things to happen to everyone but her. David StubbsFilm choiceCatch Me Daddy11.15pm, Film4The Yorkshire moors are the evocative setting for this disturbing thriller about a young Pakistani girl on the run from her family. Sabeena Jameen Ahmed stars. Paul HowlettToday’s best live sport• T20 World Cup cricket: England v Afghanistan. Followed by India taking on Bangladesh in the lunchtime game. 9am, Sky Sports 2• WTA tennis: Miami Open. The first round from Florida. 3pm, BT Sport 1• Champions League women’s football: Wolfsburg v Brescia. From the AOK Stadion in Germany. 4.45pm, Eurosport 1• Golf: Match Play Championship. Coverage from Austin Country Club in Texas. 6pm, Sky Sports 4