At a time when Chicano culture is particularly vulnerable to both systemic and personal racism, visual culture can play a key role in spreading important stories. But now might be the most important time to give those stories nuance – to make sure that they reflect the diversity of a community that often gets suffocated with generalizations and racist stereotypes.'A time for guerrilla DIY': how the Mexico-US border became a hub for protest art Enter Lowriders, a new film directed by Ricardo de Montreuil set in the predominantly Mexican American neighborhood of Boyle Heights, Los Angeles starring Gabriel Chavarria, Demián Bichir, Theo Rossi and Eva Longoria. It’s the story of young Danny (Chavarria), who would rather be making street art than working on lowriders (cars that are customized to allow the chassis to be lowered) like his dad (or arguing with his brother, who just got out of jail).   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Any depiction of Boyle Heights culture in mainstream cinema is a welcome one, especially to viewers who don’t often see faces that reflect their own heritage on the big screen. But a few key elements still put the movie in danger of propagating cliches. For example, there’s the curious white girl — Lorelai, played by Melissa Benoist — who gets into a lowrider to experience it for herself as Danny tells her “I don’t think you’re ready.” The lowrider starts bouncing and Lorelai squeals in fear and delight. Then, naturally, the cops show up with the whoop of a siren. It’s a clear scene of exoticization, of the outsider coming into a “strange world” and feeling thrilled at discovering it.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Some parts of the trailer’s voiceover also seem confusing to someone who might actually live in the Boyle Heights area. Danny basically sounds like he’s trying to dispel any stereotypes that non-residents might have, and yet it feels forced: “Me and my homies, we’ve never been to Mexico. And no, our Spanish ain’t perfect. But you could find us partying with the hipsters in Echo Park, chilling at the skate park in Venice or doing karaoke in K-Town. But for kids like me, sometimes we do end up the night at Taco Zone. Yeah, we eat tacos. Why not, right?”That gets to the crux of it: this is a movie made for outsiders. And those outsiders might not actually get the nuances of the story. So Danny needs to explain that he hangs out in plenty of areas in the city; and yes, he eats tacos. Any other questions? Danny is trying to fight through his family’s past to make his own narrative, but that history is rife with stereotypes. While some viewers might relate to the story, others might see it as affirmation that all Boyle Heights stories are the same. That’s far from the case. Los Angeles is an especially vibrant example of that, with many institutions highlighting the importance of Chicano culture in relation to the city’s history. Yes, lowriders are often a part of that story; but so many other facets of Chicano culture, particularly how it shaped the city, often go untold. Los Angeles through seven decades of vibrant youth culture – in pictures The recent exhibition Tastemakers & Earthshakers: Notes from Los Angeles Youth Culture, 1943-2016 at the Vincent Price Art Museum took a historical look at young Angelenos. VPAM Director Pilar Tompkins Rivas sees institutions as essential to uncovering Chicano history and amplifying artistic voices – not just in exhibitions dedicated to Chicano artists, but in shows and art history at large.“That’s something that I really hope – that it becomes normalized, that it becomes something that doesn’t have to be considered ‘the other’ but that it’s actually considered integral and part of a conversation that’s telling the full story about Los Angeles and Southern California,” says Rivas. There are a few current shows that Angelenos can see in order to discover more about both contemporary art-making and iconic artists who have shaped Chicano visual culture. Recently, photographer Star Montana premiered a solo show titled I Dream of Los Angeles at Beta Main in downtown LA. The portraits also focused on the neighborhoods of east and south LA, but with much of the nuance that Lowriders seems to miss. The wall text accompanying each piece goes into the gritty personal history of the subjects when needed. There are definitely stories of gang activity and police violence but Montana ultimately lets the subjects tell the stories they want. She doesn’t sacrifice the important of their cultural heritage but through her photos, LA is diverse and complex.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Frank Romero with his freeway mural Photograph: Courtesy of the Oscar R Castillo Photographic ArchivesAt the Museum of Latin American Art in Long Beach, Dreamland: A Frank Romero Retrospective is currently on display and marks the first solo exhibition of a Chicano artist at the museum. It was only in 2015 that MOLAA decided to start displaying Chicano artists instead of just artists from Latin America. This was an especially significant decision considering the fact that so much of LA culture is tied to Chicano culture and visual language. In an email to The Guardian, MOLAA’s curator of exhibition Edward Hayes explains that Romero has played a crucial role in creating a “visual repertoire of LA Chicano culture”. Romero was part of the Los Four art collective, which made history with a 1974 show at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. The show at MOLAA focuses on the “social legacy of Chicano art and the Chicano movement”.Hayes feels there’s a “a lot of ground to cover” when it comes to exploring “Latin American art and its diasporic branches”, but that programming and exhibitions can be a powerful way to amplify the voices and history of Chicano culture. There are other mediums to tell these stories, too. At Printed Matter’s LA Art Book Fair an exhibit looked at the impact of Teen Angels, a zine started by a white man which nevertheless captured the Chicano culture of the 1980s and 1990s. On 20 May, the first annual East LA Comic Con – founded by Nostalgic Books and Comics owner Peter J Mellini – will take place at El Gallo Plaza. More than 1,400 people have RSVP-d on Facebook, and another 6,400 marked themselves as interested. Mellini told LA Weekly that a lot of people were excited to see the event created and that “a lot of people are surprised, too, because they didn’t expect it”.And yet, institutional support might prove one of the most powerful ways to change the way that Chicano culture and visual production is viewed by audiences at large. The Getty’s initiative Pacific Standard Time: LA/LA links Latin America and Los Angeles with exhibitions across all of Southern California. Rivas hopes that it will serve as a spark for institutions that normally don’t consider the impact of Chicano art. She sees it as the start of more shows that will highlight underexposed narratives. Lowriders tells one story – but it’s only scraping the surface. “There isn’t one story to tell,” says Rivas. “And I think that sometimes there’s a thing that gets that perhaps institutions feel that they’ve done an exhibition on Chicano or Latino art then they’ve checked off a box and they don’t have to do one for another ten years. But instead of really digging into that story the same as any other group or any other conversation, it’s part of American history, it’s part of the Latin American diaspora, it should be at the center of any conversation about art – period.” 