What inspired you to live more sustainably, and write about it?　I’ve always been interested in the environment and sustainable living. I have a degree in environmental geography and a masters in environmental sustainability, and I’ve been lucky enough to work in the environmental sector since graduating, so it really is a long running interest. There was no real pivotal moment for me. I decided to start writing about living more sustainably at the start of last year. My partner and I have always lived our lives fairly sustainably but we felt we could do a bit more. We’d recently had a baby and we started to think more and more about environmentalism and consumerism. I started looking around the internet for blogs to draw inspiration from but at the time I couldn’t find anything that I felt I could relate to. A lot of the (mostly American) sites I came across at that time inadvertently bolstered some of the negative stereotypes that people often have of environmentalists – things like "yoghurt knitters" or "lentil weavers" – so I decided to start my own blog to show that sustainable living could be stylish and relevant to everyone’s lives, whether you identified as an environmentalist or not.Since then, I’ve found many great environmental blogs that don’t perpetuate the common negative environmental stereotypes, and it’s great to see so many relatable blogs out there coming to the fore.What changes have you made to live a greener lifestyle?We’ve made more of an effort to reduce our food waste, and I regularly share the tips I’ve found on my blog. I’ve also got really into foraging in this past year, and often share recipes that feature my foraged finds to encourage others to get out there and forage. The last recipe I shared was nettle pesto, which was surprisingly tasty! I wouldn’t say we do anything particularly unusual in our lives – we just go about living a normal life as sustainably as we can, and I think the blog reflects that. It’s all about simple, achievable and affordable things that anyone can do to lead a greener life, so some of the more "out-there" ways to live a greener life, such as turning faeces into power, probably wouldn’t feature too heavily on the blog. I guess some might say that the fact that we live in a small, rural village but don’t have a car is quite unusual – but that’s probably as unusual as it gets around here! What have you learned along the way?There honestly isn’t a day that goes by without learning something new. Although I have an academic background in sustainability, my career has mainly focused on sustainable transport so by writing the blog I’m learning more and more about all facets of sustainable living. The world of ethical fashion is a relatively new one to me, and a topic my readers tell me they enjoy reading about it most on the blog, so that has been a real eye-opener. My new interest in foraging has also completely changed how I look at the world. Instead of seeing plants, weeds or trees I now see a potential meal. How has your family reacted to your decision?Because it’s been such a long standing focus of my life the blog didn’t come as much of a surprise to my family, and they all have been incredibly supportive of it. The only real area of our lives which was met with some friction was our decision to go vegetarian. Now and again the issue of vegetarianism is raised with us, predominantly out of concern for our health. I think there’s quite a common misconception that vegetarians are quite sickly, but thankfully we’ve found that these fears are completely unjustified. I’d say though that in every other area of our lives we’re only ever supported and encouraged.What encourages you to keep living sustainably?As well as knowing that we’re helping the environment, I’ve found that living more sustainably saves us money. We used washable nappies on our daughter and I calculated that we’d saved a small fortune on disposable nappies. The blog has also attracted such a like-minded community of supportive readers. When they tell me that the blog or a particular post has helped them to live a bit more sustainably it’s really motivational and spurs me on that bit more.Wendy blogs here and tweets here. If you would like your green or sustainable blog to be featured in Grassroots, send us an email to livebetterchallenge@theguardian.com.Interested in finding out more about how you can live better? Take a look at this month's Live Better challenge here.The Live Better Challenge is funded by Unilever; its focus is sustainable living. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out more here.