The supposed demise of grassroots music venues is nothing new; in recent years, some of the best British venues have been at the behest of a developer’s boot or councillor’s thumb. Whether it’s the Cockpit in Leeds, the Kazimier in Liverpool or Madame JoJo’s in London, these beloved places have been mourned by all those who attended shows there.Fortunately, despite the doom that inevitably follows each closure, there’s still a thriving independent scene where the stars of tomorrow learn their trade; whether it’s in front a packed student crowd , or one man and his tinnitus-ridden dog. And, of course, it’s not just about the music. Each of these venues is a creative incubator and part of that great money spinner we call the British night-time economy; generator of £66bn a year in revenue and employer of 8% of the population. Independent venue week started in 2014 and exists to shine a light on these venues, and raise awareness of the challenges facing those that are still pulling punters through the door. Special shows are happening up and down the country all the week – 23-29 January – so we’ve highlighted six venues that are still very much alive, and discovered how they remain optimistic in 2017.100 Club, London       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Savages play at the 100 Club in 2016. Photograph: Antonio Olmos for the ObserverOxford Street’s 100 Club opened in 1942, but solidified its place in UK culture when it staged the infamous 100 Club Punk Special in 1976. Over the course of two days the the Sex Pistols, the Clash, Siouxsie and the Banshees, the Damned and Buzzcocks all appeared on stage, and history was made. Since then the likes of Oasis, Blur and Primal Scream have played there. But having such a heritage doesn’t guarantee long-term security. “Being on some of the most expensive real estate in the world certainly has its challenges,” says third-generation 100 Club owner, Jeff Horton. “We almost went out of business in 2010. But a high-profile campaign to keep us open – plus a show from Paul McCartney, to highlight our importance and the importance of grassroots music venues – the 100 Club and Converse together as a partnership. This is what ultimately saved us. The partnership ended on 31 December but without their intervention this site would almost certainly now be a coffee shop or burger joint.”Horton says he is close to announcing a new partnership with another brand who he describes as a “perfect fit.” This year the 100 Club celebrate its 75th year, and Horton maintains his ambition to keep the doors open and the riders stacked. “We are the longest-running venue on the planet, albeit under various guises. You can’t just up and move, and leave that history, heritage and those ghosts behind.” 24 Kitchen Street, Liverpool It was 2013 and promoter Ioan Roberts was looking for a warehouse in Liverpool to throw a rave. Going door-to-door in the city’s industrial Baltic Triangle district, he bumped into an “old guy pottering around”. That old guy turned out to own 24 Kitchen Street. He let Roberts have a nose inside and he instantly knew that the 300 square metre site was the perfect location. So perfect, in fact, that he didn’t just throw a party there; he rounded up two mates and they bought the place. In 2017, 24 Kitchen Street is home to some of the most forward-thinking programming in Liverpool. You’ll find techno sets from Helena Hauff, garage odysseys from MJ Cole or soul excavations from hip-hop poet Saul Williams. It’s also a multi-arts venue, with theatre and exhibitions an intrinsic part of its reason d’être. “We’ve got better at programming and responding to the demands of the city,” says Roberts. “I’m from London and was originally more into London-centric music; grime, garage, dubstep, drum’n’bass. But Liverpool prefers techno, so we put more of that on, and now people trust us.”Since opening, the venue has played a key role in the Baltic Triangle blossoming around it and becoming become the city’s de facto creative hub. But it’s not all plain sailing: the club is currently in dispute with the local council regarding a development next door that will overlook its smoking courtyard. “Unless certain levels of insulation are put into place [in the new flats] people are going to be complaining,” says Roberts. “We’re a legitimate noise-making operation and they should mitigate against that.”Oh Yeah Centre, Belfast       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  R51 perform at Belfast’s Oh Yeah Centre.As with all the best ideas, the Oh Yeah Centre started life in the pub. “Gary Lightbody [of Snow Patrol] and our former chief executive [and former NME assistant editor] Stuart Bailie were sitting around having a beer one night,” says Charlotte Dryden, current chief executive. “They were chatting about how Belfast need a dedicated music centre where people can network, make music, be encouraged and be nurtured.” The Oh Yeah Centre is now looking forward to a series of one-off events to celebrate 10 years being a stalwart of the local scene. “We’re more of a music hub, but the venue is our beating heart. It generates income, through the bar and ticket sales, but we’re a charity and social enterprise so have lots of different sources of income.” The centre also has training and rehearsal rooms, a studio office space which it rents out to music-related businesses and an exhibition documenting the history of Northern Irish music.The 1975 and Bastille both played in their earlier days, and Ash came to play a fundraiser for their Volume Control programme, which trains the music promoters of tomorrow. Dryden clearly gets a buzz out of helping Northern Irish talent flourish: “I do really love watching something local. The discovery is part of it; when a band do something really special and you realise that they’re amazing. That’s the buzz.”Norwich Arts Centre  Norwich Arts Centre in full swing. Photograph: IPC MediaNorwich Arts Centre grabbed headlines in 2014 when NME named it the UK’s best small music venue; and Grace Jackson, its marketing officer, says that the best thing about the awards – other than the recognition – “was that it gave our regulars something they can be proud of that. They could say, ‘Yeah, we’ve got the best.’”Over the years the venue has staged Nirvana, Oasis, Tinariwen and local lad Ed Sheeran. Its most iconic moment came in 1991 when Richey Edwards, formerly of Manic Street Preachers, carved “4 REAL” into his forearm during a post-gig backstage debrief with then-NME journalist Steve Lamacq.The venue – also a theatre, comedy and digital arts space– is a registered charity and receives income from the Arts Council, and a small amount of local funding. The rest is generated income. “We have such great community support,” says Jackson. “Because we’re quite far from other cities we’ve always had a clear identity of our own.”Village Underground, London      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Side benefit … Tube train artists’ studios on top of Village Underground – which led to the creation of the music venue.Village Underground the gig venue was, if anything, an afterthought. “The aim was to build affordable studios for creative people struggling to get a foothold in Shoreditch. They accommodate up to 30 artists, writers, designers and film-makers working side by side in a creative community,” says Dan Davies, editorial director.Those studios happen to be inside two tube trains that were hoisted by cranes on top of a warehouse on Holywell Lane in 2007. Part of the deal with the council was that the project team had to do up the warehouse. It has now staged a spate of iconic shows and solidified Village Underground’s status as one of London’s most atmospheric live venues.Pixies (with Kim Deal), the Stone Roses performing their first London gig after they reformed, Jarvis Cocker taking an early artistic residence, Mary J Blige, Skepta and Drake hot footing it from last year’s Brit awards to appear on stage with Section Boyz are just some of the names Davies recalls. He says tickets sold out at more gigs than ever last year, and it is embracing streaming events, too: Mixmag and Boiler Room have been in many times, which is good for reaching a wider audience than their 720 capacity. “VR or 360 broadcast is also very exciting. But it’s still not the same as the live experience, and the physical connection.”The Trades Club, Hebden Bridge“I’ve toured in bands myself and know what it’s like from that perspective,” says Mal Campbell, promoter of Hebden Trades Club. “Often you’re not looked after that well, sometimes you never even see the promoter. Also: it’s not all about the money. Decent coffee and a warm welcome go a long way. We’ve got a beautiful-sounding room, a great PA system and the room has magic. We aim to be the best show of the tour – that’s the goal!”It’s big talk from Campbell, but perhaps helps explain why Hebden Bridge’s Trades Club (capacity: 200), in a market town of just 4,500 people, has managed to put on such established names as Patti Smith, Laura Marling, Thurston Moore, Ezra Furman and Marc Almond. During Independent venue week itself, its shows are a who’s who of leftfield indie rock: Cass McCombs, Cabbage, the Moonlandingzs and Richard Hawley. He likes it so much he’s playing twice. .“Bands talk to each other and so do agents – so word gets round. When Laura Marling played here I asked here why she picked the Trades for her first UK show in a long time. She said she had heard that it was a great place from other musicians.”The Trades Club is a members co-operative, part of a socialist club that started life in 1985. “The Morning Star has a afternoon fundraiser every couple of months,” says Campbell. “Last year, we had an exhibition celebrating the Civil Brigades involvement in the Spanish civil war – you don’t get that at an O2 venue!”For more information on Independent venue week, visit the websiteTake a look at our comprehensive Gig venue guide