Spoiler alert: this recap is for viewers of Deutschland 83 on Channel 4 and Walter Presents, please refrain from posting details from later episodes if you’ve see more.Catch up on episode three, Atlantic Lion, hereWe reached the halfway point of the series this week and with it things took a decidedly dark turn. Alas, poor Linda, all she wanted was a handsome young officer to fall in love with after her affair with her boss Herr Mayer had run its sad and inevitable course. Unfortunately, she picked Martin and thus ended up murdered by Stasi agents while desperately trying to escape the man she’d thought she loved. Deutschland 83’s Maria Schrader: ‘Many Germans were once refugees. That should make us more understanding’ Yet awful as Linda’s death was, it wasn’t even the most tragic moment of this episode. That came when Herbert Mayer, a man who worked hard at his job, who spoke to his secretary with care and kindness and who was clearly trying to do the right thing by her despite their affair, blew his brains out rather than give in to east-German blackmail. Deutschland 83 is walking a very interesting line here – for the past three weeks there has been an element of farce to many of the proceedings but, in reality, the stakes are incredibly high. This week, the truth of just how high was brutally hammered home. Some viewers will have found the dissonance between the frivolous Carry on Spying feel of the show and Linda and Mayer’s desperate ends jarring, but I think writer Anna Winger judged it correctly. The bigger test will be how the show proceeds from here – this week’s events were shattering, and to ignore that in favour of a return to the more light-hearted tone of the first three would be a mistake.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Martin phones home? Photograph: Laura DeschnerThe westWhile Martin was busy wooing, almost drowning, reconciling with, lying to, chasing and then weepily burying Linda, Alex was having his own day of reckoning with his father. I enjoyed his furious tantrum – it was melodramatic, cringeworthy and laughable, yes, but it was also realistically filled with all the self-righteous rage you can only truly feel at that age. Bonus point for the fact that he got to use the “you’re all Nazis” taunt and have it be true, which was a nice reminder of the rawness of recent history in Germany at this time. Still, young Edel should perhaps have thought things through before storming away from his family and off to Tobias’s magnificent mansion of manipulation and machinations for a quick – and no doubt soon to be deeply fraught – kiss. I think Alex’s journey has been pretty well done so far, he is clearly very confused about a lot of things and there’s a sense of him conflating the passion he feels for the peace movement with his burgeoning sexuality and thus seeing Tobias as the answer to all his prayers. There are also several things to unpack regarding Martin’s feelings towards Linda. I think the proposal was genuine – albeit a little spur of the moment – but on the other hand, he almost let her drown in one of the more terrifying scenes this show has depicted. Plus, he lied to her about who he was spying for, and did so with ice-cold plausibility, both of which made me wonder if he really cared for her at all. In truth, I think he liked her and was touched by her but wasn’t entirely in love with her. He said what he needed to say to keep her on side. The callous plan to incriminate Mayer was also believable, what after all what was Mayer to Martin but a faceless bureaucrat who could take the fall? The problem was he meant a great deal to Linda – on such small calculations do whole edifices of lies depend …      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Linda, played by Nikola Kastner. Photograph: Nik KonietznyThe eastThings weren’t looking much better in the east where Annett is clearly considering calling on Schweppenstette for help, a move that is unlikely to end well for either Thomas or Ingrid. Talking of Ingrid, I was a little confused about that ring – did Martin originally take it to give to Annett before being shipped off to the west? Because otherwise I’m not clear how, or indeed why, he has it. I’m also slightly confused about why Annett is so very angry with Thomas about the car – unless it’s just that she feels extremely guilty about having slept with him and now can’t bear to be reminded of the fact. Elsewhere, the east-German spying mission found their plans derailed by the vagaries of life once again – this time as an enthusiastic cleaner hoovered up the desk bug. Again, there will be those who cry foul about the level of bungling that goes on in this show, but I thought that was an incident that was within the realms of possibility. Plus, there was something horribly sad about the way that a seemingly minor incident such as the accidental hoovering of a bug ultimately lead to murder, blackmail and suicide. It’s a cold, cold war indeed. Stasi filesThe Edels continue to move up the ranks of my dysfunctional families chart. I like the fact that they largely mean well and love each other, but are incapable of getting that across.I was also impressed with Renate’s novel glass disposal technique. Poor fish, do they really need to get drunk as well?Noooo Martin. I know you’re grieving for Linda and struggling to come to terms with your role in her death but not the Ashram … Please. In truth, that was nicely in character, as it was the perfect place to hide and allowed him to turn his charms on Yvonne, which we all know has been coming. I would like to see more of Frau Netz, aka the Miss Blankenship of D83. Nice name checks this week for Heinrich Boll, author of one of my favourite novels, The Lost Honour of Katharina Blum, and Willy Brandt, the charismatic former west German chancellor.I tried to find out more about the film Tobias and Alex watch at the cinema but came up short – anyone else know more?German picnics are definitely more fun than British ones – well, if you ignore the small issue of attempted murder, that is.I was a little bit bemused as to why Linda took off through a conveniently placed forest. I get that she panicked when she realised the truth about Martin – but why not just get on a train? Running wildly through the undergrowth never ends well in any genre, for goodness sake. We don’t see that it’s Tobias who runs Linda down but I presumed it was – any one have any different theories? Talking of Tobias of course, he spends his spare time playing chess with himself and drinking whisky in his unfeasibly large house. There’s probably jazz playing softly in the background as well. He’s that smooth. Song of the weekOnly two songs this week, so I’m going to give the honours to Fischer-Z’s Cruise Missiles which played us out at the end (if only because I am still too traumatised by Show Me a Hero to appreciate Bruce Springsteen on any other TV show right now).    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Quote of the week“It’ll cost me my marriage and my career, but don’t think I’ll sacrifice my convictions to save my own arse” – Goodbye Herbert Mayer, you might have slept with your secretary, but you were kind, honest and quite possibly the only decent man on this whole show. So what did you think? Was Linda’s death expected? How do you feel about Martin now? Will Annett call Schweppenstette? And how long do you think Martin will stay in the Ashram before all the chanting, singing and swaying wears thin? As ever, all speculation and no spoilers welcome below.