Name: Unicorns.Age: About two.Appearance: Hipsterish, dressed in black T-shirts, usually found in California, though also increasingly visible in cities in India and China.Pointy thing on the forehead, I seem to recall: Er, no, you are thinking of the mythical white horse that features in the literature of the ancient world. The modern unicorns – privately owned high-tech companies valued at $1bn or more – are resolutely modern.So why are they called unicorns? Because when American venture capitalist Aileen Lee coined the term two years ago, she could find only 39 in the US. Since she reckoned 60,000 software and internet companies had been “seeded” in the previous decade, that meant only 0.07 had grown into billion-dollar companies – hence they were as rare as unicorns.And are they still? Apparently not. At the last count, there were 131, and they are growing by at least 50 a year. “Unicorns are becoming so common, maybe we should just call them horses,” is one Silicon Valley joke.How droll. There is even a new terminology springing up to describe the market: “narwhals” are companies valued at more than $500m; “decacorns” are companies valued at more than $10bn. No one has yet come up with a word for Uber, which is valued at more than $50bn.Who cares? This is boring. True, but it matters because it could have the makings of another dotcom bubble. “We may be nearing the end of a cycle where growth is valued more than profitability,” investment guru Bill Gurley tweeted last week. “It could be at an inflection point.”An inflection point? I think it means everything is about to go belly-up.Maybe the stock market collapse in China could be another indicator. I see you’ve been reading the FT after all.What is this growth v profitability thing? Unicorns usually pursue market share rather than profit – for a digital startup, dominating your sector is everything. As a result, you can be valued at billions without ever making a cent. But eventually, investors might start fretting about the bottom line.And then? Gurley reckons there are going to be lots of “dead unicorns” and “zombie unicorns” – and quite a few burnt investors.Not to be confused with: The real world.Do say: “It’s a dangerous spike.”Don’t say: “Isn’t this a bit recherché for Pass notes? Perhaps we should have done Usain Bolt instead.”