Joanne Harris, author of Chocolat, has announced that she is withdrawing from a books festival “for the first time in her life” due to the unfair demands of the festival organisers, saying an industry-wide standard must be introduced for festivals to follow.“With the utmost regret, I’m pulling out of a festival because of the terms of their contract,” Harris tweeted. “Unrestricted filming of the event; five free copies of the book AND a six-week exclusivity clause that forbids me to talk anywhere else … All this for the princely sum of 50 quid. No thanks.”Joanne Harris (@Joannechocolat)My publisher's PR says that these iffy contracts have been cropping up a lot recently. I say it's time we drew up one of our own...February 23, 2016Speaking to the Guardian, Harris said she would not name the festival, which takes place in July, but that such events’ contracts are often so bizarre that authors needed to start speaking up. She said exclusivity clauses – which stipulate a period during which authors can’t do any other public appearances – were quite common in festival contracts. I think there is a real disparity between what festivals think they offer authors and what they give youJoanne Harris “The exclusivity clause is always a problem, because if you are on a book tour you don’t want to be told you can’t do another event in that city or region or even the whole country – I have seen that before,” Harris said, adding that she also found the filming of events problematic because the release of the footage could put readers off future events.Harris said she thought previous silence on such a pervasive practice was due to authors not wanting to cause a stir.“We don’t often feel we are in a position where we can make a fuss. We are told so often we should be grateful for the exposure. We love festivals; readers love festivals – but I think there is a real disparity between what festivals think they offer authors and what festivals give you,” she said.Harris said it had been “weeks or months” since she was first approached about appearing at the festival and that she had only just seen the contract, which she had now shown to the Society of Authors. “I’ve left it in their hands. I hope we can come to an arrangement, but if they want me to sign that contract, I clearly can’t do it.”Nicola Solomon, the chief executive of the Society of Authors, said it does “not advocate a standard contract, but we do urge all festivals to follow our guidelines”, citing the Society’s minimum practice guidelines for literary festivals.“We, like Joanne, have seen a number of festivals which try to impose an exclusivity period on authors,” Solomon said. “This strikes us as most unfair and singularly inappropriate, particularly when authors are paid so little.” She said the society would add advice on exclusivity clauses to its guidelines when it revises them later in the year.Philip Pullman: professional writers set to become 'an endangered species' Harris’s withdrawal comes after a spate of authors pledged to drop out of festivals that did not pay authors, including His Dark Materials author Philip Pullman, who announced he would resign as patron of the Oxford literary festival over the lack of pay for authors who made appearances. In the same week, Francesca Simon, Denise Mina and Harris herself signed a letter published in the Bookseller. Their statement read: “Writing is a vocation but it is also a profession, and it is time we all stiffened our spines, dug in our heels and said no.”Oxford literary festival later said it would “meet with all interested parties to discuss how to achieve payment of fees for all speakers” from 2017.“At small, non-commercial festivals I will give the fee back,” Harris said on Tuesday, citing a recent small event that offered her a fee, which she returned. “But that was them giving me a choice and I am grateful to have that choice. Some people could not afford to do that. I do make a difference between a local festival and a great big one with corporate backing that claims they can’t afford to pay.”Crime authors Val McDermid and Michael Robotham tweeted their support to Harris, with Robotham saying: “Authors are not circus animals.”This article was amended on 23 February 2016, to clarify that Philip Pullman resigned as patron of the Oxford Literary Festival, not necessarily from appearing as a speaker in the future.