Late-night hosts discussed Donald Trump’s unfaithful relationship with the truth, and the growing power of the first son-in-law, Jared Kushner.On The Late Show, Stephen Colbert was joined by comic Louis CK, who tore into Trump’s casual lies. “He’s not as profound as I thought he was. I thought he was some new kind of evil, but he’s just as lying sack of shit,” CK explained.Louis CK: 2017 review – buttons are pushed but the set doesn't achieve lift-off “Sometimes people lie, right?” he continued. “Then there’s somebody who lies once in a while, he can’t quite stay inside the boundaries of truth. Then you have a liar, somebody for who it’s a problem, they can’t help it, they lie a lot. But then you have just lying sacks of shit … They like it. [Trump] likes it.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Colbert pointed out an audience member who had voted for Trump last year. “That’s the guy he lied to. He didn’t lie to me, he lied to him,” CK replied. “Everybody else was like ‘Yeah that’s not true’. But that guy bought it. So he’s the victim of the lying.”CK added: “Don’t you want God to just show up and say, ‘I was just kidding about everything?’”Colbert discussed reports that former Obama adviser Susan Rice had requested last year that identities of Americans incidentally caught up in surveillance operations be “unmasked”. “You know what that means … I hope. Because no one really knows what that means,” he joked. Colbert mocked senator and former presidential candidate Rand Paul for calling Rice a “noted dissembler” in a tweet. “Fancy language, senator. I will duel you at dawn you charlatan, you mountebank, you mendacious flimflamming dissembler. Bring a pistol and a thesaurus,” he quipped. The White House has suggested that Rice asked for the names of Trump campaign team members who were recorded while communicating with people under investigation by security services. “So Trump is going after Susan Rice by saying: ‘My team wasn’t talking to Russia, and if they were, then how come Susan Rice caught my team talking to Russia. There’s your scandal.’”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Jared Kushner visits Iraq with chairman of joint chiefs of staff On The Daily Show, Trevor Noah asked if Jared Kushner has become the real president. Earlier this week Kushner traveled to Iraq to discuss the fight against the Islamic State with Iraqi leaders. “Maybe it’s not the worst idea. If anyone could drive Isis crazy, it’s a New York landlord,” he joked, imagining their irritated reaction. “‘If we want to move into Iraq, we have to pay a broker’s fee? Forget it.’”Noah showed news footage where Kushner’s growing list of responsibilities were reeled off – including reforming federal government operations, tackling the US opioid epidemic, preparing a summit between Trump and the president of China, and brokering peace in the Middle East. “And here you were bitching about your father-in-law asking you to set up the wifi,” the comic joked. Noah predicted that Trump’s trusted confidant would inevitably mix things up, impersonating Kushner. “Mr President, I sent the black people to Iraq, I’ve imprisoned our veterans, and I injected the Chinese president with opium – oh and Isis is coming to Mar-a-Lago.”    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest On the Tonight Show, Jimmy Fallon noted the news that the White House is archiving all of Donald Trump’s tweets. “That way future generations can read Kennedy’s journals, Lincoln’s diaries and Trump’s insults about Arnold Schwarzenegger,” he quipped. 