I was driving through a local village with my children recently when we passed a sign for a prison. “What does HMP stand for?” asked my son Jake. The explanation created a sensation. “A prison?” gasped his brother, Joe. “A real-life prison? Near our house!”Before the recent purchase of a Lego Batman Batcave, featuring a jail “with bars and everything”, I’m not sure they were aware that such institutions existed. But the dangerous glamour of crime and punishment has electrified them and they can happily spend hours consigning delinquent toys to detention in their Lego jail. At six and four, the boys inhabit a universe of moral absolutes – goodies and baddies – in which inmates are obviously baddies. “We live near actual baddies!” Joe exclaimed. “What if one escaped?”In hindsight, I should probably have let it go. But, without thinking, I heard myself say, “Well, not everyone in prison is a baddie.” What did I mean? “Well, some of my friends have been to prison. I even visited them. They weren’t baddies. They were lovely people who just made a mistake and did something wrong.”Jake asked if I’d ever been sent to prison and I laughed. “No!”Then he asked about his father – “Was he ever locked up?” And I froze.We all keep secrets about ourselves from our children. I don’t think I knew this when I was a child. It was only when I became a parent myself that I began to scrutinise my biography and wonder which bits would best be kept to myself. Surprisingly few, was the answer, but not because I’d led an unusually virtuous life. It was just that my transgressions looked like minor misdemeanours compared with the X-rated rap sheet of their father’s past.Tony was just four when he burgled his first house. He stole compulsively, even from the family who adopted him, and locks had to be fitted to every bedroom door in their home except his. He spent much of his childhood behind bars for violence and theft, ran away to London at 15 to become a Soho hustler and lived in a squat with a prostitute. When he helped her escape her pimps, they broke in and beat Tony with iron bars, before carting his girlfriend off to resume her services. He tracked them down and shot them. No one died, but he went on the run. Arrested a year later, he was still in his teens when an Old Bailey judge sent him to prison for 14 years.On release, Tony resumed his criminal career and became an accomplished gangster. Drug dealing, gun running, extortion and violence were all highly lucrative, but by 40 he had wound up his more ostentatiously lawless operations and confined his business to the discreet wholesale of cocaine. As he saw it, he had practically gone legit. More recreational crimes such as football hooliganism, handling stolen goods or driving without a licence, he didn’t even count as breaking the law. But he was heavily addicted to crack. Tony would smoke it every night, often until dawn, and was puzzled by my sense that it was neither normal nor ideal to sleep until 4pm.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tony and Decca in 2006. Photograph: Courtesy Decca AitkenheadWhen we first became a couple, it never occurred to me to worry about how this might one day be explained to our children. Only a lunatic would have predicted we would last long enough to make a family. I loved him, but failed to see how our relationship could work, and six months of anthropological novelty as a gangster’s moll was enough for me. I told him I could not be with an addict and left him.What happened next still astonishes me. Tony found a Narcotics Anonymous meeting that day and never touched crack again.Once back together, he signed up for college classes, took an access course in humanities and won a scholarship to study psychology and criminology at university. The only father our two boys ever knew was a mature student who graduated with a first and went to work for Kids Company.When our sons were born, I wondered how and when we would tell them about his past. When would be the right time for them to know their father used to be a criminal and a crack addict? At what point would we tell them he had been to prison? But the dilemma lay far ahead in the distance and would be faced together.Two years ago, Tony drowned. We were on holiday in Jamaica and our four-year-old was swept out to sea by a riptide. Tony swam out and rescued him, but could not save himself. Now that he is gone, I am the gatekeeper of his past, in sole custody of a history the boys will never have the chance to integrate or reconcile with a father they know. Alive only in their imagination, he will always be a semi-mythical figure to them and this has transformed what used to be a distant, shared dilemma into an immediate problem for which I alone am responsible.Disclosed too early, the risk is that the revelations will upset and confuse them. Left too late, they could devastate the boys’ fantasies of a flawless hero. I can see how easily these fantasies will form. Tony gave his life to save his son, deification is inevitable – and he was a hero, it is true. But I don’t want their image of their father to be a work of posthumous fiction that airbrushes out all his other truths. Neither do I want them to grow up under pressure to live up to the impossible standards of a ghost. Above all, I do not want Tony’s past to become a toxic family secret. The truth always leaks out in the end and I want them to hear it from me.It is very hard to see when the time would be right. If I tell them while they are children and see the world in black and white, good and bad, how will they be able to comprehend the complexity of Tony? If I wait until adolescence, will they glamorise his past and be drawn to emulate it? The friends I consulted all assumed the boys would be inspired by the redemptive triumph of Tony’s life, but I worry that the message they would take from it as teenagers is that if their dad broke the law, they could too. He got away with it; why wouldn’t they?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Decca and her children in Jamaica. Photograph: William Richards for the GuardianAdults understand how difficult and rare it is to turn around a life of crime and drugs – it’s why they find Tony’s story so inspiring. What they forget, I fear, is that we all mistake our own parents for the universal norm and can draw the most calamitously misleading assumptions from our parents’ unrepresentative example. But if I wait until Jake and Joe are adults, and sufficiently sophisticated to absorb his past without mistaking it for an indictment or a licence, I think they will be furious with me for keeping secrets and feel betrayed.All these thoughts made me very worried about whether it was wise to write a book about Tony’s life and death. The price to be paid for the emotional catharsis of a memoir would be the surrender of editorial control; everything would be irretrievably known. Jake and Joe would be too young to read it, of course – but what if an older kid taunted them in the playground? “Did you know your dad was a gangster? Your dad was a drug addict.” If I wrote the book, I would no longer be able to choose what and when to tell them.In the end, that is precisely why I decided to write it. I do not ever want to lie to my children, but I can see the truth is so fraught with dangers that the temptation to edit or withhold may become irresistible. By relinquishing control I forfeited that option and in the end this felt like the safest thing to do.I finished the book on the first anniversary of Tony’s death. Six weeks later, I discovered I had breast cancer. The possibility that both their parents might be dead before Jake and Joe were old enough to read it hadn’t figured in my calculations. It is probably not the book I would have written for two orphans. And, of course, they may not share my instinct that telling the truth can never be wrong. When chemotherapy made my hair fall out, I didn’t tell them I was wearing a wig for weeks, for fear of upsetting them. When I did, Jake was furious. “You didn’t have to tell us,” he raged. “You could have kept it a secret.” I told him I didn’t want to lie to him. “Well, I wish you had,” he said.It will be years before Jake and Joe are old enough to adjudicate on my decision to write All at Sea. Until then, I can only take faith from what was said in the car when Jake asked about his dad again, “Was he ever sent again to prison?”“Yes,” I said. “When he was very young, long before I met him.”In the rear view mirror, I registered their wide-eyed surprise. Anxious to contextualise this shocking revelation, I launched into an elaborate explanation, until I glanced in the mirror again. The boys had already lost interest and were discussing what might be for tea.• All at Sea by Decca Aitkenhead is published by Fourth Estate, £16.99. To order a copy for £12.99, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846 