Name: Samantha Cameron.Age: 45.Job description: Fashion designer.What? Samantha Cameron has gone back to work? Yes, but that’s understandable. After all, David lost his job this year, and someone has got to keep him in £225 swimming trunks.And now she’s a fashion designer, you say? Well, perhaps it would be more accurate to say that she’s a fashion designer again. Don’t forget that she was creative director of Smythson before she moved into No 10.Oh yes, Smythson. That reminds me, I want to buy my dad a keyring for Christmas. Smythson keyrings start at £55.Maybe I’ll just get him a book token. Anyway, this new direction shouldn’t be a surprise. Samantha took a dressmaker’s course when David was PM, and she registered Samantha Cameron Studio Ltd with Companies House in October.So, what are her plans? They’re not just plans. Samantha has already unveiled her new range in the pages of Vogue.Ah, Vogue, where every struggling new designer gets their first break. Her clothing line is called Cefinn. She named it after the initials of her four children, the Telegraph says, which is actually quite sweet.You mean her children Nancy, Elwen, Florence and Ivan? She should have called it Neif. Anyway, in Vogue, Samantha can be seen modelling a grey top and a grey skirt, with a grey belt tied around it. If you ask me, the ensemble looks very swish.Any other outfits? There will be 40 items announced in time. For now, though, the sign-up page for her new label shows a woman in a grey top.Doesn’t sound very colourful. Samantha has said of Cefinn: “I felt that there were a lot of American and French brands out there that fit that bracket of ‘designer contemporary’ with the right price point and the right styling, but there aren’t that many British brands which fill that space.”Oh, great. I want to buy my mum some clothes for Christmas. What price point are we talking? Cefinn will be sold exclusively through Net-a-Porter and Selfridges.Right, she’s getting a book token. Thought so.Do say: “Good on Samantha Cameron for understanding that there is a life after Downing Street.”Don’t say: “Coming for autumn/winter 2020: Philip John May presents Brexitte: Pour Homme.”