I meet Mary Gaitskill at a small corner coffee and barber’s shop near where she lives in Williamsburg, New York. The guttural hiss of the steamer and the shouts of the baristas are too loud to hear ourselves speak so we take our flat whites and sit out on a low pavement bench that is shaded from the hot morning sun. At 61 Gaitskill is still in full possession of the dramatic cheekbones and pale blue eyes that stared out from the author photograph on her landmark debut collection of fiction, Bad Behavior, 28 years ago. She did for the New York short story back then something comparable to what Debbie Harry had done a few years earlier for the New York popular song: invested it with stark attitude and jagged lived emotion.  Mary Gaitskill’s 1988 debut instantly established her on the literary scene.Those original stories have done much to define Gaitskill’s subsequent literary reputation, for better and perhaps sometimes worse. She came complete with a few lines of biography that also seemed more rock’n’roll than literary: a teenage runaway from Michigan, she had worked as a flower seller in San Francisco and a stripper for two years in New York to support her writing. Of her sex work, she once said, “When I grew up, I didn’t have experiences of adolescent femaleness because I didn’t do the normal thing with dating and all that. So, in a strange way, I got to act that out in burlesque. I could make fun of it and yet have the experience. It was like taking on various personas and throwing them off right away. I felt that I was in control and I didn’t feel demeaned by it.”The textures of those personas, hard and vulnerable by turns, filtered into her bleak, intimate stories, which were rooted in shifting lives on Manhattan’s Lower East Side and written with unnerving clarity. Announcing her debut back then in the New York Times book review, the critic Michiko Kakutani described the world of Gaitskill’s book like this: “The hookers wear their hair in short, angry green spikes, and try to discuss stories in the New Yorker with their clients. An air of Pinteresque menace hangs over these people’s social exchanges like black funereal bunting, and their sexual liaisons tend to devolve quickly into sadomasochistic power games full of emotional (and sometimes physical) violence.”In the most famous of the stories, Secretary, later made into a more anodyne film starring Maggie Gyllenhaal, a young woman goes to work in a two-room lawyer’s office where her clerical errors are punished by her being forcibly stripped and spanked by her emotionless boss, a scenario Gaitskill makes both sharply disturbing and full of complicated arousal. The cover of that book portrayed a woman bound and gagged, submissive and defiant on hands and knees; Gaitskill was claimed as a post-feminist provocateur. One interviewer admitted removing her wedding ring before they met so as not to appear too impossibly conventional.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Maggie Gyllenhaal stars in the film adaptation of Secretary, one of the stories in Gaitskill’s debut. Photograph: Allstar/Lionsgate I gave the book to her, and later she said, 'I read some but I thought I might have too many feelings so I stopped' Gaitskill has of course done a lot of living and writing since those days. There have been two further collections of stylish stories (Because They Wanted To and Don’t Cry) and two novels (Two Girls, Fat and Thin and Veronica which was shortlisted for the National Book Award in 2005). She has taught literature and creative writing at universities for much of that time, and detailed some of her singular interior life in unflinching essays and memoirs. In one, On Not Being a Victim (1994), she examined, presciently and pointedly, the wider identity politics and complicated emotional fallout of having been raped as a 16-year-old, one trigger for her writing. In another, for Granta, in 2009, she examined the disabling nature of mid-life loss – of her beloved cat, and her troubling father and, subsequently to the essay, her husband, the writer Peter Trachtenberg, in a split that seemed to be precipitated in some way by their involvement in a scheme that brought urban children from difficult homes out to live in the country (in their case upstate New York) for the summer.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Tabitha SorenIt is the world of that last essay that has given life to Gaitskill’s new book, The Mare, her first novel for a decade. The book is a typically curious departure for her as a writer. It takes the relationship between a woman not unlike herself called Ginger, an artist, and a New York Dominican teenager, Velvet, who comes to stay with her as part of the Fresh Air Fund scheme that Gaitskill and her husband volunteered for. Told in conflicting first-person voices the novel expands into a story of Velvet’s passion for the horses at the upstate stables she visits, and of Ginger’s battle to save Velvet from her violent mother, Silvia. It kept haunting me. Out of nowhere I would get images, dialogue, whole scenes. That’s never happened to me before In some senses Gaitskill is recasting Elizabeth Taylor and National Velvet, though she says the similarities are mostly accidental. The book also risks a degree of Black Beauty sentimentality: it has what is as close to a Hollywood ending as Gaitskill will ever get. In previous interviews she has spoken of her fear of “appearing foolish” in the book, as if it risked her reputation for clear-eyed candour about human relationships. To start with I ask her what she meant by that.She talks warmly and precisely, putting on and taking off her shades, taking care to say exactly what she means.“Foolish mainly because it involved so many things I didn’t know about. Horses, for example,” she says.The book is much concerned with the interaction between Velvet and her wayward horse; Gaitskill was at pains to make that authentic. “I was naive,” she admits. “I thought I could do it by interviewing people. So I went to stables and said: ‘Did you ever have a deep connection to a horse?’” When that clearly didn’t work she volunteered for three years, grooming and cleaning stalls. She took up riding aged 57: “Very early I had tried bareback because I wanted the character to do that,” she says. “Without the saddle I could feel the horse’s body and found my own body relaxing. The third bareback lesson, though, I fell off. I was OK but I thought: you are going to break your stupid ass if you keep doing this.”I wonder how much of Velvet’s communion with her horse in the book was based directly on the experience of the Fresh Air Fund child who came into her life, whom she calls Natalia in the Granta essay.“Some,” she says. “She was certainly interested in the horses where we lived, and showed talent as a rider.” More than that, though, the story was sparked by the fact that when Gaitskill and Natalia watched movies together “she would perk up whenever she saw a Latina character”. Almost unbidden the idea formed in Gaitskill’s head that she would write a movie with a Latina heroine in the most Waspish of American roles: “Liz Taylor riding across a Technicolor green meadow”. Her idea for a film treatment became a book. “This was 2007, but it kept haunting me. Out of nowhere I would get images, dialogue, whole scenes. That’s never happened to me before.”Presumably, I say, it was her unconscious need to communicate with Natalia, who had by then returned to her fractured life in New York.“I gave the book to her,” she says. “She started to read it in front of me and looked kind of startled. The last time I spoke to her she said ‘I read some but I thought I might have too many feelings so I stopped.’”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Mary Gaitskill reads from The Mare.I read a recent short essay that Gaitskill wrote about Anna Karenina, in which she describes how Tolstoy’s characters “seem most like themselves in the moments when they’re behaving in ways we’ve never before seen.” Her own fiction dramatises those moments, sometimes sexual, when interior lives are laid bare. Much of The Mare happens inside the head of Ginger, who is troubled by a past in which “Friendship was bad, sex was worse, and love – love! That was someone who rang my doorbell at 3am and I would let him in so he could tell me I was worthless.” Her relationship with Velvet gives her a new insight into that emotion. I wonder how much she thought of Ginger as being autobiographical?“Not so much. I made her very, very neurotic,” she says.But in terms of the close connection she feels with Velvet?“Yes, I did have the feeling that this relationship was very real but I didn’t know how to place it in the world. People were worried by it. And I was in a little more difficult situation than Ginger because I couldn’t be that available [to Natalia]. I spent a lot of time teaching up at Syracuse. I could be available on the phone and help her with her schoolwork but she couldn’t come up and stay that much, and my husband wouldn’t have wanted it.”Gaitskill has not had children and those maternal feelings overwhelmed her.“It came as a complete surprise to me,” she says. “We were thinking of adopting and we were thinking of an older child, not a baby. But we were not sure; so we did this Fresh Air Fund thing to have some weeks with the kid and see what it would be like to have a child around.” It went on for six years. “And I just fell in love with these children – Natalia and her brother – it was a very new experience and a very powerful one.”Did the unqualified nature of that emotion shock her? Simple tenderness isn’t necessarily a quality I associate with her writing at least? In a way I used to use [the rape] to show how tough I was. You know, 'I was raped by a guy in Detroit when I was 16…' “I actually do think the writing in the other books is tender,” she says. “I’m not saying you are reading them wrongly. But in the language I think there is always at least a yearning for tenderness. It’s perhaps just more directly expressed here. At first it even seemed to me it was a very unusual book to write. Then when I thought about it, it wasn’t so unusual. All my books are really about un-socially supported love.”I assumed, reading The Mare, that in some ways Gaitskill was drawing on her own adolescence in creating the interior life of Velvet. I was struck, I say, rereading her On Not Being a Victim essay, about her circumstances back then. Her father was a teacher, her mum a great reader who subscribed to the New Yorker; how did she come to be in a squat in Detroit aged 16?Gaitskill first ran away from home when she was 15 after her parents committed her to an asylum in an effort to cure her “wilful” teenage behaviour. “Like many parents they were frightened by the times as much as anything,” she says. It was 1969. “The Manson family was in the news and to my parents’ generation it looked like teenage girls had lost their minds. They wanted to do drugs and have sex with strange boys. It was terrorising.” Her aunt made a bonfire of Gaitskill’s jeans, and put her own daughter in hospital too. “When I left home a second time they all just kind of threw up their hands,” she says.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gaitskill as a young woman: ‘I think everyone wants to feel tougher than they are.’ Photograph: Sophie Bassouls/CorbisShe set off to hitchhike to Canada but as a minor wasn’t allowed to cross the border. She ended up in a crash pad in Detroit. “I was there four or five days with this girl,” she recalls. “This older black guy came round and we took acid. And this other girl just left.” In her essay she describes how she had no clear way of reading the situation, either before or after. “I knew he was from a really much rougher place than me and I felt compassion,” she says. “And then I think he realised when he was on top of me that I was just a very scared 16-year-old girl. And then he became really tender and that made me sad. I was utterly confused.”Some of that conflict of emotion seems to find its way into many of her characters. Looking back now, to what extent was that experience scarring?“I am sure it was,” she says. “Though in a way I used to use it to show how tough I was. You know, ‘I was raped by a guy in Detroit when I was 16’. I would allow people to think it was this completely terrifying situation. As I wrote in the piece, I knew that wasn’t entirely accurate.”You said it that way because it was an easier story?“No, it was to show how tough I was.”Why was that important?“Probably because I was a very young girl and alone in the world and wanted to scare people off a little.”When did it stop being important?“When I was older. But in a way I think everyone wants to feel tougher than they are. And anyway it’s like you don’t ever really have the language to describe something in a way that makes complete sense.”Are those are the moments she tries to get closest to in her writing?“I think there are so many layers to everyone that we often don’t know at all what we feel about even the people closest to us until something happens to really jar our psyche. I tend to trust the thing that gets churned out then.”Often, she suggests, it is seemingly small things that can trigger those revelations.“I am not a religious person. But for most of my life I have believed in a spiritual existence. I think that what we experience on the surface of life is just one part of the picture. As a result sometimes things which look very insignificant can have enormous importance.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Mary Gaitskill reads from Lost Cat.This happened to her powerfully when her father died nearly a decade ago, she says, and she realised she had feelings for him she never knew she had. That was the impetus for writing the Granta piece about her lost cat.“Part of it was simply I loved the cat. I didn’t know where he was and that opened the door. My father himself was orphaned and he famously didn’t cry when his mother died or when his father died and then he apparently completely lost it when his dog died. The family thought it was funny at the time, but it makes perfect sense to me. Finally it is too much.”Does she see her writing as a search for those moments of emotional clarity? I said [to my students], ‘Go home and look between your legs and tell me if that is a social construct’ She does in some senses. She says it seems very strange to her that she is sometimes perceived as cool or at a distance from sentiment in her work. I wonder if that perception comes from her willingness to write about taboo experiences, sado-masochism and abusive relationships, in a very nuanced way?“I read Bad Behavior out loud recently [for an audio book],” she says. “When I read it out I just feel it is so hypersensitive and sort of extremely neurotic. I said that to a friend and he said you are wrong. He said, whether anyone is into S&M or not they can recognise the idea of ‘you are with someone you have a huge crush on, you want to please them but nothing you do is ever quite right.’ I guess that is very true to life.”The 1970s and 1980s, when many of those stories are set, is a very different time and place. I wonder how she gets on as a university teacher now in our “safe space” and “trigger warning” times?She doesn’t teach her own work, but even so it can be difficult. “I had a class of graduate students at NYU, not long ago,” she says. “I had them read John Updike’s Rabbit Run. They came into the next lesson just incredibly outraged how sexist the character was – and really angry that I should ask them to read it because: how could you possibly relate to a misogynist character like that? I said: ‘You really can’t begin to imagine a character that wants to run away from his responsibilities?’ They looked at me like I had confessed to sympathy for a murderer. When I at one point tried to argue that racism and sexism were not quite the same things I had people shouting ‘Gender is a social construct!’ and so on at me. I said ‘Go home and look between your legs and tell me if that is a social construct’ and then of course all hell broke loose.” Gaitskill smiles, slightly mystified. “Literature is not a realm for politeness as far as I am concerned.”We talk a little bit about how she feels to put her books out into the world, the trepidation about being misunderstood, and the difficulties about trying to capture other lives. The hardest character to write in The Mare, she says, was Velvet’s mother, Silvia, who is loosely based on Natalia’s real-life parent.In the book it can feel like Ginger and Silvia are battling for Velvet’s soul, but in life it was not quite that extreme. “My sense was that basically she was happy I was there, able to buy them things. We sent them to a good Catholic school at some point. But I suppose she thought I was a silly woman.”Playing at motherhood? I feel more alien to book culture than I ever have. Partly because of age. I don’t care much for the literary world “Yes. She didn’t say so overtly. It was hard; in my eyes she was abusive. I mean, one time her son was being difficult and we called her and asked her advice about what to do and she said: ‘Punch him in the face, you have my permission.’ He was nine years old. But then I also could tell she really cared for the children and I actually liked her…”Would Gaitskill ever take in children again?“If I had the opportunity I might well do. But I’m not sure I have the same energy.”I ask if she lives on her own now.“I live with a roommate,” she says. “I like it. Seems odd at my age. But we are very compatible, both out a lot. In fact, though, I just got back together with my husband. He is teaching up at Bennington College, lives in Pittsburgh. We are looking again at getting a place upstate together.”Living in the city she has missed some things about rural life, she says, including her routine with the horses. “I liked to go to the stables because unlike writing it was a job that had a beginning and an end. You went there, you would pick up the shit, put it in the wheelbarrow, take it out and go home. Writing isn’t like that.”Does she ever feel she might give up writing?“I do sometimes,” she admits. “I feel more alien to book culture than I ever have, I think. Partly because of age. I don’t care much for the literary world. I think people basically accept me now. To begin with I was stunned at how rude people were. They would say to me, ‘Well, sex always sells’, or ‘It helps that you are pretty’. This was 30 years ago.” She smiles. “Thankfully that doesn’t happen so much now. And I no longer have to answer.”The Mare by Mary Gaitskill is published by Serpent’s Tail on 28 July, £14.99. Click here to order it for £12.29 