The Home Guard was one of the strangest and least military armies ever formed – an improvised band of volunteers set up early in the second world war, which had grown, by 1942, into a conscripted, disciplined and well-equipped force of nearly 2 million men. Immortalised in the sitcom Dad’s Army, still a well-loved staple of TV’s repeat repertoire almost 40 years after its last episode was first broadcast, it is about to reach new generations through a film version of the series, with Bill Nighy and Toby Jones in the parts made famous by Arthur Lowe and John Le Mesurier.It is a good moment to reissue my 1974 book, The Real Dad’s Army, which was originally commissioned to accompany an exhibition at the Imperial War Museum. It became the first popular history of the Home Guard, using a technique which I had pioneered with an earlier book, How We Lived Then, of requesting memories from the public as a key source. I knew there was a story to be told as, among the thousand or so letters I received while researching How We lived Then, were many reminiscences from veterans of the outfit that was originally known as the Local Defence Volunteers. Freud, Dad's Army and 70 years of Nazi jokes Written to a two-month deadline, it had had to be concise. The launch of both book and exhibition coincided with the start of the seventh series of Dad’s Army, and was marked by a party attended by the cast, who arrived in costume and in character, in Jones the butcher’s van, to the amusement of, among other guests, the politician and later prime minister, Anthony Eden, founder of the Local Defence Volunteers. As in all my wartime books, my intention was to show the impact of extraordinary events on ordinary people, and my research confirmed that the much-loved sitcom was strikingly accurate in its portrayal of the Home Guard. As I recount in my autobiography, The Shaping Season, there were echoes of Private Pike in my own experience, when, aged 17, I was enrolled in the school Home Guard, clad in a borrowed uniform and steel helmet, both far too large for me.While most men in the regular forces waited to be called up, and answered the summons with reluctance, the response to the launch of the LDV was overwhelming: it got 250,000 volunteers in 24 hours, and 1.5 million in six weeks – roughly equivalent to the size of the wartime army.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The cast of Dad’s Army in 1970. Photograph: Douglas Miller/Getty ImagesThere was a distinctly egalitarian streak in the Home Guard, which generally escaped the rank-consciousness that was so rife in the army. Until November 1940, there were no ranks or salutes, and even when this changed, relations between the members of a unit remained, by army standards, remarkably free and easy. The Home Guard spirit was described by Lord Bridgeman as “to a large extent … people would rather do what they wanted instead of what they were told”. Persuasion was more common than prosecution; comradeship more valued than discipline. “Officer only” signs were rarely seen on Home Guard premises, and all ranks travelled third-class on the railways.Joanna Biggs: 'Work is where we make friends, exert power, fall in love' Of the legends recounted of those early days, many were true. Men did go hunting (for invading Nazis) armed only with broom handles and golf clubs, and museums were scoured for antique weapons. Dummy land mines made of metal soup plates were actually deployed in some places. Molotov cocktails were constructed as anti-tank weapons, using beer bottles gathered from local pubs (rather difficult to smash, but wine bottles were in shorter supply).Finding places to train was difficult: many a platoon was forced into a humiliating argument with the park keeper over their right to march on the grass, or hounded by an over-zealous caretaker from a school classroom or church hall where they had set up guard posts. Many Home Guards had no instinctive military aptitude. One recalled the first hand grenades issued to his platoon, and the man next to him saying with interest as he eagerly fingered it: “Oh, is this the pin?”Extract from The Real Dad’s Army The routine of patrols – usually involving two men on duty for two hours, before and after which they slept – soon became monotonous, but was varied by occasional thrills ... A solitary patroller, armed with a shotgun, having ‘spied a stranger standing well out in a large field’ challenged and finally shot him, only to discover that ‘the enemy’ was a scarecrow keeping guard over the farmer’s potatoes. Other ‘parachutists’ carefully stalked at this time include sheep, cows and … a stationary hedgehog mistaken in the dim light for the head of a prostrate and cunningly camouflaged soldier …The chronicle of the Wilmington [Sussex] platoon records a typical capture. ‘Our leader held them up, demanded their identity cards, and said to the man: “Do you know you have been in a prohibited area?” “Oh no he hasn’t,” snapped the girl.’Buy the bookThe Real Dad’s Army is published by Amberley at £10 and is available from the Guardian bookshop at £8.