Swimmer’s earOtitis externa (OE), or swimmer’s ear, is a common problem that causes itching, discharge and discomfort as the lining of the ear canal is inflamed by bacteria or fungal infection, or irritated by chemicals. The canal may swell so that your hearing becomes muffled. You are more likely to get OE if you have narrow ear canals, have lots of wax, long-term skin conditions such as eczema or psoriasis, wear hearing aids or enjoy poking things (including cotton buds) into your ears.Experts advise trying to keep ears dry (a plug of cotton wool with Vaseline works well when washing hair, for example). You can wipe away debris as it oozes out of your ear and try an acid spray called EarCalm, available over the counter. OE usually gets better in two to three days, though it can take up to two weeks. If it is not settling within that time, your GP can take a swab, arrange suction and prescribe drops or oral antibiotics. If you feel unwell with a fever, dizziness, worsening symptoms or blood-stained discharge from the ear, you need to see a doctor.Itchy bottomNeeding to constantly scratch your bottom is embarrassing, socially inappropriate, unhygienic and sleep-disturbing. There are three main causes; threadworm, piles and skin sensitivity. If you have kids and they are scratching their bottoms, it is best to assume they are suffering from a hard-to-spot threadworm infestation and treat all members of the family with Vermox. Long-standing anal itch is often caused by piles; engorged veins that may itch and bleed, especially if you are constipated. Piles are best managed by plenty of fluid and fibre to avoid constipation, and suppositories for a few days. See a doctor if you have recurrent or persistent bleeding, to rule out bowel disease such as cancer or colitis.In the summer, an itchy bottom is often due to skin sensitivity to sweat, chemicals in a new shower gel or waxing. Back, crack and sack waxes have a lot to answer for. Prevention involves steering clear of sweaty Lycra, showering away sweat with water only or hypoallergenic shower gels, antiseptic creams such as Sudocrem or barriers such as Vaseline to protect chafed skin.Cracked heelsCracked heels can be very uncomfortable and even bleed, as podiatrist Steve Kriss points out. “It can feel like a paper cut, and is often worse in hot weather. It’s best to start moisturising the heels well before you plan on exposing them. If the skin is dry, then the regular application of any moisturiser will do, and this should be done thoroughly and daily.” Covering the heel with cling film overnight helps the moisturiser to be absorbed. Deep, painful cuts improve with petroleum jelly (Vaseline) on a gauze dressing, available commercially as Jelonet.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Holiday hell: a mosquito feeding on an arm. Photograph: Aluma Images/Getty ImagesIngrowing nailsAnother common foot ailment that can easily be prevented. “Be careful to cut your nail straight across, and not too short,” says Kriss. “If the nail grows into the skin and is cut back, you will get temporary relief until the nail grows forward again and then you are in pain again. This cycle can only be cured by nail surgery. I am told pedicures are great, but you mustn’t allow anyone to dig too deep into the sides of the nails.”Traveller’s diarrhoea (TD)This is an unwelcome souvenir of many holidays. TD is defined as three or more loose or watery stools over 24 hours. You may feel sick, feverish, have abdominal cramps and vomit. It affects up to 60% of all travellers to high-risk areas – but you don’t need to leave the back garden to get a nasty bout of diarrhoea; undercooked meat on barbecues and food left out of the fridge on a hot day are also culprits. Food hygiene and careful hand-washing are the best form of prevention.Most infective diarrhoea settles down after three to five days, and it is important to drink enough to replace lost fluids. Oral rehydration salts are useful if it is very hot or you can’t keep anything down. Anti-diarrhoeal drugs can increase cramps but are handy if you have a long train ride to get through. Antibiotics are best avoided, unless symptoms are very severe (ciprofloxacin treats the common culprit, campylobacter, but may cause side effects). A temporary lactose intolerance is common, but rarely lasts. You will need to see a doctor if you are getting worse after a week, especially if you are losing weight, have blood in your stool or a persistent fever.BitesAnyone can be bitten by mosquitos, but about 20% of people do seem to be particularly attractive to the insects, who use sight and smell to guide them to their target. Scientists tend to give only generic advice about using insect repellents, covering up and using nets. A range of bugs bite or sting us, either to protect their territory or to feed off our blood, and some transmit diseases such as malaria or Zika.After a bite or sting, most people develop an itchy, tender lump on the skin that gets better within a few hours. There’s no need for specific treatment; a cold compress, an oral antihistamine (eg cetirizine) and 1% hydrocortisone cream may all help. Wasps don’t leave their sting behind, but bee stings should be carefully and completely removed if possible – a sharp nail or edge of a credit card work best. Bites can get infected and need oral antibiotics; signs of infection are fever and hot, tender lumps full of pus. Some people have an allergic reaction that can be dangerous; signs are swelling and itching on other parts of the body and difficulty breathing. Once you know you have an allergic reaction to bites, you may be advised to carry adrenaline with you at all times, especially on holiday.