Antimicrobial resistance, the emergence of superbugs resistant to the antibiotics that modern medicine depends on, is not a future threat looming on the horizon but a problem that is already here and likely to have a big impact on business – especially in sectors such as food and pharmaceuticals.The World Health Organisation estimates there are already 700,000 deaths globally due to antibiotic resistant infections each year, and if the problem is not addressed, this could rise to 10 million deaths per year by 2050.According to one study, 70% of bacteria around the world have already developed resistance to antibiotics, including colistin – often described as medicine’s antibiotic of last resort. The growth of factory farming has correlated closely with the development of antimicrobial-resistant bacteria. Two-thirds of antibiotic consumption in the EU and 70% of usage in the US occurs in the animal farming industry. Most often, antibiotics are not used to treat illnesses. Instead, they are preventative, as animals require regular (often daily) doses of drugs to remain healthy in their overcrowded facilities. This overuse may kill some bacteria and temporarily keep livestocks healthier, but it allows antibiotic-resistant bacteria to strengthen and increase in number, diluting the effects of antibiotics on human illnesses.'I don't see a problem': Tyson Foods CEO on factory farming and antibiotic resistance Governments have started to take action to curtail these practices and stem the rise of superbugs, which will affect all companies in the food value chain. For example, we are already seeing stricter agricultural regulation of the use of antibiotics in both the US and EU. Denmark has introduced bans on certain drugs, and California passed a bill in 2015 to sharply limit antibiotic use in factory farms. The EU’s introduction of legislation banning products in which growth-promoting antibiotics are used, led to a ban of some US beef imports that has cost the US industry many millions every year. Antibiotic-free foodAdditionally, consumer preferences are trending towards antibiotic-free meat and some companies are responding. Antibiotic-free chicken sales rose by 34% in the US in 2013, and a further 25% in 2014, constituting 11% of overall chicken sales in the US. In the UK, sales of organic products surged by 6% overall in 2016, as consumers increasingly seek out antibiotic free products with a credible, audited supply chain. Should companies fail to adapt to evolving consumer preferences, they risk falling behind their peers in the market.Some may look to the pharmaceutical sector for solutions, but despite the growing rate of drug-resistant bacteria, the number of new antibiotics approved each year by the US Food and Drug Administration has fallen dramatically in the last decade.As antibiotics tend to be short-term prescriptions, the time and resources spent developing them produce low returns. Lack of innovation has exposed the pharma sector to reputational and financial risk for failing to act as resistance grows.This year, Boston Common Asset Management joined a coalition of investors worth $1tn asking ten of the world’s largest food companies, including Yum! Brands and Domino’s, to end the routine use of antibiotics in their global meat and poultry supply chains. Is it time for an antibiotic-free label on our food? We have seen some positive results. For example, The Restaurant Group (including brands such as Frankie & Benny’s and Garfunkel’s) has committed to phase out the routine, preventative use of antibiotics in its supply chain. Perdue, one of the largest poultry manufacturers in the US, announced it had ended routine use of all antibiotics in its entire operation. Similarly, McDonald’s promised this summer to stop serving poultry treated with antibiotics in its US restaurants.Slow progressAlthough companies are taking first steps, the pace of change is far too slow. The vast majority of corporate policies on antibiotic use are either piecemeal or unambitious in their scope. While McDonald’s has made commitments on poultry in the US, the multinational food giant also sells beef, pork and dairy products in over 100 countries. For any commitment to be meaningful, it should encompass the company’s full global operations. The ideal business response necessary to curb antibiotic resistance is two-pronged. All major food producers and retailers should commit to phasing out the routine use of antibiotics in their entire supply chains. Simultaneously, the pharmaceutical industry should help mitigate the crisis by spending more resources on developing new strains of antibiotics as old ones become ineffective. At the 2016 World Economic Forum in Davos, 80 companies committed to reinvigorate the scientific research and development needed to create a new antibiotics pipeline. The new year is the time to honour these commitments. Sign up to be a Guardian Sustainable Business member and get more stories like this direct to your inbox every week. You can also follow us on Twitter.