There is nothing new in the adage that we are no longer a making economy. It’s a theme that has been picked up and echoed in most post-industrial economies over the past decade – just look at the last US presidential campaign. In the UK barely 10% of workers are employed within orthodox manufacturing; a generation ago that figure was well over four times as high. It is folly to believe mass manufacturing in its previous form, and at anything close to its previous scale, can return. But this does not have to be the existential problem it is being framed as.Last weekend in Manchester, the world’s first industrialised city, several hundred makers met at the city’s Museum of Science and Industry. They were there to take part in Europe’s first craft and innovation conference, a forum for craft professionals, scientists, roboticists, designers and tech professionals to discuss collective innovation and making. This is the real future of manufacturing: an atomised but highly networked society of makers servicing an evolving market where consumers no longer want mass-manufactured goods but products that are bespoke and have that golden element all marketeers now crave – provenance. We are becoming a society of curators where consumers want a relationship with a product and its makers, not simply a transaction. Policymakers still see this trend as relatively peripheral – a micro “hipster” economy. This is a mistake.Creating is not just a 'nice' activity; it transforms, connects and empowers The craft and making sector has created the basis for the disruptive collaboration that led to breakthroughs such as 3D printing, the application of prosthetics in surgery, and the design of the wearable technologies set to revolutionise our clothing.Craft and making can be artisanal but the myth swallowed by policymakers is that it is little more than this. A cute, niche sector. But Britain has quietly built up a £3.4bn making economy, influencing everything from the automotive industry to smartphones. It is also reshaping the way larger brands produce and engage with customers. Companies ranging from Adidas to Ikea have set up design units based on the craft innovation model. Ikea’s Space10 development in Copenhagen, for instance, is specifically based on the idea of collective co-creation.The second myth is that this new craft industry is not an employer, instead being a small ecosystem of makers and curators. Yes, the sector has not given birth to any super-companies yet but neither has the much-vaunted UK tech sector. Instead both have created not corporate monoliths but hundreds, maybe thousands, of small, highly specialised firms that are transforming our economy and the relationship between producer and consumer.Europe and America will never regain the kind of manufacturing base many crave for. But this is not a binary issue. There is a middle ground. Our technology, services and financial sectors can be joined by a fourth “making” sector that blends craft and innovation. A sector that catalyses what craft theorist David Pye termed “the workmanship of risk” where experimentation with material, not just data, leads to breakthroughs in innovation.It’s this kind of experimentation that led to the discovery of graphene, the carbon fibre projected to revolutionise manufacturing. It was a British discovery that’s now being commercialised in Britain’s making sector.Are computers killing off craft? Not a chance The UK government has played lip-service to this new making industry. George Osborne’s aspiration for a Britain “carried aloft by the march of the makers” might now be derided but he and the Treasury were in the right space. We do have a burgeoning army of makers, but they come in incredibly diverse forms, servicing an increasingly diverse consumer base: from the highly specialised teams working on the manipulation of graphene to embroiderers collaborating with roboticists to develop new forms of wearable tech.These disruptors need the level of broad-based government and private sector support that has been directed towards the tech sector. In a joint report earlier this year, the Crafts Council UK and KPMG mapped out seven areas where the craft and innovation sector needs support, from brokering and coordinating business collaborations between makers and other sectors of the economy, to the proper development of a “fused” education system to support students to develop their creative, practical talents alongside their scientific, technological and enterprise skills.And of course, more investment needs to be targeted at makers. This approach is already happening in other markets in Europe, not least Scandinavia, while China is also pushing its makers to move up the innovation value chain.In Manchester the best of Britain’s cutting-edge craft innovation was on display but our position as a global innovation leader is under threat. We must act now, to ensure Britain is at the forefront of the next industrial revolution, as it was the first.