“We lit a match with The Dazzle,” says Emily Dobbs, the fearless young producer who has taken a lease on the former home of Central Saint Martins art school in Charing Cross Road and renamed it Found111. People have besieged the box office to see Sherlock star Andrew Scott in The Dazzle by Richard Greenberg. As Dobbs herself says, it was always going to be a hard act to follow for this pop-up theatre space in the heart of the West End.Andrew Scott webchat – as it happened The upcoming March-to-April season, announced today, may not have the same star appeal but with Chris Urch’s mining drama Land of Our Fathers, and a revival of Tracy Letts’ conspiracy theory comedy Bug, Dobbs is hoping to use Found111 to re-imagine what we think West End theatre is and where it happens. Dobbs is undaunted that Urch’s play has already enjoyed a brief West End run at Trafalgar Studios, and welcomes the fact that it’s just been out on a national tour. She sees its residence at Found111 as an opportunity to give further exposure to a play that might simply have disappeared off the radar when it still had an audience to find. Casting for Bug, a two-hander, is yet to be announced.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fearless and undaunted … producer Emily Dobbs hopes the Found111 venue will change how we think about West End theatre. Photograph: Helen Maybanks“I never understand why people are sniffy about big names in shows. If it gets people into the theatre, where’s the problem with it?” says Dobbs. “If Southwark Playhouse cast Lily James in everything and she was up to the job in every case, it would fill the building – and why not if it brings in an audience?” Dobbs has already been there and done that with her 2012 producing venture, Anya Reiss’s new version of The Seagull at Southwark Playhouse, which starred James as Nina and in which Dobbs was herself a very fine Masha.Dobbs is exercised by what we mean by West End theatre and how you might manage and change expectations and find new audiences. “Part of the issue with most West End theatre is that the building itself creates an expectation of what the experience will be like. But even the way you enter Found111 generates a sense of excitement. The limited run of every show means people realise they’ve only got a pocket of time to see it and that brings an urgency to the experience that often doesn’t happen in the West End,” she says. She also points to the fact that a found space allows you to take a risk on shows that might never stand scrutiny in a traditional proscenium arch theatre.The Dazzle review – Andrew Scott is hypnotic in disturbing tale of eccentricity “The fact that The Dazzle may not have worked in a proscenium arch theatre doesn’t mean it’s not worth doing in another context and with different framing,” says Dobbs. She agrees that the flaws of Greenberg’s play, inspired by the lives and deaths of the Collyer brothers who lived and died under piles of accumulated junk, would have been more obvious if exposed in a West End theatre, even with Scott and co-star David Dawson on such blistering form. It’s why, despite plenty of interest, the show – which was co-produced by the Michael Grandage Company – won’t be transferring to an established West End theatre for a longer run. As Susannah Clapp observed, the production almost felt site-specific.“It’s the right show for the right space,” says Dobbs, “and that’s the match I’m always looking for as a producer. Found111 is a commercial venture and I don’t want to just bridge a gap between what we perceive as being fringe and West End, but reclaim the entire West End experience and what we mean by West End theatre. There is a whole generation of brilliant directors whose work seldom or never gets seen in the West End because the buildings available just aren’t suitable. I hope Found111 will help change that, because I’m certain there’s an audience for it.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Land of Our Fathers, coming soon to Found111. Photograph: Polly ThomasDobbs is not alone in wanting to rethink the West End. Back in 2014 Nick Starr, then still at the NT, commented that “we need to find more adventurous solutions” to both the lack of availability of theatres, which means shows that could and should transfer to the West End simply often don’t simply because no theatre is available, and to the fact that so many West End theatres are simply not suitable for contemporary theatre.Dobbs has plenty of time for those beautiful old buildings, but argues they can present challenges, particularly for a producer interested in creating contemporary theatre or re-imagining the classics.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We lit a match’ … The Dazzle’s Joanna Vanderham. Photograph: Marc Brenner“Some shows like [Ivo van Hove’s] A View from the Bridge or Hangmen transfer really well. But so often shows lose something in the process and are never as comfortable as they were in their original venues. The solution is to rethink how we use those old buildings but also find other spaces, and that’s where Found111 comes in. It comes with its own ghosts in the walls. We can make use of those ghosts.”The Dazzle certainly has used the ghosts exquisitely, creating a tension between the building itself, with its long history of creativity and artistic genius in its previous incarnation as Central Saint Martins, and the lives of the Collyer brothers. Both Land of Our Fathers and Bug should also play neatly on Found111’s ability to create atmosphere and claustrophobia.“It’s all in the juxtapositions,” says Dobbs. “I look across Charing Cross Road and I see Bend It Like Beckham playing in the theatre opposite, and here we are in Found111 trying to do something on a different scale and in a different way. There’s room for both of us. In a way, what we’re doing is turning the commercial model on its head and saying small can be beautiful. You don’t have to be a grand West End theatre or big producing house to create work of high quality that sells tickets. It feels like a moment, as if we might be on the cusp of something.”Tickets for Land of our Fathers are on sale from today. 