It’s seldom, if ever, that a piece of theatre changes the world. But it can challenge the way we think about it and provide a forum to do so. As Simon Stephens observed in his Working Diary: “I don’t think that theatre has ever been more important. In a world dislocated and disengaged by technology, it is the one forum in which we are encouraged to sit next to people we have never met before and look in one direction and share a live experience that exercises our brains and our sense of aesthetic. It is necessarily a mirror to ourselves. The responsibility of the artist is to decide what that mirror will show and how it will allow the light to fall.”That’s true, but it’s rare to come across a piece of theatre, such as Chris Thorpe’s Confirmation, which really makes you question what you think. Or a show that so enrages you that it sends you back out into the world determined to actually do something. The urge to feel “useful and not just decorative” – as someone put it during the 2008-09 Gaza war – is a strong one for increasing numbers of theatre-makers, for whom art and activism are entwined. Their lives, politics and practice are one and the same, feeding into each other. Unlike previous generations of political playwrights who saw their plays as a means of excavating the state of the nation and the world, these are artists for whom making theatre and being involved in politics are intrinsically related and for whom direct action can be part of their artistic practice.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I feel a responsibility’ … Naomi Wallace. Photograph: Andrew H Walker/Getty ImagesSo it is for the American playwright Naomi Wallace, whose richly lyrical plays, tender yet flinty, have always made the connection between the then and now, the here and there. Wallace understands how the everyday lives of ordinary people around the world are shaped by power, politics and history. She has joined the Women’s Boat to Gaza, a Freedom Flotilla Coalition initiative that has sent all-female-crewed boats to Gaza as part of the attempt to break the blockade which has had such a dire effect on everyday life in Gaza. Particularly the lives of women and children.For Wallace, the mission provides an additional opportunity to raise awareness of the barriers preventing Palestinian stories from being heard on US stages. In spring, New York’s Public theatre cancelled performances of The Siege by the Freedom Theatre, a production seen widely in the UK, which was based on Israel’s siege of the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem during its 2002 invasion of the West Bank. It’s not the first time that the Public has uninvited Palestinian theatre-makers: back in 1989, Joe Papp cancelled a visit by the El Hakawati company. In 2006, New York Theatre Workshop cancelled plans for a production of My Name Is Rachel Corrie – co-edited by the Guardian’s Katharine Viner and actor Alan Rickman – about the young American peace-worker killed by an Israeli bulldozer. Wallace herself has found it difficult to get plays with a Palestinian theme staged. Her co-adaptation with a Palestinian-American writer, Ismail Khalidi, of Ghassan Kanafani’s Returning to Haifa was commissioned by the Public theatre, but will not now play there.As Wallace says: “Even if you disagree with the voices, they still deserve to be heard.” She points out that in the US powerful boards with money and influence can shape the programmes of theatres to a degree unheard of in the UK, and that some theatres might be nervous of losing funding that could be used to stage five other plays all raising important issues. “The American theatregoing public doesn’t even know about what it isn’t allowed to see.”Wallace has spent her working life as a playwright uncovering the connections between different struggles and the flashpoints when they meet: “There are many different kinds of blockades, and if I can highlight some of them by doing this, I feel a responsibility to do it.”