Consumers are to be asked whether they will accept traces of horsemeat in their food if it proves too costly and technically difficult to check thoroughly for levels of contamination under 1%.Catherine Brown, chief executive of the Food Standards Agency, revealed on Tuesday that special citizens' forums were being established to gauge the "consumer acceptability" of low levels of other species' DNA in beef, pork or other meats.Twenty products in the UK have so far been found to have 1% or higher levels of horse DNA following more than 5,400 industry tests and more than 6,000 in all.But Brown told the FSA board that contamination of horse and pork had also been found at "very low" levels in processed beef.This could occur where a meat processing or cutting plant was dealing with more than one species. "Even with thorough cleaning and good hygienic practice, traces of DNA of one species can carry over to other products."At present, the FSA was using a 1% level as "pragmatic". She added: "The question we want to explore is what levels are achievable, detectable and acceptable." Brown said the Laboratory of the Government Chemist was looking at what levels of crossover contamination could occur in "a well-run and hygienic plant".Authorities were also looking at testing methodologies to gauge how robust tests could be. "Finally, there is the question of consumer acceptability. We need to have a better understanding of how consumers view trace contamination. Is it acceptable at certain low levels? If not, what are the trade-offs between cost and trace?"Brown said that as well as the FSA's moves to set up consumer forums, the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and the Department for Communities and Local Government were exploring the implications for religious groups for whom some contamination, however low, was unacceptable.She revealed that testing of beef imports from outside the European Union had now started. Although there was no suggestion that human health had been at risk because of contamination, there had already been a significant effect on consumer attitudes."We conducted an online consumer survey as part of our preparations for the citizens' forums. About half the consumers we surveyed say they will purchase less processed meat or ready meals."The main reason for this was stated as a general lack of trust – 67% of people gave us the reason, much more than the 35% who said they didn't want to eat horsemeat. And those general concerns have now been reflected in sales figures."Brown said the agency had been "irritated" by suggestions it had been caught asleep on the job by the horsemeat scandal. "If we missed something, so did our counterparts in every [EU] member state, and every food business in the UK and Europe."However, the agency was considering whether it needed further powers to police the food industry. There were also questions about its relationship with its Irish counterpart, which had recently told the Irish Dáil that the Food Safety Authority of Ireland was aware of the possibility of horsemeat in meat products "several weeks before they shared that intelligence with us".