Festivalgoers in Edinburgh will witness the city’s birth from volcanic eruptions and the crushing force ice in a late-night spectacular that will open this year’s events.To mark the start of the international festival next Sunday night, a digital light show will be beamed on to Edinburgh Castle and the chiseled bulk of Castle Rock – the remnant of a volcano that erupted 350m years ago.With a soundtrack specially edited from four songs by the Scottish rock band Mogwai, 42 high-powered projectors will use the western face of the rock and castle as the canvas for a computer-generated, 3D animation intended to tell the story of the city’s geological history in 18 minutes.The one-off show is called Deep Time, a reference to the discoveries of James Hutton, an amateur scientist from Edinburgh widely acknowledged as being the father of modern geology. A friend and contemporary of the economist Adam Smith and the philosopher David Hume, Hutton is credited with proving that the Earth’s crust and rocks were being constantly formed and reformed over long geological ages, and not by a single act of God or a series of catastrophes. Published in 1785, Hutton’s findings were quickly refined by his colleagues and successors, helping to pave the way for Charles Darwin’s theory of evolution by establishing that the planet was consistently changing. Hutton also sketched out a theory of natural selection in 1794. Deep Time has been devised by 59 Productions, the Tony award winners who created last year’s opening festival event, the Harmonium Project, which was beamed on to the Usher Hall, as well as the video sequences for the 2012 London Olympics opening ceremony and light show events for Boeing, the UN and Sydney Opera House.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Harmonium Project, also created by 59 Productions, was beamed on to Usher Hall during last year’s Edinburgh festival. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianThe producers created a highly accurate 3D-printed model of the castle – based on laser scans, aerial and ground-based photographs of the site – to help write and design the show. They worked closely with geologists at the University of Edinburgh in devising the script for the first of three shows they have been contracted to make for the festival. Deep Time will be staged without a full dress rehearsal. Instead 59 Productions will project live segments of the show against the castle late at night this week before showing it to 27,000 people gathered under the rock in a cordoned off, ticketed area on Sunday night.Leo Warner, a creative director at 59 Productions, said the show would run through the city’s volcanic birth and geological formation, its biological evolution and then its human period, including Hutton’s discoveries.Trip the light fantastic: Edinburgh's Harmonium Project – in pictures “Then it becomes a very high octane rewind to the origins of the universe. It’s very, very rapid and musically driven,” said Warner. The company has done work using architecture and public spaces before, he said, adding: “But what is quite unique for us is this canvas, this organic surface. When we have done projection tests, it transformed what we were applying to it in a completely unexpected way. The main player is the castle and the rock.”The castle already plays a central role in the city’s summer festival season. The military tattoo has been staged on the castle esplanade for 66 years and the castle will be the backdrop and launchpad for a vast firework display that traditionally marks the end of the international festival every year.Edinburgh’s skyline is dominated by Castle Rock, Calton Hill nearby, the dramatic volcanic remnants of Arthur’s Seat and the cliffs of Salisbury Crags, but festival events rarely focus on the city’s geological history.Scouring Scotland, Hutton found newer horizontal sedimentary rocks over ancient layers that had been twisted or left vertical, or rocks enfolded by once-molten granite. Salisbury Crags was one of the formations Hutton studied – there is an area known as Hutton’s Section and an outcrop known as Hutton’s Rock.Prof Hugh Sinclair, a specialist in surface geology and one of 59 Productions’ advisers, said he felt frustrated that there was no statue to Hutton anywhere in Edinburgh, despite the huge significance of his work.