Welcome to this week’s roundup of the latest, greatest Android apps and games, covering smartphones and tablets.All these apps have been released for the first time – ie not updates – since the last roundup. All prices are correct at the time of writing, with “IAP” indicating use of in-app purchases.You can read the previous Best Android Apps roundups for more recommendations, but if iOS is your platform of choice, check the Best iPhone and iPad Apps roundups. On with this week’s selection!      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Microsoft Hyperlapse for Android.AppsMicrosoft Hyperlapse Mobile (Free)Fresh out of beta, this is Microsoft’s app for turning your videos into time-lapsed films, speeding up the action up to 32 times faster than the original footage. It also uses stabilisation technology to de-jerkify the experience for viewers on the various social sites it posts to.WifiMapper (Free)This is one of the most useful apps you can have on your Android device if you regularly find yourself hunting for public Wi-Fi. It’s a database of more than 650m hotspots around the world, including the free ones.Booking Now (Free)This is a standalone app from travel site Booking.com, responding to competition from the likes of HotelTonight in the ‘I need somewhere to kip at short notice’ market. You can quickly browse nearby hotels, B&Bs and apartments and book them from within the app.Musical.ly (Free)If your Facebook feed is full of friends and relatives lip-syncing film clips and music choruses using the Dubsmash app, be aware: soon you may be seeing Musical.ly clips too. It’s a video-sharing app for lip-syncing to songs or adding sound effects to other videos, then sharing the results on social sites.HeadTrainer (Free + IAP)This is an interesting idea: a brain-training app that aims to improve your sporting abilities. That means a series of mini-games testing your focus, visual-spatial awareness, decision-making, memory and processing speed, with sporty themes and social features.HBO Now (Free + IAP)Being based in the UK, I haven’t been able to try this app, but it’s been keenly-awaited in the US – the standalone streaming service from cable network HBO. Cable-cutters can watch new and archived shows from the firm, paying $14.99 a month for the privilege.Tiles Instagram Lock Screen (Free)Want to be reminded of just how spiffing your friend’s filtered noodles looked last night? You need Tiles. It’s an app that pulls your Instagram feed onto your Android device’s lock screen, including a feature to set which mates you do and don’t want to see.DogVacay (Free)Booking Now might be for humans looking for a berth for the night, but DogVacay caters for their four-legged best friends. It’s an app for the online service to browse, book and pay pet sitters in the US and Canada, complete with reviews of their work.Red Bull Alert (Free)Good news, lovers of branded alarm-clock apps! Red Bull has a new one that promises to “wake you with inspiring photos and alarm sounds”, although it’ll also track how long it takes you to turn off the alarm and encourage you to do better, like some kind of motivational snooze-o-phobic.Loyalive (Free)Finally, an Android app for storing details of your loyalty cards, so you can quickly check how many points you’ve racked up and whether you’re eligible for a reward. It’s fully UK-friendly, with more than 70 cards eligible from Starbucks and Boots to Nectar and Tesco Clubcard.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   This War of Mine for Android.GamesThis War of Mine (£7.99)War, but as experienced by civilians rather than soldiers. This game has picked up rave reviews on other platforms, and deservedly so: it’s a gripping adventure as you try to help your group survive in a war-torn city, avoiding snipers and foraging for supplies. It’s a wonderful game.Mission Impossible: Rogue Nation (Free + IAP)A new Mission Impossible film is on its way to cinemas, and publisher Glu Mobile is anticipating it with the official game. The company knows this territory (guns, action, big film brands) well, so this looks a polished adventure blending shooting and strategy.Warhammer 40,000: Space Wolf (Free + IAP)As a youth I was more of a Blood Bowl fan than Warhammer 40,000, but the latter series has a large fanbase to this day, when it’s being reinvented digitally. This is an engaging take on the world of Space Wolves and Space Marines, with a blend of solo campaigning and player-versus-player battling.Million Arthur (Free + IAP)Here’s a nice twist on the card-battling genre: a game based on the legend of King Arthur. Who, thanks to Disney, I can’t imagine without a talking owl named Archimedes. None of that here though: this blends Arthurian myths with anime visuals, as you follow your destiny to become king.Wars and Battles (£5.99 + IAP)A treat for sofa generals here, because this styles itself more as “a platform of turn-based wargames”. What that means is an engine powering skirmishes across a range of conflicts: Normandy 1944 is one of the draws at launch, but other scenarios including The Korean War are following as extra packs.Mountain Goat Mountain (Free + IAP)There’s definitely some Crossy Road DNA in this latest game from Zynga, although it’s no straight copy. Here, you control a goat leaping up a mountain while avoiding hazards, and collecting “goat hats” (goat hats are a thing?) that can change the environment. It’s good fun.Dragon Ball Z Dokkan Battle (Free + IAP)If you’re new to Bandai Namco’s Dragon Ball Z franchise, this might be a good way in. It’s a colourful battling game that’s only been available in Japan until now: you build teams of fighters and send them off to scrap, with a boardgame feel wrapped around the action. RPG Tears Revolude (£3.99)Continuing that theme, here’s a prime slice of Japanese RPG (JRPG) from a developer that specialises in the genre: Kemco. It’s a reassuringly old-school roleplaying game involving “command” based battles, diligent character-upgrading, and a story with plenty of twists.Redden (£1.91)This is interesting: a game where you don’t play characters, but which instead encourages you to “be a tool”. Quiet at the back there. From arrows and bullets to shuriken, your job is to make them fly through the air and hit targets, with lush graphics.Stuntman Stuart (Free + IAP)“No goats,” promises the Google Play listing for this diverting action game. Is the lack of goats now a selling point for mobile games? Nobody tell Zynga if so… But yes, this is a fun pixel-art take on the world of stunts and stuntmen.That’s my choice, but what Android apps and games have you been enjoying this week? The comments section is open for your recommendations.