Fifteen-year-olds are the purest pop consumers, concerned only with the here and now of an artist, and untroubled by where they’ve been or where they’re going. In the early 70s, while the rest of the British public were gingerly working out how to deal with the bisexual Martian who had landed in the charts, teenagers were in love with him.The alchemy Bowie exerted ensured that the front rows of the Ziggy Stardust tour were jammed with them, screaming and clutching at the air between themselves and the stage. A photo of Bowie arriving at the Hammersmith Odeon for the last Ziggy gig on 3 July 1973 shows his car surrounded by a knot of fans, all of them young and some – bravely, for the time – wearing their hair in adulatory Martian quiffs. A contemporary account claims that show was almost bacchanalian. According to a fan called Julie, who was quoted in the 1985 book Starlust: The Secret Fantasies of Fans, some of the boys in the crowd were so wowed by Bowie that they tore their clothes off, while others were happy simply to trample the people next to them. Was David Bowie saying goodbye on Blackstar? “I thought it was so extraordinary because nobody had any inhibitions,” she told Starlust’s author, Fred Vermorel. “I remember that around me nobody gave a shit really about doing these things because it was rumoured that maybe this was the last time Bowie would perform.”Even those who witnessed it have probably since forgotten that Bowie was once a teen idol. Enshrined in the collective consciousness as British rock’s beloved grandee, his last decade was as far removed as it’s possible to be from the era of uninhibited, Lurex-spangled Ziggy. Yet it’s easy to see why he once hit teenagers with such force. As the beautiful androgyne who had been entrusted with a message of hope to the world – the premise of 1972’s Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders from Mars – he was enormously appealing to people who came of age just as the 60s ended with the tinkle of hippie dreams shattering. There he was, the spaceboy from the future, speaking to teenagers from the outer cosmos via the original version of the internet, also known as the radio. His appearance bespoke endless possibilities: teens are fascinated with remaking and masking themselves, and Bowie was a lightning rod for that – he’d grown up in a tiny terraced house in the unglamorous south London outpost of Sundridge Park, Bromley, and look what he turned into.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest He even anticipated the effect he’d have. The track Starman opened with a couplet that painted a picture any kid in a suburban bedroom would recognise: “Didn’t know what time it was and the lights were low / I leaned back on my radio …” It was as if Bowie were in that same bedroom, benignly registering the kid’s amazement at being spoken to by an actual starman: “I had to phone someone so I picked on you / Hey, that’s far out, so you heard him too! / Switch on the TV we may pick him up on channel two / Look out your window I can see his light / If we can sparkle, he may land tonight.” That was powerful stuff: sparkle enough and he might arrive in your street.Bowie in quotes: 'I wouldn't like to make singing a full-time occupation' I visited his teenage home last month while making a piece for Radio 4 about suburbia’s role in inspiring creativity. Surprisingly, the current owner let us in for a quick look around. Bowie’s bedroom, occupied by him between the ages of eight and 18, was a boxroom upstairs at the back. As a typically moody teenager, he apparently threw albums into the garden when he didn’t like them. The house was smaller than I’d expected – two up, two down and a steep stairway connecting them – and in the narrow hallway, you could just about picture Bowie striding out of the front door, desperate to make his mark on the world. Like every teenager everywhere. 