Stargazing Live Australia8pm, BBC2For this new series, Brian Cox and Dara O Briain trade Jodrell Bank for its equivalent on the other side of the world: the Siding Spring Observatory, situated on a mountaintop in New South Wales. As the dawn approaches, Brian and Dara are joined by Liz Bonnin to discuss what they spotted overnight, along with input from outback astronomer Greg Quicke, who is acting as their guide to the sprawling southern skies. Ben ArnoldRio Ferdinand: Being Mum and Dad9pm, BBC1In 2015, former footballer Rio Ferdinand’s wife Rebecca died of breast cancer. In this brave and poignant film, Ferdinand uses his struggle to process this tragedy as the starting point for an exploration of grief, fatherhood under duress and men’s difficulties with acknowledging their own emotional needs. In doing so, he shines a light on resources available to those in similar circumstances and makes great strides of his own. Admirable. Phil HarrisonAmerican Justice9pm, BBC2A raised eyebrow is implied by the title of this sober three-part documentary series, which examines Florida’s often peculiarly robust attitudes to crime and punishment. This week, detectives investigate a shooting at an apartment complex in Jacksonville, where three gunmen have fired more than 50 rounds at a group of 10 people, including a baby. Meanwhile, Lenard Anderson is on trial for shooting another black man in a strip club. David StubbsMutiny9pm, Channel 4Avast and furious: this gruelling reality show retracing Captain Bligh’s 18th-century journey from Tonga to Timor in a tiny tub has generated a few casualties along the way. One mariner was evacuated with a gruesome hand injury, while another turned out to be so disruptive he should consider himself lucky not to have been keelhauled. With SAS expert Ant Middleton still on deck, though, the remaining crew attempt the final, arduous 1,200-mile push. Graeme VirtueGravity and Me: The Force That Shapes Our Lives9pm, BBC4Terrific Jim Al-Khalili doc investigating the force that doesn’t merely prevent us from drifting inconveniently into the skies, but wrangles our universe around us. Al-Khalili recreates some of the experiments that have contributed to our present understanding of gravity and reflects on the surprising amount we still don’t know. As ever with Al-Khalili’s science films, there’s an engaging sense that he’s still finding things out himself. Andrew MuellerFake! The Great Masterpiece Challenge8pm, Sky ArtsYes, it should be called the Great British Fake Off. But this is actually a slightly more scholarly sounding bit of silliness, as Rose Balston and Giles Coren host a new series in which members of the public attempt to spot the works of arts in UK museums that have been replaced with forgeries. Sounds very difficult, but we’re promised meetings with the artists behind the fakes, who should explain a few things. John RobinsonPassions9pm, Sky ArtsThe 18th-century outsider visionary William Blake was derided as mad during his lifetime and is still perhaps underrated today, with his visual art eclipsed by his poem Jerusalem. Multimedia artist Alison Lapper hails her hero’s radical push for freedom of expression and says that Blake’s nonconformism is as important now as it was 200 years ago. She discerns his influence in the work of Bob Dylan, Patti Smith, Walt Whitman and WB Yeats. Jack SealeFilm choiceYouth (Paolo Sorrentino, 2015) 9pm Film4Sorrentino’s last excursion into elderly reverie, The Great Beauty, was set amid the glories of Rome. Youth plays out in a Swiss spa, but is just as visually seductive. Michael Caine is composer Fred Ballinger, undergoing a luxurious health check and hanging out with old mucker, movie director Mick Boyle (Harvey Keitel). The old geezers gaze on beautiful young women and ponder their lost youth in an effortlessly elegant work. Paul HowlettLive sportCycling: 3 Days of De Panne Coverage of stage one, which takes the riders on a journey from De Panne to Zottegem. 1pm, Eurosport 2Tennis: The Miami Open Coverage of the seventh day at the Tennis Center at Crandon Park. 4pm, Sky Sports 1Test cricket: India v Australia The final day’s play in the last Test of the series in Dharamsala. 3.50am, Sky Sports 2