I first met Louiza Patikas at a party a few years ago. It was too good an opportunity to pass up, so I cornered her to find out what she thought Helen Titchener, the character she plays in The Archers, looked like. We all have our fixed visual ideas of radio people, at variance with others (“No way! She’s dark!”) and seldom borne out by the disappointing photographs that occasionally appear in the press. Patikas said then, and reiterates now, “I think she’s tall, rangy; she’d have a long stride, thick blonde hair, very slim, a kind face, but quite pointy features, and tidily dressed, so probably jeans and a Boden top, farming office wear. She’d always wear a watch – I’ve never worn a watch in my life. She’d look particularly good in blue. And she would use those beauty products you buy in health food shops, Weleda. I don’t think we’d go shopping together, or even to the same shops.”Helen back then was a neurotic, highly strung pain in the neck, an organic cheesemaker with a history of anorexia and failed relationships. We were laughing at her for her humourlessness, her pained journey through life and her overbearing attitude to those who tried to thwart her. Then came the transformation into a tragic heroine. This week, Helen has been standing trial for the attempted murder of her husband Rob Titchener, an abusive practitioner of the new criminal offence of coercive control and “gaslighting” – a form of psychological abuse in which a victim is manipulated into doubting their own memory, perception and sanity.On Tuesday, we heard Helen’s tightly coiled vocal chords break down into a description of the serial rapes she had endured in her marriage. Patikas’s performance has been universally praised for its range, power and texture of emotions, which have left many listeners in tears. Why didn’t she leave, fans have asked, and still ask of people in abusive relationships. Her performance on Tuesday made it clear: shame.Despite having played Helen for 16 years, Patikas, now 39 and facing a barrage of publicity, is virtually unknown. She doesn’t have a Wikipedia entry and has never been recognised on the street. It is extremely difficult to find Helen in the shorter, pleasingly rounder, dark-haired woman with the Greek name, wearing a hot-orange, sheep-frightening Vivienne Westwood dress. When Patikas saw the drawings made of the fictional trial by a real court artist, she said, “She hasn’t been able to have her highlights done in prison, has she?” And, “So that’s what I’d look like if I was thinner.” Her lack of public profile is partly a result of her working only a few days a month on the Archers and focusing on bringing up her two sons, aged seven and five. She lives in a large basement flat in west London with her actor husband Jonathan Aris, who has appeared in Sherlock and Wolf Hall.On Sunday night, the trial concludes with a special one-hour episode, including the jury room deliberations, with jurors played by Eileen Atkins, Nigel Havers, Catherine Tate and, in an unusual twist of self-referentiality, Graham Seed, who in his incarnation as Nigel Pargetter fell from the roof to his death during the 60th anniversary episode in 2011. Sunday’s episode was recorded last Saturday, and when we met on Wednesday Patikas had only known Helen’s fate for a few days, weeks after the trial recordings. Her mother had warned her to “manage her expectations” and look for other work, in case Helen is found guilty and disappears to become a silent character in the prison system.Having played Helen since she left drama school 16 years ago, Patikas has lived with the abuse story in her head for the past three years: “It has been much like it has been for the audience, because they’ve been through the same journey as I have with Helen. But it has been extraordinary, because – as much as we all knew it was a very powerful storyline – none of us anticipated the impact. I haven’t just walked into a part, like the theatre. There’s a huge backstory to Helen and her family, and to carry all the back knowledge into this has been really devastating.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A BBC sketch of Helen in the dock, by a real courtroom artist. Illustration: Julia Quenzler/BBC“It’s been very creatively rewarding, but I’ve read scripts and thought, ‘I don’t want this to happen to her, I can’t bear it.’ One of the things that really struck me when I met a survivor of domestic abuse – and I met quite a few of them – was how her whole central nervous system was jangled and messed up, and although her story was very different to Helen’s, this was the most valuable thing I learned. All your senses are incredibly acute – you hear and smell what you wouldn’t normally, every noise is a potential threat.”Patikas’s father is Greek and her mother English. She lived in Athens until she was six, when her parents separated and she and her mother moved to Reigate. “It was Surrey all the way until the summers, when we spent every six weeks with my incredible Greek grandmother and my dad. My family come from a village in the Peloponnese which, when I was little, was very basic, and there were many parallels to Ambridge life – people living on and off the land, livelihoods being dependent on weather, bureaucracy and that fantastic thing of multi-generational living, constantly referencing the three or four generations before that.”At home in Surrey, there was no Radio 4, and Patikas did not hear The Archers until she was in her late teens, while a passenger in a car that a friend was driving. “It was a regular journey over the summer and at the end of it I thought, ‘This is completely brilliant,’ and I was an occasional listener on and off after that. I knew who everybody was, but I didn’t follow every story. When I got the part, I remember thinking in my naivety, ‘This is the best day of my life, this is it, this is my dream job,’ and I still think that today.”Patikas’s younger son started school this week, leaving her free for the first time to pursue other parts. Over the summer she has been filming the second series of the ITV drama Unforgotten, playing a pathologist. The outgoing editor of The Archers, Sean O’Connor, has recently taken the job of producer on EastEnders, and I speculate that he might like to take her with him. “Oh my goodness,” she says, startled, “I would never leave The Archers, though they might get rid of me. I can’t quite see myself in Walford, but you never know. I would relish the opportunity to work with Sean in any way in the future.”The recording of the night of the stabbing was different from anything Patikas had done before. “It was very emotional on every level,” she says. “You can go in, do a fairly controlling scene with Rob and Helen, Tim [Watson, the actor who plays Rob] and I would be chatting beforehand, telling a few jokes, but this was a very different vibe right from the beginning. Tim Stimpson, the lead writer, was in the studio with us the whole time and that really helped with the focus, because it was big stuff to do.“There was a lot of choreographing of the actual stabbing, that was done separately with no emotions. Then the next scene after that was incredibly powerful also, because the scenes I’d been doing for a year were largely just me and Tim in the studio, reflecting the isolation of Helen, and then suddenly there are many actors in the room with me, the paramedics and the police.”Patikas’s husband grew up with The Archers and remains a fan of the show. “He really likes Helen,” she says, “because she has never been written or performed in a way that’s trying to be likeable. But he doesn’t want to know what’s going to happen, so he tries not to make eye contact in case he thinks he can read me. After the big stuff, I came back and was quite quiet, and said it had been absolutely exhausting and upsetting.”Like the whole country, Patikas wants justice for Helen and damnation for Rob. “I always said to Sean that I really hope it’s a redemptive storyline, because we all need that at some point, but it’s his call.” In the end, though, it’s out of her control.The hour-long special of The Archers, with jury deliberations and verdict, is on Radio 4 on 11 September at 7pm.The key charactersWarning – contains details of this week’s episodesHelenCheesemaker who began an affair with Rob after years of personal turmoil. She stabbed Rob after his angry reaction to her decision to leave. Testified this week that he raped her “over and over again”.RobLeft his wife Jess (who also testified this week that he raped her) for Helen and slowly began to take control of her life. Nearly died of his injuries, but recovered to see Helen again in court.HenryHelen’s son, conceived with donor sperm and later adopted by Rob. Was present at the stabbing. A key witness at the trial and testified that the couple had been fighting because Rob was angry.KirstyHelen’s best friend. Was first at the scene after the attack and told the police about Rob’s abuse, but had no proof. As a witness, she was threatened with contempt of court for accusing Rob of being “the worst kind of abuser”.