They say the age of great movie dialogue is over, but frankly my dear, I don’t give a damn. Like everything else in the movie business, it comes down to money, and a sophisticated script comes at a higher cost these days. Give a film the simplest possible storyline and the gruffest, blankest language and it will play in every conceivable territory with ease. So, because a stripped-down story with the minimum of dialogue is easier to translate, that’s what we get. Who cares about nuance when you are selling tickets around the globe?In contrast to the stars of these films, the stats speak volumes. Matt Damon has only 45 lines as the lead in the latest Bourne film; Ryan Gosling just 19 in Only God Forgives. By comparison, Tom Hardy was positively loquacious in Mad Max: Fury Road, with his 52-line script. It sounds like a terrible decline in standards. Snappy, quotable dialogue has long been one of the best things about the cinema, elevating a good film to a great one. Would our movie idols be quite so glamorous without their devastating one-liners, which reveal they are every bit as sharp as they are beautiful? The pithy statements that express the feelings us clumsy popcorn-munchers struggle to articulate?Words are losing their power. Not even Jason Bourne can save them now | Catherine Shoard Just as we’ll always have Paris, they can’t take the joy of lines like: “Who’s on first” or “I wonder if you wonder” away from us. The same goes for “You talkin’ to me?” and “Fasten your seatbelts, it’s going to be a bumpy night”. I’d argue that in many cases, from the bitterness of Glengarry Glen Ross to the pop-culture joshing of Pulp Fiction to the lovable wit of Fred and Ginger singing A Fine Romance, cinema can be a showcase for brilliant wordplay. But when movie dialogue loses its sparkle, the entire film falls flat. I’d rather the dialogue was cut to the bone than reduced to dreary, characterless exposition of the “Oh my God” and “You gotta see this!” exclamations that punctuate CGI-bonanza blockbusters. Film-makers sometimes seem to worry that if they don’t keep the actors yakking, we’ll lose interest altogether. Remember the breathtaking space-scapes of Alfonso Cuarón’s Gravity? Then remember the repetitive, weighty chatter that brought the whole film back to Earth with a bump.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest ‘I wonder if you wonder.’ Double Indemnity in 1944There was a time before dialogue, of course, before the movies turned into the talkies and an artform that was once visual risked becoming “photographs of people talking”, in Alfred Hitchcock’s memorable phrase. In the first films, there was no sound or captions. Movies had to tell their stories without words of any kind. Even when films became more complex, requiring more frequent and more elaborate intertitles, movie writers were at pains not to interrupt the flow of the film with too many of them – and they kept them short. So you don’t have characters declaring their love, they show it instead, which is far sexier. And with a little of the story left unsaid – the sweet nothings those lovers whisper to each other, the insults hurled in rage or the calls for help – the audience fills in the gap. That way, part of the story lives on screen, and another deep in your own imagination. For a talkie to seep into your subconscious that way, the dialogue, like everything else, must be perfect – a complement to, rather than a distraction from, the story.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest ‘When the movies began to talk, they talked in the tradition of those pithy title cards.’ Flesh and the Devil in 1926That’s how cinema evolved first to show, rather than tell, which remains a maxim for aspiring screenwriters. And when the movies began to talk, they talked in the tradition of those pithy title cards – packing a wallop of meaning into a few short lines. In the early sound era, even films that crammed in as much dialogue as possible, like The Front Page (1931), barely wasted a word. And not to labour the point, but how many of your favourite movie lines are classics of understatement? “Houston, we have a problem”, “I’ve a feeling we’re not in Kansas any more”, or “You’re gonna need a bigger boat” – all of them allow the screen, not the soundtrack, to tell the story.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest ‘You’re gonna need a bigger boat.’ Jaws in 1975Audiences also like characters who know when to shut up, or barely talk at all. Clint Eastwood’s Man With No Name and Harry Callahan say so little that when they speak, we listen. And count the bullets. Arnold Schwarzenegger had only 18 lines in The Terminator, but one of them was “I’ll be back”, so who needs any more? There are more exciting things to do on screen than talk, after all. All the time that film characters are chatting, they aren’t dancing, or fighting or making love. The best films know how to strike a balance: take There Will be Blood, which eases us back into its early 20th-century setting with an extended dialogue-free opening sequence, then kicks us out of the cinema with “I drink your milkshake!” echoing in our ears.Whether it helps to sell tickets or not, I’d rather have no dialogue than bad dialogue. For every offer I can’t refuse, or woman who’s “not bad, just drawn that way”, there’s a din of dodgy dialogue assaulting my brain. So until Hollywood can get back to its witty best, I will enjoy the silence. What do you mean? I am serious, and don’t call me Shirley.