Vast swathes of forest are so brittle and bone-dry that they burn up in an instant. A vicious wildfire, whipped up by hot, arid winds and moving faster than anything in recent memory, consumed tens of thousands of hectares in a matter of hours. Hundreds of homes and at least one person were lost in an inferno that took days to get under control. That’s in California’s north.If you drove south on the same day last month, and you would have found darkened skies and heavy sheets of rain pounding the parched earth around Los Angeles. By noon on 15 September, the city had received 63.5mm of rain, that’s 10 times the precipitation the area usually gets in the entire month. The city has only seen two other storms like it in the past 150 years.El Niño expected to hit US hard, but not enough to ease California drought Rather than relief, the water brought chaos. Thousands lost power and hundreds of cars crashed on flooded roads, according to the Los Angeles Times. Almost one million litres of stormwater surged from San Gabriel sewers, contaminating the river and beaches dozens of kilometres downstream. At least one home plunged down a hillside as the earth beneath it was suddenly washed away. Ten people had to be plucked from rushing, rain-swollen rivers by rescue crews.For months – for four years, really – California has been dying for a drink. Repeated dry winters and scorching hot summers have depleted reservoirs and river systems and set fire to much of the land. But now that the rain might finally be coming, carried along by an El Niño that promises to be one of the strongest in recent history, the ground isn’t ready to absorb it. The same drought that makes the state so desperate for water has also baked the earth and denuded the landscape. Forests that once strengthened the soil and soaked up rainfall have been obliterated by fire. “El Niño is a cruel system,” Australian climatologist Roger Stone, a University of Southern Queensland professor and a programme chair the UN’s World Meteorological Organisation, said. “They bring relief, but they bring too much rain too quickly. That’s when you get mudslides, landslides, topsoil washed away.”Poor California. When it’s not “extraordinarily hostile” fires, as veteran firefighter Kevin Rosado described the Valley fire north of San Francisco, it’s the “Godzilla” El Niño forecasted in a few months.For a while, they’ll both be happening at once. September and October are usually the “largest and most damaging months for fires,” California Fire Chief information officer Daniel Berlant told Wired magazine. Meanwhile, stronger than usual storms are starting to arrive. “You have leftover intense drought patterns lingering in the system and now here comes the El Niño effect,” Stone said. “You’ve got both pummelling you at the same time.”Climate change isn’t necessarily causing these phenomena, but it makes them both worse, he added. Periods of scorching heat and drought are natural in California, but global warming has exacerbated them, scientists say. In El Niño years, the warmer air over the oceans makes storms slightly more fierce – a difference that can mean a lot by the time the rain reaches the ground.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Los Angeles had almost 65mm of rainfall on 15 September, but the storm brought chaos rather than drought relief. Photograph: Frederic J Brown/GettyLast month’s record storm  was a remnant of Hurricane Linda, which fizzled out over the Pacific in early September. It’s not quite the big El Niño storms that scientists have been talking about – those won’t come until winter. But it got a boost from the notorious climate pattern, which tends to strengthen hurricanes in the eastern Pacific (like Linda). And, experts say, it’s a sign of what’s to come. “It has the El Niño footprint,” though it wasn’t an El Niño storm, climatologist Bill Patzert with the Jet Propulsion Laboratory told the LA Times. The storms expected for this winter will resemble the September one – huge doses of concentrated, heavy rain – but probably even more intense. In the winter of 1997 to 1998, California’s most severe El Niño on record brought 6-metre waves and 130km/h winds. Floods and mudslides killed 17 people and caused more than half a billion dollars in damage. There’s no question that winter rain will be a welcome reprieve from four years of drought. A study released last month found that the snowpack that California relies on for most of its moisture is lowest it’s been in 500 years. Nasa says that California’s “rain debt” for the past three years is about 500mm equivalent to an entire year of rain. Water, wherever it comes from, can only help. What happens this winter is going to be interesting. And it’s not entirely clear whether California wins or loses.Daniel Swain, climate scientist But it can also hurt, and it will probably hurt more because of the catastrophic effects of the drought. Long periods without rain strip away vegetation and clog dams with sediment. “There’s something to remember about El Niño,” Patzert told the LA Times in May. “He’s a good boy and he’s a bad boy because he can deliver drought relief … But all that water coming so fast is like trying to catch water out of a fire hose with a champagne glass.”There’s also a question of where all that rain falls. El Niños usually drop their contents over southern and central California, where it floods rivers and swamps the streets and then runs off into the ocean, making only a small dent in the vast water deficit. What the state really needs is snow over the mountains, the source of most of its water. When the snow melts in the spring, it will slowly feed the state’s rivers and reservoirs, rather than deluging them all at once. But even in an ideal situation, climate scientists warn, one good El Niño year is unlikely to solve California’s water woes.Earlier this month, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration meteorologist Tom Di Liberto estimated that every region of the state would need to have record-shattering rain years to recoup its precipitation debt. Southern California alone would require three times as much rain as usual – and nearly 380mm than its wettest year on record – to have any hope of returning to normal. “What happens this winter is definitely going to be interesting,” Stanford University climate scientist Daniel Swain told the LA Times. “And it’s not entirely clear whether California wins or loses.”This article appeared in Guardian Weekly, which incorporates material from the Washington Post