Inside Madison Square Garden dozens of MTV staff and hundreds of crew are busy preparing for the network’s annual festival of the absurd, better known as the Video Music Awards. It’s the show’s first time at the arena and its preparation and load-in has been a massive undertaking. It was three years ago when producers first started discussing the idea to house MTV’s crown jewel at the “world’s most famous arena”, and it’s all about to coalesce on Sunday night when years of work result in a equally headline-grabbing and smooth-moving spectacle. Well, that’s the plan.Why the MTV VMAs are still the greatest awards show on earth “Sometimes you think the show’s going to be one thing and then it turns into something else,” explains Garrett English, one of the executive producers of this year’s show, which sounds like code for: we don’t know what is going to happen. He’s been working in some capacity with MTV and the Video Music Awards for the past two decades, and is well aware that things can quickly spin out of control. “We create a pretty volatile environment that can be combustable at times, and that’s part of what the show’s about,” English says about expecting the unexpected, no doubt a major component of the VMA’s allure, whether it was that famous kiss between Britney Spears and Madonna, or the infamous interruption of Taylor Swift by Kanye West. “Those are scary moments for a producer for sure, but it’s something you can’t manufacture.”Fortunately for English and producer Erik Flannigan, there are some things you can control. “Our lineup of who performs is always a fluid situation,” explains Flannigan, while the vast screen and lighting rig propped up on the stage behind him twinkles and flashes in preparation for this year’s scheduled moments, including ballyhooed VMA return of Britney Spears (her first since 2007) and an epic medley by pop superstar Rihanna. “I know who’s opening, but won’t say because that’s all part of the fun. But everything else always changes. Last year when Taylor Swift and Nicki Minaj started the show together, that was something that we only planned a few days out.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kanye West and Kim Kardashian will be attending this year’s VMAs, while signs point to Taylor Swift skipping out. Photograph: Angela Weiss/AFP/Getty ImagesBesides the show’s musical moments, which are also poised to include rapper Future and a cameo-filled Nick Jonas performance of his new single Bacon at an as-yet undisclosed remote location, producers are also scurrying up a list of presenters, from comedians like former VMA host Jimmy Fallon to actors such as Ansel Elgort. There will be athletes in attendance as well, from Michael Phelps to the US women’s gymnastics team. “The moment they won gold, we were like, ‘We have to get them into the room,” says Flannigan of Olympians Simone Biles, Gabby Douglas, Laurie Hernandez, Madison Kocian and Aly Raisman. “I think they’re going to be the biggest celebrities there, I swear to God. It’s going to be Kim and Kanye wanting to take picture with the Olympians, not the other way around.”Speaking of West and his everlasting, publicity-generating feud with Taylor Swift, the talk this year is also swirling about who’s not attending. While Yeezy himself will indeed be in the audience with wife Kim close by, all signs point to Swift skipping out on this year’s festivities entirely. Fellow superstar nominee Adele, in the midst of a world tour, also won’t be gracing the VMA stage. “She’s had some great moments with us, but it was never a conversation of no Adele versus having her,” says English. “For a variety of reasons, it just didn’t work.” People enjoy watching because it’s so rare to see talent behave like real peopleErik Flannigan However, one star which will be on full display won’t be any one artist, but the building itself. After bouncing between locations such as The Forum in Los Angeles and Brooklyn’s Barclays Center, the show lands at Madison Square Garden for the first time in its history. “We aren’t sure why it took so long,” says English, as comedy duo Key and Peele begin to rehearse a comedy sketch slated for the show on an elevated stage near the arena’s balcony. “The Garden’s obviously been on our list for a while, but it’s obviously a building that’s hard to get into, creatively and otherwise.” (MTV rented out the venue for 12 days, something a longtime security guard at the venue interjected was “virtually unheard of”.) “Getting here represents the pinnacle of an artist’s career,” according to English. “We’ve always tried to figure out when was the right time for us to do that. The show has been in intimate environments and big rooms, and each year we try to reinvent what we do with it.”The reinvention of the spectacle on an annual basis is something that’s kept it fresh since the show’s inaugural broadcast in 1984. (This year’s performer Ariana Grande was still nine years away from birth.) Back then, Dan Aykroyd and Bette Midler hosted and the Cars took home Video of the Year accolades for their track You Might Think, somehow beating Michael Jackson’s Thriller in what would be the first of many VMA upsets. “I think people enjoy watching because it’s so rare to see talent behave like real people,” muses Flannigan as this year’s best new artist nominee Lukas Graham walks by flanked by his band. “People are drawn to the controversial parts, but I think they’re just as drawn to the moments of heart and artistic greatness. I think this Sunday will be much more about that stuff than it will be about who’s going to interrupt who.”• This article was amended on 29 August 2016 because an earlier version said, erroneously, that Taylor Swift had been nominated for Video of the Year.