The voice begins in the depths of his belly, wrestles through the raw canals of his throat, sounding blizzard-weathered and at times almost bereft of melody. It’s still more urgent and vital than many younger vocals, though. “If you are the dealer, I’m out of the game,” sings the 82-year-old Leonard Cohen, every syllable struck with force. “If you are the healer, it means I’m broken and lame … You want it darker, we kill the flame.”Leonard Cohen has been turning sounding ancient into an art form forever, of course; he was singing about having “the gift of a golden voice”, irony already fully wired in, as far back as 1988, when he was a sprightly 43.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest What’s unusual this autumn is that he’s not the only octogenarian releasing a new album. In two weeks, Shirley Collins, 81, releases Lodestar, her first LP in 38 years, her voice a rougher, stranger instrument to the one she had on pioneering mid-20th century folk albums such as Folk Roots, New Routes, but a striking one nonetheless, packed with a bracing, eerie power. Then there’s Petula Clark, 83, currently touring her new album, From Here On, including the beautifully electronica-dazzled single Sacrifice My Heart. Another legend announced his return last week to put those other whippersnappers to shame: Chuck Berry, with a new album at 90.Leonard Cohen: You Want It Darker review – killer couplets over bare bones Making a new album in your 80s or 90s – on paper, it sounds preposterous. But why not? If you were born in the interwar years, you’re the same age as modern music. You were a young adult when popular genres as we know them were being invented and moulded; you were one of its agents, in fact, working the cogs and the clay. Cohen, Collins, Clark and Chuck are part of modern music’s DNA. Its DNA is also part of them. Of course they want to show us how its life, how their lives, carry on.The motivations behind these new albums remind us that art has long-term value – and why should that only be the property of the young? Berry’s album, his first in 38 years, features his children and the band from his Blueberry Hill club in St Louis – a nice reminder that musical enjoyment can charge on in smaller places. Cohen has said his album is an attempt to deliver some of the art that still twists within him. In other words, age may weary the body but not necessarily the mind. “My natural thrust is to finish things that I’ve begun,” he told David Remnick in this month’s fabulous New Yorker profile, which talked as much as death as about life. Still, the old rogue’s not finished yet. “I’ve got some work to do,” Cohen said, pointedly.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest So has Petula Clark, whose last few albums have featured songs that sound effortlessly contemporary; when Mark Radcliffe and Stuart Maconie played 2013’s stunning Cut Copy Me to their BBC 6Music audience, many thought it was a young new artist. Clark’s been in the industry since the 40s, when she was a child star, and it may seem surprising that she has an itch she still needs to scratch. But of course she does. Music has been her whole life. Her latest album title says everything.Petula Clark: 'I have an iron and a bottle of port in my dressing room' Collins’ return is slightly different. She stopped performing in the late 1970s after her then husband, Ashley Hutchings, revealed he was leaving her for a secretary working at the National Theatre, where Hutchings and Collins were among the musicians supplying music for a production of Lark Rise. She had to carry on working with her husband and his new partner regardless, and developed dysphonia (when the voice doesn’t emerge when you try to sing). To sing again at 81, after being rediscovered in recent years by new generations of folk fans, means that Collins has reclaimed her identity as a conduit for the traditional music she adores. Shirley Collins: ‘When I sing I feel past generations standing behind me’ For someone whose pioneering work as a young woman included the recording of ageing blues singers in the American south with folk collector Alan Lomax, this is an especially moving achievement. How great it is, too, that from these older voices came the new. And how great is still is that these artists have their newer voices to share with us.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Berry’s ding-a-linging is still to come and Clark’s deeper recent records are a real pleasure to the ear, but there’s something particularly thrilling about hearing the voices of Cohen and Collins sounding as old as their ages – and utterly different to everyone else. They tell us stories through instruments that show how life can tear, weather and change, and these nuances make for rewarding listening. On her new album, Collins even sings a death ballad, Death and the Lady, which she originally recorded in 1970 with her sister Dolly. In both cases, traditional lyrics fit around a melody Collins wrote as a young woman. In both cases, you hear how age affects her intonation and depth, and her words’ feeling and meaning, especially when she’s singing lines, from her gut and her craw, such as: “Your time is come / And you must away.” Though their work might bring uncomfortable reminders of mortality alongside lighter moments of relief, there is nourishment to be had in the work of the older music-maker. Their time is still coming. And if we want to keep being rewarded by music, then we must not wave them away.  • This article was amended on 24 October to correct an error introduced in editing concerning the circumstances of Shirley Collins’s marriage ending.