Born Ramón Estevez in Ohio, Martin Sheen, 76, began his career on the stage, earning a Tony nomination for his role in The Subject Was Roses in 1965. He went on to star in numerous films, including Apocalypse Now. In 1999, he took the role of President Bartlet in the TV series The West Wing, going on to win a Golden Globe. He is currently in the Netflix series Grace And Frankie, and stars in Anne Of Green Gables, out next week on DVD. He is married with four children.When were you happiest? 1 May 1981 in Paris, because that’s the day I was reconverted to Catholicism.What is your greatest fear? The destruction of the environment.What is your earliest memory?Riding on a trolley car in Dayton, Ohio, during a rainstorm.Which living person do you most admire, and why?My wife Janet: she is the most scrupulously honest human being I have ever encountered.What is the trait you most deplore in yourself?Narrow-mindedness, particularly when it comes to the right wing.What is the trait you most deplore in others?Narrow-mindedness.What is your most treasured possession?A memento from Mother Teresa: it’s a medal encased with a picture of her, her signature, one of the crucifixes she wore and a splinter of the bench she sat on at home in Calcutta. Someone gave it to me and said it had a healing property, so I give it to people who are ill or in hospital. I can’t swear that it’s caused any miraculous healings, but it calms people and gives them a positive attitude.What do you most dislike about your appearance?That it seems to be sinking.Singer Gary Barlow: ‘Worst thing anyone’s said to me? Never come back’ Property aside, what’s the most expensive thing you’ve bought? Shares in The Way, which turned out to be the best movie I have done. Written and directed by my son Emilio, it’s a father-son story about the Camino de Santiago pilgrimage.What did you want to be when you were growing up? Golfer, priest, police officer, teacher and, after going to the movies, actor.What was your most embarrassing moment?Most involve watching something I did that I thought was going to be really good and turned out to be embarrassing.What is top of your bucket list?One film: the story of Pope John XXIII and his friendship with Italian artist Giacomo Manzù. It was captured in a book by Curtis Bill Pepper in 1968. I have written the screenplay and long to see it made.Who would play you in the film of your life?I would hope it would never get done. When asked how I would like to be remembered, I always say, for about five minutes.Which book changed your life?The Brothers Karamazov. It was the final step that led me back to Catholicism, so it has become my favourite book and the one I recommend to anyone on a spiritual quest. What do you owe your parents?My mother died when I was young. My father was my first hero and also the shyest man I knew. He was an immigrant, as was my mother. He is my moral frame of reference.To whom would you most like to say sorry, and why?My son Ramón was the victim of my wrath at a particular time that still withers me with disgrace.Which living person do you most despise, and why? Our current commander-in-chief, Yellow Hair.Who would you invite to your dream dinner party?John Kennedy, Mother Teresa, Robert Kennedy, Martin Luther King Jr, Abraham Lincoln, Pope John XXIII, Dostoevsky (to thank him), James Dean and Marlon Brando.What is the worst job you’ve done?That would have to be a film called Pickup On 101. It was a very interesting story, about a wandering musician and an old guy on his way back to his home town to spend his last days, but they made it into a pile of dishonest trash.When did you last cry, and why?After the initial travel ban debacle, I wept with joy at all the good people who came out against this fascistic edict.What is the closest you’ve come to death?Making Apocalypse Now. I had a close call with a heart ailment due to anxiety, fear and physical abuse: I was not taking care of myself.What do you consider your greatest achievement?That I was partially responsible for bringing some extraordinary human beings into the world, and they responded to me as a loving father.