Compared with the unruly Republican pack, the Democratic presidential field can seem tame, with relatively few candidates, a strong frontrunner and zero candidates coming off careers in casinos, computers or neurosurgery.Hillary Clinton's U-turn on TPP deal has team working overtime ahead of debate And yet the debut debate among the Democrats scheduled for Tuesday night promises plenty of colorful clashes, whether that means Bernie Sanders implicitly accusing Hillary Clinton of being a fake working-class hero, or Clinton accusing Sanders of turning a blind eye on guns, or all five candidates grappling with questions about Black Lives Matter, climate change or the Trans-Pacific Partnership.It’s worth noting that between them, the Democratic candidates have participated in 21 televised presidential debates in the past – with Clinton accounting for all 21. Her four challengers will be doing this for the first time. Tuesday night’s host, Anderson Cooper of CNN, has promised a series of pointed questions on bedrock policy issues. Unlike the top-tier Republicans, the Democrats – former secretary of state Hillary Clinton, senator Bernie Sanders, former governor Martin O’Malley, former senator Jim Webb and former governor Lincoln Chafee – may actually have time to answer some of the questions in-depth. Here’s a preview of some of the points of friction and fun to look out for.The Trans-Pacific PartnershipWhile global trade deals may not seem like the stuff of sexy television (and yes, the debates are also about ratings), CNN would do well to get in a question early on about TPP, because the unratified trade agreement is both an important area of policy disagreement, and an intersection for a lot of the undercurrents that make the Democratic race viscerally interesting.Core Democratic voters – workers, unions, some in industry – oppose the deal, saying it will depress wages and lure manufacturing abroad. Clinton buckled to this pressure just last week, saying that she could not support TPP in its final version – in spite of having called it “the gold standard in trade agreements” in 2012.Sanders, meanwhile, has always opposed TPP, as vehemently as he opposed the North American Free Trade Agreement (Nafta). In an October 1993 editorial titled Why I oppose Nafta, he said the deal would exacerbate economic inequality and “only benefit the ruling elites of the United States, Mexico and Canada”. Clinton supported Nafta before she opposed it. The TPP debate, then, could be a good opening for Sanders to spotlight his consistency on policy – billed by supporters as a major selling point – and to accuse Clinton of a lack of the same. Host network CNN has already worked to document Clinton’s TPP flip-flop, including in the recent piece 45 times Secretary Clinton pushed the trade bill she now opposes.Clinton’s consistency   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hillary Clinton has changed course on topics ranging from same-sex marriage to the Keystone XL pipeline.Because Clinton is still the prohibitive frontrunner in the Democratic race, her rivals may use the debate to challenge her fitness as a standard-bearer for the left. One way to make the point is by listing issues she has switched sides on. The list is longer than Nafta and TPP.Clinton will be the only candidate onstage Tuesday who ever supported the invasion of Iraq. Even Lincoln Chafee, who was a Republican in the Senate when the 2002 war vote came up, voted against it (he was the only Republican senator to do so).While Clinton supported the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act, which defined marriage as between a man and a woman, Sanders, then in the House of Representatives, voted against the bill and called for an end to discrimination based on sexuality. As governors, both O’Malley and Chafee signed same-sex marriage into law the same year, 2013, that Clinton finally came out in favor of it. Clinton has been a relatively muted critic of income and wealth inequality in the United States, which for Sanders has been a lifelong bugbear. In the Senate, she voted in favor of the 2008 Troubled Asset Relief Program (Tarp), which set aside $700bn in part to bail out big banks. Sanders voted no, with considerable passion. Gun controlWith multiple mass shootings having already occurred since the last headline mass shooting, and substantive disagreement among the candidates on guns, debate may actually break out on this issue.It’s one of the few issues on which Clinton runs to the left of Sanders, who hails from a rural, gun-friendly state and who voted against the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act of 1993 and in favor of allowing guns on Amtrak trains. He has supported assault weapons bans.Clinton, meanwhile, has stepped up her anti-gun rhetoric, saying: “We have to take on the gun lobby.” Last week she unveiled a series of proposals aimed at reducing US gun violence, including universal background checks, rolling back legal immunity for the gun industry, and legislation to keep firearms out of the hands of domestic abusers.Bookend positions on the issue are held down, meanwhile, by O’Malley and Webb. Webb, a decorated Vietnam veteran and former secretary of the navy, argued in the Senate against any restrictions on access to guns. He meant it: in 2007, an aide was charged with trying to carry a loaded pistol and ammunition into a Senate building. On the other end of the shelf, O’Malley put in place an assault weapons ban as mayor of Baltimore, and as governor of Maryland he signed some of the country’s most restrictive gun laws.SyriaAmericans are unhappy with the president’s performance on foreign policy, rating Obama at minus-14 approval on the issue in polling averages. One question for Clinton, his former secretary of state, is how much that number will stick to her.Clinton has been distancing herself from the administration’s Syria policy, writing in her 2014 memoir Hard Choices that she had urged Obama to arm the Syrian rebels much earlier, but that she was overruled. More recently, she has supported the establishment of a no-fly zone in Syria, prompting Obama to observe: “There’s a difference between running for president and being president.”Clinton’s Democratic rivals disagree with her in various ways. Both Webb, a vehement critic of the Iraq war, and Sanders oppose a no-fly zone for Syria, and in general are more leery of deepening US entanglements in the region.O’Malley on Friday said that the rise of Isis in Syria and Iraq had been an accidental result of a “mindless rush to war” in Iraq – a rush Clinton abetted.Climate changeBoth O’Malley and Sanders have strong records of supporting action to combat climate change, while Clinton has been playing catch-up, as a greater share of the public identifies the issue as urgent. The League of Conservation Voters gives Sanders a 95% lifetime rating, compared with 82% for Clinton, 81% for Webb and 78% for Chafee.Bill McKibben, the environmentalist, author and founder of 350.org, told the Guardian back in April that Clinton had failed to lead the US to a deal at the 2009 United Nations Climate Change conference, and he contrasted her record unfavorably with that of Sanders, who co-sponsored a 2007 act to curb carbon emissions.“Let’s hope she either steps up her game, or one of the other contenders becomes a reality,” McKibben said. “Bernie Sanders, for one, has been about the climate’s best friend in the Senate.”Black Lives Matter and criminal justice reformIn a New Yorker profile published earlier this month, Sanders said he had failed as a candidate in his response to the Black Lives Matter movement.“I plead guilty – I should have been more sensitive at the beginning of this campaign to talk about this issue,” Sanders was quoted as saying.The cynic could read the apology as a rare gesture of deference by Sanders to the hard realities of electoral math. While a strong showing among educated white voters makes Sanders look competitive in early states including Iowa and New Hampshire, he remains largely unknown among African American voters in the south.In August, Gallup measured Clinton’s favorability among African Americans nationally at 80%. In the same poll, Sanders posted a 23% favorable rating – and only a 33% familiarity rating.Calls for systemic reform to a criminal justice system that disproportionately punishes African American and minority offenders, meanwhile, have most vociferously been made not by Clinton or by Sanders, but by Webb.For decades, Webb has argued that the US puts too many people in prison, and for the wrong reasons. As a senator in 2009, Webb pushed for an 18-month, top-to-bottom review of the entire criminal justice system. “The goal of this legislation,” he wrote, “is nothing less than a complete restructuring of the criminal justice system in the United States.”ImmigrationIn Hillary we trust: supporters wait for Clinton to shine in Democratic debate US immigration policy is another issue on which Clinton has sought to create distance between herself and the Obama administration, which, she has pointed out, has been aggressive in its enforcement of deportations policy, although it makes headlines for suspending some deportations.“I will not be deporting parents,” Clinton told Telemundo last week. “I will not be breaking up families. I will not be doing what we’ve seen too much of, which is trying to, you know, make immigrants the scapegoat for everything that people are concerned about in the country.”It’s also an issue on which Clinton does not come under much pressure from Sanders, who hails from a state where the immigration debate is not particularly active and who has spoken relatively little on the issue so far on the campaign trail. Last week he echoed Clinton’s call for keeping families together, and said that he would provide a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants currently living in the US.As with guns, meanwhile, O’Malley has led the field in calling for immigration reform, supporting driver’s licenses for undocumented migrants as governor and presenting a plan in July calling for a drastic reduction in immigrant detentions and for the closure of “inhumane” immigration facilities. “My end goal is to get 11 million people out of the shadow economy and the shadow society and into the light of full participation,” O’Malley said, “to be more fully included in the economic, political and social life of our country.” 