My dad has always loved cycling. Not for the thrill of the wind in his hair, or the environmentally friendly kudos which comes from burning nothing except calories, but for the simple fact that it was cheaper than the bus to work, which for a dyed in the wool Yorskhireman is as good a reason as any. Drake's Cycles on Harehills Lane in Leeds was his Mecca, and the place he took me to get my first bike. Every morning I'd be in awe at the six, yes six, miles he'd cycle to work, and then back again every day without fail.As a sports fan, he also introduced me to the Tour de France, via a peculiar hour long highlights programme on Channel 4. Back in the early 90s professional cycling was a very niche sport, and the Tour was the only professional cycling you'd see on the telly.In those days Miguel Indurain ruled supreme, grinding away like an effortless machine on the climbs, resplendent in his primary coloured jersey. Sprinters with exotic names like Abdoujaparov and Cippolini took part in chaotic and exhilarating sprint finishes, and commentator Phil Liggett still ruled supreme, with his knowledge of random French chateaux and his uncanny knack of being about five seconds behind the rapidly unfolding events being shown on screen. I can still remember the opening sequence with the beer sponsor's motto, "seize cent soixante quatre", a phrase still uttered by me in my finest French accent every time the highlights show is on the telly.Road cycling, and in particular the Tour de France, works incredibly well as a highlights programme. Without the constant updating of Twitter and rolling news feeds, you had no idea who had won the stage. You came home, had your tea, and settled down to watch the beautiful countryside, the bloke dressed as the devil running alongside the riders, and the most finely honed athletes you'd ever seen making your dad's six mile commute to work seem like nothing. But my annual ritual is under threat. Cycling is cool. The tour is cool. Bradley is cool. OK, so Sir Brad isn't in it this year, but it hasn't stopped every news bulletin and every news website being inundated with stories of Geraint Thomas' broken hip, and Cav's urine soaked jersey. I've tried avoiding the web all day, and muting the radio at the merest sound of a cycling related story. But so far this year, I've only watched two highlights shows without knowing not only who's won, but the colour of the flipping dog that nearly caused a crash in the peloton. And I still watch the great highlights coverage on ITV4 religiously, with its mix of sport, local French politics and the host nation's obsession with making dioramas out of hay bales. But it's just not the same. It's great that cycling is popular. And it's great that more and more people are getting excited about what is the biggest spectator sport in the world. But I do miss those heady days of my youth when we weren't so immersed in what was happening every second, and an hour long highlights show told a great story of a day's riding in the biggest bike race in the world, and until the riders hurtled towards the finishing line, the winner remained a mystery.Matthew Loveday is from Leeds and grows salad for a living.