At the Mercury prize ceremony on Thursday night, Radiohead – instead of performing – unveiled a video of Thom Yorke and Jonny Greenwood performing Present Tense. It’s the latest in a long line of videos in which big music stars team up with major Hollywood directors, the former presumably thinking some silver-screen glitz will rub off on them, the latter thinkingit’s an easy payday they can show their pop smarts and improve an oft-shoddy artform. So settle back in the back row, dig in to your popcorn (please don’t bring nachos, they stink the place out) and let us consider that point where canvas chair meets mixing desk. There are scores more than these five, though, so do highlight your favourites in the comments …Radiohead – Present Tense (directed by Paul Thomas Anderson)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest What films has he made? Several that are often regarded as among the best to have come out of Hollywood in the last 20 years, redolent of the golden age of the 1970s – Boogie Nights, Magnolia, There Will Be Blood, The Master, Inherent Vice. He also made Radiohead’s clip for Daydreaming earlier this year, and Greenwood has recorded film scores for him.And what’s the video like? Minimal. Yorke and Greenwood are filmed with two cameras, and it cuts back and forth between the two as they sit and play Present Tense, accompanied by a Roland CR-78. There’s a third shot appears around two minutes in but it’s hardly dramatic: a close-up of Thom Yorke. The lighting is soft and orange, to fit the subdued mood of the music. To be perfectly honest, it’s hard to know what about this video required the presence of Anderson, other than the fact that all concerned are Serious Artists, and it reflects well on one Serious Artist to work with other Serious Artists rather than, say, Captain Flatpack.Any of the director’s usual themes or tricks? There’s no plot, which some say can be an Anderson weakness. On the plus side, it doesn’t last for hours, and there’s no gnomic dialogue that makes little or no sense.Michael Jackson – Thriller (directed by John Landis)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest What films has he made? His glory days are passed, but leading up to Thriller in 1983 he had a six-year run of hits – Kentucky Fried Movie, Animal House, The Blues Brothers, An American Werewolf in London, Trading Places.And what’s the video like? The first of the great video spectacles of the 1980s – less a pop promo than a mini-film, complete with four minutes of pre-song set-up with MJ and his date at the cinema watching a horror movie, before we get into the clip proper. Let’s be honest: it was brilliant then, and it’s still brilliant now. Jackson was at his pre-weirdness best, his dancing’s great, and though the body of the video seems a bit slow now – the first two minutes of the song are just Jackson dancing around his date as they walk home – once we reach the Vincent Price narration bit in the middle, it’s cracking all the way. Jackson wasn’t shy about using top-end directors: Martin Scorsese (Bad), John Singleton (Remember the Time), and David Fincher (Who Is It), back when he was making more videos than movies, all made clips for him.Any of the director’s usual themes or tricks? You mean apart from Jackson turning into a werewolf in the opening sequence? And the garishly entertaining schlockiness? And the whole B-movie ethos of it all? It’s Landis all over.Bruce Springsteen – Dancing in the Dark (directed by Brian De Palma)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest What films has he made? One of Hollywood’s hottest talents in the 1970s, he made a series of acclaimed and controversial thrillers (Carrie, Dressed to Kill, Scarface, Body Double), some big-budget smashes (The Untouchables, Mission: Impossible) and one of the most notorious flops in Hollywood history (The Bonfire of the Vanities). He’s now the subject of a documentary by Noah Baumbach.And what’s the video like? Basic. Bruce Springsteen sings the song on stage and dances. And then gets Courteney Cox up on stage to dance with him. Also from the Born in the USA album, I’m on Fire was a much more cinematic piece of work, even if it did reveal the limitations of Springsteen’s acting (he played a mechanic. No hint of typecasting there). The video made a mainstream star of him, though, and introduced something he does to this day: dragging a woman on to the stage to dance with him through the song. The remarkable thing is the effort it took to have one of rock’s great performers dance awkwardly for a few minutes – there’s an amazing video of him rehearsing at home for the filming, throwing those ungainly moves, and another early version of the clip, made by Daniel Pearl and Jeff Stein, that features the Boss dancing in his vest on a soundstage. It makes you realise how great, if simple, the final “in concert” clip really was.Any of the director’s usual themes or tricks? Not a single epic tracking shot; no obvious steals from Hitchcock or Eisenstein. Mind you, Cox should consider herself lucky she doesn’t end the video dismembered, Springsteen having turned out to be a misogynist serial killer. That would have been par for the course with De Palma.New Order – Touched By the Hand of God (directed by Kathryn Bigelow)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest What films has she made? At the point this clip was made, Bigelow was best known for the vampire movie Near Dark. Since then, she’s become better known for Point Break, The Hurt Locker and Zero Dark Thirty.And what’s the video like? Funny – which is not really what New Order’s public image was in 1987 (unless you count Bernard Sumner appearing on Pop Quiz and referring to Bono as Bongo to be the height of humour). It casts New Order as a hair metal band, complete with terrible wigs (and Gillian Gilbert on keytar and Peter Hook in codpiece) in a perfect facsimile of the hair metal videos of the day. The only bum note comes from the occasional interpolation of clips from the film Salvation! – Touched By the Hand of God was originally recorded for the soundtrack of said film.Any of the director’s usual themes or tricks? At no point are any cold-eyed representatives of US imperial power placed in the Middle East. Faith Hill – There You’ll Be (directed by Michael Bay)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest What films has he made? Action extravaganzas galore: Bad Boys, Bad Boys II, four Transformers films (with a fifth to come), The Rock, Armageddon … What Woody Allen is to neurotic people talking to each other, Michael Bay is to things being destroyed without any need for a plot.What’s the video like? The song was recorded for the soundtrack of Bay’s film Pearl Harbor, so it serves as a promo for that – lots of clips of Ben Affleck, Kate Beckinsale and Josh Hartnett. But there’s a video in there, too. And it’s not a very good one. For the sake of thematic unity, Bay sets it in the 1940s. Or does he? Because Hill keeps materialising and dematerialising, so it’s hard to know if she’s really there or has been beamed in from the future. But as a compendium of ballad cliches, it’s hard to beat: Hill stands with her arms swept behind her, like a freeze-frame of a sprinter breasting the ribbon, in the way that is meant to signify undying love and commitment (I dare you to declare your commitment to your loved one in this position tonight; time how long it takes them to ask why you’re standing like some kind of halfwit with damaged shoulders); she is shot from below, gazing into the distance, while a wind machine ruffles her hair and blows mist (or fog, or clouds) past her; she looks pensive, leaning out of a car window; she walks through a forest of hanging sheets. It’s unadulterated crap. But then Michael Bay makes millions, while I’m sitting in an office snarking about a pop video, so who’s the smart one?Any of the director’s usual themes or tricks? Nothing gets destroyed, but it’s got empty grandeur by the tonne.