Sonnet XIIIO! that you were your self; but, love, you areNo longer yours, than you your self here live:Against this coming end you should prepare,And your sweet semblance to some other give:So should that beauty which you hold in leaseFind no determination; then you wereYourself again, after yourself’s decease,When your sweet issue your sweet form should bear.Who lets so fair a house fall to decay,Which husbandry in honour might uphold,Against the stormy gusts of winter’s dayAnd barren rage of death’s eternal cold? O! none but unthrifts. Dear my love, you know, You had a father: let your son say so.1609 quarto versionO That you were your ſelfe, but loue you areNo longer yours, then you your ſelfe here liue,Againft this cumming end you ſhould prepare,And your ſweet ſemblance to ſome other giue.So ſhould that beauty which you hold in leaſeFind no determination, then you wereYou ſelfe again after your ſelfes deceaſe,When your ſweet iſſue your ſweet forme ſhould beare.Who lets ſo faire a houſe fall to decay,Which husbandry in honour might vphold,Againſt the ſtormy guſts of winters dayAnd barren rage of deaths eternall cold? O none but vnthriſts, deare my loue you know, You had a Father, let your Son ſay ſo.This week, we’re pre-empting a certain poet’s anniversary. The commemorations marking 400 years since William Shakespeare’s death focus on 23 April – traditionally celebrated as his birthday. We don’t know for certain the day of either his birth or death, although we have the month and year. The only reliable Shakespeare biography is written not in private records but in public documents, and the traditional dates are derived from these. To synchronise his death-day with his birthday is to lend the life a satisfying, sonnet-like compactness, perhaps too neat to be true. Who knows? We peep at the Bard through the windows of a story – and perhaps it’s the same with his 154 sonnets.  Sonnet 13 belongs in the opening series of 17, frequently known by the graceless title the Procreation Sonnets. Their manner is more elegantly elaborate than the name suggests, but there is a common message running plainly through their core, the persuasion of the young man addressed, Mr WH (William Herbert, Henry Wriothesley, William Holme, or none of the above), to settle down with a wife and make babies. You are so beautiful, the author says, in effect, and, like us all, subject to the predations of time. Only children will perpetuate your loveliness. Could this have been a device to allow Shakespeare to exclaim over his young man’s beauty? The obsessive concentration on a single theme might rouse a suspicion that Shakespeare was contorting the anguish of his misplaced and fruitless love into something more bearable and altruistic. To the Elizabethans, homosexuality was reprehensible and its practice always had to be covert. Shakespeare knew he never would, and never should, possess the handsome and presumably heterosexual young man. He created, in lieu of that impossible satisfaction, a different, acceptable scenario of possession. The youth would marry and become a father. The lover’s gratuitous satisfaction lay in imagining that and turning it into a private metaphor. At least there would be children for the sorrowful lover, in the form of poems. However, there’s a simpler explanation, agreed on by many commentators: the Procreation Sonnets were urged or commissioned by the young nobleman’s relatives, made fearful by his irresponsibility in matters of love, when what was needed for future family prosperity was a good marriage. Shakespeare pressed on assiduously because the youth was deaf to entreaty. “Time to settle down, my lad, and produce an heir” would be the hard economic kernel inside the 17 sugarplums. In Sonnet 13, the message is more or less unchanged but the tone has altered: the expression, even of the procreation theme, seems richer and less reliant on predictable witticism and wordplay. “Sweet” as an adjective relating to the young man’s looks occurs three times. It’s almost dreamy, how the speaker imagines the youth’s “sweet issue” bearing his “sweet form”. For the first time in the sonnets, he’s addressing him as “you” not “thou”. Many poems in the sequence could be read as letters, but this time it’s distinctly a love letter, sighing out of the depths of tenderness and desire. Sonnet 13 has never been one of the anthology sonnets and its lines may not ring out with the aphoristic resonance found elsewhere. But its soft voice crosses the centuries to tell us candidly: “I love him.” There are oceans of commentary on Shakespeare’s sonnets; I’ve dipped only in the rock pools. But one small suggestion (by G Blakemore Evans) which I find helpful regarding Sonnet 13, is that the word “self” in the opening line may have originally had an apostrophe, ie, “O! that you were your self’s”. The possessive word-form would easily have been misplaced during the transcribing process. That grammatical tweak solves a moment of ambiguity, but, then again, it doesn’t make a huge difference. Both terms, “your self” and “your self’s” are consistent with the poem’s legalistic metaphors. Beauty is only leasehold, the sonnet argues, and reproduction is the dodge that avoids determination (termination) of the lease. The mystery deepens in any case with the assertion: “but, love, you are/ No longer yours”. This seems to me the crux: with whatever emphasis you read the first line, you will perceive the young man to be “no longer” what he was, or where he was. And the reason? I think it’s because he is beloved: to trim Philip Sidney’s lovely, Arcadian line, (the speaker) has his heart. Perhaps the two are lovers by now and the possession is not only psychological – but it is, still, all importantly, psychological. And it could be that the young man has confessed a reciprocal love. Personal mortality seems to be denoted by “the coming end” (line 3), although displacement can always be viewed theologically: man’s true home, for the Christian, is not on Earth and the Earth itself faces approaching annihilation on Judgment Day. Seeking any and every story for this part of the sonnet, I’m tempted to ask if the young man might have recently had some kind of religious conversion or taken part in a sacrament (confirmation or a late baptism?). Could he have even got married? Perhaps he has been disinherited, or has otherwise had to move away from home. Or could he be “not himself” because, as some commentators think, he has fallen ill? This is pointless plot-thickening without any shred of evidence. Yet the change signified by the thought that “you” are yourself “no longer” and no longer live “here” could, at least semantically, take in social as well as romantic vicissitudes. Metaphorical emphasis shifts in the sestet, while still harmonising with notions to do with leasehold. The ageing, non-procreative body has become the weather-battered “fair house”, fallen into dereliction because of want of “husbandry” on the part of the owner. Who would be so careless with something so valuable? The speaker answers his own question: “O! none but unthrifts”. This construction beautifully echoes the poem’s first line, but I think the stress falls differently. I pronounce “O! none” as a spondee. It heightens the sighing intensity of the utterance. In the edition I’ve quoted, the placing of the endearment after the caesura in the first line of the couplet (“Dear my love”) makes the speaker’s affection extraordinarily palpable, and the final line about fathers and sons, which might have been slick in another context, now seems wistful and to allude to the speaker’s fatherliness towards the young man. By “unthrifts” Shakespeare means “wastrels”. The young man will be a wastrel if he leaves his beauty unreplicated, and there’s surely a tactful hint here that he is already moving in that direction, having sown a few wild oats too many.  It satisfies a human longing to meet Shakespeare the man, if we read the series as the true story of an encounter with the sonnets’ dedicatee, their “onlie begetter … Mr W H.” The poems become the writer’s “sweet issue”, a warm and breathing substitute for those personal records we lack. But it’s worth bearing in mind that we may simply be meeting a wonderful narrator, designing a story-in-sonnets to please himself and his early readers, conjuring their people, events and emotions from the cauldron of a dramatist’s protean imagination, in which personal experience is only one ingredient.