I studied Soviet politics at college, and the first thing I did when I finished was go to Ukraine. The Soviet Union had just collapsed and I wanted to document what was happening to the proletariat – especially the miners – in the Donbass region, now Ukraine’s rustbelt. I stayed with a mining family and followed their lives. It turned into a four-year project.Ukrainian politics can be quite murky. I kept an eye on it all over the years. In February 2014, it felt like the Euromaidan protests in Kiev’s Independence Square, demanding closer integration with Europe, were reaching a peak. Something was going to happen. President Yanukovych had just rejected the EU’s package and opted for Russia’s deal, which offered bailout money. The people were angry.Ukraine's Maidan protests - one year on When I arrived in Kiev, I was struck by the scale of the protest. The square and a huge boulevard leading up to it had become a massive campsite. The road to the presidential palace was like an apocalyptic vision – how I’d imagine the siege of Stalingrad looked. There were burnt-out cars and buses and huge barricades made from rubble. It had been snowing but there was a thick layer of coal dust, as the protesters had been using coal sacks as sandbags. Anything you touched turned your hands black. Your lungs too. They were burning plastic in bins, anything they could find. You’d sneeze and it was black. Many demonstrators had clearly been there a long time, as the coal dust had worked its way deep into their skin. I was reminded of the miners I’d photographed 20 years earlier.I saw the painter on the first day, another image-maker. He was painting the entrance to the old Dynamo Kiev stadium, with its classic Greek colonnades now standing amid rubble. It was the antithesis of a beautiful landscape, but it did have its own beauty. I liked the contradiction. Perhaps there’s a parallel with what I do: I’m quite classic, I use golden thirds, diagonals, all that. He’s also recording an event that he feels is important but framing it to look conventionally beautiful.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Maidan: watch a clip from a film documenting the 2014 Ukrainian revolutionThe protesters responded like people would to an artist painting by a river: they went over to chat and have a laugh. Some would stand there for a while, watching. Without dealing too much with the conflict or being really in your face with fire and riots, this shot catches the mood of the Euromaidan stalemate – how people always try to make the best of the world.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Adam Hinton. Photograph: Stephen AmbroseAfter four days, the situation seemed to be calming down so I flew home. A few days later, there were some skirmishes and you could tell it was going to explode. The next morning I contacted a German photographer I’d worked alongside. He warned me against going back. He was pretty freaked out. That morning, a demonstrator had been shot dead about a metre from him.I waited. The death toll grew. By Saturday, there were reports that Yanukovych had fled the palace and it was over. I flew out and started my Requiem project. People had piled up bricks where protesters had been shot, in some cases adding their possessions: a helmet, boots, a belt. Some were just a single brick with a flower on top. That that was all that was left of a human life: rubble repurposed to make something beautiful.Adam Hinton’s CVThe gangs of El Salvador: inside the prison the guards are too afraid to enter Born: Kingston-upon-Thames, London, 1965.Studied: Politics at Trent Polytechnic. Influences: Nick Hedges and early Sebastião Salgado.High point: “Shooting the gangs at Penas Ciudad Barrios, a maximum security prison in El Salvador.”Low point: “You get periods when it goes quiet once every few years.”Top tip: “Don’t be a jack of all trades. Do what you find the most satisfying.”