I like honey in my tea and on my granola at breakfast, but I don’t usually reach for it as a way to sweeten my baking. The flavour of honey can change with baking and I don’t always like the way it goes. This week’s recipes, however, capture everything I love about honey – its unctuous texture, its earthy sweetness, and its ability to make you feel like a child.Coincidentally, we have started reading Winnie-the-Pooh as a bedtime story to our daughter, Frances, who turned one this week. The world of Pooh is wonderfully simple: he is thoughtful and considerate but – a bear after my own heart – all he really wants to do is eat and read poetry. Each evening that my husband or I read to our daughter from our tattered copy, we end up discussing the musings of Pooh with a glass of wine after she’s gone to sleep. It is light-hearted, yet profound:“When you wake up in the morning, Pooh,” said Piglet at last, “what’s the first thing you say to yourself?”“What’s for breakfast?” said Pooh. “What do you say, Piglet?”“I say: I wonder what’s going to happen exciting today?” said Piglet.Pooh nodded thoughtfully. “It’s the same thing,” he said.I couldn’t agree more.In honour of Pooh, here are two honey-based bakes that definitely make for exciting happenings on any day. Whether or not you eat them for breakfast is up to you.Claire Ptak’s recipes for Dutch babies and American popovers | Baking Chocolate honey cake (main picture)Simple and honey-sweetened, this is my new go-to chocolate cake. I serve it covered with honey cream and drizzles of extra honey.Makes 1 cake165g unsalted butter360g dark chocolate100g honey200g whole almonds, skins on10 eggs, separated¼ tsp salt¼ tsp cream of tartarFor the topping225g double cream1 tbsp honey, plus more for drizzlingA pinch of salt1 Preheat the oven to 170C/335F/gas mark 3½. Grease and line the base of a 25cm round tin with parchment.2 Cut the butter into small pieces, and break up the chocolate. Put these in a heatproof bowl, then set this over a pan of simmering water to melt, ensuring that the water does not touch the base of the bowl. Once the butter and chocolate have melted, remove the bowl from the heat and set aside to cool slightly. Stir in the honey.3 Put the almonds in a food processor and blitz to a powder. Be careful not to take them too far, as you don’t want the almonds to release oil. Add the almonds to the chocolate mixture.4 Add the egg yolks to the chocolate mixture one by one, mixing well after each addition.5 Put the whites in the bowl of a stand mixer with the salt and cream of tartar. Whisk to soft peaks. Fold the whites and the chocolate mixture together, then spoon into the prepared cake tin.6 Bake for 30-35 minutes. The cake should have a very slight wobble at the centre. Do not overbake it, as the gooeyness will be lost.7 Mix the cream with 1 tbsp honey and the salt, then whisk to soft peaks. Serve the cake topped with the cream and an extra drizzle of honey.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Honey and almonds are great companions and, because they stay fresh for so long, these little biscuits are ideal for the cookie jar. Photograph: Kristin Peres for the GuardianHoney and almond macaroonsMakes around 40 small biscuits400g whole almonds, skins on¼ tsp almond extract200g honeyZest of 1 lemon3 egg whites1 Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/gas mark 6. Line two baking trays with parchment.2 Put 300g of the almonds in a food processor, and grind to a fine powder. Do not over grind them, as they will start to release oils. Add the remaining ingredients and blitz until mixed.3 Scoop tablespoons of the mixture on to the prepared baking trays. Top each biscuit with two whole almonds. Leave the unbaked biscuits to sit at room temperature for around an hour, to allow them to dry out a little. Then bake for 10-15 minutes, until golden.Claire Ptak is a pastry chef, author and food stylist and owns Violet Bakery in London. She is the author of the Violet Bakery Cookbook (Square Peg); @violetcakeslondon