The case of Guadalupe Vásquez, who was imprisoned for more than seven years after losing the baby she conceived when she was raped at the age of 17, is to be examined by a panel of experts in the first People’s Tribunal to focus on El Salvador’s draconian anti-abortion law.Vásquez, who was sentenced to 30 years for murder in 2008, was pardoned and freed last year after the supreme court ruled her conviction was unsafe. Her case is one of three that will come under renewed scrutiny this weekend following a dogged campaign by reproductive rights campaigners and relatives of women unfairly convicted under anti-abortion legislation.The campaigners aim to maintain the women’s plight in the public’s consciousness and put pressure on the authorities to decriminalise abortion, ending the imprisonments that have blighted the lives of Vásquez and many other Salvadoran mothers.“I lost my youth in prison for a crime I didn’t commit,” says Vásquez, a devout Catholic who had been looking forward to motherhood, despite her ordeal at the hands of an older man who threatened to hurt her if she reported the crime. “I wanted my baby, I don’t know why she died or what happened to her; her body was never returned to my family.”El Salvador banned abortion in all circumstances in 1998. It is one of six states (including the Holy See) where there are no exceptions – even if a woman is raped, her health or life is at risk, or if the foetus is seriously deformed. Convictions related to abortion are shockingly commonplace in the country.El Salvador: where women are thrown into jail for losing a baby | Jonathan Watts According to research by the Salvadoran Citizens’ Group for the Decriminalisation of Abortion, more than 250 women were reported to the police between 2000 and 2014, of whom 147 were prosecuted and 49 convicted – 26 for murder and 23 for abortion. The vast majority were like Vásquez: young, poor single women who lost their baby after an obstetric complication.“The tribunal is a way to access alternative justice for the women. It will provide a space to make visible the systematic human rights violations suffered by these women, and advocate for justice in each particular case,” said Sara García, an advocacy worker with the Citizens’ Group. The eldest of nine children from a rural family in La Paz in the south of the country, Vásquez started work at the age of nine. By 14, she was a live-in domestic worker and nanny in the capital, San Salvador. Three years later, Vásquez was raped. She was subsequently unable to attend antenatal appointments due to her relentless work schedule. Refused permission to go home to give birth, she delivered her daughter at full term in her tiny bedroom, alone. The baby cried once before dying, says Vásquez. Three months later she was imprisoned for murder, without ever hearing the evidence against her. She was 18.“The doctor in the hospital was angry at me. A policeman told me that if I’d been his woman he would have cut off my head. The judge treated me hatefully,” she says.The tribunal will consider whether the state should make reparations to Vásquez.“They should compensate her economically for the years in jail, but reparations should be comprehensive to address her social, psychological and medical needs,” says Garcia. None of the women freed in recent years have received any compensation. The tribunal, supported by Barcelona’s College of Lawyers, will also consider the case of Maria Teresa Rivera, 33, who is serving a 40-year prison sentence for aggravated homicide. Rivera, who did not realise she was pregnant, had a miscarriage in November 2011. She was convicted on the basis of her employer’s claim that she had known she was pregnant in January 2011 – which would have made her 11 months pregnant at the time of the miscarriage. The third case is Teodora del Carmen Vásquez, 32, who was sentenced to 30 years in 2007 after experiencing a stillbirth days before her due date. The judge accused her of failing to do enough to save the foetus, even though she became unconscious after calling emergency services. The tribunal takes place at the Jesuit-run Central American University in San Salvador, which has an illustrious history of human rights work. The university has hosted several People’s Tribunals to examine civil war cases of murder, torture and forced disappearance that have escaped justice because of the country’s amnesty law. Abortion and reproductive rights are on the university’s agenda for the first time – significant, considering the Catholic Church’s pivotal role in promoting the abortion ban.The panel will make symbolic rulings and recommendations that will be sent to the relevant authorities.Despite her ordeal, Vásquez is optimistic. She gave birth to a healthy daughter this year, and says: “I am so happy to be a mum. I would just like to open a little shop or pupusería, so that I can support my daughter. They should pay for what they did to me, it was unjust.”