In 2015, I undertook an experiment: I gave up all my music. For an entire year I didn’t listen to anything pre-existing in my beloved and carefully curated iTunes library. My collection has been transferred between multiple computers, synced and re-synced, and has been an integral part of who I am, but for 12 months it was gone. I thought it was going to be an ordeal, but after just a couple days, my self-imposed ban became a real non-factor in my life. Even when my library was barely existent, the sense of adventure I felt overshadowed that fact. For the first time in a while, I was excited about music again.There was a minimal amount of struggle, and coping with it was productive. There were times when I badly wanted to listen to LCD Soundsystem, but I didn’t break. Instead, I moved laterally and checked out other artists on DFA Records (which was co-founded by LCD Soundsystem leader James Murphy) and found Holy Ghost! and Museum of Love. Likewise, Mac DeMarco, Milo, BADBADNOTGOOD, The Twilight Sad and some others became essential artists, after I had previously either discounted them or never knew their names. I checked out types of music I had undervalued like country and metal. I even explored video game music: Soichi Terada’s soundtrack for the Playstation 1 title Ape Escape is a serviceable drum and bass electronica album in its own right.If I’m going in, I’m goin’ in hard Perhaps most importantly, I discovered more music in 2015 than I ever have before. According to my iTunes library, not accounting for tracks I added and later removed, I added 3,329 songs. My next closest year is 2013, when I added 1,837 tracks.The science behind human perception and memory seems to back up the results of my experiment. There are two basic steps in the life cycle of a piece of music: you hear a song, album or what have you a few times, and it grows on you. This is because the reward centers of the brain are more active when you’re listening to something you’ve heard before, which explains why even the most shallow of pop music sticks in your head via regular exposure. The second part is when the music grows old, which is related to “latent inhibition”. It’s the natural human condition of our brains going on a sort of autopilot mode when it encounters familiar stimuli, relying on memory from previous experience instead of reconstructing every element of the stimuli from scratch every time it is observed.But now 2015 is over and I can finally listen to my old music. I was visiting home and spending time with family for the holidays at the start of 2016. That always lowers the amount of music I listen to, so it actually took me a few days to get back into my old music, but the taste was so sweet when I had fully returned. Ignoring my old music for a year had at least somewhat taken it out of “latent inhibition” mode and breathed new life into my old songs. Future Islands, Foals, Kurt Vile, Interpol, Explosions in the Sky: it was all back, and I hadn’t enjoyed it that much since the first time I heard it.If you’ve fallen out of love with your go-to jams, I recommend taking a complete sabbatical from them for, say, a month (or the full year if you’re looking for a 180-degree change), and I promise you’ll return to your babies with a renewed vigor and a new appreciation for why you fell in love with them in the first place.