What’s that smell? It’s got a hint of cheese and a whiff of BS. A subtle undertone of sulphur. It must be the scent of Steve McQueen’s Burberry advert, which wafts in two gusts across the internet.Like his Oscar-winning contemporaries (Martin Scorsese, Sofia Coppola, errr Giuseppe Tornatore?), McQueen has been bestowed the directing privilege that really matters: being paid lots of money to film two pretty people sniff each others’ necks. His short is called “Burberry” and spans a dirty weekend between two lovers. He (actor, musician, billboard Joshua Whitehouse) liberally applies the sauce, while She (actor and model Amber Anderson) looks winsome in soft focus. Then it’s off to the races they go, with the abandon you’d expect from a fragrance inspired by a trench coat. They artfully strip off each others’ posh garb, engage in a sanitised bout of bath-based rumpo, then have a wash and get dressed again. This might be the closest McQueen gets to filming a spin on Fifty Shades of Grey.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Burberry ad.The star – of course – is the spritz, which makes a cameo in the main event, but gets top-billing in its own ad spot, “Mr Burberry”. A cut-and-paste job of McQueen’s leftovers, it gives you all the facts you need about fragrance and film. Mr Burberry is, like London, “elegant without being pristine”, says the PR puff. It smells of “uplifting” grapefruit, “fresh” cardamom, “balancing” cedar wood and – COUGH – a “birch leaf accord”. Not bus brakes and BO with a chicken shop accord, as per reality. There are lingering pans across the ingredients. Truly, you’ve never seen “smoky guaiac wood” look so erotic.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the Mr Burberry fragrance ad.Neither film is obviously the work of Steve McQueen, which might be – other than the fee – what he’s banking on. The director’s done a slick, soulless job – exactly what was required if he were to give his name, but not his heart, to this kind of thing. He cuts his action with shots of London (the pristine bits) and well-designed hotel corridors. It’s a bit like watching a sex-is-fun version of Shame. Certainly the director who made Hunger and 12 Years a Slave has his eye for life’s brutality screwed firmly shut here.What else could this be but clean and corporate and – despite Mr Burberry’s shopping list of scent tones – flavourless? At least when Baz Luhrmann danced with the devil – for his Chanel ad, The One That I Want – he gave it some wiggle. His short was a micro-melodrama – family man abandons beautiful wife and adorable kid (or does he?!) – with a meta twist: a cameo from Luhrmann himself. No such frivolity from McQueen, who treats the marketing of smelly water with the same gravitas as Patsy pleading for soap. They can’t be equally important, can they? If so, we’re in real trouble. 