In Essex, where I’m from, breast enlargement is relatively common. I reckon one in five women I know have had a boob job. And people are super-relaxed about it. Like repainting a house or something, these operations are viewed as a decorative tweak. When a young lady from Basildon or Romford announces, “I’m getting them done,” she is greeted with reactions ranging from nonchalance to congratulations. Her family and friends will giggle or check they’ll be allowed a squeeze to test realism, and they’ll be accepting. Breast enlargements are discussed as a sensible corrective: “Oops, did God forget to give you boobies? Let’s have a whip-round.” No one stands on a table and says, “YOU WANT YOUR HEAD CHECKED, MATE, DON’T YOU DARE HURT YOURSELF LIKE THIS, I’M GOING TO SHOUT AND SHOUT UNTIL YOU REALISE THAT YOUR BODY DOES NOT DEFINE YOU,” except me. I’m no longer welcome in that fine county and it’s my own fault for being judgy and preachy.When I was 16, one of my aunts had an appointment in Harley Street and I went, too, in an attempt to change her mind. I was exceptionally opinionated as a teenager, never afraid to rant and ruin a birthday party or cinema trip. I was moralistic and “right on” and had very few friends. Growing older has helped me become empathetic to other people and their reasons for making choices. I used to think there was a definitive right and wrong and that only I knew what they were and so I should be dictator of the world.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘These women are part of an ongoing experiment that could be called “What happens when you do this to breasts?”’ Photograph: Juan Silva/Getty ImagesNow I realise that we all have our own subjective realities that affect our decisions and that it wouldn’t be fair if I was in charge of everyone. Unless I was elected.So we were in the waiting room and I was quiet. It was here that I had planned to berate my aunt for what she was doing, using clever arguments about how she was an idiot and everyone at her work would notice. But the waiting room wasn’t empty as I had planned – it was busy with everybody chatting, full of excitement and apprehension. I stared at wood-panelled walls as people began to cross-pollinate, introduce themselves and ask: “What you here for then?” and then “Ha ha ha,” they would laugh, because it sounded as if they were in prison or something.It must have been Implants Day at the clinic because all the women were there for the same operation in a variety of sizes. They were intoxicated by the proximity of their lumpy goal, and each shared her backstory unguardedly, encouraging and praising each other, while I judged them and pretended I wasn’t listening.There was a woman who was getting hers done on the NHS. Everyone said she was so lucky, getting freebies. People were asking how, wondering aloud if they should have tried that. Freeboobs said it wasn’t luck but that she couldn’t afford to pay, so she had had to go to the doctor loads of times and cry and cry and say she was depressed. Then she had gone to a psychiatrist and said that she would kill herself if she didn’t get them. She had to get the doctors to agree she was mentally unstable and couldn’t function until she got this operation; that was the only way to get the NHS to buy them for you. But of course she wasn’t really crazy, she added, she’d just cheated the system. I would have argued that pretending to be crazy is pretty crazy and she should stop bragging about it. It seemed unfair to me that she would be getting the same surgeon as these other women who were paying thousands of pounds, although maybe her NHS implants would be shoddier? Crude and unsophisticated, like when you got NHS glasses in the olden days.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   In the waiting room people would ask: ‘What you here for then?’ and then laugh, because it sounded as if they were in prison or something. Photograph: Linda Nylind for the GuardianAt the time, I was still wearing a thickly padded bra every day, and when I went out at night I wore two, one on top of the other. I let boys feel them up when I was getting off with them, believing that the padding was passing for real body, trusting they couldn’t tell the difference. This kind of amateur tryst would happen in classy nightclubs in Romford. I was 16, so would only go to over-21s nights because on over-18s nights everyone was about 12. All the kids there were from local schools, and my pulling technique was to go up to a guy and accuse him of being gay until he got off with me. I’d let him pummel my cottony sponge boobs for about three minutes and then walk away, stealing his drink as I went. He would assume it had been cleared by a bartender while we were snogging. I didn’t feel anything sexual about these encounters, just the achievement of proving I wasn’t repulsive plus getting a drink without having any money. I used to think there was definitive right and wrong and only I knew what they were so I should be dictator of the world I wore a padded bra every single day and night from the age of 14 until I was 31. Giving up padding was my New Year’s resolution. I had known for ages that wearing a stuffed bra was a form of hiding my real body. I realised I was walking around with two lies on my chest: “Wanna squeeze my tits? They’re in the washing basket.” And that’s ages ago now. I should be used to my new honesty, but I still feel insecure without padding and I have to fight the urge to fake it. Especially if I am on TV or something – who would know? I’d just look like I had a slightly fuller bust, no harm would be done ... Except I think that is where the harm is done. If all small-breasted women are wearing padded bras and look bigger, then the teenage girls with small breasts feel they are alone in their small-boobedness. They aren’t offered a vista of unenhanced, bottom-heavy, perfectly contented three-dimensional women to combat the pneumatically proportioned two-dimensional ones in the media. The young women are duped and begin to pad and enhance and the cycle continues. It only stops if we accept ourselves. We are all responsible for a little slice, whether we want to be or not.I used to be so outraged with friends and relatives who had enlargement surgery. I believed that when a woman felt her figure was insufficient or incorrect she should be furious with the culture that generated those feelings, not change her body. Sara circa 2010 would tell you that when a woman got implants, she crossed over – she ceased to be a victim and became part of the problem. “She walks around with her enhanced measurements and increases the pressure on women around her to conform,” I would bellow. “The more women who get breast enlargements, the more difficult it becomes to be flat-chested,” I would rant at you and you’d notice how my nostrils flared and how inflexible I was and make a mental note not take me to the cinema again. I am an idiot for my anger and I regret it, and I’ve had to learn that women telling other women what to do is not feminism.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I wore a padded bra every single day and night from the age of 14 until I was 31.’ Photograph: AlamyBack in the waiting room, one of the women had a huge folder with her. She was very confident and assured as she talked through all the research she had done. “It’s vital, it’s vital,” she repeated as people asked questions as if she was Jeeves. Every plastic leaf of her folder contained a diagram or article. She knew about incision areas, nipple placement, silicone versus vegetable oil (using vegetable oil in boobs is now illegal, fact fans), round versus teardrop, under muscle versus over muscle, and everyone listened to her respectfully. “You’ve got to research, ladies – it’s your body here!” This was 1997, so cosmetic surgery was not as prevalent as it is now. Recently, I worked at a fundraiser for a breast cancer charity and I met a cosmetic surgeon who told me stories of how flippantly some people approach their operations. She gave me an example of getting a phone call on 20 December from a woman wanting breast enlargements. The receptionist had explained that they couldn’t do the operation until January, because otherwise the appointment to check recovery would have to be during the holidays when the clinic was closed. “But I need it before then – I need it now,” the woman kept saying, and so the surgeon was brought to the phone to find out what the emergency was, and it turned out the woman had bought a dress for New Year’s Eve that was “too big up top” and she wanted implants so it would fit her properly. I look back on Folder Lady and her keen research more fondly now. If all small-breasted women are padded, the teenage girls with small breasts feel alone in their small-boobedness The spooky truth is that so little is known about the dangers of breast implants. A medicine would go through about 20 years of testing before getting official approval to show that it’s probably safe for humans. Implants were not studied until doctors were already performing operations. In fact, all women who get their breasts enlarged are part of an ongoing experiment that could be called “What happens when you do this to breasts?” It has been trial and error ever since the first op – they’ve used substances that are poisonous and have migrated around the body, such as vegetable and soy oil; they’ve used substandard and industrial-grade silicone (PIP implants were found to have a one-in-six chance of exploding); all implants make it more difficult to screen for breast cancer and can interfere with breastfeeding and reduce breast sensitivity. And those are only the success stories. That’s without the awful reports of operations gone wrong, the unqualified butchers, the backstreet conmen and the deaths they have caused.I read a horrible account of Japanese prostitutes after the second world war injecting military silicone directly into their breasts before becoming, as you’d imagine, horrifically sick. Their story felt symbolic for me of the brutality of self-hatred and what we are willing to undertake because of it. Those women sought enlarged breasts because they could earn more money when selling sex. The white-coated, handsomely bricked facade of Harley Street disguises similar desperation in other women, normalises it. If breast enlargement is advertised on the tube, talked about nonchalantly in newspaper columns and on chat shows, we are all complicit in making it an understandable response to body issues. We continue a culture where women who don’t depend on men wanting sex with them for income behave as if they do.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘For the bulk of our evolution, female body fat was valued for health and aesthetics.’ Photograph: AlamyWant to know a disturbing statistic? You know I said that all women who have boob jobs are unwittingly part of an ongoing study; well, lots of studies are conducted using their data – health complications afterwards, further cosmetic procedures, etc. And a meta-analysis of all these studies found that women who have had breast enlargements are two to three times more likely to kill themselves than women who haven’t. We need to think about that – about why this is happening, about the vulnerabilities of the women who choose cosmetic surgery and the normalisation of such choices. When they asked cosmetic surgeons about this rise in suicides, they didn’t understand: “They were happy with their operations,” they said; “She didn’t show signs of depression.” But someone who wants to have their body cut open, to pay for it, is already self-harming, carving criticism on their body. The expensive and clever doctors persuade us surgery is more reasonable than razor work in your own bathroom.For our pre-civilised ancestors, the exposed breasts of a woman would have been a quick and easy way of assessing exactly where she was in her life. Uncovered and unbra-ed, they announce a history of our body, our nutrition and our fertility. Perhaps that’s why we are so sensitive to what our breasts say about us. That’s why we want them to fib, to tell a better story. We want them to tell everyone we’re younger and fitter than we are. We want to be well represented – and that leads us to disguise and adapt our breasts, to lift them, pad them and alter the shape of our silhouette. Or have surgery and amend them permanently.'I had what some call man boobs': men on why they had cosmetic surgery We know that our body means something, that we can never be invisible. We will naturally be concerned with our body shape. A little vanity is built in. But the way that human beings communicate with each other has dramatically changed in the past century. For the bulk of our evolution, female body fat was valued for health and aesthetics. Look at the stone-age Venus figurines, images of women with chunky drumstick limbs and bulging bellies from 20,000 years ago. Walk around any art gallery and notice that the women considered beautiful in all eras of human creation had dappled thighs and undulating stomachs. Skinniness is a new fashion. It reflects an obsession with youth, a suggestion of pre-adolescence when a female’s fertility can be dominated. It implies vulnerability, feebleness and fragility. The attractiveness of such traits is of no benefit to women’s lives.What I find most troubling is the recent expectation of sudden weight loss after pregnancy. Magazines, websites and newspapers all trill about the speed with which famous women regain their figures, high-fiving anyone who has erased signs of the life they made and is ready to be found attractive again, to be prospective. The extra fat of post-pregnancy is not a fashion faux pas – it is stored energy for keeping a baby alive. We need to start congratulating the generously flabby for the healthy lives they are enabling rather than expecting them to burn it off on a treadmill. Here, for me, is our ironic position – women’s bodies being scrutinised after making babies because our whole species is programmed to assess women’s potential to make babies. Even though loads of us don’t have children, or haven’t yet, our reproductive capability underwrites every day of our post-adolescent lives.•Extracted from Animal: The Autobiography of a Female Body by Sara Pascoe (Faber & Faber, £12.99). To order a copy for £10.39, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846.• Sara Pascoe is on tour with Animal from 6 May to 2 July. www.sarapascoe.com/gigs