Truth, justice and the American way … are all out the window this week, as Marvel comics revealed that Captain America, their stalwart upholder of everything red, white and blue, is a sleeper agent for Hydra: a fascist, terrorist organisation. In the first issue of Steve Rogers: Captain America – written by Nick Spencer, with art by Jesus Saiz – one of Marvel’s best-loved characters, who this year celebrates his 75th year of publication, comes out of the closet as a flag-bearer for his long-time enemies, sending the internet into a mini-maelstrom that could be summed up as a collective: “What the fuck?”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The cover of Steve Rogers: Captain America #1 by Nick Spencer and Jesus Saiz. Photograph: AP Here’s a re-Cap (heh) of Captain America’s history: during the second world war, weedy Steve Rogers was given a shot of super soldier serum, turning him into the shield-slinging Captain America. Taking on terrorist group Hydra – then led by the Nazi Red Skull – sees Cap frozen in an iceberg for a few decades, until the Avengers defrosted him and he resumed his butt-kicking adventures in the present day. Recently in the comics, Rogers’s super soldier serum wore off, turning him into a grumpy pensioner and forcing his pal Sam Wilson (aka The Falcon) to take over as Captain America. Steve eventually gets his youth back and slips on the ol’ underoos, agreeing to a job-share with Wilson.Marvel editor-in-chief: 'Writing comics was a hobby for white guys'  Just in time for everything to be turned on its head again. In the latest Captain America comic, a series of flashback sequences show Steve as a dirt-poor kid with an abusive father in the 1920s and we see a mysterious woman encourage Steve’s put-upon mother to attend a meeting of a “civic league” that “looks for ways to help the community” – the New York Chapter of The Hydra Society.The seeds have been retroactively sown for Steve Rogers’ extreme rightwing tendencies … effectively chucking out the baby with three-quarters of a century’s worth of red, white and blue bathwater. And the reaction has been … not great: #SayNoToHydraCap sprang up on Twitter almost immediately, under which thousands of fans vented their rage. Petitions sprung up asking Marvel to reverse the storyline. Writer Spencer has received death threats (“I can’t respond to to 9,000 tweets per second, but if I could, I would say I admire your passion,” he tweeted on Wednesday). Even Chris Evans, the actor who plays Captain America in the Marvel movies, was nonplussed.Chris Evans (@ChrisEvans)Hydra?!?!? #sayitaintsoMay 26, 2016Ever since his creation, fascism has been abhorrent to Captain America – his very first appearance in 1941 depicted him socking it to Adolf Hitler, after all. This move feels like a bit of a kick to Captain America’s creators, Joe Simon and Jack Kirby – both of whom were Jewish. When Simon was coming up with the idea for Captain America, it was the villain who came first. Before his death in 2011, he told writer Christopher Irving: “I picked Adolf Hitler as the ideal villain. He had everything that Americans hated, and he was a clown with the funny moustache, yet guys were ready to jump out of planes for him. He was the first choice, and his antagonist would have to be our hero, and we’d put a flag on the guy and have Captain America.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Detail from the cover of Captain American #1 from March 1941. Photograph: Courtesy of Marvel But now, it appears Captain America is on Hitler’s side. Still, Marvel is sticking to its guns: one of its editors, Tom Brevoort told Time magazine: “We try to write comics in 2016 that are about the world and the zeitgeist of 2016, particularly in Captain America. Nick Spencer, the writer, is very politically active. He’s a Capitol Hill-head and following this election very closely. So we can talk about political issues in a metaphoric way. That’s what gives our stories weight and meat to them. Any parallels you have seen to situations real or imagined, living or dead, is probably intentional but metaphorically not literally.”DC Rebirth: Batman, Superman and Wonder Woman get rebooted … again  The thing to remember is: nothing is ever set in stone in comics. Characters die and are resurrected with alarming regularity; so much so that comics used to routinely slap “Not a hoax! Not a dream! Not an imaginary tale!” on covers of comics featuring portentous events, as a guarantee to fans that they weren’t going to duck out of the story, Dallas-style (until eventually they’d do just that, with a deus ex machina plot device).What will be the next big revelation in this new Captain America storyline? In the first issue we see Cap’s old enemy (and, as Hydra figurehead, presumably his new best friend) the Red Skull, holding forth at a secret Hydra meeting about America’s culture being “under siege” and “criminal trespassers making a mockery of your borders”. So if in a future issue, the Red Skull tears off his mask to reveal Donald Trump underneath … you read it here first.