Brought up in Ealing, west London, Phoebe Waller-Bridge, 31, attended Rada and made her stage debut in Roaring Trade at Soho theatre in 2009. She has since acted in stage, film and TV, making her West End debut in Hay Fever in 2012, appearing in The Iron Lady and starring in Broadchurch as barrister Abby Thompson in 2015. Crashing, her comedy series about twentysomething property guardians, aired on Channel 4 in January. In July Fleabag, originally an award-winning one-woman show at the 2013 Edinburgh fringe, became a six-part series, currently screening on Sundays on BBC2. Its tragicomic portrayal of a flawed antiheroine has seen Waller-Bridge described as the “British Amy Schumer” and the “British Lena Dunham”.1 | Film Mustang (dir Deniz Gamze Ergüven)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The stars of Mustang. Photograph: Ad Vitam ProductionThis film hit me like a punch to the gut. It’s a fictional story of six orphaned sisters in Turkey who are left under the guardianship of their uncle. He can’t cope and in a bid to control them and marry them off he turns them into prisoners in their own home. But it’s no Fritzl tale about the insane actions of a perverted individual; it’s about a culture of oppression that still exists on the outskirts of an otherwise very modern society. It is a roar of young female power and sexuality and the terrified, controlling patriarchs that try and suffocate and silence it. There is something so raw about the story and the performances, it just ripped through me. I cried so much it was sort of embarrassing. Stories about siblings always tug at my heart as I am so close to my own. There is also some incredible hair.2 | Gig The Libertines      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Libertines, (l-r): John Hassall, Carl Barât, Pete Doherty and Gary Powell.My brother-in-law is obsessed, to an almost romantic degree, with Pete Doherty. For his birthday, my husband and I took him to the Libertines’ gig at Alexandra Palace. Admittedly, I’d never properly focused on them as a band. I heard more stories about their rock’n’roll history than I had their music, so wasn’t sure what to expect but they were utterly electrifying. Pete and his love/hate partner, Carl Barât, are simply godlike on stage. Their lyrics are poetry and the chemistry between them is like nothing I’ve seen before. I’m hooked. Everyone was going mental and the energy was so unique. It was especially cathartic for my brother-in-law, since his Pete-crush was more than validated.3 | Book The Versions of Us by Laura Barnett      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Laura Barnett, author of The Versions of Us. Photograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianDespite my nose for dark humour and twisted tales, every now and again I just want a damn good love story. A proper one. I can’t bear sentimental smush, I want the real deal. Two people against the world, living and ideally dying for each other. I dissolved into this book, I loved it so much. Two people meet and fall in love, but in three different ways, over an entire lifetime. This is a real story of what it is to live a whole life, carrying all your decisions about it along with you; it’s about choice and love and how profoundly the two things affect a human life. There is a passage at the end about finding love again later in life that slayed me.4 | DocumentaryGoing Clear: Scientology and the Prison of Belief by Alex Gibney      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Church of Scientology building in Los Angeles. Photograph: HBO/Everett/REX ShutterstockThis documentary is like someone dripping ice water down your spine for 90 thrilling minutes. It’s a beautifully told insider’s explanation of the Church of Scientology through the people who got out. I’m fascinated with the cult of personality, people’s need to have a leader and, especially, extraordinary stories of when maniacs rise to that challenge. There is so much cynicism around the “religion” of Scientology, yet it appealed to the most intelligent people. It’s a riveting conversation about need and belonging. The church originally advertised itself as a self-help regime that could cheer up the world but became a cult in which people got beaten up and relieved of all their money. Fascinating and terrifying.5 | StandupLouis CK      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Louis CK performing at the Funny Or Die Oddball Comedy Festival, Austin, Texas, 2014. Photograph: Gary Miller/Getty ImagesI saw Louis CK’s most recent gig at Wembley Arena. Standup gigs to me have always been intimate affairs in small rooms with spilt beers, but this was extraordinary. Thousands of people stood before him, baying for his words, his ideas, his take on life. He is a true artist; he uses comedy to philosophise, challenge, attack, reassure and poke his audience. His FX show Louie and his self-funded epic Horace and Pete are some of the best TV I’ve ever seen. There is an honesty about his work that burns… I can be laughing one moment and contemplating the human condition in a whole new way the next. He’s the bollocks and I’d follow him anywhere.6 | PodcastGuilty Feminist      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sofie Hagen and Deborah Frances-White of Guilty FeministDeborah Frances-White and Sofie Hagen are hilarious, irreverent, eternally surprising, classy as hell, genius comedians. They boldly discuss everything from the sublime to the ridiculous regarding the female experience, always have fascinating guests, don’t pull any punches and are screamingly funny. It’s shows like this that breathe life into conversations about feminism. They’re not out to shock or preach – they are out to confess, to inquire and to challenge each other and, in turn, their audience. I leave each episode with a new thought and a naughty giggle until the next one. Everyone is talking about them talking.7 | TheatreGlenn Close in Sunset Boulevard      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michael Xavier as Joe Gillis and Glenn Close as Norma Desmond, at the London Coliseum, April 2016. Photograph: Richard Hubert SmithFor all the endless dashing around for the newest, edgiest thing sometimes you just have to see the greats do the classics. We watch this eccentric, old silent movie star seduce and manipulate a younger man to feed her fading dreams and also watch him exploit her neediness. God, it’s exciting, dark, sexy and hilarious. Glenn’s first song is called Surrender; she all but floats down the stairs, with an ache in her heart and you can almost feel it in your own. She plays the naivety of a child with the gravitas of a goddess. In the final moments, I turned to look down the aisle to see rows upon rows of wet cheeks and shining eyes. We all left the theatre knowing we’d just shared something very special.