The question of Taylor Swift’s absence from the MTV Video Music Awards, a source of much speculation, has been put to bed: she was being considered for jury duty.A Nashville judge dismissed the 26-year-old pop star as a potential juror in an aggravated rape and kidnapping case on Monday, which clashed with the awards ceremony in New York.Taylor Swift condemns Kim Kardashian's release of Kanye West chat Ken Whitehouse, a spokesman for the Davidson County district attorney general’s office, told Associated Press that Swift had raised concerns about her pending civil case that also involved sexual assault.“She asked to be left off out of concern for an upcoming trial in Denver where she was – she used the term – ‘groped’ by a fan at a meet-and-greet,” said Whitehouse.A former radio host, David Mueller, sued Swift in September last year, stating that he lost his job because of false accusations he grabbed the singer’s buttocks backstage during a 2013 photo shoot. Swift launched a counterclaim the following month, in which attorneys said she had been “surprised, upset, offended, and alarmed” by the alleged assault. Swift told the judge she would be more than willing to serve on a jury in any other type of case, said Whitehouse. The jury duty hearing clashed with the MTV Video Music Awards at Madison Square Garden on Monday night.Swift had not been nominated for an award, and reportedly had not submitted any videos for consideration.But whether or not she would attend the ceremony had been the source of much speculation given her long-running feud with Kanye West and his wife, Kim Kardashian West.Organisers had given the notoriously outspoken West four minutes on stage with which to do whatever he wanted – and he did mention Swift, in passing, in his rambling monologue.Tracey Bates, a resident of Tennessee and fellow potential juror, broke the news of Swift’s whereabouts when she tweeted: “I am on jury duty with @taylorswift13”.Bates tweeted at first that Swift’s security personnel initially would not let her take a picture. Tracy's Activism (@TracysActivism)Got an autograph in my copy of The New Jim CrowAugust 29, 2016But later Bates posted a video and numerous photos, including a selfie with Swift in the waiting room. (These, and several other tweets by Bates, have since been deleted as she attempts to curb the media’s use of her photos.)Bates said Swift had been happy to pose with other potential jurors before she was dismissed from the pool, and had autographed her copy of The New Jim Crow with: “So nice to meet you!!”Tracy's Activism (@TracysActivism)They won't let us take pictures with @taylorswift in the jury room.August 29, 2016Tracy's Activism (@TracysActivism)Autograph pic.twitter.com/rGhidh4EP2August 29, 2016   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Taylor Swift records a video with potential juror Katie Sydnor Caplenor. Credit: AP / Katie Sydnor CaplenorBryan Merville said he took a photo with Swift for his daughters, who are huge fans. He said he was one of about 140 people waiting in a holding area on Monday morning before they were called to separate courtrooms. About 15 to 20 people asked Swift for a photo or autograph.“She’s about as famous as they come, but she couldn’t have been nicer,” Merville said. “She took the time to talk to every person who asked her for a picture.” A representative for the singer did not respond to Reuters for comment on Swift’s jury duty or on West’s VMAs speech.Associated Press and Reuters contributed to this report.• This report was amended on 31 August 2016. A previous version incorrectly stated that Swift said she felt she could not be impartial in the case.