At this year's Garden Retail Awards the best new product went to Roundup Gel from Scotts Miracle-Gro - a weedkiller that you paint on to the plant you don't like and hey presto, it dies. That's the best we could celebrate in 2012, an old chemical made a bit thicker and packaged in a fancy pot?I could rant that the British Garden Retail Awards decided to celebrate a product from an American multinational, or I could rage about Monsanto's involvement with GMOs, or for that matter Scotts Miracle-Gro's own less-than-ethical recent history: this is the year when it pleaded guilty to selling poisoned bird seed to the unsuspecting public in the US (Roundup is a registered trade mark of Monsanto, and Scotts Miracle-Gro is the exclusive agent for marketing and distributing Roundup in the US and most of Europe). But it would just that: a rant and a rage.However, I can tell you why I think that for the home gardener weedkillers are a bit of a dead end.Ralph Waldo Emerson famously said, "What is a weed? A plant whose virtues have never been discovered." Today, I think we know differently. They have many uses, from soil fertility to wildlife refuge and food. To sully them as being something that we merely need to rid ourselves of does justice to neither their tenacity or our intelligence.It doesn't matter how much you spray, hoe or dig, they will always come back. They are by their nature determined plants with all sorts of resources, from complicated root networks that can thrust up through hard earth to staggered germination that allows them to keep a hold on their world. They've evolved to be less sensitive to their habitats than many other plants, which is how and why they colonise ground so quickly. And here's the interesting bit: these weeds will adapt to human-induced selection pressures just as much as climatic ones. In short, weeds can and do adapt to herbicides. They can change leaf shape, become waxier so that the herbicide uptake is lessened or even mutate to outwit the herbicide.Glyphosate is the most popular herbicide worldwide due to its low toxicity, but it is also the herbicide that weeds are adapting resistance to quickest. Roundup Gel may well be the product of 2012, but it's a safe bet it won't remain there.We've been sold a lie, not because the product is not effective (I've never tried it so can't say), but because we're told to hate weeding, that weeds are the bane of our garden, that if only we didn't have to weed we could get on with the fun stuff. So, let me explode this myth now. Most of gardening is weeding and it's actually the fun bit; the lose-track-of-time, daydreaming bit; the keep fit and healthy bit (both through exercise and what nutrient-rich weeds put back into your garden via the compost); the marvel at nature and the part you get to play in it bit. Weeding and then composting feels triumphant and satisfying. You get to decide the rules: no one else decides which plants are out of place and which you get to keep. And if all that doesn't win you over from owning Roundup, perhaps this will. An old, long-bladed bread knife is a fraction of the price and a lot more effecting at getting rid of dandelions. Oh, and it doesn't go out of date either.