Juliana Buhring looks up from the menu and addresses the waiter in Italian. I sense she is about to order lunch for me, then she resists. She snaps the menu shut and says: “I’ve ordered a bottle of white wine. It’s local. He says it’s good. Do you like pizza? The pizzas here are good. You should have pizza.”We are having lunch in a restaurant beside the black sand beach in Positano, the picturesque, once-chic town built into a cliff on the Amalfi coast like a sea bird colony, where Buhring now lives. At 34 she is tall and lean, like a Samburu tribeswoman, with golden brown hair, green eyes, high cheekbones, olive skin and white teeth. There is no hint of athletic prowess in her appearance or demeanour, yet she is regarded as one of the world’s strongest ultra-endurance adventure cyclists.In 2012 Buhring cycled 18,000 miles through 19 countries in just 152 days, setting a Guinness World Record. She had a friend at home in Naples providing logistical support, but most days she set off on her bicycle, “Pegasus”, carrying only bare essentials, not knowing where she would sleep that night. She averaged 125 miles a day. It is a remarkable feat, particularly for someone who had never really been on a bicycle before she was 30. I was too cowardly to kill myself, but I hoped the trip might do it for me. I loved him so much “I remember riding a bike with training wheels in a playground in the Philippines as a six-year-old,” she says. “That was the sum total of my experience until I decided to cycle round the world in 2011. I knew next to nothing about bike technology or the science of cycling. I trained for eight months. Then I just felt I was ready. I could have delayed it, to get fitter or secure more funding, but I might never have left. Many people postpone making their dreams a reality to wait for the perfect time. There is no such thing. The perfect time is right now.” She pauses and tastes the wine.Inspiration for the journey came from an unlikely place, Buhring explains. She was trying to overcome her grief at the death of the young explorer she had fallen in love with, Hendri Coetzee, who was pulled from his kayak by a crocodile on a river in the Democratic Republic of Congo in 2010.“On a subconscious level, I think I set off hoping not to come back. I was too cowardly to kill myself, but I hoped the trip might do it for me. I loved this person so much. Losing him hurt so much. I couldn’t bounce back from that one.”It is an unlikely admission: Buhring has made a habit of bouncing back throughout her extraordinary life. Born in Greece in 1981 to a German mother and a Welsh father, she grew up among the Children of God. Founded in California in 1969, the infamous, apocalyptic cult had some 40,000 members by the 1980s and had spread across the globe. Buhring was separated from her mother at four years old. They didn’t see each other again for a decade. Using “food and sleep deprivation, beatings, exorcisms, enforced silence and public humiliation”, Buhring writes in This Road I Ride, her book about her round-the-world cycle, the cult tried to mould “an army of little soldiers for Christ”. She lived in 30 countries. She has two full siblings and 15 half-brothers and sisters.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I rode a bike when I was six. That was it before I decided to cycle round the world’: Buhring in India. Photograph: courtesy of Juliana BuhringIn 2004 she finally left the cult, aged 23. Soon after, she co-wrote Not Without My Sister with two of her sisters. The success of the book contributed to the demise of the organisation. Children of God was finally disbanded in 2010. “When I left, I had to start again with nothing. No money, no formal education. Once you realise you’re out and how awful it’s been, you get angry at first, but then it just gets better. The weight goes. And now I wouldn’t change anything about how I grew up. My experiences have given me an inner strength that allows me to appreciate a challenge. I’ve lived a very nomadic life. I had strangers taking care of me all the time as a kid, so I’m good at reading strangers now. I’m very intuitive. I’m good at understanding dangerous situations or conflict. My childhood made me adaptable, independent and empathic. I live in the present.”These are all, I suggest, characteristics that you would want in a person who was attempting to cycle round the world solo. I know. I, too, rode a bicycle around the Earth. I pedalled 25,000 miles through 40 countries in the late 1990s, though my circumnavigation took more than 1,000 days, some seven times longer than Buhring’s. Despite having a cracked rib for the 4,000 mile race, she was the first woman to finish My inspiration came from a more mundane place: I was bored of wearing a suit and sitting at a desk every day. Working as a lawyer in London, I read Full Tilt by Dervla Murphy, an account of her ride from Dunkirk to Delhi. It is a clarion call to “travel for travel’s sake”, as Robert Louis Stevenson put it. Reading Murphy, I realised you don’t need a wealth of knowledge and experience to embark on a journey like this. If you believe that human wisdom may be measured by the respect we pay to the unattainable, the mysterious or simply the different, and you have a flair for getting on with people, then you’re ready to leave now.I often furrow my brow in one of the more abstruse forms of snobbery: I think the new wave of cyclists who circumnavigate the world merely to set records are missing the point. Why set off on a great journey and then dash furiously towards the end of it? When I left, my intention was to go as slowly as possible – as the Greek poet CP Cavafy wrote: “As you set out for Ithaca/ Hope your road is a long one.”In meeting Buhring, however, I realise that we have shared many experiences. We talk about road kill: “Sometimes I wanted to write in my diary – three cats, two dogs, one skunk,” she says. “Crossing the Nullarbor Desert in Australia was the worst. It’s like a battleground. The tarmac is stained red and the stench is so bad. I didn’t see a single live animal.” We compare cyclist-hating dog stories and agree that our worst canine confrontations were in Turkey, where the big mountain dogs mean business: she carried stones in her pockets; I had a wooden club with a bulbous head made, to smite them between the eyes.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I knew next to nothing about bike technology’: Juliana Buhring in Turkey. Photograph: courtesy of Juliana BuhringInevitably we discuss wind, the master of every long-distance cyclist’s morale: Buhring was blown off the road on a volcanic plateau in New Zealand; I rode into a head wind for six weeks across Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan. We exchange thoughts on the basic but profound pleasure of satisfying raw hunger, and on our favourite national street cuisines – Thai and Turkish food came out on top. We also reflect on the asceticism of a long bicycle journey, on the conflict between intense, momentary experiences and the hours of boredom, on learning to communicate without language, and on the deep, luxurious, dreamless sleep that so often follows a full day in the saddle. I’m fascinated by what we can do when we don’t imagine we possibly can Buhring used technology that didn’t exist when I was wandering. She listened to talking books – Tolstoy, Roth, Asimov and Bukowski, among others – while I taped poems to my handlebars and learned them to enliven the tedium.She had a GPS device; I had paper maps, although we both often navigated by the sun. When her money ran out halfway round she crowdfunded the rest of the journey, receiving hundreds of small donations to a PayPal account from people following her Facebook page, as well as offers of board and lodging. When I was broke, I stopped and worked.I ask her if she had a sense of the world being bigger or smaller when she got back. The answer is smaller. Here we differ. I had an overwhelming sense of it being much bigger when I returned after three years. Even now, 17 years later, whenever I feel the centripetal forces of raising children, paying the mortgage, globalisation and social media shrinking my world, I think of the Karakoram Mountains, the red earth of the Australian Outback and the deserts of Iran. Thus I am reminded what an implausibly huge, infinitely varied planet we inhabit.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Peak performance: Rob Penn in Iran during his round-the-world ride. Photograph: Rob PennWhen the dessert menu arrives, Buhring surveys it and hands it to me. Although she survived on a diet of “burgers and booze” cycling round the world, she now eats very carefully, adhering to the principles of a ketogenic diet. Since setting the Guinness record, she has become a formidable endurance athlete. In 2013 she competed in the inaugural Transcontinental Race, from London to Istanbul: she was the only woman in a field of 31 riders and finished 9th. A year later she rode the Trans Am Bike Race – more than 4,000 miles across the USA. Despite having a cracked rib for most of the race and a pinched nerve in one leg at the end, she was the first woman to finish. Both these annual adventure bike races are unsupported.“Training is a large part of my life at the moment,” she says. “I do interval training, spinning, hill sprints and long rides. In a few weeks I’m going to ride from Mount Vesuvius near Naples to Mount Etna in Sicily – about 470 miles. I’ll ride the whole thing in one, for fun. Yesterday I rode 185 miles. Today I’m resting.”Phew! We had talked on the phone about going for a ride together along the Amalfi coast. I had packed my kit and I was going to borrow one of her bikes. Although I still ride a bike almost every day, I admit I’m relieved she’s having a rest day. I suggest that riding over 100 miles on a bicycle usually turns into a test of blind animal endurance.“I’m fascinated by what we can do when we don’t imagine we possibly can,” Buhring says, levelling her eyes at me. “I’m curious about our unexplored potential, and this is not just cycling, right? I’m interested in the whole mind and body connection. Most people have a panic alarm that says ‘Stop!’ when the body really hurts, but you might still have 20% of your energy left. How do you get that last 20% out of yourself?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Buhring in Australia’s Nullarbor Desert where ‘the tarmac is red’ with roadkill. Photograph: courtesy of Juliana Buhring“My ambition is to push myself a bit harder, to see how far I can go. It’s not about rewriting record books. I don’t consider myself a unique physical specimen. I have turned myself into an athlete. I’m experimenting. I keep stretching my limits, and I can’t be content with anything less than knowing I could not have ridden any harder. I set off round the world to exorcise the pain, to save myself. I had no idea it would lead to other bike-riding events. I thought it was a single isolated event in my life. But of course these sorts of experiences lead you to want more experiences like them. I have discovered that I have a passion for cycling.”Buhring tips her espresso down her throat in one. This June she will take part in the Race Across America (RAAM), the highest- profile ultra-distance cycling race of all. Buhring will ride the 3,000-mile route solo, averaging more than 300 miles a day. “Subconsciously the journey round the world was partly me getting over my childhood, part of my liberation. RAAM is more of a sleep-deprivation challenge than anything else,” she says.Many of the individual competitors and teams in RAAM will have large budgets and extensive support crews, but Buhring has struggled to attract sponsors. The women’s record is nine days and four hours. You wouldn’t bet against her breaking it.This Road I RideBy Juliana Buhring (an extract)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The more adversity we suffer in life, the more we savour the periods of complete happiness’: Juliana Buhring. Photograph: courtesy of Juliana BuhringUnlike the Turkish people, Turkish dogs are decidedly unfriendly.Let me rephrase that: they are terror-inspiring lions with big jaws and even bigger appetites. Today I look over my shoulder to see a pack of 15 of the massive, white and wild variety heading straight towards me from a good half a kilometre away, racing up the hill, fangs bared and hungry.“Fuuuuu…” I cry in panic, before all I can manage is desperate heavy breathing.There is nothing like a dog chase to pump up the adrenaline. Pedalling uphill in frantic fear of life and limb, I feel like a hunted rabbit with an exploding heart. I have no doubt that the dogs see me as nothing more than a giant steak on wheels.They close in with wolf-pack, strategic co-ordination. Some run on ahead, presumably with the intention of tripping up my front wheel; the rest circle on all sides. Death by dog is not how I imagined I would go. Keep pedalling, goddammit!At that moment a loud horn blasts close behind me and I turn to see a car racing down the middle of the pack. One dog squeals as the car crunches into it and the rest leap out of the way. I pedal into the centre of the highway and the driver pulls up alongside, effectively creating a barrier between me and the dogs. He keeps his hand on the horn the entire time.The dogs continue to bark and snap. I crest the hill, accelerate to a heady speed on the descent, and watch the pack fall back as they realise the chase is futile. I will live to cycle another day. The driver waves and drives on. I give him a thumbs-up.Thank God for road angels.Still rattled by my narrow escape, I stop for a late lunch at a little restaurant next to a roadside service station. The owner and his son seem pleased when I shuffle through the door. I am their only customer so they roll out the royal treatment.Naturally they are curious to know what I’m doing out here, alone on a bike, so I tell them all about the world cycle. We understand each other perfectly, even though the whole conversation is conducted in charades, since they speak no more than five words of English and I know even less Turkish. I’m grateful for my years in Italy, where communication with the hands is part of everyday life.They want to know what I think of Turkey.Food: superb. People: wonderful. But as for the dogs! Let me tell you about the dogs. I gesticulate my latest misadventure, ending with the motorist scattering the pack with his car.Apparently this is one of the funniest things they’ve ever heard.They pound the table as they laugh.“It wasn’t funny at the time, trust me,” I say.They suggest that I must be very hungry after a chase like that.“Yes, very. What is good to eat?” I point at something on the menu.They give an approving thumbs-up and manage to find the English words: “Good meat.”“What kind of meat is it?”They look perplexed, so it’s back to the old charades, along with some sound effects.“Moooo?” I suggest, making horns with my fingers.They shake their heads.I do the funky chicken, clucking moronically.More head-shaking.“Baaaa?”“Yes! Yes!”A few minutes later I am enjoying a rich lamb stew, chunky bread and lots of cheese.Language is overrated.This Road I Ride by Juliana Buhring is published by Piatkus Books on 19 May for 13.99. To order a copy for £11.19, click on the linkRob Penn is the author of The Man Who Made Things Out of Trees and It’s All About the Bike