When the world’s biggest bike race finally reaches the Champs-Élysées on Sunday afternoon, most British eyes will be on Chris Froome as he attempts to win his third Tour de France.But the members of one cycling club in north-west England are less interested who ends up in yellow than which rider crosses the line with the white jersey awarded to the best young rider. Bury Clarion Club will celebrate one of their own, 23-year-old Adam Yates, who will be given that honour when he crosses the line after spending much of the race in podium position.Yates dropped to fourth place after a gruelling day in the mountains on Friday, and maintained that position yesterday. But back home in Bury, his clubmates are keeping the faith, hopeful he will make it on to the steps in Paris alongside Froome in only his second attempt at the Tour.“I can’t wait to know the final result,” said membership secretary and club oracle Peter Roscoe, who has been with the club since 1949. “I’m 82 years old, but I’ve not been watching it sitting down this year – it’s been that agonising.“I’m exhausted. I want to know how it ends, so that I know if I’m going to feel deflated or on top of the world.”Riding the wave of cycling’s increasing popularity, with the membership of British Cycling leaping from 50,000 to 123,500 in the four years since Bradley Wiggins became the first Briton to win the Tour de France, Bury Clarion Club has never had so many members in its 115-year history. A record 112 people have paid their £10 subs for the current season, including many young people inspired by Yates and his unfortunate twin, Simon, who is serving a doping ban after an exemption certificate for his asthma inhaler was not obtained.Whatever his end result, Adam Yates would not show off about it, said Roscoe. “The twins don’t do the celebrity thing. Years ago I proposed them both for junior sportsman of the year and they came to the club presentation, but afterwards I got the message: ‘Don’t do that again, Peter.’”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 100 years of Bury ClarionBury Clarion Club was formed in the first cycling boom at the beginning of the last century. One January day in 1901 seven fearless women saddled up, adjusted their flowing skirts and straw boaters and pedalled slowly through Bury’s streets. They were greeted by local people shouting “shame” and “hussies” as well as booing children, who ran alongside, according to a report in the Bury Times. History records that the women were followed – at a respectable distance – by 20 gentlemen on bicycles.Together they aimed not only to found the Bury section of the National Clarion Cycling Club but also spread the gospel of socialism.The national Clarion movement began in Manchester in 1891 when the journalist Robert Blatchford walked out of his well-paid job on the Sunday Chronicle to start the Clarion newspaper. Appalled by the state of the city’s slums, Blatchford aimed to inspire others to create a better society through cooperation. His enterprising readers set up a string of societies, among them the Clarion Cycling Club, Vocal Unions, the Clarion Fellowship, Clarion Handicraft Clubs, Clarion Scouts, Rambling Clubs and Cinderella Clubs (which organised events for children).Originally called the Socialist Cycling Club, the National Clarion Club issued a handbook in 1926 which listed eight objectives, including “To prevent domination of class over mass” and “Not to feed the shirker at the cost of the worker but to order that ‘he who will not work shall not eat’, whether he be tramp or duke.”About two million adults in England cycle at least once a week, according to the latest statistics from Sport England. The roads in and around Bury are certainly busy with cyclists emulating their local Tour de France hero.Ten months ago Colin Davies and his wife, Choi, opened the Drop Off cafe in Edenfield, a few miles up the road from Redvales, where the Yates boys grew up. Their father, John, often pops in, and Simon had a brew there during his off-season.Sitting outside mid-ride on Friday, Phil Simcock and his daughters Iona, nine, and Ciara, 11, were buzzing with Adam’s success. The girls were wearing jerseys from Team JMC, a rapidly expanding local family-friendly club that welcomes allcomers.“It does make a difference that Adam Yates is local,” said Simcock. “I’ve been cycling for a long time but at work people who aren’t normally into cycling have been coming up to talk to me about him. Things are changing. I get invited to take part in more corporate sportives these days than I do golf days.”At Leisure Lakes Bikes in Bury, assistant manager Matt Chesters was a little less optimistic. “We’ve had the boom,” he said, the roomy shopfloor empty on a sunny morning. “There was the Bradley Wiggins effect four years ago, after he won the Tour and then gold in the Olympics, when we got all these golfers coming in saying they wanted to buy bikes instead. But they realised that cycling is actually quite a hard sport, and we don’t see as many of them any more.”He added: “The cycle industry at the moment has plateaued. After the London Olympics our business nearly doubled in two years, but a massive spike like that can’t go on and on.”