Greenpeace activists have blockaded a palm oil refinery owned by IOI in the port of Rotterdam after a report linked the company’s third-party suppliers in Indonesia to deforestation, forest fires and human rights abuses, including child labour.Palm oil giant's impact in Indonesia worse than reported, says Greenpeace For seven hours on Tuesday, a felled tree barricaded the entrance to the Croklaan refinery, which processes palm oil mostly sourced from Indonesia and Malaysia.Police watched as a Greenpeace ship, the Esperanza, and kayakers blocked entrances to the docking jetty. Officers later moved in, forcibly cutting activists from the log and a company fence that they had locked themselves on to. Thirteen people were arrested.The 750,000 tonnes of palm oil that enter Croklaan every year are destined for use across western Europe in biodiesel and products ranging from shampoos to baby milk powder. About two-thirds of IOI’s palm oil is sourced from third-party suppliers such as Korindo, Eagle High, and the Indofood/Salim group, which have contributed to the disappearance of a quarter of Indonesia’s rainforest in the last two decades, according to a Greenpeace report.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Greenpeace activists protest at the refinery. Photograph: Marten van Dijl/GreenpeaceMeike Rijksen, a Greenpeace campaigner on the protest, said: “IOI has been involved in rainforest destruction, fires and human rights abuses in Indonesia, through the actions of its suppliers, for almost 10 years. Unilever and Nestlé have already cancelled contracts with IOI at the beginning of this year over these issues but unfortunately IOI has not changed its practices. Today, we hope to give them an extra push to do what is necessary to protect the rainforests and peoples of the region.”Fire “seasons” in the Indonesian archipelago began in 1997 and have been attributed to the “collective negligence” of companies, smallholders and governments.So far this year, blazes in the region are 75% down on last year’s total, thanks to heavy rain and government action. But more than 100,000 people are thought to have died in the region last year due to haze caused by the fires, which are frequently caused by slash and burn, peatland drainage and land clearances for plantations.In 2015 haze killed 19 people and triggered 500,000 cases of acute respiratory tract infections, in a hellish inferno that threatened a third of the world’s wild orangutangs.Last year’s fires were also a major contributor to global warming, releasing more CO2 emissions daily – from burned trees and carbon-rich peatland – than the entire US economy.Greenpeace reveals Indonesia's forests at risk as multiple companies claim rights to same land​ Greenpeace’s report alleges that third-party suppliers to IOI have been involved in primary forest destruction in Papua and Kalimantan, as well as peatland developments and human rights abuses of forest peoples.Extensive fires in concessions held by one reported IOI supplier “raise questions about deliberate or negligent mismanagement”, the analysis says. The palm oil supplier controls about 425,000 hectares of land in Kalimantan, Sulawesi, Papua and Sumatra, and is also accused of human rights abuses.“It has been reported that children as young as six work in the plantation to support their parents,” the paper says, of the same supplier. “In April 2014 two employees were imprisoned after demanding better working conditions. Indonesian state security forces appear to be used as guards at the plantation, and its members were involved in the fatal shooting of a company employee in December 2015.”Palm oil produced from such third-party operators has been imported into Europe and North America over the last year, according to Greenpeace’s paper.Its analysis is based on IOI supply data, concession maps, Nasa fire hotspot data, deforestation alerts, public reports, and official Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil complaints.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Burnt forest and drainage canals cutting through an area of high conservation value in the PT Bumi Sawit Sejahtera (IOI) oil palm concession in Ketapang, west Kalimantan. The area of peat swamp was identified as habitat for orangutans, bears and other wildlife. Photograph: Bjorn Vaugn/GreenpeaceA statement by IOI acknowledged there was a problem but said that an industry-wide approach was critically needed to ensure compliance by third-party suppliers.“IOI accepts Greenpeace’s challenge to use its voice and influence to help achieve the outcomes both IOI and Greenpeace desire. We therefore today call for all our fellow industry players to come together and reach agreement on solutions that will lead to a truly sustainable supply of one of the world’s most commonly used commodities,” an IOI statement said.“We also ask that Greenpeace use its own convening power and leverage, by joining us in encouraging others to take part, and that it and other specialist NGOs also participate. IOI stands ready to host such a gathering of the major palm oil producing businesses, and asks that Greenpeace joins us in this endeavor.”Greenpeace dismissed the offer as “an exercise in passing the buck” designed to block its demands for cancelling contracts with the named third-party suppliers. Annisa Rahmawati, an Indonesian Greenpeace activist, said: “Unless IOI is willing to take these decisive, measurable actions to clean up its supply chain, its commitment to ‘use its voice and influence’ is meaningless. A failure to act is a betrayal of the millions of people affected each year by land conflicts, forced labour, and pollution from forest fires as a result of the actions of IOI and its suppliers.”More Greenpeace direct actions against IOI are thought likely in the near future. 