One of the many adages that circulate in the movie business is that every film is made three times: once when it is written, once when it is shot and once, finally, when it is edited. Like many an old saw it is true, but I believe that it is a truth that can only really be recognised by people who have been physically involved in the making of a film. I don’t think audiences, or film critics or film theorists, for that matter, have any real idea of how a film can be totally reshaped and reinvented in the cutting room. As a film-maker, you hope that the editing process is merely an enhancement of your original vision – but sometimes what occurs in the cutting room can be something entirely new. In that regard great editors can be as important as great film directors or great screenwriters. They can be equal auteurs of a film, when called on – but that is usually when a film is in deep trouble.Jim Clark (who died on 25 February at the age of 84) was a great editor – a great British editor – and, indeed, something of a legend in the industry. His career spans a vast swath of British and American film history, from Ealing comedies in the 1950s, to Stanley Donen’s Charade with Cary Grant and Audrey Hepburn, to a Brosnan Bond, all the way to Mike Leigh’s Happy-Go-Lucky in 2008, the last film he edited.He was known in the business as “Dr Clark” because very frequently he was called on when a film was sick and he was needed to make it well again. His most famous work of doctoring was for Midnight Cowboy (1969). John Schlesinger was the director, and he realised, when he tried to cut the film together, that it was in dire straits. Jim was called (he and Schlesinger had collaborated on other films) and went to work. He recut the film in its entirety, and it was his idea to put Harry Nilsson singing “Everybody’s Talkin’” on the soundtrack. It is impossible to imagine Midnight Cowboy without Nilsson singing that song. Jim’s new cut won the film three Oscars – including one for Schlesinger’s direction and one for “Best Film”. If there was ever an instance of a film being remade a third time in the cutting room, then Midnight Cowboy is the shining exemplar. Everybody thinks Jim also won an Oscar for his heroic editing job, but his credit on the finished movie is only “creative consultant”. There are no Oscars for creative consultants, however vital they are. Jim did win an Oscar later, however, for The Killing Fields in (1984).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cary Grant and Audrey Hepburn inCharade (1963). Photograph: Allstar/Cinetext/UniversalI remember being in a neighbouring cutting room in Soho when Jim was editing The Killing Fields – he was in London and the film was shooting in Thailand. I had recently met him through his wife Laurence Méry-Clark, who was the editor of the first film I wrote, Good and Bad at Games (1983). We began to see each other socially from time to time and our friendship fortuitously began.A form of professional association with Jim started a little later when my third film, Stars and Bars (1988), was produced at Columbia Pictures when David Puttnam was head of the studio. Jim had given up his day job as film editor and had moved to Los Angeles with Puttnam to be a senior executive at Columbia. Jim gently shepherded Stars and Bars through Columbia, though it was eventually released after Puttnam’s tenure and when the LA period of Jim’s life – not entirely enjoyable, as he would be the first to admit – was also over.Dream Repairman: Adventures in Film Editing by Jim Clark – review Our friendship continued back in London and we soon worked together again on the film of my first novel A Good Man in Africa (1994), with Jim editing and me as the writer/co‑producer. Bruce Beresford was director but he had to leave us early to shoot another film and, consequently, Jim and I were thrust together to see the film through some of its post-production phases. Neither of us was particularly at ease in this role. I remember a fraught afternoon in a Wembley sound studio supervising the recording of the music score – Jim and I tentatively taking turns to give the increasingly resentful composer our somewhat critical notes. It did not go well. When Beresford returned the film was rescored.When I eventually came to direct my first film, The Trench (1999), there was only one editor I could possibly choose. I asked Jim and, luckily for me, he said yes, with one caveat: he would have to leave almost immediately after the shoot and the first assembly of the film to cut the new James Bond, The World Is not Enough. I said no problem: I was extremely fortunate to have him on board in any capacity, and I knew it. The editor who took over was Jim’s wife. It became a family affair.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It was a fascinating process and I wonder if my experience was common to the other directors he worked with. Jim once said that the director/editor relationship was as complex as a marriage. But in this case, you – the director – were married to an editor who, however delightful a man he was, was also renowned for his disarmingly brutal candour: Jim Clark was fearlessly, terrifyingly honest.Jim Clark obituary Very conscious of this and standing on the set of The Trench on my first day of principal photography, I evolved a plan with my script supervisor Liz West. We didn’t need a plan of attack, I told her: knowing that it was Jim cutting together the rushes in the editing suite – we needed a plan of defence instead. Consequently, Jim became a kind of admonitory ghostly presence on the set, as if he were hovering at our backs. We would shoot the scene in question and then Liz and I would try to second-guess what the Clarkian analysis and response would be. “What would Jim think?” became our working mantra. Because we were shooting on a set at Bray Studios, the cutting room was only 50 yards away and Jim was able wander over occasionally to see how we were getting on. He never said very much, but from time to time we would receive terse handwritten notes: “I need another closeup”; “This scene won’t cut together”; “This shot goes on too long”; “I need a reverse on this character” – and so forth. Our aim was to get through a day without receiving any feedback from the cutting room. It was, I see now, a form of benign on-the-job training for me and I came to understand a huge amount about how to shoot a film and, equally important, I began to understand how the third stage in a film’s creative life evolves.In 2009 Jim published a memoir of his life as an editor in the British, European and American film industry. Over his career he had worked – often several times – with film directors as diverse as Alexander McKendrick, Schlesinger, Donen, Jack Clayton, Franco Zefferelli, Michael Apted, Roland Joffé, István Szabó and Leigh. It is a classic account of an editor’s working life and is also modest, funny and, by Jim’s standards, surprisingly discreet – he was a wonderfully scurrilous anecdotalist. The book’s title, significantly, was The Dream Repairman. When your cinematic dreams break down you need someone to repair them urgently – and nobody was better at that job than Jim Clark.