Welcome back to Successville, a Raymond Chandler-ish city of neon signs and perpetual night. The murder rate is astronomical. A lonely detective fights hard against a tide of crime. But all the people he meets are famous: Gordon Ramsay is the police chief, Taylor Swift does forensics, Alan and Jimmy Carr are gangster twins, Ian McKellen is a salty old fisherman.Murder in Successville review – a celebrity whodunnit where no one is quite who they seem That was the premise of one of last year’s unlikeliest TV hits, and a show that can claim to be the most recklessly original programme of the moment: BBC3’s Murder in Successville. A mash of reality show, prank show, sitcom and crime spoof, it does the improbable and makes something new from the concept of fame.TV programmes are meant to be summarisable in a one-line pitch. Sadly that’s not possible here. The familiar names listed above are actually impersonations, too ridiculous to be libellous, by up-and-coming comics. Investigating the weekly murder are the only two characters who aren’t cartoons of celebs: imposing 6ft 7in star of the show Tom Davis as feckless gumshoe DI Sleet, and a weekly guest who is a real celebrity, playing Sleet’s rookie sidekick. The real celebrity – still with us? – is not shown the script. They’re not invited to rehearsals. They improvise their interactions with Sleet and the pretend celebs.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It amounts to what its creators call an “immersive experience” for the celebrity stooges, who in season two – which returns to BBC3 this week and will air on telly some time in the future, too – include Union J’s George Shelley, Sky Sports pundit Chris Kamara, Baby Spice Emma Bunton and Towie’s Mark Wright. They are forced to react on the fly to a cavalcade of absurd events and a pervy barracking from Davis, starting with an excruciating opening scene in which they’re introduced to Sleet in his office.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Neil Maskell as Frankie Boyle.Season one aired to some befuddlement and the odd one-star review (“An unholy mess” – the Daily Telegraph). But what sounded like a desperate attempt to do the 21st century’s various types of high-concept, post-celebrity comedy all at once – “I get asked nearly every day, how did you get that through commissioning?” laughs Davis – turned out to be more interesting. Forcing a D-lister to invent dialogue achieves what Big Brother and I’m a Celebrity always strove for: you see a little of what that person is really like.“It’s a show with a celeb that’s not a panel show or chatshow,” explains director James De Frond, “and you see a side of them you’ve not seen in any other format. They let themselves go once they’ve got that office scene out of their system. Then they’re starring in their own movie.”Whether or not we believe De Frond’s claim that the celebs are “literally walked around in a blindfold”, a bit of time spent on set makes clear they are not allowed to relax too much. They’re shown to their mark, with no pep talk, hints, or even feedback after a scene. When De Frond calls “Cut”, they’re ushered off stage to keep them apart from everyone else. “I don’t give them any direction. I direct the experience. It’s like a haunted house at Thorpe Park.”Murder In Successville: the new Mighty Boosh or a freshened up Star Stories? The secret of Murder In Successville’s success is that, because of how carefully it’s made, it works whatever the celebrity of the week does. If they panic, that’s funny. If they lose it under pressure from Davis and giggle, that’s funny. (De Frond: “We leave in one corpse an episode. There’s nothing more infectious than seeing people laugh.”) And, as Emma Bunton proves in the new series, it is possible for the guest to spend most of their episode in mute, mildly disgusted bewilderment without losing many laughs, because there’s a pretty funny sitcom underneath it all anyway.MIS is best when the celebrity proves that their public persona matches their actual character. Deborah Meaden provided one of series one’s standout episodes by remaining magnificently on-brand throughout, brusquely getting on with bloody well solving the crime and turning the profane Davis’s attempts to distract her into an increasingly hysterical battle of wits.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Emma Bunton as Emma Bunton in a police uniform. Photograph: Ollie UptonCynics might say that coping with the Murder In Successville ordeal is, for the guest, like eating a witchetty grub. It’s a test that will ultimately make them look good. “To an extent, they try to prepare themselves for how they’re going to play it,” concedes De Frond. “But quickly that goes, because the experiences we put them through are so real, they can only really be themselves.”Co-creator and producer Andy Brereton says their reference points were Morecambe And Wise and The Muppet Show. “You were in the gang for that episode. That’s how we see it. We’re not making fun of you: you’ll come out looking fine.”“I think the joy of it,” says Davis, “is [working with] someone like Chris Kamara, who probably – even though he said he had – hadn’t seen the programme before. I can’t imagine Kammy and his wife sit down and say: ‘Ooh, what’s on BBC3?’ So he is just himself. It’s lovely.” Kamara does indeed throw himself into his role, climaxing with a scene where he and Davis dress up as female prostitutes, a task the cult football pundit embraces with a faintly disturbing calm.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Paul Whitehouse as Len Goodman.2016’s Murder has a new layer of meta-complexity: strong word-of-mouth for the last series led to big comedy names asking to appear. So now, some of the fake celebs are played by performers who are as famous as the people they impersonate. And while most of the actors playing celebs are scripted, the veterans on board this year preferred to improvise, getting a kick out of Murder all being filmed in one or two takes. Episode one sees Sleet interrogate Len Goodman, whom he suspects of framing him for murder. Goodman is played by Paul Whitehouse. “My hero!” beams Davis. “He was a plasterer, I was a scaffolder, neither of us had any training. He was a massive inspiration. There is a moment where I corpse, because in my head I’m like: ‘Fucking hell. Paul Whitehouse!’”Normally, Davis runs the show, toying with his unprepared prey. But here, that power dynamic is flipped. Despite being tied to a chair, and despite rarely employing improv in his own work, Whitehouse is the heavyweight, effortlessly besting every gag Davis – who as viewers of BBC4’s Going Forward saw recently, is no slouch at improv – hurls at him. When he finally breaks his younger opponent with the line “Bring back hanging for halitosis!”, it’s glorious.Whitehouse: “I’m brilliant and he lumbers along in my wake. That’s what you’re trying to say.”“You’re never going to beat Paul Whitehouse, ” Davis adds.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chris Kamara. Photograph: Ollie UptonDavis might have been overawed, but the admiration was mutual. “I saw a bit of series one,” says Whitehouse, “not much, but I was intrigued. I like Tom, I’ve seen quite a bit of his stuff. He’s quite striking, isn’t he, to say the least; the sheer size of him! Heh! The format does sound awkward, it’s very strange. But that’s why I did it. If a type of comedy is successful, TV execs want another of them. But what tends to happen is something completely leftfield comes along and is the next big thing.”Whitehouse fitted into the Murder ethos of not bothering about accurate impersonations. “I’ve never done Len Goodman before – but I’ve met him,” he says. “I know he says “Seven!” a lot, so I tried to get that in. I’ll be furious if they’ve cut my Seven. It is like my Lear, yes. How sharper than a serpent’s tooth it is to have a thankless ex-bloody scaffolder in charge of my career…”Sometimes this year’s casting is in-jokey – Kevin Bishop appears as John Bishop – but more commonly, it’s dead serious, with the purpose of knocking the celebrities off balance. Towie’s Mark Wright is confronted with Successville crime boss Frankie Boyle, played by Neil Maskell in full-on demonic Utopia mode (Davis: “Mark thought, I’ve seen him in films… serious films. Maybe this is a drama...”).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tom Davies and George Shelley. Photograph: Tiger AspectEmma Bunton, meanwhile, finally cracks in a hunting lodge, when she refuses the repulsive food offered to her by Paul Kaye as a feral, nightmarish Louis Walsh. “She was terrified,” says Davis, recalling that the shoot went on for 20 claustrophobic minutes to create the three or four we see on screen. “When I walked in, I thought, ‘I don’t want to be in here! It stinks!’ Paul became that part. He stayed in character, which was worrying at lunch.”Season two would be weirder still if Maxine Peake and Shane Meadows, who were both keen but unavailable, had made it. Not that the innocent, unscripted celebrities would necessarily have noticed, since they’re too busy trying to work out who the murderer is. Each episode ends with the chief of police demanding that Sleet’s latest assistant identify the killer. “They all want to solve it!” marvels Brereton. “Some of them are furious when they get it wrong. Emma Bunton took 40 minutes.”“Cynics would say they’re savvy,” Davis concludes. “But at the end, they don’t know if they’re right or wrong… until Gordon Ramsay tells them.” The new series of Murder in Successville can be seen from 15 June at bbc.co.uk/bbcthree