Millions of diehard House of Cards fans are set for a sleepless weekend after Netflix released the complete fourth series of the hit political drama.On Friday, the streaming company released the latest series in its entirety to its 75 million-plus subscribers in 190 countries, allowing fans addicted to the exploits of Kevin Spacey’s ruthlessly machiavellian politician Frank Underwood to binge-watch the 13-episode run in one sitting.Even the writer of the original BBC version of House of Cards, Andrew Davies, says he will probably be engrossed in the new episodes.“I’m hooked on it. I’ll probably binge-watch the new season as I’ve not yet seen the new one,” he told the Guardian. Davies is an executive producer on the US show but said it was more of a courtesy title. The BBC adaptation of Michael Dobbs’s book only ran for one series but Davies – who came up with many of the devices used in the TV show, such as Underwood’s glances and speeches to camera – said he had expected that Netflix’s Golden Globe-winning version would last longer if it became a hit.“I know that with American series the aim is to do six or seven series, so I thought it would last. I hope it lasts as long as possible, partly because I get a fee every episode they do!”House of Cards: a KKK connection isn't all Frank Underwood and Donald Trump share Davies, whose most recent hit was the BBC1 epic War & Peace, and whose future projects include an adaptation of Victor Hugo’s Les Miserables, agreed that the launch of each season had become an event, saying it was clever the way Netflix had created the box set-style binge.“It’s totally destroyed work patterns,” he joked, adding: “I promise myself I will watch an episode at the end of a working day.”Joris Evers, Netflix’s head of communications for Europe, Middle East and Africa, said the high-profile race for the White House had added to the usual buzz around the global launch of a new series.“Having a new season of House of Cards premiere on Netflix is a major event for us,” he said. “House of Cards is a true phenomenon and Netflix members around the globe have been looking forward to series four. The Underwoods won’t disappoint. The season is epic and especially timely in the context of the US election.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Trailer for House of Cards season 4The eagerly anticipated new series has been accompanied by a clever marketing campaign which has taken advantage of topical political issues. In the UK, the fictional Underwood gave his views on the EU referendum in the Times in a piece that appeared to be written by Dobbs, who is campaigning for Brexit. And in the US, advertisers have drawn parallels between the current real-life presidential race and the one going on in House of Cards. Promotion of the fourth series began late last year with a spoof presidential campaign ad that aired during a CNN debate among Republican presidential candidates including Donald Trump.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ian Richardson, the scheming chief whip Francis Urquhart in the original House of Cards. Photograph: PA“As we were coming up with the idea with the team at Netflix, the presidential race loomed large and we wanted to take advantage of that,” said John Patroulis, creative chairman at ad agency BBH New York. “We also knew it would be a highly watched, and contentious debate, and it did set a record audience. Donald Trump was gift for us – at least from a marketing perspective.”A number of news outlets referred to the Underwood campaign ad as having “won” on the night in terms of coverage and social media buzz. A polling firm even evaluated it seriously among voters in comparison with those of Jeb Bush and Marco Rubio.The 30-second ad has been viewed 1.8m times and marked the start of a wide-ranging rollout of the political campaign-themed ad strategy that uses lines including “Whatever it takes”, a tongue-in-cheek reference to Spacey’s totally unscrupulous character.“Netflix doesn’t do a lot of TV advertising so we wanted to make a big media bet that was very targeted,” said Patroulis. “That ad kicked it all off. [Now] you can buy T-shirts, buttons, bumper stickers and we set up a campaign HQ [for Underswood] in South Carolina, his home state. It really caught fire.”The marketing also includes a fake campaign website – where Underwood’s un-nerving gaze is turned towards the viewer when a keyboard cursor runs over his eyes – plus a spoof presidential pardon from the politician on Twitter for those planning to take the day off work to watch the show. With Netflix thought to have an international marketing budget of around $1bn (£700m) and $5bn committed to covering programming rights this year, the streaming service has deep pockets to promote the show that has become its global masterbrand.Netflix does not disclose audience figures, but according to experts Ampere Analysis, about a third of the estimated 5.2 million Netflix UK subscribers are House of Cards fans. “The ‘Netflix effect’ has impacted the whole TV industry, not just in terms of how broadcasters seek to reach their viewers, but also in terms of focus on original TV drama and the way content is packaged for consumption,” said Guy Bisson, research director at Ampere Analysis. “Binge-viewing is here to stay with the concept of TV box sets, packaged for immediate consumption, now ingrained in the industry.”About 80% of young Netflix viewers say they binge-watch regularly, so those “binge-aholics” are likely to be brewing strong coffee and feasting on all 13 episodes this weekend. To paraphrase Underwood, sleep is so overrated.