I have been selling some old items on eBay, and in one transaction the purchaser complained about a game he bought from me. When we couldn’t reach agreement I asked eBay to step in, and it sided with the buyer. When the item was returned to me (damaged due to inadequate packing) I phoned customer services to challenge the decision and was disturbed by the ensuing conversation. The people I spoke to had no knowledge of the grounds on which I had disagreed with the buyer and denied any contact had taken place. When I then told them that the item had been returned to me damaged, I was told there was nothing that eBay could do. Some six weeks later, after waiting for a response to a letter, I found another contact email and was told I could raise a claim against the carrier. When I pointed out that the item had been returned using eBay’s carrier I was told I should have bought insurance. There was never an option to buy insurance; the cost of the return postage was simply taken out of my account. The result is that two months later I have not only lost the sale but am also left with a damaged item. ND, SheffieldUpon receipt of the game, the buyer contacted you immediately and complained that several cards were damaged – not mentioned in the original listing.Communication between both parties showed disagreement about the damage. You claimed this was just wear and tear, while your customer said it should have been reflected in the item description, and if he had been aware of the damage he would not have placed a bid. No agreement was found and a case was filed – standard practice when buyers and sellers fail to agree.In a statement eBay said: “We have reviewed the case and agreed with the original outcome. We always encourage sellers to provide an accurate description of the items they list for sale. On used items in particular it is vital to mention any damage or deficiencies. This lack of information ultimately led to the case being filed and decided accordingly.”On the basis that this was a misunderstanding, with no malice on the buyer’s part, eBay has refunded you. Your case is less about customer service and more about the importance of accurate photographs and the descriptions of items.If you need help email Anna Tims at your.problems@observer.co.uk or write to Your Problems, The Observer, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. Include an address and phone number.