In the subterranean engine room of the world’s first river tunnel – the Brunel, which runs under the Thames between Rotherhithe and Wapping – Liane Carroll, Sophie Bancroft and Sara Colman are singing swing jazz for an audience seated on fold-up chairs.The notes bounce off brick walls blackened with soot from a century of steam trains. It is a strange new life for a room that once clanked to the sound of heavy machinery – long since removed – 10 metres beneath south-east London.The venue is just one example of the way Britain is rediscovering a hidden world of tunnels and underground chambers, and repurposing them as bars, performance and exhibition spaces – or as attractions in their own right. With funding for public infrastructure scarce, they also provide their owners with a new revenue stream.The Brunel tunnel, which was built by Marc Isambard Brunel and his better-known son, Isambard Kingdom Brunel, opened for foot passengers in 1843 and was later absorbed into the London Underground system. Back then, the room that now hosts concerts and art exhibitions housed the tunnel’s drainage pumps. Another addition is an outdoor cocktail bar at surface level.“I think it’s incredible,” says Carroll as she looks around the chamber during the interval. “I love the rawness of it. It’s very organic – a great place to get a bit wild. At first, we got in and thought, ‘Oh my God, the echoes!’, but it has been fantastic. Actually, it’s mind blowing to sing somewhere like this.”The Guardian’s theatre critic, Lyn Gardner, says the environment allows visitors to feel transported. She saw a dance performance there last year and says: “It is small, cramped but intensely atmospheric. For the right piece, it’s a potentially exciting space. Even getting into it is like falling down a rabbit hole.”Transport for London, which owns the tunnel – the engine room and attached museum are owned by a trust – has led the way in finding new uses for its subterranean properties. Some tube stations are regularly used for filming, a couple have been used as pop-up cinemas and some of the estate is open to tourists.Sightseers can explore Down Street station in west London, which was used by Winston Churchill’s Cabinet Office during the second world war; wander a labyrinth of disused tunnels under Euston station to view a gallery of vintage advertising posters; or visit the passages under Clapham South station, which were used to house Caribbean immigrants who had arrived on the SS Windrush in 1948.Perhaps the most unusual use for a TfL tunnel is as a herb farm. Beneath the streets of Clapham in south London, Growing Underground makes the most of a tightly controlled environment in terms of light, temperature and humidity. Its co-founder, Steven Dring, says the farm’s location means he can have his products on a restaurant plate within four hours of being picked. “The idea came from a conversation with my business partner,” he says. “He knew about places underneath London, so we tried doing it with hydroponics in a tunnel. It’s a well-lit, sanitised environment – though when we first took it over we were going down with head torches and it was quite scary. Now it’s a working farm.”Some of Britain’s newly opened transport tunnels are still very much used for their intended purpose, and tourism is a byproduct. The Queensway tunnel under the river Mersey, for example, offers tours (at £6 a head) four days a week to show the workings of the crossing from Liverpool to Birkenhead. It has hundreds of reviews on Tripadvisor, with an impressive average score of 4.9 out of 5. It is “fabulous & amazing”, according to Angela. Juan adds: “If you go to Liverpool and wonder what is the odd Egyptian Art Deco building behind the ‘three graces’ [the city’s landmark buildings], this tour will unravel the engineering marvels hidden in the interior. At times it feels like a movie set of Metropolis.”In Newcastle, the Victoria tunnel – built in the 19th century for wagons transporting coal to the Tyne and used as an air raid shelter in the second world war – has, like the Brunel one, become an events space. On 3-4 September, as part of a 1940s weekend, a historical re-enactment group will herd members of the public into the tunnel as a simulated air raid takes place, complete with casualties and sound effects.