Last month, the British government launched a public consultation over plans to force porn sites to implement age checks, following up on the Conservative party’s manifesto pledge to make under-18s go back to pleasuring themselves with the aid of romance novels and snapshots of Jayne Mansfield, like they did in the old days. Critics were quick to point out that the majority of porn sites are free, and located outside of the UK, meaning that any amount of British legislation or payment blocking would be unlikely to have much of an impact. It seems as if the architects of the plan hadn’t really thought it through, but then governments have rarely been in sync with contemporary sexual mores.So, imagine how things were 50 years ago. A new documentary tells the story of Peter De Rome, the late British film-maker who served in the RAF during the second world war, worked as a publicist on The Third Man, campaigned for civil rights in the American south, and then became the Grandfather Of Gay Porn, as the film’s title enthusiastically dubs him. De Rome’s films were unpopular with the authorities in the 60s and 70s, but they struck a chord with audiences by documenting gay sexuality with unashamed vigour.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Fire Island KidsLater, De Rome was embraced by the establishment that once shunned him, with several of his films inducted into the BFI’s national archive, and today critical consensus classifies his work as something more than pornography. As one of the film’s interviewees puts it: “Porn was about getting the viewer aroused and getting him off, whereas Peter was so much more ambitious than that.” Likewise, when British censors agreed to certify a compilation of De Rome’s work in 2010, they noted the “artistic, cultural and historical merit” that made the film “distinguishable from a sex work”.De Rome, on the other hand, made no bones about the nature of his oeuvre, openly identifying himself as a pornographer. Indeed, his regular practice of filming men on the streets of New York before taking them back to his apartment for sex has its echoes in contemporary porn formats. In one of Grandfather Of Gay Porn’s most interesting scenes, we observe the shooting of a modern-day porn film that would undoubtedly fall foul of British censors; not, perhaps, because it’s any different to De Rome’s work but because it lacks the artistic credibility of having been shot half a century ago on 8mm film.In struggling to explain the difference between art and porn, De Rome once suggested that “pornography is to eroticism as vulgarity is to wit, or to put it another way, eroticism is to arousal as pornography is to performance. Arousal is to expectation as performance is to completion. Expectation is to infinity as completion is to limitation.” Unless you can make sense of all that, maybe we should just agree it’s a matter of taste.Grandfather Of Gay Porn is released on 14 March