There’s a touching scene in Jacques Audiard’s film Dheepan in which Yalini tells her husband Dheepan that the reason he doesn’t find French jokes funny isn’t because French jokes aren’t funny or that he doesn’t understand the language, but because he has no sense of humour in any language. The scene is terrific because it marks a moment of understanding between the two characters, briskly paints the differences between them, and riffs on the theme of language, which sets them so at odds with their surroundings. Yalini isn’t really Dheepan’s wife: they pretended to be married in order to escape Sri Lanka for the Parisian suburb they now find themselves in, with an equally unrelated girl, Illayaal, pretending to be their nine-year-old daughter.Dheepan review – a crime drama packed with epiphanic grandeur The problem with the film this scene appears in — a sort of cross between La Haine and We’re the Millers, then — is that Jacques Audiard has no sense of humour either, in any language. He isn’t funny in Tamil (Dheepan), French (The Beat That My Heart Skipped), Arabic or Corsican (A Prophet) or even sign language (Read My Lips). Rust and Bone is inadvertently hilarious, as anyone who’s had a glass of wine and then watched Marion Cotillard lose her legs in an unfortunate orca-based incident will know, but in general Audiard’s lack of laughs makes Nuri Bilge Ceylan look like Melissa McCarthy.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a trailer for Dheepan (English subtitles)The reason Audiard isn’t funny is that all of his films are about outcasts trying to make it in a hostile world. Language is a useful shorthand for this sort of situation, since not speaking the dominant tongue immediately casts you on to the margins of society. But in Dheepan the treatment of language shows up the limits of Audiard’s process. In early scenes the family are shown around their new neighbourhood, and Dheepan is told how to do his new job as caretaker of the estate: Yalini and Dheepan constantly ask Illaayal to translate for them, as they do not understand. This is plausible, because children pick up language quicker than adults. But how long have they been in France? This is unclear – and it is equally unclear by the end of the film, when everyone’s language has improved to the extent that they are at least able to further the plot. In one scene Yalini struggles to communicate with a local crime baron, Brahim – but 10 minutes later (perhaps months later in the film’s timeline, who knows?) is perfectly able to scream at some of his heavies. This rings untrue. Jane Birkin, for instance, has lived in France for 50 years and still can’t speak French properly. Audiard’s characters speak French when it suits him, because they aren’t anchored in reality. He isn’t actually interested in adaptation, or processes of integration – language is a mere tool to reiterate his dark view of a world in which no one understands each other.Another aspect of Dheepan in which Audiard is careful not to let facts or verisimilitude get in the way of a punchy story, is his depiction of violence in a fractured community. The film tells how Dheepan and Yalini are reluctantly caught up in gang warfare when a standoff between two local factions turns murderous and three people are shot dead. It would be hard enough being a political refugee in a foreign country without being caught up in a murderous turf war, but Audiard likes to press home his point. The gun death figures at GunPolicy.org covering France for 2012 — the most recent statistics I found — show that there were 140 gun homicides in France that year. Dig a little deeper and you find that there were no handgun-related deaths that year, 12 long-gun deaths (rifle, shotgun or other large gun – which, considering that rifles are licensed to rural hunters in France, makes sense), and 128 “by other & unspecified firearm discharge (includes airguns, BB guns and flare guns)”. Audiard’s handgun shooting (1) and machinegun shootings (2), apparently in the space of 24 hours, would seem to register rather higher than the national average. Indeed, bemused inhabitants of the estate at La Coudraie, where Audiard filmed Dheepan, told Les Inrocks that there hadn’t been a single gunshot there in 20 years.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Telling stories … Dheepan Photograph: AlamyJacques Audiard: ‘I wanted to give migrants a name, a shape… a violence of their own’ This matters, because Audiard is careful to place his film in an authentic and recognisable world, but then depicts his Parisian suburb as a war zone in order to heighten the drama of his film. Parts of this world are rendered vividly and honestly— such as in the way Dheepan and Yalini do not understand how names are ordered in Europe, or the seemingly nonsensical songs that Illaayal hears her classmates singing in the playground — which makes this portrayal of violence in the already highly stigmatised ghettoes of Paris all the more callous. Audiard’s film won the Palme d’Or 10 years after the French riots of 2005 caused the then interior minister Nicolas Sarkozy to describe rioting inhabitants of France’s immigrant banlieues as “racaille” (thugs, or hoodlums) and say they should be industrially cleaned out. Dheepan also calls local residents thugs, in a scene where he and Yalini are panicking about the rise of violence around them, leading Yalini to say that the situation is as bad as war in Sri Lanka. Dheepan says that it’s different. “How?”, Yalini cries. Her question goes unanswered, but it might be worth remembering that in the last year of civil war in Sri Lanka an estimated 15,565 people were killed.A further analogy between French suburbs and Sri Lanka occurs when Dheepan watches a BBC report on the ongoing war in his homeland which highlights the difficulty of entering the territory to report on events. Officials — police units, council representatives, social workers — are also nowhere to be seen in Le Pré Saint-Gervais, the project where Dheepan is set. The impression given is of a lawless universe left entirely to its own murderous devices. Why is Audiard so keen to draw parallels between a gang conflict and open warfare? This process robs his film of the sensitivity it shows in a handful of scenes where the family’s arrival in a new and intimidating world is depicted with humanity. Audiard supposes himself to be on the side of outsiders, in the schematic set-up he lays out, but the irony of his film is that everyone in in it is an outsider.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Questions remain … Vincent Rottiers as Brahim Photograph: AlamyFurther questions remain. I’d have liked to find out more about the local kingpin Brahim, who, as played by Vincent Rottiers, is certainly the only white person called Brahim that I’ve ever heard of. And the absurd way the film consistently paints Britain as an idyll whence to escape from France’s barbary may occasion a bitter laugh from residents of Lewisham’s Woodpecker estate. At the start of the film, a twisted irony is derived from the fact that the dilapidated estate the family are heading to is called Le Pré (or “the field”). A similar sick joke might be made about refugees expecting to find a verdant forest anywhere near London’s Wood Green. But the finale of Dheepan finds our hero, having apparently escaped the nightmarish slaughter on the streets of France, driving a black cab en route to a family dinner on the lawn in a leafy English suburb. Why not go the whole hog and have Dheepan retrain as a friendly postman? Why not, if you’re going to enter the realm of fantasy, abandon the idea of England altogether, and have him be a gondoliere in Venice, bringing home some parmesan to the wife and kids? The mendaciousness of this coda is fairly breathtaking, on the back of the 10 minutes of slaughter that preceded it. True, Yalini has always said she had a cousin in England, who may have helped the family integrate, but in that case why would they not have headed straight to England, rather than risk certain death on the harum-scarum streets of France?Dheepan’s Antonythasan Jesuthasan: from Tamil Tiger to star of a Palme d’Or winner Audiard’s film is ultimately irresponsible and politically dangerous. The danger, as I see it, is that its many formal achievements – including its lean storytelling, exceptional performances (Audiard is among the finest directors of actors now working), and vibrant, often stunningly beautiful images – could blind a viewer to its demagoguery. Audiard uses genre – most notably, the revenge drama, but he also draws on westerns, with his story of a grizzled central figure preparing to make one last stand to protect his territory and loved ones – to lift his story, for a while, out of the social-realist trappings he himself has so painstakingly detailed. This handily means that anyone decrying the film’s moral void can be countered with the claim that the violence represented here is highly stylised and therefore does not carry a political charge so much as an artistic dimension. But you can’t have your cake and eat it, and if we are to see murder shown on screen, it seems only reasonable to ask that it not burden the underprivileged with the stigma of lawlessness. 