Tate Modern, London Fiona Shaw Can it be 17 years since that building burst back into new life and changed the way we thought about art and London? As I remember, it had been gloomy on the South Bank until then. We in the National Theatre, up-river neighbours, had been experimenting with how to find alternative spaces to hear and see theatre differently. We felt the need to get away from specially built institutions that made the audience too comfortable and the work seem luxurious rather than stimulating.Then Tate Modern opened. Here was everything we had hoped to make – a place where people could enter the drama at the door, heading down the slope inside to an inconceivably long, wide room, the Turbine Hall. We were confronted that first time by Maman, Louise Bourgeois’s gargantuan spider, guarding her eggs. She seemed to devour the viewer as we crept round her legs, but also displayed vulnerability and terror.Tiny geology centre vies with Tate Modern to be museum of the year Something about the gallery, too, was imbued with those qualities. At that time, it was new, vulnerable, bigger than the people who ran it and had conceived of it. Daringly, it refused to be a “normal gallery” and we immediately wanted it to be a theatre.It quickly became a people’s palace. The children saw to that: running, shouting and rolling down that slope. It has become a place for the secular Sunday ritual of families gliding up and down the escalators and getting drawn in by the work (and by the bookshop). Spectacular exhibitions followed. We tried to get used to it but it managed to keep us on our toes: the giant sun; Tacita Dean’s paean to the end of Kodak film with her celluloid pillar; Rauschenberg; the early Georgia O’Keefe. I still have as my screensaver a picture of my little nephew posing as a snail in front of Matisse’s huge cut-outs, colour everywhere.The gallery dares to embrace its own hugeness and now has a sister building, Switch House, which offers live performance and panoramic views. Looking out from it, after seeing the art, affects the way you see the world – even St Paul’s Cathedral looks new.I recently overheard one woman saying to another as they left the gallery: “I could do that at home – I do like the Rothko though.” Well they can, and I hope they do. As Bourgeois said: “Art is a guarantee of sanity.” Indeed. And we are lucky to have it so freely available in these mad times.The National Heritage Centre for Horseracing and Sporting Art, Newmarket Rory Bremner Based in Charles II’s sporting palace and stables, in the middle of Britain’s capital of horseracing, Newmarket, the National Heritage Centre is really three museums in one. There is a museum of horseracing, galleries of sporting art and a flagship home for the Retraining of Racehorses charity.For a while I owned one and one-eighth racehorses and would regularly travel round the country to various tracks, until it all became too expensive and silly. But I still love the sport, and for years the great commentator Peter O’Sullevan would call to ask me to do a fundraising event for the museum. He was almost as enthusiastic about this as he was for a race, and it was wonderful just to hear that distinctive voice in full flight.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gallops and grooms … National Horseracing Museum, Newmarket. Photograph: Marc Atkins/Art Fund 2017Today his hat and binoculars are in the museum, which is a lovely personal touch, and outside there is also the Peter O’Sullevan arena where there are demonstrations of how racehorses are retrained after they have retired from a life on the track. The art gallery houses some of the most famous horse paintings by the likes of Stubbs and Munnings as well as contemporary work by Peter Blake and Mark Wallinger. The integrated complex was opened by the Queen in 2016, and bristles with state-of-the-art technical facilities.Alongside historical exhibits in the main horseracing museum, there are behind-the-scenes looks at contemporary activities such as veterinary science. I particularly like the working model of a racehorse that displays its anatomy and shows how it moves. There is also the skeleton of one of the most amusingly named horses in racing history. In the late 18th century an owner instructed a lad to write the name of his horse, Potato, on a stable door. Whether out of facetiousness or ignorance the lad wrote “Pot” followed by eight “o”s. But Potoooooooo stuck, and although when Lord Grosvenor bought him he was operating under the name “Pot-8-Os”, he still went on to be a great racehorse and then stallion.Horse racing has always been a socially mixed sport for all, engendering equal enthusiasm all the way through from the working classes to the toffs and royalty. It is still the second most popular British spectator sport after football, and more than 330,000 people every year visit the racing at Newmarket, where around 2,500 horses are trained. Everywhere you go in the town there are gallops and jockeys and grooms and a palpable love of horses. So it is now entirely fitting that at its heart is this wonderful museum.John Soane’s Museum, London Hans Ulrich ObristThere are many museums and memorials devoted to a single artist or architect, built to preserve or reconstruct their living conditions, but it is very rare that one encounters a gesamtkunstwerk, a total work of art, actually conceived by the architect or artist during their lifetime. That is what we have with Sir John Soane’s Museum.We see it as he saw it, this is the museum as he composed it. Before he died in 1837, Soane established the house as a museum. He also negotiated an act of parliament so that it would be preserved for eternity. Alongside his own models and drawings, there are antique fragments, paintings from artists such as Hogarth and Canaletto, and architectural drawings that inspired him by Piranesi. I was introduced to the museum by the artist Cerith Wyn Evans in 1998, and in 2000 I made a show there that entailed living, on and off, in a guest room in the museum for a year. I liked that it is a public space with lots of visitors, but it still feels very intimate.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Surprising perspectives … Sir John Soane’s Museum. Photograph: Marc Atkins/Art Fund 2017While it is difficult to isolate any individual favourite objects – they are all so interconnected – I have always been fascinated by the picture room, Soane’s own cleverly designed gallery of moveable walls that make for three times as much display space as would normally be possible. It is such a flexible mode of hanging space that it allows the paintings to be viewed from different angles and was very ahead of its time.The museum embraces complexity and flexibility. Visitors can choose their own routes as there is no prescribed path: you can turn right or left, go up or down. And Soane achieved his effects not only through objects and ornamentation, but also through space, colour and light. Experiencing the different light conditions over the course of a day is magical: direct light, indirect light, reflected light, broken light, dispersed light. Equally the museum is full of surprising perspectives. It feels as if you could make an almost infinite number of visits because it is always changing according to the light and the path you take. This is a place where it is never possible to grasp the whole thing, you can always return and find something new.Hepworth, Wakefield Martin Parr I hadn’t been to the Hepworth gallery until about three or four years ago, but as soon as I walked in I thought, “Wow, this is a fantastic space.” It is beautifully designed and functions very well.I had an exhibition of photographs there in 2016 called The Rhubarb Triangle and Other Stories, which we thought up together. It featured photographs I had taken around the “rhubarb triangle” – between Wakefield, Morley and Rothwell in West Yorkshire – and a bigger show of my other, more international, work. I liked the way we were able to combine local interest with a broader perspective. We had a VIP opening and all the rhubarb farmers and their friends came along.The gallery has also held exhibitions of work by Stanley Spencer and Anthea Hamilton, and launched a new £30,000 art prize to celebrate the breadth of contemporary sculpture being produced in the UK (won by Helen Marten).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Beautiful design … Hepworth Wakefield. Photograph: Marc Atkins/Art Fund 2017You can make gallery spaces work in many different contexts and with different criteria, so I’d just as happily do a show in a disused warehouse as in a beautiful gallery. But the Hepworth is a terrific place to work in because it has white space and fine-art elegance, and lots of it.You need the combination of the space and the people, however, and the Hepworth has both a great audience and a supportive group of professionals who work there. It’s a real pleasure to go through the process of having an exhibition there. Simon Wallis, who runs it, is a big advocate of photography, and this is not at all to be taken for granted in the major art galleries in the UK. There are people who the art gallery world love, and there are people outside of that who are often ignored, but the Hepworth looks after you, and has a clear idea of what’s going on.It deserves the title of Museum of the Year because it combines all the best attributes: a fine space with an engaging programme.Lapworth Museum of Geology, BirminghamAlice Roberts I quickly fell in love with this museum when I started working at Birmingham University five years ago. Natural history, thinking about how the diversity of life on Earth evolved over vast stretches of time, is so inspiring. The science stories are brilliant but it is important to see the objects themselves – and at the new museum we have a lot of objects on show.Back then, it was a jewel of a museum, but very inward facing. It had incredible promise, and a wonderful geological collection dating back to 1880 when Mason College – the forerunner of Birmingham University – was established. Charles Lapworth was its first professor of geology, and invented an entirely new geological period, the Ordovician, named after a Celtic tribe, because the rocks he was studying were from around Wales. He was a pioneer and a collector, but also interested in what a museum can do for a community.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A walk through time … the Evolution of Life Gallery at the Lapworth Museum of Geology, Birmingham. Photograph courtesy of Lee Allen.Recently we had a big redevelopment, thanks to a Heritage Lottery Fund grant. The museum is still research focused, but has thrown its doors open to the public. The visitor numbers have doubled over the last year, and we have doubled in size. As well as the main gallery, the museum has two new galleries – one dedicated to earth science, the other to minerals – and an education room with a learning officer. The new design has captured the charm of the old building and revealed some of its skeleton – such as the massive steel beams that hold up the ceiling, and the almost floor-to-ceiling original windows. The exhibition takes you through 3.5bn years of evolution of life on the planet. It’s a walk through time.Object lessons at the Hepworth Wakefield: the importance of sculpture There is also a cabinet of curiosities for children, that stands about a metre high and features, among weird and wonderful objects, a monkey skeleton. I really like museums that recognise the fact that not everybody visiting them is an adult, that they are catering to smaller people, too.This is the most important natural history collection, after the national museums. It is the only natural history and geology museum in the West Midlands. Its redevelopment has transformed it from something that was for the university into something that is for the community. And the community are responding and are coming in their droves.• The Art Fund museum of the year 2017 will be announced on 5 July at the British Museum, London