2016 taught us that very little is predictable. But there are a few people worth watching next year, in the likely chance that they’ll have a major role in shaping 2017. Here are the people to keep your eye on, in politics, the arts, media, and sports.Keith Ellison      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Keith Ellison is hoping to chair the Democratic National Committee. Photograph: Richard Tsong-Taatarii/APEllison is one of the new hopes for the Democratic party – or at least for its progressive wing. A former community organizer who serves as a congressman for Minnesota, Ellison has been backed by Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren to be the next chair of the Democratic National Committee. Although one of only two Muslims in Congress, Ellison has pledged to resign his seat in Congress if elected as DNC chair. As party chair he would attempt to hew the Democratic party to the left, focusing on grassroots organizing to “build the party from the bottom up”. He would work towards Sanders-esque proposals on taxing the wealthy and corporations, and on immigration reform, in the hope of tempting back Democratic voters in the 2018 mid-term elections.The DNC will meet over the weekend of February 24-26 to vote for their choice. Ellison is not a shoo-in, however; other names mentioned for the chair include Labor secretary Tom Perez, seen as a more moderate choice, and South Carolina Democratic party chairman Jaime Harrison.Steve Bannon      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Steve Bannon has the ear of the next president. Photograph: Evan Vucci/APThe former executive chairman of unofficial Trump fan club Breitbart News will spend 2017 firmly embedded in the White House and is one of the few people who has the ear of the president-elect. Bannon – who is currently being portrayed as the grim reaper on Saturday Night Live – will serve as Trump’s chief strategist and senior counselor, which is a made-up position but one likely to give him significant power.During the presidential campaign Bannon was said to be the one advisor who could talk forcefully to Trump – a rare position and one that means he may be able to hold Trump to some of the right-wing, populist promises that won him the election.Megyn Kelly      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Megyn Kelly has reportedly been offered $20m a year to stay at Fox News. Photograph: Victoria Will/APTrump’s antagoniser-in-chief ended 2016 by releasing a book, Settle for More, for which she was paid up to $10m, and she is likely to have an even more lucrative 2017.Her contract with Fox News expires in July, and she has reportedly been offered $20m a year to stay. Kelly is also apparently being pursued by ABC, NBC and CNN, although they might not offer her quite as much money.Fox News is one of the few broadcasters, newspapers and news websites that Donald Trump does not actively criticize, so the right-wing channel is likely to be his first port of call for interviews.That means that Kelly – despite not being Trump’s favourite Fox News journalist (see: the Republican primary debates) – would have a rare opportunity to hold the president to account. If she decides to stay. Kamala Harris      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kamala Harris is the first Indian woman and the second black woman to be elected to the US Senate. Photograph: Andrew Toth/Getty ImagesCalifornia’s senator-elect hasn’t taken office yet, but she is already being touted as a potential Democratic presidential candidate in 2020. Harris, whose mother is Indian American and father is Jamaican, is the first Indian woman and second black woman to be elected to the Senate. She will serve on the homeland security and governmental affairs committee and the select committee on intelligence, which could provide important checks on Donald Trump. Seen as a progressive, Harris was endorsed by the outgoing senator for California, Barbara Boxer, and Massachusetts senator Elizabeth Warren in her Senate run. She hasn’t commented on the presidential speculation. But Barack Obama was another Democrat who endorsed Harris in 2016 – and running for president as a first term senator seemed to work out for him.Dallas Cowboys      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dallas Cowboys running back Ezekiel Elliott (21) celebrates with teammates after scoring a touchdown. Photograph: Kevin Jairaj/USA Today SportsThe Dallas Cowboys have only lost two games so far and have looked to be one of the better teams in the NFL all season.They’ve been propelled towards that record by two rookies: the quarterback, Dak Prescott, and running back, Ezekiel Elliott.Prescott, 23, was only the 135th pick in the draft, and few would have expected him to get much game time. But after the Cowboys’ veteran quarterback Tony Romo broke a vertebrae in pre-season Prescott became first choice, and promptly broke Tom Brady’s record for most consecutive passes thrown without an interception at the beginning of a career.His performances throughout the season have left some NFL commentators wondering if he might be the best rookie quarterback of all time. Meanwhile Elliot, 21, broke the Cowboys’ 39-year-old rookie record for rushing yards this season and has a chance to become the most successful rookie running back in NFL history. If Prescott and Elliott can keep up their form in the playoffs then the Cowboys could win their first Super Bowl since 1995. Elaine Welteroth       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Elaine Welteroth was the youngest Condé Nast editor-in-chief in history. Photograph: Lewis/Starpix/REX/ShutterstockThis year was huge for Elaine Welteroth, who in May was appointed editor-in-chief of Teen Vogue at just 29. That made her the youngest Condé Nast editor-in-chief in history, and only the second African American to hold such a job.Immediately, Welteroth, along with digital editorial director Phillip Pacardi, upped the magazine’s political and social issues coverage, focusing on the election, LGBT, race and feminist issues. Teen Vogue had more females of color as cover stars than any other fashion magazine this year. And Welteroth has been the face of it all, regularly appearing on panels, in interviews or even as herself on the show Black-ish. Over 77,000 people follow her jet-setting life on Instagram. After publishing around a dozen stories a day in 2015, her team now publishes 50 to 70 daily. But Welteroth will face the challenges of a tough media business in 2017. Last month Condé Nast announced the magazine is getting cut back from a monthly to a quarterly, starting in Spring 2017, with a more collectible print edition and a digital focus. Issa Rae      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Issa Rae created one of 2016’s most critically successful TV shows. Photograph: Pari Dukovic/HBOActress, writer and producer Issa Rae created Insecure, one of 2016’s most praised TV shows. Insecure began airing on HBO in October, putting black women and black female friendships front and center, and mixing microaggressions from working in an all-white work place with conversational Drake lyrics.The show has other big names on board: Larry Wilmore is an executive producer, Solange is a music consultant, Melina Matsoukas (director of Beyonce’s Formation) is a director and executive producer.Rae, 31, first shot to fame as a YouTube star, with her 2011 web series Misadventures of an Awkward Black Girl. Her production company, which also includes ColorCreative.TV, offers opportunities specifically for women and minority writers. In 2017, she’s up for a Golden Globe for best actress in a comedy, will be writing and shooting season two of Insecure, and will serve as executive producer on a new comedy show by her production company called Minimum Wage, the story of five employees at a fast food restaurant in LA’s Koreatown.Lorde      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lorde is finishing her second album. Photograph: Kevin Winter/Getty Images for CoachellaIt’s been a couple of quiet years for the New Zealander who landed a US number one hit in 2013 when she was just 16 with Royals. Lorde (real name Ella Yelich-O’Connor) won a stack of awards, including two Grammys and became part of Taylor Swift’s squad, but has released no new music since 2014.Now she’s 20 and is just finishing off her sophomore album. “The party is about to start. I am about to show you the new world,” wrote Lorde on Facebook about the new album, explaining that was all about her growing up and learning how to be an adult. Jack Antonoff of Bleachers fame is helping produce it. This month Antonoff and Lorde sung a cover of Robyn’s Hang with Me for a Christmas fundraiser for the LGBT charity The Ally Coalition, in New York, a reminder of Lorde’s strong, ethereal pipes. The new album is expected spring 2017.This article was amended on 3 January 2017. A previous version incorrectly stated Kamala Harris was the first black woman elected to the US Senate; she was the second, after Carol Moseley Braun.