Michael Grant has written another alternate history of the second world war, to be added to the teetering piles of such books that already exist. Luckily, it’s not just the stale ‘what if the Nazis won’ reworking, but something that is fresh, new and exciting.It’s a simple premise – American women are too allowed to enlist and be drafted, after a 1940 court ruling – but Grant creates a beautiful and compelling read, not just about the war, but about the power of friendship.Rio Richlin, Frangie Marr and Rainy Schultermann all have their own reasons for enlisting. Rio is fighting for her dead sister. Rainy wants to kill Germans. Frangie simply needs the money. They are a diverse cast, but once in the army they share a single purpose: to help win the war.Of course there is no way to win the war if their own side won’t let them fight, and sexism in the front lines is a major theme in the book. But Grant isn’t trying to write a feminist manifesto in the guise of a war story, instead preferring to simply tell a story about three girls very much like you and me, letting the reader draw their own conclusions. He doesn’t confine his probing prose in any way, with racism and anti-Semitism being equally well covered by his lovable characters. ‘The message is clear: when confronted with situations where death is almost inevitable, everyone is the same, regardless of race, gender or religion.’ Such a book could easily become heavy and boring, yet Grant’s familiar skill in creating exciting and twisting writings shows in a fantastically believable and relatable story. I think the proof of the brilliance was that I kept forgetting I was reading an alternative history, with everything in the book seeming as if it could actually have happened.The book starts off pretty slowly, but it is in no way boring. I felt like I knew the characters and could empathise with their struggles properly, rather than just being dumped-in the deep end and expected to care. They all had unique personalities, but my favourite was Rio, the spunkiest of the three! I found the bravery and humanity she and the others showed throughout the book truly inspiring. It was great to see girls who are strong and clever in their own right, growing in so many ways throughout the story.When I first saw it, I wasn’t sure that Michael Grant could really write in such a different genre to books like Gone – trying to write a war story that is ‘all guns blazing’, without any humanity or thoughtfulness, would be completely wrong; a disaster for me. Luckily I had a pleasant surprise in a book that was comparable to some of my favourites, like Code Name Verity.How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? I can’t find anything negative to say about this book – I loved the characters, the prose, the plot and the concept. I am so glad that this is going to be a series (Soldier Girl) so that I can read more about my three favourite characters!Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!