On Wednesday evening, when Ireland’s underdogs were defeating Italy in Euro 2016, their compatriot Lisa McInerney was collecting the £10,000 Desmond Elliott prize for debut fiction, her second win in a fortnight – The Glorious Heresies was also awarded the £30,000 Baileys prize earlier in the June awards season.Lisa McInerney's 'astounding' debut novel wins Desmond Elliott prize “I feel like Man United in the mid-90s!” McInerney said to the Guardian of her “wonderful and bizarre” dual triumph. “I remember, just before all this madness started, reading about Eimear McBride, and she did the double, she got the Desmond Elliott prize and she got the Baileys prize [for A Girl Is a Half-formed Thing]. Two years ago she did, and I thought ‘wouldn’t that be nice?’ So here it is, a case of the Irish punching above their weight again. It’s a lovely thing.”Talk of a post-Celtic Tiger Irish literary boom also backed up by British awards claimed in recent years by Donal Ryan, Colin Barrett and Kevin Barry, had received more confirmation two days earlier when Dublin-born Sarah Crossan won the Carnegie medal, the UK’s most prestigious children’s books prize (so prestigious that it can get away with not giving prize money). Like McInerney – who was praised by Iain Pears, chair of the Desmond Elliott judges, for a literary “ambition” that made her “entirely unconcerned about what she should be writing” and“willing to risk all to produce what she wanted to say” – Crossan is unafraid of defying conventional expectations: her One is a novel in verse about conjoined twins Grace and Tippi.Sarah Crossan wins the Carnegie medal with verse novel One On Tuesday, between Crossan and McInerney’s victories, further laurels were won by young authors or those new to major success in the Authors’ awards, an annual multiple giveaway (this time totalling £86,000) resembling a remarkably flush school prize‑giving or a genteel version of a TV game show. In fiction, the £10,000 top Betty Trask award for under-35 first-timers went to Alex Christofi’s Glass, with £5,000 apiece going to Irenosen Okojie, Natasha Pulley and Lucy Wood. Andrew McMillan, winner of the Guardian first book award for Physical, was among a group of poets under 30 picking up Eric Gregory awards, also including Dom Bury, Sam Buchan-Watts, Jen Campbell and Alex MacDonald.However, more familiar names have not entirely missed out in this hectic period of gong giving, which neatly falls between less cerebral contests (the Derby and Goodwood, the Chelsea Flower Show and Wimbledon). Akhil Sharma took the €100,000 (£78,000) Dublin international literary award for Family Life (all of 15 months, curiously, after receiving the Folio prize for the same book). Chris Riddell, the children’s laureate, won the Kate Greenaway medal - the Carnegie’s sister medal for illustrators - for the third time, for The Sleeper and the Spindle. The Book of Memory by Petina Gappah, another former Guardian first book winner, was given the eccentric £4,000 McKitterick prize for 40-plus debutants in the Authors’ Awards.Most famous of all, Margaret Atwood was named last week as the latest recipient (only the second female one, after Carol Ann Duffy) of the PEN Pinter prize, given to “outstanding” writers who cast an “unflinching, unswerving” gaze on the world. An unusually combative citation, by judges’ chair Maureen Freely, risked riling literary colleagues when it hailed her as “a shining exception” in a profession “dominated by careerists who are content to tend their own gardens”.