This evening British viewers get to see the finale of Big Little Lies, the hit HBO miniseries about the secret lives of four women in the beautiful town of Privilege-on-Sea, AKA Monterey, California. I’ve been diligently avoiding spoilers since it aired in the US so I have no idea how the central murder mystery will be resolved, but I can guarantee that the choice of music will be crucial.It’s unusual for a TV series to spawn a soundtrack album or move songs up the charts (Girls being an impressive exception) but then Jean-Marc Vallée is an unusual director. Instead of commissioning a score, he uses existing songs to create mood, drive narrative and reveal character. Veteran music supervisor Sue Jacobs, who previously worked with Vallée on his movies Wild and Demolition, recently told Vulture: “It’s very unnerving for people. Some executives are like, ‘you gotta get a composer’. But he likes working this way and I love working this way, too.” Before he starts shooting, Vallée decides which characters will inform the music and shares playlists with his team. At the end of the shoot, he burns CDs of all the songs he’s used and gives them to the cast and crew. At the Big Little Lies wrap party, the four lead actresses serenaded him with Fleetwood Mac’s Dreams. “I guess I’m a frustrated DJ who’s making films,” Vallée told Variety.Music in movies or TV shows falls into two categories. Diegetic music exists in the world of the characters and can be heard by them. Non-diegetic music is an authorial choice imposed on the action from above. So, for example, the hapless mobsters in Goodfellas aren’t actually listening to Layla as they get simultaneously whacked (non-diegetic) but Mr Blond in Reservoir Dogs is really dancing to Stuck in the Middle With You while he tortures a police officer (diegetic).The mothers grim: why Big Little Lies is the bleakest of fairytales At its best, diegetic music is viscerally powerful because it illustrates the role of music in the characters’ lives. The standout sequence in the movie Girlhood shows the teenage protagonists partying to Rihanna’s Diamonds, turning a rather generic pop song into a thrilling vehicle for bonding and liberation. Music-loving directors are prone to forcing their own tastes on to their characters – people in Tarantino or Wes Anderson movies rarely diverge from the directors’ record collections – but Vallée gives each character their own distinct relationship with music. Celeste (Nicole Kidman) dons her earbuds to wallow in the luxuriant pain of Irma Thomas’s Straight from the Heart. Jane (Shailene Woodley) uses Death in Vegas and the Flaming Lips to purge traumatic memories while driving or running along the beach. Madeline (Reese Witherspoon) is cheerfully clueless. When she hears Sade at a tense family lunch, she asks if it’s Adele (Of course, the zen, bohemian Bonnie, played by Zoë Kravitz, is a Sade fan). The characters dance, sing, discuss and escape into music – it’s woven into the fabric of their lives – so the viewer hears every song filtered through their reactions. Nothing is merely background noise.In a show in which first-graders are more well-adjusted than any of the adults, the real tastemakers are Madeline’s daughter Chloe (Darby Camp) and Jane’s son Ziggy (Iain Armitage). Some viewers have found their tastes suspiciously advanced. I could argue that Ziggy – named after Ziggy Stardust – is bonding with his musically clued-up mum and that Chloe may have got some tips from her thwarted hipster dad Ed (Adam Scott), but that requires some suspension of disbelief. Music here is the unspoken language of emotional truth – we only realise how damaged Jane is when she plays Martha Wainwright’s Bloody Mother Fucking Asshole at the end of episode one – so the most emotionally fluent characters have the best taste. “We need music in our lives to love, to make up, and Chloe knows that,” Vallée explained to Entertainment Weekly. “She makes playlists for people. And she’s committed and she contaminates everyone around her.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Chloe’s the kind of kid who picks PJ Harvey’s trip-hop deep cut The Wind on the school run. Mostly she digs modern soul singers like Leon Bridges and Alabama Shakes, whose retro aesthetic chimes with the show’s magnificent theme tune, Michael Kiwanuka’s Cold Little Heart. Like the glorious cinematography, this strand of the soundtrack underlines the theme of the show: beautiful surfaces with turbulent undercurrents. Chloe has a child’s faith in the power of a song to unite and heal; Bridges’ River, which shot up the R&B charts thanks to Big Little Lies, is her gift to her repressed mother. “I think that’s why people relate to it,” Jacobs told Decider. “I think it’s actually because people are feeling that [song] as Reese.”Ziggy, meanwhile, finds his music online, which explains some of his more arresting choices. His enjoyment of Grace Slick’s isolated vocal track from Jefferson Airplane’s White Rabbit is credible because that track recently circulated on social media. Obscure offcuts aren’t just for crate diggers anymore.When Vallée and Jacobs’ choices are more obvious, they have the ring of truth. It makes perfect sense that the musically basic Madeline would choose Dreams for a Californian road trip (you imagine that Rumours is one of about six CDs she owns), and that Celeste’s brutally controlling husband Perry (Alexander Skarsgård) would pick Neil Young’s Harvest Moon when he’s being performatively romantic. Some songs operate on two levels, illustrating the characters’ inner and outer lives at the same time. For Ziggy, Papa Was a Rolling Stone is a fun song he comes to love while learning a Temptations dance routine from YouTube. For Jane, it’s a coded message: “Mama, I’m depending on you to tell me the truth.” For the viewer, it becomes the ominous heartbeat of the penultimate episode. As a purely directorial choice it would be far too on-the-nose but it’s embedded in Ziggy’s reality. The song has both a diegetic and non-diegetic life.What impresses me most about Vallée is that he’s clearly a music buff but he’s not obsessed with showing the viewer how cool he is. He and Jacobs did similarly smart work on Wild, in which the songs Reese Witherspoon’s character listens to her on her long, cathartic walk are believable choices even as they reveal more than she realises. For Vallée and Jacobs a song has to do the work of a score while staying true to the characters’ lives. It’s a complicated high-wire act – Jacobs has called the unorthodox scoring process “super hard, really challenging, unbelievably detailed and difficult” – but the pair make it look easy. They capture the way that music fans score their lives with songs whose meanings mutate and proliferate as the context changes. We may be entering a golden age of TV music, from the 80s synthscapes of Stranger Things to the eerie player-piano cover versions on Westworld, but only Big Little Lies reminds us that we’re all the DJs and music supervisors of our own lives.