A new play by David Hare imagining George Osborne having a crisis of confidence in the free market is to be part of a West End season of political satire.Director Max Stafford-Clark announced a summer season of short plays in a project at the Arts Theatre called A View from Islington North.Alongside Hare on Osborne will be Mark Ravenhill on the cost of Britain’s military adventures; Stella Feehily sending up behind-closed-doors political party machinations; Caryl Churchill on the impact of arts sponsorship; and Alistair Beaton with a plot to bring down the Labour leader.Beaton’s play, An Accidental Leader, will not feature Jeremy Corbyn on stage or even mention his name. “But if you don’t know it’s about Corbyn then you’ve been living on Mars for the last year,” said Beaton.It will instead feature characters meeting in a room over a pub plotting the leader’s overthrow – something very likely to have happened in real life, the playwright said. “I just hope they don’t unseat him before we get to the stage.”Beaton is known for his TV satires such as The Trial of Tony Blair in 2007 and A Very Social Secretary in 2005 as well as his 2001 play Feelgood, a satire on New Labour spin doctors directed by Stafford-Clark.“The Corbyn phenomenon fascinates me because we’re living in an age of deep disillusionment with everyday politics. Whether it is Bernie Sanders or Donald Trump or Jeremy Corbyn, there is something new going on and for me this is a chance to explore that whole idea – can you have a leader who is authentic, free of spin? Or is it just a dead end? I hope it is both funny and very serious.”Stafford-Clark said there was a growing hunger for political satire. “Of course it has never gone away, from Beyond the Fringe to Spitting Image to The Thick of It. There is an appetite for work that deflates the pomposity and ambition of politicians, never more so than the present.”His touring theatre company, Out of Joint, had accumulated a number of short plays – by Ravenhill, Churchill and Feehily – written for other purposes. “It occurred to me that we had the beginnings of an evening of political satires,” said Stafford-Clark, who approached Hare and Beaton to write new 20-minute plays. Things fell into place when Billy Bragg agreed to compose a new song for the evening.“Every few years someone pronounces that satire is dead but it never dies. It has its good moments and bad moments but it is always there and conventional politics is so depressing,” he added.“You only have to look at the battle between Cameron and Boris to think this is a battle between two people who don’t believe in anything except power, that is so depressing and there is a hunger out there for material that asks really difficult questions about politics and is prepared to take the piss.”The oldest of the five plays is Ravenhill’s The Mother, first performed at the Royal Court in 2008, but its subject, said Stafford-Clark, still had huge relevance. It centres on a soldier’s mother doing everything she can to avoid hearing the news she dreads.The evening’s name, A View from Islington North (“estate agent speak for Holloway”) is a reflection of it being Corbyn’s political seat but also the home, for more than 20 years, of Out of Joint. “We’re Islington North and proud,” the director said.• A View from Islington North will be at the Arts Theatre from 18 May to 2 July