In a personal sense, grace represents enlightenment within oneself. I find grace within the beauty of art, within the beauty of people, within the beauty of love, within the beauty of moments, within the beauty of human relationships, within the beauty of life, within the beauty of death and within the beauty of colour. My interpretation of grace resides within one’s aesthetic perception. My fascination of colour stems from my synesthesia, a rare neurological phenomenon. I have an idiosyncratic form of synesthesia, which differentiates vastly in experiential form. The dominance lays within my ability to ‘hear’ colour, which is known as chromesthesia or sound ­to­ colour synesthesia. As a child, I became transfixed by iridescent moments, crystallised oceans and polychrome skies. My eyes simply could not resist the existential beauty posed by graceful luminosity. My visual sensibilities tend to form an emotionality that is beyond my control, visceral feelings which I can solely express through artistry. Colour is sewn into my being, the existence of colour within oneself is an abundant creation of love, death, beauty, light within darkness. 'Colour is sewn into my being': a portrait of synesthesia by Jack Coulter Grace holds the highest form of beauty. It is the purest, most introspective reflection of true expression. In relation to my artwork, I desire the beautiful exterior of my paintings to be paralleled with an elusively harrowing interior, my intention is to expose the connotation of light within darkness in every sense. Which is precisely the occupational philosophy of grace. I am not speaking of ‘grace’ in a religious sense, as I do not believe in God. I am not a religious person, although my love for art is almost religious. The ‘higher’ power of the word grace sits within every human’s reach, although we feel as if we are incapable of birthing the divine without religious intervention or devotion to faith. Grace has the power to alter our emotional feelings, our tendencies, our inclinations and our emotions. A great example which serves importance in this matter is The Rothko Chapel in Houston. The chapel withholds enticing colour field works by Rothko, which leave the viewer in an intangible state of ‘grace’ which can only be perceived in observance. The pale, yet harsh use of deep colour leaves the viewer in a mesmeric trance, in a spiritual state of self-analysis. I would love to experience the emotional weight of air which exists there. I could not stop crying at Jackson Pollock’s ‘Blind Spots’ exhibition. The resulting weight of subconscious melancholy truly left me in a pensive, dreamlike state. Ambient fuelled atmospheres truly resonate with me.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Broken Obelisk, Rothko Chapel, Houston, TexasCC8K9F Broken Obelisk, Rothko Chapel, Houston, Texas Photograph: Nikreates / Alamy Stock Photo/Alamy Stock PhotoIn certain situations, ‘grace’ as a feeling can reflect or be perceived as a mirage. As a substance, colour schemes can falsify emotion through visual means. For example, when viewing a beautiful spectrum of colours, your natural instinctual feeling would be happiness or serenity. Although if you strip those visual sensations to monochrome, it may portray sadness or depressive nature. How would one feel if falling in love was held within a monochrome moment. The experience would still hold emotionality within psychological aesthetics, however it would lack the romanticism which we all crave. Monochrome visuals are vastly introspective, it allows depth, growth, self-­analysis. I am infatuated by the idealisms held within life’s iridescent chromaticity. My personal visualisations of colour arise within luminous flames of iridescence. Visual perceptions remind us daily that we are alive, it is of utmost gratification that we can simply gaze at the opalescent hue of a sunset or sunrise. Grace is a vital ingredient to the potion of art. Art would cease to be beautiful without grace. Especially in my practice as an abstract expressionist. I find grace within the intricacies of my iridescent vision, the graceful movements held within my synesthesia emanate tetrachromatic hues of colour. My visualisations of colour rhythmically pulsate in harmonious unison, my experiences hold grace in every sense of the word. I find grace within the intimacy of flowing paint falling from a piece of shimmering glass onto canvas. The point in which I am trying to portray is you can find your own sense of grace. It can be found in all forms. Tapping into one’s personal idealisation of ‘grace’ can birth an instinctual personification of truth. As individuals with a basic understanding of consciousness, the ‘higher’ power of the word grace exists within us. Find your grace.How to share your artworkShare an image of your artwork via GuardianWitness, by clicking the blue “contribute” button on this page, or via the Android or iPhone app. If you have any problems, email us at userhelp@theguardian.com.We’ll feature some of our favourite submissions on the Art and Design site. By sending us your pictures you: a) acknowledge that you have created the pictures or have permission to do so; and b) grant us a non-exclusive, worldwide, free licence to publish your pictures as described. Copyright resides with you, and you may reuse your pictures however you wish. Read our full terms and conditions here.Don’t worry if they don’t appear straight away – everything has to be approved before it can be “hung” in our online gallery. Do tell us in the comments if there are any improvements we could make to the series.You can view more of Jack Coulter’s artwork here. 