Sunlight is streaming into an Edinburgh chapel. On speakers spaced throughout this gothic building, people are talking. Sometimes they burst into song. Then the talking starts up again. We’re hearing a choir rehearsal, it seems – but it’s all a bit lackadaisical. Apart from me, the only people here are a couple of invigilators who sit chatting in the middle of the church. That’s totally understandable. I’d be bored too after spending all day with this artwork. The chat simply adds to the futile feeling of it all.Edinburgh art festival review – ugly beauty in the Jekyll and Hyde city The lack of intensity borders on the tragic because this artwork has a serious theme. Olivia Webb’s Voices Project, installed at Trinity Apse as part of this summer’s (mostly excellent) Edinburgh art festival, is an aural commemoration of the 2011 earthquake in Christchurch, New Zealand. Over in the corner, there’s a video documentary that shows how Webb has worked with New Zealand church choirs to explore the idea of community and collective mourning. Yet the result is vague and meandering – not emotional at all, just a lot of recorded conversation. Is this a work of art, or a document of a work of art that happened elsewhere? For me, it’s yet another example of the emptiness and poverty of sound art, a codeword that means: avoid. On the same day in Edinburgh, I didn’t quite manage to dodge Bani Abidi’s Monument to Lost Words in the Old Royal High School. This too has a theoretically powerful emotional burden – it sets to song the words of first world war soldiers and the women they left behind. As music, it is quite lovely, but where’s the art?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A provocative borderland between sound and art … John Cage’s 4’ 33”. Photograph: © 1960 Henmar Press Inc.Let’s get this straight, sound art buffs: of course art can be made with sound. It can be made with anything. The first masterpiece of sound art is Marcel Duchamp’s With Hidden Noise, created exactly a century ago. What you see is a ball of twine between two brass plates. What you are told is that it has an unknown object sealed inside. When the twine is shaken the hidden object moves about and makes a rattling noise. As the title makes clear, this “hidden noise” is crucial to the artwork’s meaning. Duchamp’s disciple John Cage took the Frenchman’s lead, working in the provocative borderland between sound and art. Is Cage’s 4’33”, in which a pianist sits at a piano without playing it, music or performance? And the idea of sound art has even deeper roots in modernism. Arnold Schoenberg’s 1909 musical drama Erwartung is the aural equivalent of Munch’s painting The Scream: an expressionist howl so intense you experience it, somehow, as a solid, appalling fact.To my mind, sculptural solidity is one of the traits of good sound art. Susan Philipsz, who brought new recognition to the form when she won the 2010 Turner prize, excels at shaping space with sound. Her eerie works function like installation art, not music, as they mould and warp the air in a room or open space. While being completely invisible, an interesting piece of sound art can dynamise a space according to where the speakers are placed and how vibrations are set up.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sculptural sound … Susan Philipsz, winner of the 2010 Turner prize. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianSound waves are vibrations transmitted through matter, including your body. By this standard, you could say that a massively loud rock concert that shakes its audience is the ultimate sound art. When I saw Motorhead at Glastonbury last year it was pretty damn sculptural – a wall of noise. My favourite work of sound art is when John Cale drags an amplified chair across the stage in the Velvet Underground’s European Son. Or that’s what it sounds like ...      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lovely music, but where’s the ‘art’? … Bani Abidi’s Memorial to Lost Words.It’s quite a trick to pull off. Sound art, like every other kind of art, is difficult to do well. We’re as saturated with sounds as we are with images. A bit of ambient musak is not art. Yet instead of recognising the rarity and wonder of good art made with sound, the art world too easily leaps on this form as a superficial fashion. You want to play your favourite records for four hours with disco lights? That’s art! Duchamp was a genius. He could put a noise in a ball of string and hey presto, it was art. He made it look easy – well, he made everything look easy – and yet many daft and self-indulgent sound works are only “art” at the most glib level as sadly exposed by the National Gallery’s exhibition Soundscapes last summer, in which only Philipsz rose above the banal. They prove what an act of magic it really is to turn sound into sculpture, the ear into a mind’s eye.Olivia Webb’s Voices Project is at Trinity Apse and Bani Abidi’s Memorial to Lost Words is at Old Royal High School, Edinburgh, until 28 August