It was 1963. John F Kennedy was president of the US, the Beatles had released their first album, and Winifred Hughes of Crewe, then 39, had become the proud owner of an ultra-modern Belling Classic electric oven. At £79 – more than £1,500 in today’s money – the Hughes took out a hire purchase­ plan with the Mersey and North Wales Electricity Board, paying £4 18s every three months, spread over four years. But it turned out to be an amazing bargain. Winifred,­ now 92, used it almost every day since and, she says, “it never let me down”. It had remained in immaculate order for all of its 53 years, cooking meals for her family of five, including a roast dinner every Sunday. “In those days things were built to last,” she says.You could pull the inside casing of the oven out to clean it, which she used to do every Sunday after cooking the roast. The only repair the Belling needed was when a shelf fell on it and cracked one of the rings, which had to be replaced. “We rang the Manweb office in town and they brought a new one out,” she remembers. The timer also stopped working, but that didn’t really matter.”The Belling came with a cookbook, with basic recipes that she still uses. “People don’t believe me, but I’ve never had a takeaway in my life. I keep getting leaflets through the door, but there is nothing that I want.” However, Winifred has made one concession to modern convenience food: “I eventually agreed to try oven chips with my fish, because I got a bit worried about using the chip pan.”Sadly, just last week, the thermostat finally gave up, and Winifred says she is “heartbroken” her beloved Belling is no more. What’s more, the oven was made when measurements were imperial,­ and the new, metric-sized replacement is very slightly smaller than the 21-inch Belling, leaving a gap on one side in her 1960s fitted kitchen.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Winifred Hughes with her beloved Belling cooker, which finally broke down last week, after 53 years’ serviceNot many families would expect their oven to last five decades, but there is widespread anger over how many domestic appliances fail within a few years. A petition to force manufacturers to publish the expected lifespan has gained over 11,000 signatures. It calls on the government to legislate against “planned obsolescence” – where companies­ are accused of deliberately making their products breakable and impossible to repair.Tara Button, who set up the petition for a “simple law to stop the misery of shoddy products” is founder of BuyMeOnce, a website specialising in items that come with lifetime guarantees. She says: “It is incomprehensible, bordering on criminal, that in an age when we talk of creating machines that can fly people to Mars, I can’t find a kettle I would trust to last longer than six years. Manufacturers used to pride themselves­ on making things that lasted. It is the lack of will, not lack of know-how and technical skill, that has caused this rise in throwaway appliances. It is short-sighted environmentally, and it is short-changing consumers who seem to accept that their appliances will break as soon as the one or two-year warranty is over.”Kenneth Watt, director of UK Whitegoods,­ a trade association and spare parts dealer for engineers, has been repairing appliances since the early 1980s. He agrees that products do not last as long as they used to. “White goods built in the 1950s, 60s and 70s would often last 15 years or more, now it is more like six or seven,” he says. “Consumers have demanded cheaper and cheaper products, so the quality has declined. Until the mid-1980s washing machines were serviced like cars with annual or biannual checks. “Now manufacturers are creating products that cannot be repaired economically, or with sealed parts that cannot be repaired at all. They often sell products as ‘eco-friendly’, but if they can’t be fixed and have to be thrown out after a few years the damage to the environment is phenomenal.”There are plenty of items that do keep working for decades, as Guardian Money found as it went in search of the oldest working domestic appliances around, and the stories behind them:Nick Buckley, 35, a TV director from Rickmansworth in Hertfordshire, still uses a Rowenta steam iron, marked “Made in West Germany”. He inherited it from his mother, Sharon, 16 years ago, but she remembers learning to iron with it in 1960, using tea towels and handkerchiefs (“yes, we did that in those days,” she says). Nick adds: “It’s brilliant. I use it every day to iron my shirts. We even had the original ironing board until recently, but then I got worried about asbestos so we changed it.”Chris Evans, 38, owner of Blighty, a cafe and workspace in Finsbury Park, London, has a 1970s Hoover donated by a customer and still used.­ Evans says: “It fits in with our brand and the old community coffee house feel we are trying­ to recreate. It’s so nice to be able to use something that was given to us by a customer who has lived in the area for decades.”Anne White, 61, from Kinross in Scotland and director of a property company, is also still using the vacuum cleaner she bought in the early 1970s. Hers is a Nilfisk GS90. “Both my children­ have passed the 30 mark and I had it when they were very little. I haven’t replaced it with a newer appliance simply because it remains as efficient­ as ever.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anna Niman with her 1920s Singer sewing machine, accompanied by Pussy Cat. Photograph: Leah Milner“I have lusted after cool Dyson models that take up very little room, but I simply can’t justify spending that money until it totally packs in, which I suspect it never will. I believe newer appliances are designed with a limited lifespan to fuel further sales.”Anna Niman, 36, an artist and photographer from Camden in London uses her mum’s old Singer sewing machine. which dates back to 1923. It was later converted for use with an electric pedal and given to her mother as a 21st birthday present in 1966. Anna says: “Mum used to make clothes and accessories to sell in Carnaby Street in the Sixties as well as clothes for me as a child and costumes for my productions at dance school. End of the line for stuff that's built to die? “I learned to sew on it, starting with dolls clothes and later I’d make my martial arts gear. Now I bring it out whenever I need to make cushion covers, aprons, pencil cases or gifts.” In our search for aged appliances, we also heard from several readers with functioning Kenwood Chefs from the 1960s, a 1970s Teasmaid that still brews up every morning, a Hoover Dustette from the 1950s and a Tricity refrigerator from 1965 as well as many more there is no space to list.Have your appliances been going this long or even longer? Email us at: consumer.champions@theguardian.com‘It’s a fragile link with the past’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Leah Milner with her 1960s Philips electric whisk, which she inherited from her grandmother. Photograph: Anna NimanFor journalist Leah Milner, life became a poignant nostalgia trip when she moved back into her family home.“Living back in the family­ home while I save up towards buying my own place, I’m surrounded by items I’ve known since my childhood, and some hand-me-downs that go back even further. “Still working, and in almost daily use, are the Bosch S210 dishwasher and the Creda tumble dryer, both wedding presents to my parents in 1980. At an impressive 36 years old, they’ve lasted more than three times as long as the marriage itself, and who knows how many more cycles they may turn? “Then there is my mother’s Frister & Rossmann sewing machine from the 1960s. She used to stitch her own clothes from Biba patterns, bringing Kensington style to the streets of Cardiff where she and my father went to university. Now she uses it to make quilts and outfits for her baby grandson. “There is also the 1960s Philips electric whisk which I inherited from my late paternal grandmother, who I knew as Nana Milner. Joan, as she was known to everyone else, died around 15 years ago, but I still remember the cakes made with it in the 1980s. She would produce a whole tray of assorted treats at the weekend. “The whisk was bought at a time when my grandfather’s pharmacy started to do well and their suburban home suddenly became full of 1960s gadgets. “There are plenty of flash new models that would probably get the job done in half the time, with a lot less noise. But there is something very poignant about whipping up a meringue into stiff peaks, just as she would have done. It is a fragile link with the past; the meals shared and lives lived by people we miss.”Your rights when returning faulty goodsWe're all losers to a gadget industry built on planned obsolescence According to Which?, the consumer group, if you purchased the goods from 1 October 2015 then the Consumer Rights Act applies. If you purchased the goods on or before 30 September 2015 your rights are set out by the Sale of Goods Act. Under the Consumer Rights Act you have an early right to reject goods that are of unsatisfactory quality, unfit for purpose or not as described and get a full refund. But this is limited to 30 days from the date of purchase. After the initial 30 days, you cannot demand a full refund­ in the first instance, but you still have the right to a repair or replacement.­ If your product was bought after 1 October 2015, and it is outside the 30-day right to reject, you have to give the retailer one opportunity to repair or replace any goods – you can choose which. But the retailer can refuse if they can show that your choice is disproportionately expensive compared with the alternative. If the attempt at a repair or replacement is unsuccessful, you can claim a refund or a price reduction if you wish to keep the product. Many products are sold with a manufacturer’s guarantee (or warranty), often for a year. Manufacturers must keep to whatever they promise in this contract. Usually, this will be to repair or replace a faulty item. However, you still have rights under the Consumer Rights Act or Sale of Goods Act even if your guarantee has expired. It will depend on the product and the fault, but you could be legally entitled to a free repair or, in some cases, a replacement by the retailer for some time after the manufacturer’s guarantee has expired.