Rock legend David Bowie has died, 18 months after being diagnosed with cancer. His son Duncan Jones first confirmed the news, and shortly after, Facebook, Twitter and Instagram feeds were overwhelmed with tributes to the pop pioneer. Duncan Jones (@ManMadeMoon)Very sorry and sad to say it's true. I'll be offline for a while. Love to all. pic.twitter.com/Kh2fq3tf9mJanuary 11, 2016Longtime producer Tony Visconti described his shock on hearing of the death of “an extraordinary man”.  He always did what he wanted to do. And he wanted to do it his way and he wanted to do it the best way. His death was no different from his life – a work of art. He made Blackstar for us, his parting gift. I knew for a year this was the way it would be. I wasn’t, however, prepared for it. He was an extraordinary man, full of love and life. He will always be with us. For now, it is appropriate to cry.Another key Bowie collaborator was Brian Eno, who said in a statement via the BBC: David’s death came as a complete surprise, as did nearly everything else about him. I feel a huge gap now.We knew each other for over 40 years, in a friendship that was always tinged by echoes of Pete and Dud. Over the last few years - with him living in New York and me in London - our connection was by email. We signed off with invented names: some of his were mr showbiz, milton keynes, rhoda borrocks and the duke of ear.About a year ago we started talking about Outside - the last album we worked on together. We both liked that album a lot and felt that it had fallen through the cracks. We talked about revisiting it, taking it somewhere new. I was looking forward to that.I received an email from him seven days ago. It was as funny as always, and as surreal, looping through word games and allusions and all the usual stuff we did. It ended with this sentence: ‘Thank you for our good times, brian. they will never rot’. And it was signed ‘Dawn’.I realise now he was saying goodbye.David Cameron, British prime minister and leader of the Conservative party, expressed his sadness with two tributes to the late musician. On Facebook Cameron described him as “someone who truly deserves to be described as a genius”. He also shared the following message on Twitter: David Cameron (@David_Cameron)I grew up listening to and watching the pop genius David Bowie. He was a master of re-invention, who kept getting it right. A huge loss.January 11, 2016Many figures from the world of pop and rock have reacted – with the likes of Madonna, Gene Simmons, Yoko Ono, The Rolling Stones, Florence Welch, Kanye West and the Pixies celebrating Bowie’s influence on their work.Yoko Ono (@yokoono)As John & I had very few friends, we felt David was as close as family. Sweet memories will stay with us forever. pic.twitter.com/WoZsztnm4EJanuary 11, 2016Iggy Pop (@IggyPop)MESSAGE FROM IGGY: "David’s friendship was the light of my life. I never met such a brilliant person. He was the best there is. - Iggy Pop"January 11, 2016Gene Simmons (@genesimmons)David Bowie, you will be sorely missed. Bowie's “Changes” and the Ziggy story songs were a major influence for me. pic.twitter.com/N1nkD9h82WJanuary 11, 2016The Rolling Stones (@RollingStones)The Rolling Stones are shocked and deeply saddened to hear of the death of our dear friend David Bowie... 1/2January 11, 2016The Rolling Stones (@RollingStones)As well as being a wonderful and kind man, he was an extraordinary artist, and a true original. 2/2 #DavidBowieJanuary 11, 2016Foo Fighters (@foofighters)Rest in peace, David. pic.twitter.com/9Kv9yM9ighJanuary 11, 2016Cyndi Lauper (@cyndilauper)Oh no I am so sorry to hear of David Bowie's passing. He was such a great artist and has lead the way for so many of us.January 11, 2016Madonna (@Madonna)Talented . Unique. Genius. Game Changer. The Man who Fell to Earth. Your Spirit Lives on Forever! 🙏🏻❤️ #rebelheart pic.twitter.com/k3k3lfL3BvJanuary 11, 2016In a longer post on Facebook, Madonna detailed the seismic impact that seeing Bowie as the Thin White Duke had on her as an artist: I’m devastated.David Bowie changed the course of my life forever. I never felt like I fit in growing up in Michigan. Like an oddball or a freak. I went to see him in concert at Cobo Arena in Detroit. It was the first concert I’d ever been too. I snuck out of the house with my girlfriend wearing a cape.We got caught after and I was grounded for the summer. I didn’t care.I already had many of his records and was so inspired by the way he played with gender confusion.Was both masculine and feminine.Funny and serious.Clever and wise.His lyrics were witty ironic and mysterious.At the time he was the Thin White Duke and he had mime artists on stage with him and very specific choreographyAnd I saw how he created a persona and used different art forms within the arena of rock and Roll to create entertainment.I found him so inspiring and innovative.Unique and provocative. A real Genius.his music was always inspiring but seeing him live set me off on a journey that for me I hope will never end.His photographs are hanging all over my house today.He was so chic and beautiful and elegant.So ahead of his time.Thank you David Bowie.I owe you a lot. The world will miss you.LoveMElsewhere, many musicians kept their praise short, sweet and sombre: florence welch (@flo_tweet)David Bowie was a huge influence on me throughout my life. The original star-man returned to the stars...January 11, 2016KANYE WEST (@kanyewest)David Bowie was one of my most important inspirations, so fearless, so creative, he gave us magic for a lifetime.January 11, 2016Pharrell Williams (@Pharrell)David Bowie was a true innovator, a true creative. May he rest in peace 🖖🏾 #RIPDavidBowieJanuary 11, 2016Marc Almond (@MarcAlmond)It's not often I truly cry at the loss of an artist but I'm devastated. He meant so much. Goodbye David Bowie and our youth. We loved you. XJanuary 11, 2016ed simons (@eddychemical)Blue, blue, Electric blue https://t.co/KtraSaUUUqJanuary 11, 2016PIXIES (@PIXIES)RIP David Bowie. A true InspIration pic.twitter.com/My0BrfSqgSJanuary 11, 2016Paul McCartney writes that Bowie’s “star will shine forever”:  Very sad news to wake up to on this raining morning. David was a great star and I treasure the moments we had together. His music played a very strong part in British musical history and I’m proud to think of the huge influence he has had on people all around the world.“I send my deepest sympathies to his family and will always remember the great laughs we had through the years. His star will shine in the sky forever.Jarvis Cocker of Pulp spoke to BBC 6Music, praising Bowie’s outsider influence:  He was like an umbrella for people who felt a bit different. Bowie was like a like a lighthouse that guided those people and made them feel it was alright to be different, to try things out and dye your hair and wear strange clothes. I think people feel it very personally because he was very important in how people grew up.I do think it’s quite amazing that he put this record out and managed to keep it secret that he was ill. People should watch that ‘Blackstar’ video and listen to that song. It’s like he’s saying goodbye to everybody, he’s controlling it.We can all talk about David Bowie. I think the best thing to do on this day would be to listen to him, and to watch films of him and just see what a fantastic artist he was and how many different guises he had, and the incredible amount of work that he did.Obviously it’s a sad day that he’s died, but the fact that he managed to stay in control of that image and make another artistic statement when he was obviously ill and knew that he was dying, I think that’s incredible and it makes me feel quite happy that he stayed creative right to the end of his life. I think that can only be inspirational.According to Visconti, Bowie listened to “a lot” of Kendrick Lamar while working on Blackstar. In his tribute published today, the rapper said it was an “honor”. Kendrick Lamar (@kendricklamar)What a honor, what a soul. David Bowie, Spirit of Gold. RIP.January 11, 2016New Order’s Bernard Sumner also sent his respects to the star:  Very shocked and saddened to watch the news this morning and hear about the death of David Bowie. I always looked up at him and thought yeah - he’s the real deal, indisputably good, a figurehead for a whole host of musicians I’m sure. We’ve lost someone unique who can’t be replaced.Actor Whoopi Goldberg paid her condolences to Bowie’s family, and posted an image of herself with the artist at an MTV rock and comedy special.Elsewhere, the actor Joseph Gordon-Levitt quoted Eight Line Poem from Hunky Dory, while Mark Ruffalo described Bowie as “father of all us freaks”. Joseph Gordon-Levitt (@hitRECordJoe)"But the key to the city is in the sun that pins the branches to the sky..." #DavidBowieJanuary 11, 2016Mark Ruffalo (@MarkRuffalo)Rip Father of all us freaks. Sad sad day. Love always Legendary singer David Bowie dies at 69 https://t.co/ezRx7NVhSC # via HuffPostEntJanuary 11, 2016British author Neil Gaiman and his wife, the musician Amanda Palmer, each took to Twitter to share their reactions to Bowie’s death.Neil Gaiman (@neilhimself)Stunned and sad. The world is emptier now, and all they stars crashing down. My love and sympathies to @ManMadeMoon.January 11, 2016Amanda Palmer (@amandapalmer)just got call from @hollyherself about david bowie, hugged @neilhimself hard. one of his favorite musicians of all time. one of my heroes.January 11, 2016Formula 1 world champion Lewis Hamilton described the artist as “one of the greatest”. Tributes even came in from space. British astronaut Tim Peake, currently orbiting Earth in the International Space Station, tweeted a message of condolence.The German Foreign Office have thanked Bowie for his role in bringing down the Berlin Wall, posting live footage of Heroes, a track written during his Berlin period, which describes two lovers separated by the Wall: “I can remember/Standing, by the wall/And the guns, shot above our heads/And we kissed, as though nothing could fall/And the shame, was on the other side.”GermanForeignOffice (@GermanyDiplo)Good-bye, David Bowie. You are now among #Heroes. Thank you for helping to bring down the #wall. https://t.co/soaOUWiyVl #RIPDavidBowieJanuary 11, 2016Glastonbury’s Emily Eavis added her condolences. Emily Eavis (@emilyeavis)Thank you David Bowie for all the magic and memories. pic.twitter.com/6yE6dKPxZXJanuary 11, 2016... As did Cardinal Gianfranco Ravasi, the president of the Pontifical Council for Culture, who tweeted lyrics from the singer’s 1969 single Space Oddity.Gianfranco Ravasi (@CardRavasi)Ground Control to Major Tom Commencing countdown, engines on Check ignition and may God's love be with you (David Bowie)January 11, 2016