1 Josephine Baker hits BrixtonPatience Agbabi makes language swing as she imagines an encounter with the 1920s singer, dancer and political activist Josephine Baker in Brixton, London. It’s a double monologue shaped like a palindrome, or mirror-poem, in which the second stanza uses the same lines as the first, but in reverse. As the two garçonnes (sexually liberated women) enjoy a pick-up that’s also a mutual pick-me-up, you might not notice the formal virtuosity, but you’ll definitely feel the joy.Josephine Baker Finds HerselfShe picked me uplike a slow-burning fuse. I was downthat girls’ club used to run in Brixton,on acid for fuel. Lipstick lesbians,techno so hardcore it’s spewing out Audis.She samples my heartbeat and mixes it withvodka on the rocks. I’m her light-skinned, negative,twenty-something, short black wavy-bobbed diva.She purrs La Garçonne, fancy a drink? I sayYes. She’s crossing the Star Bar like it’s a catwalk. So sleek!A string of pearls, her flapper dressstudded with low-cut diamondsthrough my skin, straight to my heart.Twenties chic! She worksme up and down. I worshipthe way she looks.The way she looksme up and down. I worshiptwenties chic. She worksthrough my skin, straight to my heartstudded with low-cut diamonds.A string of pearls her flapper dress.Yes! She’s crossing the Star Bar like it’s a catwalk so sleekshe purrs, la garçonne! Fancy a drink? I say.Twenty-something, short, Black, wavy-bobbed diva:Vodka on the rocks, I’m her light-skinned negative.She samples my heartbeat and mixes it withtechno so hardcore it’s spewing out Audison acid for fuel. Lipstick Lesbians,that girls’ club used to run in Brixtonlike a slow-burning fuse. I was down.She picked me up.From Bloodshot Monochrome, Patience Agbabi (Canongate, 2008). Her latest collection is Telling Tales, a lively re-mix of Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales.2 Life, please!Mind and body are old sparring partners, and their apparent argument gets a sharp new twist in this cleverly titled, deftly rhymed parable by Anne Stevenson. Both are tempted by “the naked abyss”. To turn away from death towards life is one of the great acts of courage. Indecision causes vertigo. If only we could ask our bodies to choose, there’d be no dilemma – every cell is hard-wired to shout: “Life, please!”VertigoMind led bodyto the edge of the precipice.They stared in desireat the naked abyss.If you love me, said mind,take that step into silence.If you love me, said body,turn and exist.From Poems 1955-2005, Anne Stevenson (Bloodaxe, 2004). Her most recent collection is Astonishment.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  3 A miniature sun in every cupPerhaps suspicious of vulgar self-indulgence, the lyric muse tends to ignore the sense of taste. But this poem by Tomas Tranströmer, the Swedish Nobel prize-winner, defies the etiquette. Its grammar-dodging couplets invite us to sit with the poet in a cheerful, outdoor cafe on a spring morning. That “daylight dot of beneficent black” is like a miniature sun in every cup. And the coffee is not only delicious, but a spur to activity and inspiration. Sing caffeine Muse! EspressoThe black coffee they serve outdoorsamong tables and chairs gaudy as insects.Precious distillationsfilled with the same strength as Yes and No.It’s carried out from the gloomy kitchenand looks into the sun without blinking.In the daylight a dot of beneficent blackthat quickly flows into a pale customer.It’s like the drops of black profoundnesssometimes gathered up by the soul,giving a salutary push: Go!Inspiration to open your eyes.From New Collected Poems, Tomas Tranströmer (Bloodaxe, 2011). Robin Fulton, Tranströmer’s translator, publishes his own poems as Robin Fulton MacPherson. His A Northern Habitat: Collected Poems 1960-2010 is published by Marick Press, Michigan.4 Feathered favouriteEmily Dickinson was a super-keen observer of nature and her poems are packed with metaphor and allusion. Although the bird in this poem is generic, casually evoked as “the thing with feathers”, it somehow achieves a real presence. The small bird of Hope asks nothing, survives extremity and never ceases to sing “the tune without the words”. Paradoxically, this must be one of the most often-memorised poems ever written. “Hope” is the thing with feathers“Hope” is the thing with feathers --That perches in the soul --And sings the tune without the words --And never stops -- at all --And sweetest -- in the Gale -- is heard --And sore must be the storm --That could abash the little BirdThat kept so many warm --I’ve heard it in the chillest land --And on the strangest Sea --Yet -- never -- in Extremity,It asked a crumb -- of me.From The Complete Poems of Emily Dickinson (various editions available).5 The washing sulks in the cornerBetween the lines, Kim Moore may be writing about brawling lovers, but she exuberantly imagines their row as civil war between the objects in a house. It’s what is often described as “a domestic”. Even the doors go off in a huff, and the bed only just survives collapse. Enjoy the catharsis!In Praise of ArguingAnd the vacuum cleaner flewdown the stairs like a songand the hiking bootslaunched themselvesalong the landing.And one half of the househated the other halfand the blindswound themselves aroundeach other.And the doors flungthemselves into the streetand flounced awayand the washing gatheredin corners and sulked.And the bed collapsedand was held up by booksand the walls developedscars and it was a glorious,glorious year.From The Art of Falling, Kim Moore (Seren, 2015). The poet is running a residential course at Abbot Hall, Grange over Sands, Cumbria, 10-14 April (01539 532896).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 6 That old seedy hotel sex magicJames Fenton’s speaker claims to have had enough of love. But as the old, seedy-hotel sex-magic asserts itself, his refrain gradually becomes one of delighted celebration. “Am I embarrassing you? I’m in Paris with you” gets my award for Best Rhyming Couplet in Contemporary English Poetry.In Paris with YouDon’t talk to me of love. I’ve had an earfulAnd I get tearful when I’ve had a drink or two.I’m one of your talking wounded.I’m a hostage. I’m maroonded.But I’m in Paris with you.Yes I’m angry at the way I’ve been bamboozledAnd resentful at the mess I’ve been through.I admit I’m on the reboundAnd I don’t care where are we bound.I’m in Paris with you.Do you mind if we do not go to the Louvre,If we say sod off to sodding Notre Dame,If we skip the Champs ElyséesAnd remain here in this sleazyOld hotel roomDoing this and thatTo what and whom,Learning who you are,Learning what I am.Don’t talk to me of love. Let’s talk of Paris,The little bit of Paris in our view.There’s the crack across the ceilingAnd the hotel walls are peelingAnd I’m in Paris with you.Don’t talk to me of love. Let’s talk of Paris.I’m in Paris with the slightest thing you do.I’m in Paris with your eyes, your mouth,I’m in Paris with … all points south.Am I embarrassing you?I’m in Paris with you.From Yellow Tulips (Faber, 2012). James Fenton’s Don Quixote: A Play with Songs adapted from the Novel by Miguel de Cervantes is also published by Faber.7 Dance of the newborn babyKate Miller’s poem charmingly captures all the dance moves of the newborn baby, whose native skills include the ability to lift its feet in the stepping reflex, “hopskip and bowing”. The image of the “separate knot” suggests both the umbilical cord and the casual kit of belongings tied together by an adventurous young traveller setting out.And now youexistoutside the royal room of blood you occupiedand – without being shown –can close a fist or yawn.Practised, you lookalready. Hopskip and bowing,treading measure in a dance.You only took to unfamiliar airwith your first taste of dustyesterday as evening fell. All the falling,all the flow around you,hair and water, will become familiar:mother, father: skin-to-skin.You’ve swum the sea of welcome,been lifted on the swell,slipped waxy through the crowd of hands.Your own breath soundedthe all-clear,all’s well,when you sang out a firstexclamatory noteabout the cord that tied youbeing cut,the tying-off, your separate knot.From The Observances, Kate Miller’s debut collection (Carcanet, 2015).8 Queen of my own universeIf you’ve never won a race (or perhaps never even run a race) and worry you might have missed something special, sit back and enjoy Tracey Herd’s winning monologue. While Tomas Tranströmer discerned the sun in a cup of rich espresso, Herd finds it in the athlete’s gold medal, “like a tiny sun catching the last of the light”. The runner’s sensations are heightened and small details as deeply etched as the moment of victory on the speaker’s memory. What I Rememberis not the race itself but the eveningwhich disappeared in a tangle of divingsunlight and nerves as I hugged myself,chilled, and waited for the starter, bentforward, the tang of mown grasssprayed like water and the white linesfreshly painted on the spongy red track,breasting the tape, alone and splendid,queen of my own universe, then the medallike a tiny sun catching the last of the light,and feeling as if my heart would burst.From Not in This World, Tracey Herd (Bloodaxe, 2015).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 9 To bud and leaf againWith this poem by Gillian Clarke we’re in the depths of the winter solstice. All the “golden ones” have come to dust, and greater threats than winter may be brewing “while the world talks,/ and the ice melts, / and the seas rise”. But the winter trees are preparing to bud and leaf again, challenging the irony of the last line’s “Promises. Promises.”The Year’s MidnightThe flown, the fallen,the golden ones,the deciduous dead, all goneto ground, to dust, to sand,borne on the shoulders of the wind.Listen! They are whisperingnow while the world talks,and the ice melts,and the seas rise.Look at the trees!Every leaf-scar is a budexpecting a future.The earth speaks in parables.The burning bush. The rainbow.Promises. Promises.From Selected Poems (Picador, 2016). Gillian Clarke is a former National Poet of Wales.10 Every day is SaturdayYorkshire poet Maurice Rutherford was born in 1922, the same year as Philip Larkin. Here, the writer-narrator pauses to savour some everyday gifts of wonder and pleasure. A linnet on the lawn, a ship outward-bound, and memories of classroom horticulture all remind the poet – and us – that “a place where/ every day is Saturday, and Saturday is Christmas” can be reached through the power of imagination.Poem on SaturdayOutside my window, a linnet on the laburnumshows poetry to the other birds, preens,stutters its wings and corrugates awayacross the lawn, and the nest of wordsI am waiting to hatch goes cold.Yesterday, as from the office window I watcheda vessel leave the lockpits, outward-boundfor Genoa, slipping the tugs from the task in hand,my feet were treading Italian groundbefore the Humber had healed in her wake.I knew, once, a tall school window high abovethe tiers of desks, where, in carbolic air,peas imprisoned in a jar strove for the skyand begged me join in their climb to a place whereevery day is Saturday and Saturday is Christmas.From And Saturday is Christmas: New and Selected Poems (Shoestring Press, 2011). Maurice Rutherford’s latest publication is Marshalled Musings, “a father-daughter collaboration in prose poetry and paintings with Jeannie Clarke”. See mauricerutherford.comMore uplifting culture for 2017