Reeling off the winners and categories of the 2016 Golden Probes – a satirical award show applauding the worst of sexism and anti-choice politics – sounds hilarious, until, that is, you remember that these politicians actually determine US laws.Ohio’s attorney general, Mike Dewine, nabbed the “best adaptation of reality” award for claiming Planned Parenthood “steam-cooked” fetuses.Virginia state representative Bob Marshall won the “best original science” award for declaring that women who have abortions often later give birth to handicapped children.The “best acting like you care about women in a non-supportive role” gong went to the Republican congressman Steve King of Iowa for claiming that abortion should be illegal because sexual predators can abuse children without people knowing, by aborting the evidence.Former lawmaker Wendy Davis: 'Trolls want to diminish and sexualize you' The inaugural Golden Probes, “misogyny’s most glamorous evening”, took place last Sunday night in Manhattan. The sneaker-wearing feminist favorite Wendy Davis, the former Daily Show correspondent Jessica Williams and the Orange is the New Black star Lea DeLaria presented awards, while other celebrities – including comedians Sarah Silverman, Samantha Bee and Broad City’s Ilana Glaser and Abbi Jacobson – appeared in recorded videos. The Golden Probes is just the latest project by Lady Parts Justice (LPJ), an organization created in 2012 aimed at using humor and the internet to fight for reproductive health.LPJ creates and posts funny political videos online, “dropping information into popular culture spaces so people can swallow it in a way that’s palatable, and feel outraged and motivated”, said co-founder Lizz Winstead. Winstead co-created The Daily Show and served as the show’s head writer for years, so she knows how to mix politics and pop culture.“I think it is really important for us to have fun and to laugh and to point our finger at those that are being absolutely ridiculous,” said Amy Hagstrom Miller, founder of Whole Woman’s Health, an organization which runs abortion clinics across the country.Hagstrom Miller was a presenter at the Golden Probes and sits on the board of LPJ’s sister organization, Lady Parts Justice League, the educational arm of LPJ. She led her Texas clinics to the supreme court of the United States, arguing against Texas’s restrictive HB 2 law – which demanded clinics function like mini hospitals and led to half of the state’s abortion clinics closing – and won in June.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ambrosia Parsley and Holly Miranda perform at the Golden Probe awards. Photograph: JP Yim/Getty Images for Lady Parts Justice“Our work is very difficult on the frontlines; we’re confronted every single day. Sometimes it’s just absolutely absurd so it’s fun to step back and laugh at it,” said Hagstrom Miller, speaking about LPJ. LPJ functions in a “a kind of USO [United Service Organizations] capacity,” said Winstead, by providing support – ranging from odd jobs painting walls and fixing gardens to throwing parties – for abortion clinics around the country. In Ohio, during the RNC, the group brought in a taco truck to the parking lot of an abortion clinic and hosted a staff party. In Montgomery, Alabama, members worked as clinic escorts helping women pass through lines of activists and also threw clinic workers a party. In Louisville, Kentucky, they hosted a breakfast for workers and held a comedy show. And in Buffalo, New York, they delivered cupcakes to a clinic.Next week they’re off to Fort Worth, Texas, to build a fence for an abortion clinic.The last few years have seen a “constant onslaught” of laws aimed at restricting abortion access, with 2,000 proposed or passed in state legislatures since 2013, Winstead said. LPJ attempts to highlight the often forgotten work of the states – whether related to shutting down abortion clinics, restrictive voter ID laws or restricting bathroom access to trans people.“Most important legislation is coming out of the states and it’s happening because people don’t know how all this anti-choice legislation is drafted,” said Winstead.State politicians who make these laws – usually white, cisgender men – often run in elections with low voter turnout and little public interest, allowing them to slip under the radar. “It’s not people driven by science, facts, constitutional law or even working knowledge of anatomy that are elected,” noted Winstead.“Women’s healthcare is compromised in order for Republican officeholders to promote their own agenda,” said Davis, who founded the political organization Deeds Not Words. She noted that the Texas maternal death rate has doubled in the last five years and that women are self-inducing abortions in higher numbers. “It’s a whirlwind of misogyny. We see it on full display in this election, but those of us who have been fighting on behalf of gender equality for this country have been seeing it every day on both local, state and national levels,” Davis said.At the Golden Probes, Indiana’s governor, Mike Pence, might have narrowly missed out on the “outstanding underperformance by a politician in a leading role” award (that went to Kentucky Governor Matt Bevin, for claiming that the blood of innocents will need to be spilled if Hillary Clinton is elected president), but several high-profile guests said they’d award their own Golden Probe to Pence’s presidential running mate, Donald Trump.“He doesn’t say real things. He doesn’t form full sentences. And the idea of that is very …” Williams, who’s currently working on her own show for Comedy Central, trailed off, staring blankly ahead.“He’s a sexist, misogynist fucking piece of shit white straight rich guy in a really shitty toupee,” said Lea DeLaria, who stars as Big Boo on Orange is the New Black. “How can you make fun of someone for the way they look when they look like him? Unless he transplants his brain into Brad Pitt’s body, he should shut the fuck up,” quipped DeLaria.