Have you had cosmetic surgery and regretted it? It’s a question we posed to our readers after new data showed that the number of people choosing to go under the knife in Britain is the lowest in nearly a decade.Here is a selection of your responses:Anna, 34, from Yorkshire: ‘I’d rather live with A-cup boobs than feel constant pain from the implants’I had breast augmentation at the age of 21. I had recently broken up with a long-term partner of five years, so I changed my appearance: I lost loads of weight, got new hair and fake boobs. I regret it so much now. I developed problems almost immediately afterwards and have had to live with them ever since.Is Brexit really to blame for the decline in plastic surgery? | Tim Dowling The surgery took about an hour in total. I stayed in as an overnight patient. The first six hours afterwards I was pretty sleepy and threw up a lot. The surgeon checked me the next day, the drains were removed and I went home. It took about two weeks for me to feel normal again. One of my scars didn’t heal as well as the other but both ended up being pretty invisible. I got painkillers and antibiotics for five days.Then I started experiencing some problems. At first it was discomfort and a strange bubble under the skin. I called the clinic and reported this at my post-surgery check-ins. They had me see another surgeon who said my first surgeon had done something wrong with the pocket made for the implant. They said it needed surgically revising but I would need to pay more for this. The problem was I had no money. More than 10 years later I still have daily pain, hardening and lumps that I cannot afford to have fixed.I was unlucky that it went wrong. I didn’t factor into my calculations that besides needing to replace my implants every 15 years or so, my surgery provider might make a mistake. When my implants were done, they were using dodgy silicone, which I am positive is part of the issue. I paid thousands to get it done. Surgery isn’t any cheaper in the UK now, and the cost of living has risen a lot. I am sure that’s putting people off getting procedures.The price is the reason I haven’t had revision surgery. As soon as I am able to afford it, I will be removing my implants. I would rather live my life with A-cup boobs and push-up bras than continue this constant pain from the implants.John, 68, from Los Angeles: ‘People are scared of going under the knife because of all the horror stories’  John, before his surgery.I have no regrets – I am happy with my surgery. My wife is quite a lot younger than me, which prompted my decision to get a facelift, with work done to my eyelids, eye bags and eyebrows. My skin was in good condition but some areas could be cleaned up. Your eyes get smaller as you get older, so I had that sorted out. My wife has asked me what I want to do for my 70th birthday and it will be to get my surgery done again – it has been nearly 15 years since it was done.   John after his surgery.Surgery numbers might be down because of the economy. I have read a lot of articles about people having bad experiences, too. You can die; some people get septicaemia and, if you don’t go to the right place, then you can have bad experiences. That’s what has scared them away. The press can be sensationalist about it. You cannot take it lightly – you’re going under general anaesthetic but, at the end of the day, it’s your own decision to make. For me, I am happy.Zara, 40, from London: ‘I am not sure I could afford cosmetic surgery now, with the rising cost of living’I was 26 when I had my breast augmentation. I’d never had the boobs to match the rest of my curves so I decided to do something about it. I had thought about getting surgery on and off for a while, but had only given it serious consideration for about a year. I did intensive research online and saw a couple of surgeons before I signed up. It was £3,500, which was a lot back then.The operation went well. I woke up feeling like I had a baby elephant sitting on my chest and my boobs were so high up they looked ridiculous. I was told they had gone under the pec muscle, so I should expect that. Other than that, my recovery went well. There were no complications. I was surprised at how long they took to “settle in” so to speak. The sort of implants I got, under the muscle, are held very tightly, especially if – like me – you work out hard. So for a few years they sat quite high on my chest. It took about six years to get the feeling back in them.In the aggressive world of cosmetic surgery, patients can't afford to be naive | Ranjana Srivastava I love them now, though. They look natural and feel very much like part of me. I went as big as I could at the time. My bra size went from 32A to 32E and, for about seven or eight years, I always thought I’d go bigger. But I’m happy with them as they are until such time anything may indicate they need to be replaced. My next checkup is due in 10 years. Nowadays, I am not sure I could afford cosmetic surgery, with the rising cost of living. But I’m not ruling out some peels and fillers. Cosmetic surgery has fallen in popularity because people have less money to spend. Surgery is expensive and taking time off to recover in such a precarious job market isn’t easy. Also, fashion has changed – the “hello boys” poster girl has given way to waif-like boyish figures. Once again A-line shift dresses and spaghetti-strap silk vests fill the stores. My advice to anyone considering surgery is to research the risks and find a good surgeon. Emily, 53, from south-east England: ‘The end result was disastrous. I looked like I had been chewed’I had two children in quick succession, put on a lot of weight during my second pregnancy, and was left with a stomach that sagged to my thighs. My breasts – which were huge to begin with – were now even bigger and sagged to my hips. My GP said that I would be eligible for a breast reduction on the NHS as I was suffering with severe back pain. However, I didn’t take it further at the time. Instead, I got to 40, lost a lot of weight and hated the way I looked. Everything sagged and nothing short of surgery could correct that. I investigated plastic surgeons and settled on one with a long waiting list. When I met the surgeon who was going to work on me, I didn’t like him. He was detached, arrogant and patronising. But he had a good reputation, so I booked to have a breast reduction and tummy tuck. The end result was disastrous. I looked like I had been chewed. My stomach had zig-zag scars and my breasts W-shaped scars that burst open. I can laugh about it now, but all I got from him was a letter acknowledging that I wasn’t happy with the surgery and offering revision. I had no faith in him so, a couple of years later, I had corrective surgery elsewhere. I was and remain thrilled with the results – the next surgeon miraculously erased my scars and gave me a better body than I’ve ever had.It has left me very wary. I did everything right, so I thought. But there is nowhere to turn to when things go wrong. I was left mangled. Although, in the end, it has been a good thing. I have a body I am comfortable with now; I look normal both dressed and undressed. My back is better for not carrying the weight of my old breasts and I can wear what I like.Some names have been changed.