Britain & Europe: For Richer or Poorer? 9pm, BBC2By now, many people will doubtless be feeling like crawling under the nearest rock until 24 June. But polls suggest that a healthy chunk of the electorate have yet to make a final decision on Britain’s continuing membership of the EU, so this investigation, helmed by Laura Kuenssberg, will be a useful primer. Kuenssberg will talk to people on both sides of the argument as she tiptoes nervously through the journalistic minefield that this emotive debate is proving to be. Phil HarrisonMylene Klass: Single Mums on Benefits 9pm, ITVIt is sometimes annoying when TV addresses serious issues through the prism of celebrity, but this may be a helpful exception. As a single mother herself, Mylene Klass has often felt the stigma imposed by society. In this series, she looks to uncover the truth behind the tawdry “welfare queen” headlines, meeting mums struggling to raise children on state benefits, and coming to understand the harsh reality of their situation. David StubbsRevolution and Romance: Musical Masters of the 19th Century 9pm, BBC4First instalment of Suzy Klein’s survey of the music of the 19th century. Tonight, she contends persuasively that the early 1800s marked the beginning of the idea of the musician as wealthy celebrity, rather than impoverished artisan. As Klein notes, Beethoven, Wagner, Schubert, Mahler and Debussy all acquired sufficient fame to not merely reflect their times but, on occasion, direct them. Andrew MuellerThe Tunnel: Sabotage 9pm, Sky AtlanticSome thriller finales are non-stop blood, sweat and death; others consider earlier episodes to have dealt with all that nonsense already. This denouement – for season two of the drama that began as a Bridge remake, but has now acquired its own identity as the story of an Anglo-French anti-terror team – is in the second category. Even one moment of startling horror doesn’t detract from this crisply filmed, ruminative slowburn of a saga. Jack SealeParty Pensioners: Sex, Drugs & Bingo 10pm, Channel 5Classy stuff as ever here from Channel 5, in a show that follows three women in their 60s as they look for late-life fulfilment: be that a younger male companion or, in the case of Jane Buckle, fame at any price. The 62-year old from Hungerford has been an X Factor contestant and had a video “go viral”, and now performs a strange dance/poetry combo in local pubs. There’s a fine line between liberation and exploitation. John RobinsonWorld War One Remembered: The Battle of Jutland 10.45am BBC1It was supposed to be another Trafalgar, but when German and British warships clashed off the coast of Denmark on 31 May 1916, what should have been a decisive victory for the Royal Navy resulted in the loss of 14 British ships and more than 6,000 allied lives. David Dimbleby looks back at the conflict, as the Princess Royal and the German president pay tribute to the fallen, in this centennial event. Ali CatterallBroad City 11pm, Comedy CentralIt’s an unwritten law that any ID photo will show the subject in the most unflattering light possible. This week, Abbi attempts to buck that particular trend as she gets her driving licence renewed. Meanwhile, Ilana’s quest for employment ends with an unlikely role on Hillary Clinton’s primary campaign team. Hillary’s guest spot here could provide her with some much-needed street cred before she takes on another New York-based source of comedy in Donald Trump. Mark Gibbings JonesFilm choiceMelancholia (Lars von Trier, 2011), 9pm, Sky Arts      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kirsten Dunst in Melancholia. Photograph: Allstar/Magnolia Pictures/Sportsphoto LtdThe end of the world is nigh in Lars Von Trier’s obtuse, arresting disaster movie. A giant rogue planet called Melancholia has slipped its orbit and is about to smash the Earth into oblivion. So, clearly it’s time for Kirsten Dunst’s melancholic Justine to get married – a grand, dysfunctional affair involving nihilistic sex with a stranger on the golf course of the stately country venue – before cutting to the vividly realised, thoroughly mystifying final impact. Paul HowlettInsomnia (Christopher Nolan, 2002), Tuesday, 10.10pm, Sky Movies GreatsRobin Williams unveils a darker side in this inventive, gripping thriller from the Dark Knight director. A remake of a Norwegian film, this has Al Pacino as hardbitten LA detective Will Dormer who, along with sweet local cop Ellie (Hilary Swank), is investigating the brutal murder of a teenager in a remote Alaskan fishing village. Williams is the creepy prime suspect and taunting nemesis of Dormer, who is sleepless and disoriented in a land of inverted film noir, where the sun never sets. Paul HowlettLive sportTest cricket: England v Sri Lanka The final day of the second Test match of the summer from Durham. 10.30am, Sky Sports 2 Tennis: The French Open More grand slam action from Roland Garros in Paris as the quarter-finals get under way. 12.30pm, ITV4 Horse racing Coverage of the race meetings at Lingfield Park, Wolverhampton and Ballinrobe. 7pm, Sky Sports 1