After daily testing of Tian Tian's hormone levels, a close watch on her bathing habits and regular reports about her mate's yen for bamboo, Edinburgh zoo has finally opened the love tunnel for Britain's only pair of giant pandas.Almost four months to the day since Tian Tian and Yang Guang arrived on a flight from China, the two giant pandas were brought together on Tuesday to mate. It seems the sudden cold snap in Scotland has given both bears the boost they needed.At 9am sharp, keepers at Edinburgh zoo opened a small gate between the bears' two neighbouring enclosures for the first of five liaisons during the day, each lasting five minutes. By the end of that first day, their meetings had been physical and playful; they coupled more than once, but failed to reach the sexual summit.With the zoo keenly aware that pandas have a short window of opportunity, the pair will be allowed to meet again on Wedensday. Yang Guang was apparently showing greater aggression in their final meeting yesterday, so the zoo is growing optimistic that the couple will succeed in sowing the seeds for a scientific and commercial coup: a panda cub born in captivity.Having the first panda cub born in the UK would be significant enough for a zoo which a year ago suffered a £1.5m loss and a sharp fall in visitors. It is also paying $1m (£626,400) a year in rent to the Chinese during the 10-year loan of the animals. Edinburgh could really strike it rich, said Henry Nicholls, a biology writer who specialises in giant pandas, if Tian Tian produces twins. She has once before. "One is pretty cute. Two is more than double cute, I reckon," Nicholls said. "To have two tiny pandas careering around the place, they've got to be dreaming about that one." The zoo has been closely tracking Tian Tian's hormone levels since she arrived with Yang Guang on 4 December, recently testing her urine every morning to confirm that her oestrogen levels have soared. They have also measured Yang Guang's sharp increase in bamboo consumption, and listened carefully to their increasingly amorous calls."She's showing huge interest in him," said Rachel Goddard, the zoo's communications director. "She's very keen, showing all the right behaviour; lots and lots of calling out to him very loudly. In the gate dubbed the love tunnel, they were both pressing up against it, with their paws and noses. When they were first together, they didn't do the full deed but he's mounted her twice and they've done lots of wrestling and roly-polys around the floor."They have a narrow window of opportunity: female pandas have only about 36 hours a year when they ovulate and can become pregnant. Within that time, she may only be truly receptive for 12 hours, making it crucial to catch them both in the right mood. The zoo has dropped proposals to use artificial insemination to ensure a pregnancy, for this year at least. To help things along, the zoo has given the pair a brief moment of privacy. The full-length plate glass viewing galleries have been temporarily closed to the public, and the zoo's online "panda cam" has been turned off. Over the weekend, both bears were allowed into each other's compounds on their own, where they happily sprayed scent across their putative partner's territories.After a negative hormone test on Monday, Professor Tan Chunxiang, a Chinese vet and panda expert flown specially to oversee the mating, judged that Tian Tian had finally ovulated during the night, so the bears were brought together.Nicholls said predicting precisely when a panda is fertile is far more accurate than it was with previous pairs brought to the UK in the 1960s, 70s and 80s, thanks to much more effective testing of the female's hormones. They can now watch for a sharp peak in her oestrogen levels with great accuracy.Will Travers, of the Born Free foundation wild animal welfare campaign, said the loan was a cynical, carefully managed fantasy to promote the Chinese government's economic and political interests. Between 1935 and 2012, there were 35 pandas born in zoos outside China, but 61 adult bears died in overseas zoos, with no real benefit to conservation."We're just being asked to enter into a fantasy world," he said. "This is a fanciful expeditionary process which has no real prospects of delivering substantive benefits to pandas, just because there are two pandas in Edinburgh."Even if Tian Tian is pregnant, Iain Valentine, Edinburgh zoo's director of research and conservation, said it could take at least 85 days before the zoo can be sure."We are hopeful of a positive outcome. However, we are realistic that this is only the very first year that Tian Tian and Yang Guang have been in Scotland and that we also have 10 more to go. If Tian Tian does get pregnant, confirmation of this may also not be straightforward. "Female pandas often have pseudo-pregnancies where their behaviour and hormones indicate they are pregnant for fairly long periods of time when in fact they're not."