As Britain grapples with the behemoth that is Brexit, culture and the arts face a much bigger job than simply keeping their many fans happy: the most varied and productive sector of national life now needs to somehow keep driving the British economy.Up until last month, thanks to the dominance of English-language films and television, as well as the wide interest in British visual arts, dance and music, an advantageous relationship with Europe had been assumed for decades.Now some of the funding pipelines are to be cut off for good while rich, homegrown donors begin to feel the pinch of renewed austerity. As European grants dwindle, so the smaller seedbed organisations that have inspired and developed British talent will shrink. New limits to freedom of movement could well deter potential job exchanges, while tens of thousands of valuable visiting arts students may put Britain further down their list of attractive places to acquire learning.Understandably then, an overriding fear of isolation has dominated reaction in the arts world since the referendum vote. But are these jittery cultural nerves misplaced?Will the Treasury and the culture secretary John Whittingdale boldly step up to invest in institutions that once relied upon capital grants from the EU? Will the government bravely continue to bankroll free entry into major museums? And will the low value of the pound actually attract fresh foreign investment and visitors?This month Whittingdale was bullish as his department trumpeted the news that jobs in the creative industries have increased three times faster than the national average, generating almost £10m an hour for the economy.“That success is built upon the extraordinary talent which exists in this country, an amazing cultural heritage, the English language and a tax system designed to support and encourage growth in the creative sector,” said the culture secretary, adding: “None of this is changed by the decision to leave the EU and I am confident that our creative industries will continue to thrive and take advantage of the new opportunities which are opening up to do business across the world.”Looking across all the art forms, the picture is mixed and yet universally wobbly. As John Kampfner, head of the Creative Industries Federation, told the Observer the threat is not just to future hard cash, but to the vital positive “atmospherics” that make Britain’s cultural scene thrive.The question is most pressing for Leeds, Milton Keynes and Dundee, all likely candidates for Britain’s scheduled chance to hold the coveted European City of Culture title in 2023. Leeds is carrying on preparing its bid and still expects to be asked to apply any day now.“We took soundings in the run-up to the referendum and were clear that Norway and Iceland, who are not in the EU, have both already been participants,” said Councillor Judith Blake, the leader of Leeds council. “In the absence of any indication that we should not, we think the work we are doing on this bid is valuable anyway. We certainly think that Europe could be minded to honour the 2023 arrangement.”Across the Pennines at Liverpool’s renowned Everyman Theatre the artistic director, Gemma Bodinetz, spoke to the Observer from inside its Stirling prize-winning auditorium, built with the help of European funds.“Well, this would not be here for a start,” she said. “We are all still reeling a little bit, and there will be emotional, soft consequences as well as the loss of potential funds. But as Liverpool starts its Biennial this weekend, we are clear that this is an outward-looking, port city that voted to remain.”Actor and director Samuel West, chair of the National Campaign for the Arts, voiced the sorrows of a community that voted overwhelmingly to stay in the EU. “We are now very concerned about our ability to access important European funding, such as the €1.3bn (£1.1bn) Creative Europe programme.“But the implications for the arts don’t end with money. There are a host of other issues that we must address over the coming months: international artistic exchange, export of cultural products, copyright, visas and access to training in European centres of excellence, to name just some.”The European programme that West mentions was created in January 2014 as a joint fund to inject money into both media and culture. The overarching European commission, together with the European investment fund, also launched a €121m fund to support smaller enterprises in the creative world, expected to result in more than €600m of bank loans throughout member countries in a six-year period. Helpful wads of this cash have already washed up on British shores.Elsewhere, in the creative world of marketing, the mood was characteristically upbeat: “There may be some uncertainty following the EU referendum about the future of our industry, but I believe we will continue to lead the globe in creative industries, especially in advertising and marketing,” said Rachel Aldighieri, managing director of the Direct Marketing Association. In visual arts the impact on high-end galleries should initially be beneficial, with a low pound encouraging interest from international collectors. Art dealer Thaddaeus Ropac, who is based in Austria and France, still plans to open a large gallery in the British capital in the spring of next year. “I have no doubt that London will continue to be one of the most vibrant and quintessential art centres in the world,” he has said.The venerable Royal Academy of Arts is preparing to build closer connections with European partners as a way of countering Brexit’s implications. “Cultural institutions like the RA have long been international in outlook and, through partnerships, we have encouraged ties between nations. We now have a responsibility to nurture such relations more than ever,” said its secretary and chief executive, Charles Saumarez Smith.Sadler’s Wells, the London venue synonymous with British dance, has received about €500,000 from the EU in recent years. Alistair Spalding, its artistic director, said this money was intended to fund collaborative projects across Europe. “These do enhance our programmes, but they are also part of bigger pan-European collaborations that are now unlikely to happen.”He is also concerned about the future introduction of work permits for visiting dancers from the continent. “That is a big burden of time and cost, and is a discouraging factor. It may be that directors are simply unable to employ the people they want.”The impact on the British film industry is already being felt, with arthouse projects expecting to lose funding and distribution streams. Just last week seven lucky British production companies scooped up what may be the last of the cash from Creative Europe’s Slate development scheme, sharing €1.2m. Katherine Bridle, head of film development at one of the winning seven, See-Saw Films, said: “We will be working with some of the most exciting filmmakers and writers from across the continent and media’s support will be a vital part of making this possible.”One of the most recent films to have benefited from EU money is director Matteo Garrone’s lavish fantasy Tale of Tales, starring Toby Jones and Shirley Henderson, which was released online and in cinemas last month by Curzon Artificial Eye, with the support of €340,000 from Creative Europe. Many British producers suspect that now, although American money will still be available for making blockbusters here, such adventurous projects will falter.Quality television has also done well out of Europe recently. BBC2’s acclaimed four-part documentary series Inside Obama’s White House was produced by independent company Brook Lapping Productions, part of Zinc Media, with the help of an EU grant. The company’s CEO, Mark Wood, has said the fund allowed the production of serious television: “Not having access to it will mean we can’t make the high-quality programmes we might otherwise, that’s for sure.”Classical music is vulnerable on several fronts. A poignant example is the London-based European Union Youth Orchestra, founded in 1976 after a European parliament resolution. It had only just escaped closure when it was brought up short again by Brexit. The orchestra, founded by philanthropists Lionel and Joy Bryer and conductor Claudio Abbado, operated as a cultural ambassador for the union, but ran out of funding last April. In June, its short-term future was secured by Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the European commission, with a €600,000 subsidy. But it could now be forced to move.At Sage, the great, millennial music venue in Gateshead, boss Abigail Pogson is about to find out what Brexit will mean. “Two things seem likely,” she said this weekend. “Economic uncertainty may lead to a decline in audiences, and artists will need to find different ways to collaborate and take their work beyond borders. We need to redouble our efforts as a sector to find new ways to have dialogue within and across communities. The arts can lead this.”The impact will be felt both high and low, from a small publishing company such as Peirene Press, which received Creative Europe funding for its 2015 Chance Encounters series, to the mighty Natural History Museum in Kensington. Like the Royal Academy of Arts, it intends to focus on maintaining its European links.“It is currently too early to comment on the effect Brexit will have on British cultural institutions, but the museum will continue to work with partners from Europe and beyond on issues that affect the whole of humankind, like climate change or global health, and where deep and far-reaching collaboration with an international community is vital to progress,” a spokesperson said, echoing the sentiment of the German-born director of the British Museum, Hartwig Fischer, who said earlier this month:“We think about where we come from – and what this museum has achieved at the heart of this nation and of Europe. We all know that we have to continue to share this future.”Kampfner has already set up a national series of meetings for members of his federation, but is not planning to ask the government for any favours. “If the creative industries suffer, it will be UK GDP that suffers,” he said. “We will not be saying, ‘Oh please’; we will say that we are central to the UK economy and the UK’s international reputation. The creative industries are not just ‘nice to have’ – they are now essential. They are the growth engine for the UK.”If this strategy fails, Britain’s artists may have to take inspiration from Australia and set up a single-issue Arts party. It worked for Ukip.