By 10am, the queue at the Lazarides Gallery in Covent Garden, London, is like the line for Centre Court, or for the release of Apple’s latest brushed aluminium thingy. The first queuers deposited themselves on the pavement at about 2am. Now, the line has wrapped around three sides of a block, and is in danger of lapping itself.The reason is Scott Campbell’s The Whole Glory, a project that allows six willing victims to get, for free, a tattoo worth thousands of dollars at the body artist’s present rates. There’s only one catch: they can’t choose what tattoo they get. The human canvases are chosen by raffle; they present their arm through a hole in the wall; on the other side is Campbell, who, with headphones on to blot out any chatter, generates his own vision of exactly the sort of tattoo each forearm requires, then inks it to life over the next hour.“I bring all my sketch books, and then like to keep it as spontaneous as possible,” he explains. “Whatever subliminal clues you get just from touching someone’s arm – I can’t help but make up these stories in my head about who they are. How accurate that is, I don’t know.”It’s the first time Campbell, whose Brooklyn shop has a client list including Courtney Love, Orlando Bloom, Marc Jacobs, Sting and Robert Downey Jr, has brought his “social experiment” to the UK, but it follows successful versions in New York and Los Angeles.“After I did the New York one, I invited everyone I’d done to dinner to say thank you,” Campbell says. “And it was amazing to get to see their faces. It was almost as if I went to Disneyland and all the characters took off their masks to reveal the people underneath.”No one has so far expressed any disappointment. And, as yet, no arm has psychically cried out for a barcode, some barbed wire or a “tribal” Maori wingding.Campbell stresses the experiment is as much for his own curiosity as the fans’. There’s no big art message he’s trying to push. “It’s been interesting,” he says. “There really is a cold-reading, horoscope kinda thing going on. So many people have told me: ‘You don’t understand – this tattoo is so me!’”Holly Gordon25, London, via InvernessBefore      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Holly Gordon: ‘I’m just pretty happy with modifying my body.’ Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianHi Holly. How long have you been standing here?I arrived about 9am.What do you think Scott’s got in store for you?I have no expectations. Whatever feels right. So long as it’s not a dick.Are you here with any friends?No, it’s just me. I haven’t even told my mates I’m gonna do this. I didn’t think I’d ever actually get a chance to have it done. The queue is huge.What would you say to people who think you’re nuts?I think it’s only scary if you haven’t had any tattoos before. I’ve already got two, so I’m just pretty happy with modifying my body.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It’s way past anything I’d ever expected.’ Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianAfterWell?Oh my God. That’s beautiful. It’s way past anything I’d ever expected.Would you do it again?Like this? I think one’s enough. It’s meant to be a unique experience, and any more wouldn’t add anything more to that.Nidhi Modi24, India      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nidhi Modi puts her arm in the hole. Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianBeforeHi Nidhi. Have you come far?Not really. I live in London. I’m a software developer and I’ve been here for two years.How do you think this tattoo is going to work with the rest of your body art? Is co-ordination important?I’ve got a big colourful peacock on the inside of my leg, so I’m hoping Scott’s black-and-white style will be an amazing contrast to that.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianAfterMarks out of 10?One hundred out of 10. It’s perfect. I was looking round the gallery at his soft flower pictures and his harder-edged stuff, and I just prayed: ‘Let him mix both of them.’ So, it was like he could read my mind.Scott’s tattoos sell for serious money. What would you now value your arm at?You couldn’t put a price on it.Chris Sexton33, Auckland, New ZealandBeforeHi Chris. What’s that tattoo on your wrist, just below Scott’s target zone?This is the date that I got married. Instead of a wedding ring, my wife and I both have the date tattooed in Roman numerals on our wrists.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chris Sexton: ‘If anyone wants to do brain surgery, I’ve got a good map now.’ Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianAfterDoes it match your expectations?It’s exactly what I wanted. When I was trying to decide whether to come, I looked at his galleries, and it was skulls all the way, so I figured I might get a skull.He trained as a biomedical illustrator.Oh, really? Well, if anyone wants to do brain surgery, I’ve got a good map now.What do you think it means?Hmmm. Love and death?Ben Harding41, LondonBeforeHi Ben. Apparently you don’t have any tattoos, and you joined the queue spontaneously when you were out in Covent Garden shopping for a jacket. What made you do that?There’s a queue. You get in it. It’s the British way.Do they think you’re having a breakdown?I don’t think it’s out of character entirely.So, you’re quite a spontaneous guy, on the whole?It’s London, isn’t it? I fall in and out of love with the place, but the beauty of it is you can be just walking down the street, then all of a sudden something like this is happening.Did you know anything about Scott Campbell before you came down today?No! But in-between queueing and having to go to be inked, I had two pints in the pub and read up on him. He seems cool.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ben Harding: ‘I secretly wanted a skull.’ Photograph: Gavin Haynes for the GuardianAfterHow do you feel about that?I feel really lucky and really privileged. I secretly really wanted a skull. And I got a skull!What’s your interpretation of it?Fuck knows.Stephanie Kim24, Chile, via the States, via BarcelonaBeforeHey Stephanie. How have you ended up here?I live in Barcelona, but I was visiting a friend in London and she told me about this.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stephanie Kim: ‘I’m just like a twig. I’m a bleeder.’ Photograph: The GuardianHave you got any other tattoos?Just “stick and poke” tattoos I make myself.You mean you just get a needle and repeatedly stab ink into yourself?That’s right. This one is Japanese lettering, meaning “guided by the moonlight”.AfterYou seem to be bleeding a lot more than the others. Are you OK?Yeah, I’m just like a twig. I’m a bleeder.What do you think Scott’s design represents?Uh, maybe life and death?