From the basslines oscillating every blade of grass, to the whirl of the fairground rides and the screams of their giddy riders, festivals are a relentlessly intense environment. At Wild Life festival in Brighton, the claggy waft of trans fats emanates from the gathering food vans, and endless crowds of jostling, hollering strangers seem immersed in a contest to decide who’s having the most epic time.How to manage mental health: the music industry's new priority “It’s auditory, it’s visual, it’s full sensory overload,” says Michelle O’Loughlin, one of the founders of Chill Welfare. For most people the manic energy is part of the buzz. With one in four adults suffering from mental illness, it’s not surprising that looking after the mental health requirements of festival-goers is fast becoming as vital as caring for their physical welfare.The aim of Chill Welfare, a social enterprise started by O’Loughlin and Katy McLeod in 2015, is to “keep people safe by reducing the harms caused by alcohol and other drugs, support mental wellbeing and promote sexual health”. They tour the country’s festivals acting as a kind of holistic buffer between the punters and the paramedics, police and security. Whether someone needs a plaster, a sick bowl, or a cup of tea and a sympathetic ear, they do whatever they can to ensure everyone stays safe and happy.All Chill Welfare’s staff – including O’Loughlin and McLeod, who have day jobs and have taken holiday to be here – are volunteers and most are either medical professionals or work in the field of drugs and substance abuse. “I got into medicine because I wanted to help people,” says Amy Reimoser, a GP and sexual health worker who is part of Chill Welfare. “I see people when they have a problem; I wanted to have the opportunity to help beforehand. If you’re a man with a mental health illness, you’re much more likely to die early. You’re more likely to smoke, more likely to abuse substances. A festival is a good chance to perhaps get hold of people like that who don’t know they have a problem.”Avoid stoner chat, Instagram and ELO: how to enjoy the festival season In this country, suicide is the biggest killer of men between the ages of 15 and 49. It is an issue close to the heart of Fred Fellowes, founder of Secret Garden Party, who has installed a tent run by Calm – the male-focused charity that exists to bring down this suicide rate – at the event for the past two years. “Most issues [with mental health at SGP] are based around issues of work or separation. Perhaps they have just split up from a relationship and feel dejected, or have problems with their colleagues at work. People tend to try to decompress or mentally escape at a festival and they can imbibe too much in an attempt to bury the core issues,” he says.“They can feel depressed and overwhelmed. Quite often men feel unable to talk to their mates, but in the Calm Zone they have someone to chat to confidentially.” Any great festival has the power to ring the changes in a person’s life – speak to most of Burning Man’s attendees and they’ll happily opine on its epiphanic qualities. But people with longstanding, serious mental health issues, such as bipolar or schizophrenia, need to give festivals careful consideration before attending.“I would absolutely say that people with serious mental health problems should have the opportunity to go to a festival,” says Tim Williams, a consultant addiction psychiatrist who has worked at the psychiatric tent at Glastonbury for two years. “But it’s important to plan ahead. They should speak to their mental health worker in advance, but also talk to the friends they’re going with. Maybe say to someone, ‘If I start to develop certain symptoms, just take me to the side and see how I’m doing.’ Familiarise yourself with the site; know where the welfare tent is.”“And when it comes to drugs, it’s a bit like a diabetic. A diabetic might go to a birthday party but they know they can’t have a piece of cake because it will send their sugar levels haywire. So there might be loads of people at a festival taking drugs, but a person with serious mental health issues should recognise it isn’t good for them.”At Wild Life this year, many who attend the Chill Welfare tent are struggling with anxiety – a condition that the charity Anxiety estimates affects one in five of us. When a group of girls arrive, all of them overwhelmed by the lights and sounds outside, they are given decaf tea and warm blankets. Then a man of 19 shuffles in suffering an anxiety attack. O’Loughlin sits with him while he breathes into a paper bag to increase the levels of carbon dioxide in his blood that he’d lost through “over-breathing”.“It’s a typical mental health scenario,” says Mcleod, “people with a recent diagnosis, feeling overwhelmed in that environment but with minimal knowledge of self-care techniques so they need support.”Although welfare areas are available at most festivals, their presence is not guaranteed the way general medical care is.“It’s a real shame,” says McLeod. “It takes the pressure off everyone – police, paramedics, security. We can deal with quite a high level of crisis.”• For mental health problems in the UK, the Samaritans can be contacted on 116 123, or visit Mind’s website. In the US, if you are in crisis or need someone to talk to, call the Samaritans branch in your area or 1 (800) 273-TALK. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is on 13 11 14. Hotlines in other countries can be found here.