BooksBut What If We’re Wrong?With the UK having just emerged from a debate over two rival versions of the future, pop culture svengali Chuck Klosterman’s new book imagines our descendants looking back on our prognostication and asking: how wrong could they be?MusicBeyoncé      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A still from Beyoncé’s LemonadeWhether her sixth album Lemonade was an important political statement or a cynical move to help the flailing Jay Z-owned Tidal, one thing is not up for debate: Beyoncé’s live shows are a marvel of dizzying dance routines, outfit changes and a voice that inspires roughly 46 thinkpieces and 128 memes every second. Her Formation world tour kicks off in Sunderland on Tuesday.Possibly CollidingNils Frahm is at the forefront of a new wave of composers melding the classical and electronic traditions. At the Barbican this weekend he’s curating two days of music by like-minded acts, including the Britten Sinfonia, Penguin Cafe and Kaitlyn Aurelia Smith.TelevisionGame Of ThronesWhat had looked like a meandering season came together in one muddy, bloody masterpiece of an episode last week. Now one final hour will tee up season seven.Revisionist HistoryMalcolm Gladwell’s engaging pop-sociology seems a perfect fit for podcasting but he’s never dipped his toe in before now. Better late than never, then. Fittingly, that’s the loose theme of this series, which sets out to challenge conventional wisdom while shining a light on overlooked events. Inventive and well-researched, it may prove just as compelling as his written work.ExhibitionsPainters’ Paintings: From Freud To Van DyckYes, we all know that Lucian Freud loved a nude and that Anthony van Dyck nailed that 17th-century, foppish Laurence Llewelyn-Bowen look, but what did these seasoned artists like to hang on their own walls, and what can those pictures tell us about their owners? A new National Gallery exhibition investigates the art that the artists admired, with further paintings from the private collections of Degas, Leighton, Watts, Lawrence and Reynolds.ComedyEdinburgh previews      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest If you’ve ever had the inclination to be a lab rat for a comedian, then now’s your chance. For the next month, across the country (though largely in London), the nation’s best gagsmiths will be tuning up their material for the Edinburgh fringe. Among the options this week include the tipped Birthday Girls, Dane Baptiste, Aisling Bea, Ivo Graham and the one-and-only Paul Foot.FilmOppenheimer: Early WorksTwo of this decade’s most stimulating films, in any genre, have been Joshua Oppenheimer’s documentaries The Act Of Killing and The Look Of Silence. They both aim to tell the same hidden story: the mass political murder that took place in Indonesia in the 1960s. But they do so via wondrous cinematography and the now-fabled conceit of persuading those who took part to recreate their actions. For the first time, you can now watch Oppenheimer’s early films; a DVD release letting you see how he mastered his craft.Messages HomeThis Channel 4 doc explores a heartbreaking cache of films recently found in a Manchester basement. Dispatches from the brutal Burmese campaign, these messages from second world war soldiers to their loved ones include a new father speaking to a daughter he had yet to meet and a man tormented by the idea of killing. A moving angle on an often-neglected aspect of the war.TheatreThe Mighty WalzerIt’s a question many young men have to confront at some point: women or wiff-waff? And that’s the dilemma facing the table tennis-loving protagonist in this play, the Royal Exchange Theatre’s adaptation of Howard Jacobson’s novel. Expect urbane social observation and a little saucy humour to boot.