If you’ve found out something remarkable, then perhaps the greatest way to celebrate it is to run naked down the street, proclaiming it to the neighbours. What the neighbours might proclaim back is anyone’s guess. But Archimedes probably couldn’t have cared less. He was said to have joyfully leaped out of his bath after discovering his own principle, or law of hydrostatics, that the buoyant force exerted a body immersed in water is equal to the weight of the water it displaces. So as well as having a very wet floor, who knows later how he celebrated, and what the neighbours thought, when he invented the Archimedes screw?This week’s highly proclamatory theme is ideal for song, because when we discovery something, it’s only natural to sing out about it. And what more exciting discovery would there be than that of alien life? While the world is a flutter (and did so in their millions on the Guardian site this week) with the confirmation images of water being on Mars, not thousands of years ago, but now, alien microbes must surely exist in those gloopy, salty streaks somewhere. Unless of course we have accidentally contaminated and deposited them with a rover. Oh what an irony that would be. It’s a bit like looking for your reading glasses for ages, only to discover they are on your head all the time.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Talking Heads, CBGB, New York 1977. Creating songs by playful discovery. Photograph: GODLIS/Publicity image“Mistakes are the portals of discovery,” said James Joyce. And the same could be said for the discovery of songs. Many bands uncover great riffs, or songwriters their lyrics, simply by accident. Talking Heads, for example, would jam for hours and record it all, later listening back to use the great bits they stumbled upon. But accidental discovery might far more frequently be expressed in lyrics as form.Discovery might be a lone act, and especially when in secret, could cover all kinds of subjects, from finding that lost fiver in your pocket, to the horror of finding our a secret affair, or that you are adopted, or that you have a long lost twin. So much literature, film and many other genres are fuelled by plots that hinge about discoveries, and can be also as much about worry or paranoia that you’ll discover something secret in your or others’ personal life - rocket fuel for any song. So phrases such as “I’ll find out” may feature highly. Perhaps one of the most emotional moments of this in any film is when, in Mike Leigh’s Secrets and Lies, Cynthia, played by Brenda Blethyn discovers, through the intervention of a woman called Hortense, that she has another daughter.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Secrets and Lies. A revelatory discovery.Yet discoveries can multiply in intensity when even more people get in on it, especially when finding a lot of money is involved. It is a poison that spreads. From Sam Raimi’s A Simple Plan to The Coen brothers’ No Country For Old Men, the inevitable will always happen, that the discovery of untold wealth will upset the apple cart and lead to chaos. There are also many songs that reflect the spilling of such harmful secrets from what starts out as a seemingly lucky discovery, I’ll bet on it.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Javier Bardem discovers what might happen next with a scary coin toss in No Country For Old Men. No good ever comes when someone finds a load of cash. It’s better not to knowSome discoveries however are collaborative, but happen independently. Charles Darwin gained all the glory for his theory of evolution, but very similar revelations were simultaneously discovered by Alfred Russel Wallace. But with next week’s Nobel prizes coming up, it’s good to point out that acclaim is sometimes awarded jointly. The 2011 physics prize was jointly awarded to Saul Perlmutter, Adam G. Riess and Brian P. Schmidt for the separate 1998 discovery of the accelerating expansion of the universe through observations of distant supernovae. Now that’s what I call looking hard.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A bronze statue of Ares or Mars, discovered at the Zeugma archaeological sight in Gaziantep, southeastern Turkey in 2000. Imagine uncovering that in a dark hole ... Photograph: Haluk Baylan/APNot merely with science, simultaneous discovery has happened continuously through history in every form, whether with fossils, bones, treasure, evidence, designs, innovations, technology, and all kinds of ideas popping up in different, seemingly unconnected places. It’s as if a zeitgeist cloud has sprinkled the same magic dust at random across the world, seeding ideas as it goes. It’s as if a benign chaotic butterfly seems to have been flapping its wings, leading many people to think up the same things. In the same way Readers Recommend commenters might, quite incredibly, suggest the same songs sometimes, but hey – that’s also the joy of discovery. We can all be geniuses sometimes.So then, this week we have not one, but unusually, two superb seekers keeping a keen eye on your discovery songs. Are they like detectives Holmes and Watson, or perhaps Dempsey and Makepeace? Or intrepid explorers separately finding land, like Marco Polo or Lief Erikson? However they do it, discover they will, so let us welcome back the deft delving of DarceysDad working jointly alongside the forensic forestry of treefrogdemon. Put your discoveries in comments below, and optionally in Spotify by last orders (11pm BST) on Monday 5 October for their results list published on Thursday 8 October. Now go forth and dig for treasure.To increase the likelihood of your nomination being considered, please:• Tell us why it’s a worthy contender.• Quote lyrics if helpful, but for copyright reasons no more than a third of a song’s words.• Provide a link to the song. We prefer Muzu or YouTube, but Spotify or SoundCloud are fine.• Listen to others people’s suggestions and add yours to a collaborative Spotify playlist.• If you have a good theme for Readers recommend, or if you’d like to volunteer to compile a playlist from readers’ suggestions, please email peter.kimpton@theguardian.com• There’s a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are “zedded”, at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of “zedded”, “donds” and other strange words used by RR regulars.• Many RR regulars also congregate at the ‘Spill blog.