In five words Our motto: swalpa adjust maadi.**It literally means “please adjust a little”, and is used often in daily life. Sound of the cityApart from the central business districts and the roads that lead up to them, Bangalore’s neighbourhoods are mostly quiet, especially the older parts. You will still find street vendors with carts ambling along in the mornings and evenings selling fresh fruit and vegetables. Then there are rubbish collectors – those that buy old newspapers and send them for recycling – men with decorated bulls seeking alms (because bulls are holy too), young boys selling plants and organic eggs from nearby villages. They all have a very unique way of calling out their wares and until you learn to recognise their sounds, it is hard to understand what they are selling.Here is a stitched-together collection of the sounds I hear from my balcony every day: squirrels running up the huge jacaranda tree that overlooks my house, the owner of a bull blowing a trumpet and the shrill horn of the trash collecting van.Best building      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   High-rise … the VV Towers. Photograph: Prashanth ChavanCharles Correa, one of India’s best known architects, is legendary for designing buildings with an unusual mix of modernist aesthetics and local contexts. The Visvesvaraya Towers (or VV Towers) house several government departments. With no other high-rise buildings around, the towers stand alone against Bangalore’s bright blue skies.And the worst      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The ‘try-hard’ Halcyon Complex. Photograph: Deepa BhasthiThe Halcyon Complex is on St Mark’s Road in the central business district. It was designed by Vivek Shankar who once worked with architect Zaha Hadid in her London office.Built in 2007, the complex houses a bank, some shops and a well-known pub. I sometimes pass by it on the way to my favourite watering hole, Scottish Pub. (There is nothing even remotely Scottish about that place, but they make the most amazing peas masala to go with the watered-down beer.) The Halycon Complex is admittedly different to the glass façade buildings that are taking over the city these days but its design is, for me, a case of trying too hard – and failing. Homegrown talent    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Agam, a carnatic, progressive rock band, is one of many in the city. They mix healthy doses of rock with classical sounds – carnatic is a system of classical music commonly associated with south Indian states. But fusion isn’t a label they particularly like. Made up of mostly software professionals who juggle an increasingly popular music career, they frequently have gigs in several large cities in India.The look on the streetHow green is your city?Bangalore was once known for how green it was, with parks in every neighbourhood. Cubbon Park and Lalbagh, both of which still dominate the city’s landscape, offer what urban planners call “lung space”. The city is still greener than most other metropolises in the country, but the air pollution levels have been increasing to dangerous levels, mimicking global trends. The city traffic is notorious; the congested roads are a constant topic of discontent. Plastic was recently banned in the state, but waste management remains one of the biggest civic problems, and no amount of begging people to segregate waste into wet and dry at source seems to be helping.Most under-rated location      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Finding calm in a crowded place … Tipu Palace. Photograph: Pradeep K STipu Sultan’s Summer Palace, which dates back to the late 1700s, is in the middle of the most crowded and busiest markets in the city. It is a beautiful piece of Indo-Islamic architecture complete with beautiful pillars and intricate motifs. Though it does see some visitors, it mostly falls through the cracks. I wonder if it is to do with the large, milling crowds just outside at the Kalasipalya and Krishnaraja markets, which can deter even the most enthusiastic resident or visitor from peeping in.Biggest controversyThe high value of, and demand for, real estate has led to encroachment onto lake beds and land grabbing. Of the 300-odd city lakes in the 16th century when it was founded, just over a dozen survive today – Bangalore has gone from being almost self-sufficient to facing an acute water crisis. The complex story of the lakes is the biggest running controversy because no one seems to be doing much about it. Fish kills are a regular feature every summer, as is the fact that one of the biggest lakes foams, spills onto the roads and catches fire.Best Instagram accountTrelltalebangalore is one of many aggregator handles, but I like how it consistently finds the best stories in Bangalore. There are several food pictures – we love our street food – but then there are beautiful sunsets and dreamy buildings too.Moment in history In the mid-1980s, multinational information technology companies began to start setting up offices in Bangalore, mainly because they were not yet welcome in neighbouring states. Texas Instruments was the first IT company to set up shop, in 1985. Starting then and continuing all through the heady IT boom in the 1990s, hundreds of IT companies were established in the city, earning Bangalore the sobriquet of the Silicon Valley of India. The software industry remains among the largest in the country and still drives a very big chunk of the city’s economy.Best local artistAlicia Souza is an illustrator based in the city who regularly models her adorable illustrations – uploaded every morning on Instagram – on herself and her dog, Charlie. Her illustrations celebrate brief moments in a day, adventures with her dog, festivals, relationships and a smörgåsbord of her life and work. Given how extensively she collaborates with different – often slightly kitsch – brands, it is hard to miss Alicia’s work if you are out shopping.Insider’s tip      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   One of the sweet treats served up by Iyengar bakeries. Photograph: Deepa BhasthiLook out for an Iyengar’s Bakery, a generic term we use for small neighbourhood bakeries that sell a variety of snacks – biscuits, pastries, savouries and fresh baked bread. Ask for the honey cake, sold in neatly cut pieces with a dollop of cream on top of the jam icing. You want the base to be slightly burnt. It’s spongy on top and gets very juicy towards the base. Though I suspect they don’t use any honey in it.What does Bangalore do better than anywhere else?Bangalore is a new city, in that it began to grow uncontrollably from a big town only after the IT boom in the 1990s. So there is a very laid-back attitude compared to other metropolises. The city just lets you be – whether you want to chill and take things nice and slow, run the rat race, or something in between. Meetings over coffee can stretch over the entire day and end with locally brewed beer (microbreweries are all the rage right now), visits to the many second-hand bookshops can (and will) take hours, and we will not stop talking about the famous Bangalore weather. We do laid-back very well. Too well sometimes.Five to followGurpreet KaurLBB, BangaloreSrujanaKiran JonnalagaddaGeetha Bharathi BhatFrom me      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Deepa Bhasthi Photograph: Deepa BhasthiDeepa Bhasthi is a writer and independent journalist. She is also part of Forager Collective and edits The Forager magazine, an online journal on food politics.She blogs here. You can follow her on Instagram and Twitter.Follow Guardian Cities on Twitter and Facebook and join the discussion