Handing out peeragesIt is customary for hosts of parties to give presents to those without whom a lavish function would not have been possible.Political parties are no different, with a seat in the House of Lords making the perfect show of gratitude. Few gestures of kindness testify to enduring friendship like a donation being rewarded with a peerage.It would be inappropriate – and technically illegal – for money to change hands for a seat in the legislature.For that reason, party donors are expected to wait for a decorous period between losing their money and gaining their fur-lined robes. This hiatus is called the Erminterlude.Seats in the upper chamber are not just for wealthy political financiers. They also make tasteful consolation prizes for politicians who are coming to the end of their elected careers and want to continue legislating without the bother of seeking permission from voters.When handing out lordships to friends and benefactors, it is good practice to include a few people whose dedication to public service is beyond dispute.Their expertise justifies the existence of an unelected upper chamber so their numbers must be topped up from time to time.Fortunately, these worthy appointments need not impede the ennoblement of old chums.There is no limit to the number of peers there can be and party leaders usually run out of friends before they run out of favours to hand out.When it is OK to frackThere is much confusion about the merits of "fracking" – the process of extracting shale gas by pumping water deep underground and fracturing layers of rock in which the precious stuff is trapped. It is either the salvation of Britain's economy or an act of reckless environmental vandalism.The first rule when choosing one of those positions is to ignore the full range of evidence. It is inconclusive and so too confusing to be helpful. Choose just one small piece of evidence to support an instinctive prejudice and cling to it for intellectual comfort.The second rule is that the economic merit of a fracking site increases in proportion to its distance away from a Conservative-held parliamentary seat. The ideal location is somewhere bleak and desolate. This can be calculated according to the formula developed by Lord Howell:Desolation = (size of Labour majority/number of golf clubs) x miles from Kensington [squared]Some Conservatives may be torn between suspicion of fracking and hope that it means fewer wind turbines. To settle on a definitive view, it is advisable to wait and see what position is taken at a European Union level on the desirability of fracking in order confidently to believe the opposite.When it is OK to frack (II)The phonetic similarity between the verb "to frack" and a common obscenity has been noted and adequately exploited by headline writers and columnists. The joke is over. The well is now dry. It is time to shut the frack up.Sticking the knife inGeorge Mudie, the veteran Labour MP and former junior minister, has furnished a masterclass in the delicate art of political knifing. Mudie said his party was "hesitant" and "confused" and that it is failing to set the agenda or offer a strong alternative to the government.Observe the subtlety of criticism that is not directed explicitly at the party leader, yet describes failures that can only be attributed to him. It is vague enough to resist clear rebuttal, yet specific enough to avoid any doubt at its injurious intent. According to time-honoured tradition, the blow was delivered in the quiet summer months when a small intervention by a relatively obscure figure is amplified by the shortage of other political news.This was not the act of an assassin, just a warning cut. The traditional Westminster knifing is administered firmly to the back or, occasionally, to the front. The glancing blow to the side is an underrated genre.Rafael Behr