The “comic timing, ironic self-deprecating and very British charm” of Hugh Grant has been celebrated by the British Film Institute which on Tuesday evening bestowed on him its highest honour.Grant was given a BFI fellowship, following in the footsteps of British actors who include Judi Dench, Ralph Fiennes, John Hurt, Elizabeth Taylor and Sir Michael Caine.The BFI said Grant, with films such as Four Weddings and a Funeral and Notting Hill, had “redefined the British leading man for a generation”.Its chairman, Greg Dyke, said: “With impeccable comic timing and huge doses of his unique, ironic self-deprecating and very British charm, Hugh always pulls off the hardest thing of all – a seemingly effortless performance. I can assure you it’s not. “Hugh’s acting talents are prodigious and his contribution to cinema enormous. He is a British icon and has been making literally billions of people all over the world laugh, cry – and fall in love with him of course – for over 30 years.”Grant often plays down his talents as an actor and his response to the award was modest: “This is such a lovely surprise,” he said. “And a great honour and I’m very grateful to the BFI for thinking of me.”The fellowship was presented at a dinner in London by the film producer and co-chairman of Working Title, Eric Fellner. He said: “Hugh is one of those extraordinary British actors whose effortless performance and onscreen charm has endeared him to generations of audiences worldwide. “His success has helped British film as a whole carve out a place in the world with a distinct quality that easily rivals the best to come out of Hollywood and other countries. For that contribution alone he deserves this remarkable honour from the BFI.”Grant’s first major film role was, for some, one of his finest, as the handsome upper-class Englishman repressing his homosexuality in Maurice. That won him a best actor award at the Venice film festival, shared with James Wilby, who played the title role.He went on to star in Ken Russell’s Lair of the White Worm, Roman Polanski’s Bitter Moon and then, in 1994, his breakthrough role in Mike Newell’s Four Weddings and a Funeral.There have been some duds – Did You Hear About the Morgans? – but there has also been the two Bridget Jones movies and About a Boy. He will next be seen alongside Meryl Streep in Stephen Frears’ film about a deluded opera singer, Florence Foster Jenkins.More recently Grant has been vocal in his anger over phone hacking, appearing as a witness at the Leveson inquiry.