A couple of weeks ago I read Allan Hennessy’s piece: The disabled community still waits for the 1960s sexual revolution. Though I found the article to be very interesting and well written, one word in the title made me cringe: the word “waits”.Revolution (from the Latin revolutio, “a turn around”) is a fundamental change that takes place when a population rises up in revolt against the current authorities. So a revolution cannot be waited for.The disabled community still waits for our 1960s sexual revolution The flower power time of the 60s was about much more than sex. It was about love, peace, freedom and gender equality, but sex became the barometer. Hennessey states that people with a disability are often portrayed as sexually non-participative in society. As a barometer, this means that the revolution for equality of people with a disability still has a long way to go. According to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, Eurostat and national sources, the gaps are evident. The employment rate for people with a disability is 40% – versus 75% for those without.  Let’s not wait for the revolution, let’s create it and see the barometer rise There are an estimated one billion people in the world with a disability, many with children, so to think all of these don’t have sex is at the very least, an ignorant and foolish notion. In Maslow’s hierarchy of needs, sex is in various layers but is also included at the bottom base of the pyramid, ranking equal to food. The fact that independence of an individual is affected does not mean that the need is too.In 1981, I became a paraplegic following a fall from a tree. I was 14 at the time and just at the start of my own sexual revolution. I remember that my cravings did not change, but my confidence did. But instead of shying away or waiting for answers, I quickly learned that it was my responsibility to put people at ease about my disability.Disabled people are frustrated at being denied the chance to work Fear of the unknown is a logical phenomenon and with such a plethora of disability types we can hardly expect everyone to know it all. So for the revolution to succeed we need to continuously educate, demonstrate and mitigate to avoid us all being lumped together in a pile of prejudice and want. And this applies to the subject of sex too.Out on the road there will be near misses and inevitable crashes, but the carmaker Henry Ford said: “Failure is only the opportunity to begin again, this time more intelligently.” On a mini-scale, sex and relationships became a barometer of my overall revolution; that of overcoming my disability. Translated to a much grander, global scale, if we all push the boundaries of our own revolutions, then the collective momentum will gather speed and improve inclusion. Just as we have seen progression and acceptance of interracial sex and same-gender sex, we will slowly move into an era where disability-sex is considered natural too. We are what we are. But what we do defines us But to push the boundaries of what that means, we rely on role models and artists to combat perception and resistance. The 2012 film The Sessions with John Hawkes and Helen Hunt, in which a man with an iron lung wishes to lose his virginity to a professional sex surrogate, had an estimated budget of $1m (£0.76m) and made $6m (£4.5m) in its first year. The IMDB score was 7.2 and judging by the reviews, people could relate to the story whether they were disabled or not. Ben Lewin, a polio survivor and writer/director of The Sessions said “there is an interesting disability-chic movement”.Other films such as Untouchable by Olivier Nakache and Eric Toledano and Gabrielle by Louise Archambault explore disability and sex. And books such as Death Comes Twice, self-published by the Belgian author Faas Kramer; an erotic thriller in which successful and desirable people in wheelchairs get murdered. All of these creators have disabilities themselves and apply their experiences to write about what they know, purposely pushing the borders of acceptance and normality. I greatly encourage this. Not because I have a disability fetish, but because love and sex is natural.The greatest business advice I ever received was when my regional CEO called me into his office one day in 2008 and expressed his concern that I was “unusually quiet”. He said to me: “Remember to always take the initiative.” My disability is no excuse for waiting. Nor should it be an excuse for anyone else. We are what we are. But what we do defines us. Let’s not wait for the revolution, let’s create it and see the barometer rise. Increasing the level of understanding raises the level of normality, which in turn opens up the notion that everyone has some form of disability. This is a comfort, not a threat.Servaas Kamerling is founder and director of in-Fusion, a company that strives to make society more balanced, more economically viable and more inclusive of persons with a disability. He is a Paralympic gold-medal winner and a former president of a multinational electronics corporation.Please get in touch with your experiences, comments and stories about disability rights issues; email us at globaldevpros@theguardian.com, with disability rights in the subject line. Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow@GuardianGDP on Twitter. Join the conversation with the hashtag #DisabilityRights