I really ought to be in a good position to interview Louis Theroux. “Ought” being the operative word here. Because, in theory, I have genuine insider information: I knew him before he was famous. These days, he has a proto-beard and what could be designer specs and legions of dedicated fans and groupies – when I look through his Twitter feed, I find a photo of someone with a tattoo of his face on their leg – but when I first met him he was 18 years old, had thick glasses, greasy hair and all the sexual charisma of a young Bamber Gascoigne.So I ought to be in a good position, but as I fight off another question about myself, and try to get the interview on to the topic in hand – him – I realise with a lurching panic that perhaps I haven’t thought this through. Because while he interviews people, at length, with a leisurely this-could-take-days approach, I’ve been granted a miserly hour and there are all sorts of things getting in the way: events of the two and a half decades since I saw him last, the fate of various friends-in-common, social niceties and, most cripplingly, I realise, the fundamental problem of interviewing an interviewer – they know all the tricks. The deflection devices, the steering-the-conversation-another-way technique, the old ask-a-question-before-you-can-be-asked-a-question strategy… he knows them all, dammit.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  My Scientology Movie: trailer for Louis Theroux’s documentary – videoAnd the one thing I do know about Louis is that, despite appearances, perhaps, he’s not an open book. I canvassed the opinions of various friends, I tell him, to ask them what they remembered about him and the word which came back was “inscrutable”.“Really? I think I’m the most scrutable person going!”“You don’t think you have a certain… detachment?”“We were friends, weren’t we?”“Well, yes, but I didn’t know you…”“Who is scrutable? I mean I like the idea of being inscrutable. But… maybe I kept people at arm’s length a little bit. I think of myself as being quite affable, approachable, fairly easy to get to know. I don’t totally recognise the characterisation of inscrutable, but it’s possible I kept people at arm’s length a bit.”And it’s this, I think afterwards, that maybe explains his success as an interviewer: his ability to get close to people without losing his outsider’s edge – his detachment.“I think I have a slight fear of intimacy. That’s the thing I would say on that. That explains it, doesn’t it? I have a slight fear of intimacy, and I think, that’s partly why I do the work that I do. It’s a safe form of intimacy in which I’m professionally accountable, but I’m not, in a sense. I mean, obviously, I am personally accountable, but it feels there’s a sort of emotional prophylactic.”There’s a scene in a recent film he made about alcoholics, Drinking to Oblivion, where Joe, a desperate young man needing treatment, checks himself out of the clinic and hotfoots it down the street. I watched that, I say, thinking I’d have found it hard not to have gone running down the road after him.“I didn’t feel tempted to chase him down the street. It was, obviously, awkward. It was an emotionally difficult moment.”And it’s this, when he, and his films, are at their best – in their emotionally difficult moments. He has the ability of being present but holding back, a quality which I realise is there again in the clashes he has with his main interview subject, Marty Rathbun, a high-profile ex-Scientologist, who is at the heart of his latest and most ambitious film, My Scientology Movie.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cult film:My Scientology Movie is Theroux’s first theatrical feature-length work. Photograph: Flat Creek Films/BBC WorldwideIt’s something of a landmark for Theroux because he’s been making documentaries for the BBC since 1998 and has won awards and critical praise and garnered a fervent and loyal fanbase, but, in the intervening years, documentaries have transformed from niche programmes on TV to big-budget cinema features, and this is his first ever theatrical feature-length work.“Does it feel like a big deal?”“Yes. It’s a whole new way of working. At every stage it felt like a bit of a leap in the dark. And there was much, much more money involved.” 'It felt like a bit of a leap in the dark. And there was much, much more money involved' There was also the not insignificant problem of the fact that he had no access. The church is notoriously press shy and in the absence of a real David Miscavige (the leader of Scientology) or a real Tom Cruise (its most famous follower) he and Marty Rathbun, who was once the organisation’s inspector general, recruited actors to re-enact scenes Rathbun witnessed. They auditioned a dozen David Miscaviges and a whole load of Tom Cruises, and Rathbun comes alive as the faux-Miscavige pins Theroux up against the wall and grabs him by the throat, just as, he says, Miscavige once did to him.In some ways, it feels like Nick Broomfield by way of The Act of Killing, I tell him – the Oscar-winning documentary by Joshua Oppenheimer which featured an Indonesian general re-enacting scenes of mass murder.“I’m going to pick on the Nick Broomfield thing, not that I don’t admire him, but we didn’t want it to look like it’s a pale imitation of Nick Broomfield, where because you don’t have access, you’re in danger of doing a film about door-knocking, or making calls on the mobile from the hotel room. The world doesn’t need another Nick Broomfield. We also looked at filming undercover, but that felt like a sort of betrayal of something essential about what I do, which is that it should be in good faith.”Instead, the lack of access forced them to come up with a more creative approach. “And then the idea of re-enactments came up and it sort of clicked, because of it being Hollywood. And The Act of Killing was a tipping point because, in that, it didn’t feel like a gimmick or a stunt. It’s actually a way of drawing more out of the contributors, almost like therapeutic role play.”The result is like a heightened, slightly stoned version of a regular Louis Theroux documentary. It has all the hallmarks of a classic Theroux, but with added surrealism. It’s absurd and funny – Theroux filming the Scientologists filming him – and it’s already a hit: the film with live broadcast Q&A is due to play in 200 cinemas nationwide, many of which have already sold out. In some ways, I say, you’re trolling Scientology. “You wanted to get a reaction from them, didn’t you?”“I argue with the term trolling.”“Prodding, then?”“Yes, prodding. I mean, in a sense, there hasn’t been a film about Scientology that hasn’t, if you wanted to characterise it unkindly, trolled Scientology. It’s in their tech – their teachings, they call it tech – that if they are, as they see it, attacked, they fight back. Did I know? I mean, I more than knew, of course, I slightly hoped they would come and harass and surveil us and follow us around with private investigators. It’s what makes them so extraordinary, as a religion: their willingness to not only turn the other cheek, but to actually slap back.”The church has been on his radar for years, but he could never quite figure out a way to do it, and in its examination of a weird, American cult, it’s in the vein of many of his earlier works, from his first television outings on Michael Moore’s TV Nation to his first BBC series which followed, Weird Weekends. The last time I saw him was in New York, nanoseconds before he got the job on TV Nation, and actually pre-fame Louis and post-fame Louis are pretty much the same Louis. He’s one of that rare breed of people who seem the same onscreen as they do off and even with the Bamber Gascoigne hair do, he was still funny and charismatic back then – with the strange demi-fame of having a famous father, the writer Paul Theroux. It was no surprise at all that while the rest of us were still waiting tables or trying to figure out what to do with our lives, he went off and became a cult TV star.Though, at the time, I assumed he’d find fame as a writer. He was a natural and, a quarter of a century on, I’m able to quote a piece of student journalism he wrote back at him. “You used to dissolve a packet of ProPlus in a mug of coffee before you went to bed,” I remind him, “set your alarm clock, drink it, fall back to sleep, and wake up bolt upright 15 minutes later.” Until, he wrote, he learned that Elvis did the same. Shortly before he died on the toilet, aged 42.“I was always attracted and repelled by the idea of being a writer,” he says. “I both admired my father and his writing and I saw how much he valued it. And, he used to tell me, growing up: ‘I’m reading your letters and I’ve seen it, whatever it is, you’ve got it.’ I was literally about 14 or 15 and the letters definitely had no evidence of natural writing ability, but I remember him giving me the talk: ‘You’ve got the keys to the kingdom.’ And feeling flattered and kind of frightened. It was slightly paralysing. He still takes me aside and says: ‘Have you thought about writing something longer?’ And in some ways I want to live up to that and, in another way, I want to run a million miles.”And anyway, he says, “success came more easily through television. Whether through any natural ability or just through a large dose of very good luck that I was hired for a job, early on, where I was just on camera.”I wonder if this has had its own toll, in a way. Success came so easily to him at such a young age and he’s not just been Louis Theroux all this time, he’s also, in a sense, played him; performed him. It’s one of the more arresting scenes in the film when Marty Rathbun takes issue with the way Theroux commands a group of young actors who are playing Scientology recruits. “That’s mind control,” he rails. “I don’t want to be any part of it. They all went and followed this new cult leader – the Louis Theroux cult.”There are a lot of different levels to it, but the dynamics of fame, and its corollary, power, have always come into Theroux’s work. Reading his previous interviews and reviews, there’s a familiar narrative that’s told about him, how he’s gradually sloughed off the comic quirkiness of his early Theroux work to become the more mature filmmaker of his mid-Theroux years. In recent times he’s made films about alcoholics and dementia and transgender children. But I’m not sure it’s actually true. He’s spoken out about his “failure” to unmask Jimmy Savile in the programme he made about him, but the only reason we knew how weird and odd Jimmy Savile was, was as a result of that film.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   When Louis Met Jimmy: ‘What I’ve had to get my head around is the fact that I grew to like him’. Photograph: Justin Evans/BBC TWOWhen Louis Met Jimmy was Theroux’s first full-length television profile, made all the way back in 2000, and at the time it was broadcast it was a revelation. And it still is now. As was his film on Max Clifford. In hindsight, phone hacking, media manipulation, power networks and paedophilia were some of the biggest stories that never managed to be told of the 90s and early 2000s, and no one got closer to them than Theroux. I’ve rewatched both in recent times and the moment when Theroux is in Jimmy Savile’s mother’s bedroom is properly jaw-dropping TV.“I was sort of relieved when I went and watched it again, within the space of weeks after Mark Williams-Thomas’s programme [on Savile] came out. And it’s not the cuddly portrait of an eccentric. But then as much as I’d like to think that I got Jimmy Savile right, I didn’t imagine him to be capable of those crimes. And what I’ve had to get my head around is the fact that I grew to like him. I kept friendly relations with him for a few years after making the programme.”Savile gulled him as he gulled the nation, and the hows and whys of that are the subject of a new Theroux film, a sequel to the original, called Louis Theroux: Savile.“I’ve had to revisit that and think about that. Who was he? How much of the person that I thought I knew was real? And you have to re-evaluate and unpick a lot of memories and think about that. I mean, I knew I never quite got his number. I knew there was an aspect of his life to do with his sexual interests that remained opaque to me.”And I can’t help bringing up a comment he made more than a decade ago, in reference to the Savile film, about how he’s been drawn to some of his interview subjects as something like father figures.“Right. Did I say that? Yes, I did, I think. I remember.”I can’t help asking it because the dynamics of the Theroux family, much of which has been played out in public, are endlessly fascinating. In 1989, while still married to Louis’ mother, Anne, Paul Theroux published a novel about a fictional writer who travelled the world seeking erotic encounters and having affairs. They divorced shortly after. And Marcel Theroux, Louis’ brother, who combines the family professions by being both a novelist and a documentary maker, has talked in interviews about how they’d taunt each other, both claiming the other was “Jack”, the “depressing, sad, dusty figure” who was the character’s fictional son.“I just thought it was interesting,” I say, “because these particular interview subjects – Savile and Clifford – are very charismatic, as your father is, but they’re also classic unreliable narrators. And in that sense your father was, too.”“Yes… in a sense, I suppose. But he’s also a very nice man. I’m sure it’s not different from a lot of relationships people have with their parents except that these works, his secret life, is present in his books. Both as a writer, as a traveller and then, also, I suppose, someone who, it turns out, wasn’t in a committed relationship.”Perhaps, but it helps shine a light, maybe, on why he’s been drawn to individuals who also have a hidden life. He didn’t get to hold David Miscavige to account in My Scientology Movie. Nobody can. He hasn’t done an interview since 1998. And while the film is a jokier, quirkier, more screwball take on Scientology than Alex Gibney’s recent Going Clear, it feels like there’s also an emotional truth lurking there.The laconic persona that Theroux projects on screen, the jokes and the gags, the affable asides, are, maybe, a diversion: he’s also serving up the darkness at the heart of Scientology, too. And I wonder if we’ll look back on it in the future as we look back on the Savile and Clifford films now. That he nearly got there.My Scientology Movie is in cinemas from 7 October. On 10 October there is a special screening of the film followed by an evening with Louis Theroux, broadcast live from the Royal Festival Hall to participating cinemas. For details, check myscientologymovie.filmLouis Theroux: Savile is on BBC2 at 9pm on 2 October