Apples are everywhere: red, golden and green baubles hang from my allotment trees, the scent of the fallen ones drunkenly filling the air. At this time of year it is easy to see how apples have taken on such importance in our autumnal traditions and folklore: it is very much the end of the growing season, and my trees groan with fruit, which in stark contrast to the rest of my crops was produced almost effortlessly. They will easily store deep into winter with no fancy equipment required, and will provide hot puddings when other homegrown produce is long gone. To our ancestors they must have seemed sent from the gods, or at the very least worth revering and celebrating. I am currently crowdfunding the creation of an annual Almanac, a book that will celebrate the distinctiveness of each moment in the year, in part through food, foraging, folklore and festivities. So my mind is very much on apples and the games and traditions – not to mention the crumbles - that they inspire.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘To our ancestors apples must have seemed sent from the gods, or at the very least worth revering and celebrating.’ Photograph: Graeme Robertson for the GuardianTo the Celts, apples were the fruit of the other world, of Avalon, the Isle of Apples. Their association with magic may stem from their abundance at the festival of Samhain which falls on the cusp of October and November, very much the pre-Christian precursor of Hallowe’en. At Samhain it was believed that the veil between the worlds of the living and the dead was thinned, and it was a time to convene with ancestors, and to tell the future. Apples became associated with magic and divination, which manifested into traditions such as apple bobbing, once used to peer into the future. Girls of a village would dunk for apples, each of which had the initial of a suitable local young man carved into it: the one you got between your teeth was the one you were going to end up with. Another related custom had the young woman paring an apple of its skin and then hurling it over her shoulder: the peel would fall in the shape of the first letter of the name of her husband to be. Apple Day celebrations on and around October 21 (check local orchards for exact dates: my allotment site’s community orchard is holding theirs on the October 16) will provide many opportunities to see children soaked from the shoulders up, enthusiastically hurling themselves into reenacting this ancient tradition without a thought for Avalon, the ancestors or a future spouse. It is a thread that reaches pleasingly back through time, a sign that we have not lost all connection with our landscape and with the magic and ritual once invested in our major crops.Lia Leendertz’s crowdfunding for The New Almanac is under way at https://unbound.com/books/the-new-almanac. Guardian readers can get £5 off of any of the rewards by using the code guardian16.