“I explained it when I danced it,” Margot Fonteyn supposedly said when asked what one of her performances meant. For the renowned ballerina, there was no need for exposition and analysis, she let her body do the talking.How does it work for audiences? How much does it matter what you know about a performance and its creator before you see it? At this year’s Dance Umbrella festival, those questions are being tested. The opening show, Unknown Pleasures, features five new commissions whose choreographers’ identities will remain top secret. Audiences will know nothing about the works before they are staged, except that the creators are a mix of big names and newcomers, male and female, local and international, and all the pieces are being performed by French company Ballet de Lorraine.It’s not an entirely new idea. The Royal Court has staged Surprise Theatre performances, where audiences turned up with no idea what they were about to see. “It was just really, surprisingly glorious,” says the Court’s executive producer Lucy Davies. “You knew it was going to be an hour long but otherwise you had no baggage to bring to it, so it made for a really extraordinary atmosphere in the auditorium.”But the idea goes against the grain in arts marketing, as venues increasingly provide preview trailers, rehearsal clips and artist interviews for audiences to watch in advance. Dance companies rely on familiar titles to bring in audiences. A savvy choreographer such as Matthew Bourne puts their own name into titles, because it’s their reputation that sells tickets. Wayne McGregor recently changed the name of his company, from Random Dance to Company Wayne McGregor, capitalising on the same thing.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dominic North (Leo) and Ashley Shaw (Aurora) in Sleeping Beauty by Matthew Bourne at Sadler’s Wells in 2015. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianTo cut out the choreographer altogether is a brave step, but for Dance Umbrella director Emma Gladstone, it’s less a risk than an opportunity. “Often in contemporary dance we’re asking people to take a leap anyway,” she says. A lack of knowledge about the art form can stop audiences from coming to dance, so Gladstone wanted to free them from worrying about what they didn’t know. “I’m hoping this will liberate people to come and watch without feeling they need to know the history of an artist. They can just see what they take from it.” She’s hoping it will also be a chance for the five choreographers to experiment, unfettered by expectations. “If you could leave your identity behind, what would you make?” she asks.Freedom from expectation sounds like a good goal, but findings in psychology suggest that if we want to maximise our enjoyment of something, then context and expectations are exactly what we need. Recent research from Goldsmiths University showed that spectators who were given specific information about the creation process of a new piece of dance reported higher enjoyment levels when watching it. Goldsmiths cognitive psychologist Guido Orgs explains that for many viewers, expectations of dance – as a series of virtuosic moves set to music – can impede engagement with more experimental work. “Explaining the creative process of dance to spectators can help [them] to give up these dance ‘prototypes’ and allows them to base their aesthetic judgment on other aspects of the dance,” he says.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jean-Luc Godard in 1968 … Does brand loyalty work for both auteurs and cola? Photograph: Keystone Pictures USA/AlamyThis idea chimes with broader research in neuroscience on how influential our beliefs are in creating our experiences. For example, put people in a brain scanner and do a blind tasting with two different brands of cola, and you get a fairly even split in terms of preference. But tell them what brand they’re drinking and their brain’s pleasure centres actually light up more if they think it’s their preferred drink. Brand loyalty is a powerful thing. And perhaps what’s true for fizzy drinks follows for Mozart, Godard or Merce Cunningham. Psychologist Paul Bloom writes in his book How Pleasure Works that this leads to a feedback loop. You think you like Pinter. Because of that you get more pleasure from watching his work, which reinforces the idea that you like it. And a fan is born.So if you don’t know anything about what you’re watching, where does that leave you? “You’re slightly off your emotional and intellectual guard,” says Davies, “so I guess you might be more open, it might to tap into things you weren’t expecting.” For the Royal Court, that worked in their favour. “There was a qualitative difference in the auditorium that night. It was thrilling: the sense of appreciation and the way people talked about it afterwards.”And it’s that focus on appreciating the work, minus preconceptions, that is Gladstone’s aim for Unknown Pleasures, much more than the guessing game of who might have made it (the identities will be released once the show has finished touring). “I think it will allow for more generous watching,” she says. “I just hope it will engender conversation and make people look critically at what’s in front of them.” Just as Fonteyn wanted.Unknown Pleasures is at Sadler’s Wells, London, 7-8 October.