Most of the games industry would describe a seven-year development cycle as hell on Earth. It brings to mind tortured, much delayed projects like Duke Nukem Forever and Daikatana – the sort of games that sink studios. So when asking Jonathan Blow to describe the process of making The Witness, the critically acclaimed puzzle game he started way back in 2008, you may expect horror stories. But you won’t get them. “It was very chill,” he says.Apparently, over those several years, Blow and his team at Thekla, Inc brought on extra help from architects and sound designers when they needed it, but for the most part they were just “six people in a room” with lenient working hours. They generally turned up by about 10:30am. Thursdays and Fridays were optional.While Blow acknowledges that indie development is difficult, he doesn’t think that translates to the same kind of taxing work you can expect at some AAA studios where tales of endless “crunch” periods are common and depressing. “If anything, indie developers have the opposite problem of not getting things done, actually,” he says, “They just goof off too much.” So when, four days before the game’s release, he tweeted a photo of a bottle of straw-coloured liquid with a tube through the lid captioned ‘Here is another thing I helped make, to help finish The Witness’, he was shocked at how many people didn’t get the joke. It wasn’t really a bottle of pee and he hadn’t really been working too hard to get to the toilet. “I’ve seen things on Twitter where people started lecturing about how indies need to have more responsibility and work-life balance, and I’m like, ‘What?’”There often seems to be a gap between Blow’s expectations of his audience and reality. He was also surprised by the near-unanimous positive response to The Witness, a demanding and enigmatic puzzle game, set on an uninhabited island filled with mazes. “I of course think it’s a very involved and sophisticated game with a lot of interesting things in it,” he says, “I didn’t expect that to be as universally seen as it is, especially early on.” He’s choosing to take it as a good sign, however, that, even though The Witness is deliberately obtuse for the first few hours, it is apparently interesting from the start – especially because only about a third of those reviewing it on PS4 even got to what he calls the “nominal ending”. “I don’t wish to complain about the way it was reviewed,” he says, “I mean, we got really good reviews, so why would I? It’s just weird when people are saying all these things about the game authoritatively and you’re like, ‘I know a lot of you guys don’t even know what the game’s about yet.’”Of course, some of that misunderstanding comes from a relatively unusual level of restraint in the PR for the game, because of certain “big secrets” Blow didn’t want spoiled. “In fact I so much didn’t want them spoiled that I made what are potentially bad business decisions,” he says, “In the sense of, like, ‘I don’t wanna talk about the stuff that makes the game super interesting. It’s gonna be totally secret until the game comes out.’ But then everybody thinks the game is about a bunch of boring maze panels or something, right?”When Thekla released trailers for The Witness last year, some people imagined that those boring maze panels were secondary to something more mechanically or thematically complex – but actually drawing lines from point to point really is the only way to interact with anything on the beautiful, lifeless, Myst-inspired island on which the game is set. Those keen to extract a narrative can make their own interpretations, but for others, working out all of the different rules by which to solve the hundreds of puzzles will be satisfaction enough.Anyone with £30 to spare can now find all this out for themselves, but Blow is still wary of spoilers. Though he insists he doesn’t want to stop people from playing how they want, he’s dismissive of those who seek help on forums and then complain that the puzzles are poorly designed. “I’m like, ‘You’re not even playing the game right,’” he says, “‘You don’t understand what they’re about because people are poking you through the things and just giving you answers, so of course it’s not a good experience.’” He’s even less sympathetic to people who opt to watch somebody else play online: “You know, if you watch it being played on Twitch you don’t get the magic of the game at all, really, because the thing that makes the game good doesn’t happen on the screen. It happens in your mind when you figure the things out.”Blow’s ideas on how his game is best played reflect his design philosophy, one that makes The Witness different from other video games and explains why he didn’t expect it to have such a broad appeal. “We’ve sort of built this picture of what a video game is,” he says, “It involves certain things, and lately those things are stuff like congratulating you, and giving you a pat on the back or some kind of reward or some kind of story moment or something every time you do something, right? Or, you know, not giving you anything too hard, explicitly tutorialising things. Being very heavily story oriented seems to be a thing that a lot of games feel like they need to do. This game explicitly rejects all that stuff, not arbitrarily even but for what I think are good reasons.”The Witness certainly isn’t congratulatory. When you solve a puzzle, your only tangible reward is more puzzles, whether through the activation of the next in a chain or an open door. The audio logs don’t take you through a linear story as in Gone Home, and there’s no narrative twist for a pay-off. And the only tutorial is in the puzzles themselves; often you’ll come across one for which it’s nearly impossible to figure out the rule without first finding and solving simpler examples of that rule elsewhere on the island.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Witness Photograph: Thekla IncNonverbal communication is a big part of The Witness, and Blow thinks that might explain why some people are approaching the game as a dialogue or even battle between him and the player, though he doesn’t see it as combative himself. “There’s like a kind of rhetoric that moves through various subjects as you solve puzzles in the game,” he says, “And it might be that the fact that there’s that flow of ideas, they’re personifying it a little bit more into a combative relationship. I could see that.”It’s elements like nonverbal communication, rather than genre labels, that draw Blow to other games. Though he didn’t have much time to play anything towards the end of development, he did spend a weekend with side-scrolling city builder Kingdom, which similarly rejects heavy tutorialisation. Unsurprisingly, he’s also looking forward to playing other puzzle games like the four-dimensional Miegakure, and Stephen’s Sausage Roll, which he describes as “one of the best puzzle games ever made, or one of the best video games ever made”.As for what’s next from Jonathan Blow, that’ll depend on how much money he gets back from The Witness (in its first week it has sold more than 100,000 copies and made a gross revenue of over $5m, but that doesn’t even cover development costs). Given that he came up with the idea for The Witness before he had even finished Braid, however, it’s likely he already has something in mind, even if we have to wait another seven years to find out what it is.