The work of artists has long inspired fashion designers. As have their wardrobes. Think about it – the sartorial skills of Robert Mapplethorpe, Georgia O’Keeffe, Andy Warhol, David Hockney or Frida Kahlo have been undeniably influential on fashion styling and clothing design. Most recently, menswear designer Raf Simons collaborated with the Mapplethorpe Foundation to create his entire spring/summer 2017 collection, unveiled this June in Florence.American artist Robert Rauschenberg, the subject of a major retrospective later this year at Tate Modern, is a groundbreaking visual creator who disrupted ideas of what art could look like. He also happened to have a great wardrobe.Last week, Francis Morris, director of Tate Modern, used the words “risk-taking” and “adventure” to describe his six-decade career at the launch of this forthcoming show that has been three years in development and will open at the newly revamped gallery on 1 December. It will document the artist’s brilliance at working across a variety of media, including his sculpture-painting mashups (known as the Combines), his photography and also his performance-based work, which saw him collaborate with the likes of dancer-choreographer Merce Cunningham. One of the key facets of Rauschenberg’s work was the way in which he gathered materials, which might otherwise have been considered junk, such as the canvas of old sneakers, old tyres and even a stuffed goat he found in a New York thrift store. The latter formed part of a seminal piece called Monogram, which will be shown in the capital for the first time since 1964. Talking about the materials he sought for his epic canvases, he likened them to the way in which clothes evolve through wearing them. “I like the experience that says that a shirt changes when it gets in the sun a little, or when you go swimming in it, or when the dog sleeps on it,” he said. “I like the history of objects. I like humanitarian reportage.”His own style was not wildly colourful like Hockney’s, or indicative of his sexual persuasions like Mapplethorpe’s, or reliant on one quick visual shortcut like Warhol’s wig. Instead, it was full of distinct signatures that revolve around classic menswear pieces but worn the Rauschenberg way – and it has made him one of my personal style heroes. Below are the key motifs of his look, all of which are ripe for copying, and general wardrobe worship.The RR sleeve roll      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sleeves rolled high on the upper arm, well above the elbow. Photograph: Jack Mitchell/Getty ImagesRauschenberg gave good sleeve-roll. It probably served a practical purpose over and above its coolness but still, this trait (recently mastered by the likes of Barack Obama) was a styling affectation that the artist employed throughout his career. Images of Rauschenberg and fellow artist Jasper Johns, with whom he had a long partnership from 1954 onwards, showcase both artists’ appreciation for the sleeve-roll (note: they also had excellent short, back and sides haircuts). Rolled high on the upper arm, well above the elbow, Rauschenberg would tuck his shirt in, with a simple white vest almost visible beneath and a classic watch. Denim      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Robert Rauschenberg in his denim-cut offs, Florida, 1979 Photograph: Terry Van Brunt/Rauschenberg FoundationOne of my all-time-favourite Rauschenberg looks is of him wearing a pair of what I can only refer to as “slutty” denim-cut offs. Quite vintage Amy Winehouse, quite next-season-Gosha. Styled with a military-style shirt (rolled-up sleeves, obvs), Rauschenberg proves that sometimes a bit of good old-fashioned thigh-action is not to be sniffed at (cue holiday wardrobe inspiration and frayed-edge-hem trend box both ticked). He was also partial to jeans – a look he wore throughout his career, with the same tucked-in-shirt and cigarette look.Minimalism      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rauschenberg at an exhibition of his works at the Stable Gallery in New York, 1953. Photograph: Allan Grant/Time & Life Pictures/Getty ImageConsidering Rauschenberg’s work is packed with colour and texture, his wardrobe, particularly during his earlier years, had a rather slick, minimalist bent. In a 1953 image of the artist sitting on the floor, which appeared in Life magazine, the cropped hair, dark suit worn with a dark tie, white socks and pair of classic black lace-up shoes, has something of the Raf Simons about it. Similarly, a photograph from 1958, where the artist is standing in front of the infamous goat from Monogram, shows him wearing a plain black jumper over a shirt with simple slacks, his arms twisted around his torso. It looks like an ad campaign or a fashion shoot circa right this second. The sweatshirt      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rauschenberg in his grey marl sweatshirt Photograph: Robert Alexander/Getty ImagesIf the Rauschenberg wardrobe as it evolved is rooted in classic Americana, then nothing quite says this as clearly as his fondness for a grey marl sweatshirt. He wears one over a white shirt on the cover of his Combines book complete with trademark pushed-up sleeves. Even more joyous, though, is a Mapplethorpe portrait where the artist is simply resplendent on a boardwalk, gulls swooping around him, laughing and wearing a sweat over a white shirt – the shirt-sleeves trailing out of the sweatshirt arms. Styled with white pleat front chinos and a pair of hiker-style boots, it’s a look that perfectly sums up the way he wore clothes, but never let them wear him. Bravo.This article was modified on 3/8/16 to more correctly illustrate the text.