Shareholders of Allergan, a California-based pharmaceutical company, likely rejoiced when the company won the top spot in the Newsweek Green Rankings of the 500 largest publicly traded US companies last month. Newsweek and its partner, Corporate Knights Capital, cited the company's 20-year-old environmental strategy, with recent efforts focused on innovative waste management initiatives and energy-efficiency projects. Green bloggers, on the other hand, saw the Allergan win as a sign that the list, which has been closely watched since its inception in 2009, might no longer be relevant to those truly interested in pursuing sustainability. The reason? Allergan is the maker of Botox, the cosmetic form of botulinum toxin, among other cosmetic products, such as Latisse, an eyelash-enhancement solution, and Natrelle-brand silicone breast implants.Energy efficiency is all well and good, but what does sustainability mean when America's greenest company is built on pushing arguably dangerous ideals of female beauty?Other purportedly green rankings seem equally backward. For instance, it seems dubious to include Apple in the EPA Green Power Partnership's 2014 Top 30 Tech and Power List of the largest green power users when labor-rights organizations have roundly criticized the company for excessive overtime and harsh labor conditions in its Foxconn Technology Group facilities. It's difficult to applaud a business that lowers carbon-dioxide emissions while simultaneously exploiting its most vulnerable workers. Defining sustainabilityThe trouble seems to be that, while everybody loves a good top-10 list, rankings often fail to include social metrics that provide a more complete picture of a company's societal impact. Perhaps social metrics are overlooked because they're so much more difficult to objectively quantify than environmental metrics.Simon MacMahon, global director of advisory services at Sustainalytics, says that many commissioning organizations fail to put in the time and energy necessary to produce informed results: “To be credible, rankings need a strong methodology, a tested research process that in most cases should include company dialogue, and a team of skilled analysts. Unfortunately, there are no shortcuts and so, the number of credible sustainability rankings out there is fairly limited.”Regardless of whether green rankings serve as a useful indicator of genuine progress, it’s clear that most disagreements over green rankings rest with the nebulous concept of sustainability. MacMahon notes that corporate sustainability (as opposed to governmental or personal sustainability) means different things to different companies and to different stakeholder groups. “There really is no one definition,” he says. In a PV magazine article last year, Roger Ballentine, president of Green Strategies, an environmental and energy consulting firm, warned against confusing sustainability – which also includes transparency, corporate governance and social responsibility issues – with environmental friendliness. “Sustainability is a business metric,” he told Guardian Sustainable Business editor Jennifer Kho. “It’s like comparing price-to-earnings ratios; we’re evolving to a standard set of sustainability metrics.” Ballentine added that if sustainability is going to be a universally applicable business metric, all companies should be judged in the same way. “We should be very consistent in how we evaluate companies in terms of sustainability metrics, regardless of what industry they’re in,” he told PV magazine. What really mattersCarol Hee, who directs the Center for Sustainable Enterprise at the Kenan-Flagler Business School at University of North Carolina Chapel Hill University, says that if we define sustainability as the “triple bottom line” – measuring business performance in terms of its effects on people, the planet and profit – this provides corporate executives and stakeholders with a comprehensive lens through which to assess sustainability. To determine whether a company is authentically sustainable, Hee seeks information on the management team, the firm’s corporate governance and the culture. “I’d also want to know whether the firm was socially responsible,” she said. “How does the firm treat its employees, retirees and job applicants? Does the firm have non-discriminatory practices, pay a fair wage, offer safe working conditions and benefits like health care and paid time off?” Hee argues that social responsibility stretches beyond a company’s walls, extending to its interactions with overseas workers and the local community. For example, Apple and Nike, which have both topped various green rankings in the past few years, have grappled with bringing social concerns in line with environmental initiatives. After China Labor Watch found “labor camp” conditions at Apple's Foxconn assembly facility in Chengdu, China, in 2011, the company switched assembly to Pegatron, another Chinese facility, where China Labor Watch found new claims of exploitation in 2013. That didn't stop Apple from making the EPA's list of “greenest” tech companies that year. In 2012, Catholic NGO Education for Justice found a major Nike shoe factory was forcing employees to work unpaid overtime without benefits and was subjecting them to verbal abuse from supervisors. That same year, Nike took the top slot in the Climate Counts emissions reduction rankings.The final component for corporate sustainability, in Hee’s view, is what the company is doing to minimize negative impacts over its product's entire life cycle, including raw materials acquisition, materials manufacturing, product manufacturing and packaging, transportation, retail, consumer use and waste.Newsweek's Green Rankings prompted the inevitable question as to whether such lists might ultimately do more harm than good. Done poorly, they can contribute to the general greenwashing of industry, encouraging companies to shoot for bogus metrics that distract from real corporate responsibility. Done well, they have the potential to lend a competitive justification for socially responsible initiatives. We'll have a better idea next year as to which is winning out. Debbi McCullough is an independent writer, editor and owner of Hanging Rock Media in Cary, North Carolina.The social impact hub is funded by AngloAmerican. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out more here.