How does someone end up being a hoarder? Is it genetic, a result of trauma or learned? Causes are complex and still not really understood, but I ended up being a hoarder because I had the perfect storm – both my parents were hoarders, my own childhood trauma, and I was surrounded by a house full of Things.Things – I always use a capital T because they were a major influence in my life and moulded how I experienced the world.Both my parents were children of the depression, born in 1928 in working-class neighbourhoods where traditionally physical labour and strength was valued; education, not so much. My father was born with a physical disability, my mother was mentally unwell, both “conditions” that were never discussed and there was certainly little, if any support available to either them or their families at the time. Growing up in our house was an obstacle course where we walked around Things, over Things, on Things. Valuable or cheap, they all had the same fate, usually discarded and forgotten on the floor. It was made clear to me as “the child” I should never talk about our home life with outsiders. What more could I want? I had a place to sleep and food on the table. Well, not exactly on the table. I never ate from the family dining table – it was piled up with papers, CDs, videos, books. We always ate lunch and dinner on our laps, sitting a metre or two away from the table. We couldn’t get any closer because of all the Things on the floor. Buried in treasures: there’s more to hoarding than OCD | Paul Salkovskis and Sinead Lambe I only remember one party at my house as a child. The kids didn’t go through the house; we all trouped down the sideway out to the backyard and I think we used the outdoor toilet. That was better than going into the bathroom in the house. Trust me. I was sent to the school counsellor as I didn’t have many (if any) friends that I hung out with. The counsellor was a nun, ancient to my young eyes and intimidating – in full habit. I always lied, saying I was fine when the reality was I so dreadfully sad and lonely I’d often cry myself to sleep.As soon as I could I moved out and into a one-bedroom place. Slowly but surely it filled up with Things. I still had few, if any friends from school, and making new ones was hard because I was a loner. For company I kept magazines of dream houses for inspiration or incredible meals I could cook for all the friends I would make. Then there were all the clothes that I bought, my wardrobe bursting because I never had many nice outfits growing up. As my parents got older the hoarding continued, but there was no epiphany for Dad after the single-bed mattress of my long-dead grandmother he had kept in the hallway fell on him and he couldn’t move, and it broke his arm. No lightbulb moment when dad made a small hole in the lounge room ceiling so that he could feed the mother possum and her baby. Mum wasn’t much better. She died alone; it was early April in Melbourne, she wasn’t found for three weeks, the authorities think. It was the smell that alerted the neighbours. The real-estate agent sent me with an invoice requesting payment for the removal of “hazardous waste”. That was my mum. I still struggle, sometimes. I’ll often just stare at something and not know time has passed as I’m trying to decide what to do with it. I was clearing out Dad’s place and was keeping a couch. As a child I remember we used to sit on it in one of the rooms we’d retreat to where the hoard wasn’t so bad, and we’d sit by the fire together eating vanilla slices and drinking tea – a real treat. Bondi hoarders: forced auction stalled after cash keeps sheriff's office at bay Then a trusted friend who was helping me asked “Why are you keeping that?” I felt like I’d been woken from a trance, I saw the couch with different eyes – it was a dirty light brown, the seats and armrests sagged, the springs were broken and the metal wheels scratched the wood floor. I’ve often been exhausted by my parents’ legacy, the burden of going through all their Things when every Thing screams silently at me with a deep melancholy.I moved away from the hoarding urge by myself and without outside help from psychology or therapy. My incentive was my parents, and my realisation that I didn’t want to end up like them.There is joy now. I have a home that is a sanctuary and it is a place I enjoy spending time in alone or with friends. I’ll never have a magazine-style house but that’s OK, I’ve come such a long way. Today many of my friends don’t know I was a hoarder, they just think I’m a bit messy, and I don’t mind that at all.Giovanna Walker is a guest on SBS’s Insight program at 8.30pm on 12 July 