Shirt swapping has been going on for a long time – girls buying men’s shirts, and men’s shirtmakers using pretty, feminine fabrics: transparent satin-stripe voiles, flowery patterns. shades of pink and violet. Now shirt swapping has extended to tie swapping. Men’s tie departments are pillaged by females. Fenwicks in Bond Street and other female fashion shops and boutiques are displaying ties galore, which are being bought by girl friends and boy friends indiscriminately.Girls who like to wear something that doesn’t look as good on a man are buying smock shirts. A smock shirt is less voluminous than a smock but has what might be called smock details: the neck is round or square, there is usually a yoke, and often pleated or pin-tucked fronts They are generally made in a loosely woven, unbleached cotton muslin that is being called cheesecloth. Some time ago I had a communication from Ascher fabrics saying, “Cheesecloth – originated by Ascher – is now in dark colours also and there are new motifs and border designs.” Cheesecloth originated by Ascher? Well, it has wrapped up cheeses for centuries, but may be Ascher was one of the first to turn it into a fashion fabric. The connection between cheesecloths and smocks requires a bit of imagination. The shepherd boy in his smock no doubt kissed the dairymaid, but she wasn’t dressed in cheesecloth, nor for that matter in butter muslin. As for his smock, it was made of closely woven linen which, combined with voluminous fashioning, kept him dry except in very bad weather. Thomas Burberry of Basingstoke was a maker of agricultural smocks, and it was his experiment with methods of weather-proofing fabrics that started the long Burberry raincoat saga. Ascher’s cheesecloth is a crushed cotton in their inexpensive Bourec range of fabrics. Starling with the plain unbleached colour so fashionable last year, it is now being produced in dark colours and over 30 designs. Some of them are Japanese erotic prints, and these are much in demand for men’s shirts. The girl’s smock shirt that we have photographed by the manufacturing firm called Mother Wouldn’t Like It is to one of Ascher’s less daring oriental designs of which, as it so happens, mother could not possibly disapprove.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Guardian, 8 February 1972.