In his day, he was revered by one art critic as “England’s Michelangelo” – now George Frederic Watts’s studio in the Surrey village of Compton has been restored and opened to the public with some of his works on show.The beautiful, tall, red-walled space, with light flooding in through a south-facing window, is complete with his mahogany easel, paints and brushes, as well as the steps he used to reach some of the towering canvases. There is also his closet concealing a full-size skeleton, and paintings he was working on at the time of his death in 1904.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The red-walled studio is complete with the artist’s mahogany easel, paints and brushes. Photograph: David GrandorgeThe Watts Gallery opened as a museum of his work just before his death, but the project – backed by the Heritage Lottery Fund – reveals for the first time his grand studio and the more modest adjoining space for his artist wife Mary, in the house designed for them by the Arts and Crafts architect Ernest George.'Secret' George Frederic Watts gallery reopens in small Surrey village Watts was infamously slow to complete work, and many paintings begun years earlier were moved to Compton . Some, including his portrait of Florence Nightingale as a pudding-faced woman far from the romantic image of the lady with the lamp, were never finished.One gigantic canvas, The Court of Death, has returned to the house on long loan from the Tate for the first time since Watts gave it to the nation and it left for London on a horse-drawn cart in 1902. Even with his special steps the artist could only reach the top canvas by sinking it into the room below through a special slot in the floor, which has also been carefully restored. Watts envisaged the chilling allegory as a comforting image intended for a pauper’s chapel, with a fallen woman, a soldier, a man on crutches, an old woman, and a statesman gathering gratefully around Death sitting with a stillborn baby on her lap. Perhaps fortunately, the chapel was never built.Next door the first permanent display has been created on the life and work of the woman the staff regard as the heroine of the story, his wife Mary Seton Fraser Tytler.Watts notoriously first married the actor Ellen Terry, when she was a radiantly beautiful teenager who firmly declined his offer to rescue her from the stage: the hopeless mismatch was eventually annulled. Some had suggested the second was a marriage of convenience, when he was 60 and she 36, until passionate love letters were recently discovered. She put her own career as an artist on the back burner to tend for Watts in life, and his artistic legacy in the 34 years she outlived him. Despite her best efforts, Watts’s reputation went into freefall as his huge symbolist paintings and portraits of famous contemporaries came to seem clunkily old fashioned: the Tate’s entire donated gallery was dismantled in 1938 and never reinstated. His work has only returned to favour in the last 20 years, once again included in major exhibitions and fetching soaring prices at auction.“He was the visionary genius – but she was the driving force, the one who got things done,” said Kerri Offord, the museum’s head of collections.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Self-portrait of George Frederic Watts. Photograph: TateTytler’s lasting memorials were the gallery, the first in England purpose built for one artist, and the extraordinary Watts Chapel in the village cemetery, now Grade I listed, which she designed herself and built with the aid of people she trained in pottery and craftwork. She gave art classes at the house (a tradition that will now be continued in new conservation and workshop spaces), founded the pottery to provide local employment, and became the first named designer sold by Liberty’s in London.After her death the house was sold and split into separate ownership, and the pottery closed in the 1950s. The museum has managed to buy the house and grounds back, with the eventual aim of completely restoring the property.Tytler’s studio includes spectacular panels created for a soldiers’ chapel at Aldershot in Hampshire, carved out of layers of sacking, chicken wire, plaster and hat felt. The panels were rescued decades ago in the 48 hours before the chapel was demolished, but have only now been restored from under several coats of house paint that almost obliterated their beauty.“She was a really remarkable woman, and it is wonderful finally to have the space to do her justice,” Offord said.•Watts Studios will open every Tuesday to Sunday from January 26