Government pledges to spend billions of pounds on flood defences are failing to convince vulnerable householders, who are taking matters into their own hands. The government plans to spend £2.3bn on flood management and defences over the next six years. Yet, as UK residents are warned to expect more flooding after the devastation in Cumbria, Yorkshire and Lancashire, some homeowners are installing or building their own defence systems.The Pavitts – Charlotte, 33, and Andrew, 36 – have chosen to fight back after floodwater wrecked their home two years ago. Charlotte says the ground floor was only under an inch of water, “but for all the damage it caused, it might as well have come up to my thigh”.The couple, who live on the banks of Sunbury Court Island, Surrey, with their children Benjamin, three and Evie, five months, were offered a package of defences as part of the Environment Agency’s River Thames Scheme. But they felt these were not sufficient. “The plastic flood defence barriers to slot into doors didn’t seem robust enough,” says Charlotte. “What could they do against the force of the river?”The family’s four-bed house is currently an empty shell. Cloaked in blue tarpaulin, it sits on orange stilts. The Pavitts felt the only way to protect their home from future floodwater was to have it lifted. They asked the Environment Agency if it could help fund the work, but were told this wasn’t possible. Eventually, Surrey council contributed £5,000, but the Pavitts paid the rest. Lifting the house by 60cm has cost close to £100,000, but Charlotte says they couldn’t bear to spend every winter “weighed down by anxiety”. “I’m not expecting handouts,” she says. “But the Environment Agency wastes money on consultation events and sending out structural engineers to look at properties but it is not flexible when people are being proactive.”Another homeowner unconvinced by government efforts is Gary Davies, who lives in Yorkshire’s flood-prone Calder Valley. He says: “All the Environment Agency does is flood mitigation. It has done a lot of work in the valley to prevent flooding – raising river walls and creating flood plains – but it seems to be fighting a losing battle.”When Gary’s basement flooded, he didn’t even think of applying for a council grant. “I just got on with sorting it out myself,” he says. He bought a pump on eBay.“ Then I got a guy I knew to build a bloody great hole in the cellar. It’s quite primitive. We’ve taken a dustbin, cut the top 30cm off and dropped it into the hole.” In that hole went the pump and a trigger switch so the system could turn itself on even if Gary was holiday. The project was fairly cheap. “It was £100 to have the hole dug and £60 for the pump. I also did a bit of DIY concreting.” The only reason people don’t protect their homes is because they’re not aware of what’s out there to do it He has yet to tell his insurance company about the work, but hopes it will slash prohibitive insurance premiums.George Leigh, spokesperson for the Environment Agency, says: “From April 2011 to March 2015, the Environment Agency reduced the risk of flooding to over 177,000 properties. Over the next six years, Defra [Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs] has committed to spending £2.3bn on more than 1,500 schemes to better protect 300,000 households from flooding.“It is impossible to prevent all flooding, but every year we are out in communities improving flood protection and informing homeowners and businesses to help them stay resilient.”The Hewitt family managed to secure funding towards protecting their home in Staines, Surrey, after it was hit by floodwater three years ago. Sue Hewitt, 53, tells of water seeping into their three-bedroom home until the downstairs was submerged. Sue, husband Andy, 53, and children Jordan, 20, and Shannon, 12, spent six weeks in a hotel and more than a year in rented accommodation, waiting for their house to be renovated. “It was a dreadful time, and really distressing moving the family,” Sue says.Now they’re back, she says: “It still doesn’t feel like home.” For flood victims, it takes a long time for life to shift back to normal – longer than it takes for the house to dry out.To prevent any damage from future floods the Hewitts have installed a range of protection devices, including anti-flood doors, air brick covers and a pump system. In the garage, flood “defender barriers” are on standby – these are made-to-measure, water-resistant walls that slot into the front door and garage.The defences cost nothing, after the Hewitts applied for “property level protection” through the Environment Agency’s Thames scheme. “The limit per household was just under £12,000,” says Sue. They also applied for a grant through Surrey council to raise their electrics. Homeowners who can prove flooding has damaged their properties in the past three years can be eligible for up to £5,000 worth of defences through their local authority.Frank Kelly, CEO of UK Flood Barriers, says: “The only reason people don’t protect their homes is because they’re not aware of what’s out there to do it. People would protect themselves if they knew what products were available.”Worried householders can check their flood risk at Checkmyfloodrisk.co.uk, or via the Environment Agency, where they can also sign up to flooding alerts. There are tips on flood-proofing your home at the National Flood Forum, Nationalfloodforum.org.uk.What you can do• Protection products range from anti-flood doors and air bricks (which let in only air, not water) to flood barriers, which can be attached to doors or garages. A selection of products can cost up to £5,000 but if the house has been flooded recently, homeowners may be entitled to a property level protection grant through their local council.• Install a DIY pump system. Pumps can be a simple solution for people who live in old houses with flood-prone basements. Dig a hole in the floor for a plastic bin liner. Place a pump in it and float in the liner; install a pipe system so the water can be pumped out of the basement. There are plenty of step-by-step guides online.• Get a tradesperson to check your roof for gaps and cracks, and ensure all tiles are secure. Make sure you fill any gaps or holes in the sealant around doors and windows. Cover air vents from the outside and inside with thick plastic sheeting.• Raise the house off the ground: it may be expensive but as a last resort, specialist companies can lift houses to a safe height by first inserting a steel cradle underneath the property, and then using jacks to heave it off the ground, millimetre by millimetre. Beware, costs can reach more than £100,000 and there’s also the financial strain of renting while the work is carried out.