"The position of doom," is what my daughter calls it when she's beaten me in a play fight. Looking at the Environment Agency's live flood warning map, the phrase seems to describe most of Britain that is south of Lancaster.There's something distinctly biblical about seeing 90 simultaneous flood warnings and around 250 flood alerts covering the nation. About two weeks ago a lake formed on parkland near my home. Typically on that spot it drains away after a day or so. This time it's stayed, and grown.From anglers swept away, to buses with windows smashed by waves overcoming sea defences, and vast areas of countryside beneath water, the prime minister, David Cameron, has been sufficiently struck to make a link between extreme weather and climate change, in spite of his reported comments about getting rid of "green crap".Owen Paterson has been more circumspect, as might be expected from a man appointed to the position of environment secretary with the same logic as putting Guy Fawkes in charge of the nation's gunpowder supplies and matches. But to reassure the public he has promised that "everything possible is being done" to help flood victims.Can we relax then, and what constitutes "everything"? The Environment Agency oversees flood risk for the UK. Under Paterson's approach, and as a result of a 15% cut to the agency's funding, it stands to lose around 557 of its staff who work on flooding.The dangers of building on flood plains have long been known, and warned about in the context of climate change.Paterson's "everything possible" pledge also comes hot on the heels of the government's stated aim of removing checks and balances on developers wanting to build on green spaces.It led to Paterson peddling the notoriously unscientific concept of biodiversity offsetting for established, unique ecosystems set to disappear beneath new roads and driveways. This scheme implies that if, say, an ancient Roman fresco got in the way of redecoration, it would be OK to paint over it and substitute a few posters from the British Museum.An atmosphere of relaxed planning rules stands to guarantee more, not fewer future victims, especially when many local authorities are already waving through housebuilding schemes on flood prone areas against the Environment Agency's advice.A presumption in favour of building, and the agency responsible for flood protection being eviscerated, what else could go wrong? His boss has made the connection to climate change, so surely Paterson's "everything" would include exemplary policy on global warming?It couldn't possible include a new-fangled insurance scheme called Flood Re, that fails to take account of the increasing risk due to global warming, could it?And, he wouldn't dream of presiding over a 41% fall in spending on domestic climate change initiatives, would he?There's no way, of course, that "doing everything possible" for victims of extreme weather and flooding would include an attitude to energy policy that fiercely opposed low-carbon renewables, and was aggressively in favour of the dirty extraction of even more fossil fuels.Oh dear, it seems trust in responsible government on this occasion may be misplaced. Extraordinarily, all these things are the case. Paterson is doing everything possible to put us in "the position of doom". But this is no play fight.Given the floods, an old joke seems appropriate. It's the one about who was the best financier in the Bible? The answer, Noah, because he floated his stock while the world around him was in liquidation.Westminster politics is so brazen, yet tiresome and detached, that sometimes it's irksome to flatter it with attention. But it can't be ignored when ministers float their stock and make decisions with disregard like so much floodwater off a duck's back.We can react to the flood crises in two ways: shrug, increase the risks and hope for the best, or take the hint and the opportunity to do things differently. Anyone pushing the former is overdue a change of position.www.onehundredmonths.org