Brexit: Britain’s Biggest Deal9pm, BBC2The Beeb’s political editor Laura Kuenssberg looks ahead as the government prepares to pull the trigger on the gun that is – depending on one’s perspective – either the starting pistol launching a graceful national sprint towards a glittering prize, or the weapon that will blast a self-inflicted hole through the collective foot. Key players will consider the issue that will dominate British politics for at least the next two years. Andrew MuellerCrufts 20178pm, Channel 4Clare Balding is your host for the biggest canine event of the year, which is taking place at Birmingham’s NEC. The dogs are primped and trained to perfection and competition is fierce. Terriers and hounds are under the spotlight and there are highlights of the Agility and Flyball events. Cuddly fluffboat Devon, who won last year’s Crufts, pops by before representing the UK in a world challenge and there’s also a look at Molly the cat-detection dog (yes, that really is a thing). Hannah VerdierBritain on the Fiddle9pm, BBC1The emotive issue of benefit fraud has powered tabloid outcry for decades and is estimated to cost the UK around £1.3bn a year. Veteran Panorama reporter Richard Bilton continues his street-level tour of duty in the battle against scammers, witnessing first-hand the effort that goes into fraud-detection and following various investigative teams as they sift through mountains of evidence – often involving multiple identities – to pinpoint their targets. Graeme VirtuePrime Suspect 19739pm, ITVThe premise of this origin story is apparently the same as Lynda La Plante’s novel Tennison – an exploration of DCI Jane’s earlier years. And yet, almost none of tonight’s episode is devoted to Tennison herself, focusing instead on the continued hunt for murder suspect Eddie and the car Julie Ann was seen getting into. Besides, with so many familiar faces – from Alun Armstrong to The Inbetweeners’ Blake Harrison – suspending your disbelief might prove rather challenging. Hannah J Davies      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Shaggy dog story … class explored via pet portraits. Photograph: Phil FiskRich Dog Poor Dog11.05pm, Channel 4An inventive take on Britain’s wealth gap that wonders whether our choice of dogs has a class dimension. And where better to conduct this light-hearted yet earnest experiment than south London, where the gentrifiers and the gentrified share pavement space and pampered pekingese can’t avoid having their hindquarters sniffed by staffies and pitbulls? Dogs, park etiquette and class politics make for a triple whammy of British quirk. Phil HarrisonWalks With My Dog 9pm, More4Snoozy new series in which three celebs a week go on a nice ramble with their pets. They tag-team on bite-sized segments: drone shot of lovely countryside, map of the area with animated dotted line, spot of local interest, bit of doggie cuteness, then on to the next one. Today, Angela Griffin and her cavapoo pad round North Yorkshire, Phil Spencer has a relaxed look at Kent accompanied by cocker spaniels, and Robert Lindsay takes his labradors to the Cornish coast. Jack SealeDeadliest Crash: Disaster At Le Mans 9pm, PBS AmericaMotor racing suffered its worst-ever disaster in 1955 during the Le Mans 24-hour race when Pierre Levegh’s Mercedes was nudged from the track, hurtling into a stand, killing more than 80 people. This programme examines theories as to why it happened, including untested technologies and the cavalier driving of the terminally ill Mike Hawthorn. The race organisers’ disregard for health and safety was, however, staggering. David StubbsFilm choiceNorthern Soul (Elaine Constantine, 2014) 11.20pm, Film4It’s set in a fictional town called Burnsworth, but this is a loving recreation of a very real time and place: 1970s Lancashire, and the dancehall revolution that was northern soul. Elliot James Langridge is a winning presence as John, who rejects teacher Steve Coogan’s sneery values to bond with new mate Matt (Josh Whitehouse) over dreams of a vinyl-buying trip to the US. It’s all a bit flimsy, but the sweaty, frenetic dancing and marvellous music are pure joy. Paul HowlettLive sportODI Cricket: West Indies v England 1pm, Sky Sports 2. The third and final game of the series from Barbados.Europa League Football: FC Rostov v Manchester United 5.30pm, BT Sport 2. United take a first-leg trip to Russia in the last 16.Super League: Warrington Wolves v Wigan Warriors 7pm, Sky Sports 1. Coverage from the Halliwell Jones Stadium.