Pimping Perrault – and much more By revitalising fairytales in The Bloody Chamber (1979) – infusing them with eroticism, making their passive heroines sexier, smarter and stronger, telling them with what Sarah Hall has called “lit-up prose” – Carter initially emboldened other literary authors to tackle supernatural themes afresh. Then her approach, duly toned down for mass consumption, became a model for the feminist-lite reinvention of other disregarded genres in print and on screen, in adult and children’s fiction – from vampire horror (Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Twilight) to SF dystopia (The Hunger Games) to Disney princesses with attitude (Frozen, Brave) – and so played a significant part in fantasy’s resurrection and its ascendancy in the bestseller and box office charts since the late 90s. (It’s a rather fascinating coincidence that when JK Rowling had the 1990 epiphany in which she thought up the Harry Potter saga, she and Carter were both living in Clapham, south London).Literary heirs and siblings They range from Anne Enright (taught by her at UEA) to Neil Gaiman (has said he was inspired by her seeing each fairy story as “a loaded gun ... a bomb”) to Sarah Waters (indebted to Carter’s historical novel Nights at the Circus in her early work). In his biography of herThe Invention of Angela Carter, Edmund Gordon also names Nicola Barker, China Miéville, David Mitchell, Ali Smith and Jeanette Winterson as novelists from the next generation who have acknowledged her influence. Others have suggested an impact on figures from her own generation, such as Margaret Atwood, AS Byatt and Salman Rushdie. Her re-energisation of the short story form has also been seen as seminal.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jamie Dornan and Dakota Johnson in the film adaptation of Fifty Shades of Grey (2015). Photograph: Allstar/Focus FeaturesThe pornographic blockbuster Just as Carter championed the Marquis de Sade as an unlikely ally of feminism in her non-fiction study The Sadeian Woman, EL James audaciously made his fiction a model for her tale of female empowerment via BDSM, Fifty Shades of Grey. Her Anastasia is the antithesis of a Carter heroine; but Carter was not averse to alpha-male characters (eg Duke in “Wolf-Alice”) in her celebrations of transgressive sexuality, and it has been noted that her bloody chamber anticipates Christian Grey’s “red room”.Novelists doubling up as journalistsThey existed before, particularly in the US, but Carter’s writings for New Society and the LRB had a different, cultural studies-like sensibility (post-Barthes, Benjamin and Berger) and ranged freely across subjects such as films, sci-fi, fashion, food and sex, rather than being one-off reporting assignments or a regular column or reviewing gig. The likes of Geoff Dyer, John Lanchester, Andrew O’Hagan and Will Self, who similarly double up today, are closer to her than to, say, Norman Mailer or Martin Amis.The Orange (later Baileys) prizeSet up in response to the omission of Carter’s Wise Children from the all-male 1991 Booker shortlist, as its original name – the Angela Carter prize – reflected.On campus Would thousands of students have ploughed through Ann Radcliffe and Horace Walpole, had Carter’s tales not also been part of their gothic lit module? She is also prominent in gender and cultural studies courses, thanks to her Nothing Sacred essays and The Sadeian Woman as well as her fiction, and Marina Warner has identified The Bloody Chamber as the inspiration for her own scholarly work on myths and fairytales.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Wolf Alice take their name from her story mashing up Charles Perrault and Lewis Carroll. Photograph: REX ShutterstockIn musicCarter had genuine muso credentials (as part of the 60s Bristol folk scene) so would be delighted that indie band Wolf Alice take their name from her story mashing up Charles Perrault and Lewis Carroll. Singer-songwriter Polly Paulusma and experimental pop outfit Let’s Eat Grandma also nod to her. While she is routinely invoked, though, in reviews of leading singer-songwriters - Björk, PJ Harvey, Laura Marling – if there is an influence it’s elusive: Florence Welch only bought one of her books after being compared to her, and efforts to persuade Kate Bush that she must have read her have proved unavailing.Atheism on tellyMore than a decade before Richard Dawkins and Christopher Hitchens, Carter was scandalising the god-fearing. More sly subversion than frontal attack, her 1991 Channel 4 film The Holy Family Album mischievously treated religious art as a divine photo album. It caused a flap and has never been repeated. 