“Miss Suzie?” says a man’s voice on the end of my phone line. Yes, I say, recognising the lilt of the Burmese accent. “Miss Suzie?” Yes, I say again. “This is the embassy of Myanmar” – my heart misses a beat. The embassy of Myanmar calling. Why? The long-winded conversation that seems to last for ever is only to check, in some disbelief, I sense, that I really have never been back to my home country since I left as a five-year-old, that I am not going in under another name, and that I have never applied to go home before.I start to wonder if our journey is going to be a difficult one and that everything the “outside world” has heard about the difficulties of red tape in Myanmar is going to be even trickier for someone who was born there and left. Perhaps the wait could even turn into a refusal.With hindsight, the conversation that follows makes for an amusing anecdote, but obtaining my tourist visa is nothing to laugh about and, after much discussion, they agree that I can have a tourist visa for entry. However, I don’t hold my breath.A few weeks later, with all our necessary documentation, my husband, daughter and I are sitting on a plane at Heathrow and the long journey back to Myanmar is made even longer by a five-hour delay. But why worry about another five hours after almost five decades of being away?We tackle immigration in a military-operation fashion due, we think, to being organised, but actually for no reason other than our own neuroses about border control: passports, tick; visas, tick; hair tidied to look like our passport pictures, tick; and then one adult in front and one behind, sandwiching the child through customs to make sure she has at least one parent through.The immigration officer checks my tourist visa and smiles at me – she hands my passport back and suddenly I am through. We are in Yangon.We arrive at the guesthouse, where we meet Aghkar, the resident chef who cooks us breakfast with strong coffee. I am in heaven. He smiles shyly and attempts conversation: he asks us where we are from and when we say England he becomes quite giddy and excited. He asks if we like One Direction and says he is crazy about former member Zayn. I refer him to my daughter, who might be more in tune with this line of conversation. Even in Myanmar she is connected to the internet all the time; they bond immediately as she updates him on the latest romantic twist of Zayn’s love life.I am laughing at myself: my ridiculous self who thought I would be returning to 1966 and what was then Burma: old beaten-up trucks for taxis and nothing to link us to the outside world. We cannot get away from the future. Over more coffee, Aghkar asks us why we are in Yangon (also known as Rangoon), and I tell him about my return home; sweetly he wishes us luck.Luck turns out to be Sai Sam, our translator. I show him a copy of my faded birth certificate and tell him I only know the street we lived in and, what with Burmese whispers and the fact that my parents never learned to read Burmese, I’m beginning to doubt this information now we are here.Sai Sam says “no worry, Miss Suzie” and as he looks closely at the fading Burmese script, my journey has changed. Here it is, he says, the number of the house and the street you lived in, it is on your birth certificate. My daughter looks at me, I can’t believe it and as tears fall down my face, my daughter hugs me. I have a street, I have a number. Now we can go back.We walk to the market my mother knew as Scott market, now Bogyoke market, not far from our destination. I am eager to see the place my mother shopped and where I must have been a hundred times as a child; rubies, sapphires and longyis (a traditional wraparound skirt) everywhere. I look down at the 60-year-old sapphire ring on my little finger that used to belong to my mother and a thrill runs through me. I have brought the sapphire home and somehow here it seems clearer, bluer in its Burmese home. It will be my daughter’s one day and she will know where it came from.We make our way to the top of the street and I stop and search my memory for something familiar, looking for my old house and praying it has not been demolished. At the far end, I spot the old monsoon-stained colonial four-storey apartment building that was home.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Suzie, being held by her father, and surrounded by family and friends, about to board the BOAC flight from what was then Rangoon in 1966.I am transported to my childhood standing on the fourth-floor balcony watching the traders and the busy street below. As we approach the building, Sai Sam talks to a local who calls up to the balconies and an old Chinese woman peers out from the third floor, inviting us up. It turns out she has lived in the same apartment for more than 60 years and remembers my family well.We sit in the apartment that was exactly like the one I lived in, but one floor down, and the old Chinese woman tells me stories about my family that other people might think an old woman had just made up. But, no, she tells me tales no one else except our family would know: the shy little brother who never went out except to school and back again; the older brother playing outside, pretending to be the local gang leader, the mother who couldn’t cope with the five children when she didn’t have an amah (maid) to help. And then she says, one day you were all living upstairs and the next there was silence.As we leave the dark hallway of the building to meet the bright sunshine outside, my husband says to me: “Hey, Aung-gulay, you’re here.” Yes, yes, I am.