On a cold day in January 1697, a young man walked through the streets of Edinburgh on his way to the gallows. On a cold day in January 2016, a poet and some theatre-makers gathered in London to work out how to tell the story of his life and death. The poet was Simon Armitage and the theatre-makers were Told By An Idiot. The young man was Thomas Aikenhead, the last person in Britain to be executed for blasphemy.I Am Thomas, billed as “a brutal comedy with songs”, is a play about freedom of speech. Its title references “Je suis Charlie”, the slogan coined in the aftermath of last year’s Charlie Hebdo shootings, to show solidarity with the murdered cartoonists. Although the play does not make direct reference to the Paris atrocity, it presents Aikenhead as a free-speech martyr, a young man put to death because he denied the existence of God, mocked the Bible as “a rhapsody of unfeigned nonsense”, and said he preferred Muhammad to Christ.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘A brutal comedy with songs’ … I Am Thomas in rehearsal. Photograph: Manuel HarlanThe parallels might seem rather hard to miss but Armitage, who has written the lyrics, says: “I think we could make more of it. I would like him to say, at some point, ‘Je suis Thomas.’ It’s an incredibly energised phrase and it encapsulates a notion of free speech. I suppose we’re making Aikenhead a flagbearer for that.”Paul Hunter, the director, is reluctant to make the link so overt, fearing this might “reduce it to The 10 O’Clock News”. He insists, too, that I Am Thomas should not be seen as a bunch of liberal atheists having a pop at religion. “I have zero interest in attacking someone’s faith,” he says. “We have people in the rehearsal room who very clearly have faith. Our story is about tolerance and acceptance.”I Am Thomas arrives at a time when the notion of freedom of speech seems to be taking on complex new dimensions, as it becomes the subject of fierce debate around the world. The calls for Donald Trump to be banned from the UK, the concerns over no-platform policies at British universities, the recent condemnation of Charlie Hebdo by the Vatican – all these issues swirl around the play, even if they are not addressed directly. The Edinburgh student's crime was to wish he was in hell - where it was warm Aikenhead was 20 at the time of his execution. That person whose limp body hung twisting in the wind had been a student at what is now Edinburgh University. Hanging him was an opportunity for Presbyterian Scotland to show exactly how it dealt with religious scepticism. Aikenhead is sometimes regarded, therefore, as a sacrificial lamb, a rational intellectual who had the misfortune to be born into a vicious, superstitious country. His death, according to the historian Arthur Herman, was “the last hurrah of Scotland’s Calvinist ayatollahs” before the dawning age of reason.Edinburgh in 1697 was the second largest city in Britain, a place where those found guilty of being drunk or swearing on the Sabbath might be chained up in public with an iron collar round their necks. Aikenhead’s crimes, as detailed at his trial, were much worse: he questioned and ridiculed the scriptures. Yet the specific incident that saw him reported to the authorities – saying in front of the Tron Church that he wished he was in hell, where it was warm – might seem quite reasonable to anyone in Edinburgh at this time of the year, especially if they’ve just struggled down the Royal Mile into a chill wind blowing off the Forth. Simon Armitage makes Aikenhead a Christ figure and Leith Walk the Via Dolorosa Aikenhead was clearly making a joke and many regard him as little more than a naive and gobby student who said a daft thing in the wrong place at the wrong time. But there are those who prefer to see him as a sainted secularist, a proto-Richard Dawkins, venerating the words he is said to have spoken on the scaffold: “It is a principle innate and co-natural to every man to have an insatiable inclination to truth, and to seek for it as for hid treasure.”Anyone visiting Edinburgh now could walk the approximate route Aikenhead took to his death, passing many of the historic buildings he would have seen, as Armitage has done. One of the songs in the show imagines the condemned man’s thoughts on the way to the noose. Armitage makes Aikenhead a Christ figure and Leith Walk the Via Dolorosa. “Though your mind keeps turning to Calvary,” the actors sing, “hold your head up high.”One might question whether music and humour are appropriate for such a dark story, but Armitage has no doubts. “A subject like this, tackled head on, would be intensely grim. But if you can write a comedy about the Holocaust, I’m sure you can write a comedy about Thomas Aikenhead.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Simon Armitage. Photograph: Gareth Phillips for the GuardianArmitage, one of Britain’s more celebrated poets, is becoming increasingly prominent in theatre. “I like the vulnerability,” he says. “If people hate your poetry, they’re hating it somewhere you can’t see them. I don’t have to watch the expressions on their faces. With theatre, those opening nights are pretty terrifying – and exhilarating. I want to experience that more.”As for Aikenhead, despite his religious doubts, he experienced a curious form of afterlife. The Gallowlee, the sandy hill where he and others were hanged and buried, was later dug up to make mortar for the grand buildings of Edinburgh’s New Town. This great architectural symbol of the Scottish Enlightenment was thus constructed with the mulched remains of a less enlightened era’s victims. Armitage smiles on hearing this. “Our towers,” he says, “are built on the bones of the dead.” • I Am Thomas, a co-production by the National Theatre of Scotland and the Lyceum Theatre, Edinburgh, opens at the Liverpool Playhouse on 19 February and tours to Salford, Salisbury, Edinburgh, Inverness and London.