What was the imaginative title of Roy Keane's 2011 autobiography?   Roy    Keane    Roy Keane    Roy Keane: My Story Which writer described football as 'a game in which everyone gets hurt and every nation has its own style of play which seems unfair to foreigners'?   Nick Hornby    Stephen Fry    Albert Camus    George Orwell What is the missing wage packet from this quote: "When I heard Jonathan repeat the figure of £**,***, I nearly swerved off the road. 'He is taking the piss, Jonathan!' I yelled down the phone. I was so incensed. I was trembling with anger. I couldn’t believe what I’d heard"?   £35,000    £45,000    £55,000    £65,000 Who ever-so-slightly tactlessly released Leeds United On Trial: The Inside Story of an Astonishing Year, shortly after the real-life trials of Jonathan Woodgate and Lee Bowyer and while he was still manager of the club?   Terry Venables    David O'Leary    Howard Wilkinson    Peter Reid Who derided the spate of post-World Cup publications from England players in 2006 with the words: 'We got beat in the quarter-finals. I played like shit. Here's my book'?   Alan Shearer    Gary Neville    Joey Barton    Paul Scholes Whose first book in his Frankie's Magic Football series was entitled Team T. Rex?   Frank Worthington    Frank McAvennie    Frank Lampard    Trevor Francis Who used these words to describe Pep Guardiola in his autobiography: 'He racked his brains and dispersed the fog, more through hard work than mere thought. What he's achieved hasn't been about miracles, rather a gentle programming of his players. His style is crèma catalana – easily digestible. It's virtual reality mixed with real life; a swim between the shores of fantasy and reality with Estiarte by his side'?   Andrea Pirlo    Zlatan Ibrahimovic    Xavi    Zinedine Zidane Writing in his autobiography, who described whom with the words: 'He was probably the unfunniest man I have ever known. He was also completely besotted with himself'?   Gary Pallister on Eric Cantona    Tony Cascarino on Glenn Hoddle    Alex Ferguson on David Beckham    Zlatan Ibrahimovic on José Mourinho Which manager has written novels called Striker!, Defender!, and Sweeper!   Phil Brown    Tim Sherwood    Neil Warnock    Steve Bruce Which of these is not a genuine title of one of Theo Walcott's series of children's books?   TJ and the Penalty    TJ and the Cup Run    TJ and the Winning Goal    TJ and the Unfulfilled Talent You got…PerfectionSuper stuffA fine scorePretty, pretty goodNot badYou need to visit the libraryYou need to visit the libraryGet down to your local libraryPoor showPoor showChallenge your friendsSubmit answers