A recent study carried out by the University of Southern California, in collaboration with private health company Humana Inc, has revealed what we all feared – that institutional ageism in films, marginalisation and offensive “old-and-useless” stereotyping may contribute to depression and poor health among older film audiences.Only 11% of characters in the top-grossing films of 2016 are older than 60, compared with 18.5% of the overall population. (Maybe the University of Southern California and Humana Inc would like to reveal the age breakdown among their own employees?) Well, it’s quite true – and complicated by sexism. Older characters become invisible, but the women go first. In contemporary drama, old people can be snowy-haired, unimportant grandparents. Or they can be homeless people.It’s different with period drama and fantasy: you can have Meryl Streep or Helen Mirren playing the Queen or Margaret Thatcher, and Ian McKellen and Christopher Lee play Gandalf and Saruman respectively. But in regular drama about everyday life, older people get a raw deal – or no deal at all.Of course, there are exceptions. Ingmar Bergman’s Wild Strawberries and Yasujirō Ozu’s Tokyo Story created unforgettable characters for older people. There’s Hal Ashby’s Harold and Maude, about a May-to-September love affair where the older woman romances the younger man. There are the good-natured Best Exotic Marigold Hotel movies, which show older Brits coming to terms with retirement.However, in most cases – and, indeed, in some of those above – there is what I think of as the Werther’s Original glow – sentimentality and condescension towards old people.So, here is a version of the Bechdel test for ageism in films:1 The film has to have at least two people older than 60 in it who are not married or siblings.2 They must talk to each other, in a way that advances the plot, without anyone younger than 60 being present.3 They must not talk about the following things: their children, or grandchildren, unless they are discussing how to intervene decisively in their lives; cancer, heart disease, bad backs or hypertension, unless they are talking about the cure that they have just discovered due to being important medical experts.4 If the film is partly set in an old people’s care facility, at least one of the over-60 characters must work there as a carer or owner.5 If one over-60 character dies in the end, in a heart-rending yet defiant way that teaches the younger characters how to live life to the full, there must be another older character who thinks the dead character was a bit of a pain in the arse. It is more acceptable if a younger character dies and the older characters learn from him or her.6 The film must cast Celia Imrie, because she is always brilliant.Finally, anyone studying this subject should watch Andreas Dresen’s Cloud 9, a flawed but interesting film about older people having sex.