I used to go mountain biking with my family around Clayton Vale in Manchester. I always wanted to ride out in front, but my parents would make me stay between them – I think they were worried I’d escape. I’ve always liked cycling fast down steep hills. You get that adrenaline rush, which makes you want to do it again. And again.That’s what BMX racing is all about. The races are short – sometimes only 40 seconds – but it’s fast and intense. You race on specially designed tracks made of a kind of compressed gravel. Every track is different, but they all have steep hills, banked corners and lots of jumps to fly over. It’s very technical, and with eight people racing at the same time, the course can get tight. You’re constantly banging handlebars, so you have to keep your whole body strong.I’ve been racing almost three years and in that time, I’ve broken my collarbone and my wrist. I’ve also had concussion; I was jumping, my front wheel went down too soon and I went over the handlebars. None of my crashes put me off, though. I just get straight back on. I’m small for my age – if I was bigger, I’d get more power.My mum and dad get a bit scared watching me race, because it’s so fast and dangerous, but they’re supportive, taking me to training or races six times a week, while most of my school friends are at dance or football. At my age more boys than girls race BMX, because girls think that riding is something boys do. But at my first session there were lots of girls and some coaches were girls, so I saw that anyone could do it. Now I race in national championships.I’d like to ride in the velodrome but going round in circles might be boring. I think I’ll stick to BMX – it’s so much more varied. Tracks can be smooth or bumpy, wide or narrow, steep or slow, and no two races are the same. Every time I come off the track, I just want to go again.My weekend workoutHours riding each week? Up to 20.Races won? I’ve lost count!Proudest achievement? Seventh place at the national championships.Pre-race breakfast? Porridge (with jam for sweetness).Favourite track? Platt Fields in Manchester.Five ways to get started1 BMX is different from riding a “normal” bike - you have to be able to ride standing up from start to finish. Make sure you’re confident and competent doing this before you try BMX.2 You’re going to crash, and it may well hurt. When you do fall, get straight back up and have another go, otherwise the fear will hang over you, hold you back and make you more likely to crash again. Confidence, especially over the jumps, is everything.3 The technique for picking up speed over a jump is called pumping. As you go over the top of the jump, keep your body over the middle of the bike, hips above the seat and let the bike come to your body. Then when you get over the top, push the bike away with your arms and legs.4 Learn all these techniques at a coaching night. See the British Cycling website for your nearest club.My workout: Charlie Dark, 45, night runner – ‘The best thing? You don’t need equipment’ 5 You can pick up an entry level BMX for £300-£500, but you don’t need to fork out straight away. A lot of clubs hire out all the equipment you need. It’ll probably cost £3 to £6 to try BMX at a club.• By Rob Hawker, coach at Manchester BMX ClubThe essential kit      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   From left: Giro Cipher full-face helmet, £143.99,chainreactioncycles.com; Chase Edge 2016 BMX Race Bike, £399.98,crucialbmxshop.com; Dainese Performance Evo Knee Guard, £49.95, halfords.com Photograph: PR Company Handout