The British surveillance agency GCHQ has hinted that cryptography enthusiasts determined to complete its complex Christmas puzzle before Sunday’s deadline should work in groups to make it through the five stages of the test.The authors of the fiendish test, which has so far not been completed by anyone, also said entrants were getting too excited about the rumoured prize; the winner would receive “a signed book and some token GCHQ keepsake – maybe a paperweight”.The puzzle was released to the public in the GCHQ Christmas card and later posted on the agency’s website. It has prompted weeks of frustration among the tens of thousands of people who have made it to the final round.Some 30,000 players – about 5% of those who entered the first level – had reached the final stage of the puzzle, which was created by a small team of GCHQ cryptographers. A number of people were “very close” to completing the final puzzle, according to a spokesman for GCHQ, but no answer received so far had been 100% correct.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   GCHQ in Cheltenham. Photograph: Barry Batchelor/PAParticipants must have logic, numeracy, literacy and reasoning skills to make it through the different stages. The spokesman confirmed the puzzle was similar to tests used in past GCHQ recruitment campaigns, and said the team who created the puzzle were “incredibly impressed” by how far some players had got.“It is remarkable how the general public have helped each other – through various groups and online forums – and it’s very encouraging that so many of the general public have got so far though it.”Nearly 600,000 people have attempted to complete the puzzle since its release in early December. Those determined to complete the final stage have until 11.59pm on 31 January to finish. Gareth Moore, secretary of the UK Puzzle Association, said players should approach the puzzle in groups given the diversity of skills needed to make it through the stages.“These are puzzles that would be best solved in groups of people with complementary skills,” he said. “It’s unlikely that any one individual would have all the necessary skills and knowledge and insight on their own.”People attempting the puzzles not only need excellent maths skills but must have a broad knowledge of the English language as well as some French. “You’re basically describing all the skills you’d get from a range of people who work with GCHQ.”Nigel Smart, professor of cryptography at the University of Bristol, said people needed to “think like an adversary” to figure out complex cryptology. “You have to think with deviousness,” he said. “People who are setting you a puzzle are trying to catch you out. It’s like an Agatha Christie novel, you’re trying to guess the solution to the puzzle before the big reveal.”Smart said the GCHQ puzzle was a way to raise the profile of the agency’s cybersecurity work while trying to recruit new cryptological minds. “It’s very similar to how in the second world war Bletchley Park put puzzles in the Times to recruit people. It’s a more traditional way to get people interested in cryptology. It’s also to raise the GCHQ profile and make people think, ‘I could possibly work like this.’”The GCHQ director, Robert Hannigan, said he was delighted so many people had tried to complete the puzzle and said his one clue was “it’s not as abstract as you think”.“What I hope the stages of the puzzle show is that to deliver our mission and keep Britain safe we need people from all backgrounds, with all skills, who look at problems from every angle,” he said in a statement. The agency will publish the complete solution to all stages of the puzzle on its website in early February after all entries have been received. The agency has invited those taking part to make a donation to the children’s charity NSPCC.