Late-night hosts discussed Donald Trump’s barrage of problems as he reached his landmark 100th day in office.On The Late Show, Stephen Colbert brought up Trump’s latest feud with Canada, which he jokingly referred to as “cold Mexico” and “the great white North Korea”.The problems stem from Trump insisting Canada pays high tariffs on the lumber it exports to the US. “As far as I know, this is the first time anyone has rejected Justin Trudeau’s wood,” he said.He then joked: “Trump is now a friend of Putin and an enemy of poutine.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Colbert also discussed Ivanka Trump’s disastrous trip to Germany, noting that her father has yet to travel abroad since he came to power. “Since becoming president, Donald Trump has not left the country – he’s barely left the country club,” he said.She attended a women’s conference in Germany, which led Colbert to call her “the first Trump to attend a women’s conference that didn’t include a swimsuit competition.”The event was aimed at inspiring women. Colbert joked: “The Trump family has a long history of inspiring women: to march, to sue, to flee from a dressing room.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest On The Daily Show, Trevor Noah received a surprise visitor: Donald Trump. Well, Anthony Atamanuik in character as Trump to support his new Comedy Central series, The President Show. Talking about how to pay for the wall between the US and Mexico, he said it was simple. “Totally and completely easy, it’s not complicated at all,” he said. “This is easy stuff people, totally easy. We can tax them, they don’t have to pay with money, we can tax them.”He continued: “We’re going to bring millions and millions of Mexicans into the United States and let them, let them do the low-paying jobs that Americans won’t do and we’re going to save so much money and we can use that to pay for the wall.”After touching Noah’s suit, he joked: “My God, I have pillows with a higher thread count.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest On Late Night with Seth Meyers, the host covered Trump’s speech for Holocaust remembrance day. “He reminded the crowd that we must never forget the 6 million people who attended his inauguration,” Meyers said.There was confusion and derision online on Tuesday over Trump’s strange pronunciation of the word Nazi: “Is it weird that I’m a little relieved he doesn’t know how to say Nazi?” he said.He also brought up confusion over the wall: “First Mexico was going to pay for it, then we were going to pay for it, now nobody’s going to pay for it.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest On The Tonight Show, Jimmy Fallon played a game listing the pros and cons of Trump’s first 100 days. He started by saying: “Pro: 100 days. Con: 99 problems.”He continued: “Pro: he’s promised to take on China. Con: as soon as he learns how to pronounce it.”