God I’m exhausted, are you watching The Crown? It’s amazing, you’ve got such a treat in store, I wasn’t going to, because I’m still finishing season four of Orange Is The New Black, can you believe? I think it’s definitely the best, I heard five is out next June – you know who Piper Chapman is, right? But I thought I’d look and Matt Smith is so brilliant. You completely get that Prince Philip was actually incredibly good-looking, there was this real attraction, then we binge-watched the rest, totally addictive. Don’t talk to me about Matt Smith’s bum, you know his, I mean Prince Philip’s, mother was actually this nun, well, do have a look. If you start now, you’ve only missed 10 hours, we actually think it’s the best thing since House Of Cards. OK, maybe The Sopranos. Or Mad Men, until season three. Seriously? I mean just for Don Draper? I know it’s tricky finding time, but if it’s any good, we watch all night. We just re-binged on The Wire, for the dialogue. Honestly? You have to, David Simon is a genius – I wouldn’t watch anything until I’d seen The Wire. Same with Game Of Thrones. None of it? So what do you do when people talk about Tyrion Lannister, OK, he’s this dwarf, and basically everyone wants the iron throne of the seven kingdoms. It’s unbelievably violent – don’t be put off, I can’t believe I held off until season three. Modern tribes: the discerning dater That’s the brilliant thing about box sets, you can catch up: we’re still alternating Suits with The Fall – Scully from the X-Files meets British Scandi noir? Well, you must have seen The Bridge. Maybe you’re more Borgen, totally addictive – we preferred it to The West Wing, but you have to commit, don’t you, to be part of the conversation, like Lost and Breaking Bad. But how will you follow Better Call Saul if you haven’t watched Breaking Bad? OK, there’s Walter White – he’s this chemistry teacher who gets cancer then… actually, no, why don’t you start with the The Crown before there are too many spoilers? All I’ll say is, it’s about the Queen, I can’t wait to see how it turns out.