The new hit in American nonfiction is Matthew Desmond’s Evicted: Poverty and Profit in the American City. The book follows eight families as they navigate perilous housing situations in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. And it arrived with a strong pedigree: Desmond is a professor of sociology at Harvard, a winner of the MacArthur Genius grant in 2015 for “revealing the impact of eviction on the lives of the urban poor and its role in perpetuating racial and economic inequality”.Published last week, Evicted debuted at No 6 on the New York Times bestseller list. The reviews were all raves. Ours liked it. The New York Times deemed it a “regal hybrid of ethnography and policy reporting”. The Washington Post’s Carlos Lozada began his review in an attitude of prostration: “Thank you for writing about destitution in America with astonishing specificity yet without voyeurism or judgment.”Evicted: Poverty and Profit in the American City by Matthew Desmond – review The book is indeed quite good. Desmond, in his sparing way, has a knack for humanizing his subjects. He has an almost lawyerly way for seeing all the competing good intentions that lead to disaster. He even manages to make what most would term a “slumlord”, a woman he calls Sherrena Tarver, seem reasonable as she is forced to evict a tenant in the opening chapters of the book. “It’s only fair,” she says, and you can see that in her world, she is correct.But the book has a significance beyond its own achievement. It joins what I’ve come to think of as a particular genre: the genteel poverty diorama. Before this book, there was Alice Goffman’s controversial On the Run: Fugitive Life in an American City. Katherine Boo’s Behind the Beautiful Forevers, though set in India, was also a precedent, as was Adrian Nicole LeBlanc’s Random Family. All of these books also have roots in Alex Kotlowitz’s work, particularly his 1991 breakthrough, There Are No Children Here.I want to be clear that in all of these cases, I admire both the writers and the resultant books. These are excellent works of journalism. But there is something odd about the dynamic they reproduce, time and again: the books are heralded for the simplicity of their prose and the generally empathetic style in which they are told. Reviewers and the general public find the stories they tell deeply moving, praise them for surfacing the humanity of an often-demonized population.But rarely do any of these books prompt any real agitation for social change. Something in the telling of these stories seems to uninentionally replicate the general apathy that led America into its storied inequality in the first place. People close the book, place it on the shelf, and continue to keep up with the New York Times’ style section as though nothing at all had been revealed to them.I always watch this cycle thinking two things: one, that it cannot be very satisfying for the writer, who had devoted years to the subject and must by now be an evangelist for limiting the sort of suffering they describe, and two, that I don’t know where and when the muckraking spirit went out of poverty reporting, but it seems to be fully gone.It was not always thus. Poverty reporting in America has a long history, and it is one that is actually tangled up with what some once called yellow journalism. Probably the most famous early example was the work of a man named Jacob Riis. Writing for the New York Tribune, Riis thunderously chronicled the abject residents of the Lower East Side. He published books about them too, beginning with How the Other Half Lives. You can read How the Other Half Lives on Project Gutenberg. The introduction begins in unabashed editorial complaint about the complacency of the upper classes: Long ago it was said that “one half of the world does not know how the other half lives”. That was true then. It did not know because it did not care. The half that was on top cared little for the struggles, and less for the fate of those who were underneath, so long as it was able to hold them there and keep its own seat. There came a time when the discomfort and crowding below were so great, and the consequent upheavals so violent, that it was no longer an easy thing to do, and then the upper half fell to inquiring what was the matter. Information on the subject has been accumulating rapidly since, and the whole world has had its hands full answering for its old ignorance.This kind of hectoring is absent from most poverty reporting now. In Evicted, for example, while an epilogue draws out the problems of the evicted into a general case for a roof over everyone’s head – “The home is the wellspring of personhood,” Desmond writes – it seems afraid to actually cajole anyone into doing anything specific. Desmond appears, at one point, to be about to get saucy: “There are losers and winners,” he adds. “There are losers because there are winners.” But instead of naming names, we get a lot of disembodied talk about “extractive markets”.I do not think that writers such as Desmond are being naive or duplicitous here at all, only reacting to a reality of their genre. The reluctance of poverty journalists to outright shame the rich has an obvious source: the intended audience. Where once a Riis was writing for a general bourgeois public, these books are now marketed to people for whom the life of the poor in this country is a remote subject, requiring “humanization” and “study” rather than material support. Maybe this is an inevitable consequence of deep inequality in America – that even documenting the lives of the poor would become an act of translation across an abyss. But whatever its inevitability, this sort of book increasingly doesn’t feel like an attempt at a solution.