I’ve always been a worrier. My earliest memories are of worrying about things – whether I would ever be able to get my dummy out from behind the radiator where I had hidden it, whether I would be all right if I wasn’t wearing my favourite yellow jumper, whether giving my cuddly monkey a radical haircut had been a mistake, whether God could see me on my potty. I remember having a sleepless night during my first week at school and when my mum came to see what was wrong, I sobbed “Tomorrow I’ve got to write my name AND stick it on my tray – I just don’t know how I’m going to get it all done!” Life can be overwhelming, but you are not alone. There are plenty of characters in children’s literature who worry and who fret but who also manage to conquer their fears. 1. Piglet in AA Milne’s Winnie the Pooh books I adore Piglet. He is Pooh’s best friend and is a small, timid, squeaky voiced creature who is scared of heffalumps and woozles amongst many other things.“’Supposing a tree fell down, Pooh, when we were underneath it?’‘Supposing it didn’t,’ said Pooh after careful thought.Piglet was comforted by this.”We all need a friend like Pooh.Emily Gravett's animals – in pictures 2. Little Mouse in Little Mouse’s Big Book of Fears by Emily Gravett This is a fabulous book with maps and newspaper cuttings and photos and postcards and all sorts of surprises inside (all of which Little Mouse has had an anxious nibble on). Little Mouse is scared of lots and lots of things and marvels over the fact that even though he is very small and very scared, there are people who are scared of him.Mick and Chloe Inkpen’s top 10 author/illustrator pairings in picture books 3. The Thing in Emily Brown and the Thing by Cressida Cowell, illustrated by Neal Layton This is a wonderful story about a small girl dealing with a very high maintenance monster called the Thing. It’s funny, it’s got twists and turns and shows us, among other things, that we can spend far too much time nurturing our fears rather than trying to conquer them.4. The Rabbit in The Black Rabbit by Phillipa LeathersThe Black Rabbit is a fantastic book about a rabbit who is scared of his own shadow. He does everything he can to escape from his shadow (running away, jumping into the river etc) but it is always right behind him. The illustrations are stunning and the story has a wonderful ending.Lola Rose by Jacqueline Wilson - review 5. Lola Rose in Lola Rose by Jacqueline WilsonI could really have picked any Jacqueline Wilson character although I have a particular fondness for Lola. There is no other writer who tackles such difficult subjects with her characters facing genuinely frightening and difficult situations – and yet she does so with such warmth and reassurance. I’m sure she has done more to help anxious and frightened children than any other author.Six of the best picture books 6. The Owl in A Bit Lost by Chris Haughton A Bit Lost is a book that covers the familiar ground of an animal who has (temporarily) lost his mother. But Chris Haughton does it with remarkably few words, terrific illustrations and great humour.7. The Owl in The Owl Who was Afraid of the Dark by Jill Tomlinson, illustrated by Paul HowardPlop is scared of the dark, which isn’t ideal when you’re an owl. But then he meets a sequence of people who convince him that dark is exciting, kind, fun, necessary, fascinating, wonderful and beautiful. By the end, Plop has changed his mind - so much so that when his father reminds him of his fear of the dark, he says “That was a long time ago!”Lucy Coats's top 10 bear picture books 8. Little Bear in Can’t You Sleep, Little Bear? By Martin Waddell, illustrated by Barbara FirthLittle Bear is another creature who is scared of the dark. Big Bear does everything he can to help Little Bear get to sleep. He lights lantern after lantern but Little Bear is still scared and still cannot sleep. Finally Big Bear realises the answer is not to try to escape from or remove the dark – but to carry Little Bear right out into it.9. The Squirrel in Scaredy Squirrel by Melanie WattsScaredy Squirrel is scared of the unknown and Martians and killer bees and especially germs. Melanie Watt’s drawings are absolutely magnificent and the squirrel is a wonderful creation who discovers that hiding and avoiding your fears often brings more trouble than facing them.10. Wilson in Whiffy Wilson by Caryl Hart, illustrated by Leonie LordThis is one of my favourite books. It is about a Wolf who is scared of baths. I read it to my stinky children a lot. It is a rhyming story, skilfully written and with superb illustrations. I hope Scaredy Squirrel never meets Whiffy Wilson because“His fur was full of beastiesHe had fungus on his toesHe ate his dinner with his pawsThen wiped them on his clothes”Luckily his friend Dotty has a solution.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Wilf Battles a Pirate by Georgia PritchettSo those are some of my fellow worriers that I have enjoyed reading about. Of course, being a worrier I am very worried that I have missed one out. In fact I’m sure I have. Maybe other readers can help…Georgia Pritchett is a TV comedy writer and the author of the Wilf series of books. The latest Wilf book is Wilf the Mighty Worrier: Battles a Pirate. Buy it at the Guardian bookshop.