Nectar and pollen plantsThere's something almost decadent about lazing in a deckchair on a hot summer's day, half falling asleep to the sound of bees buzzing on lavender. While they're gathering food to take back to the nest, doggedly visiting flower after flower to drink nectar and comb pollen onto little baskets on their hind legs, we're just sunbathing. But this act of lying in the sun listening to bees is one of the most important things we can do, because if we lie in the sun and don't hear bees, there's something wrong. At least that's what I tell myself!Bumblebees, butterflies and moths have suffered dramatic declines in recent years, while honeybees continue to be affected by problems such as colony collapse disorder and the parasitic varroa mite. Many other insects that depend on nectar and pollen – including solitary bees and pollinating beetles – are also declining. Gardeners can help reverse these declines, simply by growing more flowering plants. It's that easy. The greater the range we grow, the more pollinators we attract. It's important to provide nectar and pollen for as long as possible. Some bees are now active throughout winter, while other pollinators may emerge from hibernation early, tempted out on warm days in late winter, when food is often in short supply. Then, in autumn, many insects need to build up their reserves before entering hibernation. So just by growing the right plants for as long a season as possible, we can dramatically improve our pollinators' chances of survival. Nectar and pollen offer different types of sustenance, the first is a source of carbohydrate and the second a source of protein. Nectar is essentially sugar and water, and is produced by plants to lure insects to pollinate them. Pollen is roughly equivalent to sperm, and is used to fertilise flowers and produce seed. Bees drink nectar and collect pollen, and in so doing they transfer small amounts of pollen from anthers to stigmas and fertilise the flowers. While nectar is pretty much the same whichever flower it comes from, pollen can vary in quality. Pollen is fed to the grubs back in the nest or hive and – for some species – the quality and amount of pollen they eat can determine their size, health and vigour as adults. Some plants produce top-notch pollen, while others are a bit mediocre. The best source comes from plants in the legume family, including the peas and beans in your veg patch. Red clover (Trifolium pratense), kidney vetch (Anthyllis vulneraria), bird's-foot trefoil (Lotus corniculatus) and tufted vetch (Vicia cracca) are also legumes and are therefore excellent sources of pollen. Native or non-native?Many wildlife gardeners extol the virtues of growing native plants, while others claim it's not necessary at all. But, as far as pollinators are concerned, if the flowers have a good source of pollen and nectar which can be accessed easily, non-native plants are great. In fact, non-native plants can extend the season for pollinators, helping those that rise early in the year and go to bed late. Non-European plants that are fantastic for many of our pollinators include anise hyssop (Agastache foeniculum), bergamot (Monarda fistulosa), Michaelmas daisies (Aster novae-angliae), hebes, Penstemon heterophyllus, scorpion weed (Phacelia tanacetifolia) and Verbena bonariensis.That said, don't lose sight of the fact that our pollinators have evolved a complex relationship with certain plants over millennia, so it's worth growing some native plants, especially those local to you. What's more, some bees are fussier than others, and so feed on a much smaller range of plants than more generalist feeders, which feed on a wide range. These specialists aren't common garden visitors, but if you live near a nature reserve, well-managed arable area or brownfield site, you never know what might turn up. Grow a patch of red clover (Trifolium pratense) and keep an eye out for unusual visitors. Some more exotic plants have evolved to be pollinated by birds. These include kniphofias, phormiums and cannas. Generalist feeders like the honeybee might have a stab at feeding from them, but the honeybee represents a tiny proportion of European pollinators. If you have a small garden, it's best to grow plants that evolved to be pollinated by insects, as they will provide food for a greater number of species. Why pollinators choose certain flowersPollinating insects choose flowers that can accommodate their mouthparts or length of tongue (proboscis). You may have a little ginger bumblebee, called the common carder, visiting your garden. This has quite a long tongue, so can reach the nectaries of foxgloves (Digitalis) and honeysuckle (Lonicera), while those with shorter tongues tend to visit cranesbills (Geranium), lavender (Lavandula) and daisies. The tongue lengths of butterflies vary too, while hoverflies have a sponge-like proboscis, which they dab over flat, daisy-like flowers. A good rule of thumb is to grow the greatest variety of flowers possible for the greatest number of pollinators. What not to grow As well as knowing which plants feed pollinators, it's important to recognise those that aren't so good. Many garden favourites, such as begonias, pelargoniums (often called geraniums), petunias and pansies (Viola), are bred to be resistant to disease, flower for a long time, have multicoloured stripes or some other "wow" factor. They survive well in drought, flower from early summer to the first frosts and provide a cheap burst of colour. However, they don't do what they're supposed to: feed bees and butterflies. Double-flowered plants are also useless in this respect. Like a closed shop, they may be packed with pollen and nectar, but no one can get to the goods.• The Wildlife Gardener by Kate Bradbury published by Kyle Books, priced £14.99. Order it from the Guardian Bookshop for £11.99. Photography: Julie Watson