One of the (many) benefits of being a successful artist is the accrual of cultural capital and collective goodwill. Someone with a hit has the opportunity to make a passion project or God forbid, a solo album. Sometimes that passion leads to a miniseries about stoners exploring civilization’s history of oppression using a highly technologically advanced implement for smoking marijuana.In this case, the hit that paved the way for Time Traveling Bong is Broad City, the wildly successful comedy about two young women navigating New York while smoking copious quantities of bud. Time Traveling Bong comes from three of the primary creative talents behind the show: star and co-creator Ilana Glazer, Paul Downs, a Broad City writer who also plays Trey, Abbi’s boss-turned love interest, and writer-director Lucia Aniello. The initial seed for the miniseries came from a conversation in which Glazer recounted a professor’s explanation of “how terrible the past smelled”, leading to a discussion of what it would be like if time travelers were high. (The show spends a lot of time mocking its premise, and includes a joke that’s all but explicit in acknowledging the absurdity of its very existence.)Time Traveling Bong: stoner comedy is smarter than it needs to be Those time travelers are Jeff (Downs) and Sharee (Glazer): cousins, roommates and self-described “New Jersey dildos”. Jeff is a slob with ideals, the type of guy who spends most of his time sitting on the couch masturbating but bemoans internet dating because the connections aren’t “authentic”. He claims to have been “born in the wrong decade”. (This is never confirmed in the series, but it’s more than possible that Jeff is hiding a closetful of fedoras.) Sharee, meanwhile, starts off the miniseries a far cry from Glazer’s normal comic persona. When we meet her she has straight hair, is deeply sexually frustrated and lives in thrall to a piggish, married cop boyfriend who is literally introduced wearing an All Lives Matter T-shirt.This costuming choice is indicative of a show that has at least a bit more on its mind than the next hit. Sharee and Jeff travel to a series of eras with, to put it lightly, unpleasant conditions for most people. They witness much of the history of American racism, casual misogyny and sexual harassment, and sustained torture in the name of superstition when they accidentally kick off the Salem witch trials. (There was real torture in this sequence, too: Downs recounts filming in below-freezing, Revenant-style conditions in Plymouth, Massachusetts.) As Aniello puts it, the show uses the past to demonstrate “how privileged we are to live in an era with modern medicine and plumbing”. Downs echoes the Louis CK bit about time travel, noting that “it’s kinda always sucked unless you were a white guy”. And, they suggest, it might suck again soon: Jeff and Sharee wind up in an uncomfortably grounded dystopian future where the planet is too hot for farming.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ilana Glazer in episode one of Time Traveling Bong. Photograph: Claire Folger/Comedy CentralAs silly as most of Time Traveling Bong is, its best moments are kind of depressing. When Jeff and Sharee appear on a functioning plantation amid working slaves, they look at each other and grimace, as if they were caught in an uncomfortable dinner party rather than witness to one of the greatest injustices in human history. At one point, there’s the suggestion that cousins Jeff and Sharee might have slept together (and engaged in some light butt play), and it’s still less gross than most of the oppression they’ve encountered. And the nuggets of seriousness in Time Traveling Bong’s future make it more chilling than a slew of YA dystopias, precisely because it sounds so much like the present. Aniello notes that they tried to envision the natural conclusions of American debt to China, Citizens United and climate change’s effect on crop production – especially weed.Still, nearly everything else about Time Traveling Bong is extremely refreshing in its blunt silliness, from the title on up. Kidnapping a young Michael Jackson? Sure! Ridiculous CGI sequences of Jeff and Sharee flying through the time-space vortex? While Sharee eventually dumps her awful boyfriend, Jeff’s arc, such as there is one, involves learning how to masturbate without the use of high-quality porn. Thankfully, Time Traveling Bong is, essentially, what you expect from its title – it still boils down to what Downs describes as “Quantum Leap for stoners”. The presence of both tones is the only reason the thing works: Time Traveling Bong is a ridiculous stoner comedy, but it’s also about how the present, as awful as it may seem, really isn’t so bad.Like a less self-serious Doctor Who, Time Traveling Bong gets to explore different eras of history: its educational genre entertainment for the adult stoner’s inner child. And, like Doctor Who, it might just extend its existence beyond all expectations of plausibility. Aniello namechecks two stories they’d still like to tell, which really push on the uncomfortable undertones of many of the bits: Jeff getting the Virgin Mary pregnant and Sharee causing Beethoven’s deafness. Would a sequel to this miniseries even make sense? Would it be too gross to imagine Jeff as the father of Christ? Does it matter? It’s a miniseries called Time Traveling Bong. You can think harder about it when you’re sober.