Who are they?Millennials are currently aged 20-35, or born between 1980 and the end of 1994 (with some more generous definitions taking in those born up to 2000). They also get called Generation Y, because they follow on from Generation X (born 1965-1979), and other, less flattering names.How many millennials are there?What do others think of them?Type “Generation Y are” into your search bar and Google suggests the following ends to your query: “generation y are lazy”, “idiots” and “unhappy”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Millennials on their critics: ‘I’m offended’ - videoThough to be fair Google autocompletes a search on baby boomers (born 1946-1964) in similarly unflattering ways, offering: “baby boomers are to blame”, “selfish”, “the worst generation” and “entitled”. Gen X fare better.Millennials are accused of being lazy, self-involved, cosseted, politically apathetic narcissists, who aren’t able to function without a smartphone and who live in a state of perpetual adolescence, incapable of commitment.One commentator has called them “Generation Y-ny [whiny]”, another common epithet is Generation Me, though Time magazine didn’t think this quite captured the self-obsession of the generation and beefed it up to Generation Me, Me, Me as the headline of their feature on them.By other accounts, they are a generation marked by creativity, flexibility, open-mindedness, a strong sense of social responsibility and concern for the environment. But that makes for less interesting headlines.Gen Y living at homeWhat do they think of themselves?Perhaps because they are such a maligned bunch, millennials tend to have a much more negative self-image than other generations do. “Self absorbed” was how 59% of millennials described their own generation and 49% said they were “wasteful”, compared with about 30% of Gen X-ers and 20% of baby boomers who were willing to ascribe these terms to their generation.So pervasive is their negative view of themselves that many in Generation Y don’t want to be identified as such. Nearly two-thirds don’t consider themselves to belong to that generation, though this might partly be because of a confusion of categories, with 33% not realising they were millennials and believing instead that they belonged to Generation X.What are their issues?Spanning 15 years, different social classes, cultures and continents, it is ridiculous to imagine that millennials have a unified identity. In the UK, there are 13.8 million millennials, and a 20-year-old in Ipswich is no doubt facing vastly different issues to a 35-year-old in Glasgow, and that’s without even looking beyond the borders of the UK. As one Guardian reader wrote to us when asked to describe the main issues facing Gen Y in his country: “You want me to sum up the main issues facing an entire generation in an entire country? That sounds less scientific than a fucking horoscope, you mad bastards.” Fair point.What are their issues?But there are broader economic and political issues that have unified the generation in some ways. Many have graduated into a severe economic recession, they were the guinea pigs of extraordinary technological change, and have spent their formative years living under the pall of terrorism. Gen Y marrying ageReaders also wrote to tell us about the lack of opportunities in Mexico, socio-political turmoil in Romania, political disenfranchisement in the Philippines and unemployment levels in Spain, so high that millennials feel lucky to have a job earning as little as €600 (£465) a month. In the US they are crippled by debt and stagnant wages, in the UK they have been hit with high house prices, which have locked them out of home ownership and into extortionate, dismal rental arrangements.Throughout the Gen Y series we will be hearing some of these stories, about the issues millennials face, as well as examining exclusive data which tells us some things about this generation and how it compares to those that came before. The key finding? They are not doing well. They are, as Guardian journalist Shiv Malik wrote, the Jilted Generation, who are set to be the first generation to do worse than its parents as far back as data goes.Gen Y becoming parents      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Read on: The trials of Generation Y - the full series