In 1964 the Staple Singers – myself, my sister, my father and brother – were invited to play the Newport folk festival [in Rhode Island]. At that point we had never done a folk festival or even really heard folk music before, so it was quite an experience for me. We were strictly gospel back then and didn’t really listen to anything except church music. My father didn’t even allow us to listen to blues or R&B on the radio at home, although when we were at school we would sneak out and listen to James Brown on the jukebox. But my head was into gospel, and learning all the gospel songs – Mahalia Jackson was my absolute favourite, my idol back then.  Mavis Staples: ‘I hold it dear that we were the first black artists to appear there’ Photograph: Chris StrongSo when we arrived at Newport it was quite an awakening to see all the folk singers singing about Jesus, coming together; loving one another. We realised it was very similar to gospel, and after that we started to record folk songs.That was a big part of our music becoming more political. There was no politics in gospel, but these songs had stories like “Something’s happening here/ What it is ain’t exactly clear/ There’s a man with a gun over there/ Telling me, I’ve got to beware.” Songs like that: A Hard Rain’s A-Gonna Fall, Masters of War. We started telling songwriters that, if they wanted to write songs for us, they had to read the headlines. My father wrote Why (Am I Treated So Bad)?, for the nine black children who successfully registered at Little Rock [Central High School in 1957]. That became Dr [Martin Luther] King’s favourite.In 1964 I was only 25, a young lady, and it was one of the happiest weekends of my life. The folk crowd called themselves the flower children, and they really were. Everything was so colourful, with their tie-dye shirts. We were used to performing in long gowns and heels, and my brother and father would wear suits and ties, but when we saw the folk people in their long dresses and jeans we caught on pretty quick.We met so many wonderful artists at Newport, including Bob Dylan and Buffy Sainte-Marie. We rode in a car to the festival with Johnny Cash. And I thought Joan Baez was just beautiful. She sang soft but meaningful songs, and wore this long braid in her hair.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Bob Dylan perform at Newport folk festival in 1964.We were staying in a motel, but a lot of the other artists were staying in these big houses, and at the end of the day they’d let it be known where everyone was going to be.They’d sit around on the floor with their acoustic guitars and we’d all sing Kumbaya together. Apart from when we played in churches in the Deep South and it was all black, we were used to mixed audiences, but I didn’t see a single black face at Newport. We didn’t pay it any attention: I don’t remember us even discussing it at the time. But Pete Seeger was there and at the end of his shows he’d get us on stage to sing We Shall Overcome with him. It felt good that white people knew our cause. I hold it dear that we were the first black artists to appear there.Later on you’d see black people at folk festivals, but not in 1964. I don’t think we had anything to do with it – they just got hip to folk music. We’ve been back a lot to Newport, and stayed in touch with so many people: I celebrated my 75th birthday there two years ago, and later this year I’m going to sing at Joan Baez’s 75th birthday in New York. I’ll cherish that first weekend in Newport forever.Interview by Ed CummingsMavis Staples’s album Livin’ on a High Note is out 19 February (Anti). A documentary feature film, Mavis!, is released on the same day