MondayAfter getting lost on a west London industrial estate following Tory MP Stephen Hammond, whom I imagined knew where he was going, I eventually made it to a community centre in Harrow, from which all members of the community had been excluded for Theresa May’s event to introduce all the Conservative candidates for London and the south-east. (All the candidates except Boris Johnson, that is, who was either missing or hadn’t been invited.) Not that the word Conservative was ever mentioned. All the placards were for “Theresa May’s Team”. The candidates were arranged in a small square in the middle of the near empty hall; on three sides the chosen ones were almost exclusively white and male, while the side facing the TV cameras featured a high proportion of women, along with a few people from ethnic minorities. Diversity in action. UK general election: week four on the campaign trail – in pictures The prime minister gave a short, disjointed speech in which she said the words “strong and stable”, and ended by saying she wouldn’t be taking part in the TV debates as she was too busy debating elsewhere. Moments later she was whisked away in a police convoy, having not even had a conversation with any of her own people. No one batted an eyelid. This is all perfectly normal behaviour for the current campaign.TuesdayPeople on social media have been getting very sniffy about David Beckham’s acting debut, playing Trigger the battleguard in his friend Guy Ritchie’s new movie King Arthur: Legend of the Sword, after clips went viral online ahead of its release next week. Personally, I can’t see what all the fuss is about. Beckham looks very nice in his distressed S&M armour. And when Arthur asks where he wants him as he prepares to pull Excalibur from the stone, he carries off his lines – “Bouncing on my knee? Where do you think I want you? Hands on the hilt ... Both hands” – with his trademark diffident squeak. His performance certainly doesn’t seem to suffer in comparison with anyone else in the film, so to pick on Becks seems rather unfair. But then, films do polarise audiences. Having read several enthusiastic reviews – including one in this paper – about the new British comedy thriller Mindhorn, I went to see it at the cinema with a friend last weekend. Despite a cameo from Steve Coogan, who remains a class act in Sky Atlantic’s The Trip, I think the final tally between the two of us was three laughs and no thrills. Maybe we were just in the wrong mood.WednesdayThe Danish restaurant Noma, which has been named best in the world four times, has just opened a pop-up branch near the Mayan ruins of Tulum on Mexico’s Caribbean coast. For just $600 a head – not forgetting to add 16% tax and 9% service charge – Mexicans can enjoy such hyper-local delights as banana ceviche and octopus in pumpkin seed sauce. Or not, as the minimum daily wage is less than $5. This has led some critics to accuse Noma of “gastronomical colonialism”. Which rather seems to miss the point: McDonald’s has already cornered that market and the real crime is that it is just ridiculously expensive. Even back in Copenhagen, where the standard of living is much higher, the Noma menu is prohibitively expensive and beyond the price bracket of at least 99% of the population. And of the 1% for whom money is no object, I’d bet at least three-quarters would think twice about going, as they don’t fancy eating a bouillon of steamed birchwood with jus de earthworm. Whatever the hype, and wherever it pops up, Noma is always going to be about serving a niche market.ThursdayAs if Labour didn’t have enough problems trying to convince Middle England it can be trusted with the country’s security, it couldn’t even manage to stop its own draft election manifesto being leaked. No one quite seems to know whether the leak came from someone anxious to get the document watered down into something less radical, or from someone in the leader’s office who wanted to get the manifesto into the public domain before anyone from the right wing of the party could get their hands on it. To make things even more confusing, it’s also possible that both are true: four different versions of the manifesto of varying lengths were leaked to the Guardian, the Telegraph, the Mirror and the BBC, so it might be easier to start looking for the one person who didn’t leak it than the army of people who did. Jeremy Corbyn said he was pleased the manifesto was out there. John McDonnell called the leak “disappointing”. I call it shambolic.FridayI expect I will, in time, come to love the new stadium and its artisan bakery when Spurs move there in a year’s time, but right now, as the club prepares for its last fixture at White Hart Lane on Sunday, my main feeling is of sadness. The ground has been part of my life for decades and I’ve sat in the same seat for every home game for more years than I care to remember. I will miss the people around me as much as the stadium’s atmosphere. There are the fabulous four guys right behind me who, without fail, always arrive two minutes after kick-off and can’t understand why the game has started without them. There’s the bloke with the hip flask who always has a hefty half-time drink to get him through the pain of the second half. There’s the man who sits three seats along who, 10 minutes into every game, starts moaning that no one on the team is concentrating and is never happy even when Spurs are cruising with a 3-0 lead. Some of my happiest – and most painful – memories have been made at White Hart Lane and I wouldn’t have wanted to share them with anyone else.Digested week digested: The May Team      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I didn’t think we were going to get a live TV debate’: Pink Floyd: Their Mortal Remains at the V&A in London. Photograph: Tim P. Whitby/Getty Images