Amazing Spaces Shed of the Year8pm, Channel 4Sheds. What mystical appeal they hold for the Brits. Some of the ones featured in this contest are downright magical, including Kevin’s “west wing”, an extraordinary, recycled wooden wonderland costing just £1,500, that you will want to live in immediately. Elsewhere, Peter and Erica’s hydraulic shed helps protect their belongings from floods, while Jamie has a “haunted chapel”. Blooming marvellous. Ali CatterallHighlands: Scotland’s Wild Heart9pm, BBC2Like its (excellent) predecessor, Hebrides, this series will consider each season in turn before taking a look at the local people. It begins with spring, which seems unusually miraculous in the Scottish wilds, beginning with the torching of heather to promote growth. Luxuriantly photographed deer, squirrel and osprey are among the creatures that descend. Ewan McGregor narrates, probably inevitably. Andrew Mueller       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tamsin Greig in Friday Night Dinner. Photograph: Mark JohnsonFriday Night Dinner10pm, Channel 4A comedy about a Jewish family who gather for a Shabbat meal each week could become repetitive. Thankfully, creator Robert Popper and co continue to find new ways for the Goodmans to humiliate one another and themselves. This week, Adam has won an award for composing advert music, but his celebrations are overshadowed when Jonny returns from America a married man. Hannah J DaviesRio 201611.40pm, BBC1Can it really be four years since that joyful night in Stratford when previously sceptical Brits suddenly realised that hosting the Olympics might actually be fun? As the youth of the world gather in Rio, Brazil badly needs a Danny Boyle to provide a similarly bracing and moving opening ceremony. Step forward Fernando Meirelles, Andrucha Waddington and Daniela Thomas, the trio charged tonight with introducing Rio to the expectant globe. A party surely looms. Phil HarrisonChampionship football: Fulham vs Newcastle United7pm, Sky Sports 1A new season beckons. Recently relegated Newcastle are the latest big fish plummeting into the deceptively deep Championship pond, with Rafa Benítez aiming to emerge with three early points. A similarly dispiriting campaign for the Cottagers last time left plenty to improve on in SW6, but with Slaviša Jokanović having previously propelled Watford to promotion, victory for the Toon isn’t necessarily assured. Mark Gibbings JonesBBC Proms 2016: Tchaikovsky Violin Concerto7.30pm, BBC4Prom 27 is led by the BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra’s chief conductor in waiting, Thomas Dausgaard. As well as Tchaikovsky’s Violin Concerto, featuring Finnish soloist Pekka Kuusisto, there’s a chance to hear Petrushka, one of Stravinsky’s ballet scores. The concert kicks off with a new BBC commission from Helen Grime titled Two Eardley Pictures – I: Catterline In Winter, inspired by the landscape paintings of Joan Eardley. Jonathan WrightMunich ’72 And Beyond9pm, PBS AmericaIt is certainly the bleakest story in modern Olympic history, and the wounds of the 1972 attack by Palestinian terrorists on the Israeli Olympic team remain raw. This documentary is notable for featuring moving contributions from bereaved family members but, unusually for a PBS film, it feels slightly rushed. Context, actual events, multiple perspectives and the long, lingering aftermath feel like a lot to cram into less than an hour. Phil HarrisonFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Brilliantly compelling: Inception. Photograph: Melissa Moseley SMPSPInception, (Christopher Nolan, 2010), 10.25pm, Sky Cinema SpiesNolan’s scintillating, cerebral sci-fi combines the kinetic violence of his Batman films with the complexity of Memento. Leonardo DiCaprio is Cobb, a spy who breaks into people’s minds; he’s commissioned by Ken Watanabe’s mysterious magnate to carry out an “inception” – infiltrating layers of dream-within-dream to plant an idea of sabotage in the head of business rival Cillian Murphy. A brilliantly compelling drama. Paul Howlett