Shia LaBeouf has spoken of his disappointment at the experience of working with the director Steven Spielberg.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Shia LaBeouf. Photograph: Roger Askew/Rex Shutterstock“I grew up with this idea, if you got to Spielberg, that’s where it is,” LaBeouf told Variety. “[Then] you get there, and you realise you’re not meeting the Spielberg you dream of. You’re meeting a different Spielberg, who is in a different stage in his career. He’s less a director than he is a fucking company.”  The only movie I liked that we made together was Transformers 1 LaBeouf explained that he found the attention to detail difficult while shooting with the director. “Spielberg’s sets are very different,” he said. “Everything has been so meticulously planned. You got to get this line out in 37 seconds. You do that for five years, you start to feel like not knowing what you’re doing for a living.“I don’t like the movies that I made with Spielberg,” he continued. “The only movie I liked that we made together was Transformers 1.”    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The enjoyable one …watch the trailer for TransformersSpielberg produced the robots-in-disguise movies; the second of these was one of the films in which LaBeouf absented himself during a performance art piece in which he rewatched all his old films with an audience. Spielberg also produced the conspiracy thriller Eagle Eye in which the actor starred.LaBeouf said that despite 2008’s Indiana Jones and the Crystal Skull taking $800m, hostile reviews for the film had affected him deeply. “I prepped for a year and a half and then the movie comes out, and it’s your fault,” said the actor. “That shit hurt bad.” His director cautioned him not to read his own press, but LaBeouf refused to take the advice, saying: “There’s no way to not do that. For me to not read that means I need to not take part in society.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘No disrespect’ … Steven Spielberg. Photograph: Steven Senne/APIn the years immediately following the film’s release, LaBeouf laid blame for its poor reception at his and Spielberg’s feet. “I feel like I dropped the ball on the legacy that people loved and cherished,” he said. “I have a relationship with Steven that supersedes our business work. And believe me, I talk to him often enough to know that I’m not out of line. And I would never disrespect the man. But when you drop the ball you drop the ball.”In 2011, his co-star in the film, Harrison Ford, called LaBeouf “a fucking idiot” for his words. “As an actor,” he said, “I think it’s my obligation to support the film without making a complete ass of myself.”