I am not a mother, but I know a few. After close observation, I have concluded that, even if I had pushed a screaming baby out of my own (nonexistent) womb, I wouldn’t enjoy Mother’s Day. It must be nice to have your kids tell you how much they adore you, but it’s only one day a year, and the evidence of the other 364 is that the younger ones in particular would happily swap you for a Kinder Egg.And it’s not as if they pull out all the stops. Most mothers know what this Sunday holds in store: a tacky card, a few daffodils wrenched from the garden and a badly made breakfast in bed. Wham, bam, thank you, Mum.But it doesn’t have to be like that. I have just spent an afternoon helping my six-year-old stepdaughter create a meal for her mother. And not just any meal, but a stylish-looking “bouquet” made of sushi. The ordeal – sorry, the experience – definitely brought the three of us closer together. I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys shouting at children.Flo and I start with 400g of sushi rice – short-grained, slightly sweet and, in case you’re sceptical about recipes with hard-to-find ingredients, available from many supermarkets. After washing it several times, we put it in a pan with 525g water and bring it to a boil. Once it has simmered for 10 minutes with the lid on, we turn off the heat and leave it to stand for half an hour, then tip it into a bowl to cool.While this is going on, we prepare the other ingredients: five or six sheets of nori, the dried seaweed that will hold the rice; nuggets of cucumber and avocado to stuff inside it; wasabi paste to add a little fire; and the slivers of raw fish that will make everything more exciting. Only the freshest will do, so I have had to visit a proper fishmonger and ask for sushi-grade tuna and mackerel. If that’s not an option, the Japanese food specialist Yutaka, whose recipe we’re adapting, recommends crab sticks or smoked salmon.Our tuna, by the way, costs £35 a kilo. If you’re wondering about the wisdom of spending that kind of money to feed a child, remember that, in theory, you’re doing this for her mother. And be prepared to push away grabby hands. I’m not saying that Flo is a greedy little pig, but the one and only time she told me she loved me, she immediately followed up with, “… and I love cheese. Can I ’ave some cheese?”Then come the decorations: a little gem lettuce, which just has to be broken up into individual leaves, and thin slices of courgette, carrot and beetroot, which Flo stamps into assorted shapes with the smallest pastry cutters we can find, stuffing as many as she can into her mouth along the way.How hard is it to be a chef and a mother with young children? The shapes that survive this treatment are threaded on to cocktail sticks, two or three contrasting colours on each stick, to form little flowers. Then more carrots, courgettes and beetroots are turned into long strips with the help of a spiraliser, with Flo manically cranking the handle while I yell at her to slow down and watch out for the razor-sharp blades and she pretends to be deaf. More veg finds its way into her gaping maw, although she declares that beetroot, which she hasn’t tasted, is “disgusting”, and spits out the “cucumber” she is enjoying when I remind her that it’s courgette.Cooking can be relaxing, but not in these conditions. At the end, however, we have some impressive piles of vegetable ribbons. I have to physically restrain my sous-chef from plunging her hands into them.The rice is cool now, so we mix together 5tbsp rice vinegar, 3¼tbsp sugar and 1½tsp salt and fold this in once the solid ingredients have dissolved. This quickly creates a sticky mass that needs to be manipulated with wet hands – but that’s OK, as we want it to keep its shape.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Flo with the results … happy Mother’s Day. Photograph: Sophia Evans for the ObserverNow we can finally assemble the bouquet, which is a relief because Flo has been asking about this every 30 seconds. I curl the first nori sheet into a Cornetto-style cone in my hand, then chuck it away because I have cracked it. (Don’t even think of getting your own child to do this, unless they are freakishly dextrous and big-handed.) The second is more successful and, with a little gentle prodding and a lot of furious screaming, I coax Flo into moistening her hands and filling it with rice.When the cone is about half-full, we add some cucumber, some fish and some wasabi, before topping the cone with another handful of rice, a mass of spiralised carrot and a cocktail-stick flower. By now, the moisture in the rice has bound the nori together. We carefully place the completed cone on a plate, and start the next, which we decorate with a different mix of vegetables and a few lettuce leaves. Once we have assembled five of these things, the bouquet – it’s more like a bunch of bouquets – looks like something you would get from a cutting-edge florist, the kind that stocks miniature cabbages but no carnations. To finish it off, we wind some pretty wrapping paper around the whole thing.Hannah – Flo’s mum – couldn’t be more delighted when we present it to her. Now the bickering is all over, she can finally get a little peace.