Twitter shares surged more than 20% on the New York stock exchange on Friday morning, following reports that the social media company has received takeover approaches from Google, Salesforce and other technology companies.Shares in Twitter rose by $3.93, or 21%, to $22.56 in early trading after CNBC reported that the Silicon Valley firm had “received expressions of interest from several technology or media companies and may receive a formal bid shortly”. Twitter, which had initially proved wildly popular with users and investors, has struggled recently to maintain its early momentum. User growth has stagnated and its shares had fallen by 30% over the past year before Friday’s rumour sparked a surge.Twitter, Salesforce and Google’s parent company Alphabet, did not respond to immediate requests for comment.Speculation has been rife in recent months that Twitter, which was founded in 2006, had been preparing itself for a sale. Silicon Valley cloud computing company Salesforce has been seen as a likely buyer after it lost out on the battle to buy the corporate social network LinkedIn, which was taken over by Microsoft in a $26.2bn (£20.1bn) deal in June. Shortly after the news broke Vala Afshar, Salesforce’s “chief digital evangelist”, tweeted: Vala Afshar (@ValaAfshar)Why @twitter?1 personal learning network2 the best realtime, context rich news3 democratize intelligence4 great place to promote othersSeptember 23, 2016Shares in Salesforce fell 4.9% to $70.92 as investors weighed up the cost of buying Twitter, which has a market value of almost $16bn. Salesforce is valued at $49.6bn.Twitter floated on the stock market in November 2013 at a $26 per share valuation, and its shares rose to as high as $69 by the end of the year. But since then it has struggled to deliver on promised user growth and found it difficult to monetise its service through advertising. Co-founder and previous chief executive Jack Dorsey was recalled to the helm of Twitter in 2015 with a mission to revitalise the company. Twitter has introduced more video and live-streaming functions, including deals with Major League Baseball and the National Basketball Association, but the company has made little progress in increasing users and revenue. In its latest quarter for the three months to June, Twitter reported its eighth-straight period of falling user growth and its slowest revenue growth since it went public. “Clearly, the turnaround is still a work in progress and the question of whether being a platform for a mass audience versus a niche audience needs to be answered,” James Cakmak, an analyst at research firm Monness, Crespi, Hardt & Co, said at the time. Patrick Moorhead, analyst at Moor Insights & Strategy, told Reuters this summer that investors are becoming increasingly frustrated at the lack of progress. “We are a year into Dorsey coming back and there is really no end in sight of when it is going to start picking up to where investors are going to be happy,” he said. 