Good to read that the Guardian will be giving climate change more coverage (Why we put the climate on the cover, 7 March). One vital issue that has so far received only limited attention is the lack of a global-level regulator to make sure that in future the global aggregate of fossil-fuel emissions is drastically reduced each year, as dictated by climate science. Climate change is a global issue. It calls for worldwide regulation. Articles published by Scientists for Global Responsibility and the Green House thinktank in Cambridge explain how this could be carried out by an independent trust acting on behalf of all humanity. It could operate a global licensing system as a backup to the system of inter-governmental negotiation, which has failed because it is a system of negotiation between nation-state governments, and which might, but might well not, achieve the necessary global reductions. The new system is described at CapGlobalCarbon.org. The Guardian would be an ideal forum for discussion of this idea and for tracking the many steps required to turn a good idea into a successful project.John JoplingCloughjordan, Co Limerick, Ireland• Publishing a long extract from Naomi Klein’s latest book, This Changes Everything, is not going to have much effect on reducing the “havoc and stress to our species”. Her article canters through the science and glacially slow progress of governments to tackle the issue, interspersed with wistful expressions of hope that “climate change could become a catalysing force for positive change”. But where are the practical ways in which ordinary people can make a difference? Paradoxically, the section of society probably best placed to create positive change is the very group she criticises most. Business – multinationals in particular – is the key to building low-carbon economies, reducing environmental impacts and inspiring large numbers of people to modify their consumption habits.Rather than treat all businesses as pariahs, why not work with some of the more progressive ones to help their consumers become a catalysing force? Why not urge Naomi Klein’s thousands of followers and the Guardian’s readers to use their buying power to reward companies that are trying to decarbonise their business? That would be a lot more effective than reams of rhetoric or never-ending debate. Rusbridger describes the Guardian as “this extraordinary agent of reporting, argument, investigation, questioning and advocacy”. Why not add change to this list?Richard AldwinckleLondon• You assert (Editorial, 9 March): “So the phenomenon of the climate change refugee is not new. What is new is that, this time, the problem is of human making.” You blame global warming and climate change caused by the profligate burning of fossil fuels. Thus droughts and floods force people to migrate – with sad consequences, such as those who drown in perilous seas. Not once do you remind us that the world population explosion is also to blame for global warming. Each of us has a carbon footprint. Naomi Klein (This changes everything, 9 March) similarly ignores this most obvious fact. I would like to see a higher proportion of the UK’s foreign aid assigned to supporting family planning in those nations that might request it.Giles YoungsDrinkstone, Suffolk