What’s the name of this show? GomorrahWhen does it premiere? The 12-episode season starts Wednesday, 24 August at 10pm ET on Sundance TV. What is this show about? It was the most popular show ever in Italy when it aired there in 2012. It’s based on the 2008 movie of the same name, which is based on the 2006 nonfiction book of the same by Roberto Saviano.There will be blood – the unmissable, ultimate mafia show Gomorrah is back Sounds a bit like The Sopranos. It must be really good. Yes, it’s pretty excellent. But it’s in Italian, which means most Americans won’t watch it because they think subtitles are as evil as a goblin eating the baby Jesus. What happens in the first episode? Ciro (Marco D’Amore), a mid-level mafia man, sets fire to the house of his boss’s rival, which ignites a turf war that has far-reaching consequences. The head of the family, Pietro Savastano (Fortunato Cerlino), is losing his grip on power. His hot-headed and ineffective son Gennaro (Salvatore Esposito) isn’t ready to take the mantle, and now that his father’s empire is in danger he’s needed more than ever. Pietro’s wife, Imma (Maria Pia Calzone), is mostly worried about her new couch, but she pays attention at every meeting. Things really start to get bad when it becomes clear that someone in the organization is informing the cops about family business. Is this different from other mob dramas? Not after The Sopranos, no. There are lots of crosses and double crosses, shootouts and power struggles, which anyone who watched the HBO masterpiece will recognize. Just like its spiritual godfather (pardon the pun), Gomorrah is also interested in the emotional toll that a life of crime takes and adds a more dramatic and psychological spin on the familiar tales.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Marco D’Amore as Ciro Di Marzio and Antonio Milo as Attilio in Gommorah. Photograph: Emanuela Scarpa/Sundance Channel/courtesy /RMany reviewers have also compared the show to The Wire, which is a little bit misleading. While Gomorrah looks at drug crime from the streets all the way up to those making all the money, it’s not as interested in the systemic decline that makes this possible. The Wire also focused on the cops trying to take the drug dealers down as well as the junkies and other people the “war on drugs” impacts. Gomorrah is just focused on this one mob family. How violent is it? Of course there are lots of deaths, plenty of guns, and at least one guy who is beaten to death with a paper weight. This is not for the faint of heart. Gomorrah: is the Italian mafia show having its plot-shock cake and eating it? Is it any good? Certainly, and the more the series unspools, the knottier the yarn gets. The first episode is sort of like a perfect little movie (and at 60 minutes without commercials, it is almost as long as one) that focuses on one incident in an ongoing war. It picks up from there as the implications of what happened during the skirmish play out over the course of the season. Like the best dramas, Gomorrah invests in the characters, taking time to draw out their psyches and motivation, and that attention pays off when you find yourself rooting for nearly everyone in the cast, though not all of them can come out victorious. No matter the outcome, viewers are sure to be devastated, but the plot is so well constructed that the conclusion feels inevitable. Is there anything wrong with it? It’s very, very dark. I don’t mean in terms of tone, but the show looks like it was filmed at the bottom of a well. This often makes it difficult to discern exactly what is happening and to see the character’s faces. When trying to learn all of the people in the complicated hierarchy of the Savastano mob family it’s almost impossible – but maybe that’s the point? Should I watch this show? Yes. For those who like mafia shows and the sort of anti-hero dramas that have become the stock in trade of “peak TV”, this is another excellent entry. A second season aired this year on Italian and UK television, a third season is nearly completed, and a fourth season is in the works, so those who cotton to this series will have plenty more in store. 