Showrunner, actor and writer Lena Dunham has pulled out of the promotional tour for season five of Girls, due to a flare-up of endometriosis, a disease she has lived with since she was a teenager. In a post to Facebook and Instagram, Dunham warned her fans she won’t be doing press for the upcoming season, which premieres on HBO on 21 February.“As many of you know I have endometriosis, a chronic condition that affects approximately 1 in 10 women’s reproductive health,” she wrote on Tuesday. “I am currently going through a rough patch with the illness and my body (along with my amazing doctors) let me know, in no uncertain terms, that it’s time to rest.”Endometriosis: 20 things every woman (and every doctor) should know Dunham said she needed strength to make the sixth season of Girls – its final run of episodes – “the best one yet”, citing support from her co-showrunner Jenni Konner and executive producer Judd Apatow. “So many women with this disease literally don’t have the option of time off and I won’t take it for granted.”The update follows an article Dunham wrote in November for Lenny, an e-newsletter she publishes with Konner. In the piece, she detailed her ongoing battle with endometriosis, which causes cells similar to the lining of the womb to grow outside of the womb, forming lesions, scar tissue and cysts and resulting in chronic pain, abnormal bleeding and vastly higher rates of infertility. In an all-too-familiar pattern for women around the world, Dunham’s endometriosis went undiagnosed for over a decade, variously classified as period pain, food poisoning, urinary tract infections or a colon problem.It was only after Dunham had wrapped up shooting the first season of Girls in 2011 that a doctor suggested to her what the real cause of her pain may be. She remained on a low-dose contraceptive pill for the next three years, until her symptoms returned.Lena Dunham (@lenadunham)I need birth control because I have endometriosis and it helps manage pain. Why do you?July 23, 2014When Dunham went in for laparoscopic surgery the following November, her doctor found stage two endometriosis across her abdominal walls, bladder, liver and appendix, with “enough endometrial tissue and scarring to cause significant pain”, and an appendix that showed signs of chronic infection. Dunham’s case reflects a wider trend; an estimated 176 million women worldwide have the disease, but it suffers from a lack of research and funding that Lone Hummelshoj, who heads the World Endometriosis Research Foundation and the World Endometriosis Society, has described as “a major scandal”. Often dismissed by doctors as period pain or a symptom of an unrelated illness, it takes an average of eight-and-a-half years for endometriosis to be diagnosed. Endometriosis: hidden suffering of millions of women revealed “[My doctor] has been performing these surgeries since long before they were popular, back when he was considered crazy for not simply removing a stressed lady’s uterus and moving on,” Dunham wrote in Lenny. “I could tell I wasn’t the only woman he had seen through the discovery of her own sanity. It’s a sad and beautiful moment when you realize just how much you have let yourself endure.”Dunham ended the piece on a hopeful note: “Being a woman is the best thing that ever happened to me. But I also hope for a future in which the pain of teenage girls is fully investigated, taken as seriously as a broken leg. I hope for a world where illness isn’t equated with weakness, where mental-health issues do not discount physical ones, because, guess what, we are complex beings.”