Actors, like Donald Trump, prefer to remain “semi-exact” when it comes to the facts. Perception is our domain, not to be undermined by actuality. A fact like an actor’s date of birth stands in the way of our dreams at some point in all our working lives – we’re no different from anyone else in this – but it’s notoriously true that actors contend with age in unequal ways. Without a doubt, since I’ve left my twenties the roles have become more interesting. Maybe that’s just art reflecting life. Young men are never as interesting as they think they are. Demetrius is no match for Helena, Lysander for Hermia, nor that dolt Romeo for the wry and cogent Juliet.Law passed enabling actors to remove age from IMDb Roles for older women, if they reflected life, should be the stuff of great drama. I think of my mother for whom a whole shadow life came into light after she was widowed. Meanwhile the men of her corresponding age began to run out of steam. Those subjects remain rare in the stories we tell ourselves. Perhaps that is an emphasis that goes back to the earliest stories.I like watching actors as they grow old. The best and most generous actors show us, without vanity, what Philip Roth called the “massacre” of old age. I think of great performances from Vanessa Redgrave in Atonement, Julie Christie in Away From Her, Emmanuelle Riva in Amour. Jason Robards in Magnolia. Peter O’Toole in Venus and My Talks with Dean Spanley – where he found an eerie translucence as though one foot was in the afterlife. I was lucky to work with Michael Gambon on Churchill’s Secret in which he portrayed a stroke-stricken Churchill as though in his second childhood. There’s a distinction between the way age is treated in films, television and the theatre. Hollywood has always framed desire as something for the straight and the young – or young women, at least. Bacall was 19 to Bogie’s 45 in To Have and To Have Not. But Bacall was smart, in control, Alpha – an adult. As were Katharine Hepburn, Claudette Colbert, Rosalind Russell, Barbara Stanwyck, Bette Davis. The conclusions of their films usually required a man to complete the picture but you sometimes wonder where that combination of humour and strength has gone now that we’re so baby-ish. But there’s a whole raft of women working hard in Hollywood who are in their late forties. Things are growing up.My friendship with Luise Rainer: art, advice, Einstein and champagne An actor once described to me a very famous male star now in his late seventies: “‘I call him Norman Desmond,’ she said, “he’s got a loooong staircase.” Well, most actors haven’t had to descend from the heights of that actor’s beauty, or suffered the waning of our star at the lonely end of Sunset Boulevard like the original Norma, so our vanity should be less of an issue. We work far away from what David Thomson called “the great cabinet of desire” that is Hollywood and our youthfulness as it pertains to fantasy is not a very important factor. We hope to reflect life … in all its baldness. But we’re never quite out of the shadow cast by the American dream factory and its conservative standards.In Hollywood a whole parasitic community sprung up around these images – doctors and quacks given over to the pursuit of youthfulness and its corollary, health. That economy is going strong. The parochial preferences of age-leery, surgery-happy west Angelenos, whose nipping and tucking begins to look normal through the windscreen of a tinted Lexus, becomes a global standard for us all to worry over.As any Hollywood agent will tell you, something else is changing too. The men are getting as much “work” as the women. And once the inventory of Californian narcissism has been exhausted – the grapefruit oil, spirulina, brain dust, activated dingleberries, diet pills, coke, bulimia, fake pregnancies, and the surgeon’s knife – there’s the guaranteed-youthfulness-or-your-money-back cure of early death.Somewhere in Hollywood, the middle managers are adding up the numbers, and the market, they calculate, demands youth. But as the US population ages that’s bound to change. The older demographic will assert their buying power. This has already started to happen in television which, for all its formulae and cliche, reflects the lives we lead so much better than the American cinema now does. Will the power of these storytelling industries make age less important? Will age become as fluid as sexuality and gender?Instinctively, I welcomed the news that a new California law will require IMDb to omit or remove age and birth date from an actor’s profile upon request. Publishing actors’ ages on the internet just provides another impediment to the imagination. Agents find it unhelpful. For actors it’s an unwelcome intrusion – limiting the range we suppose we have, counter to the spirit of self-invention. But the idea that “age doesn’t matter” cuts both ways. The law, which applies only to California, would seem to compound Hollywood’s prejudice rather than remove it. If it doesn’t matter, why hide it? I suspect that most of the time we’d like to fool ourselves as much as anyone else.