Countrywise: Secret Wild Places 8pm, ITVBritain is unaccustomed to thinking of itself as wilderness. As this Countrywise special demonstrates, however, it is possible to find parts of the UK that are anything but orderly. Liz Bonnin, Paul Heiney and Ben Fogle strike out in search of places people rarely go – and, in the case of the wetland of Sutton Fen, are usually not permitted. Britain is revealed as a thrilling landscape of snows, jungles and seashores. Andrew MuellerJane the Virgin 8pm, E4The frenetically paced, telenovela-style dramedy slows down a little for this finale to the second series, saving its trademark 180-degree twists for its closing moments. Before then, it’s time for Jane and Michael to tie the knot. That is, if Jane can rejig her thesis proposal in time to get to the church and/or Rafael decides during the ceremony to hold his peace for ever. Elsewhere, Petra’s sister suffers a medical emergency. Wonderfully ludicrous, as ever. Hannah J DaviesGreat Canal Journeys8pm, Channel 4      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Like a second honeymoon ... Prunella Scales and Timothy West in Venice. Photograph: Channel 4Prunella Scales and Timothy West embark on another journey in this unique series: funny, beautiful and, owing to Scales’s Alzheimer’s, undercut with poignancy – this is real life. This time they are in Venice, visiting the Teatro La Fenice and the island of Torcello. “All very romantic,” thinks Pru. “Like a second honeymoon.” “First one not good enough, eh?” comes husband West’s reply. “What’s wrong with a week in north Wales?” Ali CatterallSkies Above Britain 9pm, BBC2Air traffic in the UK (“the invisible motorway network”) is controlled miles from any airport, in Hampshire. At any time, a controller will be looking after about 15 planes, staying vigilant for “infringers” into their controlled airspace. A calm show about scary things, it shows the mechanisms for dealing with the unexpected. Under what circumstances might a Typhoon jet be scrambled to take care of an aircraft of potentially malign intent? John RobinsonMan Down 10pm, Channel 4As Greg Davies’s sitcom concludes, it’s Dan’s last day before he heads to the US to join his lady love, Emma. While some will scarcely miss his haplessness, Jo is trying to make his departure go with a bang, sorting out a party bus. Well, a van. A van that smells of meat. In fact, it’s a meat van. Things go from bad to worse when the party and its guests go awol, but Tony Robinson’s Daedalus finally gets his comeuppance, so it’s not all bad. Ben ArnoldA Granny’s Guide to the Modern World 10.30pm, Channel 4Watching the oldies get to grip with the quirks of life today has been a wheeze, especially when they play tricks on the younger generation with their hidden cameras. Sadly, it’s the last episode tonight, but at least the investigative reporters get to meet Geordie Shore’s Charlotte Crosby to find out what being famous involves these days. Meanwhile, joker Bernard must try to convince people that he was in the Jackson 5. Hannah VerdierDag 11pm, Sky ArtsA double bill of the Norwegian comedy that’s as piquant as pickled herring. It stars Atle Antonsen as a marriage guidance counsellor who is for ever waist deep in his own woes or those of his nearest, if not dearest. Tonight, a nun visits him in search of new parishioners, while Benedikt must protect Donna from some people she has upset. In the evening’s second episode, Dag and Eva have a domestic, while a tragedy has a dramatic effect on Benedikt. David StubbsOlympic choiceJust in case fans of the big black-and-white ball had been feeling left out, Claire Balding presents the action from the second men’s football semi-final tonight (8pm, BBC2). Perhaps of more interest, and higher calibre, is a likely encounter between Usain Bolt and Justin Gatlin in the men’s 200m semi-finals (2am, BBC1). Half an hour later, it’s the women’s 200m final, with the US’s Allyson Felix aiming to retain her title (2.30am, BBC1). Paul MacInnesFilm choiceMad Max (George Miller, 1979), 9pm, TCMThe cult Australian road movie that introduced Max Rockatansky to the world and sped Mel Gibson along the road to stardom. Max is a fairly peaceable cop transformed into an implacable black-leather knight on wheels when his wife and son are killed by a biker gang. A bleak but sometimes comic vision of a post-apocalyptic future, handled brilliantly by debut director Miller. Paul Howlett