Since the majority of the buzz surrounding Paul Feig’s new female-led Ghostbusters has focused on the man-babies angry about gender, we haven’t spent enough time praising the choice of leads.Ghostbusters review: call off the trolls – Paul Feig's female reboot is a blast Kristen Wiig has mostly stuck to indie-based supporting roles since breaking out in 2011’s Oscar-nominated Bridesmaids, but playing the awkward academic with a paranormal past in this week’s big budget sci-fi comedy takes her back to the multiplex. The film might underwhelm in parts but she remains a winning comic presence throughout.But what have been her greatest roles?Knocked Up (2007)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Wiig had been part of Saturday Night Live for two years when she made her first memorable big-screen appearance. It’s a minor role in Judd Apatow’s engaging romantic comedy, but in a small amount of screen time she emerged as an effortless scene-stealer. As the snippy E! employee with limited social skills, she turned every glance into a punchline.Bridesmaids (2011)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Her magnum opus arrived in 2011 with a film that finally gave her the lead she deserved. The Paul Feig-directed comedy, which Wiig co-scripted, still stands out as a game-changer. It’s a smart, beautifully observed, painfully funny film about female friendship and difficult-to-admit selfishness that made more money than any other offering from the Apatow stable. Wiig’s excellent performance teeters on mania throughout.The Skeleton Twins (2014)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Post-Bridesmaids, Wiig has largely avoided big-budget fare, with mixed success. Her first smart choice came in 2014 when she teamed up with her ex-SNL co-star Bill Hader. They played siblings who reconnect after years apart and, thanks to the history between the pair off-screen, there’s a genuine lived-in chemistry that brings an added dimension to the modest drama.Welcome to Me (2014)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Her next lead role provided a rather difficult challenge: playing a woman with borderline personality disorder who uses her lottery winnings to fund a talk show. The film itself is uneven and could be accused of using mental illness for laughs, but Wiig is tremendous throughout, playing on her inherent awkwardness for both humour and pathos.The Diary of a Teenage Girl (2015)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest While she might have the least screen-time of the central trio in Marielle Heller’s impressive debut, Wiig still leaves her mark in this 70s-set drama. She plays the hard-partying mother of Bel Powley’s titular teen, and paints a tragic figure of a woman disappointed with how her life has turned out.