Two days after I was attacked by a taxi driver, I walked into the Australian embassy in Buenos Aires clutching my tattered passport and a police report adorned with a smear of my blood that had, by that stage, oxidised brown.Both my eyes were bruised and puffy, I had a cut above my lip and a swollen face. It’s fair to say I didn’t look much like my usual self.I sat in one of the plush embassy chairs waiting for an official to see me. Eventually, an Australian woman called my name. I remember feeling comforted by the familiar accent and cadence. The official was tall and solidly built, and walked in an unimposing way, as if to shrink herself and apologise for her stature. She took me to a quiet room and asked me what happened. She was kind and her voice was rich with sympathy. Top tech firms urged to step up online abuse fightback She asked for my passport so she could verify my identity, and I handed it over. Opening it up to the photo page, she expressed surprise. “Oh, you’re so pretty,” she said, before saying something along the lines of “that’s why he attacked you and not someone like me”. I think often about this junior diplomat whose life intersected with mine for just a few minutes nearly seven years ago. Not because her words were accusatory or meant unkindly, but because their sentiment – the messed up gender stereotypes and internalised sense of shame and blame that they represented – rendered me speechless.In 2009 I travelled to Buenos Aires as a tourist and stayed with an Argentine friend of mine I’d met while backpacking a few years prior. One night, I was held at knife-point and beaten up by a taxi driver who was trying to rape me. Some deeply primal part of my brain chose to fight rather than freeze and I managed to get away with very minor injuries. I immediately reported it to local police, who issued me with a statement – entirely in Spanish – that I then had to take to the embassy to get verified for my insurance. The embassy official’s comment was the first stupid thing somebody had said to me about sexual assault, but it certainly wasn’t the last.In the years since my attack I’ve had people say all manner of stupid things about my experience. Like the (female) friend who admonished me for travelling by taxi. Or the insurance company employee who asked me if I was drunk before I got in the cab. Or the colleague who asked me a few months after my attack if I was “still doing that” when I told him I had counselling after work. Or the former boss who referred me to the person in human resources who dealt with “women’s issues”, as though sexual violence is as trivial as menstrual cramps. One friend asked me if I noticed that the driver was dodgy before I got in the car. I guess the flashing neon arrow pointing to his head must have been on the blink that day, because no, I hadn’t noticed he was a rapist. Yet another friend told me it was unfair that women are suspicious of all men they meet, when only a handful are rapists. I suspect he was part of the neon arrow brigade, expecting that women should innately be able to tell what a person’s intentions are and criticising us when we get it wrong.None of these comments had any intended malice behind them; in fact in nearly all cases they were uttered by people who loved me or cared about my wellbeing. No one thought they were saying anything insensitive to me, and that’s the whole problem.I studied gender at university and have reported on violence and gender inequality before – and after – I experienced it first hand. But it wasn’t until I was attacked that I properly understood what the words “rape culture” truly meant.Rape culture trivialises the experience of women while at the same time blaming us for what we’ve experienced. It perpetrates myths about why men rape and simultaneously underplays and exaggerates its impact on victims and survivors.That man, whose face I don’t remember, did not choose to attack me because I was young, or pretty, or because I’m 5’2. I was attacked because I was there. I was in the taxi and some other woman wasn’t. No other reason.Top tech firms urged to step up online abuse fightback Rape culture isn’t just the community backlash to rape victims who seek justice, like the case in Steubenville. It isn’t just Gamergate or the explicit threats of sexual violence on social media used to shut women up. Rape culture isn’t just when respected elders like Stephen Fry accuse rape victims of trying to elicit sympathy or pity by bringing up their experiences.It’s the subtle, insidious way we as a society speak about – or choose not to speak about – something that one in three women worldwide experience. It’s the subconscious conclusions my friends and colleagues reached about me, about my behaviour and about how my life would be after surviving a violent attempted rape. I’ve always been open about my experience, because part of rape culture’s power is its ability to shame survivors into silence. If you believe you are responsible for an act of violence, that you some how brought it upon yourself, you’re unlikely to speak about it. And not speaking about it helps myths fester and perpetuate. It’s an ugly feedback loop.So I’ve written this because I’m lucky enough to have survived a random attack when others were not so lucky.Comments on this article are premoderated