A new FX miniseries, The People v OJ Simpson: American Crime Story, is the first attempt by Hollywood to examine the chaotic 1995 trial of the former American football star for the murders of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman.Scream Queens: Glee creator is back with a frighteningly funny horror show The show, from executive producer Ryan Murphy (American Horror Story, Glee) and with a cast including Cuba Gooding Jr, John Travolta and David Schwimmer, approaches the case from the perspectives of the two legal teams.During a panel at the Television Critics Association winter press tour in Pasadena on Saturday, Murphy and his collaborators said The People v OJ Simpson does not take sides. Instead, it attempts to lift the lid on how dealings between the legal teams, prosecution overconfidence and the Los Angeles police department’s history with the African American community led a jury to deliver a not guilty verdict which drew more than 100 million TV viewers.“We wanted you to understand the verdict,” co-writer and executive producer Larry Karaszewski said. “It’s about the unraveling certainty. You could just see it kind of slipping through the prosecution’s fingers, and that’s sort of what the show is about.”Of the trial itself, co-executive producer Nina Jacobson said: “The OJ case was subject of tabloid fodder to a degree that was unprecedented – and still not rivaled even in the era of internet.”Asked why it had taken so long for Hollywood to document the trial, Jacobson said: “We needed time and distance to think of it from a character perspective. People are always wanting to reassure themselves – white people in particular – that these sort of racial earthquakes will come and go. But the fault lines are still there. Right now is a time when people are able to converse on the subject.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The trailer for The People v OJ Simpson.Jeffrey Toobin, author of The Run of His Life: The People v OJ Simpson, an account of the trial that served as the inspiration for the series, said he never had any doubt the story would make it to the screen.“This story is one of the great American stories,” he said. “This is a great story about everything that obsesses the American people: this is a story about race, sex, violence, sports, Hollywood … and the only eye witness is a dog.”The People v OJ Simpson premieres on the heels of three other popular true crime projects: Netflix’s Making a Murderer, HBO’s The Jinx and the podcast Serial, which is being turned into a TV show. Asked why audiences are so ravenous for such stories, co-executive producer Brad Simpson said: “Great true crime stories are about a rupture in society. Right now, people are interested in the ways in which the justice system is broken that they haven’t always been.”Murphy admitted to watching all of Making a Murderer over his holiday break. “I was so fascinated,” he said of the controversial show.Unlike Making a Murderer, The People v OJ Simpson isn’t billed as a docu-drama. However, its makers stressed it does stay mostly true to the facts. Toobin, who was in the courtroom for the trial, was present during filming and praised the project for providing an authentic version of real life events. Schwimmer, who plays Simpson’s friend and defense attorney Robert Kardashian, said that the production shot key scenes at what was Kardashian’s house at the time of the Bronco chase. Toobin said the courtroom set was an “eerie” recreation of the real thing.Making a Murderer: the Netflix documentary beating TV drama at its own game Gooding Jr, who plays Simpson, said he purposely didn’t reach out to the former athlete to prepare for the role, because of Simpson’s “present condition”.In 2008, Simpson was found guilty of felonies including armed robbery and kidnapping, and sentenced to 33 years imprisonment.“He’s now a shell of man,” Gooding Jr said. “It breaks your soul and spirit. If Ryan [Murphy] wants to do a next season as OJ today and casts me, I’ll sit with him. But until then, I knew that this portrayal in 1994 was of a flamboyant movie star-slash-marquee athlete.”Gooding Jr, who said he had no qualms about playing Simpson, declined to say whether he believes Simpson to be guilty or innocent of the murders.“The question of his guilt is my own personal opinion,” he said, “and I don’t want that reflected in the performance. I think people believe one thing or another, and that’s not going to change.“If we have you watch these 10 episodes whether you think he’s innocent or guilty and you say, ‘I still think whatever, but I know how they came up with that verdict,’ then we did our job.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cast and crew of The People v OJ Simpson, at their Pasadena panel. Photograph: Kevork Djansezian/ReutersBBC gets on the true crime case with star-studded OJ Simpson drama Other actors expressed more reservation in signing on immediately, including Travolta, who plays defense attorney Robert Shapiro. The actor said he took four months to decide, ultimately demanding an executive producer credit as a safety net, to “ensure it wasn’t going in a sensationalist way”.“I wanted it communicate something to an audience that was enlightening,” Travolta said. “It was important to show the things we don’t know.”In the end, Travolta said, he rarely had to “assert the producer card” on set because of the direction Murphy and his crew took with the show.Before the panel, FX chief executive John Landgraf confirmed that the second installment of American Crime Story, which has not been formally green-lighted, was well underway, with Murphy back in place. It will be about the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.The People v OJ Simpson: American Crime Story premieres Tuesday 2 February at 10 pm ET/PT on FX.