By turns almost unremittingly poignant, caustically honest and very, very funny, The Art of Being Normal, is, as you might expect, the antithesis of what it says on the tin. I have often heard it said that a book made someone “laugh out loud” and thought this only existed in book reviews, but Lisa Williamson’s intelligent, thought-stoking novel genuinely had me softly chuckling on more than one occasion.Two outsiders – David, a transgender teenager on the cusp of puberty - and Leo, isolated from his classmates at the prestigious Eden Park secondary school by class and a reputation for violence, find their stories mesh in unexpected and transformative ways. Voguishly, the entire novel is written in the present tense. Often, this technique is used to create a sense of pace and urgency, but given how much of the novel is about pauses – hesitancy in romantic or sexual relationships; David’s dilemma in coming out to his parents; the frequent stalls and misjudged attempts at friendliness between Leo and David themselves – this method seemed oddly inappropriate to me. There is a dream-like, almost hallucinogenic passage late in the novel, when David and Leo are splashing about in a freezing sea at night, in which identities blur, when using the present tense seemed perfect. It would perhaps have stood out even more if the rest of the novel had not been written in this way.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Art of Being Normal is chock-a-block full of plot twists which motor the novel along, keeping the pages turning. One in particular is not entirely unexpected if you have read any coming-of- age YA novel, but then again it relates to what is in all likelihood a universal human experience: losing faith in adults you have mythologised. However, the use of the first-person unreliable narrator also allows Lisa Williamson to conceal some major surprises. Some of the humour is crafted by tickling conventions – at times it almost feels David in particular is aware he is a character in a novel:  Ever since we made the decision to come here, I’ve been envisioning a cinematic adventure full of self-discovery, bonding and life-defining moments, but so far Leo is failing to cooperate.In so many ways Lisa Williamson brings to life the humdrum existence of post-millennials, from casual references to Leo’s sister Amber’s dysfunctional relationship with food to the Eden Park pupils’ jokes about “pervy” adults, to David’s self-conscious relationship with his parents. In so many ways this is a refreshing book to read. David is a blunt, frank narrator: “I’m not gay. I’m just a straight girl stuck in a boy’s body”. The ease with which, ironically, Lisa Williamson writes about characters struggling with their sexuality is remarkable. I was also taken aback, though, by the matter-of-fact inclusion of class as another seeming-impervious barrier in teenage relationships. Somehow as readers we are used to the idea of racism, sexism and homophobia being explored through novels and literature, while Leo’s uneasy limbo, coming from a working-class background but going to a ‘posh school’, was not only poignant but startlingly new in my reading experience. Lisa Williamson: 'I have met so many young transgender people living happy, hopeful lives' As in real life, there are ambiguities and will-they/won’t-they moments which Lisa Williamson does not neatly resolve. The reader leaves David and Leo not at the end of their stories, but the end of their beginnings. I thoroughly enjoyed sharing the slice Lisa Williamson has conjured into being.Buy this book at the Guardian Bookshop