High above the roaring traffic of London’s Hyde Park Corner, conservators are delicately cleaning and waxing intricate details usually visible only to pigeons of one of the most spectacular pieces of public art in the capital. “The quality is ridiculously good, far better than it needed to be”, historian Steven Brindle says. “Poor Jones knew this was his masterpiece and took infinite trouble over it – for all the thanks he got.”The monumental bronze of Peace descending on a war chariot drawn by four rearing horses driven by a naked boy calmly ignoring the arrival of his winged passenger, has topped the Wellington Arch for more than a century. The artist Adrian Jones was never fully paid for his work and only got his name on the arch years later.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A silhouette of the enormous bronze statue which is being restored by English Heritage. Photograph: Martin Argles for the GuardianWellington Arch has had a chequered history, designed by Decimus Burton in 1825 as a grand entrance to Green Park, but never completed following a row over money. Instead, 20 years later it was topped with a ludicrously oversized equestrian statue of the Duke of Wellington, the hero of Waterloo, which pleased nobody except the Iron Duke himself, who could admire it from his grand house directly opposite. When the arch had to be moved in the 1880s to solve some of the worst traffic jams in London, with the Duke safely dead, the monster came down. “There was a suggestion that it should just be melted down, but it had been paid for by public donation mainly from soldiers, so the decision was taken to pack it off to Aldershot – where it remains to this day with only soldiers having to look at it,” said Brindle, a historian at English Heritage, which took over responsibility for the arch in 2000.In 1891 the Prince of Wales, the future Edward VII, announced that he had just seen a plaster model of a four horse chariot at the Royal Academy which would be perfect for the top of the arch.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   One of the intricately detailed horses’ heads is cleaned and repainted. Photograph: Nick Ansell/PAThe artist was Adrian Jones, a recently retired army veterinary captain and self-taught sculptor, who earned a living mainly by selling small bronzes of dogs and horses to his former comrades.Jones had never made anything remotely on the scale of the arch and in any case there was no money to pay for it. But in 1907 his patron – now the king – persuaded a rich banker, Lord Michelham of Hellingly, to stump up. A private messenger sent to Jones’s home to break the good news was so discreet that he failed to indicate just how rich the anonymous donor was: poor Jones quoted £15,000, a price so low it almost bankrupted him.One archive photograph shows Jones and his studio assistants having a tea break inside one of the gigantic horses. He only saw the completed work when it was fitted together in the foundry before being dismantled again to be moved to London. By January 1912 Edward was dead and the planned grand opening ceremony was cancelled on cost grounds: instead King George and Queen Mary drove the short distance from Buckingham Palace, had a look, and drove home again.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Detail of a cherub on Adrian Jones’s sculpture. Photograph: Nick Ansell/PAPeace, wreath in one hand, olive branch in the other, stares out, calm and slightly stern. “Couldn’t she be prettier?” the notoriously womanising Prince of Wales is said to have asked on a studio visit. She has survived 104 years of traffic fumes, pollution and perching pigeons remarkably well. As the grime and old varnish is removed, and a new coating of dark wax applied, the heaving veined flanks of the horses, the roses, leeks, thistles and shamrock decorating the wheels, the war booty piled up in the chariot and the beautifully modelled lions’ heads on the hubs are coming up gleaming. “It is an absolutely fabulous thing,” Brindle said. “Jones was unquestionably the best animal artist working in England, and the detail of his work here is just astonishing. I hope the pigeons appreciate it.”