“We’re here to tell a story,” Johnnie Cochran says in episode five of The People vs OJ Simpson. “Our job is to tell our story better than the other side tells theirs.” Over and over, Marcia Clark and Gil Garcetti pound Christopher Darden and other skeptics within the DA’s office with the “mountain of physical evidence” that was guaranteed to convict OJ: the glove, the blood in the Bronco, the blood on the scene and the cut on his hand. The way they saw it, the DNA matches and Simpson’s staggering 62 recorded instances of domestic violence and stalking were just too overwhelming for the defense to counteract. What they forgot to do is tell a story.The People v OJ Simpson: episode four – enter Connie Britton as Faye Resnick In her opening statements, Clark batters the jury with facts that point strongly toward Simpson as the murderer. In his remarks, Cochran leads with a quote from Martin Luther King Jr: “Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.” The prosecution thought they were working on a murder trial, but what Cochran understood is that his only path to victory was to indict the entire imbalanced racist system of law in this country. The underdog black athlete against the evil LAPD is the only story that ended up mattering. This case brought to light the cancer that was eating up LA’s law enforcement infrastructure in the 90s, but the injustice offered to the Brown and Goldman family was certainly a threat to justice everywhere.Race dominated the trial and it dominates episode five, which opens in 1982, on a traffic stop where Cochran is pulled over for changing lanes without signalling. The truth, which Cochran points out, is that he was pulled over for being black in an expensive car in a nice neighborhood. He’s only released from handcuffs after the officer runs his license and finds out he’s an assistant district attorney. It’s a scene that sets the table for the entire rest of the episode – black people struggling to avoid land mines of prejudice and the white people comfortably oblivious to the severity of the problem.Marcia Clark sees no reason to keep detective Mark Fuhrman away from the witness stand. “When someone acts polite, they are polite,” Clark tells Chris Darden when he describes how Fuhrman is indicative of a type of white person who tries to hide their racism by saying the right thing in the moment. Darden can see through it, and knows other black people can see through it too. Clark and Garcetti, though, just see a cop. People love cops, right? Cops protect and they serve, like it says on their patrol cars and their motorcycles. Even after the Rodney King riots, the idea that our experiences with police are often dictated by race, class, and education hadn’t permeated our collective psyche enough for the notion of putting a dubious police officer on the stand to set off every single alarm bell in the world simultaneously. The scene of Cochran’s traffic stop dramatized that obliviousness – while Johnnie laid on the hood of his car in handcuffs, the white restaurant goers and shoppers did and said nothing. They just watched, completely inert. And that’s the story of race in America – apathy in the face of injustice everywhere.Mark Fuhrman can patronizingly talk about his “black buddies” while polishing the case that holds his Nazi memorabilia. The pleas of Chris Darden, who ends the episode as co-prosecutor after William Hodgman bows out due to health issues, go unheard and the level of wokeness in the DA’s office hits an all-time low. It gets so bad that Darden has to publicly request that the N-word be banned from the courtroom because it will “blind [black jurors] to the truth”. But really, Americans have been willfully blind to the truth of systemic racism for 200 years, and Cochran hits back, claiming Darden’s motion assumes black people can’t think for themselves. It’s a masterful move, and seals Darden into the box of the “Uncle Tom”, even if that rather odious term might be more accurately ascribed to OJ Simpson himself.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘That’s my chair’: Sterling K Brown as Christopher Darden, and Cuba Gooding Jr as OJ Simpson have a disagreement about furniture. Photograph: Ray Mickshaw/FXIn preparation for the jury’s visit to OJ’s home ahead of the opening of testimony, Cochran removes any trace of his client’s whitewashed existence. Gone are the photos of golf buddies, provocatively dressed women and Patrick Nagel paintings (which I’m sure were already passe by 1994). Cochran replaces all of that with African sculptures, paintings from his own collection and photos of OJ with his mother. It made OJ seem far more connected to the African American community than he ever was, and turned the “Mayor of Brentwood” into a symbol of black victimization, who couldn’t even use fame and fortune to escape hatred. That was the story Cochran wanted to tell, and in the jury room it was unbeatable.In the posh world of parlor room gossip, that story was far less effective. A counter-narrative was being told, particularly by writer and journalist Dominick Dunne, portrayed by Mad Men alum Robert Morse. Judge Lance Ito grants Dunne a seat in the courtroom – up front, right next to the grieving Goldman family. The thinking was that Dunne would be sensitive to the Goldmans’ suffering because he also lost a child as the result of a high-profile murder. Dunne wrote about his experiences for Vanity Fair, which was certainly not being read in the barber shops and living rooms of South Central, Compton, Watts, or any other black neighborhood in the country. In Dunne’s second scene in the mini-series, he regales an upper class dinner party with the most salacious details of Nicole Brown’s life with OJ Simpson. The party guests drool over their tiny slivers of cake and hang on every candlelit word from Dunne’s mouth, pausing only when their almost uniformly black butler staff appears from the shadows.Dunne’s story – of OJ’s sexual exploits, Nicole’s suffering, drug use, and all manner of other wild details – had race as the unspoken undercurrent rather than the driving force. The interracial couple, the violent, irrational black man and the white victim. The real, unvarnished truth is somewhere in between the two. OJ could be a monster and the LAPD could be racist at the same time, but the general public was split between the two ideas. Perception mattered most to Cochran and his defense; the story he concocted was one that appealed greatly to the jury. The public would be divided down racial lines, but the jury, predominantly black, would believe the defense’s tale of corruption and the perception of OJ as a victim. At the end, that was all that mattered.