A project to reimagine libraries involving zombies, young people, a group of tech-savvy artists and a nine-hour interactive broadcast beamed around the world, has sparked a book that organisers hope will inspire library authorities.The book, A Place Free of Judgement, is a collaboration between the performance art group Blast Theory and the writer Tony White, who put together a series of events under the same title in local libraries in Worcestershire and Staffordshire last year. Groups of young people were trained over six months in presentational, audiovisual and writing skills before taking control of their local library for a broadcast to a worldwide audience via an interactive live stream.As well as telling the story of the night, the book features a novella specially written by White called Zombies Ate My Library, which was performed live during the broadcast. It also includes contributions from viewers, who were asked to explain what their local library meant to them. The technology writer Bill Thompson wrote: “I look back now and realise that one of the reasons I believed in myself enough to apply for, and successfully get into, university – the only person in the sixth form of my comprehensive school to manage it – was because the library was my runway, and I’d built up enough momentum in my time there to become airborne.”Natalie McVey, service leader for young people at Worcester county council, said she hoped the book would inspire other libraries to run similar projects and to challenge perceptions of the beleaguered service. “It was something completely different for us to do,” she said. “We are really interested in pushing boundaries to make sure that libraries remain relevant.” The three, three-hour shows were written, presented and filmed by the young people involved, running consecutively on 29 October 2016, ending at midnight. “It has had a tremendous impact on the young people who took part, boosting their confidence and creativity,” McVey said.Participants, who included young carers and looked-after children as well as local students and those not in education, employment or training said the experience had helped them face the stresses of daily life. Eighteen-year-old A-level student Tash Williams said: “I am a stresser, I don’t look it on the outside, but I feel it inside. In one workshop we did a timeline of our day and I sat there and realised that I was doing so much stuff it was no wonder I was stressed.” She added that she has since started reading JK Rowling’s Harry Potter books to unwind. “It has made me realise how relaxing reading is.”According to White, the project was all the more important given current pressures on library services. “I wanted to work with libraries, librarians and young people at a time when libraries are so at risk,” he said. “What we found were libraries and librarians fulfilling a key role in communities. The idea that a librarian can be replaced by a vending machine is just completely ridiculous.”White has worked on a number of interactive writing projects including Channel 4’s 2010 Ivy4Eva, creating a story that unfolds on readers’ phones via text messaging. He added that he hoped to pursue other projects in a similar vein. “I am always looking for ways to get where readers are and to use technology in new ways to work with readers,” he added. “As the square footage of the book trade decreases, it is really important that we have things like this that go where readers are, rather than waiting for them to come to us.”A Place Free of Judgement will be launched at Southwater library in Telford, at 11am on Tuesday 21 February.