The R-rated X-Men spinoff Logan slashed into the weekend box office, opening with $85.3m in North American theaters, according to studio estimates, while the best-picture winner, Moonlight, got a significant Oscar bump.Logan review – Hugh Jackman's Wolverine enters a winter of X-Men discontent The debut of 20th Century Fox’s Logan, starring Hugh Jackman as Wolverine, ranks among the biggest March openings ever and top R-rated debuts. Like last year’s R-rated Deadpool (also a Fox release), the better-than-expected opening for a darkly violent, grittily dramatic movie applauded by critics further proves moviegoers’ hunger for less conventional comic book films.“Deadpool was to comedy what Logan is to drama. The only common theme is that they’re quote-unquote ‘comic-book movies’ and they’re rated R,” said Fox’s distribution chief, Chris Aronson, who credited the director and co-writer James Mangold and Jackman for executing their personal vision for the film.Jackman has said it will be his final performance as Wolverine, whose claws he has worn for 17 years. Logan, made for about $100m, also sold $152.5m in tickets overseas.“On a global scale, we’ve exceeded all pre-release expectations,” Aronson said.Last week’s No 1 film, Jordan Peele’s horror sensation Get Out, slid by just 22% – a small drop for any movie but particularly in the horror genre. The acclaimed Universal Pictures release, made for $5m by Blumhouse Productions, dropped to second place but still grossed $26.1m. Its 10-day total is $75m.The Oscar best-picture winner, Moonlight, had its widest release yet, appearing on 1,564 screens. It turned in its biggest weekend, too, with an estimated $2.5m. That accounts for roughly 10% of the movie’s total domestic haul of $25.3m.Moonlight, which was made for just $1.5m, is also out on DVD and on-demand. Indie distributor A24 said it will be its highest-grossing release in its five-year existence. Moonlight ranks fourth on iTunes.Emma Watson 'stunned' by criticism that Vanity Fair cover is not feminist “That’s a true Oscar halo effect in full view,” said Paul Dergarabedian, senior media analyst for comScore. “Usually the biggest bounce comes from the nominations. But this film hadn’t made a ton of money. A24 smartly expanded into more theaters, and it really worked.”Barry Jenkins’ drama is nevertheless one of the least widely seen best-picture winners. Only Kathryn Bigelow’s The Hurt Locker ($17m) earned less at the US box office.Though it memorably did not win best picture, Lionsgate’s La La Land – winner of six Academy Awards – is closing in on $400m globally after adding $11m internationally and $3m domestically.Lionsgate’s The Shack also opened in North American theaters over the weekend and came in third with $16.1m. The Christian tale, starring Sam Worthington and Octavia Spencer, was slammed by critics, but it attracted one of the largest faith-based audiences in recent years.