A southern American classic, the red velvet has its origins in the 19th century, when cakes as soft and fine as that fancy fabric were the height of culinary fashion. And although the colouring came much later – variously said to stem from the faint reddish hue that results from a collision of alkaline bicarbonate of soda with acidic cocoa, or the “red” brown sugar sometimes used – by the mid-20th century, it had become the cake’s calling card. One early recipe, printed in Texas’s Amarillo Globe-Times in the summer of 1960, calls for four tablespoons of food dye.Mississippi native and Saveur magazine food editor Ben Mims explains the red velvet’s attraction: “The deep crimson cake against the luminous white frosting is pure Southern drama. It’s Shirley MacLaine in Steel Magnolias hacking into the blood-coloured tail of an armadillo-shaped groom’s cake. It’s my mother’s ceramic-white skin contrasted by her lips, always burnished with brick-red lipstick.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ben Mims’s red velvet cake. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianThe red velvet arrived in Britain much more recently on the coat-tails of the early noughties Sex-and-the-City-era cupcake craze – and, frankly, had us mystified as to its intended flavour. But we were missing the point; while a red velvet cake should taste of cocoa, vanilla and buttermilk, it is chiefly distinctive for its soft, silky texture and aggressive crimson colour. If you don’t want a red cake, you should probably make something else. If you want something for tea that could stop traffic, read on.The batterThat fine, silky texture should be smooth rather than fluffy; moist, but never dense. For a really soft, tender crumb, there needs to be a higher proportion of fat than in your standard sponge, and that fat should be butter. I try vegetable shortening, as suggested in Carolyn A Knutsen’s recipe, published in the New York Times in 1977, and a mixture of vegetable oil and butter, as pastry chef Maria del Mar Sacasa recommends on the Serious Eats website, but neither comes close for flavour.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Carolyn A Knutsen’s red velvet cake. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianThe distinctive tang of red velvet is part of its attraction, and most recipes get this from a combination of buttermilk and vinegar. These acidic ingredients not only help to balance the richness of the butter, but react with bicarbonate of soda to create bubbles, further aerating the batter. Southern Living chooses sour cream over buttermilk, but my testers find the cake too fudgey and dense, “almost like a brownie”. It turns out you can add too much fat.Mims uses baking powder rather than straight bicarbonate of soda; an odd decision given that baking powder already contains acid and, in theory, should have no need of any more, which might be why his cake has a slightly odd flavour. That said, my panel come out strongly in favour of del Mar Sacasa’s cake for texture, which uses both – it’s lighter than the others, without being at all dry, so I’m going to take the bare bones of my recipe from her.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cook’s Country’s red velvet cake. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianThe colourWith the velvet part of the recipe sorted, it’s time to turn my attention to the red bit, which proves more problematic. The first three I make are definitely brown velvet cakes, which sounds like something you might take to a 70s-themed party. I realise belatedly that the natural food colourings I’ve used are not what the industry might term “bake stable”, so I apologise to Cooks Country magazine and Knutsen for their sad-looking cakes.The colour of Del Mar Sacasa’s cake, however, is entirely deliberate; she’s not a fan of “those bright carmine cupcakes peddled by overhyped bakeries”, which she describes as “dry, stale and lacking in flavour and substance”. For some reason, this translates into a refusal to use food colourings; instead she goes for pureed beetroot and red wine, which gives her cake a warm reddish brown colour. It tastes delicious, but I don’t really get the point. If I wanted a red wine and chocolate cake, I’d make one.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Maria del Mar Sacasa’s red velvet cake. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianA red velvet cake should be unapologetically, showstoppingly gaudy – the baked equivalent of Dolly Parton. And for that, I’m afraid, you need artificial colourings of the sort used by the pros – they’re easily available online, or from specialist baking suppliers. If you’d prefer to avoid them, I’d dispense with any kind of colouring – beetroot adds its own flavour, and this is not the kind of cake that would consider “earthy” a compliment.You also need to keep the rest of the batter as pale as possible, which rules out Del Mar Sacasa’s dark brown sugar, or indeed Knutsen’s generous hand with the cocoa. A hint of chocolate, and a hint of vanilla, is all that’s required; Del Mar Sacasa adds almond extract, too, but again, this falls into the nice-but-not-red-velvet category.A word about the cocoa: most recipes call for “Dutch process” powder, which has been treated to neutralise some of the acidity (which means that it won’t react with the bicarbonate of soda to make the cake red, though given the amount of colouring they use, this is neither here nor there). In Europe, almost all cocoa is treated in this way so, if you’re based here, this isn’t something you need to worry about. If not, check the packaging.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Southern Living’s red velvet cake. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianThe icingSorry, “frosting”. Modern red velvet recipes usually go for that all-American favourite, cream cheese, but testers find this a bit sickly on top of such a buttery cake – especially since, like Southern Living, I’m going to hell in a handcart with a three-layer behemoth (whoever coined the phrase “less is more” clearly didn’t like cake). How to make the perfect millionaire's shortbread Much more interesting are the boiled icings more commonly found in older versions, which start by heating a mixture of sugar, flour and milk until thickened to the consistency of Bird’s custard, and then whip in butter to give an icing which is rich, but not overpoweringly so. In Mims and Del Mar Sacasa’s versions, it really does melt in the mouth. It’s a bit more work than cream cheese, but well worth it. The latter flavours hers with more wine and blood orange juice and zest (not that I could find a fresh blood orange in August), but plain vanilla is more traditional.Knutsen gives a recipe for an even more curious icing that puzzles me still – butter, egg yolks and sugar are whisked together over a gentle heat until thickened, and then mixed with raisins and pecans to give a kind of chewy toffee which can be spread, with some difficulty, over the delicate cake beneath. It’s delicious… but it doesn’t feel much like icing. I do like the crunch of the pecans though, so – since rhinestones aren’t edible – I’m going to add a few as decoration.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Felicity Cloake’s perfect red velvet cake. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianPerfect red velvet cake(Makes 1 large cake)575g plain flour2 tbsp cocoa2 tsp baking powder1 tsp salt450g butter, at room temperature450g white caster sugar5 large eggs, beaten385ml buttermilk1 tsp vanilla extractArtificial red colouring1 tsp bicarbonate of soda1 tbsp cider vinegarFor the icing:285g sugar50g flour350ml milk250g unsalted butter, softened2 tsp vanilla extract25g pecans, to serveGrease and line 3 x 23cm tins with baking parchment. Heat the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4. Sift together the flour, cocoa, baking powder and salt. Beat the butter and sugar together until light and fluffy, then add the eggs, one at a time, beating well to incorporate between each addition.Whisk together the buttermilk, vanilla and enough red colouring to give a vivid red colour. Add a third of the flour to the batter and fold in, followed by half the buttermilk, and repeat until it’s all used up.Stir the bicarb and vinegar together and add to the mixture, then divide between the tins and bake for about 25-30 minutes, until just firm.For the icing, mix the sugar and flour in a large pan and stir in the milk gradually to make a smooth paste. Slowly bring to the boil, stirring regularly, then cook, stirring, until the consistency of thick custard, which should take 5-10 minutes. Allow to cool completely, then add a quarter to the butter and beat until fluffy. Add the rest, along with the vanilla and a good pinch of salt, and beat until very light.Spread the icing between the layers of the cake, then cover the top and sides with the remaining icing. Decorate with pecans. Refrigerate if not eating immediately.Red velvet cake: silly gimmick or gloriously tacky food of the gods? Does it make you see red or glimpse heaven? And where do you stand on artificial food colourings – and is there any point making it without them?