It’s 10am and a selection of Australian alpha nerds are emerging from their tents in a former campground outside Ballan in country Victoria. They’re here for BuzzConf, a high-technology and futurism conference by day and music festival by night.Geeks have always loved their outdoor music festivals and in 2015, two Melbourne-based developers Rick Giner and Ben Dechrai kicked off BuzzConf with a lineup of top-tier tech speakers and local music talent. Time to tap into technology It’s a wide brief – there’s everything from augmented reality and biotech to space travel. There are plenty of on-site soldering irons and a fleet of 3D printers. There’s also a beer tent stocked with local craft brews and a live act playing each night.This is a conference designed with inclusivity in mind: of 11 speakers, six are women – almost unheard-of in the notoriously male tech industry.Dr Leila Alem, an industry leader in virtual and augmented reality, is here to reveal her inside knowledge on bringing the ideas that drive Pokémon Go and Snapchat flower crowns to the workplace. A Pilbara mining worker fixes machinery with remote visual instructions from an expert in Perth. Cows are kitted out with Fitbit-style Silent Herdsman wearable health monitors. A brain-monitoring SmartCap detects when a driver is getting sleepy and wakes them up.Another session offers a new perspective on how we pay for our media. Nic Hodges, head of commercial innovation for News Corp Australia, wants to harness new blockchain technology (used in the Bitcoin cryptocurrency) as a way of allowing people to pay for their media as they consume it: a cent or 10 here, a chunk of an article, picture, slice of an episode or chapter of a book there. It’s a hot-button issue, with newspapers struggling, grandmothers asking grandkids to pirate TV shows for them, and media producers finding their content with someone else’s watermark on it (and someone else’s advertising in the sidebar).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A virtual reality games workshop, held in a tent at a campsite outside Ballan in country Victoria Photograph: BuzzConf 2016In the workshop tent, people are introduced to the new ESP8266 chips: a tiny programmable Wi-Fi-enabled microprocessor, a tenth of the price of comparable Arduino or Raspberry Pi boards (a Chinese innovation that was quietly released without any English documentation to knock down the price of consumer electronics). These gadgets are cheap enough to allow you to add anything you like to the “internet of things”. Want your toaster to text you when breakfast’s ready? Get soldering. The keynote speech is on space. Developer and public speaker Paul Fenwick wants to solve the world’s problems and, when in doubt, solve them with space travel. Mining one single asteroid could provide humanity with a wealth of rare minerals. Putting our solar panels in space could ramp their efficiency orders of magnitude. And if you can solve a problem with space, why wouldn’t you? Space is cool. Everyone loves space. Even more than they love using a specially-developed website to honk the horn of the Tesla S series that’s parked outside the tent.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   In a dedicated kids’ track at Buzzconf, children are invited to make their own games Photograph: BuzzConf 2016Families are encouraged to attend, with free entry for children at an otherwise pricey event. The kids play with endearing anthropomorphic, pod-shaped Dash and Dot robots, building games with BitsBox and bushwhacking zombies in a Minecraft treasure hunt. At the end, they present their games to popular acclaim. (You can try out Skulls by Keiran Taylor, age six.)It’s hard to tell if anyone’s going to leave an event like BuzzConf with a genuine take-home bag of inspiration, creativity and connection, but they’re definitely going to leave with that happy exhaustion and yearning for a shower that comes after a great outdoor festival. And if they’ve managed to build a hat with a BuzzConf badge that wiggles every time someone tweets the #buzzconf hashtag ... well, that’s just gravy, really.