Brought up in north-west London, author and academic China Miéville studied social anthropology at Cambridge followed by a PhD in international relations at LSE. In 2005, his thesis was published as a book, Between Equal Rights: A Marxist Theory of International Law. His novels, often described as “weird fiction”, include the acclaimed The City & the City (2009), Embassytown (2011) and Perdido Street Station (2000). He has won the Arthur C Clarke award three times and the British Fantasy award twice. In addition, he has written various comics, nonfiction books and short story collections. His latest novella, This Census-Taker, is published by Picador on 25 February.1 | MusicCarolyn O’Brien      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Captivating’: Carolyn O’Brien.Among her works in progress, alongside those for more familiar instruments, composer Carolyn O’Brien lists pieces for tap dancer and mixed surfaces, toy piano and “a flock of chirping bird whistles”. Often witty in its fervour and strangeness, O’Brien’s captivating work is never laboured or kooky. Underpinning it is a disquieting urgency, probing the limits of performance. There are several audio files on her website, carolynobrienmusic.com, and to the impatient delight of listeners, there is also now a promise that her forthcoming doctoral recital will soon join them.2 | NonfictionFrom #BlackLivesMatter to Black Liberation by Keeanga-Yamahtta Taylor      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Keeanga-Yamahtta Taylor: ‘combines anger with rare subtlety’.Mainstream political discourse right now, not only but particularly in the US, seems to be on a race to the bottom, eager to plumb and rehabilitate new depths of vileness. The #BlackLivesMatter movement has been one inspiring and salutary dissenting tendency to that and it couldn’t have a better analyst. Comradely and sympathetic without losing critical edge, Taylor always combines anger and rigour with rare and clear subtlety. Her examination of the changing contours of radical race politics is bound to be indispensable.3 | ComicDare to Disappoint by Özge Samanci      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Autobiographies often revolve around specialness, self-aggrandisement camouflaged as the opposite. “I was always a weird kid”, and so on. There’s no such cloying humblebrag in Samanci’s affecting comic book memoir of her everyday youth in Turkey in the 80s and early 90s, of a child’s fascinations – with household items, with family and society, with (winningly) Jacques Cousteau. The art is simple but never twee – not least because, in occasional shocking moments, the horrifying state violence of the time is rendered in exactly the same style as the children’s games.4 | FilmCrumbs (2015)       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Crumbs: ‘the team do miracles with their micro budget’. Photograph: BiraBiro FilmsWhile Mad Max: Fury Road hoovers up awards, this is the other great post-apocalypse movie of 2015. Crumbs is an Ethiopian-Spanish-Finnish co-production, from the melancholy wing of the (newly trendy) tradition of Afrofuturism. Afrodystopianism? Afropostfuturism, surely. In an eerie bowling hall, a sweet love story commences between the superb leads, Selam Tesfayie and Daniel Tadesse. Director Miguel Llansó and the team do miracles with their micro budget: a dilapidated spaceship hangs above an Ethiopia of ghost towns, discarded tat, peculiar Nazis and a combative Santa Claus.5 | PoetrySatellites by Caitlín Doherty       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Cool rigour and generosity’: Satellites by Caitlín Doherty.A tactile and lovely chapbook put out by Tipped Press. In this thematically linked sequence, Doherty, an outstanding young poet, uses our orbital trash, the bric-a-brac of communication tech and a deflating space race as a hook for her interrogations. Even a familiar notion is reinvigorated: the pathos of the first dog in space is not a subject previously untouched, but in her eulogy to Laika, Doherty marries cool rigour and generosity without sentimentality, and if you can get to the end without tearing up you’re stronger than I.6 | FictionAnimal Money by Michael Cisco   Michael Cisco: ‘brilliant and demanding’.Any new novel by Cisco, one of the key figures in the experimental fantastic, is cause for delight. Animal Money, like most of his work, is brilliant and demanding and sui generis. Like the sentient money it depicts, the book seems to expand and forge on with its own strange conspiracies. Simultaneously the strangest high-finance thriller ever and a rumination on value theory and the financial shituation (sic), it deserves to provoke as much excitement among philosophers of money as it does among aficionados of weird fiction.7 | ExhibitionToyen: I See for It Is Night      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Toyen’s Spící (1937) from Museum Kampa. Photograph: Museum KampaThere are two days left to get to Prague’s Museum Kampa to see the works of the astonishing artist Toyen. A founder of the Czech surrealist group in 1934, the erstwhile Marie Čermínová worked across several media, including herself: the new name she chose derived from the revolutionary French citoyen, and with it she refused the conventional feminine of the time. Profoundly political, erotic and minatory, Toyen’s paintings and pen-and-ink work feel like messages smuggled out from bleak dreams or visions we can only half decode.