Everyone has stared up at the stars on a dark night and wondered one of the most universal questions in science – are we alone? Somewhere in the universe (or in other universes) are there more planets like Earth, able to support life either as we know it, or even as we don’t? Are UFOs really signs of alien life? These and other questions are the focus of comedian and physicist Ben Miller’s new book, The Aliens are Coming! Unsurprisingly, the subject matter is wide-ranging, aiming to explore the origins of life, our current understanding of the universe, and pretty much everything to do with our search for extraterrestrial life.You might expect such a book to be boring and inaccessible – and there are a few scary-looking equations – but Miller’s comedic background means that he can explain difficult concepts in a way that allows even the sleepiest reader to understand. Even though it is primarily a book about science, it’s also pretty funny in places, particularly in the descriptions of different scientists, meaning that I was certainly never bored. Who else would compare the idea of the number of planets emitting signals to viewing a crowd at a rock concert, all with lighters in their hands? If you’re a serious scientist, you might find it a little lighthearted, but to me Miller struck exactly the right balance between humour and so-called ‘hard science’. In this case, judging the book by its cover and title gives exactly the right impression of what is to come. You will learn a lot and have fun at the same time.I particularly enjoyed the explanation of Zipf’s law, as applied to language. It is a compromise between the incessant repetition of the same sounds, and the existence of so many similar sounds that it is impossible to distinguish between them. The application of this to the speech of dolphins was also interesting. Dolphins are clearly very intelligent animals, capable of using their own language, and even understanding signed instructions given by humans, as well as having self-awareness and an ability to learn. The work described in this book is an intriguing insight into how we might eventually communicate with intelligent life from other planets.If you are interested to learn about the actual science and research behind your favourite sci-fi, then this is the book for you. Miller applies scientific concepts, like the Fermi paradox, research into quasars, and the Laws of Thermodynamics to a field that has traditionally been considered as being based purely on speculation. An excellent and informative book for all mutant apes, both teens and adults.Buy this book at the Guardian Bookshop 