Masayoshi Matsumoto’s balloon animals are just like the ones you’ll remember from your childhood, only on steroids.Inflated expectations: Masayoshi Matsumoto's balloon animals – in pictures The 26-year-old Japanese artist has created a menagerie of stunningly lifelike animals using nothing more than bog-standard party balloons – and without the glue, elastic ties or marker-pen additions that boost many an entertainer’s act. Matsumoto’s oeuvre goes beyond the traditional dogs and flowers: he produces snails and stingrays, turkeys and toucans, testing the limits of his medium and exploring its playful, childish nature.Of course, he isn’t the first artist, nor will he be the last, to partake in this trend. Jeff Koons made himself a household name with his gargantuan steel sculpture series Balloon Dog, which broke records in 2013 when one of his five supersized hounds became the most expensive work by a living artist sold at auction, going for a staggering $58.4m.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jeff Koons with his Balloon Dog, on display at Chicago’s Museum of Contemporary Art. Photograph: Charles Rex Arbogast/APLast summer, Charles Pétillon installed a huge collection of glowing, white balloons in Covent Garden, drawing crowds to the South Hall of the market building. Try letting go of a single balloon at a music festival to see everyone look up in unison. That’s if you can prise them off the teenagers huffing in tents. The humble helium balloon is set to become an endangered species as more and more cities ban them on environmental grounds.I’ll never forget the amazement I felt as an infant party guest watching an artist create something out of nothing – an animal, a sword, or a dodgy hat transformed in a matter of seconds and with a few calculated twists and turns. To be honest, I still go goggle-eyed – and I’m in company. Even Bill Clinton couldn’t hold back his balloon-induced delight at last month’s Democratic National Convention.Savannah Smith (@savannahhhsmith)I just want someone who thinks of me the way Bill Clinton thinks of balloons. pic.twitter.com/nc7M5X33GxJuly 29, 2016Why do grownups still go crazy for balloons? Is it a product of the human subconscious, a desire to return to the carefree state of childhood? Freud would be pleased. Artists have been capitalising on the infantile playful for years, from Manzoni’s Artist’s Shit to Pollock’s drip paintings, the quintessential target of “my child could do that” naysayers.Party’s over: the end of helium balloons I think balloon art’s appeal – both to artist and viewer – lies in its simplicity. The transience of the medium is refreshing – there is no way to preserve the finished piece. This is something I found out the hard way, as a disappointed child wondering why their new balloon pet had withered away into a wrinkled, latex heap a few days after it was acquired. Life is tough, kids.The fleeting beauty of these works would drive most people, never mind artists, mad – but Matsumoto seemingly thrives on it. Each balloon animal takes him about two hours to complete, with the larger, more complex creatures taking about six. After he completes them, he photographs them for his website – then pops them.Over the course of his artistic life, Matsumoto must have punctured hundreds of hours of hard work – and that’s what makes him different from the Jeff Koons’ of the world. He doesn’t care for consumerism. He doesn’t accept commissions, nor does he sell his talent. His art is created to be enjoyed, then disposed of. Deflated, but not deflating.In a society so concerned with appearances and perfection, it must be liberating to create art that is here one second, gone the next. Maybe we should all strive to be a little more like Matsumoto, appreciating the beauty of things, rather than obsessing over their materiality or value. Let’s learn to accept that something as banal a balloon animal can be wonderful, but also worthless – and that’s OK.