As a botanist with a specialist research interest in edible plants, I am fascinated by the origins of the world’s crops. With an estimated 50,000 edible plant species on the planet, what made the first people to domesticate the wild ancestors of the tiny handful of crops we rely on today choose them above others? Why have some conquered the planet, while others (which are equally tasty and nutritious) languish in obscurity? But above all, what causes some once prized foods that held great promise as global crops essentially disappear from the human diet in over a century or two? For me, a classic example of this conundrum is a delicious Aztec root veg that you probably have in your garden, but have no idea you can eat: dahlias.The starchy sweet potato-like tubers of this old school ornamental plant were first grown by the Meso American cultures who brought us exotic chocolate, vanilla and chillies, but also classic “British” crops such as beans, pumpkins, marrows and sweetcorn. Originally introduced to the UK as a promising edible alongside other everyday favourites, sadly this plant is only known today for its aesthetic appeal. After hundreds of years of western breeding, do today’s dahlias still make good eating? Or have their edible virtues been lost after years of selecting for other traits? The roots are high in inulin, a sweet-tasting, low calorie carb that boosts friendly gut bacteria Frustrated by the lack of information out there, five years ago I decided to run a trial and grow a range of different dahlia varieties. The results were surprising: almost all produced a sizeable root with a pleasant, unexpectedly familiar flavour – a sort of potato crossed with a Jerusalem artichoke. But it was the large, cactus flowered types that tended to be the highest yielding and least fibrous, making them not so fiddly to prepare as others.Since my experimenting, a Swiss colleague, Markus Kobelt, has taken research into edible dahlias one step further, testing hundreds of varieties to select named ones with different flavour profiles, which are now on sale in the UK through his company, Lubera.But why should we eat dahlia roots? Well, why on earth not? In ever shrinking urban gardens you get a dual purpose crop that provides a tasty harvest after a summer of dazzling flowers. And seeing as most gardening advice says to lift and divide dahlias each autumn anyway, it will hardly be much extra work to pick them. For the health nuts out there, their roots are also high in inulin, a sweet tasting, low calorie carbohydrate that can boost friendly gut bacteria. Dahlias are cleverer than they seem.Email James at james.wong@observer.co.uk or follow him on Twitter @Botanygeek