Ian Chillag and Mike Danforth don’t know everything, but that did not stop them from boldly starting a podcast called How to Do Everything. Whether you’re trying to figure out how to take a photograph of your cat, or park your blimp, or make an uneasy penguin feel comfortable, How to Do Everything can help you find an answer. It may not be the right answer, but it will surely be entertaining.Why you should listen“We have a lot of questions,” said Danforth, and when they don’t know the answer they bring in an expert. “The idea is that we don’t know how to do anything, but we find people who do,” said Chillag. Guests have included Supreme Court justice Sonia Sotomayor, actor Patrick Stewart, Breaking Bad creator Vince Gilligan, and Henry “The Fonz” Winkler.The longtime public radio producers (“Between the two of us we’ve been in public radio for almost 200 years,” said Chillag) both spend their days working on the NPR quiz show Wait, Wait … Don’t Tell Me!, which has thrived during their tenures. Due to their success revitalizing Wait, Wait, they were approached by NPR and asked to come up with ideas for a podcast that would appeal to a similar demographic.“We were supposed to produce a show, not host it,” said Chillag. “We took the weekend and came up with the idea of a kind of survival guide. It could include relationship advice or survival tips – anything, really.” Their boss gave them the green light and they had a few trial rounds with different hosts, before realizing that to have the show they envisioned, they would need to host it themselves. “No one was asking the questions we wanted asked, so we decided to try it,” said Danforth.Once they were behind the microphones, the first question they answered was one that should be in any Boy Scout handbook: what to do if you’re stuck in a ski lift. “The answer was to jump … or to definitely not jump. It was one or the other,” laughed Chillag, cracking up Danforth.Their advice is always accurate, if not entirely helpful. For example, a recent caller asked for guidance on how to chase away a scrub jay that kept waking him up while noisily staking out its territory. Their suggestion? Lean out the window and play him their podcast. “I don’t think we gave him great advice on that,” admitted Danforth. “But we made him a sweet mixtape!” added Chillag. “Sometimes we prioritize making it interesting over making it helpful,” said Danforth. “The first place we do that is in the questions we choose to answer.”Chillag said: “Something we struggle with is that we get good questions, but they are things you could see on a morning news show, like how to get through the pain of getting your legs waxed, so we wanted to take a different approach and talk to people who dealt with pain on a daily basis.” The result was two members of the US men’s rugby team talking a woman through her laser hair removal, which you probably wouldn’t see on Good Morning America.That said, their advice is always entertaining and even occasionally helpful enough for the hosts to apply in their own lives. “There are a few things that I do a lot now,” said Chillag. “It has changed the way I open a banana.” He now starts at the bottom, away from the stem.The show has also attracted a younger demographic – more than half of its listeners are under age 35 – with tweens and teens tuning in for advice on how to do everything (with the happy side effect of making their parents irrelevant). “We know our audience by who mails us questions,” said Danforth. “We’ve been surprised by just how many of those questions come from people with a junior high or high school related question.”While they are interested by the demographic quirk, there is no real need to skew their program towards a younger audience. “I think we have a natural adolescence,” laughed Danforth. “The things we are interested in are the things that younger people are going to be interested in.” Joking aside, Danforth acknowledged that they are aware of their show’s broad reach and try to act responsibly. “We’ll occasionally do a warning about subject matter, which we wouldn’t be doing if we weren’t regularly hearing from people who were 12,” said Danforth.The hosts try to select interesting questions to answer, but draw the line at darker ones, such as how to dispose of bodies. Not that they get many questions like that. “We thought we would get a lot of creepy questions, but we really don’t,” said Chillag. “The creepiest question we’ve ever gotten was this guy whose cat kept licking his ear canal.” (The CEO of Jelly Belly weighed in on that one, his qualification being that his company makes an earwax-flavored jellybean.)“We want to make it so that there is some takeaway from every person we talk to,” said Danforth. “If you can imagine somebody talking about it later, it’s probably good,” added Chillag.Even better is if the advice can prevent disaster, which happened when a woman called in to report that their advice on deterring a bear (in short, talk loudly to the bear) actually worked. There aren’t many podcasts in the world that could actually save your life.Where to Start: Your Thanksgiving Survival Guide; Sonia Sotomayor and Some Other Things; Milk and AsparagusSubscribe to How To Do Everything on iTunes or on NPR