Sprinkling almonds into a bowl and spooning on layers of aromatic rice, vegetables, spices and meat stirs up memories of home. Susan may be a long way from her old life as a university lecturer in Damascus but cooking riz bel bazella is a vivid reminder of the family she left behind in Syria. “I was crying as I made this,” she tells Kalpna Woolf, ex-BBC head of production and founder of Bristol’s International Peace Cafe, a pop-up cafe where meals are cooked by people representing many different cultures in the city. “Every time my auntie used to cook it, she’d shout to me that she was making my favourite food. I’d jump over the garden fence to eat it with her.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Yanet (l), originally from Egypt, and Susan (r), a refugee from Syria, meet at Bristol’s International Peace Cafe. Photograph: Rob Wicks at Eat PicturesNow living on her own in one of Bristol’s less salubrious areas, Susan – and others like her – get the chance to share stories and eat communally at the peace cafe.It’s part of the 91 Ways project, also founded by Woolf, which brings together people from the 91 languages spoken in Bristol. Having proved popular – it had 200 people at its first event – the cafe is setting up as a social enterprise. It aims to be self-funding, to plough profits back into the project and to expand.The idea is to establish new cafes across the city and roll out the concept in other parts of the UK. According to its founder, there’s never been a more pressing need for it.“The result of the EU referendum was upsetting,” says Woolf. “But look behind it and you see that the vote was faceless. There’s a lot of unhappiness, people genuinely are struggling. One way to show how much we have in common is to get together over food. It brings communities together.”The peace cafe is part of the new wave of cafes run as social enterprises. Cafes-with-a-conscience or a cause. You can drink an artisan coffee in east or south London at Brewbird, which trains ex-offenders in barista and baking skills, or at the Square Peg in Swansea, where profits are given to charities, or buy a “suspended coffee” to be given for free to a homeless person, at The Lodge Cafe in Chester.An advantage of being public-facing is that these cafes are also well-placed to set a visible example of diversity and opportunity. According to a 2015 report published by Social Enterprise UK, 40% of social enterprises are led by women, 31% have black, Asian and minority ethnic directors, and 41% created jobs in the past 12 months.“People notice how many of [the Brigade’s] front-of-house staff are from eastern Europe as well as Spain and France,” says David Adair, head of community affairs at PricewaterhouseCoopers. It supports The Brigade cafe, a social enterprise in Southwark, London that helps people who are at risk of or have experienced homelessness to gain employment.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Simon Boyle and apprentices preparing food at The Brigade Cafe in Southwark, London. Photograph: The Brigade CafeHe says: “We’re located in a culturally diverse, multi-ethnic community and we encourage local people to work here too, which brings people together.”When the social enterprise has the added bonus of being a cafe, it means people are being trained in skills that give them a chance of long-term employment, says Sue McAllister, director general of the Northern Ireland prison service.The Cabin Café at Belfast’s Hydebank Wood college, a young offenders secure unit, has been so successful it’s now setting up as a social enterprise (so it can run self-sufficiently). While it brings those on the inside together with the staff and the local community, it also, crucially, helps secure employment for people when they leave.“The hospitality industry is often willing to give people a go,” says McAllister. “We’ve had people who have served sentences go on to work in local businesses. It’s helped to make people employable and to connect with the community, which reduces the chance of people re-offending.”Gone are the days when good-cause cafes meant a cuppa and a biscuit in church halls. To turn a profit – albeit one you are giving away – you have to provide a caffeine hit and a showstopper of a cake that competes with local businesses. “When we set up Paper & Cup in Shoreditch, we consciously designed it to look like any other cafe here,” says addiction therapist Brent Clark. “People’s expectation of coffee is very high. My thinking was we’d get customers to come for the coffee, and when they later learned about the work we do with recovering addicts it would be an added bonus.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Paper & Cup cafe in Shoreditch, London. Photograph: James BelloriniIt’s worked. To the point that even when the cafe runs sessions for those in recovery, giving away free cake and coffee, members of the general public still come in. “We give them a coffee and cake too and explain what’s going on,” says Clark. “At least half of them stay and socialise. The joy for me is when I see everyone mixing together.”Many of those working in these cafes with a cause say cafes like this have evolved into an essential enterprise: it’s not an added luxury or a quick way to make splashing out on a latte feel like a charitable donation.Woolf says: “With the divisions that Brexit highlighted, the urgent need to break down barriers and the economic need to create jobs and opportunities, cafes like this have become an absolute must-have in our society.”