David Rodigan is explaining the rules of a reggae soundclash to me. He is doing it with breathless enthusiasm, but it is still taking quite a long time because, as it turns out, the rules of a reggae soundclash are a thing of byzantine complexity. I’d always assumed that it was just a matter of two DJs each battling to win over a crowd by playing better records than each other, with a heavy emphasis on dubplates (specially recorded tracks with vocals that mention the DJ by name). But, apparently, I couldn’t have been more wrong. There are different rounds, point-scoring systems, grounds for disqualification and strategies that make it, as Rodigan puts it, “the musical equivalent of a chess game”, in which “DJs deliberately set a trap. So, they know you’ve got a big dubplate by X, they go to X and get them to voice a counter-action.”I’m sorry, a counter-action? “So, you’ve got a brilliant record by Johnny Osbourne – you get him to record a dubplate that names you. And I do the same thing. So, I’ve got a dubplate that says, ‘I’m David Rodigan,’ and you’ve got a dubplate saying you’re Alexis, OK? On the night, if you play your Alexis dub and I play my David Rodigan dub, we’re quits, right? We’re equal. But if you lure me into playing that dubplate and then sting me with one saying your name and telling me I’m crap, I’m dead. Unless I can come back like a lion and claw you down.” He smiles. “So, it gets very complicated.”On the one hand, this is both fascinating and very much what one expects when one interviews Rodigan. As detailed in his forthcoming autobiography, My Life in Reggae, he started out as an actor, but in 1978 parlayed an obsession that began as a teenage fan into a parallel career as a broadcaster. He has now spent the best part of 40 years as Britain’s most celebrated reggae DJ. At 65, he is both a legend in the Jamaican music industry and a national treasure in the UK: he is probably the only person ever to have been awarded an MBE and the title of World Clash Champion.On the other, there’s something about meeting Rodigan in person that brings home rather forcefully what a deeply improbable state of affairs this all is. He looks, as he cheerfully admits, “like a bank manager”. He also speaks in the perfectly modulated RP tones of a newsreader from the days before regional accents were allowed to sully Britain’s airwaves, a legacy of his time at the Rose Bruford College of Theatre and Drama. The disparity between how he talks and what he talks about somehow seems more jolting when it’s coming from across a table in a restaurant rather than out of a radio. You just don’t get many people who look and sound like Rodigan telling you about the time his DJ set in a Kingston dance hall called Ashanti Junction went down so well that bullets started ricocheting off the roof. “My first gun salute,” he says. “It really was quite a fright. And then the crowd started shouting, ‘Legal! Legal!’, which meant that it was an off-duty policeman, rather than a gangster, who had fired his gun.”That disparity isn’t the only remarkable thing about Rodigan’s brand of conversation. It’s not just that he has a bountiful supply of anecdotes, as you might expect from a man who collapsed midway through an interview with Burning Spear after unwisely deciding to share the roots legend’s spliff, and endured a visit from Lee “Scratch” Perry during which the errant producer decided to redecorate Rodigan’s south-London flat with the aid of a marker pen. It’s that his anecdotes come with copious footnotes. He seems incapable of mentioning a track without also telling you which record company released it, who the backing musicians were, or who produced it: “Rudie Bam Bam by the Clarendonians: brilliant keyboards, must have been Jackie Mitoo playing piano, Studio One production, Coxsone Dodd … Roy Richards’ Contact: amazing harmonica playing, I first heard it on an album called Club Ska 67, but it originally came out on a label called Doctor Bird.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rodigan in 1985. Photograph: David Corio/Redferns“It’s like that thing that Jane Wyman said about her ex-husband Ronald Reagan,” he smiles. “Ask Ronnie the time and he’ll tell you how a watch is made.” Still, he says, perhaps this fanatical obsession with detail was the reason he was so quickly accepted by the reggae world. You might reasonably have expected the Jamaican music industry to look on a well-spoken white English interloper with profound suspicion, but everyone there appears to have loved Rodigan from the first time he fetched up on the island in 1979, looking for interviews for his Radio London show. “I have to presume they saw in me an open book,” he says. “They saw in me a transparency, that I was so hooked on the music that I wasn’t a bandwagonist. They one thing they hated was bandwagonism; people using the music as a means to an end. I remember once being with [producer] Gussie Clarke and a member of the group Cultural Roots, and I was asking him: ‘Were you in another band before? Were you a solo artist? Aren’t you on this record?’ and I mentioned the name of a track. The guy frowned at me and went: ‘How did you know that?’ and Gussie laughed and said: ‘Mi ask that question long time ago.’ And I suppose that was the difference between somebody who was casually interested in something and someone who was frankly obsessed. And I’m obsessed,” he adds, perhaps unnecessarily.He thinks his obsession might have been driven by the alien nature of the ska records he heard as a teenager in the late 60s, after chancing upon a jukebox in a Jamaican cafe called Sloopy’s while on holiday in Margate, and then later in an Oxford record shop that serviced the West Indian community in Cowley. “I couldn’t for the life of me figure out how they made them; I couldn’t understand the lyrics. At school lunchtimes, I’d go to the theatre where they had a drumkit and try to play the rhythm tracks, that crazy backbeat, everything back to front. I was just insatiable: how do they do it, where do they do it, where does it come from?”Whatever the reason, for a long time, it was a solitary pursuit. One of the most striking things about Rodigan’s autobiography is the way it conjures up a forgotten era when reggae was reviled by liberal, hippyish music fans because of its association with skinheads. At one juncture, his fellow students agreed to share a house with him only if Rodigan agreed not to play reggae within their earshot: “Oh, yeah, there was a lot of that: ‘Why do you like this? This is music for people who beat up Pakistanis.’” Instead, he would haunt London’s specialist record shops and sneak out to Jamaican clubs alone. “Acton Town Hall, Friday night, with the sound systems strung up, Count Solomon’s dances in Sheffield, the Stoke West Indian Club. I wouldn’t dance or anything, I’d just stand somewhere inconspicuous and listen.”After a girlfriend encouraged him to apply for a vacant slot on BBC Radio London, his career skyrocketed, partly because of reggae’s commercial ascendance in late-70s Britain (its mainstream success was such that at one point Rodigan found himself booked to DJ at the Ideal Home Exhibition, alongside a live performance by Dennis Brown) and partly, one suspects, because of his infectious enthusiasm. His radio show became such a Sunday lunchtime fixture in the capital’s West Indian households that it was colloquially known as Rice ’n’ Peas. In Jamaica, after he began clashing live on national radio with DJ Barry G, he became so famous that his name was even adopted by a Kingston gangster. “Yes, Rodigan. He’s dead now. It was one of those bizarre situations where a gangster takes on someone’s name because he perceives them as bad. In my case, I was bad because I was out there beating up – so to speak – Jamaican sound systems. The first thing I knew about it was when people came back from Jamaica and said: ‘You’ve been there recently.’ ‘No, I haven’t.’ ‘Nuh, man, them call your name inna dancehall.’ ‘What?’ Turns out they’ve been calling this gangster’s name at dances because he was a bit of a Robin Hood character – he provided his area with things they needed. Then, people thought I’d been shot in New York because he came out of a club there and they went for him, they rinsed him, but that time he survived.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   DJing in Antigua 2006. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoIn recent years, he has found his live DJ appearances have started attracting a far younger audience. He was, as he puts it, “taken out of my reggae bubble and dropped into another world”, when dubstep nights began to book him. He had started playing the odd dubstep track after his eldest son introduced him to the music. “There was direct lineage with reggae there; a cord between the two genres. I felt there was a righteous connection. I got booked to play Fabric, and I was crapping myself. It was like the first time I ever DJed at a club – the Apollo in Willesden – in the 70s when I was shaking so much that I couldn’t get the needle on to the record. The audience was very young, but I took some props – an Augustus Pablo album sleeve, a photo of Big Youth, an album sleeve with King Tubby on it – and I held them up and explained: ‘I’m going to play a dubplate from King Tubby,’ and it was like …” He finds himself momentarily lost for words. “They got it. They got the reggae fever. I was dancing around onstage like I always do, and I could see these kids looking at me and saying: ‘That’s my dad, or my uncle up there, except this guy’s nuts.’”There are times, he says, when he has felt despondent about the state of reggae, about how marginalised it has seemed, but he currently thinks it’s in rude health. He talks about an “amazing new wave” of roots artists including Chronixx and Protoje, whom he plays on his Radio 1Xtra show – he seems to fulfil the same beloved elder-statesman role on the station as John Peel once did at Radio 1 – and about how the sound has erupted into the mainstream over the last six months. “That new Ed Sheeran record, Shape of You, is a dancehall record. Drake and Rihanna use dancehall beats, Sean Paul’s resurgent again. These are all interpretations of music from the island of Jamaica. And,” he smiles, “I’m just waiting for the Jamaican artists to start making records about Trump. If that doesn’t happen, there’s something wrong with our music. Because that’s what our music does: in its essence, in its purity, in its driving force, it speaks out for the defenceless, it speaks for the underprivileged.”Rodigan: My Life in Reggae is published by Constable (£20). To order a copy for £17, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.