The original grim purpose of a pretty little octagonal building in a London cemetery has been identified after years of assuming it was just a lockup for gravediggers’ tools. It is the only survivor of a campaign to stop the poor from keeping the bodies of their dead at home until they could raise the money for a funeral, and is being given Grade II-listed status in honour of its historic importance.At a time when epidemics of cholera were ravaging poor areas of London and other cities, public health campaigners identified the dangers of bodies kept at home for days or even weeks, often in the single room where entire families ate and slept. The “reception house” in the Margravine cemetery in Hammersmith, west London, is the sole survivor of many built to store dead bodies until burial.Burial mounds make a comeback in 21st-century Britain They were built after a report on public sanitation was produced in 1843 by Edwin Chadwick, who added a special supplement on burial practices. He gathered horrifying evidence of how long bodies might be kept in the home of a poor family, lying on a board covered with a sheet or on the only table, while the family struggled to earn or borrow the funds for a funeral. Several days was the usual, and up to a week not uncommon. One undertaker in Whitechapel told Chadwick: “I have known them to be kept three weeks: we every week see them kept until the bodies are nearly putrid … and the poor people, women and children, are living and sleeping in the same room at the same time.”It was the stone shelves, each the length of a coffin, and the slatted ventilation panels in the roof that gave the first clues to local historian Robert Stephenson, a trustee of the friends who now help care for the Victorian cemetery. He then found a 1940s map in the archives that marked it as a “receiving house”.“The proper term is reception house, a place where the dead could be brought and stored safely, though they have been called receiving houses – an unfortunate term, since it was also used for both brothels and places where stolen good were fenced,” he said.When the friends eventually found the keys to the stoutly locked door, they discovered that the original trestles for coffins, and the biers to carry them to the graveside, last used 150 years ago, were still there stored neatly under the shelves.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A coffin placed inside the reception house. Photograph: DCMS/PA Roger Bowdler, director of listing at Historic England, said: “The history of death is the history of life as well: of how we remember, how we improve public health, and how we separate the living from the dead. Nowhere tells this as eloquently as a cemetery, and Margravine cemetery contains some truly eloquent reminders of the London way of death.”The building was probably only used for a few years for its original purpose before it really did become a tool store. The reception houses were soon replaced in London and other cities by more elaborate public mortuaries, with several rooms and space for postmortems, as well as undertakers who began to add chapels of rest to their premises.A local undertaker, James Shackleton, brought a coffin to lay on the trestles for the photographers. He didn’t have a pauper’s coffin in stock, so brought instead their oldest, which has been in the company’s stores since 1922 when it was made for his grandfather, the Polar explorer Ernest Shackleton. Shackleton died of a heart attack onboard his final expedition ship, and the elaborate coffin was never used because the decision was taken to bury him in South Georgia rather than repatriate him.