The good news is that Cassie has finally figured it all out. The bad news is we have to wait until next week to discover exactly what she figured out. There are moments of levity, even joy this week, but there is also a breakup, memories of abuse and a confirmed false rape accusation.The victim Cassie has the bit between her teeth, cranking up the pressure to see who cracks. After she sends Murray to go after Maria Gonzalez, he returns with her testimony that she set up Colin for her old nightclub boss David Walker. Osborne was a “nosy little fucker”, he told her. Colin’s breakdown now makes total sense.Cassie handles Ellen Price personally, which means wading through some grisly memories. Ellen remembers Walker arguing with a wife or girlfriend outside the house in Brentford, then the woman giving her a lift home. When shown teenage photos of the suspects, Ellen struggles to place them but she is pretty certain Sara was there.DI Tessa Nixon Tessa has never felt more alone. After Paul walked out last week, Jason leaves her too, and she burns him with a comment about “that depressing little flat and your pretend friends”. Sunny makes a bad week worse still when he brings her in for questioning again. He doesn’t believe someone with her smarts and training could live with a monster like Walker for years without suspecting anything. Perhaps she followed him one evening and discovered him with a child? She categorically rejects this, but when he mentions the blue convertible Golf that Ellen says she was driven home in, Tessa suddenly looks shaken.Colin Osborne      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Colin is the Terminator. Photograph: ITVAs he clearly regards him as some kind of posh-boy pushover, Colin reminds Tyler of his previous threat.“I’m not the kind of man who forgets when someone screws him over.” “That’s very Liam Neeson.”Oh, but it’s not, Tyler. Colin was forged in a much crueller decade – the 80s. He’s not Bryan Mills, he’s the Terminator. And he’ll be back (in the cafe on Wednesday at 3pm with your hush money).In one of his now regular visits to the police station, Cassie brings up the rape allegation made by Maria. Drinking to oblivion was a regular pastime for Colin back then, and he has spent the last 25 years believing he committed the rape. The revelation that he was set up floors him, but he still denies any knowledge of the Brentford parties. The past poisons everything. After Colin misses picking up Flora from school again, Simon tells him they can’t have chaos in her life. He’s going to tell all to social services, even if it means losing her – and Colin doesn’t object. It’s a reminder that Flora’s future is in the balance as well.Marion Kelsey      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nothing is sticking to Marion … at least for now. Photograph: ITVThere is a rare piece of good news for Marion when Zoe is found safe, if not entirely well, in a B&B. “You asked me to take the wall down Tony – but that’s what’s behind it,” she explains. “What I did to her, what I do to every relationship I’ve ever had – fuck it up.”She’s not proving an easy suspect either. She outright denies Sinead Quinn’s accusation that she put forward Walker as an assassination target, claiming it’s Quinn’s revenge after she testified against her. She also claims to have been in Ireland during the period the Brentford parties were happening. Nothing is sticking to her – at least for now.Marion later makes up with Zoe at the hospital, telling her she hurts anyone who gets too close. As if to illustrate the point, she accuses Tony out of the blue of fathering Elise’s children. She finishes with him and he’s done arguing with her.“I don’t think I’m good for you any more, Maz.”Sara Mahmoud      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sara’s past pays a visit to Hassan. Photograph: ITVAs Cassie questions Sara about her past, her past pays a visit to Hassan. Her father shows up at the front door. He’s looking pretty sprightly for a man killed in a car crash and he is ready to shed light on how Sara ended up in a King’s Cross brothel. After Sara’s mother died when she was 12, grief and rage threw her into a tailspin of drink, drugs and truancy. He kicked her out in desperation when she was 13, and has been searching for her ever since.As Sara is questioned, she stonewalls but flashes back to the Brentford house. She was there all right. And Hassan is there for her now, sifting through the attic by himself and turning up ticket stubs and date-stamped photos that prove her alibi.Drinking to forget Marion was in Ireland, Sara was in Italy and Colin was in hospital when Walker was killed. This case just keeps slapping Cassie in the face, so she takes out her frustrations by hitting the booze with Sunny in The Enterprise. Sunny tries to boldly go where no man has gone before, aiming for a make-out with his boss, leading to my favourite exchange of the entire series.“That was just cripplingly embarrassing,” she says.“There’s no reason you should feel in any way ...”“N, not for me – for you.”Fortunately for Sunny, it’s right then that Cassie has an epiphany. She sees a way everything fits together. “And if I’m right,” she says, “there are gonna be more bodies.” Bloody hell.Notes and observations      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Superb … Mark Bonnar has been the star of this series against stiff competition. Photograph: ITVMartin is brought home drunk by the police, seemingly after a spectacularly misguided trip to Egham to confront his dead wife’s lover. More details when we have them.It’s a masterstroke from Cassie to get Sara, Colin and Marion all together in the waiting area. Eye contact is minimal and tension high – it does not go unnoticed.Jason and Cath from downstairs shippers club (population: me) have a heartrending moment when she hears him sobbing behind his door and leaves food for him outside. I swear there’s a future for these kids.Like Walker, the social worker who lived at the Brentford house would have been in a good position to procure children for the parties.Mark Bonnar is superb in the scene where he is told he never raped Maria. He’s been the star of this series against stiff competition.Going into the finale, I would like all your theories on how David Walker got into that suitcase. Who was his abuser, who actually stuck the knife in and who knew about it? Also, if there are more bodies – whose? Please blow my mind below.