Horizon8pm, BBC2Subtitled The End of the Solar System, this episode of the documentary series is best imagined as a trailer for the ultimate horror movie. It was filmed in the mid-western American town of Peoria, Illinois – which, helpfully, has a scale model of the solar system embedded in its cityscape. This, along with the insights of astronomers, is used to outline the consequences of the eventual overheating of our Sun. The bad news: we’re doomed. The good news: it’s a way off yet. Andrew MuellerScott & Bailey9pm, ITVThis brand-new three-part story sees Rachel return to Syndicate 9 as acting DI following a secondment to That London, much to the chagrin of colleagues suspicious of such highfalutin southern city ways. Banter soon goes onto the back burner, though, as a local murder investigation gets complicated when the grisly act itself is uploaded to the dark web. With the malevolent webmaster promising more, it’s lucky that Rachel arrives armed with new tricks up her sleeve. Well, on a USB stick. A welcome return. Mark Gibbings-JonesFive-Star Babies: Inside the Portland Hospital 9pm, BBC2The Portland is the UK’s only private maternity hospital, and has a split personality: part top-notch medical facility, part five-star hotel. As one employee puts it: “It’s not every hospital that stocks Dom Perignon.” At upwards of £8,000 for a birth package, that’s exactly what you might expect. This real-lifer meets people from all parts of the enterprise, including consultant (and countess) Penelope Law and nurse Pat, whose job it is to get Middle Eastern princes to change nappies. John RobinsonNormal For Norfolk10pm, BBC2They talk about homelessness but, by golly, it’s possible to have too much home, you know. Gentleman farmer Desmond McCarthy is engaged in a permanent struggle to keep afloat his 17th-century Norfolk country manor, as well as preserve a lifestyle of vital aristocratic pursuits such as massacring birds. In this observational documentary we see the crustily eccentric Desmond seek to renovate a cottage and greet a reviewer from The Oldie magazine to raise funds. He also farms asparagus. Lots of asparagus. David StubbsWhat British Muslims Really Think10pm, Channel 4This documentary might have shot its controversy bolt rather early. It attacks the progressive’s assumption that extremism is, as the name implies, rare among UK Muslims, via the results of an attitudes survey – which was trailed by presenter Trevor Phillips in the Sunday papers and discussed to death on Monday. That more than half of respondents wish homosexuality were illegal made headlines, but there followed a blizzard of questions about methodology and the figures’ real significance. What more will Phillips add? Jack SealeThe Interviews10pm, GOLD“Contact is everything,” Brucie states, during this run through the Forsyth saga via his talk show appearances. As evinced here, it’s that ability to connect with a popular audience, from the Generation Game to Strictly, that’s ensured a 70-year career. If his persona’s that of a twittering old lady, it clearly hides the skin of a rhino, abetted by a smart self-deprecation and lightning-fast wit. “My real name’s Bruce Joseph Forsyth-Johnson,” he tells Michael Aspel. “What happened to Johnson?” “Same thing that happened to Joseph.” Ali CatterallThe 1009pm, E4The post-apocalypse has never looked so glamorous, but that perfectly sculpted cast sure do get into some scrapes in an action-packed episode. Grief-stricken Clarke (Eliza Taylor) makes a shocking discovery, and Octavia has a tough decision to make. There’s big trouble for Lincoln – played by Brit beefcake Ricky Whittle, who proves he’s well and truly shaken off the Hollyoaks/Strictly Come Dancing shackles. In matters of love that have been a long time coming, Kane and Abby finally get closer. Hannah VerdierFilm ChoiceCrazy Heart(Scott Cooper, 2009) 1.30am, Channel 4Jeff Bridges mixes that ol’ easy-going charm with a world-weary honesty in his Oscar-winning turn as Bad Blake, a veteran country singer whose life of booze, women and smalltown gigs changes when he meets aspiring journo and single mum Jean (Maggie Gyllenhaal). In truth, it’s hard to see what this smart, much younger woman sees in the old stumblebum, but the top performances and T-Bone Burnett’s fine country songs make this engaging if hokey tale work. Paul HowlettStarred Up(David Mackenzie, 2013) 10.55pm, Film4This bleak, brutal prison drama has rising star Jack O’Connell as 19-year-old Eric who, uncontrollable in juvenile detention, is transferred to proper prison where he finds his own, useless father (Ben Mendelsohn) among the inmates. A lot of violence and contorted emotional anguish ensues, and screenwriter Jonathan Asser, drawing on his experience as a psychotherapist at Wandsworth prison, keeps it feeling real, while O’Connell is an electrifying presence.Today’s best live sport• IPL Cricket: Kolkata Knight Riders v Mumbai Indians. Will England’s Jos Buttler get a game for Mumbai? 3pm, Sky Sports 1• Weightlifting: European Championships Still more action from Norway. 6.30pm, Eurosport 1• Champions League Football: Benfica v Bayern Munich. With Athletico Madrid v Barcelona on BT Sport Europe. 7pm, BT Sport 2• MLB: Seattle Mariners v Texas Rangers Coverage of the American League West clash. 8.30pm, BT Sport 1