“Legacy,” said Sebastian Coe, the triumphant chair of the London 2012 bid, when the UK capital won the right to host the Olympic games, “is probably nine-tenths of what this process is about – not just 16 days of Olympic sport.”Four years on, his nebulous L word has become a tangible thing, a concept that rambles across 560 acres of east London’s Lower Lea Valley, in the form of housing, shopping malls and some rather large sheds. You can now live, work and play in the Olympic legacy, and shop and eat there too, while marvelling at the cranes busy summoning further chunks of legacy from the ground. That London has a lasting physical inheritance from its two-week £12bn jamboree is indisputable, but what kind of place is the promised Legacy-land turning out to be? Athletic builds: the architecture of the London 2012 Olympics So far, it’s an odd one. It is somewhere that feels more like an accidental suburban campus than a real piece of London – a place where the different functions that make up a city have been separated out, each built without much thought given to how they relate.The sports venues are all enjoying healthy afterlives, some at more expense than others. The once flat-pack stadium has finally been made permanent, retrofitted to host West Ham Football Club at a cost that brings its total to more than £700m. Olympic chiefs now admit the demountable arena was a preposterous idea, but they simply couldn’t find a permanent tenant at the time. The Pringle-shaped velodrome continues to delight, hovering above the wilder northern half of the park, while the awkwardness of finding the entrance to Zaha Hadid’s Aquatics Centre is mainly forgiven once you’re paddling beneath its impressive whale-like roof. Hawkins\Brown's Nu Rave Pompidou at Here East, Olympic ParkA photo posted by Olly Wainwright (@ollywainwright) on Jul 23, 2016 at 7:00am PDTAcross the park, the gargantuan hangars of the media and press centres, which many feared would be the hardest to find a viable use for, have been reborn as Here East, a data centre and tech startup hub that styles itself as “the most ambitious technology innovation centre Europe has ever seen”. Dressed up in a new costume of dazzle camouflage decals and brightly coloured pipes, it looks like a nu rave Pompidou Centre, and it’s strangely in keeping with the landscape of industrial sheds scattered along the banks of the river Lea. It may well be a warehouse of Nathan Barley cliches – “It’s all about the authenticity, vibrancy and innovation of east London,” says CEO Gavin Poole – but Here East’s tenants already include branches of University College London and Loughborough University, BT Sport and Wayne McGregor’s dance studio, while artists’ spaces are coming soon. The car crash of post-Olympic Stratford​ slams you in the face from most areas of the park       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An artist’s impression of Stratford Waterfront, part of the planned Cultural and Education District. Photograph: Forbes Massie/Queen Elizabeth Olympic ParkThe park itself, which once felt like a manicured golf course airlifted here from Florida, is already wonderfully mature. The promised shagginess, so characteristic of the Lea, has been allowed to return (minus the heaps of car tyres and piles of fridges), while its sloping lawns and elaborate playscapes throng with local families every weekend. If this all sounds like an achievement, it is. At this stage in the process, most other host cities were still fighting over what to do with their Olympic remains. But things get less comfortable when you look more closely at what’s lurking beyond the shrubbery.Into Orbit: my dizzying drop down the world's biggest slide In fact, you don’t need to look hard. The car crash of post-Olympic Stratford slams you in the face from most areas of the park. There is the cut-and-paste hulk of Westfield shopping mall and the marching eastern bloc slabs of the former athletes’ village, now joined by a cacophony of luxury stumps poking on to the horizon. There’s Glasshouse Gardens (“the address that addresses it all”), Stratford Central (“redefining the London skyline”) and, pride of place on the edge of the park, the sloping monster wedge of a Unite student housing block, rightly shortlisted for the Carbuncle Cup, along with the woeful steel tangle of the ArcelorMittal Orbit – so far costing £10,000 a week to maintain.“The middle classes are swarming into our borough at a rate of knots,” says Robin Wales, the Labour mayor of Newham – one of four London boroughs straddled by the Olympic park – who seems alternately proud of and alarmed by the phenomenon, depending on his audience. Arguably, he should have been more wary of the speculative investors who flocked here to reap the spoils of the Olympic goldrush, their ambition now wrought on the skyline as a physical bar-chart of inflated land values.Much of what has materialised so far dates from a pre-existing plan for a mixed-use commercial development around Stratford station, once known as Stratford City, which was conveniently hijacked and accelerated by the games. The muddled history is evident in the result: the gilded souks of Westfield lie on one side of the tracks (wildly successful, with a footfall of 42 million a year), while the athletes’ village stands on the other. Built at a cost of £1bn to the taxpayer, the 2,800 homes, since branded East Village to give them a metropolitan ring, were later sold to Qatar for around half that amount. On the plus side, half the units are available for affordable rent, which is a significantly higher proportion than what has come along since.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The sloping monster wedge’ ... Unite’s Carbuncle Cup shortlisted student housing close to the Olympic Park. Photograph: George RexThe next phase of Stratford City, known as the International Quarter, is only now becoming apparent. Developed by Lendlease, the Australian giant behind the controversial regeneration of the Heygate estate, this dense cluster of office buildings, designed by Rogers Stirk Harbour + Partners, will contain 4m sq ft of workspace, forming a glacial cliff-edge along the eastern edge of the park, opposite Zaha’s swooping pool. Jollied up with some of Rogers’ trademark red and yellow lift cores, these commercial slabs will at least block the view of Stratford’s tackier towers.At 42 storeys, Manhattan Loft Gardens is one shaft that refuses to be blocked out. Standing between Westfield and the East Village, it is the brainchild of Harry Handelsman, the maverick developer of St Pancras Chambers and the Chiltern Firehouse, who insists it will be “the most exciting tower ever built”, its terraced gardens creating “a true vertical community”. A community marketed by Harrods might not be quite the legacy Olympic bods had in mind when they talked of the 12,000 new homes that would arrive here, at the nexus of four of London’s poorest boroughs. Yet the wider impact of the Olympic project has been to sprinkle a kind of steroidal fairy dust across surrounding sites, fertilising muscular slabs of ever more luxurious investment units – as if the athletes weren’t the only ones doping. On such developments around the edge the park, the legacy planning team has achieved an average of less than 19% affordable housing. On developments around the edge the park, the legacy team has achieved an average of less than 19% affordable housing Within the bounds of the park itself, the London Legacy Development Corporation (LLDC), the mayoral vehicle responsible for managing the legacy – a similar model to the London Docklands Development Corporation, responsible for the creation Canary Wharf – has been able to exert a bit more control. Alarmed by what was appearing the other side of the fence, they redrew the overarching plan, scaling back the number of homes to around 7,000. What was going to be a world of high-density blocks similar to the athletes’ village, became a low-rise cosy vision of more Londony things like terraces and squares, mansion blocks and mews houses.The first phase, Chobham Manor, south of the majestic velodrome, is still mostly under construction but shaping up well. The launch saw people queuing up overnight to snap up some of the 850 units off-plan (two-bed mews houses for £695,000, five-bed townhouses for £1m), perhaps more a sign of London’s dysfunctional housing market than any indicator of the quality of the scheme. It is a perfectly fine arrangement of terraces and low-rise apartment blocks, in tune with the recent bricky London vernacular, but – built by volume house-builder Taylor Wimpey and designed by corporate architects PRP and Make – it is not exactly the most dazzling outcome such a unique opportunity could have delivered.Olympic legacy mapEast Wick and Sweetwater, the next phases – across the canal from Hackney Wick and Fish Island along the western edge of the park – look set to follow a similar model, only built by Balfour Beatty and the marginally more interesting architecture practices of Sheppard Robson and Studio Egret West. “We’re trying to create a place that feels rooted in the London vernacular,” says Dan Burr, partner at Sheppard Robson. “It should have the richness and diversity of a typical Hackney neighbourhood that’s evolved over the years.”These are encouraging words, and most of the plan looks good, but it is still a decidedly suburban model, with little thought for mixed use. A question mark looms at the eastern edge of the site, where the buildings could shoot up in scale in response to what has just been proposed next door. The word “landmark” has been whispered.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Not the most dazzling outcome such a unique opportunity could have delivered … Chobham ManorIt’s clear they want some stature to match what will now be a 47-storey gateway to the Olympic park, the pair of luxury apartment towers that will trumpet the jewel in the crown of the legacy vision. This is a cultural mega-hub where the V&A, Sadler’s Wells and London College of Fashion will huddle together, forming an island of civilisation at the foot of Rogers’ office blocks. Formerly known as Olympicopolis, now catchily rebranded as the Stratford Waterfront Cultural and Education District, this £850m complex is the work of Allies and Morrison, the safe-pair-of-hands architects in charge of much of the Olympic masterplan, and O’Donnell + Tuomey, Ireland’s unparalleled magicians of bricks.Latest vision revealed for Olympicopolis arts quarter in east London A family of staggered boxy forms set on a stepped podium of sloping ramps and terraces, the proposals appear to have some of the best qualities of the Southbank Centre, with overhanging levels to perch and people-watch, and plenty of sheltered spaces for outdoor performances and events. “We want the buildings to feel raw, robust and ready for work,” says Alex Wraight, partner at Allies and Morrison. “The place will have a wharf-like quality, in tune with the industrial heritage of the area.” With such effusive, attention-grabbing neighbours, choosing not to shout so loud was wise, although there’s a danger it might all feel a bit dour. Given the dream brief, to combine three prestigious cultural institutions on a riverside site, many were hoping for something with a bit more pizzazz.Even so, the life of the tenants should brighten it up. The V&A East promises to be an “entirely new kind of civic institution”, a platform for experimentation and making, while Sadler’s Wells’ outpost will incorporate a hip-hop academy for local youth alongside its 550-seat dance theatre. The presence of 6,500 fashion students won’t go amiss either, providing ready-made beautiful people to drape themselves stylishly across the terraces. Given all the money spent, they really have made a disappointing job of itMark Brearley, Cass school       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The proposed V&A East, whose shifting form is ‘inspired by the drawers of a Japanese incense box in the museum’s collection’. Photograph: Forbes Massie/Queen Elizabeth Olympic ParkThe only elephant in the room, one that every architecture team wrestled with in the competition, is the presence of the two enormous towers at the northern end of the site, the supersized counterweight in the rickety see-saw of legacy financing. As LLDC development director Rosanna Lawes puts it: “These are the harsh realities of the need to fund this scheme.”It is a recurring theme across the park, where the financial imperative to pay back the crushing Olympic debt looms large over every plot. It is the same reason the promise of setting aside sites for brave experiments with community land trusts and custom-build projects rapidly faded away when the accountants saw the sums, and why all the neighbourhoods planned so far only can only muster an average of 30% affordable housing.“As a board, we have to pay back the money we’ve borrowed to do the work so far, using land sales to the private sector,” says LLDC chair David Edmonds. Pressed on why there isn’t a higher proportion of affordable rents across the park, he is frank: “We have yet to find an economic mechanism that provides that rent level.”The trouble with the Olympic Games They’re going to have to find a way, and fast. In one of his first moves as London mayor, Sadiq Khan has put pressure on the legacy team to up their game to providing 50% affordable housing. The next phases, at Marshgate Wharf and Pudding Mill at the southern end of the park, are currently being revised to meet the new target. A significantly higher density to pay for it all is the likely outcome.Overall, there remain many of the problems and awkwardness you might expect with trying to fit a new piece of city on an island site configured for a fleeting mass event. “I still wince at some of the infrastructure,” says Selina Mason, former design director in charge of post-Games transformation, who’s now heading up the masterplan for a new UCL campus at the southern end of the park. “The roads were designed to get athletes and officials around the site as quickly as possible, but I wish we’d focused much more on pedestrians.”For all that’s been achieved in four years, critics of the plan still decry the project as a woefully missed opportunity. “Given all the money spent, and a can’t-fail general situation, they really have made a disappointing job of it,” says Mark Brearley, professor of cities at London Metropolitan’s Cass school, whose work has long focused on the Lea Valley. “The urban structure has been totally flunked. All that is being achieved is fairly incoherent steroided suburb, with a nice park.”It’s not too late for bold thinking to return, for Sadiq Khan to grasp the nettle and insist the role of city-shaping is taken more seriously. Given the unique position of the LLDC as the sole landowner, planning authority and budget-holder, this is a one-off chance to make this a progressive, inclusive, direction-setting place. Compared to the desolate wastes left by many other Olympics, it might be judged a roaring success, but as a new piece of London we can be proud of, it can still do so much better.