Stolen Edvard Munch artwork recovered after seven years Art theft is ugly. People love to picture art thieves as dashing cat burglars who look like George Clooney and have a raffish charm that makes their crimes forgivable. In reality, they are mostly gangsters and professional criminals who have no feelings at all about the masterpieces they steal to use as collateral in underworld deals or with hopes of secret sales to billionaires. They are boring idiots. It is the art they prey on that is interesting and bohemian.The recovery of yet another stolen picture by the great Norwegian expressionist Edvard Munch is a reminder of just how seedy and unromantic art theft is in the 21st century. Munch’s art is frequently stolen. Historien, a lithograph that he made of one of his murals in the University of Oslo, was probably taken for the value of the artist’s name alone, which is said to give it a value of €250,000.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Armed robbers escaping the Munch Museum in Oslo in August 2004 with The Scream and Madonna. Photograph: APFar more revered works by Munch have been stolen and recovered in recent years, including two versions of his most famously desperate image of all, The Scream. Is the Oslo crime world full of existentialists so haunted by the blood-red skies and isolated wraiths of Munch’s anguished imagination that they are driven to break into museums? The answer is no. After The Scream was stolen from Oslo’s Munch Museum in 2004, and seriously damaged while being stored in a van painted like the Batmobile, I reported on the crime and discovered a sad story of brutal, cynical and heartless theft. The men who raided the museum at gunpoint had to be told where The Scream and Madonna were; they could not recognise these iconic artworks. The painting was done for money alone by criminals involved in drug dealing. At least The Scream could be restored, and it is now as terrifying as ever. The theft of Caravaggio’s Nativity in Palermo in 1969 is more tragic. The mafia stole this great painting and destroyed it. End of story – although that won’t stop conspiracy theorists and fabulists trying to pretend it is still hidden somewhere.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nativity With St Francis and St Lawrence, 1609, by Caravaggio. Photograph: Heritage Images/Getty ImagesWas there ever a time when stylish art thieves stole for love, not greed? The most famous art crime in Victorian Britain was the theft of Gainsborough’s portrait of Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire, from Thomas Agnew & Sons gallery in 1876. The thief turned out to be Adam Worth, nicknamed the “Napoleon of crime” and reputed to be Arthur Conan Doyle’s model for Moriarty. Worth made a tidy profit by selling the picture back to Agnew’s and today it can be seen as Chatsworth House.What does Gainsborough have in common with Munch and Caravaggio? In the 19th century he was an iconic, high-price artist and his portrait of Georgiana was considered especially valuable. Agnew’s had bought it for a high price. Worth was attracted by a famous name and big money. Similarly the mafia took the Nativity just as Caravaggio’s fame and marketability reached new heights. As for Munch, his art has hit staggering auction values in the same era that he has become the favourite of art thieves. The brutality of art theft is the ugly reflection of the legitimate art market: it follows the money. The more absurdly art is priced, the more it is seen as a commodity, the more it attracts the attention of the crime world. Keep your romantic ideas about art theft for pulp fiction. The reality is a dark mirror of the insane liaison of art and money. 