You can just imagine the looks on Warner Bros executives’ faces when JK Rowling presented them with the curate’s egg that is Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them. Yes, she would deliver more stories set in the wizarding world of Harry Potter for a new trilogy of movies. No, there would be no more adventures for Harry himself, nor Ron, nor Hermione (at least on the big screen). Indeed, the new stories would not even be set in the UK, a location that always seemed perfect for Rowling’s very British blend of Blytonesque boarding school whimsy and darkling magical intrigue. The biggest takeaway from last night’s global Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them fan event – more than a dozen cities around the world vying to outscream each other in a satellite-linked outpouring of devotion to a movie no one has seen yet – might just be that the Boy Who Lived was not, after all, the star of the show. Looking around in the auditorium of the plush Cineworld Empire Imax in Leicester Square, it’s apparent that pretty much nobody is dressed up as Potter. But there are witchy flappers – in tribute to the new film’s setting 1920s New York – zillions of Newt Scamanders (Eddie Redmayne’s nerdy, bright-eyed oddball hero and owner of the titular monsters) and even a few dressed up as Jacob Kowalski, the portly “No-Maj” (the American version of the Muggle) played by Dan Fogler.And when the author – and debut screenwriter – suddenly joins Redmayne, pals Katherine Waterston (Porpentina) and Alison Sudol (Queenie) and Fogler on stage, everything comes into focus. Rowling, not Potter, is the star, and she’s built up such a remarkable repository of trust with her fans that they are ready and willing to lap up everything she sends their way. I think they’re probably right to be confident.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eddie Redmayne – AKA Newt Scamander – attends the fan event. Photograph: Ian West/PAThere may have been wobbles along the way – including the rather embarrassing moment when the British author found herself accused of cultural appropriation by a blogger on Native American culture – but Rowling’s attention to detail in the buildup to Fantastic Beasts’ release has gone way beyond Hollywood’s usual standards. Her Pottermore site is filled with original writing on the North American wizarding world, its native beasties, peculiar witchy culture and history of conflict between the magical and non-magical populations. This feeds into belief that Scamander’s story is not merely a money-spinning contrivance for Warner Bros to continue a series that stands behind the Marvel superhero films as the second highest-grossing franchise of all time. Rather, the feeling is that this is a bona fide JK Rowling creation to rival her Potter work, and, crucially, one written directly for the screen.Waterston suggested the writer’s eye for detail ran through every aspect of Fantastic Beasts’ production, even down to the key magical trio’s choice of wands.“They were so genuinely interested in what each of us had to say,” she gushed. “I got an email with five options for a wand. I picked the one I wanted, but it was too light, so they went back, fixed it. I thought, my God, I’ll have a banana split! It’s extremely rare to get that detail in a movie of this scale.”Keeping this focus on the finer points of wizarding aesthetics will be key if Fantastic Beasts is to survive what looks set to be a rapid expansion in scope. Rowling revealed the saga will now stretch to at least five movies – Potter made it to eight, lest we forget – with each instalment likely to see Newt visiting a new major city. The prospect of a glimpse into magical culture around the globe is certainly tantalising, and suggests the new saga may eventually move beyond Rowling’s previous series in terms of scale.The franchise is also due to see the return of a young Albus Dumbledore, and there will be a prominent role in the films for his great rival and one-time friend, Gellert Grindelwald. The latter’s presence looks like it will be clearly felt in Fantastic Beasts, though perhaps as the kind of background threat that Voldemort presented in the early Potter books and movies.“We do mention Dumbledore in this movie, and he features a little bit in a wonderful scene between Colin [Farrell] and Eddie [Redmayne],” teased director David Yates.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Redmayne in Fantastic Beasts. Photograph: Jaap Buitendijk/2016 Warner Bros/PAMeanwhile Farrell, who plays high-ranking auror and director of US magical security Percival Graves, dropped the biggest hint yet that his character might have Death Eater-style prejudice towards the non-magical population. “If there is a superior race, it’s not the No-Majs in his mind,” he said.The event climaxed with attendees being shown the first 10 minutes of the movie itself. It opens with an operatic, Potter-style montage of newspaper headlines, detailing Grindelwald’s attacks in Europe and the growing threat to North America’s magical population from Samantha Morton’s grim-browed Mary Lou and her witch-hating Second Salemers. Scamander himself is barely mentioned, but we’re soon on to the arrival of Redmayne’s charming, eccentric “magizoologist” in New York, looking the very definition of young fogey chic, with briefcase, waistcoat, bow tie and long coat, a touch of Tom Baker-era Doctor Who about him. Suffice to say it’s not long before the beasts are starting to escape – the platypus-like Niffler, with a love for shiny things, is the first to venture out of Newt’s Tardis-like briefcase.Will Rowling really be able to stretch the saga to five movies? Fantastic Beasts’ structural furniture already looks more tricky than that of the Potter films, which simply set up Voldemort’s nemesis for a new adventure in every school year. Surely Scamander won’t lose all his monsters every time he turns up somewhere new? As a creative device that could get pretty old pretty quickly.But in a Hollywood beset by weak sequels, remakes and failing cinematic universes, Rowling’s presence is a comforting one. She cares about these characters, their motivations, their backgrounds, the worlds in which they live. She is unlikely to be told what to do by meddling studio execs, and this time around there are no troublesome books to be adapted, no details to be dispensed with to fit running times, and no deeply green young actors heroically doing their best in almost impossible circumstances.All the indications so far are that Rowling’s fans are probably right to be excited about the prospect of more quirky high adventure in the rapidly expanding Potterverse. The magic might just be back. 