Alan Rusbridger failed to mention (Why we put the climate on the cover, 7 March) that Naomi Klein’s This Changes Everything is subtitled Capitalism v the Climate. Her thesis is that global capitalism, as it demands ever-increasing consumption of goods and services by the world’s population, is the main driver of catastrophic climate change. The agents of capitalism like to believe that consumption will go on for ever, and ignore, and persuade us to ignore, the unpleasant fact that the earth’s resources are not infinite.The sad reality is that so entrenched is capitalism in governments, corporations, banking systems and other global elites, and so dependent on it are “we”, the ordinary working people of this planet, for our lifestyles, comfortable, impoverished or luxurious as they may be, that the chances of getting rid of, or even modifying, capitalism are effectively nil. It’s all about power, and the ability to enforce the status quo. The likelihood is, as Tom Lehrer put it: “We will all go together when we go.”Tony CheneyIpswich, Suffolk• The market cannot solve climate change because there are simply not enough short-term profits in it. The only thing that will change this is a complete turning on its head of global economic priorities to the collective planning of an alternative energy strategy for the planet. This requires public investment on a massive scale. The free marketeers in government, the rich 1% and those running global industries would rather see the planet burn than accept that.Philip RamsellStockport• Many, including me, will agree with Naomi Klien’s views on tackling inequality, but to link this with action on climate change is a fatal error. The conservative right, particularly in the US, will simply see this as further proof that action on climate change is letting in socialism by the back door. The message we need to put across is that whether you are the looniest leftie, the most rightwing capitalist or, like most of us, somewhere between those two extremes, then catastrophic climate change is not in your interest and will be a disaster for your children and grandchildren. Climate change is now so urgent that we have to save the planet first and argue about politics afterwards. All political factions have to work together. Martin WoodBradford on Avon, Wiltshire