In 1937, at the Great Lakes Exposition in Cleveland, Ohio, spectators were able to view the organs of a standing plastic female known as the Camp transparent woman. She was so named after being purchased in Europe, in 1936, by SH Camp who was president of Camp Corsets in Jackson, Michigan; manufacturers of “scientific corsets”. He surmised that this model of a woman, with see-through skin and visible viscera, would be a good promotional tool for women wearing and purchasing corsets to learn about their own anatomy – but in effect she was an anatomical tool for anyone who saw her.Cadavers in pearls: meet the Anatomical Venus In fact, these life-size models went on to be mass-produced on a smaller scale from around 1960, and were known as the visible man and the visible woman. They could be assembled by whoever purchased them and the main difference between the man and the woman is that, of course, there was an extra “pregnancy pack” for the woman so that she could be depicted with foetus in utero.What Camp and the manufacturers of the visible man and woman may not have known is that they were continuing in a long tradition of simulated dissection, first seen in the 18th century with the advent of wax anatomical models. The Anatomical Venus is the most well known (and she too was often depicted with a tiny foetus curled up in her womb), but there were male versions too, and the concept behind them was to present students – and the public – with an idea of their own anatomy without the ethical and sensory difficulties of real cadavers, which were scarce and of course prone to releasing terrible odours and succumbing to decomposition. It was not only wax that was used for these simulacra: earlier versions were carved from wood or ivory, and later on, in around 1827, Louis Auzoux even fashioned incredible anatomical models from papier-mache.Their purpose seems obvious: anatomical models are realistic didactic tools that lack the “unpleasantness” of real decedents. But are they realistic enough? With the advent of “virtual autopsy tables” rather than genuine cadavers in some anatomy labs, and new methods of digital autopsy in place of real yet invasive postmortem examinations, one might think we were going down a very similar road – but the reality is they can only be used in conjunction with real anatomical specimens, particularly when training. After all, if you see a version of Botticelli’s Venus in a book can you say you have really seen it? Is it the same as standing right in front of the original at the Uffizi gallery in Florence? We are leaning towards more open dissections for non-medics, as started by Edinburgh University in March 2015 I began to consider this topic recently, as I worked on a production in which one of the props, a prosthetic cadaver, was created with a slash across the forehead. When I questioned this, I was told: “That’s how you remove the brain at autopsy, isn’t it?” No! No we don’t do that at all – we don’t like to leave our patients with Frankenstein’s monster-style gashes on their faces, sewn or stapled together like Halloween costumes. I had to talk the crew through the whole process, from the importance of the external examination to the fact that it tends to be us, the anatomical pathology technologists (APTs), who eviscerate the deceased and hand the organs over to the pathologist who examines everything in exactly the same order, every time.The APT then carries on with the dissection of the head to allow the pathologist to examine the brain, and ultimately the APT reconstructs the deceased so that no one would realise an autopsy had even been carried out. It’s all done with the utmost respect. Sometimes very small amounts of tissue will need to be retained for toxicological or histological examination, and in those circumstances the pathologist must obtain consent from the coroner (if it’s a coronial postmortem) or the family (if it’s an autopsy specifically being done at their request or for teaching students).As an APT, I often find myself answering questions about the procedure I trained for years to carry out. What do we do with the organs once they’re removed? Is it true the patient is disfigured after a postmortem examination or can they be viewed? Is it really spooky in the mortuary and have I ever seen a ghost?Part of me would like to allow the public to see the procedure for themselves in real life and understand that an autopsy suite is as clean and respectful as an operating theatre. I’d like there to be a transparency about how “death professionals” deal with the dead – whether it’s in funeral homes, postmortem rooms or dissection labs, to see the whole process just as they could see into those dissectible models of old. But the other part of me wonders if, as a culture, many people would ever want to see this. Could the general public, many of whom have had real death so sanitised for so long, bear to watch the evisceration of their deceased loved one? Would it be helpful to view the process, to dispel fear, or would it be a traumatic and horrible multisensory experience?We are leaning towards more open dissections for non-medics, as started by Edinburgh University in March 2015, and I have previously discussed the reasons I feel we need to experience the reality of death rather than the sanitised versions we see in TV crime dramas or are involved in when we play certain computer games.Although some photographers such as Sue Fox and Cathrine Ertmann have attempted to illustrate the reality of the autopsy room, it isn’t the same as being there yourself. As I write my book, Past Mortems (due for 2017 release), and describe the procedures and cases I’ve worked on, I have to be careful how much detail I go into, for reasons of privacy and ethics. Yet I’m trying my best to describe what goes on behind the mortuary doors so that there is more understanding of what can seem like a horrifying procedure to the general public.Do I think that people should be allowed to come in and view autopsies of their deceased loved ones? Do I think perhaps there should be a tick box on a body donation form to state that the deceased is happy for anyone in the general public to see their autopsy carried out? Do I think we should open the mortuary doors and stop hiding what goes on behind them: is it better to keep it a secret or do people actually want to know? My answer is a resounding … I don’t know, but I’d love to know your thoughts.