Google CEO Sundar Pichai has become the latest celebrity to fall prey to hacking group OurMine Security, apparently due to a vulnerability in URL shortening service Bitly.On Monday morning, Pichai tweeted the message: “Hey, it’s OurMine,we are just testing your security, to upgrade your security please visit our website”, and posted a similar statement to his Quora. It was deleted a few minutes later, but it put the CEO in the company of a number of other celebrities who’ve been hacked by the same group in the past few weeks.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg was one of OurMine’s first victims, in early June. His Twitter and Pinterest accounts were hacked, with a tweet sent from the former revealing that his password (apparently “dadada”) was found in a database of user data stolen from LinkedIn in 2011.Since then, the group has hacked others including former Twitter boss Dick Costolo (who had messages posted from his Twitter and Pinterest accounts), young adult novelist Hank Green, Mark Zuckerberg’s sister Randi Zuckerberg, and actor Channing Tatum.One common thread among some – but not all – of the hacks is the presence of link shortening service Bitly. When journalist Matthew Yglesias was hacked on Saturday, for instance, OurMine announced their success with the now standard “testing your security” tweet.Twitter’s API reveals that Yglesias’ tweet was sent through Bitly, a link shortening service that was particularly popular when Twitter counted every character of a URL against its 140-character limit. Many Twitterers, particularly those who have been on the social network for a long time, have given Bitly permission to read and write tweets, and that appears to be backfiring now.As the messages posted to hacked accounts demonstrate, OurMine is keen to build publicity for its hacks. One of the group’s members makes a point of sending a notification about every one via a Twitter direct message, and explained that the Tatum hack, like Yglesias’s, involved Bitly.“We hacked his Bitly and there was his password on gmail, and we hacked his gmail and we checked the saved passwords of his browser and we got his twitter password,” the hacker said. “We have a bit.ly vulnerability.”Bitly deny any vulnerability, though, instead saying that the problem is, again, password reuse. “We are not aware of any Bitly security vulnerabilities,” the company said. “We did identify a very small number of accounts that were accessed directly through compromised credentials. These accounts had user log-in credentials that haven’t been logged into since we forced the strengthening of our password encryption and strength requirements. Additionally, they did not have Two-factor authentication enabled.” “As we continuously update our technology to maintain best security practices and the strongest encryption solutions, we also remind our users to update their passwords frequently, use strong passwords that are more difficult to compromise, do not repeat passwords that have been used on Bitly before or that are shared with any other service and finally to enable Two Factor Authentication,” Bitly added.Bitly hasn’t been involved in every hack, as the group’s attack on Mark Zuckerberg demonstrated. A similar link to Quora has been noted, with Pichai and technologist Anil Dash seeing their accounts hit through that service. The attacks should raise alarm bells for users who have insecure accounts, perhaps because of weak or reused passwords, linked up to crucial social media services such as Facebook and Twitter. Concerned users can deactivate integrations with linked companies in the “apps” subsection of their Twitter and Facebook settings.