We seem to have lost the capacity to live with our differences in peace. The complex lines that divide us are now exposed, and they run deeper than we thought – from what we see as the most pressing issues facing the country, to our values, to our understanding of race, gender and freedom. In her concession speech, Hillary Clinton herself observed: “We are a far more divided society than we realized.”In the Seattle Times, Nicholas Confessore and Nick Corasanti described the electorate as unprecedentedly segregated socially and geographically: “About half of Americans now live near people more politically like them than not, whether in conservative rural towns or sprawling liberal cities. Few Trump supporters report having close friends voting for Mrs Clinton. Many Clinton supporters are more likely to see Trump voters on television than in person.”Republicans and Democrats have always been on opposite sides of political and social fences. What’s new, what might feel insurmountable, is the degree of difference. The gap has widened very quickly over the past two decades. We’ve arrived at perhaps the most difficult moment in recent history: approximately half the electorate have voted into the presidency of the United States an openly bigoted, racist, xenophobic, sexist, sexual predator. Divisiveness personified in an authoritarian leader. In the face of pervasive, violent hatred that has become so visible and so normalized, people are struggling with what to do, how to take action.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Republicans and Democrats have always been on opposite sides of political and social fences. What’s new is thedegree of difference.’ Photograph: Julia RothmanI want to suggest that many actions we can take will be local: talking to the strangers we cross paths with on the streets and sidewalks, in cafes and parks, stores and restaurants. And the more we do this in places that require us to interact with people who aren’t like us, the better.  The more we have contact with people who aren’t like us, the more we are challenged to see them as human People who aren’t like you and who you don’t know exist for you only as categories. Abstractions. People who are different than you who you meet in physical space and talk with – not at – are individuals. The more we can have contact with people who aren’t like us, the more we are challenged, invited, required to see them as humans, as specific individuals with a context. Hate breeds on seeing people as categories and abstractions. When I say contact, I mean contact in person. Researchers at MIT found that our interactions in physical space with peers have a much more significant effect on our beliefs and opinions than any other relationships, and more than our online lives. Physical interactions, researcher Alex Pentland wrote in Nautilus, “are much better at changing opinions than digital media and … offer a greater chance of reaching consensus.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Our interactions in physical space with peers have a much more significant effect on our beliefs and opinions than any other relationships.’ Photograph: Julia RothmanSociologists, policymakers and urban planners have long studied and supported an idea called the contact hypothesis, which, at its most fundamental, says that increased positive contact with people who aren’t like you decreases prejudice. Researchers recently turned their attention to the negative interactions catalogued in contact hypothesis studies and found that a significant factor had been overlooked. A negative interaction carries far more emotional weight than a positive one and tends to increase prejudice. It takes so much goodness between people to overcome negative experiences. Nothing about what is going on right now supports the idea that anyone should give anyone else the benefit of the doubt, and I don’t advocate empathizing with tormentors and bigots. But every time I nod or say hello to a stranger in the past few days and they return it, I know some human decency remains.In our smallest positive interactions with strangers in passing, we experience something called “fleeting intimacy”. That’s a brief encounter that gives us a momentary feeling of connectedness, of belonging. I think we need to start using our interactions with strangers to create what I’ll call fleeting alliances. We need to do the things that make for mutual acknowledgement of our fundamental humanity – the smiles and hellos and brief conversations in which we recognize a stranger as a person. We also need to recognize a new dimension to these moments. We can show each other we are not filled with hate. We can show we are allies and we will protect each other.Kio Stark is the author of When Strangers Meet.