Critics often accuse world leaders of being able to focus on no more than one problem at once. So with the economic crisis, and the eurozone's problems in particular, dominating recent G20 discussions, what are the chances of progress on climate change at this week's leaders' summit in Cannes?The economic crisis has done little to sharpen the pressure for action to tackle climate change. Banking collapses, austerity programmes and social unrest have for the most part knocked climate change from newspaper front pages. But it is not far-fetched to suggest that the G20's response to the financial crisis could also help the fight against climate change.Action cannot be put off until the economic storm has passed. As Sir Nicholas Stern's report pointed out, unchecked climate change could reduce global output by up to 20%. This would dwarf our current troubles – European output, for example, fell by 4.3% in 2009 but recovered 1.9% last year.The poor countries most vulnerable to the floods, droughts, storms and other extreme weather associated with climate change need help now. The current famine in the Horn of Africa, where at least three-quarters of a million people are at risk of starvation, and the flooding across south Asia affecting more than 18 million people are just two examples of the sort of humanitarian emergencies already becoming more common.It is rich countries whose emissions are overwhelmingly responsible for climate change. They have promised $100bn annually to help poor countries cope and to reduce their own emissions. But the fund agreed last year in Cancún has yet to be activated and no deal has been done to scale-up finance to those levels.Developing countries want those resources to come from developed countries' national budgets. Certainly, national budget contributions must lay the foundation of the $100bn, but in the current fiscal climate the temptation to simply relabel old promises of development aid may be too great for finance ministers to resist. Climate change is a new crisis demanding new resources, not old wine in new bottles.Equally, it is not and should not be up to the G20 alone to come up with a climate deal – that needs to happen in UN negotiations where poor countries have a seat at the table. But there is a real chance that the G20, with the help of Bill Gates, could break the deadlock. His report on innovative financing for development, to be presented to leaders in Cannes, will propose two ways developed countries can raise the new revenues needed.The first is a charge on the unregulated, high and rising carbon emissions from shipping and aviation. Both sectors must play their part in the fight against climate change, but in the near term, there is a particular opportunity for progress on pricing the emissions from ships – already responsible for more carbon pollution each year than Germany.Oxfam and WWF have calculated that a moderate carbon price of $25 per tonne would generate $25bn per year by 2020, while raising the cost of global trade by less than $2 for every $1,000 traded.To ensure poor countries are not unfairly hit, some revenue should be used to compensate them for the marginally higher import costs that may result. Of the rest, at least $10bn per year could go to the new Green Climate Fund. A shipping carbon charge would strengthen the case for similar measures on aviation.A joint statement by the finance ministers of France and South Africa last month named shipping and aviation taxes as one of the building blocks of a potential deal when UN negotiations resume in Durban this month. The statement also set out the two countries' "strong support" for the other opportunity presented by Gates's report: financial transaction taxes (FTTs).Dubbed Robin Hood taxes by campaigners, these involve a tiny levy on transactions of banks, hedge funds and other financial institutions. The taxes would raise tens or even hundreds of billions of dollars a year. As well as fighting climate change in poor countries, revenue could also help the tens of millions of people worldwide pushed into extreme poverty by the economic crisis, and to protect the services and safety nets on which many poor people in developed and developing countries rely.In addition to France and South Africa, FTTs are publicly backed by Germany, Spain, the European commission, Argentina and a number of countries outside the G20. Although opposition from the US in particular makes global agreement unlikely, that should not prevent progress.In his role as chair of this year's G20, President Nicolas Sarkozy has pledged to create a coalition of willing countries to press ahead with FTTs and raise funds for fighting climate change and for development. A thousand economists – including Nobel prize-winners – have written to G20 leaders urging them to be a part of this initiative. Some form of FTTs already exist in a number of the world financial centres, including the UK, US, Hong Kong and Switzerland.The IMF has warned the G20 that as a result of its exemption from value-added taxes, "the financial sector may be under-taxed and hence perhaps too big". If this is true, then increasing taxes on the sector would help to rebalance the global economy and encourage future growth.The political case for action is also strong. Polls show people want politicians to rein in banks' bonus culture and make the financial sector pay its fair share and contribute to cleaning up the economic crisis it helped to cause. The spread of Occupy Wall Street type protests around the world shows the anger that is bubbling under the surface.G20 leaders in Cannes have the opportunity to address their people's concerns, help poor countries caught in a crisis they did nothing to cause, and take timely steps to address the coming climate crisis. It is a chance that must not pass them by.