Three and a half years ago, after some predictably wearying experience at a gig – I forget what, but something must have roused my ire – I wrote a 10-point guide to gig etiquette. It was aimed at gig-goers, but events this week suggest the people on the other side of the lights need some advice, too. Which is why I’m updating the etiquette guide, for venues and performers. Feel free to add your own suggestions in the comments. Perhaps we can change the world together.A guide to gig etiquette 1. Bands: don’t assault your fansLast week, the band the Story So Far reached their widest audience yet. Not by virtue of their music, but because their singer, Parker Cannon, decided that the best way to express his displeasure at a female fan getting on stage to take a selfie was to launch himself into a flying kick into her back, sending her tumbling into the crowd. There are shows where the friction between band and audience adds to the event, where the sense of tension is palpable and thrilling. But generating an atmosphere is one thing; launching an attack on someone who has paid to see your show is another. Cannon might try remembering what Fugazi – who couldn’t stand stagedivers – would do to those who tried to share the spotlight with them. They would surround the miscreant, and force them offstage through unwanted intimacy, in the process preventing them injuring others through stagediving.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 2. Bands: don’t be lateSome gig-goers are at the point of life when there’s little more appealing than a band starting at 7.30pm in a seated venue. But not everyone feels that way; some people like staying out late and getting the last train home. All but the most dedicated midnight vultures, however, do like to get that last train home. Being kept waiting doesn’t make the audience feel excited, it makes them feel like you don’t give a toss. Maybe you don’t – but remember who’s buying the tickets, eh? So don’t delay coming on stage until the vibe is right, like Axl Rose does. His former bandmate Richard Fortus explained that Rose has “to get into the right place within himself” before he goes on stage, which is why he might be up to three hours late. My advice? Start the whole getting-into-the-right-place process three hours earlier.3. Bands: acknowledge your audienceThere are some performers who hold an audience spellbound with their intensity and silence. But there aren’t many. Everyone else? You can bloody well talk to us. You don’t have to be a raconteur like Bruce Springsteen or Billy Bragg. But you need more than “Hello, Cleethorpes” – especially if you’re in Mansfield. Saying the same thing every night can become an essential ritual, like Bruce Dickinson’s “Scream for me [insert city name here]!”, but otherwise please try not to repeat yourself. There are fans who go to lots of shows on any given tour, and you don’t want to reveal yourself to be an automaton.4. Bands: don’t sell your tickets to the secondary marketI was shocked a few weeks ago when a major promoter, in casual conversation, made reference to a particular act being one of the few major artists who does not allow tickets to go straight to ticket-resale sites. My shock wasn’t that it happens, nor that this act didn’t allow it to happen, but at the clear suggestion that huge numbers of major artists do. If you are charging a face price of £100 or so for someone to sit 60 or 70 yards away from the stage in a stadium, you are grossing quite enough for it to be absolutely immoral for you to even consider siphoning tickets off to be sold for several times that face price. Ditto super-expensive side-of-stage enclosures, front-of-stage enclosures and so on. If there are people willing to pay three times the price to have a private bar with free nuts and warm lager in the bowels of the stadium – fine, rinse them. But let the people who love you best, the ones who camp outside the gig, be the ones who get to the front. (Apart from, obviously, when you’re giving VIP wristbands to journalists.)5. Bands: play the hitsAt any given gig, 2% of the audience don’t want to hear any hits. They want to hear the radio-session arrangement of the B-side of the unreleased single. Everyone else wants to hear your most famous songs. Not necessarily all of them – everyone knows you have a new album to promote (and, to be frank, they’re going to need a toilet break at some point anyway) – but enough to make them feel like they went to see your show and heard the songs you’re famous for. You might be sick of your most famous number after playing it 225 nights a year for the past 22 years, but your audience has not heard it played live 225 nights a year for the past 22 years. It’s something special for them, so grant them that indulgence.6. Venues: tell your security they’re present to help the crowd      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Here to help … your friendly venue bouncer. Photograph: AlamyThe big blokes with the radios aren’t there to conduct police operations. They’re there to make us – the people who’ve paid for the tickets, pay for the drinks and therefore pay their wages – feel safer. So why, so often, do security guards give every impression that their life would be a whole lot better if we weren’t there? Venue managers, please remind them that they should be facilitating our enjoyment, not suppressing it.7. Venues: hire enough bar staffVenues know roughly how many people are going to be at a show. If it’s sold out in advance, they know exactly how many people are coming. So why, at so many gigs, is it so hard to get a drink? Is it beyond the wit of venues to ensure that all bars are adequately staffed? The result might even be more bar sales, simply because you can sell more drinks to more people. Or maybe they think that, once we’re in, we can’t do what we do in a pub where we can’t get served and go elsewhere, so more fool us.8. Venues: have a booking office and sell tickets in advanceMost of us buy our tickets online these days. Partly because it’s convenient, but often because it’s the only way. So we get charged booking fees, handling fees, offered ticket insurance, charged p&p, and the cost rises. Here’s a novel idea from the past: venues should sell tickets directly, with no hidden charges, to people who turn up with cash. Pub venues could sell tickets from behind the bar in advance. Who knows, the person buying might even stay for a drink. You can still do this at theatres. What makes venues so very different, apart from the unholy alliance of venue owners, promoters and ticket agencies?9. Venues: if you double-book a night, make sure your planning is top-notchThe venue that has two events running consecutively on the same night is asking for trouble. I recall a show at Koko in London one Friday night, where ticket holders had not been warned it was an early start owing to a club night taking place afterwards. Which meant a good chunk of the crowd arrived a good half-hour or more into the show. At the end of the gig, the clubbers were let in as the gig-goers were departing, leading to a rather tense struggle in the narrow exit corridor. At another pub venue, I recall an early gig overrunning, with the result that the band I’d come to see didn’t get on till 90 minutes after the scheduled time, and could only play 20 minutes. It’s your venue: if you’re going to wring every drop of revenue out of it, make sure you’re not doing so at the expense of punters.10. Venues: don’t oversell, and make sure the promoter doesn’tIt’s you who’ll get blamed if people with tickets are turned away; it’s you who’ll get blamed if the people inside feel as if they’re one more person away from a panic attack; it’s you who’ll get blamed if the number of people causes some to get injured in a crush. And yet still it happens. As Henry Rollins put it: “I have never experienced anything like walking out on to the stage of an oversold venue and, before the first note is struck, realising that there is not going to be enough oxygen for all of us.” Being in a full venue is exciting; being in an oversold one is uncomfortable at best, and terrifying at worst.