Growing up in the 1980s as a tediously well-behaved and highly conformist child, I loved Erma Bombeck’s books. I often used my allowance to increase my mother’s modest collection of her writings. Reading comedy about kids while still one yourself can offer a fascinating bridge between the two solitudes of parent and child, the latter solitude generally being notable for its solipsism.Bombeck’s description of motherhood did not mirror my own home life. My mother left the house every day to go to a job, while my father was the homemaker. Yet it never seemed to interfere with my enjoyment of Bombeck’s suburban stay-at-home-mom jokes. Rereading Bombeck now, as a mother of two myself, I see the flinty edges beneath the smiles but also now know why so many women who owned no other humor books, and were in bed long before Don Pardo introduced the cast of Saturday Night Live, bought everything she wrote.My mother before Mother's Day: readers' pictures and stories Bombeck was inarguably one of the most successful and widely read female humorists of the 20th century. By the time her career reached its peak in the mid-1980s, her syndicated column, At Wit’s End, ran three times a week in 900 newspapers across North America. Every book she wrote was a bestseller. Motherhood was her beat and she was very, very funny.Bombeck’s appeal was deliberately middle-brow. Her columns could (and can, though yellowed) be found gracing refrigerator doors across the nation, next to Dear Abby clippings and grocery lists. The most enduring, sadly, is probably one of her least representative. A soppy contribution to the national pastime of deifying the work of raising kids, When God Created Mothers was a giant hit: “Can it think?”“Not only can it think, but it can reason and compromise,” said the Creator.Finally, the angel bent over and ran her finger across the cheek.“There’s a leak,” she pronounced. “I told You that You were trying to put too much into this model.”“It’s not a leak,” said the Lord, “It’s a tear.”It’s unfortunate that Bombeck’s rare bouts of excessive sentimentality have had more staying power than what writer Lyz Lenz calls her “dark absurdity”. Had Nora Ephron been a suburban stay-at-home mother instead of a NYC-to-DC journalist and film-maker, her work might have looked remarkably like Bombeck’s. They shared the conviction that “everything is copy” and each was an expert at making the joke their own, and thus exorcising the sadness or frustration underlying it.For Bombeck, the great cosmic joke was motherhood, and suburban motherhood in particular. She and her husband Bill moved to Centerville, Ohio in 1959, buying a home in a tract housing development she would mine brilliantly for material in her 1976 classic, The Grass Is Always Greener Over the Septic Tank. We are so used, now, to critiques of suburbia that reading Bombeck’s more curious, anthropological take on it seems like dropping through time. Her materials are carpooling, drive-through-everything, lost clarinet reeds, children who clamor for a pet and then never look after it, dirty ovens, gently bumbling husbands who drift through the house opening cabinets and never closing them, etc.This may seem pedestrian stuff, but Bombeck’s voice is so fresh, so sharp and so eerily acute that there are moments that her work compares to that of Ira Levin, that great chronicler of suburban loneliness and alienation, or Shirley Jackson. She also wrote keenly about being an adoptive mother, about feeling unattractive, about empty-nesting and, more rarely, about sex. (She certainly wrote more frequently about meat loaf.) Depression is there, too (this is from a portion of Septic Tank called “Loneliness”): No one talked about it a lot, but everyone knew what it was.It was the day you alphabetized your spices on the spice rack.Then you dressed all the naked dolls in the house and arranged them on the bed according to size.You talked to your plants and they fell asleep on you.It was a condition, and it came with the territory.I tried to explain it to my neighbor, Helen.“I’m depressed, Helen,” I said, “and I think I know what it is. (Excuse me.) ‘Lonnie! I see you sneaking out of the house with my mixer and I know what you are going to do with it. Put it back!’”“More coffee?” asked Helen.Bombeck made magic out of Tupperware parties and comparing diet tips, bored to tears. She spun gold from the hay of misplaced socks (she may have invented the joke about laundry machines eating one of every pair, as old-hat as it now sounds) and over-starched shirts. Almost literal gold, in fact: her $3-a-pop columns, begun in 1959, had given way to million-dollar book advances by 1978.Bombeck’s meteoric rise in the 1960s and 1970s (her two failed forays into television were rare missteps) paralleled, if never quite intersected with, the “women’s lib” movement. Once her children were grown, her activism in support of the ERA – a proposed equal gender rights amendment to the constitution which had been kicking around since the 1920s and was eventually defeated largely due to conservative Phyllis Schlafly’s vehement opposition – ruffled some feathers, but her earlier writing had primarily addressed the unfairness of the status of women (particularly mothers) in American society with laughter.Bombeck was not much for pointing fingers at the structural causes of societal unfairness. Her work and presumed audience was also unflaggingly white and middle-class, even as she hopped up the income rungs year by year. It was better for business as well, of course, but Bombeck was a fundamentally honest humorist, and it seems to a careful reader that laughing at the tedium and mess and ingratitude assailing mid-century homemakers was her activism, in its own way.In her 1993 book, A Marriage Made in Heaven or Too Tired For an Affair, Bombeck speaks about having attended a talk by Betty Friedan many decades earlier, hoping to break up the tedium of her week, and hearing Friedan detail the dull, dreary chaos of the life she and her friends were leading. Bombeck expected Friedan’s story to pivot into humor, and was horrified when none was forthcoming. It had to be funny, for Bombeck; it had to be her joke, or it wasn’t endurable.On Mother's Day and every day, I'm grateful to all who help raise my child | Amy Whipple It was a note she would hit again in an uncharacteristically dark moment in Motherhood: The Second Oldest Profession. Bombeck ran, in full, a letter she had received from prison in 1982 from a woman who had, unthinkably (though never unthinkably for a writer as generous and sharp as Bombeck), killed her child. The woman wrote of having discovered Bombeck’s writing and thought that perhaps her life might have been so different if she had known that she could joke about the dirty dishes and the unmade beds and the particular screech that a baby can make just as you feel yourself undone by your day.It was Friedan’s talk, however, that made Bombeck decide to march down to her local paper and start writing those $3 columns. It had to be funny, but it also had to be done. Motherhood, when stared in the face, was funny, could be funny, needed to be. What she would have made of the proliferation of parenting bloggers and competitive lunchbox Instagramming, who can say? Her life was her material, as were the lives of her children, who adored her, and in their youth paid little attention to her work. (Her son Matt once described her as “a syndicated communist” when asked what she did.)Bombeck, who suffered for decades from health woes, including breast cancer and the polycystic kidney disease that eventually took her life, rarely allowed that aspect of her identity to bleed into her writing, although she wrote a book about children with cancer and made light of her daily dialysis to friends and family. Perhaps it’s fine, after all, that the sweetness of her writing, even its periodic over-sweetness, has endured as long as her wit. Motherhood, to Bombeck, probably did seem like a gift, coming as it did to her slightly later in life, and via both adoption and childbearing. She wanted what she had, her work says, and she always knew it was funny. 