Nearly nine in 10 households would have to spend more than £5,000 to make their homes more energy efficient before they could be eligible for solar panel subsidies under new rules announced this week.Under changes announced on Monday, the solar feed-in tariff (Fit) will be tied to the government's "green deal" loan scheme, that aims to make homes more energy efficient.But 86% of the UK's homes do not meet the 'C' energy rating standard that properties will need to qualify for the feed-in tariff, according to research by the office of shadow energy minister, Caroline Flint.Bringing those homes up to standard through insulation and heating improvements would "in most cases" cost up to £5,600, according to the Department of Energy and Climate Change (Decc). The Renewable Energy Association believes the true cost would be higher, at around £7,000.Flint said: "These figures prove that the government is going to kill off solar power as a popular energy saving measure available to the many and make it the preserve of a wealthy few. First they halved the tariff, then they add this energy rating hurdle putting the Fit beyond the reach of 86% of homes."Homeowners should theoretically recoup the £5,600 – paid in repayments as part of the green deal – through energy bill savings, and will not need to foot the upfront cost. Anyone installing solar panels after 1 April 2012 will need to green their home to the 'C' standard, with those installing before 31 March 2013 getting 12 months' grace to install the measures. The green deal is due to come into effect in November 2012.The news came as reports arrived of several solar projects already having been cancelled due to the feed-in tariff cuts, announced by Greg Barker on Monday.In a letter to the Guardian, published on Tuesday, the RSPB wrote: "[Our] own solar programme, which would have seen solar car parks and roofs at 22 of our nature reserves, has been cancelled and the considerable time, effort and money we have put into the project has been lost."Alan Sharpe, the RSPB's director of finance, noted that it was not objecting to the cuts in principle, but "the lack of clarity and the opaque decision-making".As a result of the cuts, Norfolk council has scaled back plans to install solar panels on schools, libraries, fire stations and other buildings owned by the authority and intends to set up a wholly council owned energy company. Adrian Ramsay, the Green party's deputy leader and former councillor of Norwich council, said: "The project is a good example what the previous scheme enabled and what might become threatened. Although it won't be completely cancelled, thanks to the 50% cut the council has to review it."Other projects have been cancelled outright. "We are having to withdraw our planned share offer for 15 solar PV systems on roofs of community buildings following government's announcement," said Anne Chapman from Morecambe Bay Community Renewables.Craig Jackson from South Yorkshire Housing Association said: "The government has talked of a 4.5% return – but our financing costs alone are 4.75%. These changes mean our Power Roofs scheme now won't even break even for us. We have no generous benefactors – we have had to raise this finance ourselves. This has completely decimated our programme of fitting solar panels to social housing in South Yorkshire. In one stroke, the government has managed to kill off £1m of PV installations that won't happen as a result of this."In a letter to the prime minister, 50 signatories including MPs, NGOs, industry stakeholders and landlords, urged him to "revisit the spending constraints". They wrote: "At a time of great economic uncertainty, Fit installations are one of the very few things that social landlords can do to support their tenants. However, the proposed level of these reductions will, quite simply, render new projects financially unviable. For the vast majority of social landlords, the risks of projects will be too big and the return on investment too small.""Too sudden, too drastic," said Paul Westcar, a homeowner in Reading. "We were close to choosing a company, after having looked for a couple of weeks. In December, new solar panels will come on the market, they are supposed to be more efficient. That is the first problem, we can't take them because of the time pressure."Some installers are already seeing increased orders on their books, as people rush to meet Decc's proposed date for changes in six weeks' time. Westcar said: "Our favourite company already said 'no way', now we are in negotiations with another one. If we miss the deadline, the installation will be uneconomic for me."Friends of the Earth's energy campaigner Donna Hume said: "The government has cast a dark shadow over our thriving solar industry and effectively pulled the plug on countless clean energy projects across the country."If we want to wean the nation off increasingly expensive fossil fuels and free ourselves from the shackles of the 'big six' energy firms, the government must encourage more households and communities to generate their own home-grown electricity – not slash solar incentives."