Last month, Anohni (formerly Antony and the Johnsons) became the first transgendered artist to be nominated for an Oscar - a benchmark moment organisers felt was important enough to warrant a mention on their trivia page, but not a live appearance: “I want to be clear — I know that I wasn’t excluded from the performance directly because I am transgendered,” said Anonhi in an open letter, entitled ‘Why I am not attending the Academy Awards’. “I was not invited to perform because I am relatively unknown in the US, singing a song about ecocide, and that might not sell advertising space.”It’s true: despite decades of warnings from top scientists, ecocide remains an unfashionable issue, thanks in no small part to intensive lobbying and spin from agribusiness, biotech corporations and carbon barons, who use art world patronage to create an illusion of benevolence.Musicians across genres and generations are calling time on this lie, from Neil Young’s furious Monsanto Years album and Greenpeace’s striking Requiem for Arctic Ice to THEEsatisfaction’s lush, eco-conscious odyssey, EarthEE. “We want to start a conversation about climate change,” the Sub Pop duo told the Guardian last year. “Because it’s a real issue, a problem many try to avoid.” Hopelessness, Anohni’s forthcoming album, is a stunning response to this inaction, joining journalist Rebecca Solnit’s call to label climate change “extreme, horrific, long-term, widespread violence”. The songs are sublime in their movement, devastating in their truth-telling – war, surveillance, American imperialism, the slow murder of the Earth and its inhabitants not just by men with machines, but by all of us who are complicit in the planet’s devastation. It is, to quote Elizabeth Barrett Browning, a curse from the depths of womanhood: “salt, and bitter, and good” – a sonic extension of Anohni’s work in the Future Feminists collective.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Fear and rage are powerful tools for change, but delight and pleasure are equally formidable. These things are in abundance on THEEsatisfaction’s limber, Afrofuturist poetry (on the aforementioned EarthEE, or their debut, AwE NaturalE, and their catalogue of mixtapes) – heady, rich, semi-mystical music that traces symbiotic lines between earth and body, music and mind, lineage and land.Brooklyn-based rapper Junglepussy has a similar, pesticide-free MO on her excellent second album, Pregnant with Success, a record ripe with carefree confidence, black love and green metaphors – witty, salacious and earthy in equal measure. In JP’s world, merch is a line of organic beverages (Junglepussy Juice), self-love is paramount (“I seen you eating Mickey D’s, knew you ain’t love yourself / I’m up in Trader Joes, shopping cart full of health”) and would-be lovers are advised to woo her not with popping bottles (“that’s not impressive”) but freshly picked fruit. It makes sense that artists like Junglepussy, Anohni and THEEsatisfaction are at the forefront of green music, since it’s marginal communities – oppressed, poor, BAME, “other” – who are, and will continue to be, the first and worst affected by ecocide, while the 1% holiday in the sun. Ask the black, working-class people of Flint, Michigan, who are forced to drink and bathe in lead-contaminated water; the victims of developing countries devastated by the droughts and famines that follow extreme weather; the many indigenous peoples across the globe fighting oil spills and pipelines, land grabs and deforestation.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Junglepussy: organic rap. Photograph: Johnny Nunez/WireImageAnd yet, as Anohni points out, identity politics in this “tipping point” era are increasingly used against us by big business as smokescreens to distract us from a culture of wealth extraction: They are going to try to convince us that they have our best interests at heart by waving flags for identity politics and fake moral issues. But don’t forget that many of these [award show] celebrities are the trophies of billionaire corporations whose only intention it is to manipulate you into giving them your consent and the last of your money. They have been paid to do a little tap dance to occupy you while Rome burns.Hopelessness works because it articulates the despair so many of us feel on our worst days – that we’re all doomed, that the world is past saving, that we’re all to blame. But it also speaks to defiance and refusal, joining a growing resistance that is starting to take root across the globe: in Sudha Kheterpal’s SPARK technology, in Björk’s tireless activist-art, in the healing, pleasure-filled rhythms and melodies of THEEsatisfaction and Junglepussy.