I grew up loving Schumann the man as well as Schumann the composer. I still remember where I was when I first came across a volume of his letters (No 42 Ladbroke Grove, in west London, to be precise). The beauty of his character shone through every word he wrote. Later, I came across his Advice for Young Musicians, written as a companion to his famous piano pieces for children, Album for the Young. I loved the Advice, too; but it seemed dated. Coming back to it more recently, however, I realised that only the language is old-fashioned; the advice itself is as valuable as ever – it just needs some interpretation for today’s musicians and music lovers:Facing the music: Steven Isserlis From a pound of iron, which costs virtually nothing, a thousand watch-springs can be made, which are worth a fortune. That pound, which you have received from the Lord – use it faithfully.Schumann doesn’t start with this nugget – but I feel it’s a good place to begin. Is any child born unmusical? I think not. Every infant, given the chance, will enjoy fun rhythms and catchy tunes, almost from birth; that’s why we have nursery rhymes. From then on, though, each child’s relationship with music will develop in a unique way. Alas, only a small proportion will get a chance to study it properly – such a pity, when the benefits of a musical education are so well documented. And of those who have the chance to study music, only a few will choose to make it their profession. But that’s fine – we need many more listeners than performers!As to the pound of iron that we’ve been handed: there’s no denying that the Lord has endowed some people with more natural musical aptitude than others; but that’s no reason for the less talented ones to be discouraged. In fact, talent can be a danger; all too many young musicians abuse their gifts, rather than “using them faithfully”. For some of them, it can all feel just too easy, with the result that they get lazy, and end up being superficial performers. Those who have to work harder can often develop more interestingly. As for those who feel that they really have no talent for playing or singing – don’t give up! The more you engage with music, on whatever level, the better you will understand it; and the more you understand, the more you will get out of it. Hopefully, your studies will give you a love for music that will enrich your whole life. If not, it’s probably because you’ve been taught badly. If you have decided you hate music because your piano teacher rapped you on the knuckles when you played a wrong note, then I’d say: give music another chance! It’s not Beethoven’s fault that your teacher was an old sourpuss. Nor yours – and you’re the one who’ll miss out if you cut music out of your life.The object of art is not to acquire wealth. Become a great artist, and other things will come.  Yours is not the only instrument: remember that choral music with orchestra is the most sublime musicRobert Schumann Ah, so true – though few of us object to riches, if truth be told. But if earning a lot of money is your principal aim as a classical musician, then you’re in the wrong profession. The same goes for applause: it’s lovely, and I don’t know of any musician who does not enjoy an enthusiastic reception (even if they pretend not to), but it must not be the main goal. An honest approach to music may not whip an audience into a frenzy of delight; it may leave them in thoughtful mode. But people with musical sensitivity will feel your sincerity and be moved by it; and moving people is more important than impressing them.Love your instrument, but do not be vain enough to consider it the greatest and only one. Remember that there are others as fine as yours. Remember also that singers exist, and that choral music with orchestra is the most sublime music. Come, come – now he’s going a bit far. Obviously the cello is the greatest instrument. It’s so true about choral music, though – think of Bach’s Passions or Beethoven’s Missa Solemnis: music doesn’t get any better than that.Practise scales and other finger exercises diligently; but that alone is not enough. There are many people who think they can obtain great results in this way, and who spend many hours in such mechanical labour every day, right into old age. That is the equivalent of trying to pronounce the alphabet faster every day! You can employ your time more usefully. Yes: the bad news is that one really does have to do some scales and exercises every day, just to discipline the fingers (or voice); but the good news is that they really shouldn’t take too long – they are merely a means to a far more enjoyable end. We always have to know why we’re doing them.Some people are tempted to think that if they’re suffering in their practice, they must be doing themselves good; but that’s a dangerous fallacy. I think of the scale and exercise routine with which I start each practice day as cleaning my cellistic teeth; I quite enjoy it, in fact – partly because it only takes about 10 minutes. My fingers become reacquainted with the cello and the bow; and then I’m ready to start my real, creative work. Some people have gained a certain facility, I suppose, from endless scales and studies, but that’s not the same as acquiring a great technique. Technical command allows us to play the music we’re performing without having to think about the difficulties; it gives us the freedom to listen to ourselves. The point of scales and exercises, ultimately, is to help our fingers/voices acquire the precision they need in order to produce the interpretation we hear in our heads/hearts.Play always as if in the presence of a master. There is a lot behind this simple sentence. How would practising in the presence of a master affect our work? Well, for a start, we wouldn’t drift off and dream of other things as we played; or stop every five minutes to check email, or whatever. There is no point in practising without concentration, without a specific aim in mind; playing through a piece badly several times will do far more harm than good – it will merely reinforce bad habits, and make them harder to expunge.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A bow to Schumann … Steven Isserlis. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianAssuming that the anonymous master hasn’t time to sit there listening to us practise, however, we have to become our own masters, asking ourselves why we are repeating a passage, what was wrong with it before, and what it is that we are aiming to improve. The good thing about this is that if we don’t just repeat aimlessly, but focus on what needs to be done, then we are likely to finish our practice far quicker; and we can go away and deal with those dreams and messages …If your music comes from your heart and soul, and if you feel it inside yourself, it will affect others in the same way. Yes: if your music comes from deep inside you, it will speak to a deep place in others. But it’s not just heart and soul – your mind needs to be engaged too; all three should work together (in concert, as it were) in order for you either to create music or to recreate the works you interpret. There is no contradiction between thinking and feeling; it’s all part of understanding.Perhaps genius alone understands genius fully. Oh dear. That’s bad news. Oh well – the rest of us can but do our best …From fact to fantasie: discovering the real Schumann There is no end to learning.So true. Well, until one takes one’s last breath, I suppose. But even after that, perhaps we arrive at the next world, thinking, with some relief, that we have reached the end of learning. There the great composers will be, though, waiting for us, scores in hand. “You misunderstood this!” “Why did you change that note?” And so on – a slightly worrying thought.And a couple of my own bits of advice: Don’t overestimate the importance of beauty for its own sake. Many people can make a more-or-less beautiful sound; but truth is what we should be seeking, with beauty almost as a by-product. It’s the same as speech: very nice if you have a good speaking voice – but it’s what you say that matters. Similarly, beware of becoming a “projection junkie”: your audience has to hear your performance clearly, of course, but don’t play as loudly as possible at all times. If an actor were to stride on stage and yell “To be or not to be” at the top of his voice, no doubt people would hear every word; but they would miss the meaning.And for composers: Don’t think that in order to be profound you have always to be dark and depressing. True, terrible things happen in our world, and the music of our time is likely to reflect that in some way. But terrible things have always happened – as I write this book, in fact. Although these times are undoubtedly scary, much of the world is in better condition than it was a hundred years ago. And nature is still beautiful: sunsets are as stunning as ever, mountains are still awe-inspiring and the sea is still wild. Of course, write as you feel, and try to move beyond mere entertainment (unless that’s all you’re aiming for); but don’t think you are being superficial if your works fail to cast their listeners down into a pit of gloom. Fauré felt that the ultimate purpose of music – of all art, in fact, but particularly music – was “to lift us as far as possible above what is”. Perhaps he was right. And if we interpreters are servants to the composer, it’s also true that most, if not all, great composers felt that they too were serving a higher force.• Robert Schumann’s Advice to Young Musicians Revisited by Steven Isserlis is published by Faber.