I made a batch of chilli last night. Two, actually. One went into a very sleek and impressive slow cooker that Cuisinart sent me, the other into a brightly patterned, spongy bean bag of an oven called a Wonderbag. After six hours, both gave me a rich, smooth stew, and though the slow cooker's was probably richer and smoother, the Wonderbag's was more impressive for a number of reasons."Eco cooking that's changing lives," they call it. I honestly can't remember when I last felt this positive about a recent addition to the kitchen. The principle is: you start your cooking on the stove, get everything hot then stick the whole pan in the Wonderbag, which is well insulated and will allow the food to continue cooking for up to 12 hours. Rice takes about an hour; I reckon lamb shanks would need two or three.A South African entrepreneur named Sarah Collins, whose background is in social development, created the Wonderbag a couple of years ago for the townships of Durban. Many of the people who live there spend up to a third of their income on fuel, usually paraffin, or a large proportion of their time gathering solid fuel in the form of wood or dung. When burned these release toxic smoke that fugs houses and poisons lungs; the environmental journalist Geoffrey Lean says that 2m people, mainly women and children, are killed every year by these fumes.Collins calculates that a family of four using the Wonderbag two or three times a week will save $80 a year on fuel. (Zimbabwe, for example, has a GDP per capita of $471.) 150,000 Wonderbags have been sold since they launched two years ago, saving 50,000 tonnes of carbon. Following a successful promotion which saw a Wonderbag given away free with the purchase of three boxes of its curry powder, Unilever recently ordered another 5m bags. Cumulatively these should save 8m tonnes of carbon over the next five years – enough for 1.5m flights around the world. There are a couple of things I don't like about the Wonderbag. It's filled with recycled polystyrene balls, which won't biodegrade. (The company hopes to change the filling to a biodegradable polyurethane.) The idea is not especially original – it's the same principle as the haybox, of course – and it's good to retain a degree of scepticism when big business vocally endorses anything, even if the intended outcome is to free up income to allow people to buy more of the company's products. The bags sell for R170, a little over £14 or $22, in South Africa, and are available at a vastly reduced price to people there living in poverty. Over here they're going to cost £30, which seems rather a lot, though I suppose you'd make the money back pretty quickly. But the essential details of the Wonderbag are commendable whether you live in a slum or a mansion.