Volga Linen bib apron  A tip from Cook fave Jeremy Lee, these are aprons to make you stand up straight and cook like a legend. Available in many hues, though the Chinese yellow is where it’s at for us. volgalinen.co.uk, £49EXP Multi Tone mug The priciest items on our list are actual artworks. Peter Shire has been making these playful, sculptural ceramics since the 1970s, but they are absolutely having a moment right now. momosanshop.com, £62Cuisinart Mini Prep Pro food processorNot a day goes by without Cook needing to use one of these. And its diminutive size means having it out won’t clutter up your counter. cuisinart.co.uk, £40      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hay scissors, Crane pan, Muji sieve, Kana fruit bowl.Brass scissors by Hay Solid and pleasingly simple, these are as easy on the fingers as they are on the eyes. hauslondon.com, £9Crane cookware As sturdy as Le Creuset – and burnproof, to boot. A minimalist cook’s dream. cranecookware.com; frying pan £85, casserole £135Muji stainless steel sieve and bowlThe sieve doubles up as a colander and fits its bowl snugly; you can use a couple at a time without handle clash. Stashed away, they take up no more space than a stack of bowls. muji.eu; sieve £12.95, bowl £6.95Kana Basic White bowls Comfortingly rustic to the touch and visually subtle – vessels to make your food shine bright. kanalondon.com, £16-£40      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Books by Fuchsia Dunlop, Felicity Cloake and Meera Sodha.Land of Fish and Rice, Fuchsia Dunlop Another tome to travel with; Dunlop’s prose is as masterful as her Chinese: unbeatably authentic. Bloomsbury, £26The A-Z of Eating, Felicity Cloake An adventurous cooking primer from the person who’s perfected the recipe for just about everything. Fig Tree, £25Fresh India, Meera Sodha Sodha’s second book confirmed what we sensed from the first: her’s is the tastiest, liveliest, spice-infused fare this side of the Sabamarti river. Extra points for the vegetarian focus. Fig Tree, £20      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Weck jars, Paul Hollywood dough cutter, Shino Takeda spoons.Weck jarsExactly what any budding preserver needs: glass lids so nothing rusts, wide mouths for easy filling, and shapes for all purposes. twentytwentyone.com, £4.50-£6Paul Hollywood stainless steel dough cutter Perfect for cutting dough, yes, but also for measuring slices, scraping surfaces, gathering choppings … its uses are legion, and its price is just right. johnlewis.com, £6.99Shino Takeda spoonsEach little work of art is a tiny stub of a spoon (and a surprisingly useful thing). We don’t just want one. We want them all, in a row. momosanshop.com, £14-£24      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Books by Magnus Nilsson, Oliver Rowe, Rosie Birkett and Jessica Koslow.The Nordic Cook Book, Magnus Nilsson Not so much a cookbook as an encyclopedia of tastes from a part of the world you instantly – from page one – want to travel the length and breadth of. Phaidon, £29.95Food for All Seasons, Oliver Rowe A beautifully illustrated personal memoir of a year of eating good platefuls. To shelve alongside Nigel Slater’s Kitchen Diaries. Faber & Faber, £20East London Food, Rosie Birkett A snapshot of an exhilaratingly alive part of London’s food scene. Nuno Mendes lovingly wrote the intro. We delightedly put it on our shelf. Hoxton Mini Press, £28Everything I Want to Eat, Jessica KoslowRecipes from Sqirl, the LA hotspot that everyone seems to want to go to – don’t miss the ricotta toast and the sorrel pesto rice bowl. Abrams, £21.99