What’s the most ridiculous thing that has happened to you at a festival?Rossi: We were working a festival in Scandinavia once, and this guy with long, blond curly hair came up to us, and he was covered in blood. He said: “I’ve killed my friend,” and the organisers said: “Yeah, wait a minute, mate, we’ve just got to get the band on.” I’ve got no idea what happened to the bloke. (Score: 1)Ghostpoet: A stage invasion. Is that ridiculous? It was my stage that got invaded. I think it was when I did Leeds. I just let it happen. It was a really mad gig. (Score: 0)What’s the strangest outfit you’ve ever worn to a festival?Rossi: Denim – that was as weird as we ever got. When we started, you couldn’t wear it anywhere – you’d get asked to leave a restaurant. So it was like: “Wow, these guys are wild! They’re wearing denim!” (0)Ghostpoet: I wouldn’t say I’ve worn an outfit. I just wear black all the time and that’s pretty much it. I’ve always said I would dress up, but I just haven’t. (0)Have you ever had a spiritual experience at a festival?Rossi: No. The buzz of playing music is fabulous, but I’d be bullshitting if I said it felt spiritual. (0)Ghostpoet: No, but there have been moments where I’ve played live and it’s almost like I’ve let go completely and I’m just one with the music. (1)What’s the longest you’ve ever gone without sleep at a festival?Rossi: I don’t know. Couple of days, I suppose? That’s a young person’s thing: look how long I can stay up! (1)Ghostpoet: No more than 24 hours. Probably one of the first festivals I went to, possibly Glastonbury. I wanted to see as much as possible. (0)Have you ever been injured at a festival?Rossi: I’ve fallen off stage at a few places, but not particularly at festivals. (0)Ghostpoet: No, touch wood. I had to cancel a gig from illness once. But never injured. (0)Who’s the strangest person you’ve ever got talking to at a festival?Rossi: There was a festival we did in America once, and I remember being sat next to this extremely large woman – and I don’t mean tall, I mean in every which way. She was the nicest woman I’d ever met – I must have sat three or four hours with her. I felt perhaps that was a learning curve for me. I can still see her face. I knew I’d never see her, ever again. It was strange for me, because I don’t like large people. (0)Ghostpoet: I was at a festival in Germany, and I was at the bar trying to get a drink. To the right of me, an American voice said: “Ah, is that Jimi Hendrix on your arm?” and I turned around and it was Flea, from Red Hot Chili Peppers, with exactly the same tattoo on his arm, pointing it out to me. So I got chatting to Flea, chatting about Jimi Hendrix and our matching Jimi tattoos. He’s a funny man. A really, really cool guy. Slightly kooky, but not strange. (1)Have you ever seen a riot at a festival?Rossi: Yeah, a few. Once in Yugoslavia, years ago, these people charged the stage and the police beat the shit out of them. It’s not nice. (1)Ghostpoet: No. I’ve seen people being riotous but no riot behaviour, no. (0)ResultsRossi: 3 points – enough to take the crown, thanks to a riot and a (suspected) murder.Ghostpoet: 2 points – surprisingly close. But a chat with Flea isn’t quite enough.Status Quo play the Isle of Wight festival and others. Ghostpoet plays British Summer Time and others.