First came the alpha mums, who made everything look easy. Followed by the tiger mums, who made everything their kids did look easy. And now the FML Mums have had enough. Fed up of striving for perfection, they live to look relatable: the more difficult their day, the better they appear for triumphing amid the chaos.The trend for mothers to make themselves look bad took on a new twist this month with the pilot of a BBC sitcom co-written by Sharon Horgan. The first episode of Motherland, starring Anna Maxwell Martin, revolves around an inept attempt to cadge some free childcare and the self-anaesthetising power of wine. Elsewhere, a new book, Hurrah for Gin, by mother turned blogger Katie Kirby, “for perfectly imperfect parents”, is predicted to become a Christmas bestseller after it arrives in the shops next week.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sarah Turner, AKA The Unmumsy Mum. Photograph: courtesy Sarah TurnerKirby, 36, is following in the footsteps of Sarah Turner, better known as The Unmumsy Mum, which is the title of her blog and hit book. A sequel, The Unmumsy Mum Diary, is out in February, just in time for Mother’s Day. Kirby’s amusing stick drawings of a mum coping with “hellidays” and parenting on a permanent hangover are phenomenally popular: her Facebook posts invariably get shared more than 500,000 times.Blogs such as Kirby’s and Turner’s, and others such as Peter and Jane, Brummy Mummy, and Eeh Bah Mum seemed to have emerged in backlash against the cult of perfection plastered across social media. Then there are the Scummy Mummies: Helen Thorn and Ellie Gibson have a fortnightly podcast about motherhood’s less glamorous aspects. The duo are so popular they performed a live show this summer in London and at Camp Bestival in Dorset.Kirby thinks her fans are bored of seeing photographic perfection on their social media timelines and want something different. “It just seems as if everyone is having a perfect time so perhaps people are getting a bit sick of that.” Susanna Scott, who runs the BritMums bloggers’ social network, says: “Parent bloggers are self-deprecating because, face it, it takes a lot to get through the day with toddlers in tow sometimes. You just have to laugh at yourself.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Motherland … slummy mummy TV. Photograph: -/BBC/Delightful Pictures/MermanRos Coward, the author of Speaking Personally, a book about the rise of subjective and confessional journalism, detects an “underlying smugness” in what she dubs “faux self-deprecation”, adding: “There is this sense of, ‘Look at me! Look at me! With my glass of sauvignon and four gorgeous children running wild!’ It’s entertainment but just occasionally it can be as irritating as the alternative. Instead of smug/perfect, what’s coming across is smug/hopelessness. Even the self-deprecating blogs can be quite undermining to anyone looking in. And it can be problematic for people who are having real problems or who have no family.”Even Turner, 29, whose first book topped the bestseller lists, worries that if mothers only celebrate failures or “the reason why we’re crap mums, what does that say about someone who really enjoys some of the activities that perhaps mums like me struggle to do? I’m not very crafty, and rubbish at baking, but I’d hate for that to be at the expense of someone who loves crafting and baking.” She also feels bad if she has inadvertently helped to create a culture where mums are worried about sharing the good things. “New mums apologise for baby-spamming their Facebook timeline! Mums almost think people will only be interested in something if they’ve had a rubbish time.”And Susie Verrill, 28, who straddles a middle ground, writing about her two-year-old son at My Milo and Me, says she hasn’t got time for blogs where mums are “frequently negative about their offspring”. She adds: “I think tone is important, as is balance. I don’t put frills on my life and/or my questionable parenting skills but I think it’s refreshing to chat the happy stuff too. You can still be sarcastic without being biting. You need to be wise to how it makes your audience feel.”Gill Sims, 38, the force behind Peter and Jane (@peterandjaneandmummytoo on Facebook), says the “Mummy with a wineglass” blogs are easy to dismiss as “attention-seeking or flippant, but they also serve a serious role. The wineglass thing allows other parents to relax and open up in a non-threatening setting, as was illustrated when I posted about postnatal depression: so many women felt able to share their experiences, and reassure each other.”As for why mums aren’t just getting on with parenting instead of self-obsessing online, Turner has a poignant story about a message from a grandmother who said she found motherhood “so miserable because she was told to just get on with it that she got in touch to tell me she found my writing so liberating. She said, ‘In my day, we didn’t share how we were feeling and it has burdened me all my life.’”Perhaps the truth is that motherhood is neither the filtered smugness that Instagram depicts nor the gin-soaked alternative. “What happened to the Winnicottian concept of being a good-enough parent?” asks Coward, referring to the paediatrician and psychoanalyst Donald Winnicott whose catchphrase was the “good-enough mother”. Coward adds: “We could do with a bit more of that.”