Honorable Mr. Tagore,My sincere greetings to you, although I have never met you before.When I was a schoolboy decades ago, you were such a celebrity in China; your poems were collected in our textbooks and exam papers and you were always appreciated – and translated – by the literati in the Republic of China. Over the years the number of people who read books has decreased, while disrespect towards creatives has increased. Being a poet is more like a joke than a vocation, and, as a result, your popularity has diminished.However, your name once again became a ‘meme’ – an internet phenomenon – over Christmas in 2015, almost six months after the publication of my translated version of your book, Stray Birds. An article criticising my use of Chinese in the translation was published, and not knowing how the author derived his conclusions, and what kind of Chinese literature he enjoyed, I simply smiled.Three days later, someone forwarded me another article accusing me of turning you into Jingming Guo, a young Chinese writer well known for vulgarity and enormous box office sales. I still didn’t take it seriously. Jingming, myself and you are so different; the person who wrote it could not have possibly read us all. Several days later, the furore escalated: there were strong opinions on both sides, from “Feng Tang is the best candidate for translation prize with stunning Stray Birds” to “As soon as Feng Tang begins translating, Tagore will burst into tears”. Some articles were unbelievably hostile: “India wants to hang Feng Tang right away”. An envoy sent by the Indian media, met me for coffee, trying to figure out what was happening.I decided I’d better write to you.Before July 2014, my day job in medical care dominated my life: there were more books than I could read, so I had to hurry up; there were more things than I could deal with, so I had to catch up; there were more people than I could meet, so I had to pick up my pace. I resigned that July and flew to California: I felt I needed to learn how to slow down, to live in quietness and I thought I’d find peace in translation.The reasons why I chose to translate Stray Birds are simple: your books are my childhood favourites, Stray Birds is short in length but deep in thought, and you were the first Asian to win the Nobel prize in literature.The three months I spent on translating Stray Birds was the most glorious period in my life. I rented a house near the Napa Valley; shabby, but with a large yard. The fruits were vigorous, the flowers were luxurious, and the wind chimes danced as gusts of wind blew past. During that time, I drained 100 bottles of wine and translated 326 poems into around 8000 Chinese characters. Some days I only translated a few words because of careful weighing of the language. “The monk pushed the door under the moon”, or “The monk knocked the door under the moon”: which one is better? After deliberation, I would drink, and throw myself into a state of trance, watching the daylight fading away from my wine glass. My heart felt filled with poetry.Rabindranath Tagore was a global phenomenon, so why is he so neglected? | Ian Jack After I translated Stray Birds, my impression of you changed a lot. You are not as severe as you seemed to be in previous translations. In fact, there hides a powerful oriental wisdom deep in your heart: “I thank thee that I am none of the wheels of power but I am one with the living creatures that are crushed by it.” Stray Birds, which you began to write in your fifties, is not a book for children; they could by no means understand all the pain in these poems. Without all my life experiences, I couldn’t have understood lines like: “The woodcutter‘s axe begged for its handle from the tree. The tree gave it.” You adored more of women than I had imagined: “I cannot tell why this heart languishes in silence. It is for small needs it never asks, or knows or remembers.” You are able to see the miraculous in everything in the world: “Your voice, my friend, wanders in my heart, like the muffled sound of the sea among these listening pines.”The criticisms against my translation accuse me of three sins.First sin: I falsified your original meaning. There is no place for me to say who or which living creature can interpret your original meaning perfectly. What I wanted to seek was the freedom to interpret your poems in my own way and the freedom to have my interpretation expressed in translation. The Bangla version of Stray Birds even differs from the English version, which was translated by yourself: which one conforms to your original meaning?Second sin: I tarnished your purity and innocence. The criticism which has drowned me focused on only three phrases (five characters in Chinese) in three of my translated poems – out of a total of 326. They are: kudang (crotch), tingsao (a word with multiple meanings, which could possibly mean being coquettish) and da (an emotional particle often used by young people). I don’t want to argue whether these three phrases are racy. What I want to preserve is my freedom to use and even create my own system of Chinese language. What I did is what every writer tries to do: I used my own vocabulary system, and for me these three phrases mean “as pure as a virgin”, “a bright moon” and “a fresh breeze”, respectively.Third sin: I tried to use you to hype myself up. I abhor conspiracy theories but I abhor thinking evil of other people. Life is very short, no matter if you think the best or worst of people. But, I still wish to live my life with the former, which brings us happiness.After intense criticism, my translation of Stray Birds was removed from shelves. But, dawn will break, even when all roosters are killed. I do not think we will see my version of Stray Birds for a long time to come, however.When I think of you, who are now in the faraway heaven, “you smiled and talked to me of nothing.”Yours sincerely,Feng Tang