Wild Combination, LondonThis new fixture in underground clubbing opens not so much with a bang as an echoing clatter, its lineup jittering with psychedelic energy. The headliner is Nidia Minaj, a Portuguese producer who only just celebrated her 19th birthday, but who already has a series of astounding tracks to her name on the Principe label. Her Danger EP last year was full of African-Latin rhythms with one leg dragging behind them, while her newest material heads into deep house territory. In support is DEBONAIR, the NTS Radio selector who has the snobbery deficit of the best cratediggers, switching between Balearic prog, deep house and experimental electronics with eyelids unbatted. Finally, there’s Reckonwrong, whose EP on Whities last year was a frazzled blend of Beefheart skronk and cosmic dance. The night’s organisers have links with bleeding-edge publications such as Truants and the Wire, so keep an eye on out for further mind expansion.The Victoria, E8, FriBBGolden Cabinet, ShipleyGolden Cabinet, increasingly known for a risk-taking booking policy and memorable emblem of a urinating horse, has become an unlikely magnet in the otherwise unremarkable town of Shipley, at least for those seeking ear-splitting sonic transcendence. Its first party of 2016 features a potentially speaker-ripping live set from Shapednoise, an Italian based in Berlin, whose physical, propulsive and somewhat fear-inducing brand of something approaching techno is a staple of labels such as Opal Tapes and Hospital. Offering equally gritty support, Blood Music promises “percussive annihilation”. Meanwhile, celebrated synthesis artist Joanne looks to provide something a little lighter in tone, but no less intriguing. The Leeds-based artist utilises live code development to control and subvert hardware instruments, composing beautiful noises from error and uncertainty. Local ale and vegan cakes are available, and the event ends just in time for the last trains back to Leeds and Bradford. Now that’s clubbing.Kirkgate Centre, FriJTOptimo (Espacio), EdinburghProviding slight relief from the occasional bombast of techno, some of Neil Landstrumm’s brilliantly tongue-in-cheek track titles include I Paid 5 Pound To Come In And I Want To Hear Rihanna, inspired by a persistent booth invader in Edinburgh; and Cheeseburgers (With Beltram), a nod to a trip to a New York diner with the Energy Flash producer. It’s an attitude that extends into the music itself, too: last year he performed alongside Karenn (AKA Blawan and Pariah) for a monstrously glorious Boiler Room live set, bringing beaming grins and licks of sleazy edge to the duo’s perfectly chiselled slabs of techno. Here he joins JD Twitch and JG Wilkes, who’ll be headlining as Optimo.Summerhall, FriSCOvation, LondonOval Space’s reliable live series continues with a pair of sets across the road in the Pickle Factory that rip techno’s sunglasses off and expose the quivering anxiety underneath. Alex Smoke headlines with a performance of material from his new album on R&S, Love Over Will, where he further drifts from his minimal techno past into tremulous electropop, though still with a stern backbeat. In support are the Sprawl, a supergroup made up of Shapednoise and grime producers Mumdance and Logos. Expect a bludgeoning but cleansing blast of cyberpunk digi-noise.The Pickle Factory, E2, ThuBBIdris Elba, SouthamptonSouthampton raves aren’t often visited by Hollywood celebrities, but Stringer Bell, John Luther, or whatever you know DJ Driis as, is serious about this. His music passion predated his high-profile TV and film roles, from hanging out in New York City in the 1990s to his current preoccupation with the catchy, shuffling sound of grime and UK house basslines. Elba was quoted by London’s Evening Standard in 2013 as saying that he and his crew used to encourage ladies to remove their footwear at parties. “Why? Because I like feet.”Switch, SatGT