The timing of London Collections Men SS17 was a perfect storm of pageantry, politics and patriotism. It opened the day before the Queen celebrated her 90th birthday, the first match of Euro 2016 and a day after the televised referendum debate. Designers took note, with Brexit and ideas of Britishness emerging as a key theme of the collections.Fashion has had an uneasy relationship with political statements. From Katharine Hamnett’s politicised sloganeering (such as the Choose Life T-shirts) to Chanel’s SS15, possibly ironic, feminist protest-themed show, which celebrated womanhood through “He for She” placards, accessories, and the song I’m Every Woman. Statements made in the isolation of the catwalk or on a T-shirt can feel oblique.At LCM, the EU referendum was tackled with both explicit and subtle references. Culture secretary Ed Vaizey (whose brief includes fashion) did the latter in his opening-day speech. “This is an industry that creates jobs,” he told a crowd that included David Gandy; “(it’s) a Remain event.” To highlight the point, Remain posters designed by photographer Wolfgang Tillmans were displayed in the reception of the British Fashion Council, where many of the shows were taking place. For Tillmans (whose father is English and mother is French), this visual protest was to protect against the “enemies of freedom”. The British Fashion Council later released the stats of a survey polling 290 UK designer businesses. Ninety per cent said they would vote to remain with only 4.3% voting to leave.But, while the political message from the fashion world was clear, the corresponding catwalk aesthetic wasn’t so straightforward. While some shows embraced the European project, others embraced Britishness.Designer Christopher Raeburn’s astronomy-themed show featured pieces such as a white hoodie and a blue jacket, with the word “In” printed proudly on a pocket or repeated in between space-themed logos. Patrick Grant, the designer behind the E Tautz label, shared Raeburn’s sentiments. He took his bow in a Hamnett-like “In” T-shirt (as did Sibling’s Sid Bryan and Cozette McCreery). Both the theme of the E Tautz collection (“inspired by the heroes of European lower league football”) and recognition of the different nationalities of the creative team and models (who came from “at least eight European countries”) felt pointed. Confusingly, Grant’s collection – with its pinstripe, single-breasted jacket and pleated navy trousers (very Simon Le Bon posing on a boat) – felt more the type of thing a young Boris Johnson might have worn at a Bullingdon summer party.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Patrick Grant at the end of the E Tautz show, London Collections Men, SS17. Photograph: ReX/ShutterstockMeanwhile, Gordon Richardson, Topman’s design director, admitted that his whole collection was inspired by questions of whether to remain or leave. “The kernel of the idea came about when the discussions about Europe were beginning,” he said backstage. His collection was a love letter to Britishness across the ages. It was everywhere you looked: historical symbols of Britain’s past were woven in Topman’s modern interpretations of smart/casual beachwear; beaded red Tudor roses appeared twice, on a green towelling one-piece and as a shoulder patch on a tri-tone hoodie. Meanwhile, a Richard I-inspired lion bust emerged on a Nudie suit. There was also a celebration of slightly seedy seaside hedonism – models with a sweaty, sunburnt look wore sweatshirts emblazoned with “Margate” and “Dirty Weekend”. Britain, the collection seemed to imply, was enough as it was. Was that the position that Only Fools and Horses’ Del Boy would take? It was a question posed by designers Agi & Sam, whose collection featured the much-loved character’s face on a T-shirt.Meanwhile, the collection of Fashion East’s Charles Jeffrey (AKA Loverboy) was all about railing against those who have supported Brexit. Days before his show, Jeffrey had posted Tillmans’ poster on Instagram. “If people like Vladimir Putin, Nigel Farage, George Galloway, Marine Le Pen and Isis want Britain to leave the EU, where does that leave you?” it asked. Accordingly, Jeffrey’s collection was a prayer to anti-authoritarian chic and the flipside of Topman Design’s lads-on-the-razz aesthetic. Featuring models who looked as if they’d been cast on the street dolefully sporting corsets, chain-mail chokers and Marcel waves in their hair, it was a gender-fluid show that recalled misfit time capsules such as the Blitz club and anti-establishment narratives such as Derek Jarman’s Jubilee. Then, just to make things really clear, the final moments of the collection featured the bong, bong, bong of Big Ben’s chiming bell. PEFour moments to remember at London Collections MenA$AP Rocky at J.W.Anderson      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A$AP Rocky in ‘teddy bear’ jacket and purple plaid jacket at the JW Anderson show. Photograph: Christian Vierig/Getty ImagesThe news that rapper A$AP Rocky would be collaborating with London designer J.W.Anderson broke days before LCM began. So, it was a pretty sure thing that the rapper would attend the designer’s show on Sunday. Still, when he turned wearing the collection’s “teddy bear” jacket, layered with a purple plaid jacket, there was a collective swoon.Grace Wales Bonner’s collection      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Grace Wales Bonner at London Collections Men SS17. Photograph: WWD/Rex/ShutterstockThe debut solo catwalk show of 25-year-old Wales Bonner was the hot ticket of LCM and it lived up to the hype. In a salon in Knightsbridge, male and female models wore embroidered capes, wide hats, earrings and PVC macs. Style watchers also clocked Wales Bonner’s own look: a smart cream blouse, tailored trousers and backless mules with socks. A good bow look? That’s halfway to becoming a successful designer.Haters Direct at Christopher Shannon      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Haters Direct’ at Christopher Shannon, London Collections Men, SS17. Photograph: WWD/REX/ShutterstockThe ripples from Mike Ashley’s moment in Parliament made their way on to the catwalk at Christopher Shannon. Towards the end of his sportswear-themed show, four models appeared with reworked Sports Direct logos on T-shirts, sweatshirts and the boxy reusable bags seen at the store. Instead of “sports”, though, the logos read “Lovers Direct” or “Haters Direct”. Whichever one you go for, it’s safe to say Ashley would not approve.Puppets at Aitor Throup      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Puppeteers perform with a puppet model at the Aitor Throup show. Photograph: Neil Hall/ReutersAn Aitor Throup show is never going to be a straightforward affair. He has made kits for England, based designs on Jean Charles de Menezes, the Brazilian shot dead after a case of mistaken identity and had a moment as a creative director of Kasabian. His return to fashion’s schedule came with a typically conceptual bent. Called The Rite of Spring/Summer/Autumn/Winter, the performance featured a puppet operated by actors in white masks. The puppet eventually exploded and came back to life. The whole models-walking-down-a-catwalk-in-clothes thing looked positively normcore by comparison. LC