We are delighted to announce the children’s books categories of the Indie Bookshop Week awards 2016.First up, a round of applause for Philip Reeve and Sarah McIntyre whose book Pugs of the Frozen North (published by OUP) won the Children’s category. Their thrilling, funny and highly illustrated book on Shen and Sika’s race to the top of the world with the help of 66 pugs, beat off literary giants including Patrick Ness, Chris Riddell and Cressida Cowell (full shortlist here). Discover the Independent Bookshop Week book award shortlists The duo said they were “thrilled” to win: “We’d like to thank all the independent bookshops, who have been amazingly supportive in hosting our events, displaying our book and recommending it to customers. Even comic book shops have stocked Pugs just because they love illustrated books; it’s been incredible. Huge thanks to the judges and everyone who took part in organising the award. And we’d also like to thank the team at OUP, and the 66 pugs who dragged the sleds of our imaginations all the way to the North Pole.”How to draw… pugs The Children’s Picture Book category of the Independent Bookshop Week award has been seized by Emily MacKenzie with Stanley The Amazing Knitting Cat. Her book tells the story of the delightful Stanley, who loves knitting so much he even does it in his sleep. But when Stanley gets carried away with his dream of winning the Woolly Wonders Competition, he has to decide what’s more important - his knitting or his friends?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Emily MacKenzie in her studio, we can see she loves knitting almost as much as Stanley does! Photograph: Diana PappasEmily MacKenzie told us: “I’m completely thrilled to have won this award for Stanley the Amazing Knitting Cat, a book that celebrates friendship, creativity and individuality – all the things I believe are at the heart of great independent bookshops! Cosy and welcoming, I love that independent bookshops give you a glimpse into the personality and passions of the booksellers behind them. It means a great deal that Stanley the Amazing Knitting Cat is nestled in so many wonderful shops, waiting to be discovered by new readers!”How to draw… a woolly wonder! If reading this news has made you feel creative, we have drawing lessons by both winners: do see Emily MacKenzie’s a How to draw a woolly wonder and Sarah McIntyre and Philip Reeve’s How to draw pugs. Independent bookshop week starts tomorrow 18 June and runs until 25 June 2016, so why not pay a visit to your local bookshop? For more inspiration on the best books to buy there and where to buy them, look out for the wonderful children’s books supplement that comes free with the Guardian tomorrow (Saturday 18 June 2016), it’s full of recommendations by independent booksellers and produced by the Children’s Publishers Group of the Publishers Associations. 