Who doesn’t love the idea of a picnic? Now that I am a grown up with a proper job and council tax bills, I like to imagine my summers filled with healthy adult activities: civilised lunch spreads in the park with hampers and blankets, chilled drinks and good food. A recent reunion with old mates laid this fond image to waste. Our evening started with the best of intentions: preparations made for the following day’s outing: the focaccia was baked, the vegetable skewers good to go. The drinks started flowing. I woke up at some point around lunchtime the following day, my head splitting, mouth dry and stomach rolling. For most of my 20s, I didn’t get hangovers. How things have changed. My day was spent shuffling between the kitchen (for water) and bed, those picnic plans in tatters.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rural idyll: the traditional British picnic. Photograph: Niels van Gijn/Getty Images/AWL Images RMThe British summer being what it is, I probably only have a handful of chances left for that idyllic picnic before the autumn damp sets in. This time I will be a bit more wary of alcohol before packing my hamper. For picnic food, I tend to avoid meat. With the freedom to nibble over the course of an afternoon rather than eating everything in one go, food can end up out in the sun for a few hours. A coolbox can help keep things fresh to a degree, but I would rather avoid dealing with anxieties over potentially spoiled meat. That tarragon-infused roast chicken might have seemed irresistible when it was fresh from the oven, but after a few hours gently fermenting in the afternoon sunshine, it won’t be quite as appealing. It’s easier to stick with all the delicious fruit and veg that is around now.As a regular meat eater – albeit one who is trying to cut down – I try to cook vegetarian food that works as a decent substitute to all of that protein and fills me up. Aubergines have been a godsend. As a child I couldn’t stand their slimy, greasy texture when fried but now I love them grilled or roasted. In a simple salad with bulgur wheat and peppers they make the perfect accompaniment to my filo, halloumi and kale mini pies. And to wash it all down there is nothing more refreshing than an icy glass of watermelon strawberry smoothie. If only I’d had a glass for that hangover, maybe I would have made it to the park.Halloumi and kale pies      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Parcelled up: Tamal Ray’s halloumi and kale pies. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the Guardian(Makes 12)175g kale, washed, chopped, stems discarded250g halloumi2 handfuls of rocket, finely chopped1 tsp ground black pepper1 tsp kashmiri chili powder1 large onion, diced2 cloves garlic, crushed2 tbsp vegetable oil2 large eggs4 heaped tbsp Greek-style natural yoghurt2 tbsp tahiniJuice of half a lemon50g butter1 pack (12 sheets) of filo pastrySteam the kale until softened (about five minutes) and then add it to the rocket.Slice the halloumi to just over 1cm-thick pieces and brown in a frying pan on a medium heat for a couple of minutes on each side. Chop into 1.5cm square pieces and add to the greens.Fry the onion in the oil with the pepper, chilli and crushed garlic.Mix together the yoghurt, tahini, eggs and lemon juice and then combine with the onions, halloumi and kale.Lay out the sheets of filo on top of each other and cut lengthways down the middle to give two long rectangles. Cut each of these into thirds along the width so you have six piles of filo squares.Melt the butter in a microwave then use a pastry brush to grease the insides of a 12-hole muffin tin. Lay a square of filo in one of the holes, brush with a little butter and then repeat with three more layers of pastry.Add the filling to reach the top of the hole and fold over the edges of the pastry into the middle, leaving a gap for steam to escape. Repeat with the remaining 11.Give the tops of the pies a brush with a little more of the butter then bake in a preheated oven at 180C fan/gas mark 6 for 20 minutes, turning the tray around halfway to ensure even browning.Roasted aubergine and red pepper salad      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tamal Ray’s roast aubergine salad. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the Guardian(Serves 4)2 large aubergines1 tsp ground black pepperTable salt100g bulgur wheat100g walnuts2 roasted red peppers (preserved in oil)2 preserved lemons1 bunch of corianderJuice of 1 fresh lemonJuice of 1 clementine1 tbsp honey½ tsp salt½ tsp kashmiri chili powder½ tsp cumin3 tbsp olive oilSlice the aubergines lengthways into four or five slices and lay on a roasting tray. Cover with olive oil and a sprinkling of salt and black pepper and roast at 200C/gas mark 6 for five minutes, then turn over for another five minutes on the other side. Once cool, chop the aubergines into chunks about an inch across.Toast the walnuts at 180C fan/gas mark 6 for eight minutes then roughly chop once cool.Pour boiling water on to the bulgur wheat then cover and simmer for about 15 minutes until softened. Drain off the excess water and leave to cool.Chop the red peppers and finely chop the preserved lemons and coriander.Mix together the fruit juice with the salt, spices, honey, oil and bulgur wheat, then add to the coriander, aubergines, peppers and nuts.Watermelon smoothie      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Refreshing and delicious: Tamal Ray with his watermelon smoothie. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianAdding a handful of cashew nuts to this smoothie will give a creamier, richer flavour but it’s still delicious without. Make sure all the fruit has been in the fridge before you start and is as cold as possible.300g watermelon100g strawberries1 orange, pulp onlyA handful of cashew nuts (optional)4 ice cubesCombine the ingredients and blitz in a blender until smooth. Pour into a thermos flask if you’re travelling, so you can enjoy it icy cold.