Of all the various indignities laden upon Bridget Jones – the unfaithful fuckwit boyfriends, the nosy Smug Marrieds, the blue soup – none has been as frustrating to witness as the trajectory of her reputation. Leaving aside the film franchise, each proving the rule of diminishing returns, Helen Fielding’s perfect novel, which celebrated its 20th anniversary this week, has, in its afterlife, suffered a double-pronged attack more demeaning than Bridget being harangued about her lovelife over a turkey curry buffet.It is as true as it is a truism to say that books written by women about women are generally seen as niche fluff while those written by men about men are big manly literature. So Jay McInerney, say, can write about obnoxious Manhattan people and his books will be celebrated as literary events. But Fielding, at least McInerney’s equal as a social satirist, writes a book about an English woman and it is treated by critics as an indulgence for the ladies, one they can’t ignore due to its enormous success, but not something that needs to be taken seriously. This isn’t limited to books, of course. As Emily Nussbaum wrote on Bridget’s contemporary, Sex And The City, “while The Sopranos has ascended to TV’s Mt Olympus, the reputation of Sex And The City has shrunk and faded... The assumption that anything stylised (or formulaic, or pleasurable, or funny, or feminine, or explicit about sex rather than about violence, or made collaboratively) must be inferior.” Emphasis on the feminine, I’d argue.But critical disdain is no surprise. Far more disheartening for me is to hear young women dismiss the book. Bridget Jones’s Diary is probably my favourite book, equalled only by Nora Ephron’s novel about divorce, Heartburn, which has been similarly dismissed over the years as semi-autobiographical froth (as Ephron wrote in 2004, “I’ve noticed that over the years the words ‘thinly disguised’ are applied mostly to books written by women... I managed to convert an event that seemed to me hideously tragic at the time to a comedy – and if that’s not fiction I don’t know what is.”) Yet when I recommend it to women in their teens and 20s the response is generally a look that says, “Yeah, alright, grandma, welcome to the 21st century.” The reason why has been articulated in thousands of blogs and columns by young female writers, expressing bewilderment at Bridget’s repeated desire for marriage and her calorie counting. “I don’t think like this and therefore I don’t like this,” is the general conclusion.It is true that Bridget and her neuroses are out of step with today. No one would accuse her of being woke. But the idea that you have to think like the heroine in order to enjoy the novel is a tad limiting. Most women today don’t think like Tess of the d’Urbervilles, but I’d still recommend giving that book a spin. It feels faintly akin to the Rhodes Must Fall hoo-ha from last year and other similar protests which argue, essentially, that if an artist or piece of art does not accord with modern values it has no value at all.Don't like Hillary Clinton? You need to watch Parks And Recreation If young women feel they need to be like Bridget to get the book, it is most likely because older women have told them precisely that. “I literally was Bridget!”, they cry, just as they once were literally Carrie Bradshaw, or Lizzy Bennet, or whatever self-infantilising humblebrag of a literary comparison they find. Sure, it’s nice to feel you have a literary alter ego. But the idea that you need to find one in order to enjoy a piece of art is one I only ever hear in relation to women. After all, not a man on this earth has ever said, “God, I am sooooo not Bertie Wooster. He presents a really terrible view of men. Bog off, Wodehouse!”People always rebel against the generation immediately before, which is why Bridget Jones is considered embarrassingly retro but Jane Austen is apparently totally relatable. When I bought the book when I was 18 I didn’t relate to Bridget at all. But I immediately loved it because it took me out of the anxious, virginal, generally terrified of everything teenager I was and made me laugh. It took me out of myself, in other words, and it still does. Because when I read a novel, I want a story, not a mirror. To paraphrase Ephron, if that isn’t proof of a good book, I don’t know what is.