When you’re Buffon you can totally wear mismatched glovesThe Italian goalkeeper is not only a supersave expert, he also does a great line in celebratory screaming and looks like a matinee idol. With Euro 2016 his last international tournament, he has decided to go with mismatched neon gloves in goal. That sounds like something designed to brighten up his grey kit, but it’s probably some mind game designed to put off approaching strikers. Buffon, you will be missed.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gianluigi Buffon and his mismatched gloves. Photograph: Emmanuel Dunand/AFP/Getty ImagesMarouane Fellaini is the new Carlos ValderramaThe Colombian had great blond afro play in the 90s, and Fellaini – owner of the best afro in the Premier League – has clearly been catching up on his clips on YouTube. Fellaini’s blond afro was a bright spot in Belgium’s performance against Italy. We would definitely be into the addition of a moustache to complete the look.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Marouane Fellaini and his new blonde afro. Photograph: Action Press/Rex/ShutterstockEngland’s pre-match kit is way nice than the actual kitGiven the result, many people will be regretting that Jamie Vardy was an unused sub for England’s game against Russia on Saturday night. But those with more of an eye on the fashion felt differently. Shots of Vardy warming up allowed a good look at the stripy warm-up kit. It looked quite Raf Simons, especially when worn under the regulation Uefa bib.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jamie Vardy in pre-match training kit. Photograph: Richard Sellers/Sportsphoto/AllstarGrey marl is now alpha-manager wearOK, so he might not have the best personal hygiene, but the German manager’s look is always slick as. Loew-watchers will have observed that it changes – like his team’s strip – for each tournament. 2014’s World Cup-winning navy-blue shirt and grey trousers has been replaced with a grey marl T-shirt and black slacks. Zuckerberg’s power uniform has reached the dugout.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Joachim Loew in grey marl. Photograph: Alexander Hassenstein/Getty ImagesJoe Ledley is the new Andrea PirloNot in football terms, obvs – we’re talking beards. The Italian playmaker is a notable miss at the Euros, if only for his excellent trimmed facial hair. Not to worry, Wales’s Joe Ledley is bringing the beard on in football. His beekeeper’s style is the kind beloved in Brooklyn, where it’s worn with a grandad shirt, braces and sleeves of tattoos. Very Father John Misty.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Joe Ledley’s beekeeper beard. Photograph: Matthew Ashton/AMA/Getty Images