Strawberries are ubiquitous in supermarkets at this time of year, but it’s worth taking the time to find a perfectly aromatic punnet. Pair them with the freshest, thickest cream – the kind that children once dolloped on berries while reading Enid Blyton – and you can’t go wrong. That said, your recipes show a sprinkling of sumac or a slosh of alcohol lifts this winning combination to new heights ...The winning recipe: Pavlova with strawberries, saffron and sumacSugars both caster and powdered, not one but two scented syrups, meringue encrusted with crushed pistachio, cream the colour of sunlight, berries steeped in citrus, sumac, rose and basil … Fadime Tiskaya wins for the sheer extravagance of it all.Serves 6-8For the saffron syrup60ml boiling waterA pinch of saffron threads, ground90g caster sugarFor the meringue3 egg whites70g caster sugar50g icing sugar, sifted3 tbsp saffron syrup (see above)3 tbsp pistachios, choppedFor the strawberriesJuice of ½ lemon3-4 tbsp caster sugar1 tbsp sumac1 tbsp fresh basil, finely chopped 1 tbsp rose water300g strawberries, stalks removed, cut into quartersFor the cream300g double cream30g icing sugar, siftedRemaining saffron syrup (see above)1 First, make the syrup. Put the water and saffron into a pan, then bring to the boil. Stir in the sugar. Let it boil for 3 minutes or so, until the sugar has dissolved completely and it has a thick syrupy consistency. Set aside to cool. By then, the saffron will have turned the syrup golden yellow.2 Set the oven to 110C/225F/gas mark ¼. Line a baking sheet with parchment. Draw an 18cm diameter circle on it.3 Put the egg whites in a clean mixing bowl. Whisk until they are fluffy and slightly stiff. Gradually add the caster sugar, quickly whisking until it turns thick and glossy. Slowly sift icing sugar over the mixture, then continue to whisk until smooth and stiff. Add 3 tbsp of the syrup, then whisk until completely combined.4 Spread the meringue on to the baking sheet, ensuring it stays within the drawn circle. Sprinkle with pistachio pieces, then bake for 1½ hours, or until the meringue is crispy outside. Leave to cool on the trays or a cooling rack.5 In a saucepan, heat the lemon juice, whisk in the sugar, then take off the heat. Add the sumac and transfer into a mixing bowl to let it cool completely. Mix in the basil and rose water. Add the strawberries and gently dress with the mixture. Cover with clingfilm then refrigerate for 1 hour or so, until everything is ready to assemble. You can stir the mixture a few times to coat the strawberries with the mixture.6 Meanwhile, whisk the icing sugar into the double cream. Whisk in the remaining syrup and combine well.7 To assemble the pavlova: put the meringue disc on a serving plate. Spread with a thick layer of cream. Create raised edges so the strawberries stay in. Arrange the strawberries on top, sprinkle with basil and serve.Strawberry and coconut lassiAltogether simpler to rustle up, but just as enticing. Rachel Kelly’s tumbler is like drinkable coconut ice.Serves 2350g strawberries, hulled and chopped, reserve a few whole ones to decorate 1 tbsp sugar, or more to taste 150ml plain yoghurt 90ml coconut milk 2 tbsp clotted cream (optional) 150-200g ice cubes, crushed (optional)1 Blitz the strawberries and sugar together until smooth. Taste and adjust the sweetness with more sugar, if necessary.2 Add the yoghurt and coconut milk. Pulse until smooth and creamy.3 Add crushed ice, a dollop of clotted cream (if using) and a few thin slices of strawberry.Strawberry and Pimms ice-creamI mean, look at those ingredients: it’s a resounding yes, isn’t it? Alice Shields has pulled out all the stops, and it works a treat.Makes around 1 litre200g strawberries, hulled and roughly chopped75ml Pimms350g double cream400g tin of condensed milk100g white chocolate chunks1 Put the strawberries in a saucepan over a medium-low heat, then cook stirring occasionally, until they have turned to mush.2 Once the strawberries are mushy, pass them through a sieve, stir in the Pimms and leave to cool completely.3 When the strawberry mixture has cooled, whip the cream and condensed milk into soft peaks.4 Fold the strawberries and white chocolate chunks into the cream and condensed milk mixture.5 Transfer the mix to a freezerproof container with a lid, then freeze for about 4 hours. Remove from the freezer at least 20 minutes before serving, allowing it to soften.Rosemary strawberry shortcakesShortcakes infused with fresh rosemary and strawberries spiked with gin – I loved Colonial Cravings’ subtle variations on the trad cream tea, especially with bakes as cloud-like as these turned out.Makes 4200g plain flour½ tbsp baking powder1 tbsp sugar (plus extra for finishing)A pinch of salt60g butter1 tbsp fresh rosemary, finely chopped 60ml buttermilk1 eggFor the filling150g strawberries½ tbsp sugar1 tbsp ginWhipped cream, creme fraiche or clotted cream1 Set the oven to 220C/425F/gas mark 7 and lightly grease a baking tray. Mix the flour, baking powder, sugar and salt, then lightly rub in the butter with your fingertips. Mix in the rosemary.2 Beat together the buttermilk and egg, then mix into the dry ingredients a little at a time until it forms a soft dough. You might not need all of the liquid. Try not to overwork the dough, or your shortcakes will become tough.3 Pat the dough out on to a lightly floured surface until it’s about 3cm thick. Use a pastry cutter to stamp out your shortcakes, being careful not to twist it. Re-roll the offcuts of dough as necessary.4 Put the shortcakes on to the prepared baking tray and brush the tops with any of the remaining egg/buttermilk mixture (or just buttermilk if you used all of the egg mix in the dough), then sprinkle them generously with sugar. Bake the shortcakes for 12‑15 minutes, or until lightly golden, then leave them to cool on a wire rack.5 Slice or chop the strawberries, then mix them with the gin and sugar. Let them macerate for 25 minutes while the shortcakes cool.6 To serve, slice each shortcake in half, pile on some of the strawberries and add a dollop of cream.Roasted strawberries with whipped feta, balsamic and mintStrawberries in a salad is never a bad idea, in particular when paired as Bryony Bowie does with balsamic and feta. Whipping the latter with the cream is a trick to hold on to.Serves 2 as a starter or side200g strawberriesCoconut oil 40g feta cheese40g double creamA drizzle of balsamic vinegarA handful of mint leaves, chopped into stripsBlack pepper1 Begin by preheating your oven to 200C/400F/gas mark 6. Wash and hull the strawberries, then put on a rimmed baking tray with a few dots of coconut oil. Roast for 15-20 minutes, or until the strawberries are beginning to darken and the juices are thickening.2 Meanwhile, make the whipped feta. Crumble the feta into a bowl and spoon over the cream, then use a hand or electric whisk to whip until the cheese has completely broken up and the mixture becomes creamy. If you prefer, you can do this in a food processor.3 Transfer the strawberries to a plate, then dot about the whipped feta, drizzle over the balsamic and finish with a scattering of mint leaves and a few twists of black pepper.Strawberry spring rolls with Grand Marnier creamBobby Ananta’s partner says these sound slightly bonkers, but they’re madly good. The demerara crunch and zesty, spiked cream are lovely touches.Makes 15-18450g strawberry jam 150g ground almonds Zest from 1 orange 18 sheets fine filo pastry (25x35cm) 400g strawberries, sliced2 egg yolks, beaten 2 tbsp demerara sugarFor the cream300ml thick double cream Zest from 1 lime 25ml Grand Marnier1 In a medium bowl, mix together the double cream, lime zest and Grand Marnier. Set aside.2 Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/gas mark 6. In a medium bowl, mix together the strawberry jam, ground almond and orange zest, and set aside.3 Dollop 1 tbsp strawberry jam mixture into the middle of each filo pastry sheet. Layer with strawberry slices – about 1 large strawberry per filo sheet. Wrap like a spring roll parcel, and then seal the roll using beaten egg yolk. Brush the yolk all over the outside too. Sprinkle with demerara sugar and bake the rolls for 20-25 minutes, until crisp and golden.4 Serve with the Grand Marnier cream.Strawberries and creme fraicheThe unexpected citrus, the cream not sweet, but soured, the spice you didn’t see coming … a minimalist dessert with maximum flavour from FourthPlinth.Serves 1A handful of strawberries, hulled, halved and rinsedA squeeze of tangerine juice A pinch of saltA grinding of black pepperA dash of cardamom (or nutmeg)A dollop of creme fraiche1 Combine the strawberries and juice. Add the salt, pepper and spice, and toss. Set aside to rest a short while, then serve with the creme fraiche. 