The end of the summer is an occasion that surely deserves to be marked with a celebratory drink. And what could be more redolent of summer sunshine than that stone-cold tropical classic, the planter’s punch? As with many old recipes, there is no definitive version – the planter’s is a pleasingly laid-back affair that goes by many names, depending on where you are in the Caribbean … but, however horizontal things get, there are a few non-negotiables.For a start, it is always rum-based; this is a drink that apparently had its origins in Jamaica, at a time when rum was both cheap and in need of a little help in the flavour department in the form of two other local crops: lime juice and sugar. The results were so refreshing – and delicious – that it’s still popular, even though its main ingredient is now smooth enough to be sipped solo. From these simple beginnings, the planter’s punch has evolved into a tiki bar fantasy, bright with fruit and bristling with umbrellas. Is less more in this instance – or is more always merrier?The boozy base      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Larousse suggests an amber variety of rum. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianOriginally, this would have generally been made with dark Jamaica rum, and most modern recipes still call for this. Cocktail guru Dale DeGroff, though, uses a mixture of dark and light in his book The Craft of the Cocktail, and the 17th-century recipe quoted in Larousse Cocktails suggests an amber variety. Meanwhile, Difford’s Guide: 365 Days of Cocktails recommends the lethal overproof kind that I can find only in a white incarnation.Although golden rum is my usual drink of choice, here I think the dark sort makes more sense; its treacly, molasses quality stands up well to the other ingredients. Clean-cut white rum drowns in the welter of sweet and sour, and even the more emphatic demerara-like qualities of golden are wasted; a rum punch demands a blunderbuss in the form of the dark stuff.DeGroff also uses orange curaçao, another quintessentially Caribbean drink, but one that seems like gilding the lily. The only boozy note required in a planter’s punch is rum, and lots of it.The sour      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gary Regan’s rum punch. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianIn the fine tradition of thirst-quenching tropical pours, it also has a hefty acidic element, which is traditionally provided by lime juice. A recipe in the September 1878 issue of the British magazine Fun calls for lemon, but I assume that is because they were more easily available in Victorian Britain (although I’m willing to stand corrected). Gary Regan’s The Joy of Mixology and Trader Vic’s use both, but I can’t see the point, when the keener, greener sharpness of the lime plays off so well against the sweeter elements.The bittersA popular addition, although not mentioned in the oldest recipes. Most modern versions call for the iconic Angostura bitters, but Regan also adds a dash of the sweeter, lighter New Orleans classic, Peychaud’s. Perhaps more delicate palates than ours would be able to pick this detail up, but as long as you include some sort of bitter element, the exact kind isn’t too important. The sweet      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Difford’s rum punch ... uses sugar syrup. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianAlthough he deploys two kinds of bitters, Regan is unusual in choosing not to balance them with sugar, preferring to stick with fruit juices (of which more later). Stephen Remsberg, a rum collector whose recipe is published on the Serious Eats website, uses sugar syrup, that bartending staple also favoured by DeGroff and Difford’s Guide. Trader Vic’s and Fun magazine prefer straight sugar, but making a sugar solution doesn’t take more than five minutes, and it mixes far more easily into the drink. Eschew sugar altogether and you’ll end up with a mouth-puckeringly acidic result.DeGroff, Larousse and Trader Vic’s use grenadine syrup to give what David Wondrich, writing in Esquire, calls a “crazy colour” and a red-berry sweetness. It feels appropriately gaudy, but the fruity flavour changes the character of the drink, robbing it of its simplicity.The mixers      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dale DeGroff’s rum punch ... a long, sweet, fruity drink. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianThe oldest recipes are watered down by the simplest means available – water. DeGroff prefers sparkling soda water, and also adds both orange and pineapple juice for good measure, while Regan goes for orange and grapefruit, which, while they point up the bitter notes in his recipe, again distract from the key flavours of rum, lime and sugar. If you want a long, sweet, fruity drink, then DeGroff’s is the one to go for, but water makes for a more refreshing experience.The mixing      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Trader Vic’s rum punch: stir over crushed ice. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianThe recipes I try are fairly evenly split between those that stir the drink over crushed ice, such as Remsberg, Larousse and Trader Vic’s, and those that shake it and then serve it on the rocks (Regan and DeGroff), with Fun making no mention of ice at all, again perhaps because it wasn’t likely to be widely available to its readers. I want to minimise dilution here, to keep the punch as cold, but as punchy as possible, so I suggest stirring it over ice cubes, and then serving it over the same.The garnishFor a drink so popular in venues, including beach bars and tiki establishments, not normally known for their decorative restraint, I’m surprised to find that so few of the recipes suggest a garnish – Regan keeps things disappointingly simple with a sprig of mint, while DeGroff and Difford’s Guide make more of an effort with a classic orange and maraschino combo, which always looks unapologetically cheerful.How to cook the perfect kleftiko My favourite extra, however, is Regan’s final grating of nutmeg, which reminds me of the killer punches served in Barbados – the peppery spice is the perfect match with the dark rum, picking up its heat and sweetness.RatiosThe oldest recipes seem to come in the form of easily memorisable rhymes – one quoted in the New York Times in 1908 calls for: “Two [measures] of sour, one and a half of sweet, three of strong and four of weak”, while Fun directs the reader to  A wine-glass with lemon juice fill,Of sugar the same glass fill twiceThen rub them together untilThe mixture looks smooth, soft and nice.Of rum then three wine glasses add,And four of cold water please take. ADrink then you’ll have that’s not bad –At least, so they say in Jamaica. Larousse follows the same sort of ratios, which give an easy-drinking, but still defiantly poky punch.More modern punches, with the exception of DeGroff’s juice-heavy version, tend to be somewhat stronger, with Remsberg and Trader Vic’s both calling for three parts rum to one part sugar and 0.75 parts lime juice. Testers find the rum slightly overpowering in both; this should be a drink to be sipped slowly in a hammock, not gulped down in shock. Take it easy, and enjoy.Perfect rum punch(makes one drink)75ml dark rum50ml sugar syrup25ml lime juice (about 1.5 limes)100ml cold waterCouple of dashes of bittersNutmeg, to garnishGaudy garnish of choice, eg pineapple slice, glace cherry, lime wedgePut the rum, sugar syrup, lime juice and cold water into a tall glass with ice and the bitters (or jug, if making multiple drinks) and stir to combine. Strain into a smaller cold glass half-full of ice, top with a grating of nutmeg and gaudy garnish to taste.Planter’s punch, rum punch, creole punch – whatever you call it, how do you make yours? And if you’re not a rum punch fan, what is your summer drink of choice?