ExhibitionsSunken CitiesIn the murky depths of the Mediterranean, two ancient Egyptian metropolises lay undiscovered for more than 1,000 years, until in the last two decades they were finally unearthed by archaeologists. Now the cities of Thonis-Heracleion and Canopus are brought to life for those of us who can’t witness them first-hand in this British Museum exhibition. It offers up objects excavated from the sites, including statues, jewellery and ritual objects celebrating the cult of Osiris.TVLouis TherouxDrinking To Oblivion: Louis Theroux’s sobering new documentary Theroux has moved away from his more out-there subject matter in recent years, focusing instead on intimate and often affecting personal stories. His newest doc looks at the lasting, and sometimes surprising, effects of brain injury, while his recent one on alcoholism is still available on the BBC iPlayer.TalksCharlotte Brontë At 200Shakespeare isn’t the only major literary figure celebrating a big 00. Those unable to get tickets to the Brontë Society’s Bicentenary Conference in Manchester this August can either add your name to the waiting list at bronte.org.uk or catch this Guardian Live event at the Brighton festival, which offers up reimaginings of the eldest Brontë sister’s gothic gripper Jane Eyre, along with discussion on the author’s legacy.MusicTrue Love Waits   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Finally, the great unreleased Radiohead track of our times finds its way on to one of their albums, providing a lovely, elegiac coda to A Moon Shaped Pool. The rest of the record’s pretty terrific, too.ComedySara PascoeThe comedian and Guardian columnist is enjoying a big year: her book Animal: The Autobiography Of A Female Body – an exploration of the female form both human and otherwise – is out now. It’s accompanied by a standup tour, which begins a residency in Soho this week before heading to a host of other venues. Given Pascoe’s past form, it’s likely to be smart, self-deprecating and linguistically playful.MusicFather John Misty      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Father John Misty. Photograph: Emma TillmanHear the sound of a thousand hearts swooning as the sardonic raconteur with the best facial hair in town swans into Camden Town’s Roundhouse for three shows this week (and Southampton on 21 May). His 2015 album, I Love You, Honeybear, elevated his post-Fleet Foxes folksie ditties to the orchestral heights of Scott Walker and Randy Newman, coupled with lyrics that jab the finger at idiot hipsters as well as laying his own Neil Strauss-level cocksuredness out for a roasting. Basically, indie catnip.Streaming musicRadioooooThe dangerously immersive Radiooooo.com is one of those wonderful online resources that seems like the most obvious idea in the world once someone else has made it happen. Ever wondered what music people were listening to in Uganda in the 1950s? Or in Australia in the 1920s? Or even in Antarctica right now? Radiooooo’s easily navigable audio map of the world has all the answers you need; not to mention many more that you didn’t realise you needed – and trust us, you’ll be stuck here all day finding them out. Furthermore, significant swaths of the musical globe remain temptingly unmapped. So if you have a desperate urge to tell the world about the amazing music scene that was rocking 1940s Zambia, join in and upload away.TVEurovision 2016   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest How Eurovision finally cracked America This 61st edition of the song contest will be lent a geo-political tint by the forthcoming EU referendum… well, for newspaper editors, maybe. For everyone else it’s all about designing devious drinking games and generally revelling in the kitsch kaleidoscope of pop on show. Joe And Jake are flying the flag for the UK with their earnest strumalong You’re Not Alone, which – whisper it – might actually be a bit of a dark horse…TheatreSoulWhen Roy Williams first began researching his new play on the death of Marvin Gaye, he was a massive fan of the music but had limited knowledge of the soul giant’s traumatic life. Over time, however, the subject matter revealed itself to be a goldmine for drama. “The more I asked questions, the more the play seemed to be writing itself really. It felt like a Greek tragedy,” he has said. Shot by his father in the family home, the precise circumstances surrounding Gaye’s final hours remain ambiguous but Soul is set to bring the role of the family in the American dream into sharp focus.FilmGreen Room   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Sometimes vicious things come in small packages. This gleefully spiteful little indie flick spends a hefty chunk of its running time in one room, which might suggest something overly stagey. Instead, we have a taut, brutal thriller as a punk band try to fend off a group of neo-Nazis led by a terrifying Patrick Stewart.