Summer begins! Or at least that’s how it feels when the Edinburgh fringe programme thunks through the letterbox every June. But will it be a glorious summer? Having leafed through the programme, the press releases, the adverts and the endless show titles punning on comedians’ names, I can only say I’m as excited as ever to get up there, clap eyes on new comic talent years in advance of its TV apotheosis, unearth a few unheard-of oddballs, and sit back and celebrate the latest offerings from the country’s hottest comedians. Below I list those who’re currently jumping off the programme’s pages at me – some cast-iron reliable, some very much worth the kind of speculative punt that no trip to the fringe is complete without.Edinburgh festival 2016: what to see and where to go Zach and ViggoUnderbelly Cowgate, 6-28 August Maybe it’s because I’ve recently visited the Philippe Gaulier school outside Paris, where this new Norwegian-American double act studied – like many of today’s hippest comedian-clowns (Doctor Brown; Trygve Wakenshaw) – but there’s certainly something eye-catching about a show, Thunderflop, that recently won the comedy award at the Brighton fringe and according to one reviewer promises “inspired stupidity and anarchic energy”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Katy BrandPleasance Courtyard, 6-29 August“Not something I do a lot any more,” is how Katy Brand described live comedy when interviewed by the Guardian two years ago. But now the former star of ITV2’s Big Ass Show returns from the safe haven of novel-writing with an autobiographical solo show, I Was a Teenage Christian, about her four-times-a-week adolescent churchgoing habit. Elsewhere, the creator of theatre hit The Novice Detective, Sophie Willan, turns standup with another life-writing comedy show, On Record, about being brought up in care – which looks well worth investigating.Michelle WolfPleasance Courtyard, 6-28 August One of the pleasures of the fringe is encountering acts unfamiliar from the UK circuit – including those from America, which provides a steady stream. Last year brought us fine fringe debuts from Kyle Kinane and Jena Friedman. This year, we’ve got Chris Gethard – occasional star of The Office and Inside Amy Schumer – with a solo show about depression, alcohol and suicide; and Michelle Wolf, a writer on Trevor Noah’s Daily Show and for Chris Rock at this year’s Oscars, as well as one of New York’s most hotly tipped standups, with her first fringe offering, So Brave.Josie Long and Martin WilliamsStand Comedy Club, 16-28 August Alongside a pilot of her new solo show, the estimable Josie Long is also showcasing her intriguing comedy/journalism hybrid, Investigations, developed at the Invisible Dot and created and performed in partnership with sometime Guardian reporter Martin Williams. Stories hidden from the news will be brought to light – with jokes. Fans of political and topical comedy may be equally interested in the latest from Ayesha Hazarika, for eight years an adviser to Harriet Harman and Ed Miliband, now riffing on life at Labour’s dizziest heights in Tales from the Pink Bus.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Zoe Coombs MarrUnderbelly Cowgate, 6-28 August I wasn’t quite as delighted as some by Zoe Coombs Marr’s Edinburgh debut last year, when she launched her bilious alter ego Dave – a self-hating male-chauvinist standup of the old school. But she is clearly a talent to watch. Since then, she’s won the prestigious Barry award at the Melbourne comedy festival with her – and Dave’s – follow-up, Trigger Warning, which must be well worth a look in Edinburgh. As must, the sui generis surrealist Sam Simmons, Marr’s predecessor as Barry champ, and his all-new latest, Not a People Person.Richard GaddBanshee Labyrinth, 6-28 August      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anarchic stunt comedy … Richard Gadd. Photograph: Publicity imageLast year was a breakthrough year for several acts, all of whose fringe returns will be high on my list of must-sees. Dorky prop-comic Spencer Jones, now a star of Shakespeare sitcom Upstart Crow, brings back his 2015 hit show Proper Job alongside his new one, Eggy Bagel. After last year’s political-generational cri de coeur, Distant, Ahir Shah pitches back up on the free fringe with Machines, while my fave rave of 2015, Kieran Hodgson, delivers another autobiographical storytelling show, about his teenage love of Mahler and his effort to write his own symphony. Perhaps the pick of the bunch, if only for being the least predictable, is Richard Gadd, who is following up on last year’s late-night nugget of anarchic stunt comedy, Waiting for Gaddot, with an as yet mysterious show called Monkey See, Monkey Do.Robert NewmanSummerhall, 6-28 AugustThere aren’t many shows on the fringe that I’ve seen already - it’s not that kind of festival. Of those I have, I can cheerfully recommend Legally Brown by one half of the Aussie duo Fear of a Brown Planet, Nazeem Hussain. It’s a sardonic but good-natured account of being non-white in modern Australia. Better still is Robert Newman’s The Brain Show, an esoteric hour of erudite comedy from the activist, novelist and comic forwarding a bloody-minded argument against neuro-determinism. We are not, says Newman, our brains – contrary to what some might tell us.James AcasterPleasance Courtyard, 6-28 August You may be disinclined to gamble at the fringe, and look instead for a home banker. Never fear: there are plenty. Daniel Kitson’s got a new work-in-progress which, despite its title (Daniel Kitson Presents an Insufficient Number of Undeveloped Ideas Over Ninety Testing Minutes Starting at Noon), is bound to be interesting. Bridget Christie and Katherine Ryan are also testing new material. Phil Nichol is doing a highlights set drawn from his 20 years at the fringe, and the always excellent Max and Ivan dramatise their own relationship, supposedly, in their likely-to-be-ace new show. First among equals in this category might be James Acaster, a consistently terrific, totally individual fringe comic whose new show, Reset – judging by reviews from the Melbourne comedy festival – may just be his best yet.Sofie HagenLiquid Room, 6-28 August In tandem with Jessie Cave’s knockout show about her obsessive love life, Sofie Hagen’s best newcomer award-winning Bubblewrap – about mental health and teenage obsession with Westlife – raised the bar for intimate comedy confessionals. Now comes the sophomore show, Shimmer Shatter, about which little is known other than it, too, tackles the Danish comic’s “inner and outer demons”.BurnistounGilded Balloon, 4-14 August       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fringe debutants … Burnistoun. Photograph: Graeme HunterSpeaking of sophomore shows, last year’s buzziest sketch outfit – the pleasingly off-beam Daphne – return with their second Edinburgh outing, while ex-Oxford Revue duo Giants (one of whom calls Ian Hislop dad) pick up their baton as most hyped sketch debutants. Elsewhere, hardy perennials Beasts – directed as ever by Pappy’s lord of misrule Tom Parry – present Mr Edinburgh 2016, a sketch show masquerading as a (sports? beauty? comedy?) contest. But, having last year decried the dearth of Scottish comedy on the fringe, I’d better give this year’s pre-Edinburgh sketch laurels to Burnistoun (Robert Florence and Iain Connell), the well-loved BBC Scotland sketch show now following up a sell-out Glasgow run with a first appearance at the fringe.