An unused scene in Star Wars: The Force Awakens featured Lupita Nyong’o’s Maz Kanata using telekinetic powers to fight off a stormtrooper incursion, it has emerged.Speaking to Collider, special effects supervisor Chris Corbould appeared to confirm longstanding rumours that much more was originally seen of the orange-toned alien in The Force Awakens. Some fans have complained that Kanata’s appearance in JJ Abrams’s film failed to fully flesh out the character, specifically with regard to the questions of whether she is strong with the Force and why she was in possession of Luke Skywalker’s lightsaber.Star Wars: Episode IX's Colin Trevorrow promises 'profoundly satisfying' Rey reveal Now Corbould’s comments seem to confirm that Kanata is – or was originally intended to have been – capable of using the Force.“There was a particular part of a scene that never made it, where they go underneath the castle and they’re going into the underground passageways,” the supervisor told Collider. “And stormtroopers are coming down the stairs and Maz uses her powers to collapse the ceiling.“From my point of view, [that] worked absolutely brilliantly because you had all the main actors running up and then Maz does her bit and then the whole ceiling collapses in front of them, but that never made it. That was a shot I was quite proud of, actually – it worked really, really well.”JJ Abrams last month dismissed reports that Nyong’o’s scenes were cut because the Mexican-Kenyan Oscar-winner failed to live up to expectations as a motion-capture artist. John Boyega: Star Wars: Episode VIII will be 'much darker' “In truth, her performance wasn’t satisfactory. It was spectacular,” he said in a statement on 4 December to the New York Post. “She has brought the character of Maz Kanata to life in the most wonderful, wise, touching, deep and funny way. Lupita never ceased to amaze me. Yes, we tried many approaches, and we finally landed on just what the film needed. She elevated all the scenes she is in, I’m forever grateful, and can’t wait for people to see her stunning performance.”The film-maker later elaborated, revealing that Kanata was originally intended to accompany Rey, Finn and Han Solo to meet Carrie Fisher’s Leia Organa and the Resistance. “But we realised that she really had nothing to do there of value, except to have her sitting around,” he said. “So we ended up leaving those things out.”According to Collider, the Blu-ray release of The Force Awakens could feature up to 20 minutes of deleted scenes. It is not clear if the segue involving Kanata will make it, nor whether the alien’s apparent ability to use the Force should be considered canonical, given no evidence of her supposed telekinetic abilities ever made the final cut.