Gregory Rabassa once received the ultimate accolade for a translator: his author admitted he thought Rabassa’s translation was better than the original. And since the author was Gabriel García Márquez, and the book One Hundred Years of Solitude, this was praise indeed. Rabassa’s translation of García Márquez’s 1967 novel was published in 1971; he went on to translate a further four books by the Colombian Nobel laureate, who also said of him: “I think that my work has been completely re-created in English. There are parts of the book which are very difficult to follow literally. The impression one gets is that the translator read the book and then rewrote it from his recollections.”In the late 1960s and 1970s, Rabassa, who has died aged 94, produced fine versions of many of the leading Latin American authors in what came to be known as the “boom”: an upsurge of interest in the continent’s literary production in Spanish and Portuguese, when, for the first time, books from Latin America became international bestsellers. Notable among Rabassa’s translations at the time were the Peruvian Mario Vargas Llosa’s Conversation in the Cathedral, Hopscotch by the Argentinian novelist Julio Cortázar, and the popular novels of the Brazilian Jorge Amado.Guardian Books podcast: Latin American novels and poetry Rabassa was born in Yonkers, New York, to a Cuban father, Miguel, a sugar broker, and a mother, Clara (nee MacFarland), of Scottish and Mancunian ancestry. He was brought up in the New Hampshire countryside, where, as his 2005 memoir If This Be Treason recounts, the combination of his father’s Hispanic heritage, his mother’s eccentric relatives and his own make-believe linguistic worlds as a child all contributed to an early fascination with language.He studied Romance languages at school and university, before a spell during the second world war as a codebreaker in the US army. This took him to Italy, where he soon added a knowledge of the country’s language and literature to his earlier achievements. After leaving the army, Rabassa went on to receive a master’s degree in Spanish, and after living and studying in Brazil for several months he completed a doctorate in Portuguese language and literature in 1954.It was while teaching at Columbia University, New York, that his appetite for translation was confirmed. His method, as related in If This Be Treason, was not to read the book he had to work on first, but to start from the beginning and translate as he went: “I used the excuse that it gave the translation the freshness that a first reading would have and which ought to make others’ reading of the translation be endowed with that same feeling.”Rabassa was also a firm believer that the translator should remain invisible behind the work, striving above all for accuracy. It was for this reason, he once told an interviewer, that he did not often translate poetry: “It is with poetry that I find more mischief being done to accuracy than with prose. In most cases it need not be so, but so often the translator is also a poet in his own language and simply cannot restrain his great bardic ego to the detriment of the foreign poet’s message.”At the same time, despite being an academic himself, he was scathing about the way those whom he called the “Professor Horrendos” would deconstruct texts to find fault with translations. He himself was firmly on the side of translation as a craft, one whose aim was to offer the reader a text that should read as much as possible as if it had been authored in English.His reputation as an outstanding translator was built on his 1967 version of the novel Rayuela (Hopscotch) by Cortázar. This won a National Book award in the US, and it was Cortázar who recommended Rabassa to his friend García Márquez. From then on, Rabassa became US publishers’ first choice for Latin American translations, although he often despaired of the increasing commercialisation of the publishing industry. In his memoir, he consoles himself with the thought that translators “must take what small comfort we can in knowing that we are doing something honourable in a world of imposters, pretenders and bourgeois tradesmen”.He taught Latin American literature at Queens College, New York, well into his 80s, and in 2006 was awarded the US National Medal of Arts.Rabassa is survived by his second wife, Clementine (nee Christos), and their daughter; by a daughter from his first marriage, to Roney (nee Edelstein), which ended in divorce; and by two granddaughters.• Gregory Rabassa, writer and translator, born 9 March 1922; died 13 June 2016