My mother first told me the story of her family’s tragedy when I was six. I’d been asking about her own mother. Other kids had grandmothers. Why didn’t we? “She jumped off a cliff after my brother disappeared,” she said. “It’s called committing suicide.”I remember being fascinated, as well as shocked, and hungry for specifics. Yet when she provided them I was frustrated. There was something about the double mystery that didn’t hang together. And why was there no ending?In the late summer of 1937, when my mother was 10, my grandmother took her and her three brothers to the Alps. Perhaps she thought the Swiss mountain air would do them all good after the shock of my grandfather’s death barely two years before. Bracing air, wild flowers, long walks: those might help them rediscover some joy.At the hotel in Switzerland they played cards, read, laughed, bickered.The row erupted one morning over breakfast. Later, no one seemed to know or remember what caused my grandmother and her eldest son to clash so bitterly. Did she tell him to go and cool off somewhere or did he just slam the door and stomp off into the mountains? He was gone all day but he liked walking. He was 19. Nobody worried.Until he didn’t come back.The police didn’t take it seriously at first. He’d left his passport at the hotel. Did he have money with him? No one knows. He’s a man-boy, a hot-head. He wants to frighten his mother. He’ll show up.But he doesn’t show up, that night or the next.Search parties comb the mountains, deploy sniffer dogs. The police don’t say it outright, but it’s a body they’re looking for now. Bad weather is on the way. Once it has blown over, they’ll dredge the lake.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Liz Jensen’s grandmother, whose body was found at the bottom of a cliff.The storm breaks on the fourth day: a massive cloudburst. They call off the dogs, postpone the search.But my grandmother has other ideas.Nobody knows why she insists on continuing the search, despite the dangerous conditions, and taking her 17-year-old son with her. Or why the hotel staff don’t stop them leaving. Or why, somewhere on the mountain, she sends my uncle back to the hotel, saying she’ll join him there.Or why she doesn’t.These are questions the police will ask the next morning, after the storm has cleared and they have found my grandmother’s body at the foot of a cliff, her neck broken from the fall.The family of five is now reduced to three. Within a week, my mother and her two remaining brothers have returned to Britain. Swiss and British investigators are all over the case for a while, as are the press. But as time passes, interest wanes. The hot-headed boy remains missing. There are no new clues. Quietly, the detectives shelve the file.Hitler begins his reign of slaughter in Europe. The eldest brother becomes an army doctor. My mother and her younger brother divide their time between boarding school and their maternal uncle’s home in Somerset, where they run wild in the woods. It’s wartime and their bereavements are a drop in a vast ocean of loss. It’s a time of stiff upper lips.After the war, my mother’s elder brother will move to Nigeria and work with people with Hansen’s disease in leprosy colonies. Her younger brother, just seven when the tragedy struck, will remember almost nothing of his life before Switzerland. The daughter, stoical, lonely and self-destructive, will pursue a career, marry and have children. Like her brothers, she will continue to hope that her older brother is out there somewhere. That he is living his life in parallel to theirs. That one day he might show up.  Liz Jensen’s uncle, who disappeared when he was 19.But that hope was to be counterbalanced by a private conviction about her mother’s death: that she had jumped deliberately. This belief – the one she conveyed to me in our suicide conversation when I was six – would corrode her mental health and blight her life.I returned to the tragedy’s paradoxes often over the years, but it was only after I had children myself that the sheer unlikeliness of her interpretation crystallised itself into a question. What mother desperately searching for a missing child, with three others in her care, decides to kill herself? And after only four days? It didn’t make psychological sense.Surely the truth was as banal as it was obvious. A storm was raging. The ground was treacherous. My grandmother lost her footing and simply slipped and fell.Yet the suicide version of events was the one my mother believed, and the one she returned to again and again as she planted onions in the garden or played Scrabble in the psychiatric hospital. It was one of the factors that prompted her, one night, to inject herself with 20 disposable syringes of my father’s insulin.“I know exactly why she did it,” she said on the ward afterwards, surrounded by pumps, monitors and tubes. It was still touch and go: it would take them days to flush the drug out of her system. “She was desperate.”“But who told you she killed herself?” I asked. My brother, father and I were feeling pretty desperate ourselves. She was now planning to jump off the roof.“No one. But no one told me she didn’t.”Here she rested her case.My mother was sectioned and spent eight weeks on suicide watch. Within a few months, thanks to the right medication, she found a measure of serenity and this persisted until she died a decade later. Her corrosive self-destructiveness and paranoia were replaced by the floaty, almost queenly mildness that extremely high doses of anti-psychotics can bestow. She told me once that she grew up looking for her missing brother everywhere. She’d see his face in a crowd. She’d stalk young men who looked like him. She’d see him on the underground, on the street, in television footage of crowds.“When did you stop?” I asked once.“Never,” she said. “I never stopped.”She seemed proud of this. Proud that she had kept him alive. As the years passed, she said, the brother-candidates she eyed grew older and older: he was still out there, growing old with his peers.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Liz Jensen, as a baby, with her parents.What work. In that moment I wished for her sake that he had simply died, either in the mountains or somewhere else. That there had been a corpse to identify, a gravestone my mother and her brothers could have visited, a way to lay the past to rest. Instead, bereft of a beloved sibling and devoid of an explanation for his loss, they were to remain haunted, each in their own way, by something worse than a ghost.There are 13 grandchildren in the family. We all have our theories about what happened, to our grandmother and our missing uncle. Many of us suspect that the second brother, the last of them to see our grandmother alive, knew something he never revealed and took to his grave. My own hunch is that at least up until the war, our uncle was still alive. It’s easy to imagine that on learning of his mother’s death he blamed himself and could never face the family again.But none of us will ever know. Double Tragedy in the Alps is a story with no ending. Some narratives can be shaped into parables about hope, or about the return of the lost. Not this one. Fiction can heal. But unfinished stories, and our attempts to spin false endings for them in our desperation for narrative order, can kill.In his book Into the Silent Land, the neurologist Paul Broks writes: “When we see the brain we realise that we are, on one level, no more than meat; and on the other, no more than fiction.”More than ever, I feel the truth of that. Death is rarely the end of any story. The dead are silent – yet they speak to us. Stories are born of our attempts to answer the questions they provoke. Where there is a void, our brains rush in to create a truth. As if by doing so we can bring back the missing, resurrect the dead.When I think of my mother, I think of the destructive momentum that her story-spinning brain generated, counterbalancing the hope, outweighing what was good. Preventing any future walks in the mountains in the bracing air amid the wild flowers from bringing what they should bring: great flashes of joy.• Liz Jensen’s novel The 9th Life of Louis Drax is out in paperback and has been made into a film 