 I love adventure and especially the idea of travelling through time. Are there some good stories that will take me to another place? And are there some good devices that might make this possible?I’d love to travel through time, and some stories show how it can be done. When the going gets tough at home it is wonderful to think that you could travel to another place to get away from things or to be able to see your own world through a different perspective. The best thing about time travel or time slip stories is that they can provide a perspective on contemporary problems by showing either how things were in the past or how difficulties might be ironed out in the future. In this way, time slip stories can be good food for thought on political or social issues. Authors use many different devices to make time slip or time travel work. In some stories, including Alison Uttley’s classic A Traveller in Time and Philippa Pearce’s bestselling Tom’s Midnight Garden the ability to go back in time depends on being in a particular place. For Penelope in A Traveller in Time, visits to the library lead her back into life in England during the reign of Queen Elizabeth 1, while Tom, in Tom’s Midnight Garden, is transported by a mis-chiming grandfather clock into a garden that once belonged to the house he lives in. Here he meets and befriends Hatty, a girl from another time.More recently, in the four titles in Jon Scieszka’s Time Warp series including Your Mother was a Neanderthal, three modern day children find they can travel back in time to different periods through the magic invested in a particular book. Kate Saunders: why I wrote Five Children on the Western Front - children's books podcast Meanwhile, for the children in Kate Saunders recent award-winning Five Children on the Western Front, it is a creature not a thing that allows the children to travel in time. The Psammead, who originally appeared in E Nesbit’s Five Children and It, is a grumpy sand fairy with a hairy body and eyes on stalks who has the ability to grant wishes. Kate Saunders skilfully gives the Psammead new powers, including the ability to travel in time. Set during the first world war, what the children see of the future is sobering; it makes for a poignant and deeply moving way of understanding the extent of the loss of life of a generation.Guardian children's books podcast: Eoin Colfer on his new series WARP In a lighter vein, but with a serious underlying theme, is Eoin Colfer’s WARP (Witness Anonymous Relocation Program) series which starts with The Reluctant Assassin. Eoin Colfer uses time travel to fuel a furiously paced adventure in which Riley, living in Victorian times and working for the FBI, has to travel through time to catch an assassin. This assassin is unusually dangerous; what he is trying to do will change the world. No wonder he has to be stopped. In Terry Prachett’s Johnny and the Bomb, one of a series of titles about Johnny Maxwell, Johnny and his friends meet up with Mrs Tachyon and discover that she has amazing powers of time travel. Via her shopping trolley full of old plastic bags, Johnny and the rest travel back to 1941 where they soon find out how very different the world was, and especially how mono-cultural life was. In addition to being a great adventure, Johnny and the Bomb is a wise social commentary on the issues of diversity and gender equality. How real Viking objects inspired Francesca Simon's new series – in pictures But not all time travel is about going back; it can work both ways, as in Francesca Simon’s Lost Gods, in which the gods from long ago turn up in contemporary London. Their view of our lives provides interesting insights into how we live, while how these gods from long ago appear in the modern world makes for hilarious reading. In Ross Welford’s newly published Time Travelling with a Hamster, Al’s father dies, leaving a letter encouraging Al to make use of the time machine he has built in an old bath tub to go back in time, so that he can change the future. Specifically, he wants Al to prevent the accident which has caused his death. But can Al, helped by his hamster who accompanies him everywhere, change the past? And what other consequences might there be? Top 10 parallel worlds in fiction For Albie, in Christopher Edge’s The Many Worlds of Albie Bright, a touching story about a boy who sets off for a parallel universe, the time machine that sets him off on his trip to a parallel universe to find his recently dead mother, is more homespun. He creates a way to travel through time and space using a box, his mother’s computer and a past-its-best banana. They do the job well enough and Albie sets off on a scientific journey which also helps him to ease his grief. One of the most famous of all stories about travelling in time and space is Madeline L’Engle’s A Wrinkle in Time, the story of how three children rescue their father from the planet Camazotz with the help of Mrs Who, Mrs How and Mrs Whatsit. Almost sabotaged by the evil IT who rules the planet, the children ultimately succeed in their mission and return home wiser!Whether time travel stories go backwards or forwards or off into space they give readers the chance to think about the world around them and to consider how things could be done differently. By showing other ways of living, on a large scale for societies and a small scale for families, they question things that are taken for granted. In fiction at any rate, travelling through time seem to have largely beneficial powers; those who come back from their journey always seem to be wiser - and happier!