Russell Hoban wrote more than 60 children’s books between 1959 and 2011, the year he died. From one of the earliest, Bedtime for Frances, which launched his much beloved Frances the Badger series, to the last, Rosie’s Magic Horse, published posthumously in 2012, Hoban displayed a talent for unconventional narratives. Many of his books for children can be described as evergreen, among them The Marzipan Pig, which turns 30 this year and reemerges in an elegant new edition from the New York Review Children’s Collection this week.In this timeless tale, a sentient candy pig falls behind a couch, where it is consumed by a sentimental mouse that is, in turn, eaten by an owl who falls in love with a glowing taxi meter, and so on. Full of charm and adventure, The Marzipan Pig begins and ends with the consumption of a delicious almond confection, and yet that simplicity – or sugarcoating – belies the power of Hoban’s fable.“The emphasis of the entire story is on the continuation of life rather than on its demise,” the scholar Alida Allison once wrote, in her introduction to the anthology, Russell Hoban/Forty Years: Essays on His Writings for Children. “For any given receptive individual, there is the possibility of reprieve, hope for a happy ending, or at least some improvement of one’s lot.”Allison compares Hoban to his contemporaries in children’s literature, Roald Dahl and Shel Silverstein: “Hoban’s comedic bent is more philosophical than anarchistic or macabre, more dispassionate, deeper.”As with Dahl, Hoban’s long-term collaboration with Quentin Blake provided his texts with appropriately whimsical illustrations – in this case, of pigs, mice, owls, clocks, cityscapes and hibiscus flowers. Hoban once said of Blake: “He’s wonderful in making the pages turn right and in thinking of amusing ways of doing things.”Blake’s monochrome charcoal drawings graced the first edition of The Marzipan Pig. For the new edition, published this week, the publishing arm of the New York Review of Books commissioned Blake to color his original artwork in shades of blue-gray, yellow, pink and gold. The endpapers bear a dynamic pattern of Blake’s stylized flower that gives the impression of being gleefully flung at whoever cracks the spine.The Marzipan Pig is the most recent of a cluster of redesigned or refurbished editions of Hoban’s books published in the past several years. In 2010, NYRB republished his 1964 children’s book The Sorely Trying Day, illustrated by his first wife, Lillian Hoban. In 2013 and 2014, Walker Books put forth new editions of six Hoban/Blake books, all from the 70s and 80s.Hoban incisively predicted this revival: “People will say, ‘Yes, Hoban, he seems an interesting writer, let’s look at him again.’”That reassessment reveals an author adept at identifying children’s everyday concerns and using plot and prose to allay anxieties and impart basic ethics. “I think that my father had a very intuitive take on a child’s view of the world,” says Phoebe Hoban, daughter of Russell and Lillian Hoban. “There is a lesson in all of [his children’s books], but it’s a lesson that’s inextricable from the language and the structure of the book itself.”Phoebe is also an author. When pressed to pick a favorite of her father’s books for children, she named the third in the Frances series, first published in 1964. “Bread and Jam is a classic … It exemplifies everything my father excelled at,” she says. It is undoubtedly a leap from disobedient badgers and candy pigs to the novels he wrote for adults, the best known of which is his post-apocalyptic Riddley Walker, first published in 1980 and recently republished in Gollancz’s SF Masterworks series. But Hoban, an American who spent the last four decades of his life in London, defied genre and disdained creative typecasting. His literary output is considerable, numbering more than 80 titles; even fans may be unacquainted with the breadth of it. New editions – which also include Turtle Diary, also published by the NYRB, in 2013 and a trio from Valancourt Books last year that included The Lion of Boaz-Jachin and Jachin-Boaz, Kleinzeit, and Pilgermann – may change that. As with any republication of an old or out-of-print book, an undercurrent of legacy creation (and curation) exists. If the flurry of new editions isn’t indication enough of Hoban’s potential for literary canonization in the near future, the news this past summer that Yale University’s Beinecke Library acquired his archive is another strong sign. 