Given the difficulties inherent in reproducing some of the world’s best cocktails – a properly-made punch à la Romaine requires an ice cream maker and mastery of the Italian meringue technique – it’s little wonder that we often outsource anything more complicated than a G&T to the professionals. But if you’re having people over and want to impress, these five drinks are surprisingly easy to make – and will win you more than a few accolades.1. Prescription julep This 19th-century predecessor to the mint julep requires a lewis bag and a mallet – or a nice clean tea-towel, a rolling pin, and a bit of patience. Make sure you have lots of ice on hand, then – when you’re ready to impress – pop the ice in your lewis bag (wrap it in your tea towel) and whack it to a fine powder with your mallet (rolling pin). Transfer this powdery crushed ice to a bowl. For the drink, put the sugar and water in each glass (if you have some metal julep cups kicking around, by all means bust them out). Stir until the sugar is dissolved, then add the mint leaves. Lightly muddle these leaves to release their oils – just a gentle press, don’t bash them. Then fill each glass with your finely crushed ice and follow it with the cognac and rye whiskey. Stir until a frost forms on the outside, then top the glass up with more crushed ice. Lightly spank three or four sprigs of mint per serve, and place these in the ice. Tuck some fresh berries in amongst the herbiage if you like, and dust the lot with some icing sugar. Insert a short straw near the mint, so your guests smell the lovely aroma as they sip.Make it at home: Prescription julep (adapted from Harper’s Monthly, 1857, via David Wondrich) 45ml cognac (VSOP or thereabouts)15ml rye whiskeySix or so mint leaves, stems removedTwo teaspoons sugar10ml or so water Build sugar and water in glass. Stir until dissolved. Add mint leaves and muddle lightly. Top with crushed ice, then cognac and rye. Stir to incorporate, then top again with crushed ice. Garnish liberally with mint (and berries, if you’re so inclined). Pair with a movie: Goldfinger, if only so you can favourably compare your julep to the sorry excuse for a julep that James Bond is served at Auric Goldfinger’s Kentucky horse stud.2. Dry martiniI know what you’re thinking: isn’t the point of the martini that it’s a difficult drink to master? The kind you need to stir a precise number of times, or lightly mist with vermouth from an atomiser, or make with liquid nitrogen? Well, to purloin a phrase from Cormac McCarthy’s Blood Meridian: the mystery of the martini is that there is no mystery. It’s actually a very simple stirred drink, and easy to nail if you take a little care when putting it together.The first and most important step is to make sure you’ve got good, fresh dry vermouth on hand – nothing kills a martini’s chances like bad vermouth, even in tiny quantities. That bottle of Martini & Rossi that’s been mouldering on your sideboard since your last cocktail party in 2005? It’s not going to cut it. (Remember, vermouth is wine – and you wouldn’t drink a Marlborough sauvignon blanc that was opened back when savvy b was cool, would you?) Noilly Prat or Dolin are both excellent choices.Next, the gin. You don’t have to go all-out when buying a gin for your martinis – a solid mid-shelf choice, such as Beefeater or Tanqueray, can be as impressive in a martini as any high-end import or microdistiller’s locavore option. Just avoid the really cheap stuff, and aim for something with a bit of juniper bite to it – a too-soft gin will make a limp martini.Finally, the technique. Place your cocktail glasses in the freezer five minutes before you plan to serve the drink. Then, when you’re ready, pop the gin and your nice, fresh vermouth in a mixing vessel of some kind – it could be a small water jug, the bottom half of a shaker set, or a proper fancy mixing glass. If you have some on hand, throw in two dashes of orange bitters per person. Fill your vessel with ice – preferably made with filtered water, or at least not reeking of your freezer’s contents – and stir to chill, about 30 seconds. (If you don’t have a proper bar spoon, a chopstick works well.) Strain the drink into your chilled glasses, snap a twist of lemon rind over each drink’s surface to release the aromatic oils, and drop the twist in.Finally: once you’ve impressed your guests with your mastery of this sophisticated classic, for God’s sake put that vermouth in the fridge.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Contrary to popular opinion, the dry martini is easy to nail – so long as you get the vermouth right. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoMake it at home: dry martini (adapted from 1904 ‘marguerite’ recipe in Stuart’s Fancy Drinks and How to Mix Them)60ml gin30ml dry vermouthTwo dashes orange bittersBuild ingredients in a mixing glass. Add ice, stir to chill, and strain into a chilled cocktail coupe. Express the oils from a twist of lemon peel into the drink, then place in the drink to garnish. You can use olives if you must. You can also use less vermouth if you or your guests have a pathological fear of the stuff – but try a vermouth-heavy martini before disdaining it, because they’re a delight.Pair with an album: Splendor in the Grass by (who else?) Pink Martini.3. Earl grey marTEAni You’ll need a shaker to make this contemporary classic cocktail from Pegu Club’s Audrey Saunders; you’ll also need non-vegan guests, because it contains egg white, which gives it its silky texture. The trick to master for a truly impressive earl grey marTEAni is the “dry shake” – so called because you shake the drink once without ice, to froth up the egg white, then again with ice, to chill and dilute. You’ll also need to plan a little in advance – the earl grey gin needs two hours to infuse before it’s ready. Start by infusing some gin with loose leaf earl grey tea – use four tablespoons for a 700ml bottle. (You can scale this down if you don’t want to commit a whole bottle of gin to the endeavour.) Cap and shake the bottle, then leave at room temperature for two hours to infuse. Strain the gin through a tea strainer and into a clean bottle. This infusion will keep indefinitely if refrigerated.  As with the dry martini, place your cocktail glasses in the freezer five minutes or so before you’re ready to serve. Unless you have an exceptionally large shaker and strong arms, you’ll probably want to make each drink separately.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pegu Club’s Audrey Saunders leads the cocktail demonstration at the 2016 New York Culinary Experience. Photograph: Neilson Barnard/Getty Images for the New York CuMake it at home: earl grey marTEAni (adapted from Audrey Saunders, Pegu Club) 45ml earl grey infused gin30ml freshly-squeezed lemon juice22.5ml simple syrupOne egg white Build ingredients in cocktail shaker. Seal shaker and dry shake. Add ice, shake again, and double strain into a chilled coupe. Garnish with a twist of lemon peel or – why not? – a slice of cucumber on the rim. Pair with a show: Star Trek: The Next Generation – and finish your drink every time Jean-Luc Picard says “Tea, earl grey, hot.”4. Sloe gin fizz This classic uses similar techniques to the earl grey marTEAni, but adds an extra twist by straining the drink over soda water, which reacts with the egg white for a lovely aerated texture.Make it at home: sloe gin fizz (adapted from PUNCH) 22.5ml sloe gin22.5ml dry gin22.5ml freshly-squeezed lemon juice15ml simple syrupOne egg white30ml soda water (as fizzy as possible) Build all ingredients except soda water in cocktail shaker. Seal shaker and dry shake. Add ice and shake again. Place soda water in a chilled coupe and slowly strain cocktail on top. If you’re trying to impress someone special, scatter some dried rose petals onto the foam. Pair it with a song: ‘Portland, Oregon’ by Loretta Lynn and Jack White (“Well, Portland, Oregon and sloe gin fizz / If that ain’t love, then tell me what is”).5. Tequila por me amante While a sloe gin fizz is romantic only when topped with rose petals, this impressive drink is strictly for those occasions when you want to seduce someone. Tequila por me amante literally means, in Spanish, “Tequila for my lover”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tequila por me amante is ‘strictly for those occasions when you want to seduce someone’. Photograph: Alamy Stock Photo The preparation is simple: take a large, clean jar (about a litre in volume) and loosely fill it with washed, hulled, and halved strawberries. Top the jar off with reposado (lightly aged) tequila – make sure it’s a 100% agave tequila, and a decent one at that – then seal it. Leave this strawberry-tequila mixture in a cool, dark place for three weeks, shaking it once every few days. (Yes, this takes some planning. Use the extra time before your big date night to clean your room and pine after your crush.) Once your three weeks of pining are over, strain the jar’s contents through a coffee filter nestled in a sieve over a large bowl. Transfer the strawberry-flavoured tequila to a bottle and keep in the refrigerator. You can serve it with a squeeze of fresh lime, soda, and ice – but with any luck the night will shortly progress to drinking it neat. Just remember Shakespeare’s advice, from Macbeth: “Drink sir, is a great provoker … it provokes the desire, but it takes away the performance.”Make it at home: tequila por me amante (adapted from Charles H. Baker, 1939, via Jeffrey Morgenthaler) Approx. 680gr fresh strawberries, washed, hulled, and halvedApprox. 480ml reposado tequilaPlace strawberry and tequila in a large (one-litre) jar. Seal and leave infuse three weeks. Strain and bottle. Pair it with a film: Alfonso Cuarón’s Y Tu Mamá También … if that’s the way you and your date swing.