Kolmanskop, NamibiaSand in itself is not spooky (unless you are frightened by beaches), but desert sand slowly filling a ghost town does rather chill the spirits. This former German mining town was founded a century ago by diamond hunters, and once sported a ballroom, skittle alley, casino and tram. But the diamonds dried up and the town was abandoned to the elements in 1954. To this day, it is supposedly haunted by the ghosts of miners who died in the brutal heat of the desert. A TV crew for Destination Truth once locked themselves in the meat locker of the old butcher’s shop, and recorded some “electronic voice phenomena” of ghosts whispering in their ears – which is certainly a better story than travelling all the way to the desert and finding nothing supernatural at all.Prague, Czech RepublicConsidered by many aficionados to be the most haunted city in Europe, Prague is known for its headless Templar Knight, who is often spotted trotting down the cobbled streets at night gripping his head in one hand. To release the knight from this ghastly doom, a living bystander must grab his sword and stab him in the heart – a feat that, unsurprisingly, has not yet been accomplished. To the north of the city lies Houska Castle, where Nazi officers supposedly conducted occult experiments during the war; in its grounds lies a building that was allegedly constructed to cover a hole full of demons. Given the way this year is going, it’s tempting to suspect that some of them have managed to leak out.Shepherdstown, West VirginiaThere’s no shortage of allegedly haunted cities in the US. The alarmingly named Helltown, Ohio swirls with rumours of chemical spills and Satanists, while Salem, Massachusetts still trades on its notorious witch trials (though it has perhaps gone a bit too “ghostertainment” now). However, weird things have long been reported in Shepherdstown. In the Entler Hotel, now the town’s visitor centre, guests have claimed hearing the cries of a young man killed by his best friend in a gambling duel in the early 19th century. This year the town’s police chief went so far as to call in a team of paranormal investigators for a Destination America and TLC series called Ghosts of Shepherdstown – either out of concern for the volume of ghost sightings, or as a brilliant marketing ploy to bring in more tourists.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fake severed heads in Haw Par Villa ... or are they real? Photograph: AlamySingaporeBeachcombers at Singapore’s Changi Beach have reported hearing the cries of Chinese soldiers massacred here by Japanese forces during the second world war, and the former military hospital of Changi was said to be ghost-ridden from the 1940s. Some say it is the most haunted place in Asia. Yet perhaps the city’s freakiest sight is Haw Par Villa, a theme park built in 1937 to illustrate Chinese folklore, and which some people say conceals one of the actual gates of hell. Security guards report weird nocturnal screams, and the exhibits feature creepy waxwork people torturing each other in gruesome detail. Some say these models are actual dead humans covered in wax, which would certainly explain a lot.Chichen Itza, MexicoThis monumental Mayan city in Yucatan, built around the sixth century, boasts an enormous pyramid, a ball game court, and towering stone statuary and temples. Some pretty amazing things still happen here: for instance, the pyramidal Temple of Kukulcan, devoted to a snake deity, is designed so that on the spring equinox, the sun strikes the stones in such a way as to make it seem as though a serpent is crawling down the pyramid’s side. Chichen Itza also supposedly hosted mass human sacrifices, and tourists and guides now report seeing the ghosts of those killed, and of old priests doomed to wander the city forever. Or, perhaps the world really did end in 2012 as they prophesied, and we are all ghosts in a ruined Mayan universe?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Toowoomba might be haunted, but at least they have their own dedicated ghost chasers. Photograph: AlamyToowoomba, AustraliaThis garden city in southern Queensland has lately seen a remarkable spate of the paranormal phenomenon in which people take photographs of scenes, then draw red circles around fuzzy shadows that are – maybe, definitely – ghosts. Such is the practice of the Toowoomba Ghost Chasers, who have their own Facebook page and “photographic proof” of the existence of a ghost who hops over the tombstones in a graveyard – not to mention images of some “supernatural blue mist” and the town’s famous “lady in the red dress” (the ghost of a local woman who died in 1944). Exactly what the chasers plan to do if they ever actually catch up with a ghost is unclear.Tokyo, JapanThe genre of Japanese ghostly horror has taken over the world in recent decades, through video games such as the Silent Hill series, and films including the terrifying Ring. So it’s no surprise that Tokyo should have such a rich assortment of spooky legends. A woman staying at the Akasaka Mansion hotel once reported that an unseen “thing” dragged her across the room by her hair. Meanwhile, visitors to Doryodo Ruins in Otukayama Park claim to hear the screams of at least two murder victims whose bodies were found there – including a student who was killed in 1973 by the professor she was having an affair with. A decade later, the authorities dismantled the temple on the site (probably not a bad idea).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The penitentiary at Port Arthur, apparently still haunted by its dead prisoners. Photograph: Auscape/UIG via Getty ImagesPort Arthur, TasmaniaYou’d be right in thinking an old penal colony would be the perfect place to hunt ghosts. From 1833, the most vicious criminal recidivists were transported to Port Arthur from Britain. A decade later, a panopticon-style prison – inspired by the writings of Jeremy Bentham – was built to house them, and its regime induced such despair that many prisoners committed murder in order to escape it by being sentenced to death. It followed the “Silent System” where prisoners were not allowed to talk, were held in solitary confinement, and had to wear hoods when in the company of other prisoners. The reportedly ghost-ridden building still stands, and does a brisk business in gruesome tours. York, UKThough London has its fair share of ghost stories – most famously around the Tower – and the ancient Ram Inn in the village of Wooten-under-Edge is supposedly the most haunted place in England, in 2002 the ancient city of York was named the most haunted metropolis in Europe. A wraith that used to haunt the Golden Fleece pub allegedly followed an American visitor home to tug at her hair every night. York is still home to such colourful spooks as Mad Alice, a rather unsympathetically nicknamed young woman who was executed in 1825 for “dangerous insanity”, and the Grey Lady, a medieval nun who had an affair with a handsome young local chap and was bricked up alive in a room that now forms part of the structure of the Theatre Royal. Sit in the dress circle, it is said, and she will tickle your neck. I don’t know about you, but I’ll take the stalls.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The creepy clown craze all started in Greenville. Photograph: Brendan Mcdermid/ReutersGreenville, South CarolinaIn mid-August, the people of this fast-growing, yuppie-friendly city heard disturbing rumours that a group of clowns had begun loitering in the woods near an apartment complex. The first alleged sighting was made by a little boy, who apparently saw two clowns: one sporting a red wig, the other a black star on his face. It was reported the clowns were attempting to lure him (and subsequently other children) into the woods with money. But Greenville’s deputy sheriff and his fellow officers were nonplussed: “Every time we have gone out there,” he said, “we have not seen any clowns.” It was, nonetheless, the start of an extraordinary global phenomenon that – despite widespread costume bans – means Halloween will be overrun by scary clowns this year.Follow Guardian Cities on Twitter and Facebook and join the discussionWhat are the scariest urban ghost stories you’ve heard? Share them in the comments below