Claire Thomson’s leftover spaghetti tortilla (main picture)For anyone who always makes too much pasta.Serves 44 eggs25g parmesan, gratedSalt and black pepper1-2 tbsp rosemary, sage or thyme250g leftover spaghetti (mixed with any leftover tomato pasta sauce: all the better)50g mozzarella, drained, sliced/gratedOlive oil, for frying1 Beat the eggs and parmesan together with a little seasoning. Chop and add the herbs and the leftover spaghetti.2 Heat a nonstick frying pan (mine measures 20cm across)until very hot, then heat the oil until it shimmers. Add half the egg and spaghetti mix to the very hot pan. Spoon it over for a few seconds as you might if making a thick omelette. Turn the heat down, shuffle the pan to spread and flatten the mix, then add the mozzarella evenly across the surface.3 Add the remaining egg and spaghetti mix over the mozzarella: make sure the underside doesn’t catch.4 When you are confident that the bottom of the tortilla is cooked adequately, cover the pan with a snugly fitting plate, then flip it over and tip the tortilla out. Return the pan to the hob, add a little extra olive oil and heat until it’s very hot once again. Tip the tortilla back into the pan to cook the reverse side. Lower the heat and cook through. It takes 8–12 minutes in total. Let it cool for 2 minutes, then serve.Oliver Rowe’s adaptable soupAdapt both base and key ingredients here according to what you have.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Soup is the ultimate culinary dustbin. Any vegetable trimmings can be used to make a bouillon, or stock. Photograph: Elena Heatherwick for the GuardianServes 44 tbsp oil, more for drizzling2 onions, diced ½ tsp fennel seeds 4 celery sticks, diced2 carrots, washed and diced4 garlic cloves, finely chopped1 potato, peeled and dicedStock or water3 bay leaves1 sprig rosemary, sage or thymeSalt and black pepperLeaves (watercress, rocket, spinach, other salad or herbs – wilted bits, stems and all)Any leftover veg (cooked cabbage, kale, sprouts, roasted butternut squash, beetroot, celeriac, jerusalem artichoke ... the list goes on)Any leftover cooked grains (rice, barley, couscous, quinoa)4 tbsp yoghurt, creme fraiche, sour cream, to serveA sprinkle of seeds or nuts, to serve1 Heat the oil in a large saucepan over a medium heat until it shimmers. Add the onion and fennel seeds and a good pinch of salt. Stir well and cook for 2 minutes. Add the celery and carrot. Cook until the vegetables soften and start to take on colour.2 Lower the heat, add the garlic and, 2 minutes later, the potato. Stir and cook for 1 minute or so, then just cover with stock or water. Add the herbs, season, bring to a boil, then reduce to a simmer. Cook until the potato crushes easily with the back of a spoon.3 Add the leftover veg, warm through, then blitz the soup (you may need to add more liquid for consistency – I often add a dash of milk here). Season well. If you are adding leftover grains, do so now. I leave it for a few minutes and come back to it for the final seasoning. Drizzle with oil, yoghurt and a scattering of nuts or seeds. Serve.Olia Hercules’ plachyndyThese Moldovan flatbreads were originally filled with sorrel, spring onions and dill, but any finely chopped leftovers would work.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   These flatbreads can either be pan-fried or cooked beneath the grill. Photograph: Elena Heatherwick for the GuardianMakes 4250ml kefir or buttermilk½ tbsp distilled vinegar½ tbsp sugar1 tsp salt300g plain flour, plus extra for dusting½ tsp bicarbonate of soda For the filling100g leftover veg/meat, finely choppedA small bunch of herbs, chopped2 eggs, lightly beaten4 tbsp sunflower oil, plus 100ml for frying1 Mix the kefir, vinegar, sugar and salt in a large bowl with a fork. Sift the flour with the soda into the kefir mixture and mix for a soft and pillowy dough.2 Tip out the dough on to a heavily floured work surface. Start kneading, incorporating more flour as needed. The dough should stop sticking to your hands, but it should also remain soft.3 Mix the leftovers and herbs together, then stir through the eggs. You can gently heat this mixture in a pan to help the egg coagulate, so it’s not too runny when you put it on the pastry.4 Divide the dough into quarters. Flour the surface well. Roll out each piece of dough, one by one, into a 20cm disc.5 Moisten the surface of the pastry with about 1 tbsp sunflower oil and spread equal quantities of the filling over the whole surface of each circle.6 For each flatbread, fold over the opposite sides to make a parcel. Then fold the parcel’s corners into the centre, creating a moneybag shape.7 Make sure all of the edges are firmly pinched inside, flour the top lightly and gently flatten with your hand.8 Heat the remaining 100ml of sunflower oil in a pan until hot and gently lower in each flatbread, one after the other. The first will take around 4 minutes per side but, as the oil heats up, this will lessen. You can also brush them with oil and cook them under your grill.Caroline Craig and Sophie Missing’s pan-fried yoghurt pizzaWhat can’t you shove atop a pizza?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The quick and easy dough for these pizzas only takes a few minutes to make. Photograph: Elena Heatherwick for the GuardianMakes 2 flatbreads160g self-raising flour150g Greek yoghurt¼ tsp ground cumin (optional)¼ tsp salt For the toppingPesto or tomato paste, to spreadAnything leftover in a jar or tin, especially stuff that needs using up (olives, artichokes, roasted red peppers, anchovies, etc)Any leftover veg, meat, cheese, sour cream, herbs, nuts1 Heat the oven to 200C/400F/gas mark 6. In a bowl, mix together the self-raising flour, yoghurt, cumin and salt. Knead to a dough firm enough to hold together. Split in two equal-sized portions, then roll each out into a thin (but not wafer-thin) disc large enough to fit in your nonstick frying pan.2 Heat the pan on a medium-high heat then add the rolled out dough. Cook for around 5 minutes on each side, making sure it doesn’t burn (turn down, if necessary). You can add a tiny splash of oil, if needed.3 Remove from the heat, and put on a large baking tray before adding your toppings of choice. Bake for 5-10 minutes until done.