The word “turnover”, which has until now applied to The Great British Bake Off only as a technical challenge, has become an instruction to its fans. The news that the show will pitch its tent at Channel 4 from next year has raised two main questions. Can it work on another channel? And how on earth did this happen?The question of how the show will look post-2017 became considerably more complex with the announcement that Mel Giedroyc and Sue Perkins will not be joining the big-money move to Channel 4, rolling out a typical bread-related pun about not “going with the dough”, which seemed to suggest that Love Productions (the independent company that invented and owns the show) was being greedy. Mel and Sue may have been influenced by the fact that a previous move from Channel 4 to ITV in 1999 stalled their career.Channel 4 and Love may bravely tell themselves that Mary Berry and Paul Hollywood are more crucial to the brand, and that is true. But signing up the expert duo becomes vital now – and the new presenters will of course shape attitudes to the Channel 4 launch, if the new quartet is perceived to be a petit four beside the original lineup. The show’s new home will also be acutely aware, from the BBC’s recent experience with Top Gear, of the instability of a format without its familiar faces.Some have suggested that ad-breaks at Channel 4 will ruin the experience. But the Bake Off format has already been adapted to many countries with commercial structures, and the BBC already uses little films about the histories of cakes and biscuits as internal breaks, which could be removed without much loss.Sue Perkins and Mel Giedroyc to leave Great British Bake Off Understandably, though, the fact that up to 13 million viewers will suddenly be told to change channel for their favourite show has caused oven-hot indignation on social media. Shock has been expressed at the BBC having so little control over the destiny of one of its brand-name programmes.But this is the way television has gone. Although the Sunday night stand-off between shows such as Poldark and Victoria is still conventionally seen as a fight between BBC and ITV, both were actually made by the same independent producer, Mammoth Screen. This trend – known as “publisher broadcasting” – was introduced to Britain with the launch of Channel 4 in 1982, but, encouraged by successive Conservative and Labour governments, has increasingly spread to ITV and now the BBC.Of the BBC1 trinity of hit autumn franchises – Bake Off, The Apprentice and Strictly Come Dancing – the only one wholly owned by the BBC is Strictly, a clever reboot of Come Dancing, which had run since the 1950s. The Apprentice is originally an American format, from which Donald Trump recently became the first TV presenter to take leave of absence to run for US president. Bake Off was invented by Love, which just secured a far better deal from Channel 4. The Voice has just moved from BBC1 to ITV in similar circumstances, although amid rather less dismay.The ownership of shows has not always been straightforward: the original Come Dancing was created by an external impresario, Miss World mogul Eric Morley, but he needed a TV company to make it. The rise of independent production has removed that barrier. And the BBC will only become less likely to own its hits under a stipulation in the current government white paper on the future of the BBC that almost 100% of its non-news output (rather than, as before, a minority) should be available for external commercial tender on a “compete and compare” basis that assesses commercial and cultural value.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The fact that 13 million fans will suddenly have to change channel for their favourite show has caused oven-hot indignation on social media. Photograph: Mark Bourdillon/BBC/Love ProductionsIn the case of Bake Off, the BBC has a reasonable case to feel that, having been loyal to the show, some might have been returned. And, although there is always difficulty in delineating the exact creative input between the company that makes a show and the network that screens it, Bake Off has reflected some crucial BBC values: one Reithian – Mary and Paul are, in a light way, educational about their skills – and one more recent, in the commendable diversity of the contestants.Those qualities, though, seem unlikely to be reduced at Channel 4, which remains a public service broadcaster. A more pressing issue, then, is whether the BBC’s structure discourages creativity. It often seems that the best and most original ideas – especially in entertainment – on the BBC have been brought by (and therefore have to be bought from) independent companies. The next director general needs to take a hard look at why this is the case.Great British Bake Off moves to Channel 4 as BBC negotiations collapse over fee Certainly a young upstart might conclude from the celebrity and lifestyle of major independent producers such as Burnett, Simon Cowell and Jan De Mol (Big Brother) that it is more rewarding to create and sell formats than make them in-house and share control, ownership and income. This means that if, as a BBC staff producer, you had an idea for a new show, the inescapable logic is that you should leave your job, set up an independent production company and then ask the BBC to buy it from you.Even more worrying is whether those on staff feel enough incentive to develop successful concepts. An independent producer who fails to come up with enough great ideas risks losing their job and their house; a senior BBC manager running an unproductive department is likely to be moved to new responsibilities at equivalent income or even, in some cases, be handed output from more industrious units.The BBC’s 19,000 staff base and generally benevolent employment practices are impressive from a moral and trade union perspective, but you don’t need to be a zealous free-marketeer to wonder whether, in a TV environment that is increasingly deregulated and international, the corporation’s structures ensure the best ideas get made at maximum value to the licence-payer. Next time a show sells like hot cakes, in the way that Bake Off has, it needs to be the BBC’s own. 