Name: John Sentamu.Job: Archbishop of York.Chief bugbear: Easter-egg hunts.I agree. Easter-egg hunts are terrible. The fast kids always end up with all the eggs. The eggs aren’t Sentamu’s beef. It’s the Easter part.Oh no. He has got wind of the fact that the National Trust has rebranded its hunts from “National Trust Easter Egg Trail Supported by Cadbury” to “The Cadbury Egg hunt at the National Trust”.That’s awful. The capitalisation is all over the place. More to the point, it neglects to mention Easter. According to Sentamu, this rampant secularisation goes against everything founder John Cadbury stood for. He said it’s “tantamount to spitting on the grave of Cadbury”.Theresa May condemns National Trust for axing 'Easter' from egg hunt That seems a bit harsh. Not at all! Sentamu loves any Quaker capitalist who happened to found a chocolate company. He calls John Cadbury, JS Fry and Joseph Rowntree the “trinity of chocolate”.What a weird fixation. Anyway, listen, the war on Easter is a real threat to this country’s values. It seems clear that this is a cynical ploy by a multinational corporation to undermine Christianity as we know it. Even Theresa May has called the rebrand “ridiculous”.What do Easter-egg hunts have to do with Christianity, anyway? They’re … they … Jesus died because … OK, wait, I just Wikipediaed it and it says that cracking open a chocolate egg is like that time they found Jesus’s empty tomb.I thought the egg tradition had roots in the Zoroastrian springtime celebration of Nowruz, as a universal symbol of life and fertility. No, it’s the tomb thing. It’s on Wikipedia. Look, Cadbury is trying to ban Easter by refusing to mention it.How do you know this? I looked it up on the Cadbury egg-hunt website.And what is the website address? It’s www … oh, actually, never mind.No, go on. Oh fine. It’s easter.cadbury.co.uk.And what does the website say? Well, I mean, if you want to be pedantic, it says “Enjoy Easter fun at the National Trust’”, plus the menu at the top includes links to both “Easter products” and an “Easter hunt”.So Cadbury isn’t erasing Easter at all? It is! John Sentamu said it is, and Theresa May said it is, so it definitely is! Look, I have to be outraged about something or I’ll die! Save Gibraltar! Bring back blue passports!Do say: “It’s irresponsible for Cadbury’s to erase the word ‘Easter’, even if it hasn’t.”Don’t say: “Coming soon: chocolate stigmata!”