The old-timerUS box office: Leonardo DiCaprio-led The Revenant challenges Star Wars It’s not news that Leonardo DiCaprio is a star. What is, is that he continues to be. Opening The Revenant – a dour and unrelenting frontier western – to a bracing $38m in the US demonstrates his ongoing pull. That’s almost what director Alejandro González Iñárritu’s previous film Birdman made in its entire North American run ($42m). All the juicy leaked titbits from The Revenant’s ordeal of a shoot, including the infamous bear-rape humdinger, can’t have hurt publicity-wise. But it would be remiss to discount the DiCaprio factor; this is his fourth biggest debut ever, behind Inception ($62m), The Great Gatsby ($51m) and Shutter Island ($42m). With proven old hands like Tom Cruise and Will Smith displaying wavering form these days, DiCaprio is perhaps the only A-lister stepping up to a similar longevity and consistency. The Revenant looks likely to be his 10th $100m US grosser – unusually, there isn’t a franchised film among them. That’s what sets him apart from the newer generation of stars, such as Jennifer Lawrence, who is currently struggling to float David O Russell’s Joy commercially and prove her independence from The Hunger Games.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Revenant review – gut-churningly brutal, beautiful storytelling But what’s so special about DiCaprio? Not only has he natural acting talent in more abundance than most major-league stars, he has managed it well. Titanic earned him a vast, screaming worldwide fanbase and commercial clout to match. But he cannily parlayed that into the right to work with virtually every mainstream directorial talent who took his fancy: Scorsese, Spielberg, Tarantino, Mendes, Nolan, Eastwood … This is how his raw and still-exciting screen presence has continued to be regularly showcased in big, successful and frequently agenda-setting projects (though, as is regularly remarked on, he has never won the best actor Oscar). What can be added to his now-maturing army of late-90s devotees is the general feeling that his name is a byword for substance and quality; maybe one of the last remaining links to the human wellspring of the star system that, in the age of CGI, appears to be running dry. It’s surely that magnetism that enabled The Revenant to open to an impressive $7.6m in Russia, among other markets, this weekend – an advance on Inception ($7m) and Django Unchained ($5.5m). Iñarritu’s film is now looking at $100m-plus in the States and has a shot at $300m worldwide, though you’d suspect it’s a little too uncompromising to canter up to The Great Gatsby ($351m) or Catch Me If You Can ($352.1m). $300m would be great for DiCaprio, but it’s a must for The Revenant, whose costs spiralled to an unfortunate $135m. The all-timer   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest So, Star Wars, where are we? $812m domestic – the No 1 US film of all time; $1.73bn worldwide – passing Jurassic World to become the No 3 film of all time. Given a strong but not outstanding $52.6m Chinese two-day debut this weekend, it now looks almost certain The Force Awakens won’t claim the overall crown. Which means it’s the first time that the all-time US box-office champ and the global one will be split between two different films; a sign of the rise of overseas markets in the 21st century, and the schism between American and foreign tastes that has opened up. Without wanting to diminish Disney’s achievements, it’s also important to recognise a couple of other caveats. Adjusted for inflation, The Force Awakens is still only the 15th highest US film, about to pass Avatar, but way behind the likes of the original Star Wars in terms of estimated ticket sales (94m to the 1977 film’s 178m). The global picture is even more difficult to pinpoint because of differing rates of ticket inflation around the world. The JJ Abrams film may sneak past Titanic’s unadjusted $2.2bn, but even a flat currency adjustment gives it no chance of passing either the latter or Avatar’s updated totals (both over $3bn). Displaying a fairly typical drop-off rate for most modern blockbusters (-54% in the US this weekend), it doesn’t, crucially, appear to be doing abnormal amounts of repeat business. Perhaps because, as a calculated reprisal of Episodes IV, V and VI, it is already itself repeat business. Titanic, the admissions high-water mark of the last 20 years, was something fresh and unprecedented; why it remained US No 1 unbroken between Christmas 1997 and March 1998.Mid-term reports   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Time to check in with everyone else out panhandling over the Christmas period. Will Ferrell and Mark Wahlberg’s second teamup, Daddy’s Home, opened very well in the States on the holiday weekend and is already clear of $100m there. But it’s still hobbled by the local bias on comedy, stacking up decently in Ferrell’s usual UK ($17m) and Australian ($10.8m) stomping grounds without showing much sign yet of breaking through decisively further afield. Pixar’s unloved The Good Dinosaur, still fifth on the global chart, is hanging in there longer than expected – but chalking up $266m worldwide on a $200m budget, it looks like a write-off for the animation house. Half the price, The Peanuts Movie looks like better business for Fox: holding in 14th with $221.4m worldwide, it’s registered significantly in a wide enough spread of territories (China, Spain, Mexico, Japan) to suggest that Snoopy’s future as a film franchise may be assured. The Point Break remake, running at $91m, is looking like another one of those raids on overseas markets (71%, currently) with enough vague ties to a more charming predecessor and flashy-looking new sequences to crawl over the profit-margin line. It probably won’t match B-movie overseas box-office despoilers like the Taken sequels, but with most major European markets still to open, it looks good for $200m. Bridge of Spies, arguably Spielberg’s strongest work for some time, is disappointingly registering at the lower end of his tally – the $151m worldwide take so far is his lowest since 2005’s Munich ($130.4m). Surprisingly, there was far more interest abroad for Lincoln’s ostensibly Yank-centric poring over the Emancipation Proclamation: the 2012 biopic slightly exceeded Bridge of Spies’ US takings, but made more than double further afield. At the bottom of Rentrak’s chart in 20th, Spectre continues to be good value nearly two months after release: in no danger, on $872.1m, of bothering the eminent Skyfall, but second among Bonds, in the finance department at least.Beyond Hollywood   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Very little going on, with local Chinese film-makers normally good for a few chart entries feeling the Force this week. Italian workshy-bureaucrat comedy Quo Vado?, with $52m cumulative, continues to close the gap on the country’s all-time record held by Avatar ($71.5m). In 13th on the global chart, BBC holiday special Sherlock: The Abominable Bride, getting a highly unusual not-only-theatrical-but-also-international release, is now up to $28m – $20m of it Chinese. Deerstalker sales in Beijing no doubt on the rise, and probably BBC bookings into local Hilton suites, too.The future   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The epic quest for credibility continues. Michael Bay – in the same way he tried to prevent Bad Boys-esque brawn from bursting through the seams of his 2013 American Dream satire Pain and Gain – will manfully struggle to keep new Libyan embassy flick 13 Hours: The Secret Soldiers of Benghazi within the bounds of “edgy contemporary thriller”. A $50m budget, Skid Row stuff by Bay standards, should keep him away from the giant robots. It opens in the US and 10 other countries. Elsewhere, Creed has a big weekend, hoping to build on its status as a fleet-of-foot $100m US hit by making friends in 15 new territories across western Europe and the former eastern bloc. Shame they couldn’t have squeezed in the son of Ivan Drago, too.Top 10 global box office, 8-10 January1. Star Wars: The Force Awakens, $145.9m from approximately 75 territories. $1.73bn cumulative – 53.2% international; 46.8% US2. (New) The Revenant, $58.2m from 11 territories. $59.8m cum – 33.8% int; 66.2% US3. Daddy’s Home, $25.2m from 31 territories. $154.2m cum – 24.6% int; 75.4% US4. The Hateful Eight, $18.4m from 14 territories. $54m cum – 23.2% int; 76.8% US5. The Good Dinosaur, $13.6m from 61 territories. $266m cum – 55.9% int; 44.1% US6. (New) The Forest, $13.5m from 5 territories – 3.3% int; 96.7% US7. Joy, $12m from 46 territories. $70.7m cum – 34.1% int; 65.9% US8. Detective Chinatown, $11.8m from 2 territories. $93m cum – 100% int9. Quo Vado?, $11.5m from 1 territory. $52m cum – 100% int10. Alvin and the Chipmunks: The Road Chip, $11.3m from 25 territories. $111.8m cum – 32.4% int; 67.6% US• Thanks to Rentrak. This week’s figures are based on estimates; all historical figures unadjusted, unless otherwise stated.