In the 1970s, Australia was rather cut off. I’d always wanted to live abroad, so I moved to Rome and then London. I was an art historian, but started studying photography part-time. I was interested in the demi-monde culture and began mixing in all sorts of circles.Jasper was a rather wonderful character. He was from Sydney, but he was living downstairs from me in Ladbroke Grove, in a flat rented to some gay friends. It was fairly eclectic. Jasper was always playing around with clothes and makeup. If he was looking particularly wonderful, I might get out my lights and take a shot. Or he might put makeup on me. He wasn’t always in drag, but he was permanently in diva mode, dependably louche, funny and naughty. I think all that comes across in the image. He was actually a very delicate person, though, beneath the wit and flamboyance.Jasper floated through London all too briefly. His real name was Peter MacMahon, but to us he was only ever Jasper Havoc, an alter ego he’d created while part of a transvestite troupe called Sylvia and the Synthetics. They were legendary in Sydney gay culture.On this day, we’d been taking some pictures inside and had gone out into the streets to fool around some more. Jasper was wearing a corset and fishnets ensemble, with other bits and pieces, and we joked about him being trashy as he lay in the skip. We just took the shot for ourselves. It wasn’t done with any publication in mind, or anything else. This was way before the internet and people didn’t share images. If you dressed up, it was just for that moment. The area was bohemian and rundown – and Jasper in that skip encapsulated it We used to have an active social life, but it was mostly arranged by word of mouth. You could use a landline or a public phone, or you could just leave it, knowing everyone would gravitate to a certain pub or club. The city had an edge. That part of London was nothing like it is now. The area was bohemian, rundown – and Jasper in the skip just seemed to encapsulate it all.On Sunday mornings, we’d all go to Portobello Road. It was so different back then: a real junk and antiques market, slightly ramshackle, and there would be performances under the motorway flyover. All sorts of odd things would happen and then we’d head back for a late-afternoon tea party.A few years after this photo was taken, I heard that Jasper had died in a fire in a house in Sydney. I was shocked and saddened, but it didn’t seem totally out of keeping. He had an almost doomed Hollywood glamour.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Peter Gordon-StablesJane England’s CVBorn: Melbourne, Australia.Education: Melbourne University (Art History), Sir John Cass School of Art (Photography)Influences: Diane Arbus, Guy Bourdin, Man Ray and Brassai.High point: “Aaron Scharf including my works in a photography show at the Serpentine.”Low point: “The loss of some good friends who died far too young.”Top tip: “Stay curious.”• Jane England’s book Turn and Face the Strange is published by Black Dog.