To my mind spring drinking is all about optimism: as the days slowly, almost imperceptibly, become longer and flowers start to bud and bloom, you want to cast off the dark beers, red wines and unctuous brown spirits for a drink that feels as fresh and new as the season itself.1. A better spritzFuture cocktail historians may well date peak Aperol spritz to the summer of 2015-16. The drink has become so trendy in Australia it has been made with Moët, not prosecco, at the spring races – a tragic betrayal of the drink’s demotic nature.Make your own aperol spritz Of course, this spritz fever is understandable. It’s hard to shake a taste for the spritz once it has been acquired – just ask the Venetians, who have been putting them away for almost a century. But just because the Aperol spritz is halfway to becoming the pumpkin spice latte of the cocktail world doesn’t mean you can’t enjoy a cheeky spritz or two this spring: just swap out the Aperol for another Italian aperitivo bitter. Select, the Venetian bitter that claims to be the original spritz base, makes an excellent spritz: dryer than Aperol with a hint of extra bitterness and a whisper of ginger on the palate. The wine-based Cappelletti gives a rounder, smoother spritz, and Amaro Montenegro makes a spritz loaded with tempting citrus and rosewater aromas. For varsity-level spritz variations, pick up a copy of Talia Baiocchi and Leslie Pariseau’s book Spritz: Italy’s Most Iconic Aperitivo Cocktail, which features more spritz twists than you might ever have thought possible – including a frankly incredible mai tai spritz from Martin Cate, the man behind the acclaimed San Francisco rum bar Smuggler’s Cove.Make it at home: spritz Veneziano60ml aperitivo bitter of your choice (Select, Campari, Cappelletti, etc)90ml prosecco30ml sparkling waterBuild all ingredients in a tumbler or wine glass. Add ice. Garnish with green olives on a skewer and a slice of orange.Pair with a movie: Bread and Tulips, directed by Silvio Soldini2. White vermouthIf you’ve been mainlining single malts (Scottish, Japanese or otherwise) over the winter, your liver could probably do with a break from big, boozy drinks. If you’re not already aboard the vermouth train, now’s the perfect time to get on: a sweet white or “blanc” vermouth with its low-ABV balance of sweetness and bitterness just begs to be consumed on the balcony in the first warm evenings of the season.Just pour a nice slug of it (60ml or so) over ice, add a slice of orange and a splash of soda to taste, and enjoy. If you’re after something a little more fancy, try it in the classic Cuban cocktail el presidente, below. Tip: At the bottle shop, make sure you’re getting a sweet white rather than a dry vermouth – it’s easy to mix up the two. Casa Mariol’s vermut blanco, Dolin’s blanc vermouth and Regal Rogue’s bianco vermouth are all worth seeking out.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   El presidente (left) sits with its compatriate Cuban cocktail, the mulata. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoMake it at home: el presidente60ml sweet white vermouth30ml full-flavoured white rum (Havana Club or Plantation)5ml (one bar spoon) curaçao or triple sec2.5ml (one half bar spoon) grenadineA dash of Angostura bittersBuild all ingredients in a mixing glass. Add ice, stir and strain into a chilled cocktail coupe. Express the oils from a twist of orange peel over the drink, then place in the drink to garnish.Pair with an album: Tropical Discotheque by Sofrito3. White portIf you’ve acquired a taste for port over the colder months, you don’t need to bid it farewell at the approach of warmer weather: just switch from red to white. White port (the proper Portuguese kind, that is) has to be one of the most misunderstood products out there, which is a pity because it’s tremendously delicious, with loads of nectarine, apricot and lemon blossom on the palate, and is very easy to drink. To bring a slice of Portuguese sunshine into your life, try a good splash of a young, dryish white port (again, 60ml or so) with tonic water over ice and a slice of lemon.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘A slice of Portuguese sunshine’: a portonic with a side of salted almonds. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoMake it at home: portonic60ml dry or off-dry white port (the proper Portuguese stuff)100–150ml quality tonic water (Fever-Tree, Capi Dry Tonic, or similar)Build in a tall glass and add ice. Garnish with a nice fat slice of lemon.Pair with a novel: A Small Death in Lisbon by Robert Wilson4. Spanish cavaWhile we’re on the subject of unfairly neglected drinks, the emergence of Italian prosecco as a market force (sales of it overtook French champagne for the first time in England last year) has seen Spanish cava languishing here in Australia. This is a shame, because a well-made cava – particularly one made from the traditional Catalonian grape varieties macabeu, parellada and xarel·lo – can be a delight: as dry as champagne without the French stuff’s sometimes overbearing acidity, with a funk and complexity from resting on its lees that most Italian proseccos can’t match (excluding the trendy col fondo style). The irresistible charm of prosecco I adore Celler de Can Suriol’s brut nature, with its brioche notes and hint of funk from wild yeasts, and Vallformosa’s MVSA brut, which is loaded with crisp white apple and and straw characteristics. The best thing to do with it is to pop it open and drink it straight – but if you want to mix it up, try it in Alexandra Raij’s original cocktail the Montserrat.Make it at home: the Montserrat30ml Aperol30ml sweet red vermouth (preferably Casa Mariol)Cava, to topBuild Aperol and vermouth in shaker. Add ice and shake to chill. Double strain into a chilled cocktail coupe. Top with cava. Garnish with a green olive and a brandied kumquat, if you have one to hand.Pair with a movie: Todo Sobre Mi Madre (All About My Mother), directed by Pedro Almodóvar5. Russian spring punchWhatever style of bubbly wine you prefer, for an easy crowdpleaser mix it up with some vodka, lemon juice, crème de cassis and sugar to make a Russian spring punch.Created by the late and very great bartender Dick Bradsell (who was also responsible for the espresso martini, the bramble and the treacle), it was originally served as a BYO proposition: guests arrived to discover a flute preloaded with vodka, cassis, lemon juice and sugar, to which they could add their own sparkling wine. As Bradsell recalled: “People got to drink their whole bottle of champagne and however many shots of vodka they felt they could manage. It was lethal, that thing.” If you don’t want your guests preparing their own deaths, it’s more sensible to mix it up in individual portions. Then raise your glass not only in memory of Bradsell but also to welcome the return of warm weather and long evenings.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Easy crowdpleaser: a Russian spring punch. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoMake it at home: Russian spring punch30ml vodka 15ml lemon juice7.5ml crème de cassis (a good one makes all the difference)10ml simple syrupDry sparkling wine, to topBuild all but the sparkling wine in shaker. Add ice, shake to chill, and double strain into a collins glass filled with ice. Top with whatever sparkling wine is going. Garnish liberally with fresh raspberries, blackberries, lemon slices and so on.Pair with a novel: To the Hermitage, by Malcolm Bradbury