They are meant to provide financial support to people whose spouse or civil partner has died. But a shake-up of the system which handles benefits for bereaved families has resulted in accusations that working parents will be deprived of £12,000 each.The government revealed earlier this month how the current system of bereavement support payments will change in April in order, it says, to modernise the structures. But it has provoked a barrage of opposition and criticisms that many parents who are widowed after 5 April will be far worse off. The drop in income these families will suffer means many parents will be forced to increase their working hours while their children are still trying to cope with their loss, bereavement charities predict.Under the current system, when a spouse or civil partner dies there is a £2,000 tax-free sum called the Bereavement Payment. For those with children there is the Widowed Parent’s Allowance, a taxable benefit of up to £487.71 a month (£5,852 a year). This is paid until either the youngest child in the household no longer qualifies for child benefit (a maximum of 20 years), or the widowed parent moves in with a new partner, or reaches state pension age.For those who are between 45 and pension age without dependant children there is the Bereavement Allowance, a taxable benefit of up to £112.55 a week paid for 52 weeks. All these payments are based on the national insurance record of the dead spouse – in effect their pension, says Georgia Elms of the charity WAY (Widowed and Young).How do you tell a child his mother is dying? The changed system, however, will mean that if a spouse or civil partner dies after 5 April there will be a tax-free lump sum of £2,500 if there are no children, or £3,500 if there are. There is then a monthly tax-free payment of £100 if you don’t have children and £350 if you do, for 18 months, regardless of your age or whether or not you marry or move in with a new partner. The new benefits will not automatically rise in line with inflation, unlike payments given under the current system.The changes offer more support for childless widows and widowers, especially those under 45 who may receive up to an extra £2,300 tax-free. Widowed parents with young children will be the hardest hit, with the maximum payout period cut from 20 years to just 18 months. The changes also mean that these bereaved parents will be eligible for an extra £1,500 as a tax-free lump sum, but will lose out on up to £2,478 in benefits payments (which would have been taxed) over the following 18 months, before the payments stop entirely.Research by the Childhood Bereavement Network (CBN) suggests 91% of widowed parents will be supported for a shorter period of time than they would under the current system, which can pay out until the youngest child leaves school. It says the typical working family will lose out on more than £12,000, and expects a working parent with young children to lose even more – £23,500 on average.“We are really worried about these changes,” says spokeswoman Alison Penny. “We fear for the stress this will place on parents trying to support their grieving children.” The charity predicts widowed parents may need to increase their working hours before their children are actually ready for their parent to be less available. It expects this additional strain on families will have a significant negative impact on children’s lives, resulting in worse mental health and educational outcomes.The government also confirmed that cohabiting unmarried couples, including those with children, will continue to be ineligible for any bereavement benefits – despite recommendations last year by the work and pensions select committee to extend eligibility to these families, as the current approach “unfairly penalises the bereaved children of cohabitees”.Carol Reah, a widow, said the allowances she received were vital to managing after the death of her husband. “Because of it, I have been able to work around my son’s school hours – I was widowed when my son was seven. Even after five years he still needs support. He gets, as he calls it, ‘Dad sad’.”The Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) has calculated its reforms will save the government £40m a year from 2020. “The old system, introduced more than 90 years ago, was based on the outdated assumption that a widowed parent relied on their spouse for income, and would never work themselves. This doesn’t reflect people’s lives today,” a spokesperson says. We fear for the stress the changes will place on parents trying to support their grieving childrenAlison Penny, CBN charity “The new Bereavement Support Payment restores fairness to the system and focuses support during the 18-month period after a loved one dies, when they need it the most. It will be easier to claim, won’t be taxed and will be subject to a disregard for benefit claims, helping those on the lowest incomes the most.”Those opposed to the changes, however, say that they work to enforce unfairness. “I don’t think it’s fair that a six-year-old whose dad died in 2016 will be supported until she leaves school, but a six-year-old whose dad dies in 2018 will be supported for only 18 months,” says Penny. “Nor do I think it’s fair that children whose parents weren’t married still won’t benefit from the new system.”Latest figures from the Office for National Statistics show that in 2016, 21% of couples with children are not married. Heather Kennedy, spokesperson for charity Fair Funerals, says: “The government’s decision to deny cohabiting parents the Widowed Parent’s Allowance is completely unacceptable in the 21st century. Why should children who have lost a parent be denied this financial lifeline just because their parents chose not to marry?”In 2015, the Social Security Advisory Committee, the independent statutory body set up to provide the DWP with impartial advice, informed the department that its approach to this issue is incompatible with the definition of “family” adopted by the government in the Family Test.A DWP spokesperson says: “Allowing the surviving members of cohabiting couples to have access to bereavement benefits would significantly increase complexity and require proof of cohabitation, which could be both difficult and intrusive for the bereaved person to establish.”But this is not the position the department takes towards other benefits. “It seems odd to treat cohabiting partners as a couple for means-tested benefits or tax credits when they are both alive, but then refuse to recognise the significance of their relationship when one of them dies,” says Penny.She also points out that many administrative processes around a death could be viewed as intrusive but are recognised as being necessary. “It seems unlikely that families would find making a claim for bereavement benefits any different, particularly if it was going to make a significant financial difference to the family.”‘I don’t know if I’d have coped without it’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Andrew Ware, whose wife Jane died around three years ago, with his children Katie and Thomas. Photograph: Sonja Horsman for the ObserverIt is just over three years since music teacher Andrew Ware, 45, was widowed, leaving him to look after his daughter Katie, 13, and son Thomas, 10. Receiving an allowance to help him after the death of his wife Jane was vital, he says.“At first I tried to carry on working full-time. I realise now I was in shock,” he says. “I wasn’t coping with my own grief, never mind that of my children. Eventually I realised I couldn’t carry on that way. All I wanted to do was scream at the world ‘please let me grieve’.”A friend mentioned the benefits available. “I never even knew they existed. The money, which is based on Jane’s 22 years of national insurance contributions and credits, means I’ve been able to cut down to three days a week. I do practical things like housework and cooking on my days off, so I can be there for the kids when they get home from school. But I also take some time to look after myself. That’s important - it’s gradually made me feel more resilient and able to cope.“It took me about three years to get back on my feet. The second year was actually more of a struggle. I felt so lost, like I was missing my purpose in life. If my bereavement payments had stopped after 18 months I don’t know what I would have done. The money has been essential for my mental health and important for my children. They still miss their mum, but the extra time I’ve been able to spend with them has made a huge difference.”Making plansThe death of a partner is something many people will struggle with emotionally, but also financially, writes Shane Hickey. A survey from life insurers Royal London found that over two-thirds of people who had lost their partner over the previous five years were practically unprepared for the monetary loss.The financial after-effects of a death can be harrowing, according to the study. One in five people said the impact of having a lower income was the most difficult element to deal with.This was borne out last year in research carried out for The Observer by Co-op Legal Services, which showed that almost half of people had not made a will, with some people saying they simply did not want to think about death.“Having the ‘big conversation’ is an important first step to getting our plans in place,” says Claire Henry of the National Council for Palliative Care. “We never really stop grieving, but that doesn’t mean we should have to suffer the financial consequences for years as well.”