Last week, my aunt got a phone call from my mum. “I’m destitute,” she said. “I have to sell my house as soon as possible or I’ll be left with nothing.” This came as no surprise.My mum’s spending habits have been a cause of family concern for years – a source of tension, worry and, eventually, the elephant in the room that none of us had the energy to tackle head-on. Her financial situation is probably quite common. And I am certain some of you reading this will recognise yourselves in her story.Mum is an intelligent woman with a university degree, who worked in a profession that brought in a very good salary for more than 30 years. My childhood was comfortable. We lived in a nice house in the country, ate out a lot, went shopping on Saturdays and bought things without hesitation. I certainly never had any suspicion that we were anything other than financially secure. Now, though, my mum’s financial CV makes a shocking read.She has no real assets. Any equity in her house has been borrowed against several times and, because her current job is part-time and doesn’t pay very much, lenders have refused to extend her mortgage. She has to sell her house within the next few weeks, but will only have a very small amount of equity left to buy another. Her options are limited and depressing. She has no pension.Over the years, I have made excuses for each of her financial missteps. She was a single parent, which no doubt put her under immense pressure and she could not have predicted or prepared for the recession. She also made some investments that went badly wrong – again, something she could not have predicted. But in recent years, as I have managed my own finances, I have examined the situation with a little more cynicism, largely because my spending habits are so similar to hers. And that terrifies me.Mum took a career break in her 50s for health reasons, and I fully supported her finding a job that came with less stress. But while a sensible person would understand that a reduction in income means outgoings have to decrease too, I don’t think this occurred to Mum. I think she recognised it on some level – a level once removed – but couldn’t see how it would apply practically to her life.To this day, she buys the most expensive dog food there is, and regularly splashes out on costly haircuts. Because she has always done these things; they are as commonplace and basic to her as having a shower in the morning.The thing is, I want her to have those things. I know they make her feel human and normal. I appreciate the huge wrench it would be to give them up. And I can see how sacrificing them would be such an emotional price to pay, that she just … doesn’t.Luckily, I am also able to grasp how unbelievably misguided her approach is. But, in all honesty, without my mum as a cautionary tale, I could see myself repeating the same patterns.Here are just some of the ways my financial genes manifest themselves:There are certain things I don’t automatically associate with costing money – heating, for, example. Keeping my home at a constant ambient temperature is something I am used to and expect. “Spoilt!”, I hear you cry, and you would be absolutely right.Then there is the fact that I manage to justify spending in my head. I can turn any purchase from a frivolity into a necessity. New shoes – we all need shoes. An expensive present for a friend – I want to show them how special they are.I once watched my mother buy three winter coats in one go. “I need different colours and styles for work,” she said, making it sound so sensible.To me, money equals convenience. I rarely spend time looking for a better or cheaper deal – after all, money is affording me the luxury of saving time.Like Mum, I don’t want to be reminded of my frivolity. I’m not in debt, but I am guilty of putting a “naughty” purchase on my credit card, so I get all the pleasure of the new item without the visual reminder of a depleted current account.“I didn’t realise just how bad things were,” my mum told my aunt during their phone call. Which leads me to believe she has been hiding her debts from herself, too.When I do manage to save, it feels nice to see the amount in my savings account increasing. But when I have to dip into it – for a car repair or unexpected bill – the upward struggle of saving suddenly seems pointless. So I’ll spend a little more, get the bug again and the numbers quickly start to snowball.Last year, when Mum’s financial situation must already have been dire, she spent thousands of pounds on the house. Admittedly, it is nice, but had she shopped around, she could have achieved the effects for half the price. She didn’t tell me until after the work was complete, correctly predicting I would have been furious.Later, she justified the spending by saying it would add value to the house. Incorrect, according to the local estate agent. In fact, it makes the house a less attractive proposition for developers.Ultimately, she wanted to make the changes and was able to rationalise it.It is easy to see how attitudes to money are passed down through generations. They are like any other attitude or habit. I don’t remember ever having a conversation about saving money when I was younger. In fact, the concept of showing a bit of self-control to reap financial reward in the future has only been hammered home to me in recent years by my husband. And, by God, it has taken a lot of hammering.As well as nurture, nature has its part to play too. A recent scientific study revealed that our spending and saving habits do come from our parents. Twins who grew up separately showed identical patterns of spending and saving, and while social and environmental factors do influence how we treat money, this influence declines over time. Apparently by the age of 40, it is all down to genetics. Hopefully, I have enough time to break my spending habits and rewire my financial brain.Seeing my mum so reduced, so diminished, not just financially but mentally, is heartbreaking. Worst of all, we don’t talk about it. There is so much shame and anger attached.I am angry that Mum didn’t heed warnings or accept the help that has been offered – numerous times. And because I know that until she takes responsibility, no new pattern can emerge, maybe there is worse to come.And Mum is angry because she has nothing to show for her efforts. The sum total of her life, of her living, is so small. She still can’t quite understand how she has got to the place she is in. Or why.The instant gratification of her spending has always been fleeting; she probably doesn’t even know where all the money went. It just did, like some magic trick that leaves you scratching your head.I often think, if I just won a few thousand pounds, that would fix everything. But that’s how I know that I still have a long way to go in my battle against my repeating my financial heritage. The reality is that a wedge of money might paper over some cracks, but, like a gas filling the space it is in, I would spend what I had and the same problems would crop up.It will be a continued struggle to keep my attitude to money in the black, but I am determined to do it. After all, I have seen first hand that financial security is priceless.Some details have been changed