In March 2016 we launched the Jacqueline Wilson creative writing competition. Seven to 12-year-olds were asked to write a short story, and the winner would be published in Jacqueline Wilson’s new book, Clover Moon. A judging panel including Jacqueline Wilson herself had to choose just one winner from the 4000 stories entered for the competition, which was set up by Jacqueline Wilson’s publisher Penguin Random House with support from WH Smiths and the Guardian children’s books website. Enter Jacqueline Wilson's creative writing competition Today we announce the winner and publish the winning story! So… drumroll… deepest congratulations to 11-year-old Emily Weston from Rochester in Kent, for her incredible story The Last Sign.Jacqueline Wilson said “I was so pleased to hear that the creative writing prize has been so popular. It’s wonderful to think that there are so many children who still enjoy writing stories just as I did when I was young. There was such a variety of topics submitted and it is clear that the imagination of today’s children is as vivid as ever it was. It was very tough to select just one winner but Emily’s story stood out because of its use of language and originality and I am so looking forward to seeing it in print in Clover Moon”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jacqueline Wilson: it was very tough to select just one winner but Emily’s story stood out because of its use of language and originality. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianEmily Weston told us: “I was so shocked but incredibly proud when I discovered the amazing news. I feel honoured to have my story published in Jacqueline Wilson’s new book. It just doesn’t seem real and I keep thinking I’m having the most amazing dream! I love writing stories and we also went to see Hetty Feather the musical and I loved the stage design with the circus theme. I liked writing my story and hope it inspires others to pick up a pen and see where their imagination takes them.”Now, for the first time, you can read the winning story:Jacqueline Wilson: I didn’t ever think I’d manage to write 100 books The Last Sign by Emily WestonThe midday sun shone brightly through the large window, its warm glow bathing me in a glorious ribbon of colours. I loved days like these; they made me think of my youth!During those wild and carefree years, I had been a daredevil! More than once my parents had rescued me from certain death thanks to my latest adventure! I suppose it was inevitable, with my natural gymnastic flair, that I would join a circus. I became a celebrated trapeze artist, known for my unique stunts. I could almost hear the echoes of applause from the audience now. The sensation of the breeze blowing around me as I swung high in the big top had been exhilarating. Heights had never concerned me; instead I was always the first to volunteer for new, perilous routines. My parents were naturally anxious but I was so incredibly keen that I just wouldn’t heed their shrieks of disapproval. Needless to say, they were right! The circus I joined wasn’t the magical, fun place I imagined. It was instead a relentless money making machine! It all seemed so very long ago now. My legs felt restless so I padded slowly over to the window. A soft tap at my window startled me; I smiled as a little girl stared in. Her cheeks are red, they matched her beautiful red hair. Her mother scolded her for tapping on the glass. I attempted to gesture that it is no problem and smile. They moved along, no doubt having much to see and do today.Every day is the same. Outside is so busy, everyone rushing around in a hurry to get to the next place! Jacqueline Wilson for Guardian children's books podcast: 'This is a story competition about your imagination' My partner, Wilbur, passed away recently. Wilbur was the most amazing company to me; we had been together for nearly fifty years. He had such an incredible laugh; as unusual as it was contagious. I closed my eyes, practically feeling his soft, warm arms around me. His whiskery cheek seemed to nuzzle against mine.Tired from the short walk to the window I gently lowered myself to a sitting position and enjoyed the rays of sunshine on my face.My daydream was interrupted by my carer Derek’s voice. He is one of three carers who look after me. Derek is my favourite because of his incredible spirit. Nothing ever seems to upset or shake him. He is a huge towering man but has many childlike qualities about him.Derek squatted down next to me, his expression sombre and anxious. “Now come on, my special girl. Why didn’t you eat your breakfast?” Turning tentatively, I stare into Derek’s warm brown eyes as I gently shake my head.Mustering all my strength, I put my left hand in his. My latest in a series of strokes has made communication so frustrating. Luckily Derek devised a simple and effective sign language system for us to use. I traced a sign meaning “Goodbye” onto his palm. Derek’s eyes are filled with tears as I manage to focus on his face for one last time.I felt myself drifting away but I am neither frightened nor sad. Instead I am excited and full of energy. The scent of my homeland wafted around me, sounds filling my ears from the village nearby and the surrounding forest too. I can almost touch the soft grass and feel the mossy undergrowth. How I used to run for hours with my siblings through this very spot. Our own special playground.A familiar, shimmering shadow fell across me and it was no longer Derek holding my hand, instead my beloved Wilbur was by my side. His expression saying everything that words could not. My eyes stung with tears of happiness as he lovingly whisked me up into his arms. My heart was beating so rapidly, pounding like the thundering drums in the village. Moving quickly, Derek pulled the heavy, black curtains across the window. The last thing he needed was distraught bystanders. Picking up the receiver of his staff walkie-talkie, Derek pressed nine-one-two (the emergency code) and waited for Stacey in the office to answer. “What’s up, Derek?” Stacey answered immediately, her tone anxious and alert. “It’s Elsie. She lost consciousness exactly thirty seconds ago.” His voice sounded thick with emotion as he checked his watch. His heart felt tight and heavy in his chest. “Oh no, roger that. Stay put Derek. The team are being scrambled right now.” Stacey’s voice crackled with emotion through the speaker. Derek looked down at Elsie, thinking how serene and peaceful she looked. His tears were falling fast now and blurring everything around him.Suddenly the door behind him swung open as the medical team burst in. “Ok Derek, I know already but procedure being what it is…” began Dr Peterson.Swallowing hard Derek steadied his voice, “Female Chimpanzee, age 55, no pulse...”We hope you enjoyed reading Emily’s wonderful story. Did you guess twist at the end? Emily Weston is obviously a name to watch out for in the future! Emily’s winning story will be published in an exclusive edition of Jacqueline Wilson’s new hardback Clover Moon, which will publish on 6 October 2016 and be on sale in WH Smith stores nationwide.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 