It sounds like an actor’s fantasy, crossed with the worst kind of anxiety dream: the phone goes and it’s a West End producer on the line. Romeo is injured, so is the understudy – can you go on the following night?In July, that is exactly what happened to 27-year-old Freddie Fox. Having anticipated a calmish week or two, bracketed by a film project and a short run of A Midsummer Night’s Dream at Southwark Playhouse in London, Fox had to go into crash-preparation mode to play the lead opposite Lily James’s Juliet for the Kenneth Branagh Company. He pulls a face. “It was a Friday and they wanted me on Saturday. We compromised on the following Tuesday.”Fox hastens to add that the reason the phone went is that, technically, he knew the part, having played Romeo last autumn at the Crucible in Sheffield. “But that was 10 months ago. Very weirdly it was still in my brain, especially as the version of the text was different. The first night was a bit of a memory test, making sure I stood in the right places and didn’t fall off the stage, but I got better, I hope.” When I remark that he seems impressively sanguine, he chews his omelette thoughtfully. “It was rather like ice skating. But exciting.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Judas Kiss, with Rupert Everett as Oscar and Freddie Fox as Bosie. Photograph: Geraint Lewis/Rex FeaturesFor his next trick, Fox has weeks to prepare rather than hours, but the project is arguably every bit as daunting. Tom Stoppard’s 1974 play Travesties hasn’t been seen in London for over two decades. As fizzingly intellectual as anything the playwright has written, it weaves together a fictionalised meeting between Vladimir Lenin, James Joyce and the writer Tristan Tzara, in Zurich in 1917. Adding to the pyrotechnics are high-concept skits on Oscar Wilde’s The Importance of Being Earnest and philosophical ruminations on the revolutionary nature of culture. The new production – directed by Patrick Marber, with Tom Hollander appearing as the terminally unreliable narrator Henry Carr – is so hotly anticipated it has sold out before it has even opened. (Rumours are, it may have some form of future life.)‘It’s like ice skating. But exciting’Fox plays the Romanian–French Tzara, who was a founding figure of dadaism, hopping energetically between poetry and visual art, and who knew many major artists. Brilliant and voluble, Tzara is so quintessentially Stoppardian that if he hadn’t actually existed, the playwright would have had to invent him, I suggest. Fox agrees: “He’s quite razzamatazz, which Tzara by all accounts was. People can get a bit intimidated by Travesties when you describe it, but the play is so effervescent. Rehearsing it is as close to a musical as any straight play I’ve done. It feels like candyfloss being whipped up, it really does.”Has Stoppard been in the room? “Oh yeah, it’s been great. That Patrick is a writer too helps, I think. There’s a lot of respect there. In Tom’s words,” – Fox slides into an impeccable Stoppardian Mitteleuropean accent – “it’s not a real world, and when you start to ask me real-world questions about the play I start to worry.” He reverts to his regular drawl. “You can’t sink too deep, otherwise you miss the point.”With his insouciant confidence, sun-kissed locks and impressive bone structure, it’s not hard to see how Fox got the job of the cross-dressing Peter/Marilyn in Worried about the Boy, a TV biopic of Boy George, nor how he went on to play a brazen Lord Alfred Douglas to Rupert Everett’s Oscar Wilde on stage in The Judas Kiss. But that would be to underestimate his range. He brought a palpable whiff of brimstone to the sexually voracious Freddie Baxter in Russell T Davies’s 2015 series Cucumber–Banana–Tofu, not to mention a fine pass at a Didsbury accent (that the character was also called Freddie was pure happenstance, he insists: “Russell based him on someone he’d known years ago”).       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Freddie Fox as Freddie, Vincent Franklin as Henry and Con O’Neill as Cliff in Cucumber by Russell T Davies. Photograph: Ben BlackallThe actors he most admires are those who keep changing what they do, Fox reflects. “I went to see Al Pacino in conversation once, and he said,” – this time he segues into Pacino – “‘If I knew who I was, I wouldn’t be an actor.’ It sounds a bit affected when you say it like that, but I knew what he meant.”The surname can’t have hurt, of course: son of Edward Fox and Joanna David, his sister is Emilia and his uncle is James. The young Freddie was obsessed by film photography and hung around on various sets (courtesy of a family friend), but realised in his teens that acting was what he wanted to do. Some performers tell their offspring that the last thing they should do is enter the family business: did he ever got any of that? “They never said don’t. That’d be unwise; as a child, you’d only want to do it more. But they were very diligent in apprising me about the options.”How does he deal with the accusation that British theatre and TV are overly in awe of posh boys with nice vowels somewhat similar – not to put too fine a point on it – to himself? He is gamely unfazed by the question. “It is what it is. I can neither change people’s perceptions nor change my background, and nor would I wish to. All I want from my career at this point is to make enough money to live and to save a bit, and to play as many diverse characters as I possibly can. If people think, ‘Well, he’s posh, but he’s a good actor,’ that’s fine.”One thing his background does seem to have given him is an enviably level-headed view of fame. “There’ll probably be moments in my life where it seems that people will want to camp out on my doorstep, and moments when no one wants to hire me and couldn’t be less interested. I’ve been around the circus, and it’ll come and go.”• Travesties is at the Menier Chocolate Factory, London, from 22 September to 19 November. Box office: 020-7378 1713.