Bored, the Baron mooched in his Manor on the brink of belligerence. Life lacked glamour and Christmas was coming. The Baroness, past her best, oozed ennui, stitched away at a tapestry. The old Retainer polished brass. The Baron felt like kicking his arse.Outside the leaded window – snow, snow on snow; the ground an inkless folio. What to do to enliven life? To put some fizz on the viz of the wife? Even the hounds, in a stupor, snored. The son and heir, party-pooper, piously prone in prayer, as per.What would the King do? London’s Mayor?Gentry, clergy, artisans, serfs, would soon pitch upon the Baron’s turf; but a gloomy grey, smokey, snide,drifted, semi-paralysed. The Baron cursed.Then the Baroness looked up from her crewel,murmured, “Appoint a Lord of Misrule”.Apprentices were poked from straw, lined up,scratching, in the Hall; alongside yeomen,glovers, weavers, smiths, brewers, cordwainers ...A cake with a buried bean was bakedand he who bit on the bean was bookedas King of Christmas, whose writ ran good.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Willie Spear, anarchic fellow, in pantaloonsof violent yellow’… Photograph: PicadorNow Willie Spear, anarchic fellow, in pantaloonsof violent yellow, had done his share of poaching,wenching, any villainy you care to mention ...and he stuck his tongue – bean-gleam, drool – in the Baron’s face. “All bow! All kneel! My Lord’s a fool!Twelve days and nights I am Lord of Misrule!”On the first day of Christmas, William decreedall labouring men were to lie abed. Wives insteadmust enter taverns, mimic slatterns, carouse,booze, shriek, stagger home, skirts in pleats.This also applied to the Baroness, who spentsix sick sessions in the same silk dress.No school for the young. No traitors hung. No work to be done. No churchbells rung. Priests were attired in petticoats, pretty ribbons at their throats. A monkey, dressed in a silver suit, was served at table in the Baron’s seat. Servants walked upon their hands. And all night long, the pissed Band.Then William sent out far and wideto scour the snowy countryside for poets, astrologers,fools, magicians; gave them all Official Positions,gorgeous robes, coin-plump purses; commissionedrude and filthy verses; made No-marks famous; had the Baron’s horoscope cast beneath Uranus.The Baronial pile was a transformed place. Crazy candlelight on painted face. The son and heir, finger-stocked to purge prayer, was squeezed, snogged, by each lass there. The Baroness, who’d taken to mead, was ordered to wait on her own maid – quid pro quo. Outside, twelve glovers made a moon of snow.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘A monkey, dressed in a silver suit, was served at table in the Baron’s seat’ … Photograph: PicadorRegaled by this frenzied Bacchanalia, oxter-deepin a barrel of ale, the Baron mused.Up on the flagpole, Will Spear’s leggingskicked at Heaven. On the frozen moatchildren skated. In his very own chair, a mangy monkeymasticated. The odds were even, evens odd. Dear God ...The Bishop’s bottom was being used for Bullseye.All was mockery, sorcery, debauchery,anarchy, larceny ... and yet, the partyhad a Yuletide sparkle: every fruit, wrapped in tinsel; plump geese roasting; marzipan mangers;everywhere, angels, baubles, candles.Will Spear, too, surveyed the scene, serenein the pose of a natural leader, enthronedon the back of a docile donkey, who chomped hayfrom the palm of the monkey. Twelfth Night drew near.Will ordered everyone there to bed; to return by mornwith a sober head. “Prepare for the final feast,” he said.Silence fell. Subtle snow. In the arms of a girl, freedfrom his stocks, the son and heir smiled in his sleep.Baron and Baroness, ditto, blotto; a jumbly, fumbly,marital heap. Masters and servants topped-and-tailed.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The moon shone down on it’s own cold twin’ … Photograph: PicadorThen the snow ceased and the Moon shone downon its own cold twin, alone on the lawn.There never was such a spread as Spear supplied,so legend has it. All day he had them baking,basting, battering, blanching, boiling, broiling,carmelizing, chopping, creaming, dicing,drizzling, filleting, glazing, grating,grilling, grinding, kneading, mincing, mixing,peeling, pickling, poaching, rendering, roasting,scalding, searing, simmering, tossing, trussing,whipping, till the ancient table groaned and creakedlike the fallen oak of its sylvan past. Then a blastfrom a trumpet, each glass filled; the banquet startedat a prompt from the Lord of Misrule. He farted.And the Baron would remember his laughing wife; the son and heir marry the love of his life – Amen – the priest lead everyone across the fields, when the feast was finished, to church, to kneel, give thanks, while a boy and a monkey swang from the bell. And so passed Willie Spear’s Noël. • The King of Christmas by Carol Ann Duffy, illustrated by Lara Hawthorne, is published by Picador at £6.99. To order a copy for £5.73 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call Guardian book service on 0330 333 6846.