So, to Trident or not needn’t be a binary choice (Analysis: It’s a matter of status for some, 18 January). More generally, the Labour party could limit itself for now to a range of options, to be narrowed according to political and foreign relations conditions when/if it is elected. Options could be: 1) retain, provided that the US – the effective controller of missile use – or non-nuclear Nato countries which allegedly benefit from the UK “shield” pay the costs; 2) sharing costs and hardware with Nato ally France; 3) phase out as part of a bilateral removal by a non-Nato nuclear state; 4) cancel to transfer the significant savings to conventional threats and corresponding weaponry. As Richard Norton-Taylor says, the latter could gain both military and trade union support. The main point is that leaving options open for a Labour government to decide would also be electorally plausible, avoid unnecessary party splits and, after an informed debate, bring in public opinion. Indeed, if EU membership warrants a referendum, doesn’t Trident renewal?Dr Bryn JonesUniversity of Bath• I am very pleased that Jeremy Corbyn has opened a wide-ranging debate in the Labour party over nuclear WMDs, and I share his opposition to these deadly weapons. But I think he is misguided in proposing going ahead with building the missile-carrying nuclear-powered submarines as a replacement for Trident, but deploying them without any arms (Corbyn proposes third way on Trident, 18 January).This would be a massively expensive make-work programme for the existing and future workforces at Barrow shipyard, and the manufacturing supply chain, serving no purpose other than appeasing his trade union backers, who themselves, after decades resisting defence diversification, ought now to wake up to its merits for their members. Your security expert Richard Norton-Taylor is correct to point out that the shipbuilding expertise of the Barrow workforce could be much better deployed in building surface ships and perhaps conventionally powered and armed submarines.In my personal submission to the government’s defence and security review last year, I argued that the main security threat facing the UK this century will come from climate-change-enforced mass migrations of populations from regions hotting up and chronically losing water supplies.I proposed building dual-purpose surface ships for the Royal Navy, to permit evacuations, medical care and emergency aid to these stricken populations, or else face a growing refugee threat that makes the current one from Syria and Libya look like a tea party.Also, shadow defence secretary Emily Thornberry is totally misinformed if she thinks Japan has the capability to build and deploy a nuclear weapon. As a lawyer, she should be aware that Japan has a constitutional prohibition against owning, development or deployment of nuclear weapons. Additionally, Japan has never tested a nuclear weapon, and could not deploy one untested.I think Mr Corbyn should take encouragement from Labour’s election-winning 1964 manifesto, The New Britain, which asserted “We are against the development of national nuclear deterrents.”So am I.Dr David LowryFormer director, European Proliferation Information Centre• I am amazed that within the growing debate about the renewal of Trident, one obvious response from the unions about job losses is being overlooked. Am I the only person who remembers the Lucas Aerospace Plan from 1976? In that situation, with the threat of contracts being lost and factories closed, the joint shop stewards’ committee of Lucas came up with the brilliant proposal of converting their production from military hardware to socially useful products. Most of the 150 or so suggestions were for hi-tech medical equipment, but the list also included heat exchangers for area heating schemes, and efficient water pumps for Africa. Of course, this was deemed to be far too radical an idea.Come on, trade unions, and more urgently, come on, the Labour party – dare to think radically. It will be useful, and win you lots of votes.Chad GoodwinNorwich• Your article (Thornberry given more sway than Livingstone on Trident, 15 January) wrongly claims that most unions are in favour of Britain’s nuclear weapons. In fact, Unison, PCS, CWU, RMT, FBU, TSSA, Aslef, NUM and NUT are affiliated to CND and are fully behind our Stop Trident campaign. In addition, the Trades Union Congress reaffirmed its opposition to Trident replacement in its 2013 conference.Most unions understand that with the right defence diversification programme in place, job losses when Trident is scrapped would be minimised. CND is proud to have the support of so many trade unions, and we look forward to continuing our work with them ahead of an expected parliamentary vote on Trident this year.Kate HudsonGeneral secretary, Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament• Before delivering any more speeches on the pros and cons of warfare, the human cost, the environmental damage, threats to jobs in the armaments industry among other issues, we should all be encouraged to read Julian Borger’s article (One false click, Weekend, 16 January). And politicians and prospective voters must have access to it. If ever there was a “vanity project”, this is it. As we stumble ignorant and helplessly towards the suicidal endgame of destruction, most of us imagine that “cyber attacks” merely involve computer hacking. But, as former defence secretary Des Browne, now of Nuclear Threat Initiative, says, Britain ignores its vunerability and relies on long outdated behemoths such as Trident for security. Military experts know it, but Westminster do not want to hear a word against our ancient “behemoths”, which they claim offer ample “cyber resilience”. Time for a wake-up call.Carolyn KirtonAberdeen• At first glance Caroline Lucas is probably right (A weapon-free Trident is useless. Jeremy Corbyn must be brave, theguardian.com, 18 November). But that’s preferable to Trident with nuclear weapons, which is still useless, hugely more costly and a threat to the planet.Eddie DougallBury St Edmunds, Suffolk• “Iran’s long dalliance with nuclear weapons may finally be over” (Editorial, 18 January). So now can we get to work on this country, please?Tony GreavesLiberal Democrat, House of Lords• As Saddam Hussein demonstrated, pretending to have a nuclear capability is almost as effective as actually having one, though it ended badly in his case.Tony RidgeYork• We know that Jeremy Corbyn would not launch a nuclear strike. On Wednesday, he needs to be the first person ever to pose that question to David Cameron. It also needs to be asked of George Osborne, Theresa May, Boris Johnson, anyone else who might want to succeed Cameron, and each of Corbyn’s critics in his own party: “Would you ever launch a nuclear strike?” (“Under what circumstances?” would be a follow-up question.) This, a yes/no, needs to be the starter for 10. No 10.David LindsayLanchester, County Durham • Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com