How do you mostly listen to music?I find myself listening to recorded music most often through the tiny speakers of my clapped-out computer. The quality of recorded sound doesn’t really bother me that much; actually, I think that for many musicians, hifi is not that important – we can eke out the sounds in our heads.What was the first ever record or cd you bought?       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Beatles in 1963. Photograph: PAThe first record that I remember being given was She Loves You by the Beatles. My great-aunt Esme gave it to me for my 5th birthday; I must have been ecstatic, because I still remember the moment I opened it up. The first classical record I was given was Jacqueline du Pré’s famous performance of the Elgar concerto; again, it must have made a huge impression, because I can still recall seeing it lying on the large armchair in the music room of my first cello-teacher – it was her Christmas present to me, a few months after I started taking lessons with her.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Is applauding between movements acceptable?It certainly can be – it depends on the context. In the 19th century, it was quite common for the audience to demand that a movement be repeated before the performers could continue with the rest of the piece. On the other hand, there are works in which applause in the middle would ruin the atmosphere – the Bach cello suites, for instance. But on the whole, I’d far prefer a genuinely enthusiastic burst of applause after a particularly exciting movement to having, say, the hushed, tragic atmosphere at the end of Tchaikovsky’s Pathétique symphony being destroyed by some idiot clapping immediately, just to show his girlfriend that he knows it’s the end of the piece.What single thing would improve the format of the classical concert?There’s nothing wrong with the format, it’s fine – and these days artists are free to talk to the audience or not to talk to them, which is nice. It’s just the actual performances that often need to improve. And some of the marketing needs to get less embarrassing.What’s been your most memorable live music experience as an audience member?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Duet partners György and Marta Kurtág. Photograph: Lebrecht Music and Arts Photo Li/AlamyThat’s a tricky one; there have been so many. I’ve been very lucky in that respect. For emotional reasons, perhaps, even more than musical ones, hearing Arthur Rubinstein’s very last concert, at the Wigmore Hall; then there was the rather shocking thrill of seeing the diabolic-looking Michelangeli coming onstage at the first time, at the Festival Hall. In a very different way, a more recent memorable experience was György and Marta Kurtág’s duo performance at the Queen Elizabeth Hall – another farewell. Then there was Radu Lupu playing Schubert’s Bb piano sonata at the Wigmore; which reminds me of Andras Schiff’s performance of Schubert’s late A major sonata in Cornwall; and that in turn reminds me of the last concert of the Vegh Quartet, at the Queen Elizabeth Hall; and that leads me to a Schumann lieder recital in the same hall by Fischer- Dieskau; and so on and on. Perhaps when I’m old(er), I can just sit in my bathchair and reminisce about all the amazing concerts I’ve heard.We’re giving you a time machine: what period, or moment in musical history, would you travel to and why? That’s very kind of you – thank you; you shouldn’t have. I think I’d opt for hearing one of Bach’s performances of his St Matthew Passion at St Thomas’s Church in Leipzig; but then I’d probably spend the whole time worrying that I should have gone to listen to Beethoven improvising, or to Chopin’s last concert in Paris (though the blood on the keyboard might have been a bit distracting), or to one of Schubert’s famous musical evenings ...Which conductor or performer of yester-year do you most wish you could have worked with? Well, conductor within recent memory: Carlos Kleiber - of course. Or a little further back, Furtwängler. But perhaps most exciting of all would be to have played with one of the great composers – most of them conducted, though with varying degrees of success. Mendelssohn seems to have been the finest of all, at least in the 19th century. Schumann, on the other hand, was apparently a bit of a disaster as a conductor – but it wouldn’t have mattered; just to have been in the same room as him would have been a taste of heaven.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest What is the best new piece written in the past 50 years?Impossible! But what I would hazard is that it might well have come out of Britain: I think that we’re going through a golden period for British music, with more fine composers than we’ve ever had before. And that’s just in classical music –we have some living treasures in all musical genres. I’d never go anywhere near jazz. I’d be hopeless! What’s the most overrated classical work? - ie is there a warhorse whose appeal you really don’t relate to?I have to say that I don’t see the great attraction of Ravel’s Bolero. Why do people love it so much? Well, perhaps it’s good background music for some activities…Which non-classical musician would you love to work with?Well, I’d be careful about that - I’m wary about any musician straying into a language with which they’re not familiar. Speaking for myself, I’d never go anywhere near jazz, for instance. I’d be hopeless! But perhaps some great pop musicians could write a classical-style cello part which I could manage – because pop and classical can be so close. I have to say (well, I don’t have to say, strictly speaking – but I will anyway) that one of my proudest memories is of having been conducted (just me!) for an hour or so by Paul McCartney. Imagine you’re a festival director here in London with unlimited resources. What would you programme - or commission - for your opening event? That’s an interesting one. A commission would be problematic, because I have too many composer friends, all but one of whom would hate me for my choice. If I were to programme a work from the past, it might well be Promethée by Gabriel Fauré. Its premiere was perhaps the greatest success of his life; it must have been amazing – 13 harps at the front of a specially-built stage, backed by a vast chorus and orchestra and lots of soloists. As far as I know, it’s never been performed here. (Might the Guardian be interested in sponsoring it, perhaps? You have my email address…)What do you sing in the shower? Probably the piece I’ve got to practise after my shower. Or – since it is my firm and unshakeable policy to listen to music while I shave, shaving being such an uneventful activity in itself – something I’ve just heard on the radio or on disc. Or perhaps, come to think of it, I don’t sing at all; I have a lot of hair to wash – it’s quite hard work!Steven Isserlis’s recording of Elgar and Walton’s cello concertos is out this month on Hyperion. He performs the Elgar concerto with the RSNO at the Royal Albert Hall, London on 5 April. 