Warning: this story contains spoilers.Oscar-tipped western The Revenant has drawn a mix of praise and criticism from survival expert Ray Mears for scenes in which Leonardo DiCaprio’s 19th-century trapper eats raw bison liver, catches fish with piles of stones and sleeps inside a dead horse.Fact-checking Alejandro González Iñárritu’s film, which leads the charge for next month’s Academy Awards with 12 nominations, Mears suggested many of frontiersman Hugh Glass’s tricks had some basis in truth. But the star of Wild Britain With Ray Mears was quick to pick holes in the detail of Iñárritu’s retelling, in an interview with the Daily Telegraph.Leonardo DiCaprio: 'I would love to play Vladimir Putin' The Revenant is based on the 2002 novel of the same name by Michael Punke, which details Glass’s survival and subsequent journey of revenge after being left for dead by comrades following a brutal bear attack in the unsettled wilderness of the Louisiana Purchase. In the film, DiCaprio cuts open a horse and climbs in to keep warm in the freezing conditions, but Mears said a recently deceased buffalo would have made a better sleeping bag. “That is possible and people have done it,” he told the Telegraph. “But he’d freeze to death after one night. I’m not sure whether a horse would provide enough insulation, it depends on the temperature.”Mears said: “A buffalo would be fine. A buffalo’s fur is very, very thick and the fat is very thick, so it would take a long while to freeze.”According to Mears, eating raw bison liver would have helped Glass make it through the wilderness without starving to death. “If you eat raw liver, you get complete amino acids, so it will prevent starvation,” he said. “It’s very good to eat it raw because the liver contains a lot of blood and blood contains carbohydrates, which will help keep you warm.”The Revenant is meaningless pain porn | Carole Cadwalladr The survival expert had mixed feelings about scenes in which DiCaprio catches fish from shallow waters using stones laid out in a horseshoe pattern. “That technique is a type of fish weir and was used by native people in that part of the world,” Mears confirmed. “It’s not easy, though, and it wouldn’t necessarily have been the best way to catch fish under those circumstances. In those shallow rivers, there are other ways that could be used.”But Mears said DiCaprio’s technique of pretending to be dead to avoid further injury at the hands of a marauding female bear might just have worked. “I’ve interviewed a woman who was mauled by a grizzly bear,” he said. “She was out hunting elk with her husband when she saw a female grizzly bear with two cubs running towards her. She went for her rifle but fumbled and the next thing, she looked up and the bear was in front of her.“The bear stood up, put both of its paws on the rifle and then she stared at it in the eye. And that’s where she went wrong. The bear then bit her in the face, the breast and the hip and she pretended to be dead. It then left her alone.”