June 2015It is the month of early visits, of waking before 5am when the plot calls. The time of growth and hazel wigwams. Time to be concerned about seed. I lie awake – or sit at work – imagining the tender seedlings at the mercy of wind, rain, sun, slugs. Will they make it through infancy? With my help, maybe.By 6am I am at the allotment, the air soft, the light too, the robin, maybe the fox, my only companions. The baby beans, only two leaves tall, are vulnerable now. Will they make it past the snails lying in wait like bullies? Within two weeks they will be free, snaking up hazel poles in a speeded-up film. Next month they’ll be 2m high, stems entwined, feeling for the next stick like rock climbers on a difficult face. Flowers will start to grow, pods begin to form. But for now I stand on the sidelines, a parent on sports day, calling urgent encouragement. Soon, like kids, they will be old enough to fend for themselves but for now at least I am here, not so much to do anything – the bed is hoed, weeded, pretty pristine – but as a friend, odd as this sounds, so they know they are not alone. Plymouth children’s homes were feral then. Snarling packs sniffing out fears, tears, blood I learned, I think, to love from seed, much as other kids had puppies, kittens, fluffy toys. But it was the hopeful helplessness of seed that called, something vulnerable to care for. The urge to protect, to be there, was strong, like I couldn’t be for my brother, Christopher, when I left him alone in the children’s home; for my sister, Lesley, out of harm’s way, I thought, with her dad, or Caron, whom my mother would abandon while she searched for new men, new sex, excitement.Plot 29 belongs to Mary Wood, who has shared it with my friend Howard Sooley and me since 2009, when Don, her husband, died. Not because she couldn’t cope with the space (she is a gifted gardener) but because it produces more food, she says, than she can eat. Mary is poorly at the moment. As her energy levels have dropped, the weeds, the wild, have pressed in, strangling the plot. I am here to clear her green manure. Narcotised bees are everywhere, seemingly overdosing on nectar. They fall stoned to the soil as I clear. Sycamore seedlings infest the bed, the overwintered chard is blown, a metre tall, menacing nettles taller. I work quickly, scything, clearing, restoring order. It feels important now that Mary’s plot doesn’t also succumb to attack.I clear the bed, transplanting a couple of short rows of six-inch chards, sowing another of beetroot seed. I cut pea sticks for a row at the bottom of the bed. With little time to work our part of the plot, I sow nasturtium on the border.My gardening life, in some ways my life, begins with this simple seed. Most of my memories start at the age of five, perhaps because there are photos from then, perhaps because almost everything before then was chaos to be peeled away later in the therapist’s chair and in talks with members of my “birth family” (a sly phrase we have been taught to say instead of “real”), when I found them many years later. Perhaps simply because that is where safety starts. With Lilian and Dudley Drabble.There is a photo of my brother and me with Lilian as young boys. Christopher is lopsidedly smiling, proudly holding his new ginger kitten. It almost matches his hair. Lilian is crouched with Tonka, her Siamese cat. I have my arm around her, looking a little warily into the camera. The boys’ clothes are comically big. Not “you will grow into them” big, but clothes bought while the intended children aren’t (have never been) there. We were small for our age. But these are new clothes for a new life in our new home with our new family.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘New clothes for a new life’: five-year-old ‘Alan Jenkins’, right, and his brother, Christopher, in 1959, with their new ‘mother’ Lilian Drabble, centre, on their first day in their foster home. Photograph: © Allan JenkinsLilian and Dudley married in their 40s. They met when she nursed his dying father. Too old to have children, they first looked to adopt a baby girl but were denied, perhaps because of age. It was a loss Lilian would always feel. She wanted someone all her own, someone she could mould and make, who would wear dresses.There was somehow always a sadness we couldn’t assuage.Meanwhile, the Drabbles offered respite to “damaged” children at their picture-postcard post office on Dartmoor. Christopher and I spent a weekend there, shooting bows and arrows, learning to say please and thank you (we were “guttural” Dudley would later delight in telling me).Plymouth children’s homes were feral then. Snarling packs sniffing out fears, tears, blood. Not always only the boys. We learned a lesson about caste here. First, of course, there were the Brahmins: the “Famous Five” families with their normal “mum and dad” (small words still able, occasionally, to conjure black holes of unhappiness). The adopted were the chosen ones, mostly children of the over-fertile underclass taken in by the infertile middle class. The unworthy become worthy, if you will; a shift in status almost impossible to imagine – a parole from purgatory.Foster families were holding pens – a sifting, shifting, near-family life spent waiting. Here we would practise being appreciative and loving, living under the fear or hope or threat of the knock on the door. A dread visit from the social worker, who might pass you along, around or back.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I grow it still, this unruly, gaudy flower: nasturtiums from plot 29. Photograph: Howard SooleyAt the bottom, of course, the untouchable unlovables. The broken kids in care with the mark of Cain, the ones no one wants. My brother Christopher.Residential care operated like dogs’ homes – abandoned pets kept penned until someone, anyone, might take them. I remember days my hair was specially brushed. I was told to smile, because new parents might see me, heal me, love me, take me off the city’s hands. There is a skill, you see, to being lovable: a fluffy, undamaged Disney dog, eager to engage, with a wagging tail. Christopher couldn’t or wouldn’t learn. People were nervous of his nervous tic. His face twitched, his mouth twisted. He was stunted. The runt of the litter with perhaps a subtle hint of trouble to come. Though appearances can be deceptive.I was rehomed but would keen for Christopher until they returned me to the pack, just another ungrateful, undeserving boy. Until the days of Lilian and Dudley Drabble, their house on a Devon river, a kitten, a cat and a magic packet of nasturtium seed. Here, it is different; organic plants grow, foxes are free, flowers spread, children run around I grow it still, this unruly, gaudy flower. It is prone to infestation, the first to fall over in the frost, but my gardening is saturated in emotional memories, as with music and love. So I sow nasturtiums because they are tangled up like bindweed with thoughts of the boy I was, the boy I became, the brother I lost, perhaps the father I’ll never know. And I sow runner beans for Mary because Don, her late husband, grew them. Mary also offered me a home, a place to grow when I didn’t have one.Later in the week, I meet with Howard to stir biodynamic cow manure by hand in water for an hour. From the beginning of working the allotment we chose to work this way, inspired by Jane Scotter of Fern Verrow farm in Herefordshire, the finest grower we know. In most areas of my life I carefully calculate risk and reward, working within tight budgets and remits. Here, it is different; organic plants grow, foxes are free, flowers spread, children run around. As an adolescent I was banned from confirmation class for being unable to buy into the church, the resurrection and miracles but I have since learned to suspend my disbelief. A journalist, I stop asking questions and try to listen. We follow a lunar planting calendar and avoid invasive pest control. We believe our crops last longer, taste better – the rocket is hotter, the beetroot sweeter, the sorrel more sour. It works for us. We feel more connected to the soil. It suits us and the space.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Jenkins brothers, Devon, 1959. Photograph: © Allan JenkinsWithout early success at growing as a kid, I guess, I might not be doing it now. It was the first time as a child I thought I might be gifted at something. In south Devon, Dudley gave Christopher and me two pocket-sized patches of garden and two packets of seed. Christopher had African marigolds (tagetes): bright orange, cheery, the stuff of temple garlands. I was handed nasturtium flowers: chaotic cascades of reds, oranges and yellows (Dad liked bright colours), which soon overflowed. Caper-shaped seed heads would dry in the sun. I was amazed (still am) that so much life can come from a small packet.July Summer for me is saturated in early memories of Herons Reach, the house on the riverbank that Lilian and Dudley bought to bring up the boys. When I talk of those days, my early life, it is often of “the boy” (or boys) and what happened to him (or them). I rarely use me or we.It might be to do with confusion or creating a protective distance. I notice other people with a similar background do the same. It might be to do with shedding identity, like the ethereal adder skins I used to find in the Aveton Gifford churchyard. It might be about naming. Mum and Dad didn’t like the name Alan, so quickly chose to call me Peter, my middle name, instead. And after a probationary period – I must have passed a test – I was given Drabble (Christopher resisted and stubbornly stuck with Jenkins, a schism between us). Now that we were safe, they thought we could be safely separated.Scared city child Alan Jenkins was fading, at least for now. Bright-eyed, blond-haired village boy Peter Drabble was cocooning, being born.1959 The village school test for TB has alarmed Mum and Dad and me. My left arm is very swollen, with red streaks running down. And the doctor thinks I am “rickety”. Christopher is OK, which only means more mystery. Where was I? Where was he? The first clue we maybe hadn’t always been together. But why our amnesia?Rickets. A Dickensian world away from the family life the Drabbles have been building. No vitamin D and now I am touched by TB. Capital letters writ large of lack of care. For the next 10 years I have an annual x-ray, looking for lesions. My sunken chest pressed against cold metal, standing on tiptoe on a box, straining chin on top. Would my past incubate? Would it return to disturb me? I have a large spoonful of cod liver oil every morning, shuddering as it sluices down. I also have a memory of being given raw liver, but this may be elaboration or invention, a common failing for kids like me.We have our own bedroom, our own bed. But the truest sign of home is our dressing gowns. To be worn watching TV or after a Sunday-night bath, shiny for the new school week, downstairs for a goodnight peck, ours are brown wool, plain with a piped edge. My cord is blue and white, Chris’s is red and white like a barber’s pole, the colours of Manchester United, his favourite football team. Local Plymouth Argyll lose too often for his liking. Scared city child Alan Jenkins was fading… Bright-eyed, blond-haired village boy Peter Drabble was cocooning 23 July Of course I am now concerned about the baby squash and courgettes in the heatwave. The weather has been baking for days, so I am back on the first bus with today’s bleary-eyed postal workers. It’s bright, the start of a maybe 30-degree day, but there’s cool in the early-morning air, the first spectral tendril of autumn. The plot will need water and I can be back home before breakfast. A heavy wave of sweet pea hits me as I pass the corner by the plot. The berries are turning now. Autumn won’t be long. Mary’s runner bean wigwam is flecked with flower and the bush beans are breaking through. I am more worried about the borders. Bindweed is creeping its way into the strawberry bed and the lovage is being tethered to the ground like Gulliver, sporting parasitic blooms. I grab a handful of beans. I have been bitten again and am starting to scratch. I soak the pumpkin bed, grinning at the new growth. Watering may be the best feeling in gardening. By 7am I am back on the bus, refreshed. I need breakfast and a bath.1965 There is a photograph of me in my final year of primary school. I am sitting up straight, blond hair neatly combed, looking into the camera, superior smile on my face. Pure Midwich Cuckoo, pure Peter Drabble. The rescue operation appears complete. Like our river cottage, I have been rebuilt into something smarter. Gone for now the questioning eyes, to be replaced with overweening confidence. I am head boy at my small Church of England school, garlanded in gushing valentines and the 11-plus. Grammar school is next. There is also, though, an uneasiness about my last year there. A girl from the estate is humiliated in class. She renders the summer sky yellow, the wheat field blue. I like the painting’s boldness, its originality, but the teacher humiliates her, toys with her like a cat showing kittens how to torture mice. We are being taught about more than English and maths. This is a lesson in class, about who her parents are.Christopher is becoming crueller. The hunted grows to be the hunter; the abuser rather than the abused. It is simple, the psychology. The Drabbles have withdrawn their favour. His hurt has to be displaced. He turns to shooting random birds and rabbits; breaking wings, breaking legs. He sends in dogs. He turns on Mum and Dad, snarls his anger. He turns on me. I am blinded by other loyalties, too young and stupid to see. He grows to like a fight, my brother; is more of a force at school (I have sometimes cause to be grateful). Christopher is already at secondary school in Kingsbridge, the local market town, learning to curse, spray power words around like cunt and fuck and twat. He is a Jenkins, running with a tougher town crowd, I am a Drabble, still tied to my village primary. By the time I get to Kingsbridge, the grammar and secondary schools have merged, the new comprehensive classes streamed. I am in 1.1, year one, top tier, Christopher in 2.5. Our drift apart is official, as if we were not brothers any more. What we had is almost invisible.1968 It is decided I should go to boarding school. Plymouth children’s department will pay and there will be a scholarship. Boarding school and the army are presented as Mum and Dad’s only options for our future. I like the idea at first. It sounds like an adventure. I am good at new people and places. I have practice. Christopher pleads to stay on at school for agricultural college, his grades have improved every year. He loves our neighbour’s farm and farming, is dug in deep in the village. He belongs here like no one else. I am too smart-mouthed, too strange, Lilian and Dudley too stand-offish. But Dad is insistent. Christopher is packed off early to the army. He will never forget or forgive them and I am not sure I do. In the summer of ’68, as the rest of the world seems set to change, our family fractures. It is sudden, savage, the shift.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chicory from plot 29. Photograph: Howard Sooley5 August, 7.30am An early weekday visit to the allotment. I keep a shirt in the shed for watering or weeding, in case I have a meeting first thing and don’t want to be wearing mud. I am here to sow, easier in the morning air. I cut sticks and string, give the bed another hoe. There will be short rows, some with Mary’s seed and a couple of cavolo nero, lettuce, red mustard and rocket. A blackbird lays the soundtrack and a robin keeps me company. A few feet away, pigeons hang in the skeleton tree like vultures waiting for something to die. Within an hour or so the sowing is done. I water it in. The forecast is for rain but I can’t resist soaking the rest of the plot. The beans and squash are greedy and it relaxes me before the bus to work (no time to walk now). Mary will have her autumn leaves. I wander around, reluctant to leave. The corn looks as if it is ready to eat, the cobs are fat, but they will have to wait till Howard is back. A young black cat, no collar, passes by nervously.1968 All change. We cannot find your mother but we have found your sister, Lesley, and your father, the care worker tells me (this use of “care” in “children in care” a Goebbels-like lie). Things are drifting dangerously at home, Christopher is unhappy in the army. I am away at boarding school. Dad has sold Herons Reach to Lilian’s nephew, who wants a bolt hole from Kuwait. Gone the river, gone the field, broken the sense of security. Dudley is clearing the decks.I am wanting to know more about Alan Jenkins. Mum and Dad are probably resentful, though they have never said so. It is as though it is a matter of poor manners and ingratitude, not identity. Asking is discouraged throughout the system. It is wrong, the “right to know”. I am searching for an escape plan. If one door closes, can another open? But if Lilian and Dudley don’t want us, why would anyone?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Peter Drabble’’, in his final year at primary school. Photograph: © Allan JenkinsA photo strip arrives at school of a skinhead girl grinning into the camera. I pore over it. Can I see a likeness? It will be a first for me (Christopher and I are never alike in looks or temperament, though tightly bound together like corn). Most families share the same eyes, smile, same mouth. They swim in a sea of recognition, reassured of where they belong. I think I have always been longing for a face that could be connected to me.My sister and I exchange excited messages. Lesley writes of her life in Basildon, a new town in Essex, with her – “our” – dad. I show off from my posh Devon school. I cannot discuss it at home, the wheels are coming off. But I pine for Lesley’s letters, like adolescent love. I have long wanted a sister, someone soft. Perhaps finding a dad is less important because Dudley has filled that space. A mum, though, is different, a primeval pull. It isn’t anyone’s fault, just how it is. Maybe, as we get older and more male, Lilian still mourns the baby girl she never had.I worry why she isn’t more affectionate. Kisses, quick cuddles are for when I am sick. I had divined early on that it was because she was too thin, her breasts couldn’t carry enough chemicals for love. Other boys’ mums are more curved, more tactile, invite you in, feed you, sit on the same sofa as their sons. I am envious of friends who are held. It has been a long time. I am in need of mothering.There isn’t, though, a mother to be found, the care worker says. For now, a sister and a father will do. Letters are exchanged from our twin alien worlds. Lesley’s handwriting, neat and loopy, sometimes comes in green ink.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 1987 I am in need of a birth certificate for a new passport but it seems I don’t exist. Alan Jenkins born on my birthday isn’t to be found. I am confused, so ask at the enquiries desk. Search the adoption register, the man says, if you are not there, your birthdate is wrong. Most of my life I have carried the understanding of caste, that although they had changed my name, had played our parents, the Drabbles didn’t adopt us. I was never sure why we hadn’t made the grade. I was proud to bear the mark of foster child but adoption is another level of belonging, gossamer close to never having to worry about being sent back, no longer on sufferance. A family of your own. A place to stay.I search the adoption register. And immediately there it is in black and white. All this time, my history mouldering, smouldering, in this London room. Alan Jenkins’s certificate. Adopted by Leslie Ray Jenkins, it says, at 12 months old. I am lost. I wanted a passport, a long-haul holiday, not the fabric of who I am to lie threadbare in my lunch break.The next step is logical but I don’t know if I am ready. Should I come back with someone?Back to the birth register. And here is Allan Peter Beale, born 15.01.1954, with the note: “See adoption register”. Me. As a baby. A penned dash on the page for a father’s name. Unknown. I knew I had been Alan Jenkins, Peter Jenkins, Peter Drabble, then back again, the coat as originally cut. Back to where I had started. Or so I’d understood. But now there is another avatar. Baby bastard Allan with two l’s. Born Beale. I order the certificates, return to the office confused, elated, angry. Maybe also relieved. The guy ropes that have grounded me are again frayed.16 August The plot looks overgrown, there have been weeks of sun and showers. I have been proud of its production, its high summer growth, but it is matted, like a long-haired dog that’s been rolling in mud. It needs work with secateurs, a careful clearing. I am away next weekend. Then it will be 31 August, the last day of summer. Autumn is only days away, “fall” in old English, for fall of the year and leaves. The steps to the shed are littered with conkers, signalling the start of school winter term. Jeffrey’s dahlias are like dinner plates. There’s a cluster of fat blackberries by the compost. The signs are everywhere. I guess I have been distracted. Mary’s runner beans are running to seed. I hope she gets to eat them. I pick ours, of course, and lettuce leaves for Sunday lunch, nasturtiums for the kitchen table.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I am too smart-mouthed, too strange…’: ‘Peter Jenkins’ at Glastonbury, aged 17. Photograph: © Allan Jenkins29 August The box has arrived from Plymouth. I ordered it a few weeks ago, a freedom-of-information request for my records – 10 years in the city’s care. I need to know more facts, to sift reality from uncertain memory. I need to dig beyond the marigolds and here it is. A plain cardboard box in a plain package, postmarked my past. Harmless-looking. Innocent, though it should come with hazard tape. Warning! Contains memory nitroglycerine. I gorge on my photocopied history at first, the tale of “two agile little fellows, both proud of being brothers”.Single-spaced, there are hundreds of pages. The writing is 360 degrees: reports from welfare officers, care-home workers, teachers, doctors, and reports and letters I wish I hadn’t read from Dudley, my foster father.I came to the childcare department’s attention aged four, it says. My family is “well known to them”. A hospital had refused me a tonsillectomy because I had scabies and herpes. They were concerned about infection. Now so am I. I had known I had rickets and history with tuberculosis, but here lie unsettling layers of grime, like rooting through a dead man’s belongings, the body lain alone for years.Scabies, herpes, rickets, TB. Jackpot. A bonanza, winning a lottery for the unloved.Christopher had been operated on for a hernia. He was nervous, withdrawn, the records say. He was very small for his age.The reports are novelistic, unreal, almost unbearable. The first care-home worker reports we had “no deep attachment for anybody. There was never a murmur out of the boys for ‘homesickness’ or anything like that”. I can’t help but wonder why. I can’t stop reading my story. It is a fairytale from another world in another time, happening to another child. Who are these boys? Is Allan/Alan/Peter really me? How did Christopher survive? It is news. Like a drug, addictive. Compelling like coffee. Until suddenly anxious, I have overdosed. Exhausted, at last I go to bed. It is late. My wife looks worried.7 March The weekend sun is already stronger. Today is close to 15C. The plot is calling. It’s really too early to sow too much but it’s time to sort seed. I root around the house, collecting packets from bags and boxes and tins. I lay them out on the floor, grouped into herbs and salads, root vegetables, fruits, flowers, kales and chards. This may come in useful later. Some I should maybe throw away but I’ll give them a chance, like someone once gave me (and yes, I know how that sounds). On site, the unfinished pond is teeming with frogs. The males are noisy, overactive, the females overwhelmed. I trudge a few more buckets of water to the pond. I sit in the sun, watching bees, even butterflies. The hives are alive. I sow more garlic. I lay in a row of radishes. You never know.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Allan Jenkins at work on plot 29. Photograph: Howard Sooley18 March I am in Barnardo’s in east London reading my records – the familiar language, the familiar tone, the familiar players: I am being put up for adoption, the notes say. Sheila is 19, pregnant for the third time. She had a miscarriage at 17. Christopher at 18. I will be next. [Sheila’s parents] Billy and Doris have had enough so they have brought her here. Sheila is described as “medium build, mid-brown hair, brown eyes – dull and suppressed in presence of M.Gd-fa [maternal grandfather: Billy] who was curt with her”. She’s been seen by Dr Matheson of the mental health department who “did not consider her certifiable as a feeble-minded person”, though my great-aunt, Marina Beale, “is in the care of the Royal Western Counties Mental Institution”. Poor woman, whoever she was.The records state that my grandparents are respectable people and their home is overcrowded. Four of my uncles live in one room, aged 11 to 17. Christopher is there too, in a cot. It says they are devoted to him. My mother will not be allowed to bring me back from the maternity home. Something must be done quickly, my grandmother says. Sheila’s “character” and “morals” are reported to be “weak”. I feel like an intruder. We are here at last, before the beginning. The start of my life in single-spaced type.12.02.1954. Four weeks old: Dr Barnardo’s Homes: National Incorporated Association. Head Offices 1-26, Stepney Causeway London, E1 [Sixpence stamp]I Sheila Irene Beale of 57, Grassendale Avenue, Swilly, Plymouth being the mother of Allan Peter Beale hereby agree with the Association:to the child entering into the care of Dr Barnardo’s Homes and to the child being brought up by the Association in any of its branches, or in any of its boarding-out homes in the British Isles;to the child being brought up in the Protestant faith;to the Association, without further consultation, taking such action in respect of the child as may be deemed necessary in the child’s interest;to the Association placing the child when it deems it proper in that occupation which it considers best for the child;to abide by the rules of the Association, and to co-operate with its officers in their efforts on the child’s behalf;to receive back the child in my care if at any time requested to do so.Dated this Friday 12th day of February 1954 Signature and address SI Beale 57 Grassendale Ave Swilly Signatures and addresses of two witnesses [redacted]Four weeks old and the right to choose my occupation is on the list? I break it all down into bite-sized pieces: the photo of my Barnardo’s home with prams outside, the details of my mother’s room. Ray is on the scene now, they are going to be married. He will take my brother but I am too much to ask. My grandmother describes me as a “handsome baby – much nicer than Christopher when he was born”. The comparisons begin. There is another note from Billy pleading for speed but Barnardo’s still doesn’t have space. It may take three months. Time enough to be breastfed, time enough to bond. The notes ask what I will be weaned on when the escort comes to take me. But bigger news waits, innocent as a kitten, unexploded ordinance in eight-point type.There is a name where it asks for father:FRANCIS O’TOOLE, AGED 22, LEADING COOK ON HMS DECOY.Of course, I have never heard of him. I’m unprepared. It feels right and wrong.Their short story is written here: there had been “misconduct, intimacy”, an offer of marriage, later withdrawn. Billy had asked the navy to pressure him but he disappeared. Until now. Is it finally him, the man who made me, or is he legend for Barnardo’s to make my adoption more agreeable? Have I found the one person I wasn’t looking for? Is the gap too real to feel? I leave with my notes neat in an elasticated file.• Plot 29 by Allan Jenkins is published by Fourth Estate (£14.99). To order a copy for £11.24 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99