David Bowie’s family have said they are “overwhelmed” by the reaction to his death and are now making arrangements for a private ceremony to celebrate his memory.Bowie’s death at the age of 69 was announced on Monday after he had suffered from cancer for 18 months.In a statement posted on the late singer’s official Facebook page on Thursday, his family said they “welcome everyone’s celebration” and began with the words: “Thank you”.Thank You David Bowie – review: the BBC’s spontaneous tributes did Ziggy proud It continues: “The family of David Bowie is currently making arrangements for a private ceremony celebrating the memory of their beloved husband, father and friend. They ask once again that their privacy be respected at this most sensitive of times.”“We are overwhelmed by and grateful for the love and support shown throughout the world. However, it is important to note that while the concerts and tributes planned for the coming weeks are all welcome, none are official memorials organized or endorsed by the family.“Just as each and every one of us found something unique in David’s music, we welcome everyone’s celebration of his life as they see fit.”Bowie was planning another album before his death, according to his long-time friend and producer, Tony Visconti.About one week before his death, and with his latest album Blackstar nearing release, Bowie called Visconti to say he wanted to make a final album. He had apparently written and demoed five new songs.Visconti told Rolling Stone: “At that late stage, he was planning the follow-up to Blackstar.”David Bowie's body cremated in New York ceremony, say reports Although he had known since November that the cancer he was privately suffering was terminal, he still hoped for time to record new music.Visconti said: “I was thrilled, and I thought, and he thought, that he’d have a few months, at least. Obviously, if he’s excited about doing his next album, he must have thought he had a few more months. So the end must have been very rapid. I’m not privy to it. I don’t know exactly, but he must have taken ill very quickly after that phone call.”It has been reported that Bowie was cremated in secret shortly after his death. He will be honoured with a tribute at next month’s Brit Awards, as well as a memorial concert at New York’s Carnegie Hall on 31 March.Blackstar, released on 8 January to mark his 69th birthday, looks certain to hold on to the No 1 spot in the charts on Friday. It is also likely to be his first No 1 album in the US.