Apples are like winter coats. By February, we’ll be tired of the very sight of them, but right now, after a summer of soft, juicy stone fruit and berries, the crunch of a russet or the warming woolliness of a sour cooker is as thrilling as the smell of a new pencil case. And, while they are still abundant and cheap, and no one can get enough of the things, I’ve added a classic British apple cake to the usual repertoire of pies and crumbles.I say British specifically, because when my thoughts first turned to apple cake I got excited about custardy French versions and dense, cinnamon-spiked American ones, before regretfully realising that pitting an Ottolenghi recipe with olive oil and maple icing against one from a farm kitchen in Victorian Dorset was as pointless as comparing a Barbour with a Prada shearling – both great winterwear in their own way, but they couldn’t be more different.As Dorset has adopted the apple cake as its official culinary symbol, I’ve plumped for the West Country variety, though those from further north may be interested to note that Julie Duff’s truly excellent book Cakes: Regional and Traditional contains recipes from Ireland, Wales and Yorkshire, and Sue Lawrence’s Scottish Baking boasts one from north of the border, too. Clearly, it would be more than my life is worth to compare them.The flour      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Julie Duff’s apple cake calls for wholemeal flour, giving it a coarser texture. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianDuff’s recipe from Somerset and Devon (“each county seeming to have its own variation”) calls for wholemeal flour, which gives her cake a slightly heavier, coarser texture my testing panel rather likes in this context – this should be a rustic affair. That said, if you’re less of a fan of a worthy texture, feel free to substitute plain white flour.Interestingly, Gary Rhodes’ recipe in his book New British Classics, and that from a farmer’s wife in North Chideock, Dorset, included in Florence White’s wonderful 1932 collection, Good Things in England, both start with a firmish dough rather than a batter, and end up more like scones or rock cakes than a fluffy sponge – indeed, Miss Annette Vipan, who contributed the latter recipe, suggests it is best eaten warm, spread with butter. Though it’s not a cake as we might understand it today, I would highly recommend them as an alternative use for excess apples; both are utterly delicious.Fat      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Annette Vipan’s apple cake, best eaten warm with butter. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianButter is the fat of choice in dairy country, with Mary Berry using it melted, which, according to those who know more about the chemistry of baking than me, will give it a denser texture – “if you melt the butter first, not only do you not have … air bubbles, but there’s water in butter, so you’ll end up getting some gluten development when you mix in the flour and create a more “chewy” or softer texture.” Karen Burns-Booth, writing on the Great British Chefs website, and Duff both use the creaming method, where air is beaten into the batter to give the cake a lighter texture yet, to my slight surprise, we prefer Berry’s closer, chewier consistency in this instance.Burns-Booth also goes for the traditional pound cake formula of equal parts butter, sugar, flour and eggs, while everyone else employs a more parsimonious ratio of roughly half the fat to flour. Usually I take the stance of the more butter the better, and indeed, Burns-Booth’s cake is rich and delicious, but the plainer versions prove more popular on this occasion – they just feel more fitting to the spirit of this particular cake.Duff notes that “older recipes used lard” – she prefers butter, but I can’t resist tracking down some decent pig fat for Vipan’s. Free-range stuff proves oddly difficult to get hold of, but it’s well worth the effort, giving this rock-cake-like creation an addictively crisp texture my testers can’t get enough of. For my fluffier version, however, I’ll be sticking with Berry’s melted butter.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Apple cake by Mary Berry, made with melted butter. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianSugarMost recipes don’t specify what kind of sugar to use, which I generally assume to imply white caster, but Burns-Booth and Duff both go for the soft light brown sort. Having seen a recipe from the West Dorset Foodie that recommends dark muscovado, I decide to give that a whirl in Duff’s cake, but testers declare it too Christmassy for this time of year. The caramel flavour of the light muscovado, however, works as well with the fruit as one might expect, given the popularity of toffee apples. A few people, me included, find Burns-Booth’s recipe a little sweet for their taste, so I decide to cut the sugar slightly.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Karen Burns-Booth chooses soft light brown sugar. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianHer crunchy demerara topping proves very popular, however, even more so than Duff’s deliciously sticky honey glaze – like Berry’s toasted almonds, they supply a pleasing textural contrast to the soft fruit and chewy cake beneath.The applesThough this is a cake designed to work with whatever windfall you might have been landed with, only Berry calls for cooking apples. The problem, I find, is that Bramleys in particular break down very quickly when heated, which is what makes them such a delight to stew, encase in pastry and so on – but which also means that the chunks in Berry’s cake end up marooned in great caverns within the batter. Better to go with a firmer-textured eating variety that keeps its shape during cooking – Rhodes recommends the Granny Smith for its “tart bite” and Burns-Booth the spicy Cox, but use whatever you like or have in abundance, though I would recommend something fairly tart to contrast with the sweetness of the crumb.More important, in my opinion, is the way you cut the fruit – grate it, as Rhodes suggests, and it will disappear into the batter. Smallish dice are preferable, and I also like Burns-Booth’s notion of keeping the skin on; not only does it make life easier, but it helps keep the pieces together. Plus, the more fibre the better, surely.Extras?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gary Rhodes’ melted cheddar topping is a clever twist Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianApples have a natural affinity with dried fruit, like Duff’s sultanas, and sweet spice – she uses cinnamon, Rhodes nutmeg, and Burns-Booth goes all out with the mixed sort, while Berry bucks the trend with almond extract. As usual, I’m powerless to resist the peppery charms of nutmeg, finding the sweet perfume of cinnamon overpowering, but the taste test is divided – though most agree that they find the dried fruit to be gilding the lily.Rhodes’ melted cheddar topping is a clever twist on the idea of serving cheese with fruit cake, but not everyone’s sold on the idea, and I reluctantly concede that perhaps it is something better served alongside the cake than baked into the batter. Alternatively, some thick ivory cream, or a dollop of tangy yoghurt would do very nicely – along with a nice cup of tea, naturally.Perfect Dorset apple cake      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Perfect Dorset apple cake by Felicity Cloake. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the Guardian(Makes one apple cake)225g wholemeal flour2 tsp baking powderPinch of saltGrating of nutmeg or 1 tsp mixed spice175g light muscovado sugar150g butter, melted2 large eggs, beaten4 medium apples, preferably fairly tangy (I like Cox’s), dicedDemerara sugar, to top2 tbsp flaked almondsHeat the oven to 160C and grease a 20cm cake tin. Put the flour, baking powder, salt, nutmeg and sugar in a large bowl and stir in the butter and eggs. Beat together for a minute or so until well combined.Endangered apples: help save Britain's rare varieties Stir in the apples until well distributed, then spoon into the tin. Smooth the top and then sprinkle with the demerara. Bake for an hour, then add the almonds and bake for about 15-25 minutes more until coming away from the tin. Allow to cool for 10 minutes in the tin then lift onto a rack to cool completely.Apple cakes are autumnal favourites wherever they grow, so what’s your favourite variety, and can you recommend a recipe for it? Apfelkuchen versus torta di mele, bizcocho de manzana or jablkový koláč: can any of them beat the Dorset version?