Late-night hosts took on Barack Obama’s lucrative Wall Street-funded speech, “Zombie Trumpcare” and impending nuclear war.Late-night TV hosts on Trump: turning the Oval Office into 'a dream treehouse' On the Late Show, Stephen Colbert reflected on Trump’s struggles as he approaches the 100th day of his unorthodox presidency. “It is just exhausting watching this man trying to accomplish something,” he joked.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “When he was running, his message was: ‘I’ll get the job done. I am the negotiator. I wrote The Art of the Deal’,” the comic continued. “And I agree with that art part. I mean, it’s like modern art. When I look at his presidency I think: my 5-year-old could do that.”Noting that Republican representatives had exempted themselves from Trump’s latest healthcare reform package – dubbed “Zombie Trumpcare” – Colbert urged his viewers to cut the lawmakers some slack. “They all would have lost their coverage, because being a douchebag is a pre-existing condition.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A US commander has declared he isn’t confident that North Korea will refrain from doing “something precipitous”, although he didn’t provide a timetable for the country reaching an “inflection point” in its nuclear capabilities. “I think my pants have reached an inflection point,” Colbert responded to the news. “Because after reading that, I’m not sure I can refrain from doing something precipitous.”At his latest executive order signing ceremony, the president revealed that “sometimes” he looks at the things he’s signing. “Sometimes he looks at the things he’s signing? Sometimes? Just randomly? Not all the time?” Colbert mocked, adding: “Has anyone tried putting a resignation letter in front of him? It’s worth a shot.”The comic also had words for Barack Obama after news broke that the 44th president would be paid $400,000 by a Wall Street firm for a speech. “Hillary wasn’t able to continue Obama’s legacy – but at least Obama was able to continue hers,” was his verdict, adding: “With that kind of money you could join Mar-a-Lago.”On the Daily Show, Trevor Noah offered a defence of Obama’s lucrative speech. “He’s probably going to give a very important policy speech entitled The Four Boats I’m Going to Buy,” the host joked, before adding: “So the first black president must also be the first one to not take money afterwards? No, no, no, my friends. He can’t be the first of everything.”