As many as half of England’s Anglican cathedrals are facing financial crisis and a closure cannot be ruled out, according to the chair of an investigative task force set up by the archbishops of Canterbury and York.Adrian Newman, the bishop of Stepney, said the Cathedrals Working Group would examine the “potential reputational damage done to the church if individual cathedrals fail”. The group, which meets for the first time early next month, will review the governance and financial management of England’s 42 Anglican cathedrals.Former archbishop of Canterbury defends Britain's aid budget Cathedral deans are meeting in London this week as concerns grow about the spiralling costs of running, repairing and maintaining some of the country’s most venerated ancient buildings.“Over the course of the last 100 years, there has never been a time when the cathedral sector has been riding on the crest of a wave,” Newman, a former dean of Rochester Cathedral, told the Guardian. “The challenges are not new, but we’re looking at a new scale and depth at the moment.“My finger-in-the-wind estimate is that perhaps half of cathedrals are facing some significant financial challenges, although pretty much all of them are planning on how they’re going to get through that. Although it seems unimaginable, it is possible to imagine a situation where an individual cathedral could get into a situation so desperate that there is no obvious solution.”Cathedrals attract about 11 million visitors each year, but running costs and maintenance bills are enormous. Only nine charge an entrance fee, with the remaining 33 relying on donations, legacies and grants – and, increasingly, income from commercial activities.“Cathedrals are operating in a world where demand for their services is growing, yet the funding environment is more challenging, the legislative and bureaucratic demands are pretty voracious, and there is no lender of last resort,” said Newman.Public funding had dried up, he added. “There has never been a time over the past 25 to 30 years when we’ve had so little public money going into cathedrals,” he said. “And I think that does need looking at afresh.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Durham Cathedral has an annual deficit of £500,000 and is facing a £40m bill, its dean says. Photograph: fotoMonkee/Getty Images/VettaThe establishment of the Cathedrals Working Group was prompted by a crisis at Peterborough Cathedral which resulted in the acrimonious departure of the dean and several redundancies. A report ordered by the bishop, Donald Allister, called for a review of the 1999 Cathedrals Measure, which governs their running, to determine whether it was fit for purpose almost two decades on.At Exeter, an investigation ordered by the bishop concluded the cathedral was in a parlous financial situation and that a “change of culture among the cathedral leadership” was essential. The dean, Jonathan Draper, is currently on sabbatical and will retire this summer.The possible closure of Guildford Cathedral, consecrated in 1961, was mooted earlier this year after local councillors rejected plans to sell off seven acres of land for 137 homes. The proposal, intended to create a £10m endowment to secure the cathedral’s future, was backed by planning officials and Historic England, but opposed by local residents. Lambeth Palace to get its first new building in 200 years Supporting the sell-off, Justin Welby, the archbishop of Canterbury, told the council the belief that cathedrals’ “very serious financial straits … are not so serious because the central church would ‘rescue’ them before total collapse” was wrong. “This is not the case.”Guildford Cathedral’s running costs are £3,500 per day, while the average visitors’ gift is 35p. In the past three years, almost £7m has been raised from the Heritage Lottery Fund and donations for an enormous project to strip asbestos from the cathedral’s ceiling vaults, improve accessibility and install new lighting and sound systems. Work is due to be completed in July.“As a modern cathedral, we have to work harder to be a destination,” said Susan Barry, its head of fundraising. The dean of another cathedral described it as “a giant crematorium on a hill”.Barry countered: “As soon as you set foot inside the doors, you know why you’re here. There is simplicity, boldness, cleanness and space in the architecture which allows reflection and uncluttered thinking. There is a big wow factor, but also a general lack of understanding of what it takes to maintain such an extraordinarily large and complex building.”Dianna Gwilliams, the dean, said she was deeply disappointed at the planning decision, and the chapter – the cathedral’s governing body – was considering its next steps.“We’re not planning for closure, we’re as busy as ever,” she said. “I think the future is bright, but the task is pretty steep. We have such rich heritage in Britain, and the funding of it is a challenge for everyone.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Guildford Cathedral. Photograph: Loop Images/UIG via Getty ImagesDurham Cathedral has an annual deficit of £500,000 and is facing a £40m bill for repairs to its 900-year-old structures over the next 15 to 20 years, according to its dean, Andrew Tremlett.It attracts 750,000 visitors a year, from whom it raises £150,000 a year in donations. The sum covers running costs of £10,000 a day for just over two weeks.“We’re one of the few historic cathedrals that doesn’t charge for entry,” said Tremlett. Most of Durham’s visitors are from the region. In contrast, 85% of visitors to Westminster Abbey, which charges £20 per adult entrance, are foreign tourists. “There is a sense that this is a people’s cathedral. It’s not a simple thing to charge for entrance when you’re serving a community.”The chapter has a financial strategy to meet the deficit, which includes Open Treasures, a permanent exhibition charting Christian history and culture in the north-east of England, for which there is a £7.50 entrance fee for adults. The exhibition hopes to attract 120,000 visitors a year.“It’s a very challenging situation. Even an immediate dollop of money isn’t the answer; we need a sustainable income. Cathedrals are like the Forth Bridge, you never get to the end of repairs that need to be done,” said Tremlett.The Cathedrals Working Group, whose members include Labour politicians Maeve Sherlock and Jack Straw, is expected to report in December.