1. Donate your dataWe’re all getting used to donating money online and via our phones, but uMotif’s new research project allows you to donate your data. The project, 100 for Parkinson’s, aims to get at least 20,000 people to carry out some simple hand exercises once a day for 100 days, while holding their phone. A specially designed app records your data so that researchers can track the effects of different self-management techniques. Whether or not you have Parkinson’s disease, sign up and contribute directly to research into more effective treatments.2. Grow someone else’s dinnerCommunity growing schemes are a great way to combine exercise and healthy eating, and to meet different people. Plymouth’s Grow, Share, Cook scheme is a great example – volunteers grow food, distribute veg boxes to families in need and to the city’s soup runs and foodbanks, and run cookery classes to encourage healthy eating. 3. Get yourself in shape – along with local green spacesGreen Gyms are invigorating, free outdoor sessions run by The Conservation Volunteers to maintain vulnerable local green spaces that are at risk of being neglected, sold-off, or lost. The sessions include practical activities with an emphasis on health and fitness such as planting trees, sowing meadows and establishing wildlife ponds.4. Share a drink at a homeCocktails in Care Homes runs weekly evening cocktail parties for residents of care homes, their relatives and friends, and care staff. By hosting these parties, volunteers are able to socialise with residents over a drink – offering some light entertainment and much-valued company.Donors to owners: Giving Tuesday puts power into the hands of people who give 5. Sing and dance with people with dementia Organisations such as Lost Chord and Singing for the Brain which is run by the Alzheimer’s Society are unlocking the power of music to support people with dementia. At Nesta, we are testing this model of dementia support and care, through our Helping in Hospitals programme. If you are keen to use your vocal cords for good, find out more here and if you are local to any of the hospitals on this list, reach out to their volunteer team.6. Share your homeShared Lives matches people in need of care with people willing to provide it in their own home. About 8,000 Shared Lives carers across the UK share their homes and family life with more than 10,000 adults with significant support needs who either visit regularly or move in to live as part of the family. People are carefully matched for compatibility and visited regularly to check that the arrangement is working well for everyone involved.7. Take your first aid skills to the streetsIf, like me, you’re a trained first aider, you’ve probably never had to deal with much more than a cut finger or a sprain at the office. But London Ambulance Service recently rolled out the GoodSAM app, which alerts registered, first aid trained volunteers when there is an emergency nearby – and tells them where the nearest defibrillator is too. All you need is a smartphone, and skills you may never have got to use could help save a life.8. Share your professional skillsYour professional knowledge could be the most valuable thing you have to give. There are heaps of opportunities for IT and tech volunteering, especially with young people, such as running a Code Club in a local primary school. The Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development also runs the Steps Ahead mentoring programme, which links HR professionals with unemployed young people to provide them with advice on getting into work.9. Join the crowdThere’s an explosion of new, mostly web-based organisations, harnessing the collective power of lots of individual contributions. These include crowdfunding sites like Crowdfunder and JustGiving, which pool small donations to fund bigger projects. You might be able to make your money go further by investing through a crowd lending site – some, such as Crowdcube, now feature a special category of “ethical” investments, while others like Zopa make low-interest loans to people who can’t get credit from the bank. Of course, like any investment, there’s no guarantee you’ll get your money back. Keeping families together 10. Share your ideas to change the worldIf you don’t want to give money, you can share your ideas for solutions to big social challenges on crowdsourcing sites like OpenIDEO, which gathers ideas on issues from helping impoverished communities cope with climate change to cultivating young people’s creativity. Nesta regularly runs challenges which anyone can enter, awarding a cash prize for the best idea, such as the Longitude Prize which hopes to tackle antibiotic resistance.And finally, if you already volunteer or support a cause that matters to you, one of the best things you can do this #GivingTuesday is to encourage your neighbours, friends and family to join you. Use social media to share your story and explain why you give.For more news, opinions and ideas about the voluntary sector, join our community.