In 1993, I was working on a project about life in the Olomouc region of Czechoslovakia. One day, I came to the village of Dlouhá Loučka-Křivá and went into a courtyard where I saw two old people, a husband and wife, sawing firewood for winter. They were working quietly, concentrating. I watched them fetch a beam from a wrecked barn, but they didn’t discuss how they planned to carry it to the saw. The woman faced one way, the man the other. When they realised, the woman eventually turned and followed her husband.The picture I took is the picture of many relationships – when each partner wants something different, but they have to come to an agreement, pull together eventually. The shot was shown in many countries, from the US to Brazil and Japan, and everyone understood it.I try not to present villages in a romantic way, like photographers from cities usually do. Nevertheless, in the years after the 1989 Velvet Revolution, even the villages of Czechoslovakia started to change: facades were repaired, interiors updated, new leaders won new elections, religion became more relaxed. When my father gave me the money for a camera, I had to promise​ not to smoke for 10 years I grew up in the town of Vsetin. My father loved photography and made some interesting work, but it was just for fun. He worked as a teacher in village schools. When I said I wanted to buy a camera, he told me a memorable thing: “I will give you money for it, but you have to promise you won’t smoke for 10 years.” This hurt me a bit, because I’d never smoked. But he wanted me to make a few promises before I left for university.I got interested in documentary photography and took part in a student exhibition. After setting it all up, I went to the cinema and a pretty girl sat next to me. I was wondering about how to ask her for a date. So I asked her to the show. We’ve been together ever since, celebrating our 50th anniversary last year.In 1982, I started photographing flags, portraits of the president, and symbols like the hammer and sickle. I framed them ironically, alongside mess, adverts, wrecked houses or sacred buildings. It was a mild protest, but I was given a 10-month suspended sentence for defamation of the president and the republic.But I’m a patriot: I love my homeland, the landscape, every person. I want to capture their lives. I’ve shot everything: drug addicts, patients, blind men, rural life, old people, Roma, sick children, wheelchair users, smokers, alcoholics. I took pictures in psychiatric hospitals. I’m a socially committed photographer and I’m not ashamed of it. Ordinary life is everlasting.Jindrich Streit’s CV      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mess, adverts, wrecked houses … Jindrich StreitBorn: Vsetin, Czechoslovakia, 1946Studied: Academy of Performing Arts, Prague.Influences: “My father and a professor called Jan Bukovjan.”High point: “Every day when I have an opportunity to take pictures.”Low point: “When I meet a person I would like to take a picture of, but they don’t want me to.”Top tip: “Don’t try to imitate.”