On 20 November, satellites captured this image of fresh snow that had fallen along the Himalayan range in central Asia. The moisture for snowfall in this part of the range is delivered primarily by the summer monsoon. The mountains form a natural barrier that blocks monsoonal moisture from reaching the Tibetan plateau to the north. This makes the plains south of the mountains green with vegetation, while much of the plateau is brown and comparatively barren. Haze over India is visible in the south-west corner of the image, most likely from fires set in preparation for crop sowing.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: VIIRS/Suomi NPP/NASAThe state of Punjab is known for being India’s breadbasket. One of the byproducts of such intensive food production is smoke. In November, farmers typically harvest rice and sow wheat. After the harvest, they often set fire to leftover plant debris to clear fields for the next plantings, a practice known as stubble or paddy burning. On 5 November, stubble fires were widespread. In this image, red outlines show the approximate locations of active burning, and fields generally appear brown. The fires release several types of particles and gases into the atmosphere, including smog-forming carbon monoxide, and nitrogen dioxide. Haze that forms over the Punjab rarely stays there. While the fires burn, smoke often blankets much of the Indo-Gangetic Plain, exposing millions of people in the densely populated plain to elevated levels of air pollution.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: EUMETSAT/NASATropical cyclone Chapala in the Gulf of Aden, taken by on 2 November. For the first time since records were started in the 1940s, a tropical cyclone made landfall in Yemen.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: OLI/Landsat 8/NASAGiven the arid, vegetation-sparse, and rocky landscape of the desert nation, the rainfall from Chapala posed a dire threat, with as many as 1 million people affected. False-colour images show the flooded regions of eastern Yemen before the landfall of Chapala (left) and after (right).In the righthand image, shades of blue and green reveal areas with standing or flowing water; reds often indicate vegetation. Much of the region is marked by ephemeral river beds, or wadis, such as Wadi al Masilah. A line of green dots — likely pooled water — trails south and west from the Wadi toward the coast, perhaps through smaller stream beds. Near the coast, several kilometres of land are inundated with water, perhaps from the rainfall or from a storm surge.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: MODIS/Terra/NASAAs spring advances in the Antarctic the lengthening sunlight days brings rising temperatures, melting sea ice and extended, excellent views of the region from space. In this true-colour image of the Mawson and Ingrid Christensen coasts, the reflectivity of snow and ice is very high while the ocean water appears nearly black. Icebergs float in the waters near the coast and further away from shore, thin filigrees of white mark thinner sea ice. Some ice appears faintly blue - it has absorbed some water as it begins to melt. In the north-west and north-east sections of the image cloud banks over the sea ice. Their colour is similar to ice but the pattern is typical of clouds.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: MODIS/Aqua/NASAIcebergs that break off from Antarctica can stay afloat in the Southern Ocean for years. These images, acquired on 27 November, show an array of bergs floating offshore of South Georgia Island, more than 1,600km (1,000 miles) east-north-east of South America’s southern tip. Some of them appear to be making waves — in the atmosphere. Just as a ship leaves behind a V-shaped wake in the water, tall bergs can leave behind similar wake in low-level clouds. ‘Cloud wakes are most evident in the lee of the two larger icebergs,’ said Kelly Brunt, a glaciologist at Nasa’s Goddard Space Flight Center. ‘But you also can see this behind one of the smaller icebergs, just south of the largest iceberg.’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: MODIS/Aqua/NASAA cloud vortex above sea ice off Heard Island in the Indian Ocean, about two-thirds of the way from Madagascar to Antarctica. As the rushing wind hits against the tall peaks found on Heard Island, it is forced around the obstacle then swirls back towards the centre of the original line of flow, creating eddies on the lee side of the island. Rugged and mountainous and mostly covered with ice, the island is uninhabited by humans, although it is home to many birds and seals. It is also home to an active volcano, Mawson Peak. The island has been a territory of Australia since 1947.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: OLI/Landsat 8/NASAHawaii’s Mauna Loa is the largest active volcano on Earth and last erupted in 1984. In September 2015, volcanologists raised an alert after detecting an increase in the number of shallow earthquakes near the summit and the upper south-west rift zone. The elongated crater in the centre of this image is the summit caldera. Lava flows appear black; as they age, they fade and become grey. Very little vegetation appears on the summit of Mauna Loa because of the frequent lava flows and the high elevation.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: MODIS/Terra/NASANasa’s Terra satellite passed over South Australia and captured this true-colour image of the dry desert region. The tans and reds of the arid landscape form a beautiful backdrop to a number of bright white salt pans. In the western section is Lake Eyre, Australia’s largest salt lake, and – when it fills with water – also the largest lake in Australia. Dry weather – which is the rule – means much less water and much of the salt pan becomes hard, crusty and starkly white. The lake in the centre is Kati Thanda. When seasonal rains come to the lake it becomes a haven for birds such as Australian pelicans, red-necked avocets, and other water birds.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: Sentinel-2A/ESAThe capital of Egypt, Cairo is one of the largest cities in Africa and located on the banks of the Nile River, the longest in the world. The river is the cause of the strong contrasts we see in the image. The sharp borderline between green fields and the yellow–brown desert is clear. Along the well-irrigated shoreline, the green reveals the thick vegetation, while the grey areas denote the dense city. In the older areas to the east, however, brown and ochre are the dominant colours. A new city in the desert can be seen on the left side of the image, as well as numerous golf courses and the international airport, partly visible on the top right.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: ASTER/Terra/NASABotswana ranks among the world’s top producers of gem-quality diamonds. Many of Botswana’s diamonds come from the four mines shown in this image. The oldest and largest of the four openpit mines — Orapa (opened in 1971) — appears in the upper left quadrant. Letlhakane, the second largest, opened in 1975 and appears on the lower right. Damtshaa, in the upper centre, opened in 2003. Karowe, in the lower left, opened in 2012.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: MODIS/Terra/NASAThe Aegean Sea sits between two peninsulas, the Balkan Peninsula to the west and the Anatolian Peninsula on the east. Greece sits at the southern end of the Balkan Peninsula while Turkey covers the Anatolian Peninsula. The blue waters of the Aegean Sea can be seen between Greece and Turkey and is dotted with many islands. Known as the Aegean Islands, most of these belong to Greece. The large island to the south is the island of Crete, the largest and most heavily populated of the Greek Islands. To the north-east lies the Black Sea, while the Mediterranean Sea lies in the south.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: ISS/NASAUsing a high-magnification lens, an astronaut photographed almost the entire 10.5km-long (6.5 mile) Manihiki Island, which lies in the middle of the Pacific Ocean in the remote Cook Island chain. From space, Manihiki has the hallmarks of a classic atoll, with its fringing coral reef and a central lagoon. The coral lives in the warm, shallow waters which appear as the light blue zones around the main coastline and the numerous small islets within the lagoon. Most of the main atoll is made of sandy beaches without vegetation; it appears white or cream due to dead coral broken up by waves. Soils develop on the highest parts of these beaches, supporting dense stands of dark green trees. A few clouds cast shadows on the water. Two small towns — Tauhunu and Tukao — appear as clusters of small bright patches etched into the forest.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: OLI/Landsat 8/NASAOn 5 November 5, 2015, two dams collapsed in south-eastern Brazil, sending a torrent of mining sludge through the village of Bento Rodrigues. The muddy floodwaters from an iron ore mining operation destroyed hundreds of homes, killed some residents, and left others missing. The left image shows the village and the surrounding region on 11 October; the right image shows the area on 12 November. The effects of the flooding were felt far beyond Bento Rodrigues. The image shows multiple rivers, far from the village, that remained swollen with wastewater and mud. East of this image, in Barra Longa — a village about 80km from the dams — the river surged as much as 15m and flooded homes. As health officials conducted tests, cities as far as 300km downstream lost access to drinking water.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: NOAA Photograph: NOAAThis image shows the satellite sea surface temperature for October 2015. Orange-red colours are above-normal temperatures and are indicative of El Niño, a phenomenon caused by warmer than average waters in the Eastern equatorial Pacific. This event is forecast to continue through the winter, likely ranking as one of the top three strongest events since 1950, before fading in late spring or early summer. El Niño has already produced significant global impacts, and is expected to affect temperature and precipitation patterns across the United States during the upcoming months.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: MODIS/Terra/NASA Photograph: MODIS/Terra/NASAParts of Canada and the western United States were doused with wintery weather on 12 November, after snow blanketed the southern Canadian plains.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: ISS/NASAThe north end of the Suez Canal, along with the city centres and port facilities of Port Said and Port Fuad. Local ship traffic takes on and discharges cargo at the angular shaped docks. A long breakwater protects ships in canal from the prevailing westerly winds and waves that blow across the canal entrance. Muddy, light-brown water from the Nile delta banks up against the west side of the breakwater.Both ports lie on the west fork of the canal. The east fork was specifically built to allow ships on long hauls — typically between Europe and Asia, via the Mediterranean Sea — to avoid congestion at the west-fork ports. In 2014, Egypt announced plans to ease congestion by digging another canal parallel to the present one; canal tolls provide much needed foreign exchange for Egypt.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: VIIRS/Suomi NPP/NASAAs world leaders converged on Paris for a United Nations conference on climate change, residents of Beijing and other cities in eastern China faced the most severe air pollution the nation has seen in 2015. The image shows extensive haze, low clouds, and fog over north-eastern China, 30 November. The brightest areas are clouds or fog, which have tinges of grey or yellow because of the air pollution. Other cloud-free areas have a pall of grey haze that mostly blots out the cities below. In areas where the ground is visible, some of the landscape is covered with snow. The haze extended south-west from Beijing for hundreds of kilometres and was particularly dense in low-lying areas in the Guanzhong Plain.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: OLI/Landsat 8/NASACities produce 70% of anthropogenic global carbon dioxide emissions. The 50 largest cities together emit greenhouse gases equivalent to 2,600 megatonnes of carbon dioxide per year - more than some countries. Meanwhile, many cities around the world are growing at astounding rates. Recognizing their impact on climate, some megacities have taken aggressive steps to curtail emissions. By 2030, the GreenLA plan aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from Los Angeles by 35% (in comparison to 1990 levels).       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: OLI/Landsat 8/NASAThe Paris agreement, signed by nearly 200 nations in the French capital on 12 December, aims to reduce emissions by 25% by 2020 (in comparison to 2004 levels). 