The majority of boys who view online pornography believe it provides a realistic depiction of sex, according to the most extensive survey of British secondary school pupils undertaken.Research published on Wednesday reveals that most children – 94% – who have seen online pornography have been exposed to it by the age of 14. But the study also found that almost half of the 1,000 11- to 16-year-olds questioned had never seen internet pornography – findings that are in contrast to many other studies.It also revealed that children have a different understanding of sexting than adults and policymakers. The research found that children understand sexting as the sending of intimate messages, rather than images, and the vast majority of children questioned did not report having taken naked images of themselves.The study, commissioned by the children’s commissioner and the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, is said to be the most detailed examination of children’s exposure and response to online pornography. The research was carried out by academics from Middlesex University, involved children from all over the UK, and included a survey and follow-up focus groups.The majority of children questioned, 53%, said they had viewed online pornography, and while some chose to seek it out, they were as likely to have come across it by accident, often via pop-up ads.Tories promise to enforce age limits on online pornography  Of those who had viewed the material, 53% of boys said they believed it presented a realistic depiction of sex, while 39% of girls thought the images were realistic.Approximately 41% of children who reported seeing pornography felt “curious” the first time they viewed it, which was the most common response. However, more negative feelings such as being shocked (27%), confused (24%) or disgusted (23%) were also experienced.One girl in the 11- to 12-year-old age category told the researchers: “I didn’t like it because it came on by accident and I don’t want my parents to find out and the man looked like he was hurting her, he was holding her down and she was screaming and swearing. I know about sex but it didn’t look nice. It makes me feel sick if I think about my parents doing it like that.”Children talked about how they had been shocked at first by the images they saw, but how internet pornography had been normalised. One teenage girl in the 13- to 14-year-old category said: “Because young people are now open to seeing this kind of stuff you get used to it so it’s not as shocking but I still think it’s disgusting and degrading.”Boys in particular wanted to copy some of the behaviour they had seen. More than a third (39%) of 13- to 14-year-olds who responded to this question – and a fifth of 11- to 12-year-olds (21%) – wanted to try out the behaviour they had viewed. But more than three quarters of respondents agreed that pornography did not help them understand consent (87% of boys and 77% of girls).Dr Elena Martellozzo from Middlesex University, co-author of the study, said: “Although many children did not report seeing online pornography, it is worrying that some children came across it accidentally and could be sent it without seeking it. “If boys believe that online pornography provides a realistic view of sexual relationships, then this may lead to inappropriate expectations of girls and women. Girls too may feel pressured to live up to these unrealistic, and perhaps non-consensual, interpretations of sex. This is clearly not positive for developing future healthy relationships.” A number of girls said they were worried about how pornography would make boys see girls and the possible impact on attitudes to sex and relationships.Six of the best sex education programmes around the world “It can make a boy not look for love, just look for sex and it can pressure us girls to act and look and behave in a certain way before we might be ready for it,” said one 13-year-old girl. One boy in the study said: “One of my friends has started treating women like he sees on the videos – not major – just a slap here or there.”The children said lessons in school which explored the issues surrounding pornography could help them understand the importance of respectful relationships, but they said sex and relationship education was patchy and did not cover pornography effectively.Peter Wanless, the chief executive of the NSPCC, said: “Exposing children to porn at a young age before they are equipped to cope with it can be extremely damaging. Industry and government need to take more responsibility to ensure that young people are protected. Age-appropriate sex and relationship education in schools, dealing with issues such as online pornography and children sending indecent images, are crucial.”Russell Hobby general secretary of the school leaders Union NAHT said: “Age appropriate Sex and Relationships Education (SRE) provides a safe space for the discussion of issues affecting pupils, including online safety, positive relationships, consent, sexting and pornography.“Currently however, discussing these difficult topics with children – especially when they are young – can take courage and this shouldn’t have to be the case; the government should back teachers by making PSHE a statutory part of the curriculum.”• The subheading on this article was amended on 15 June 2016. An earlier version said research showed that 94% of children had viewed online pornography by age 14; in fact it showed that 94% of those children who had seen online pornography did so by the age of 14.