Innovation is a difficult concept to define. Often used as a synonym for originality or novelty, it’s a term that has been cheapened by its wholesale application to objects, concepts and people. Is innovation the way in which we restlessly subvert the norm? And how do we make this known: merely by shouting the loudest or being the first to be heard?Music writers often use “innovative” as a placeholder, an easy label for new sounds that haven’t yet been neatly categorised. Every now and then, however, innovation is what defines the artist. It may be frustratingly indefinable, but no other adjective seems to fit quite as well. Think of Bowie, think of Prince, think of Stevie. Think of Kashif, who died on 25 September. Kashif was born Michael Jones in New York City – reports about him can’t seem to agreed on whether it was on Boxing Day in 1956 or 1959. He was placed in care at the age of four, after his mother was imprisoned, then abused as he was moved between eight different foster homes. But the purchase of a $3 flute when he was a child allowed him to show a natural aptitude for music, and he joined the popular funk band BT Express as keyboard player in his teens. “I went to junior high and high school with a woman named Sandy Davis. Wherever I was playing at, she would come and see me play,” he told Wax Poetics. “She just enjoyed the music. She was the one who told her father, King Davis, who managed BT Express, to put me in the band. This is how I became a part of the band. She told her father, ‘Look. I want you to put Michael in the band.’ My name was Michael at the time. She meant everything to her father, so he came looking for me. I was 15 when I joined the band.”    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It was here that he adopted the name Kashif, having found it in a book of Islamic names belonging to the band’s bass player, Jamal Rasool. Kashif means “discoverer”, “pioneer”, or “revealer” – all suitable descriptions of Kashif in the following decade. He left BT Express in 1978, first to play with Stephanie Mills, then with the intention of being a bandleader himself. But his demos caught the ear of Robert Wright of RCA, who decided he wanted him to produce Evelyn “Champagne” King. “In terms of having an intention and finding a style, I never really thought about it, I just did what I did,” he said earlier this year. “I think there were influences from bands like Earth, Wind & Fire and Weather Report. The jazz band Weather Report had such a huge influence on my sense of space and organisation. I didn’t really sit down and say, ‘OK, I want to make this my sound.’ I just made music, and when I started having hits, that sort of said to me, ‘OK, maybe you should keep going in this direction.’”Crucial to his sound, though, was the invention of the Synklavier, the first sampler, which enabled him to put any sound he wanted on his records, and, as he later said, manipulate those sounds “in ways nobody had ever heard before … The end result was the music I created.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The hits he made with King – notably Love Come Down – attracted the attention of Clive Davis of Arista Records, who brought Kashif in to work on the first album by a young protege of his. Kashif took a song that had been rejected by Roberta Flack, retooled it for his new client, and Whitney Houston’s career as a mainstream superstar was born with You Give Good Love. His production work was both ahead of the game and ahead of its time – sparse and spacious, using drum machines and synthesisers rather than percussionists and horns – and led to a string of hits for King and Howard Johnson before the call came from Davis. “I guess the Kashif sound is the quality and pristine nature of the recording and the space where I put certain instruments within an individual piece,” he told Wax Poetics.But Kashif was never going to settle for being a backroom toiler. Alongside that pioneering production work, he developed a solo career. His self-titled debut LP in 1983, contained I Just Gotta Have You (Lover Turn Me On), which helped define the early 80s boogie sound. Disco had died a protracted death in the late 70s, the result of major labels pushing it towards the white mainstream and away from its subversive origins. Boogie, however, slowed and refined the key elements of disco, revitalising it for the 80s audience. Through combining the bass-heavy instrumentation of disco with a minimal injection of proto-electronic drum machine and synthesiser, boogie provided a bridge to the later sounds of electro and house, influencing the likes of house pioneers such as Larry Levan and Francois K.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Kashif went on to release a spate of solo albums throughout the 80s, as well as producing the Stylistics, Jermaine Jackson and Kenny G and more. In the 90s he increasingly shifted his focus towards music education and activism to help improve the lives of those in foster care. That impulse to help others cemented Kashif’s legacy not only as a pioneer of boogie and modern R&B music but as a believer in the healing power of music and the strength of the individual. Kashif wasn’t one of pop’s superstars during his lifetime, despite his impact on 80s pop. But we can preserve his story and remember him for the quiet persistence and inventiveness that makes him a true innovator. “I think that we as artists, we’re explorers,” he said earlier this year. “We are frontiersmen. We don’t want to sit back, and make the same record over and over again. I think that that’s the thing that I’ve enjoyed about my career … being on the frontier. Always looking for the next thing that will help define who I am.”