I’ve been talking to Margaret Meehan for less than five minutes when a faded 1970s photograph of a dining table flashes up on her laptop. At the table are seated seven poodles in party hats. Eating cake. It is hilarious and unsettling. I start to laugh.Meehan has just got off an 11-hour flight from Texas, with the contents of her new exhibition packed into her suitcase like contraband. Reading up on her feminist politics and riot grrl background, and looking at her sculptures and collages online, I was expecting a towering, ripped-and-ready punk woman, possibly in a Society for Cutting Up Men T-shirt. But Meehan is petite, dressed in black sweatshirt and jeans, her voice as soft as peach. She introduces me to Noah Simblist, her husband and collaborator, before walking over to the chest in the corner where her art is laid out.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Red-nailed power salute … We Shall Overcome (2015) by Margaret Meehan. Photograph: Margaret Meehan, courtesy of Flowers Gallery There ​always ​need​s to be individuals ​willing to try and push forward against the backlash and resistance The first thing you notice is the pink. From the paint-daubed cabinet cards of vintage beauties to the huge porcelain hand in a red-nailed power salute, to a collage of what looks like Cousin It’s better-groomed sister, there is a lot on show. “I love pink,” laughs Meehan. “In high school I was sort of the punk girl pushing against its girly associations. But I got over that; I found a book called Pink in Contemporary Art and it showed me how subversive that colour’s been. I was using pink as a bruise; as pus and blood.” For a 2011 show in which she reimagined the hairy-faced 19th-century hypertrichosis sufferer Alice Doherty as a powerful female boxer, Meehan learned to do prosthetics, giving her Doherty model a split lip and broken eyelid. Pink, yes, but certainly not pretty.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A twist on the Elephant Man … Ruth Gordon (2015). Photograph: Margaret Meehan, courtesy of Flowers Gallery“The first images I found of Doherty were her as a daughter, with her mother,” says Meehan. “They weren’t on the freak show circuit; these weren’t showcards. Then I found out that as a teenager she’d moved to Dallas and I started thinking about how it would have felt in her body, covered in hair, with no air-conditioning, in those Victorian clothes. Imagine the heat, the rashes, the weight of all that. It reminded me to treat her as a woman, not a spectacle.”Meehan grew up in Pennsylvania and got what she calls a mediocre education before ending up at art school. There she discovered third-wave feminism, met Noah, and started making sculpture and collage. More often than not, her art focuses on women who have been depicted as monsters for their beliefs. Meehan draws on cinema (the film Rosemary’s Baby features highly), music and popular culture, but also family folklore and old lady handicrafts. “All of my work deals with the idea of otherness and people on the fringe,” says Meehan, standing somewhere around my armpit. Her latest prompt: Wendy Davis’s2014 filibuster over abortion law. “It got me thinking that, as a society, we’re always taking two steps forward, one step back. Although there is progress, there need to be those individuals willing to try and push forward, against the backlash and the resistance.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Feminist slogans … I Can Bring Home the Bacon (2015). Photograph: Margaret Meehan, courtesy of Flowers GalleryIn her new show – part of Flowers Gallery’s Artist of the Day series – Meehan is bringing together a few examples of those rebellious individuals: those cabinet cards of suffragettes from the turn of the last century, given glitzy collage makeovers; a hilarious dress, dowling, rod-and-wig recreation of Nancy Sinatra in the video for These Boots Are Made for Walking; and a reimagining of Joseph Merrick, aka the Elephant Man, played by 70s film star Ruth Gordon. Meehan likes to think of all these movements happening at once: “The right to give women the vote in the 1800s, women playing a prominent role in popular culture in the 1970s and women rebelling again in the 90s.” Expanding on the Elephant Man idea a little further, she says: “Joseph Merrick, who grew up around the corner in Whitechapel, was considered sort of non-gendered. So I thought: what if Ruth Gordon had been cast in the film? Her two major roles were as the angel-like Holocaust survivor Maude in Harold and Maude; and this devil worshipper in Rosemary’s Baby. So she totally could have. It’s sort of surreal and funny, but there’s also something there connecting all those ideas.”In the cabinet card series, Meehan literally paints over old photographs of women – many of them women of colour – with feminist slogans of the 1970s like Eve Was Robbed or I Can Bring Home the Bacon. How did she feel about putting her brushstrokes over these women? “I do always worry,” she says, gently sliding the cards out of their paper wrapping. “But I’m trying to use empathy and attention to honour the sitters. Because these cards were mass produced in such abundance, and I’m finding them being sold off in estate sales, it feels like they’ve been abandoned. I’m giving them a second life, almost like I’m adopting them as a second family.”Cut and paste and snap: the new collage photography – in pictures Collage as an artform is often overlooked as child’s play, something you give to kids to keep their sticky fingers busy. But in this context, the overlaying of image and meaning takes on a different significance. “It’s accessible, it’s tangible and tactile, but it also involves taking informed choices,” says Meehan, citing Hannah Höch and Raoul Hausmann as influences. “Once you glue that glitter on, that’s it.”As we sit in the kitchen of Flowers Gallery, a plate of strawberries and flat peaches between us, Meehan tells me she’s starting to look at 1950s horror films, and how they came about as a reaction to soldiers coming back from war with body deformities. “Concepts of ‘normal’ are so malleable. Just by moving from one room to another you can go from being in the majority to a minority,” she reflects. “That’s why it’s important to see and study the other. One day you might be the other yourself.”• Margaret Meehan is at Flowers Gallery, London on 24 June – its Artist of the Day series runs until 2 July