It’s the day of the Oscar nominations and Adam McKay has been up since dawn, making waffles. Friends and colleagues from The Big Short had come over for the Hollywood equivalent of a prayer breakfast as they waited to hear if their satire on the banking crash would get acknowledged by the Academy. “We made waffles, had juice and then just prayed we weren’t the biggest group of fools in the world and we would get at least one nomination.” In the end, they got five, including best picture, and McKay himself had his name read out twice, in the directing and adapted screenplay categories. “So, yeah,” he says, “everyone was in a very good mood.”The Big Short review: Ryan Gosling and Brad Pitt struggle to sell financial crisis If you listen to McKay tell it, then the critical success of The Big Short was never in doubt. An adaptation of super-business scribe Michael Lewis’s book of the same name, it was the best book he’d read in a decade. It tells the story of the disparate men (and yes, they’re all men) who smelled something fishy in the US housing market, then bet against it in the run-up to the crash of 2008. Christian Bale plays the antisocial introvert Dr Michael Burry, who also happens to be an instinctive genius when it comes to spotting overpriced goods. Steve Carell is Mark Baum, an antisocial introvert who also happens to, well, the same again really, though he does it at a pitch of permanent biliousness. “Michael Lewis writes in such an entertaining way,” says McKay. The quality of the source material made it easy to land his big-name cast (Ryan Gosling and Brad Pitt also star, while Margot Robbie makes a bubblebath-based cameo). “Yes, the actors were curious and furious about the subject material,” he continues, “but in addition to that I would say that these are incredible characters to play.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Watch a video reviewThe source material may have been strong but that didn’t mean adapting it would be a doddle. However rich and involving they may be, these characters still spend most of the film arguing about such sexy, approachable topics as CDOs and CDSs: collateralised debt obligations and credit default swaps. A scene set in Vegas is pretty much 10 minutes of exposition about complicated financial instruments.The Big Short offers highest rate of return for credit-crunch genre Previous Hollywood attempts to address the financial crisis, like the drama Margin Call or documentary Inside Job, have struggled to cut through to mainstream audiences. “I like Margin Call a lot, but I don’t think any movie has done what we’ve done,” says McKay. “It certainly helps when you have well-known Hollywood actors, but we were able to use style and surprise to keep an audience going along with us. You can tell this story in one of two ways. You could deliver it as a downer. Or you could say it’s exciting to know what’s really going on. The biggest thing I see [in audiences] is this hunger to know. A lot of people lost houses and jobs and most people still, in our country at least, didn’t really know why.” McKay says much of the reason for this ignorance must be laid at the feet of the US media: “They didn’t even try to explain it.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anchored man: Adam McKay. Photograph: Rich FuryMcKay had been desperate to adapt the Big Short for the big screen ever since reading it. But, for a long time, the opportunity seemed unlikely. The director, after all, has a reputation for making films in a very different genre; namely the absurd, foul-mouthed, Will Ferrell in his pants, screaming like a baboon genre. McKay was a summa cum laude graduate of America’s comedy finishing school: he was a performer at Chicago’s Second City, then head writer for Saturday Night Live (when he left, he encouraged a Chicago friend to submit scripts; she took his advice and Tina Fey has done all right since). The Big Short: how Wall Street's crimes have been portrayed by Hollywood Hooking up with Ferrell, he went on to make Anchorman, Step Brothers, Talladega Nights, The Other Guys and Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues. All copper-bottomed hits, but not the sort of thing that might be described as “challenging”. He went on to co-found comedy website Funny Or Die with Ferrell; while perhaps the best (and only) indication that he was the man to make the film that blew the lid off Wall Street was the fact their company, Gary Sanchez Productions, is named after an imaginary “Paraguayan entrepreneur and financier”.Whatever the ins and outs of how he came to make The Big Short (McKay denies rumours that he promised to make a third Anchorman if he was granted the project), it’s McKay’s flair for comedy that makes the film work. “We were never really looking for laughs in any scene, we were never thinking: ‘Oh this will be funny,’” he says. “But we were looking for pacing and energy. And you’ve heard it a million times, but 80% of comedy is about timing and pacing.” So the film’s opening half bursts with antic energy as the A-list leads start putting together the pieces of a mortgage-based mystery.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   McKay and Carell talk about the filmMcKay upped the ante further by improvising certain moments, a skill he has used since his days at Second City. “Even for stuff that’s more dramatic, improv loosens the actors up and I wanted a little bit of sloppiness in this movie,” he says. “I wanted people occasionally talking over each other and making mistakes.” On top of that, McKay made Gosling’s banker Jared Vennett the film’s de facto narrator, allowing him to break the fourth wall and talk to the audience. On top of that again there are elements of collage: a cut to celebrity chef Anthony Bourdain explaining CDOs in his kitchen, or a montage of Ludacris videos to make a point about avarice. Apparently inspired by the poet John Dos Passos, it turns parts of the film into something between a film, a music video and a YouTube supercut.It turned out the comic’s approach was a good way to crack open a difficult story. But The Big Short is also an example of changing times in cinema. In the Oscars’ best picture category, McKay’s business comedy-drama sits alongside an emotional indie horror thriller (Room) and a two-hour surrealist car chase (Mad Max: Fury Road). According to McKay, much like in music, genres are beginning to fall away. “They’re a byproduct of an older era,” he says. “Art is about surprise and revelation and genres get too restrictive. They get rid of surprise and people are so savvy now, thanks to the internet. I don’t think there’s any way we could have made The Big Short the way we made it now, 30 years ago. It would have been too much, it would have played like an experimental German film or something. Nowadays, no problem! We’re playing this movie in Kansas and people get it.”The Big Short is in cinemas now