Like many Apple events before it, September’s event didn’t introduce any new technologies or products, but that’s not to say what was announced isn’t worth investigating.Unlike other innovative companies, Apple doesn’t tend to lead the market, but it drives changes in behaviour like nobody else – that’s why what Apple does is vital for marketers to understand.Apple didn’t invent the MP3 player, but the iPod and iTunes changed music forever. Apple didn’t invent the smartphone, but the App Store and touchscreen changed our lives. While Apple Pay or the Apple Watch haven’t changed our lives yet, they have shone a light into the future that we’d be wise not to ignore.Here are some of the main announcements Apple made, and what marketers might make of it:iOS9 and ad blockingiOS9 doesn’t include ad blocking but it will allow people to enable it in a simple way, which will clean up the design of sites, reduce privacy concerns and speed up page loading.What lies behind the boom in mobile adblocking? While ad blocking is common in some markets and demographics, iOS9 could lead to a rapid and widespread adoption of the technology. It’s hard to predict the uptake, but marketers should note that it’s likely to make in-app adverts more desirable (since they are harder to block). It should also make insidious advertising like native and product placement more popular as the blockers can’t separate content from ads. In addition, one should expect many workarounds to be created, from companies seeking to produce branded content to the use of pre-rolls and other “bundling” mechanisms. Apple could also see iAd become more popular. This means Apple would create a problem and solve it.Ad blocking won’t kill publishers or make mobile ad units impossible, but they will bring about a lot of workarounds, hacks and creative solutions.Apple NewsThere have been interesting movements in the content business as content makers and distributors try to own the customer interface. What Apple News does, like Facebook Instant Articles, is offer a premium aggregated environment where the most relevant and recent news, from other people, is bubbled up to a faster, slicker, interface layer. It’s a genius move, as it allows distribution mechanisms to make no content, but share in the monetisation of it.Do Facebook, Twitter and Google offer news publishers salvation? Marketers should note two things. First, this will become a whole new environment in which to place ads and Apple will create a premium environment for brand building, iAds. Second, this will drive businesses to think about how they can make money from providing a thin service layer in the battle of the customer interface.A thinner, tactile webiOS 9 has 3D touch, which allows users to browse the internet in a more immerse and seamless way. This is a sign of a change in how we see the web. For years it’s been up to the user to explore; we’ve had to search, click, open new windows or click on options to go deeper into the web. What we see with iOS 9 is the web coming to us; we will see content bubble up in one layer. From haptic feedback to app deep-linking, to invisible apps that run in the background or voice-controlled apps, the web is becoming a more personal, more interconnected, thinner internet where friction is being removed. It’s this environment that we need to design products and advertising for. How do we create ads that are dynamic? How do we create adverts or content that offer different experiences depending on how we interact with them?Apple TVApple TV wasn’t a big leap forward because the television industry is dragging its feet. What Apple TV has shown is a movement away from TV stations and channels, and even set-top boxes, to a world where search and discovery, and the user interface become vital and the pipes disappear into the background. One thing is certain, TV is becoming a digital video environment. It’s happening slowly, but Apple TV is putting pressure on the industry. In this new world, TV ads change and audiences are bought, not shows. Ads are dynamically inserted, new calls to actions are possible and adverts can create sequential stories. It’s an exciting medium-term future.iPad ProFor years desktops and laptops – with Excel and PowerPoint – and large desks to place them on have been our tools. A bigger, more powerful tablet in theory means we can finally let our tools shape how we work. It’s incredible to think how different the world and our jobs could be if we based them around the tablet. Now this is possible. Meetings with online dashboards, not Excel. Car rental desks removed and replaced by people who come to us. Doctors’ medical notes, students’ notebooks. This is the beginning of a new way to think about the world. For years business has slowly adapted to the digital world: we’ve taken online and historical behaviour and mapped it to new technology. We’re now seeing a world where the internet is pervasive, thin and omnipresent, where all media is digital, where everything is connected and where value lies in aggravation. Let’s start creating business for this post-digital age, as Apple and others carve a path into it.Tom Goodwin is senior vice-president of strategy and innovation at Havas Media USTo get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media Network membership.All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled “Advertisement feature”. Find out more here.