One of the most recognisable and reproduced paintings of Scotland, Sir Edwin Landseer’s Monarch of the Glen, has been acquired for the country after a £4m fundraising campaign.It was announced in Edinburgh on Friday that a threat of the painting being sold abroad had been averted.The grandiose painting had initially been offered for sale at auction last November by its owner, Diageo, the multinational drinks company. That spurred the National Galleries of Scotland into action and a deal was reached whereby Diageo would accept an offer of half its estimated £8m market value.Sir John Leighton, director-general of the National Galleries of Scotland, thanked the fundraisers. “We are thrilled that we have been able to secure this iconic work for the national collection,” he said. “The enormous support from the public has been incredible with donations coming from all over the world and from the length and breadth of Scotland and the rest of the UK.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Landseer’s 1851 painting of a red deer stag has been used to market products from whisky to shortbread. Photograph: National Galleries Scotland/PAThe biggest contribution came from National Lottery players. The Heritage Lottery Fund pledged £2.65m, followed by £634,00 from private trusts and foundations, £350,000 from the Art Fund and £100,000 provided by the Scottish government from the NGS acquisition fund. A public campaign, with donations from around the world – Anchorage, Los Angeles, Hong Kong – and from across the UK, raised £266,000.The painting, which for the past 17 years had been on loan to the National Museum of Scotland, will take up residence in the Scottish National Gallery before a tour of Scotland.Landseer’s depiction of a majestic stag in a misty Highlands landscape is a showstopper – but it is not to all tastes. Is it something of a biscuit tin cliche of Scotland? Is an elitist celebration of hunting in the Highlands, ignoring the displacement of working families in the 19th century, politically unpalatable?The National Galleries will be happy for a debate to take place. It says the Monarch of the Glen has had an “iconic status” since it was painted in the mid-19th century and had become known through numerous reproductions and in marketing for products from whisky to shortbread. “This has resulted in the image being transformed into one of global recognition, which for many encapsulates the romance of Scotland’s natural wonders,” the galleries said. “The picture has also been interpreted in different ways, being employed to support changing and sometimes conflicting interpretations of Scottish culture and history.”Painted in 1851, the Monarch of the Glen was one of three works commissioned for the House of Lords refreshment rooms, but the Commons refused to stump up the money so it was sold privately. It ended up in Diageo’s possession after a merger: it was formerly owned and used as a trademark for Dewar’s and then Glenfiddich whiskies.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sir Edwin Henry Landseer, 1802-73. Photograph: Corbis/GettyDiageo sold it because it had no link to its current business or brands.Dame Seona Reid, chair of Heritage Lottery Fund’s Scotland committee, said it was a “quintessentially Scottish scene” with a global reach.“The public’s affection for Monarch of the Glen has been reflected in the success of the recent fundraising campaign. Everyone involved should feel proud of the role they are playing in safeguarding and sharing this fine and popular painting.”David Cutter, Diageo’s senior director in Scotland, said: “We are very happy to have partnered with the National Galleries of Scotland and to see the positive outcome of that with the Monarch of the Glen passing into permanent public ownership in Scotland for the first time in its history.”It was also announced that the Heritage Lottery Fund was offering £100,000 and the Scottish government £75,000 to fund the tour round Scotland.