The biggest carmaker is imploding. Its chief executive has gone. The lawyers are gathering, the share price has plunged and today ministers announced their own inquiry into car emissions and testing. The scale of Volkswagen’s deception of the public is huge. They rigged 11m cars which together may have emitted up to an extra 1m tonnes of a toxic gas that kills more than 23,000 people in Britain alone each year.The Volkswagen emissions scandal explained But it would be a grave mistake to focus on Volkswagen in isolation. The reality is that European carmakers deliberately exploit lax emissions tests. It’s good business, but bad ethics. VW’s so-called defeat device in the car’s computer to identify when a diesel vehicle is being tested is just the most hi-tech and surprising way yet uncovered to allow governments to not take air pollution seriously.Here are some of the ways carmakers can do it. Go to a friendly European government test laboratory where everyone is in the know and then they make dozens of small, but together significant adjustments to the car so it drives more efficiently on the test bed. They might tape over the cracks around doors and grills to minimise the car’s air resistance; alter the wheel alignment; fit special tyres and overinflate them; use higher gears to allow the engine to operate more efficiently than normal; disconnect the alternator to reduce energy use; or adjust the brake pads. Stop the car’s battery recharging, perhaps, to save energy; test at unrealistically high temperatures and on super-slick test-tracks; switch off all the energy-guzzling accessories like heated seats, and air-conditioning, navigation and media systems; test cars at altitude.Together, these tricks of the auto trade should increase a car’s fuel economy and lower its carbon dioxide (CO2), soot or toxic nitrogen dioxide (NO2) gas pollution levels by about 10-20%. They might use special lubricants and minimise the weight of the car. It’s quite legal and no European government will stop them. But have no doubt, it’s cheating and it directly affects the air we breathe. We are fools if we rely on the statistics and assurances which count for nothing. When independent testers, research groups such as Brussels-based Transport and Environment, and motoring websites ask drivers to monitor their own fuel use and mileage, they find disparities in fuel economy of up to 30% and NO2 emissions three to five times higher than official test results. Even the newest, toughest Euro 6 standard diesel cars which have been hyped as “ultra clean” by the industry, have been found to be much less efficient on the road than official figures suggest.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Volkswagen diesel emissions: what the carmaker did, and whyThe technical problem is that carmakers are being told to reconcile several different environmental ambitions. To sell a car, they want to increase fuel economy, but they must also reduce its CO2 emissions to avoid global warming, and clean up the NO2 exhaust gases which poison people. It is chemically nearly impossible to do it all. Improve one and you will probably make another worse.But European governments have prioritised a reduction in climate emissions and incentivised the diesel industry with lower tax thresholds and fuel prices for cars that emit significantly less CO2. The result is that millions of people have bought diesels believing the industry and government hype that they are better for the planet than petrol cars. But the cruellest thing the industry did was to lobby the European commission and national governments to weaken and delay the adoption of tighter emission tests. More stringent diesel rules, called Euro 6, were proposed eight years ago and are meant to ensure that all European cars are tested in road rather than laboratory conditions. But carmakers, backed by governments, have made sure these new tests will not come into force until 2017 at the earliest.Every month they delay its introduction, carmakers add to the 400,000 premature deaths, and countless respiratory, cardiac and other illnesses that result from air pollution in Europe. The risks are known, and manufacturers carry on oblivious to the damage being done, determined to carry on cheating the public. If they have their way, the new European tests will not be random, will only be conducted in urban areas – despite the high levels of pollution produced by cars on motorways – and all test cars will be driven on known routes with trained drivers to minimise pollution.VW scandal: what the emissions revelations mean What is more important is that it fits a pattern. Governments have turned a blind eye to the cheating that blights effective air pollution legislation. Until Britain was dragged to the European court of justice and then the supreme court last year by a small group of environmental lawyers, it had no plan to meet legal limits of toxic NO2 gas in London until 2030 – nearly 25 years after it was first ordered to act by Europe.Now the UK government says it plans to meet limits in London by 2025 and other cities by 2020. The VW scandal appals, but the big picture shows that European carmakers and governments have colluded over a generation to deceive and harm their populations. Not only have they failed to reduce climate emissions, they have also guaranteed that a generation will breathe heavily polluted air. High levels of nitrogen oxides in cities will persist for decades; and because diesel cars have a life of about 16 years, when those cars get older they are likely to be exported to African and Asian cities. Then they will pollute the Earth’s poorest people.VW, like BP in the Gulf, Shell in Nigeria and many other environmental vandals, will try to limit this week’s damage and return to business as usual. Governments, too, will duck because they are complicit. But there are plenty of things they can do – such as ban all diesel vehicles from city centres and introduce Euro 6 standards immediately. Carmakers could make amends only by focusing on electric or hydrogen vehicles which emit little more harmful than water and might thus prevent millions of illnesses. Informed about the scale of their cheating, we must force them to act.