Some tenured academic blockhead in America has written a book proving that poetry is over. One glance at his prose is enough to prove that, for him, poetry never started. But poetry can only gain from not being treated as a matter of vital cultural importance. It’s much more important than that. It happens that I regard my own forthcoming poetry book, to be published in May under the title of Injury Time, as being nifty in all respects, but I wouldn’t want to stake my life on the critics agreeing with me. One of them might be that dork in America.I’ve only just now got back from a clinic where the chief medico iced the back of my skull preparatory to cutting out a seborrhoeic keratosis, a name that reminds me of a central European ice-hockey player with a collection of Thelonious Monk records. From such musings, I derived the only entertainment I needed during the whole 20 minutes, a period of time experienced in the benumbed interior of my head as a California redwood being chopped down nearby with a blunt axe. But if the ghost of TS Eliot had arrived to recite The Waste Land, I would have been no better off. There is a time and place for intense art, but you have to be ready.Last night, I was ready for Helen Hunt’s wonderful performance in As Good As It Gets, running yet again on one of those channels watched only by the doomed. Jack Nicholson plays an irascible old man dying of irritation, but one of those was already watching him. After so many years of counting his bared teeth, I long for the days when he could deliver the “Hold the chicken” speech in Five Easy Pieces without flashing his ivory like a leopard set to charge.But Helen Hunt! Holy smoke, what an artist! Near the end of the movie, she delivers a speech about cracking up that makes you realise she has been cracking up since the opening scene: even her beautiful serenity was a gathering storm. I interviewed her on TV once and came damned near letting awe overwhelm me, which you mustn’t do on air or it looks as if you have been injected with cement.Clive James: ‘Coogan and Brydon are the funniest couple since Laurel and Hardy’ So the junk channels can have their uses. Some of them own only two movies: in one of them, Steven Seagal cleans his gun with a toothbrush and in the other he cleans his toothbrush with a gun. But keep checking up, because occasionally there will be a glitch in the accountancy, and Hunt will be up there on the screen, apparently doing not much more than speak. And, for the benefit of that busy dolt in America, that’s what poetry is: speech made incandescent.