Day of the Dead is the Mexican tradition celebrating the lives of friends and family who have died. Candles are lit and the souls of the departed are welcomed with cakes, sugar skulls, and breads decorated with edible “bones”. Processions and gatherings bring lightness even to the darkness of death. The Mexican poet Octavio Paz said it best: “The word ‘death’ is not pronounced in New York, in Paris, in London, because it burns the lips. The Mexican, in contrast, is familiar with death, jokes about it, caresses it, sleeps with it, celebrates it, it is one of his favourite toys and his most steadfast love.” Rather than be afraid of death, the tradition embraces it.This sentiment has resonated with me since I spent a Day of the Dead in Mexico many years ago. Beautifully intricate candy skulls, cast from sugar and decorated with colourful icing and sprinkles, adorned homemade altars that were visible through doorways and windows in nearly every home. Foods and trinkets were laid on altars, too. For Day of the Dead – 2 November – I always make meringue bones. They are fast, simple and fun to have on hand for Halloween parties, too.Bonfire Night, which in the UK follows a few days later on November 5th, celebrates the failure of Guy Fawkes’ plot to blow up the Houses of Parliament. Fireworks, huge bonfires, and effigies of Fawkes himself are lit all over the UK. This year, instead of lighting bonfires, you could just gather with friends and nibble on bonfire toffee. When made just right (not burnt), this bitter toffee has sweet characteristics enhanced by a touch of flaky salt.Both of this week’s recipes call for a sugar thermometer, which are available cheaply in large cook shops, supermarkets and online. This will make caramels, meringues, Swiss buttercreams, toffees and boiled sweets much easier – no longer will you have to drop boiling sugar into water to test its temperature (a faff that takes some know-how), so it’s a small investment that I recommend making.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘For Day of the Dead – 2 November – I always make meringue bones. They are fast, simple and fun to have on hand for Halloween parties, too.’ Photograph: Kristin Perers for the GuardianMeringue bonesMakes about 152 egg whites150g caster sugar1 Preheat the oven to 110C/225F/gas mark ¼. Line two baking trays with parchment paper.2 Combine the egg whites and sugar in a heatproof bowl. Put the mixture over a pan of barely simmering water (do not let the bottom of the bowl touch the water). Whisk until the whites are reading 50C/122F on a thermometer and it feels smooth rubbed between two fingers.3 Transfer the whites to a stand mixer and whisk until they have become glossy and stiff.4 Using a piping bag with a round tip, or a plastic zip freezer bag with a 1cm piece of the corner cut off, pipe bone shapes on to your lined baking trays.5 Bake for one hour, or until the meringue bones are starting to crack. They should be “bone” white, not browned. Cool completely before removing from the tray. Store in an airtight container for up to two weeks.Bonfire toffee (main picture)Serves 6-8125g unsalted butter200g black treacle200g caster sugar½ tsp flaky sea saltClaire Ptak’s recipe for peanut and coconut tres leches sheet cake | Baking the seasons 1 Line a baking sheet with parchment. In a heavy-based saucepan, combine the butter, treacle and sugar. Melt over a medium heat, stirring occasionally until dissolved. Raise the heat to high and bring to a boil. Boil the syrup until it reads 140C/284F on a sugar thermometer.2 Pour immediately on to the paper-lined tray and sprinkle with the flaky sea salt. Let it cool and harden before shattering with the back of a spoon. Store in a paper-lined airtight container – separate the layers of toffee with sheets of baking paper. Keeps for about a week.Claire Ptak is a pastry chef, author and food stylist and owns Violet Bakery in London. She is the author of the Violet Bakery Cookbook (Square Peg); @violetcakeslondon