Julia Peyton-Jones is hardly the first woman to walk away from an all-consuming job in order to start a family. But she is perhaps unique in doing so aged 64. This week, it emerged that the former director of London’s Serpentine gallery has become a mother for the first time – whether via surrogacy, adoption or some IVF wizardry, she’s not saying – to baby Pia. When she quit last year, hinting it was time to pass things down to a new generation, it seems she meant it literally.Older mothers are so common now that prurience is thankfully fading. The sleepless nights may be harder for middle-aged parents to take, but research shows they bring time, money, and emotional maturity to the party. When Janet Jackson gave birth at 50, the overwhelming reaction was a rather cheering “so what?” – plus a few pointed reminders that Mick Jagger is still doggedly fathering offspring at 73.Scientific advances have transformed the art of the possible, of course. But so have increased life expectancy, changing relationship patterns – divorce and remarriage often bring the desire to squeeze a second family under the wire – and shifting expectations of what older women can do or be. Middle-aged women don’t feel or behave like their mothers did at the same age, a phenomenon the BBC is tapping into with its saucy new Sunday night drama, Apple Tree Yard, about a 52-year-old woman starting an affair. Actor Emily Watson, who plays her, was surprised by the script because “as the years go by you get laid less and less on screen until you sort of stop … but suddenly, here I am”.All that said, however, new parenthood for pensioners feels like a biological leap of a rather different order. It would be ridiculous, when a 60-year-old is running the country, to suggest her contemporaries can’t cope with running after toddlers. But children need you for rather longer than voters do. Peyton-Jones said jauntily in 2011 that she planned to live to 100, and only now is it clear how much that must matter to her.Dame Julia Peyton-Jones becomes a mother for first time aged 64 If she’s lucky, she will enjoy more years with her daughter than millions of younger, poorer mothers throughout history could expect. But the greatest fear most parents have, after something happening to their children, is something happening to them before their children are old enough to cope. For sexagenarian parents the risk of setting a child up for early bereavement, or life as a young carer, is real.Noble concern for the child’s welfare, however, doesn’t quite explain the knee-jerk disgust older mothers arouse in some. Could the “ick factor” have something to do with the fact that Peyton-Jones hasn’t merely triumphed over nature, but barged right through the conventional limitations of gender, too? For this is surely the ultimate in having it all, dividing work and family into two self-contained phases of life in a way that until now only men could envisage. First comes an enviable career, with all the competitive advantages of being able to devote oneself solely to it from dawn until midnight. Then, when you’ve drained every last drop of juice from work, comes parenthood.What luxury, to pack in both career and family without ever feeling that you’re letting one down to serve the other! So much cleaner than the guilt-edged chaos in which younger parents of both sexes live – at least, judging by the survey published this week showing men too now think their work-life balance is out of whack.For the trouble with doing it conventionally is that one life constantly rubs up against the other. Worrying about what’s going on in the office corrodes evenings and weekends with the kids. Harder to talk about, but just as intense, is the slow-burning grief those of us who love our jobs feel at losing the ability to work and work until it’s done, in blissfully selfish absorption. No wonder creative types fear the pram in the hall.Half of fathers want less stressful job to help more with child-rearing But what if you could spend a lifetime doing whatever you wanted, and get around to the pram in what would once have been your dotage? After all, as Peyton-Jones once said of the arts world, “If you don’t like the system, you make your own system.” Think how women’s lives would change if the clock stopped ticking. No more clinging to a dubious relationship because you’re not getting any younger; no more poker games, agonising over when it might be safe to disclose that you want kids. Imagine what extraordinary things women could do with the freedom to walk away, as men can, confident of having decades to get around to all that. No wonder some find the idea of older motherhood so scary. It’s one huge leap closer to an equal playing field.Well, relax, chaps. This is not a glimpse of some brave new future, if only because one suspects this may not have been quite the way Peyton-Jones planned it. (Asked six years ago what had been her greatest disappointment in life, she cited the collapse of her first marriage in her 30s, which doesn’t sound like a woman hellbent on parking her private life until retirement.)Late motherhood is too often portrayed as self-indulgent, a fallback option for women having such a good time they forgot to have kids, but the truth is many older mothers would have given anything to do it earlier if things had been different. If only they’d met the right person at the right time, or hadn’t wasted years on someone incapable of commitment, or hadn’t been trying to rise through workplaces so unforgiving that they didn’t dare risk a career break … Men who recoil from delayed motherhood might more usefully reflect on what, or who, pushes so many women into it.The rest of us should wish all the luck in the world to Peyton-Jones and her daughter. Perhaps especially if we worry, deep down, that they may come to need it.