When Shai Aharony went on holiday in 2015 he found that, rather spending his time writing smug postcards to friends back home, he was distracted by another form of communication: email. That’s 212 of them, to be precise.Thanks to hundreds of queries from colleagues and clients, his 10-day break wasn’t as relaxing as he’d hoped. “It dawned on me that I was spending much more time reading and responding to emails than actually enjoying time with my family or the book I’d brought with me,” recalls Aharony, managing director of Reboot Online, a marketing agency based in London.When Aharony returned home he carried out a work email audit and discovered that many of his employees were also spending their holidays and weekends tackling their inboxes, often unnecessarily. He decided to take radical action: a temporary ban on after-hours emails was introduced and, later, a company-wide policy on when – and when not – to respond to late messages.Reboot Online isn’t the only company trying to stop the digital world from encroaching on employees’ home lives. German companies such as Volkswagen and BMW have limits on out of hours emails, while car manufacturer Daimler allows employees to have all work emails received while they are on holiday automatically deleted. French IT company Atos also banned internal email for its 80,000 employees. And, recently, French legislators even proposed a reform to the country’s labour law that would guarantee employees a “right to disconnect”.The reform has provoked a debate about how modern technology is affecting our working lives, and whether the state should step in to protect citizens’ work-life balance. “If the law were passed, employers would have to adopt measures to make the employee’s right to disconnect as effective as possible,” explains Ludovic Roche, employment partner at Squire Patton Boggs in Paris. This rule would apply to all companies that hire at least 50 people.There are plenty of reasons why encouraging people to send fewer after-work emails is a good idea. A recent report by the Chartered Management Institute found that an “always-on culture” driven by technological changes is having a damaging effect on managers. “Excessive use of email can lead to increased burnout, conflicts with one’s family, reduced satisfaction with work and reduced wellbeing,” says Ofir Turel, professor of information systems and decision sciences at the College of Business and Economics, California State University.Part of the problem is that – regardless of how much a person likes having flexibility – constant work emails can take an emotional toll. Put simply, it requires a person to quickly and frequently switch between roles, explains Jon Whittle, professor of computer science at Lancaster University. One minute you’re having dinner with your family, the next you’re an employee responding to a rude email that’s just popped up from a client. This can cause feelings of guilt (people worry they’re neglecting either work or their family) and lead to what researchers call “emotional hangovers”.“If [a person] is at home and suddenly a difficult email comes in and they deal with that there and then, it’s very difficult to switch back from dealing with that angry email to then playing with their children,” says Whittle.Not only is answering difficult emails from home potentially bad for an individual’s wellbeing, it also might not be an efficient way of working. “Is responding to emails after midnight effective?” asks Turil. “Will people make more mistakes when responding to an email rashly when at home?”These questions aren’t easy to answer: emails are a relatively new concept and, because people’s attitudes to flexible working vary, a one-size-fits-all approach doesn’t work. Some people prefer to have a clear separation between work and home, others like the fact that they can answer work emails on their iPad while cooking dinner for their kids. “The individual needs to have control over the when, and the how of work in order to fit that aspect with the rest of their life,” says Stewart Friedman, professor at the University of Pennsylvania and founding director of the Wharton Work-Life Integration project.Friedman argues that individuals need to get better at negotiating their terms of availability with their company or clients. But others say it’s company bosses who should be doing more to protect their workers from email overload. “Often when people talk about this, the emphasis is on personal responsibility,” says Whittle.Work less, do more: seven ways to improve your work-life balance “There are a lot of self-help books out there that will help you to be more productive, or structure your time so that you only check your email once a day, for example, but that’s very much putting the onus on the individual and ignoring the fact that the individual is part of a broader organisational, corporate or societal structure.”Employees need to have a sense of personal responsibility, adds Whittle, but they’re unlikely to succeed in improving their working habits if they are not supported by their boss. And there’s a danger, he says, that emails can become a scapegoat for deeper, underlying problems with our working culture. The real issue “is the fact that everyone is being asked to do more and more with less resources”.Turel recommends that companies provide training to new staff outlining what the expectation is for after-work communication, and describing the dangers of overuse. He points to an “excessive CC culture” where employees are bombarded with irrelevant information – both a time-consuming and distracting annoyance. Too many work-related messages – whether they’re sent by email or another means – are simply irrelevant.At Reboot Online all employees now follow a company-wide policy where any employee receiving an email does not have an obligation to respond unless they deem it important enough. “Just having that policy in place, even though it does not outright ban email communication between employees or clients, reduced the after-hours email usage by almost 90%,” Aharony says.Next time he switches on his out of office, he can expect far fewer interruptions. “Now all I have to do is figure out a way that I can switch off and all will be well,” he says.Looking for a job? Browse Guardian Jobs or sign up to Guardian Careers for the latest job vacancies and career advice