Last Friday morning, Kirstie Allsopp thought she saw someone throwing litter from a car. Most of us would feel momentarily irritated, but Allsopp was downright furious and decided to tweet the offending numberplate. Her accompanying message exhorted her 369,000 followers “don’t be scared to say Tosser”.You might think that this self-righteousness need not detain us for longer than 140 characters and a furtive glance to see if we recognise the car that caused Allsopp to see red. But it strikes me that behind Allsopp’s apparently commonsense approach to people who litter the streets lies the toxic conviction that her values are the right ones, the ones by which the rest of us should live.Litter is, of course, unpleasant to be around. Seeing a Coke can bobbing on a pond or a fag packet trampled into the verge, or even a bit of chewing gum stuck to a bus seat, lowers your mood and makes you feel grubby. But it is not, in and of itself, evil or disgusting. To adapt the anthropologist Mary Douglas’s classic formulation of dirt, litter is merely matter out of place. Restore it to its rightful surroundings – the wastepaper basket, the street bin, the recycling box – and order is resumed.But who decides what that proper place is? Kirstie Allsopp, apparently, and anyone else who feels that their values are so obviously the right ones that it gives them the moral authority to take the law into their own hands when they come across someone who thinks differently.It is perhaps no coincidence that Allsopp came to fame on a television programme helping nice, sensible people buy their dream house. Encoded in all those early Victorian terraces and mid-century modern detached houses is a vestige of the 18th-century belief that, in order to have the right to political representation, you must first own property. Only then do you have a stake in how the country is run.Allsopp’s action, then, has the kind of cheesy appeal of a politician who talks about “commonsense values”, as if there were a set of central tenets so obvious they barely need articulating. Anyone who throws litter is being “disrespectful” – to the neighbours, the environment, to Kirstie herself.Nothing is particularly wrong with that, of course. Most of us would prefer not to wade through rubbish in the park. But the problem is mission-creep. Before we know it we’ll find ourselves being told that it is also “common sense” to exclude anyone from the park who is found throwing litter, or who looks like they might throw litter, or who doesn’t dress in Boden and live in a four-bed newbuild in a nice quiet cul de sac.You see this process at work everywhere, that stealthy means by which a set of highly specific middle-class values is made to look as though it is normal or “natural good sense, and that anyone who doesn’t agree is derelict or deviant and needs to be penalised. Obese people and smokers being made to pay for their medical treatment, for instance, or turning away drunks from A&E. These may be understandable acts of self-interest, but they are not universal goods.It is lovely to know that you are right about an issue and that, what’s more, lots of people agree with you. It gives you a warm feeling inside and allows you to strut around deciding who is bad and who deserves punishment (people who don’t think the same as you, basically).You don’t have to bother about the fact that you haven’t actually seen CCTV footage showing “the crime scene” from different angles. You don’t have to worry about the fact you haven’t seen any social or psychiatric reports on the “perpetrator” that might explain why they had behaved in a way that offended you. Instead, like the ironically named Queen of Hearts in Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland, you simply point at people you don’t much like the look of and scream “Off with his head!”Vigilantism is rightly deplored as mob violence that has been given a free pass to enforce its own dominant codes. But taking the law into your own hands when it comes to litter louts is really no different. I have no idea if it’s a crime to tweet someone’s numberplate and encourage derision, but I rather hope it is. Because it would be ironic to think of Allsopp experiencing a visit from the boys in blue, or at very least her local community support officer, with a stern little chat about the legality – let alone the morality – of what she has just done.