Out in Australia, which can be safely regarded as the premier laboratory for developments in the English language, there has been a newspaper report about a class in communications. The class took place on a bus, and the journalist who conducted it was quoted as saying the following: “Our friend Danielle narrated the experience of losing her virginity to us all on the bus.” Did she really say it that way, or did a subeditor help?Either way, I fear that when the current generation of journalists in Australia have got through with teaching the next generation how to communicate, any journalists left over who still know how to say what they mean will be labelled rightwing. Among my own regular trolls, it is the Australians who are most likely, whenever I stress the indispensability of punctuation and grammar, to call me a mouthpiece of the war-criminal Tory establishment.But my fear is no doubt an old man’s failing. Especially in the matter of how women are treated, Australia is the reverse of a stupid country. Every media outlet employs a fair share of women in prominent positions. In that regard, Saudi Arabia is a stupid country, Pakistan is a stupid country plus nukes, and North Korea is so stupid that one trembles at the sight of its leader’s hairstyle. A television face-off between Supreme Leader Kim Jong-un and President Donald Trump is going to be something to keep us entertained in the few minutes before the world comes to an end. I apologise for the hairism of the preceding remark.Australia is stupid only to the extent that its journalists deploy increasingly elaborate language for any subject that doesn’t matter, but no language for anything vital. The Aussies are still trying to marshal the communications skills to cope with the continuing story about the teenage Melbourne jihadist who is accused of planning to load a live kangaroo with explosives and release it towards the crowds last Anzac Day. Many journalists have raised the pointless question of what motivated the adolescent nitwit, but few have asked how he could have emerged from the Australian school system believing that a kangaroo could be induced to bounce in the right direction.Clive James: ‘Leslie Nielsen made a gun of his fingers and shot me. I shot back’ The continuing story? The lethal young ignoramus is almost a year older, and might be planning to send a koala to blow up the Australian prime minister before his own party can depose him. You might say that the kid is safely in custody, but in that case let me offer you a deal on a series of communications lessons that I plan to convene on a London bus. Come and meet Danielle.