Charlotte JosephineI’d not read the play before and couldn’t believe how long ago it was written. It felt very fresh. I mean: if you go online today, you can shop for someone to fuck. You can search through and pick someone to have sex with. It can be that cold, exactly the kind of emotionless transaction that one of the characters, Mark, is exploring in the play.  Charlotte Josephine: ‘Capitalism fuels that sense of shame that we’re not already enough’It made me think a lot about the difference between want and need. We’re living in a selfish age and we’re all falling victim to the belief that “I’ll be happy when ...”. I’ll be happy when I get those trainers and that boyfriend and that amount of money in my bank account and that postcode and that number of likes on Facebook. We’re chasing the want but not fully knowing what we need. And that can so easily get ugly because of all the things you might do in the pursuit of happiness.I was reminded of something someone once said to me: capitalism needs shame in the same way that politics needs fear. It made me think about the primal, human need to be part of the tribe. Shame is the fear that you’re not worthy of love and connection. Capitalism is preying on that idea – buy this and you’ll feel good, wear this and you’ll feel good. It fuels that sense of shame that we’re not already enough. It’s so dangerous on a worldwide level.I like theatre that makes me feel like I’m part of the conversation – so I loved the way that Sean Holmes makes us become complicit in the show. But I didn’t feel any sense of hope coming away from it. I didn’t feel changed by the experience of having seen it, if I’m honest. But it did make me want to work harder at kindness, empathy and love – especially amid all the madness caused by the Tories and Trump.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Andrew Clover as Robbie and Kate Ashfield as Lulu in Shopping and Fucking when it premiered at the Royal Court in 1996. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianBrad BirchYou have to embrace a title like Shopping and Fucking. It’s a three-word poem. You could write essays on that title alone. It does what titles don’t always do, in that it really is part of the piece of art – literally so in the production, as it’s a slogan on T-shirts worn by the actors and it appears on the TV screens on the stage.  Brad Birch: ‘You have to embrace a title like that. It’s a three-word poem’I first heard of Mark Ravenhill through his Guardian columns. I knew him more as a cultural figure before I read his plays. Watching the Lyric’s revival, I had similar feelings to going to see their production of Edward Bond’s Saved, another controversial play that comes with its own myths attached. The production really takes you back to the 90s with music like the Shamen’s Ebeneezer Goode. It felt like it played nostalgically to that but its themes are still really modern. If it was 1996 and you went to see a play from 1976, I think the gap would feel much bigger than the gap between now and 1996. That’s because they were the nascent days of the era we’re in, when consuming is so closely linked to our identity. The set captures the empty, warehouse feel of a shopping channel studio. That made sense because if these characters were living in London now, the chances are they’d be living in a converted warehouse. I found myself thinking of the time between Shopping and Fucking and now: the wild west nature of new technologies and the internet. There was the dotcom boom, all those start-ups, and then the way corporatism swallowed up the counterculture, as charted in Thomas Frank’s The Conquest of Cool. Mark Zuckerberg is a child of that generation, where cool and counterculture and rave culture were all appropriated by business. In one scene, two of the characters are operating sex chatlines – the message is really about the commoditisation of the self. That’s quite normal now. The characters sell their bodies; we all sell our personalities. This all feels embryonically there in the world of Shopping and Fucking.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sophie Wu as Lulu and Ashley McGuire as Brian in the Lyric’s revival. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianSam SteinerI had no knowledge of the play beforehand apart from the vague notion that it had shocked a load of people in the 90s. For that reason, I think I almost wanted to dislike it. I don’t think “shock” on its own works as well in theatre as it used to. The internet has made us so used to being bombarded with “shocking” images, so desensitised to it all that we don’t gain as much from seeing it on stage as perhaps we used to. The brilliant thing about the Lyric’s production is that it knows this.   Sam Steiner: ‘The production becomes about how we fell for the myth of late capitalism’Under Sean Holmes’s direction, it becomes a hyper-period piece. A huge, giddy pastiche of the 90s. There are bumbags and DayGlo suits and bad green-screen backdrops and impassioned karaoke renditions of Stay Another Day. The actors (fixed with wide, Shopping Channel grins) make asides to the audience that feel less like soliloquies and more like The Price Is Right. At the start of the show two “luxury” onstage seats are auctioned off. When the two winners are chosen we cheer and applaud them as if they were genuinely about to spin a wheel for a chance to win a holiday in the Maldives. This willing silliness and cheese underpins many of the play’s most ostensibly shocking moments. When Lulu is forced to strip off as she performs an audition monologue, the projected backdrop behind her morphs into tacky clip-art-esque landscapes of the location she’s describing. A funny camera angle on Gary’s face during an explicit sex act makes an act of underage prostitution seem farcical. Shopping and Fucking review – Mark Ravenhill's fearless play clicks into Amazon age This feels like the point. The production becomes about how we fell for the myth of late capitalism and how we continue to do so. It’s about how a culture that treats people like things and connections between them like transactions is made to seem silly, fun, exciting and harmless. This becomes most telling at the end when, after a horrible piece of violence, another audience member is invited on to the stage to read the play’s final monologue. When she’s done we’re cheering and whooping her again. Everyone is slow-dancing to I Want You Back for Good. The crowd are swaying. A choir is singing. This is how it happens. We gloss over all of these personal tragedies because we’re distracted by a consumerist pantomime that feels exciting and feels fun and feels like love. The more I think about it, the more the play becomes an attempt to fit moments of tenderness and genuine connection into a world that doesn’t quite support it. Like trying to run a PC program on a Mac. And yes, that feels prophetic on Ravenhill’s part. But to say he was prescient or ahead of his time doesn’t feel useful. I’m reminded of what Chuck Palahniuk said of Fight Club’s success, that he was “just rewriting The Great Gatsby, updated a little”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Moorst as Gary and Sam Spruell as Mark in Shopping and Fucking at the Lyric. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianTheresa IkokoThere were bright lights, neon colours, lots of screens and the audience were hyped: whoops, singalongs, hands in the air. It was fun, but I’m easily distracted so with all that going on I struggled to connect with the characters a little and sometimes found it hard to pick out the thread of the story. But what was clear was the potential relevance, to today’s twentysomethings, of the cultural references and commentary: we do everything so hard, so fast, and we want things quickly and easily.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Theresa Ikoko: ‘Suddenly I was hit by all this empathy and compassion’I saw it alongside a group from a theatre school and they were having the absolute time of their lives. But the cheers and laughter and how easy it was for the people around me to, literally, get up and dance after we just saw Mark lick blood out of Gary’s anus, made me a little uncomfortable. I’m not sure if it was the shock of that moment, the East 17 song the people behind me were screaming along to, or the fact that the latter so quickly and easily followed the former but I felt a bit – there’s definitely a better word for it – but I’ll say empty.I’ve thought about this. I thought about the idea that we are supposed to be a desensitised, insensitive generation. Maybe we are a little. Or maybe the lights and music on the stage amplified the shock and turned down my ability to connect. There were a lot of those moments for me, moments of simultaneous shock and disconnect – a sort of self-preservation perhaps. On reflection, maybe that’s the idea: a comment on how easily we disconnect, how easily we get high and dance away trauma, how we reduce everything down so simply until we don’t feel anything deeper than basic human instinct.But, right at the end, there’s a moment: Robbie has a look on his face. I’m not sure if it was the actor or the character I connected with, but suddenly I got hit by all of this empathy and compassion, feelings I hadn’t had the whole way through. I felt sad, and a little hopeful. Maybe because it turns out that I’m more sensitive than I thought, and maybe I cared about Robbie all along and maybe that means we all care a little more than we think we do.(Oh and: Mark, Robbie, Gary, Lulu … Relight My Fire … Take That! Didn’t clock that the characters were named after them at all! Ha. Good song.) Shopping and Fucking is at the Lyric, Hammersmith, until 5 November. Box office: 020-8741 6850.