In the last few hours of sunlight on summer evenings, the collection of pots on the garden steps feels like the most precious part of my smallholding in Devon, Otter Farm. It’s where most of the picking goes on for that richly deserved post-work cocktail. To make you sidestep a gin and tonic or a cold beer, a cocktail has to be special, and it is this small collection of herbs that makes all the difference.A cocktail, like a salad dressing, needs a balance of fruitiness, aromatics, sweetness, sharpness, sourness (sometimes) and (often) something to lengthen and dilute the intensity. A few well-chosen herbs can add all these, and you don’t need much space in which to grow them. A windowsill, short stretch of balcony or a few steps like mine will provide room enough for half a dozen. You can even squeeze a few herbs into a single large pot, the bigger, the better (though grow mint on its own as it likes to expand rapidly). Most of the perennial herbs I use for cocktails prefer good drainage – potting compost blended with grit is ideal. Water often, give them a liquid feed once a month and place in the sunniest spot you have. With care, they’ll last for years.Capturing a herb’s qualities for your cocktail can be as simple as adding a few leaves, perhaps part-crushing them (as in the mojito here), or creating an infusion to add to the mix. Lavender gin, sweet cicely vodka and lemon verbena rum are as simple to make as sloe gin, but the quickest route to herby cocktail happiness is making a syrup, which will add aroma, flavour and sweetness to the whole.Dissolve 200g sugar in 200ml water in a pan over a moderate heat, stirring occasionally. Remove from the heat as the syrup reaches a simmer; add a small handful of herb leaves and allow to infuse as the syrup cools. When it becomes tepid, lift the leaves out with a slotted spoon. The result should be bright and aromatic. Increase the number of leaves and/or the length of infusion if you prefer a stronger flavour.This simple process works equally well with most perennial herbs. Mints of all varieties, scented geraniums, lemon verbena, rosemary and thyme (including orange and lemon thymes) are my favourites.The essential six 1 Lemon verbena This should be the first herb on any list. Rub its long, thin leaves and your fingers will be infected with sherbetty lemoniness. Lining a cake tin with its leaves before pouring in the batter and baking will give your cake a powerful zesty punch.2 Moroccan mint A great all-rounder, this is the finest for tea and the best for mojitos, too. Lively, bright and fresh.3 Scented geraniums These come in many varieties – pine, lemon, lime and hazelnut among them – but if you have room for only one, make it rose. It’s fabulous for adding the scent and flavour of turkish delight to jellies, and simmering with fruit for ice lollies and ice-creams.4 Chocolate mint A lively peppermint, carrying more menthol than Moroccan mint, and to my taste the best of the “flavoured” mints. (Avoid banana at all costs: it is like the worst banoffee pie you’ve ever eaten.) Like After Eights in leaf form, this is a great one to use for syrups and poaching peaches. It makes a great tea, too.5 Orange thyme If I had room for only one thyme, this is the one I’d grow. Lemon is magnificent, and broadleaved thyme my favourite for the kitchen, but both are increasingly available in the shops, whereas this variety isn’t. Try adding it when slow-roasting rhubarb with honey or sugar.6 Blackcurrant sage This just pips rosemary for my sixth essential herb, by virtue of its being difficult to acquire unless you grow it yourself.As you would hope, it marries fruitiness with that classic sage flavour and aroma; try infusing a few leaves in a jar of olive oil for a delicious, fruity oil that’s especially good on pizza.If you’ve room for more, try lavender, anise hyssop, fennel, sweet cicely or – a favourite of mine – ginger rosemary, which has the latter’s flavour and aroma, but not its sickliness. Mix equal parts ginger rosemary syrup, gin and lemon juice, lengthened with stone-cold soda water, for an incredible Joan Collins (my version of the classic Tom Collins).Don’t forget, if you have fruit to hand (grown or foraged), or even vegetables, there is usually a cocktail to suit. (Bloody mary, anyone?) And if you get the cocktail bug, allow me to recommend Lottie Muir’s Wild Cocktails From The Midnight Apothecary and John Wright’s River Cottage Booze Handbook, both of which broaden the cocktail larder to include foraged ingredients, cover making infusions, syrups and more, and contain some fine recipes.Meanwhile, here’s one that hits the spot.Charlie’s mojitoA mojito is just about the perfect answer to the question, “What shall I drink on this sunny day?” The classic Cuban mojito has mint, sugar, lime, white rum and soda water, whereas this (taken from my book A Year At Otter Farm) is really a gin and tonic mojito, with the verbena syrup adding sweetness and lemon. All the ingredients must be very cold.Juice and skin of 1 lime26 mint leaves40ml lemon verbena syrup50ml ginCrushed iceTonic waterPut lime juice and skin in a bowl with the mint, and pound the leaves with the end of a rolling pin (known as muddling) to extract their scent and flavour. Lift out the skins and squeeze to capture all the juice. Add the lemon verbena syrup and gin, stir and pour into a glass. Add ice and top with tonic to taste.