There was an evening last summer when Hyde Park belonged to Taylor Swift: 65,000 people, most of them female, cheering and singing along as Swift hovered over the crowd on a mechanical arm. It felt an extraordinary moment, a female singer-songwriter at the peak of her success, gazing across a sea of fans, as if standing like the figurehead on her own ship.Carole King to perform Tapestry in its entirety for the first time – in London This summer in the same park, Carole King will perform her 1971 album Tapestry in full, and even if she doesn’t hand out blinking bracelets or summon a raft of famous supermodel friends to the stage, it’s hard not to hope that her performance might summon a similar level of rapture. After all, King was very much the precursor to Swift – a remarkable songwriter who captured, with pop tunes and profound tenderness, the experiences of love and life and womanhood.King’s dominance over the music world had begun long before 1971. As a child growing up in Brooklyn she learned piano from the age of four, later recording demos with her friend Paul Simon, and releasing her first promo single in 1958. Then, at the age of 17 and newly pregnant, she married Gerry Goffin. The pair dropped out of college, taking small-fry day jobs that allowed them to spend their evenings writing songs in an office at 1650 Broadway, bang opposite the Brill Building. Among their early compositions was the Shirelles’ Will You Love Me Tomorrow, which became the first No 1 single by an all-black girl group. They duly gave up the day jobs.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The hits that followed were something of an embarrassment of riches for King and Goffin, among them The Loco-motion, It Might As Well Rain Until September, Up on the Roof, Take Good Care of My Baby, as well as (You Make Me Feel Like) A Natural Woman, a hit for Aretha Franklin. Between 1955 and 1999, King wrote or co-wrote a grand total of 118 pop hits on the Billboard Top 100, and 61 chart hits for the UK.Divorcing Goffin in 1968, King moved to California, setting up home in Laurel Canyon, where she met James Taylor and Joni Mitchell – both of whom would exert a huge influence on her work. She also began collaborating with Toni Stern, and briefly formed a band named the City – their sole album, Now That Everything’s Been Said, was reissued last year and shows King sounding limber and newly liberated, though her reticence to perform live meant the band called it quits the following year.Tapestry wasn’t her solo debut – that had been Writer, an acoustic record released the previous year, that had sputtered to No 84 on the Billboard chart. It included her own takes on Will You Love Me Tomorrow and (You Make Me Feel Like) A Natural Woman, and two co-writes with Toni Stern – It’s Too Late and Where You Lead, as well as the track You’ve Got a Friend, which would also be recorded by James Taylor on his Mud Slide Slim album – a record that in mood can be seen as a companion piece to Tapestry.In 1971, Tapestry reigned over the US album chart for 15 weeks – and then remained in the chart for the next six years, making it, for 20 years, the most successful album by a female artist. It sold more than 25m copies worldwide and wonfour Grammy awards, including best song for You’ve Got a Friend – the first time a woman had ever won the prize.It’s easy, I think, to be distracted by the facts of King’s career – by the bright and brittle rattle of chart positions, Grammy awards, sales figures. But what made Tapestry such a staggering record, and what makes her such an incredible songwriter, is her warmth.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest King’s songs have a burnished quality, a glow, as if they are fired up from inside her. And to hear her sing them herself is to find a new keenness in her lyrics; a song such as (You Make Me Feel Like) A Natural Woman is of course incredible in the hands of Aretha Franklin, but in King’s voice it finds a raw, heart-deep truth, as if it has found its real home.I don’t always remember album reviews, but Robert Christgau’s response to Tapestry has long stuck in my head; it’s an excellent piece of writing of course, but it lingers because it speaks of a battle that, more than 40 years on, many female musicians are still fighting.“King has done for the female voice what countless singer-composers achieved years ago for the male: liberated it from technical decorum,” he wrote. “She insists on being heard as she is – not raunchy and hot-to-trot or sweet and be-yoo-ti-ful, just human, with all the cracks and imperfections that implies.”As King takes to the stage in Hyde Park this summer, here’s hoping her performance is not just a celebration of her work, but also a fresh burst of liberation for the female voice.