Shakespeare’s alleged romantic liaison with his patron, the third Earl of Southampton, is to be explored in a new play that will debut at the Nuffield theatre.Bafta-winning writer Nick Dear, whose recent adaptation of Frankenstein was directed by Danny Boyle at the National Theatre, will use his new work to delve into the mysterious relationship that existed between the playwright and his famously effeminate and beautiful aristocratic patron, Henry Wriothesly.Little is known about the pair’s friendship, but it has been speculated that they had an affair during 1592 and 1593, when Shakespeare left a plague-ravaged London and began writing longform poetry and sonnets. Shakespeare dedicated his first narrative poem, Venus and Adonis, simply to the Earl of Southampton but for his second poem, The Rape of Lucrece, the playwright went further with the dedication, writing: “The love I dedicate to your lordship is without end ... What I have done is yours; what I have to do is yours; being part in all I have, devoted yours.”Others have also suggested that the earl, whose youth and good looks made him a muse for many artists and writers in Elizabethan times, is also the “fair youth” that Shakespeare refers to in his sonnets. Dear’s new play, which will debut in September, was commissioned by Samuel Hodges, the artistic director of the Nuffield theatre in Southampton, to mark the 400th anniversary of Shakespeare’s death with a story that has direct links to the city. The pair said rather than exploring one single line of thinking about Shakespeare and the earl, the play would embrace the speculation, presenting the “multiple realities” about what could have happened between them, and the impact the relationship had both on Shakespeare’s work and life. “All the information about their relationship is so speculative that I thought: why insist on one given reality – why not propose something which might have multiple realities and embrace the fact it is conjecture?” said Dear.“People tend to take one line about Shakespeare and stick with it, but I think there’s an opportunity to have fun with the idea of enjoying the speculation, taking chances with the different possibilities. Did Shakespeare travel in Europe during these two years? Was his relationship with Southampton a sexual one? We don’t know, so why not explore all possible avenues.”The play will examine how Shakespeare, who was from the merchant class, was drawn into an aristocratic world through his relationship with the wealthy earl, and the possibility this informed his later plays which dealt with aristocratic earls, dukes and courtiers. Dear said he had been drawn to the project both as a way to look at the private world of Shakespeare, and also at the “fascinating and contradictory” figure of the Earl of Southampton. The earl was known to enjoy dressing up in women’s clothes, and in 2002 a portrait of a figure with long hair, earrings and a lace collar – always presumed to be a woman – was revealed to be the earl. Yet despite his love of literature and the arts, he also harboured political and military ambitions, and in 1601 was a key player in the 1601 Essex rebellion which attempted to overthrow the queen and was sentenced to life imprisonment in the Tower of London. “Southampton doesn’t live out the life that one might expect from this very effeminate, cross-dressing youth who loved books and sonnets. He’s much more complex than that, and is therefore a fascinating character to play with,” said Dear.For Hodges, the play’s significance lies not just in bringing to life a relatively unexplored area of Shakespeare’s life, but also in the contemporary feel of many of the issues it will explore. The work will delve into the relationship between artists and patrons, which Hodges said resonated with the current discussion around private and public arts funding.The figure of the Earl of Southampton and the questions around his sexuality, and the subsequent questions around Shakespeare’s sexuality, that their relationship raises also speaks to an increasingly fluid attitude towards gender which Hodges said was a “return to Elizabethan attitudes”.He said: “Right now it feels like we are moving towards a much broader and fluid definition of gender. But actually, what we are doing is returning to Elizabethan attitudes – the Earl of Southampton is a classic example of how gender was entirely more slippery and sexuality wasn’t a consideration. “They never spoke of homosexuality and heterosexuality and these terms were never defined. So that’s also something the play will delve into.”