It’s the advice of grandmothers and ageing teachers, an expression which is so well known it’s now an adage: patience is a virtue. And if this spring has taught me anything, it’s that I should have paid more attention to my elders. Now I’m left thinking, why didn’t I wait until May?When spring arrives, after the lean winter months, I can’t wait to get gardening. Everything feels fresh and new. During winter I feel emotionally malnourished, while spring is like a banquet ready to be eaten. But the problem is that I often struggle to control myself. I overindulge; I make mistakes. This year I have paid for my intemperance.Perennial Vegetables: Sow, Grow, Repeat Winter It has been an odd spring. Technically, where I live, the last possible frosts are in the first week in May. However, given the fact that I’m near a major city, and we experience an urban heat island effect, we rarely get a frost after the first week of April. Typically, April is the month to clear my windowsills of seedlings and start to fill up bare soil. It’s a busy time. My garden is sheltered and the soil generally warms up well in the slanting spring sunshine. With a bit of fleece and a cloche or two, I can get away with putting more tender plants out early. I often take risks I shouldn’t. I just can’t help myself. I’m always excited to get growing.While I would never dream of trying to plant out courgettes or direct sow cosmos, there are other plants with which I take risks. My new potatoes, for example, which I always start very early, are poking their heads through the soil, looking for the light. In a nearby bed, I can usually get some broccoli out under cover. Then there is my small olive tree which grows in a large container. I overwinter it in a sunny window, protected from the harsh winter storms. April is the time to pop it back outside, next to the front door. Also, I impulsively picked up a few tender fuchsias in the garden centre and put them into pots. And let’s not even talk about that big marguerite I bought.All of this, I now realise, was a mistake.Goodbye Sad, hello spring I woke up to see, for the first time I can remember, snow on ground at the end of April. I shook my head and cursed my lack of control. By the time I had run outside and started dragging my poor plants in from the battlefield, the damage had been done. Of course, I should have listened. I’ve read the books and know my plant hardiness zones. I know that plant cells are typically 80% – 90% water. And as anyone who has ever forgotten a bottle of Pinot Grigio in the freezer knows, water expands when it freezes. When this happens inside a plant’s cells, it often spells death. Many hardy plants have a clever way around this problem: they use antifreeze: they produce excess sucrose and other organic compounds that stop the water from forming those razor sharp ice crystals in their cells. Conifers are the masters of this technique. Other plants defend themselves by losing their leaves or retreating back underground completely. Annuals, of course, produce seed that can withstand the cold weather while their leafy grow succumbs to the desiccating cold.My tender plants, coming from sunnier climates, had none of these defences. The water in their cells expanded, ruptured, and they died from the inside out. Their yellowing leaves hung down toward the cold soil. The flowers lowered their heads, as if to say with a slow scornful shake, “what were you thinking?”. I had no answer for them.So next year I shall try to listen to my gardening books and pay heed to the instructions on the back of seed packets. We may all try to cheat, to extend the season at both ends, but mother nature is the one who sets the rules. In truth, I know I am lucky to garden on an island where plants from all over the world, from the tip of Africa to the plains of America, are able to be grown. But we still live in a temperate zone and there is only so far I can push the envelope.Now that it’s May, the frosts should be behind us. I’ll be starting again with my half-hardy annuals, and the blackened tops of my potatoes will start to grow again. I have only myself to blame – sowing too early really ain’t any way to have fun, son.