When you’re on the phone, do you talk most of the time or listen? If you have a technical problem, do you ask advice, or try and fix it yourself? According to a quiz doing the rounds on Facebook, the answers to these and eight more questions predict age and gender with astonishing accuracy. So obviously I took the quiz, and back came the astonishingly accurate verdict: I am a 15-year-old boy.Rumbled, obviously. But then again, perhaps it’s just a clever parody designed to make a point about the crumbling of old certainties. So much for all that Venus and Mars nonsense, about how men never listen and women can’t read maps. If there ever was a universal consensus on How to Be a Woman it’s dissolving fast, so much so that we suspect the motives of anyone trying to define femininity too tightly. Just let women, and men, be what they want to be. The rules are that there are no rules.Nicola Thorp’s courage helps us all to beat everyday sexism | Anne Perkins It was in that spirit that parliament this week debated if women should have to wear high heels at work, in honour of the receptionist Nicola Thorp, who was sent home unpaid after objecting to her firm’s ludicrously rigid dress code (heel height of two to four inches, six types of makeup to be worn).It may sound trivial but the case touched a public nerve – the debate was triggered by a petition against dress codes carrying more than 150,000 signatures. It had MPs falling over each other to decry what Labour’s Liz McInnes called “quaint, stereotypical notions of what constitutes femininity”, designed seemingly only to make women’s lives more difficult. Shades of Ginger Rogers, obliged to do everything Fred Astaire did, but backwards in high heels.And much the same rebellious spirit infuses the box-office hit Hidden Figures, the true story of three black female mathematicians working at Nasa in the racially segregated America of the 1960s. Katherine Johnson is mistaken for the cleaner when she enters the all-white office where she will ultimately calculate trajectories for the first US manned orbit of the Earth. When she tells her future husband what she does for a living, he marvels aloud that anyone lets women do that.She has to be twice as good as the male engineers to be taken seriously – all while conforming to a dress code as ridiculous as Nicola Thorp’s – but goes on to prove everyone wrong in a film whose cheering if unsubtle message is that the sky is literally the limit: that a woman can cover a blackboard in equations as fast as any man, while simultaneously exploding racist assumptions. The rules are that there are no rules. Except perhaps the rules imposed on women by women themselves.Enter Dame Jenni Murray. The BBC Woman’s Hour host has been in hot water all week for suggesting that trans women are not quite “real” women because they haven’t been through the same life experiences; that male privilege may in the past have insulated them from what their sisters go through.Murray cited the case of a vicar she once interviewed, the Rev Carol Stone, who was ordained as a man before transitioning and apparently responded to questions about women’s long struggle to enter the priesthood with a ‘blank look’ and something about not knowing what dresses to wear. Murray also upbraided the trans TV presenter India Willoughby for saying during a discussion about workplace dress codes that not shaving your legs was “dirty”, suggesting that the feminist case for not conforming to male ideals of beauty must have passed her by.Some of the bile heaped on Murray has been hideous and it’s disturbing that the BBC has publicly rebuked her for opining on controversial subjects in a way it doesn’t rebuke opinionated male presenters. But that said, her words make me uncomfortable.For anyone who grew up fearing ridicule at best and violence at worst if they failed to “pass”, or gave themselves away by some telltale gesture, the accusation that they’re still getting womanliness subtly wrong – that they’ll never fit – must be unusually inflammatory. It’s easy for me to joke about being mistaken for a 15-year-old boy because in real life, nobody would ever make that mistake. It would be rather less funny if my gender ever had been in doubt.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Jenni Murray was essentially accusing both Stone and Willoughby of not matching feminist ideals of what a woman should be.’ Photograph: Sophia Evans for the ObserverIt also seems cruel to endure the gruelling process of physical transition only to be hauled up for the one thing no surgeon can remove, namely one’s past. For if womanhood is defined as the sum of everything that has ever happened to a woman because of her gender, then logically nobody born with male organs can ever quite attain it. It’s tantamount to saying that you can only be a woman if you’ve always been treated as one.There are, of course, circumstances in which it is important to define womanhood. It’s hardly unreasonable for women’s refuges to worry about male-bodied people entering shelters; and just because the risk of violent men gaining access in this way sounds far-fetched, it doesn’t make it non-existent. Setting aside inevitable controversies over female changing rooms and loos, there are practical issues to resolve.But that’s not what Murray was saying. She was essentially accusing both Stone and Willoughby of not matching feminist ideals of what a woman should be. And much as I agree with Madeleine Albright that there’s a special circle in hell for women who don’t help other women – well, if there are no rules, there can be no rules.It can be no more true that women are all naturally empathetic or sisterly than that we’re all rubbish at maths. The logical consequence of trying to dismantle artificial definitions of femininity – of letting women be what they want to be – is that sometimes they might want to be something you don’t actually like. Murray is right, of course, that women are shaped by the society they move through. But we are not all shaped in the same way by the same experiences.After all, there are cis women who think International Women’s Day is loathsome guff, who couldn’t give a stuff about female ordination, and can’t see further than their own wardrobe dilemmas. There are selfish women, insensitive women, downright dislikable women, and women who are just plain wrong about stuff – but while that may make them unsatisfactory Woman’s Hour guests, that doesn’t make them un-women, any more than flat shoes or a knack for quadratic equations does.You don’t have to agree with a woman to accept that she’s real enough.