Adam RamsayActivist, co-editor of openDemocracy’s OurKingdomUK, adviser for BrightGreen.When I was a student at Edinburgh, we used to protest at the career fair every year. One time, Esso [ExxonMobil] had got someone to set up their stall, but their staff failed to show up. My sister and I put on our best suits and staffed the stall for the morning, giving students an honest appraisal of what it was like to work for a company whose work is bound up with brutality, corruption, murder and planetary destruction the world over. After hours of these conversations with students, the poor Careers’ Service manager realised we weren’t really from Esso. The look on her face stays with me to this day.  Photograph: OtherThere was a generation of climate activists who wasted a huge amount of time trying to get people to change their consumer behaviour. All this did was make us sound preachy and annoying, and like we blamed ordinary people for a planetary problem.When I look at a new generation of climate activists focusing their energy on big oil companies and those who fund them, occupying their universities if they refuse to divest from fossil fuels, talking about how we change the system rather than how we change a few lightbulbs, that fills me with hope.Read, watch and follow this: George Monbiot’s Heat, Naomi Klein’s This Changes Everything, Taking on Tarmageddon film, Scottish land movement   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Taking on Tarmageddon, a documentary by two groups of student activists concerned about the human cost of the Alberta tar sandsLucy GilliamCo-Founder of New Dawn Traders and Exxpedition   Photograph: OtherIt’s important for young people to know that a lot of the jobs that will exist when they start looking don’t really exist yet. I had a dream for a long time, almost a childhood dream, and it’s being fulfilled. A few years ago I had quite a high flying academic career, a PhD and a government job, and I quit it all to get involved in New Dawn Traders – to jump on a zero carbon motorless ship and sail to the Caribbean and back to trade rum, chocolate and spices. I’m living the life I never thought would be possible until I started it. And if someone out there does care about the environment and has a dream of what the future looks like, and they’re depressed that their current reality doesn’t match that dream yet, they should make sure keep taking baby steps towards it. Keep communicating the future that they want and describing how it might work, and it can happen. That is what will change the world. It’s not about defining how things have been done in the past by other people, it’s about keeping people hopeful and empowering them to keep following their dreams.Read, watch and follow this: Uncivilisation – The Dark Mountain Manifesto, Caroline Lucas, Loess Plateau film   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Alice BellWriter, academic, and campaigner. Head of Campaign Communications at 10:10.  Alice BellMy most memorable campaign story was probably watching activists sneak a longboat into the British Museum as part of a protest against BP sponsoring the Viking exhibition. The activists had advertised publicly that they were going to do this, so the museum had a lot of security checking bags to try to stop it. But the activists got in anyway (the “boat” was made of people and cloth, so it snuck in gradually under security’s eyes). It was beautiful.I want the climate movement to grow in size and power, and to appreciate its diversity to give more space to voices that are currently marginalised. More pragmatically, I hope it manages to get through the end of this year shining, ready to take on whatever the outcome of the Paris talks. We’ve all been focused on 2015 as a massive deadline for so long, we need to ensure we’re ready to start 2016 running, too.Read, watch and follow this: Spencer Weart’s The Discovery of Global Warming, Mark Lynas’ Six Degrees, Bill McKibben’s Global Warming’s Terrible New MathDan Glass Award-winning activist and academic.  Dan Glass Photograph: OtherI attempted to superglue myself to the then-prime minister Gordon Brown (as you do), to highlight the hypocrisy of receiving a campaigning award for working with communities to challenge airport runways – off the guy who wanted to expand them.Later, I stuck myself with the dregs of the glue onto Downing Street’s gates and the security guard just looked at me and shook his head. Oh dear.Then the press went wild. The next day, I visited my nan who was in hospital at the time. She was sitting upright in bed with all the newspaper clippings on top of her, shouting and boasting in her shrill Polish-Yiddish accent, “Look at my grandson! What is your grandson doing? Look at my grandson! All over the papers! Oy vey!’ Bless her, I couldn’t bear to tell her that she missed out the part about the superglue and thought I was in the papers just for winning an award!Honour sadness. If you aren’t sad, even utterly depressed, at the gut-wrenching environmental and social destruction going on all over planet Earth, something is up. If you aren’t dazzled at the fact that 50% of the world’s beautiful biodiversity has been annihilated in the last forty years and that some humans think it’s a good idea to blow up sacred mountains to mine for minerals that make phone apps run faster – I would be worried and recommend you seek help. Sadness can move people to incredible, compassionate and daring acts for the greater common good. Don’t run away from it.Read, watch and follow this: Hannah Arendt’s The Banality of Evil, Arundhati Roy’s The Greater Common Good, Rebecca Solnit’s Hope in the Dark, the animation ‘Wake Up, Freak Out, Get A Grip’, the films ‘Niyamgiri, You are Still Alive’ and ‘The Village Under the Forest’, and Coconut RevolutionAndrew TobertWriter and activist who has campaigned with Climate Rush and against fracking at Balcombe      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: OtherWhen I was arrested (and put on the Domestic Extremist list) for dancing to Britney Spears next to an airport, that was funny. Also, when the policeman was chatting to me in the squad car, said, “You look like you’re going to be good boy,” then winked ... I wasn’t sure what to make of that. I’ve also had serious, adult-to-adult conversations about what to do if I wet myself on an action, and if/when it’s appropriate to change into nappies.The future really is ours to shape. The world we live in now has been designed by and for white men. I hope the future isn’t.Read, watch and follow this: Nelson Mandela’s Long Walk to Freedom, Blackfish, Cowspiracy, Greenpeace