Today, Charlotte, you seem worried and you say with a laugh: “I don’t know what this book is any more … I’ve lost track. What if I actually like the book we make together?” Who I Am. Not a biography. Not a song. Let’s call it a poem. I see you in your black stockings with an elusive smile. Always an elusive smile. Everything is true in our book. Except the things that aren’t. Deep.It starts at an editorial meeting. We want you, Charlotte. You are dangerous. Yet you have chosen to write your autobiography with another publisher. But I sense your reticence. I feel I can be there for you, Charlotte. Only I can understand she who cannot be understood. You break into a smile. You have decided not to do an autobiography. There can be no you without you. I say to you: “I will not hurt you, Charlotte.” I love you, Charlotte. J’adore. Le Piat d’Or.My name is Tessa Rampling. Charlotte is my middle name. We have made a start. I can feel you easing into my consciousness, forcing your memories on to mine. Our laughter and tears become one.No hint of trembling as you stand naked in the Louvre. I too am naked, standing at your door. I knock. You let me in. I feel your suffering. It must be hard being Charlotte Rampling. Talking is hard. Writing is hard. The words don’t come. Except these ones. Malheureusement. We talk and laugh. You say: “Maybe we’ll never meet again.” My legs ache. Then you say: “When will we see each other again, Christophe?”The family safe was sealed for ever by Godfrey, your father, who won gold at the Berlin Olympics. I will write for you, Charlotte, but the Knight never sets the Maiden free.I walk forwards. I walk backwards. I walk backwards towards myself. I enrol on a creative writing course for beginners.I was born near Cambridge. My father kissed me and went to Malta. The history of men. My mother loved to love. But this baby just loved to dance. Oh yeah. Here are some photos of my parents.The trees envelop us. Arching low and green. You speak in a whisper. I think I hear you say you’ve just come back from California, where you’ve been playing the part of a psychiatrist. But maybe I’m imagining that. Is it going to go on like this? The river of my life. The life of my river.One day my mother is in a wheelchair. My father remains silent. But did you love him? Silence overwhelms you. Then you look at me and break into a smile. This is to be your answer. I feel as if I already knew it.An auction dealer comes to the house. He has some of my possessions. How did he come to have them? It was your father, Charlotte. He gave them away. And now you have the opportunity to buy your life back. You do so to keep the box closed. A place of dust.I must try not to get too attached to you, Charlotte. But it is not easy. In fact, it is hard.There is your sister, Sarah. She flutters in the distance like a butterfly. I try to catch her, but she evades my grasp. Now she is at a boarding school. But you’re still here. Though as the scent of a ghost. It’s strange. You haven’t run away. Neither have I. You say: “Please don’t be angry, Christophe, if you find there is so little to say. Do not forget, we agreed this is only a poem.”I see you, father. He runs like the wind. Though the gold turns to steel. We moved a lot. Sometimes we are here. Sometimes we are there. But always we are nowhere. Even when we are in France. Here is another photograph of you and Sarah. What name shall we give it? All childhood is bathed in light.I’m coming to be with you, Sarah. You have run off to Argentina with Carlos. Our mother gets a letter and turns pale. You have died mysteriously. I ask my father why Sarah has died. He remains locked in silence for many years. And then he tells me that you killed yourself after giving birth to a boy.Charlotte, your heart is all mine. You have given me your trust. The least I can do is sing you a song.When love steps inAnd takes you for a spinOh la la, c’est magnifique.You went on an underground ride and came out another person. Aren’t you writing any more? I don’t know. Each day disappears when another one starts. Your son and Sarah’s son are now together. They are as one. We are as one. Our journey is complete.Digested read, digested: From ballad to worse.