At a different time in her life, Jodie Fox would have shrugged off the comment. This time something didn’t feel right.In March the Australian co-founder of custom shoe retailer Shoes of Prey agreed to meet a potential investor at a bar, on his suggestion. It was the first time they’d met and as they greeted each other, he looked her up and down and said “You look amazing.”She didn’t remark on the comment at the time, but it worried Fox. Although it wasn’t an overtly sexist remark, she remembers thinking it felt inappropriate for a business meeting. Increased number of women on ASX 200 boards is 'encouraging progress' Bothered by the incident but concerned she was overreacting, she posted a YouTube video the next day describing what happened and invited comments. In the video she explains: “It’s these seemingly innocuous comments that are what contribute to creating this barrier to opportunities for women professionally.”The reaction was swift. Most agreed it was an inappropriate comment, with many noting it was something that happens all too frequently, particularly to women in a sales context.Lisa Annese, chief executive of Diversity Council of Australia, watched Fox’s video and agreed her response was reasonable and not an overreaction. “Certainly if she felt uncomfortable and that was too personal and too much of a focus on her personal appearance, then I think it’s OK to feel uncomfortable.” However some of the commenters asked Fox how she would react if the compliment had come from another woman or from a gay man. She thinks it comes down to context. “I’m not taking into account the rapport that women build by talking about and complimenting each other on their outfits, so it is really tricky and I don’t know the answer to that,” she said. “[But] it’s something that has a different meaning when it comes from a man.” The person who is responsible for the comment is the person who is responsible for the comment.Lisa Annese, ceo of Diversity Council of Australia One of the commenters was online retail entrepreneur Ruslan Kogan, who thought that meeting in a bar made the comment appropriate. He said: “It’s also a comment that I’ve made to my mother and grandmother many times so I think you’re reading a bit too much into it.”Fox agrees it can sometimes be appropriate to tell a woman she looks good, but in very different circumstances. “The very example he has given of his mother and his grandmother, are very different to a business environment, so I can see where he’s coming from but I don’t think it’s entirely on point.” But she can see why some men think they get mixed signals about what is appropriate. “There’s this idea about telling someone they look nice is a good thing to do. [Men think women] will feel like they look nice if I tell them that, and that’s a good way to kick things off, so they are getting that message. Then on the other side, businesswomen are saying ‘No, no, that has nothing to do with what we are talking about here.’”'Privilege is invisible to those who have it': engaging men in workplace equality For Annese, there’s nothing vague about the situation. “The idea about mixed messages to men unfortunately might play into the hands of men not having the power to make the decisions, and the blame again being put onto women for giving out the right message. Sometimes a woman might be quiet because she is intimidated and embarrassed, and I don’t interpret that as a mixed message, I’d interpret that as a woman not giving the message because she might be intimidated. I think we need to remember that the person who is responsible for the comment is the person who is responsible for the comment.” Fox says she was “ashamed” that she didn’t say anything in the meeting. “I should have said something so that the next time he goes into a meeting, he nails it and doesn’t say ‘Hey you look amazing’, he actually says ‘Oh it’s really great to meet you’.”Her reaction comes down to how women are taught to smile and accept the compliment, says Annese. “It’s inbred in us to not outwardly say ‘Oh I don’t appreciate that or you’ve made me feel uncomfortable.’ We’re not raised that way, we are raised to be nice, and I think that that together with the fact there are probably some power issues, given she was meeting with a client … come into play.” She adds: “Unfortunately if someone on the receiving end doesn’t get a clear message, they may not realise that what they are saying is making the other person uncomfortable – but it still doesn’t stop it being so.”Sexism at work - your stories: 'if I were to complain, I wouldn’t have a career' It’s not the first time Fox has dealt with an uncomfortable situation as a woman in business, although it’s something she has come across more frequently in a senior position. “When I was younger I probably would not even thought about it, because I had so many shields and protections around me, but I didn’t realise that it was something that was driving this bigger issue.”Those incidents were more overt, however. “[This] was a situation that I felt was very easy to be torn about. I didn’t think the guy was a bad guy at all, I don’t think he had this horrible sleazy outlook. I thought he’s probably just being taught that’s the right thing to say to a woman when you’re in a meeting.”The nuances of this situation are what make it worth discussing, says Fox: “Let’s unpack all of this and try and figure out what’s right and what is really biased and making women uncomfortable.”Annese agrees, although she says it should be standard business practice for all organisations to be clear about what constitutes sexual harassment. She points to the sex discrimination act for a clear definition: “That definition includes words, comments, gestures, that make the other person feel uncomfortable.” “We should remember that it shouldn’t always be up to the person who is being harassed to object, that the act itself is wrong, and people have a right to come to work and not feel like they have to navigate through a dating landscape.”10 sexist scenarios that women face at work What’s your experience? Tell us what you think: is a comment on appearance inappropriate in a business context, even in the fashion business? Should the investor have said something else? Is this confusing for both sexes? Or is there no ambiguity at all?Share your stories, photos and videos of similar experiences by clicking on the blue “Contribute” button on this article to upload to GuardianWitness or filling in the form below, and using the hashtag #canhesaythat on social media. We will be publishing some of the best on the Guardian.GuardianWitness is the home of readers’ content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others.