RootsA timely reboot of the 1977 historical saga for the age of Black Lives Matter. Malachi Kirby takes up the role of Kunta Kinte, abducted in the Gambia and sold to a plantation owner in 18th-century Virginia. Cue a multi-generational epic that tracks the African-American experience from slavery to reconstruction. Powerful, urgent television. Wednesday 8 February, 9pm, BBC4UnforgottenSeries two of Chris Lang’s marvellously moody crime drama has been teasing out revelations for the past five weeks, but now Sunny and Cassie (Sanjeev Bhaskar and Nicola Walker) are finally ready to give us an answer as to who murdered David Walker. Thursday 9 February, 9pm, ITVFake News Week      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Not you … Stephen Mangan will host Fake News Week. Photograph: David LeveneThe power of post-truth headlines became evident during the recent US election, as made-up stories clogged up Facebook feeds around the world. This week, Channel 4 explores news-based fakery at large, via a host of docs and a panel show fronted by Stephen Mangan. From Monday 6 February, 8pm, Channel 4Apple Tree YardGiven that it’s usually reserved for crowd-pleasing fare like Poldark and Sherlock, it seemed a risk for BBC1 to fill its Sunday night slot with this unflinching thriller, starring Emily Watson and Ben Chaplin. Yet Apple Tree Yard’s taut depiction of the aftermath of sexual assault has been greeted with acclaim and high ratings. It concludes with two episodes this week. Sunday 5 February and Monday 6 February, 9pm, BBC1The Moorside      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stranger than fiction … Sheridan Smith in The Moorside. Photograph: Stuart Wood/ITV/BBCSheridan Smith stars in this probing two-part drama based on the stranger-than-fiction disappearance of schoolgirl Shannon Matthews. From Tuesday 7 February, 9pm, BBC1The Refugee DiariesIn light of recent developments in the US, this documentary series following a young Syrian refugee is all the more pertinent. Its final instalment launches this week. From Thursday 9 February, BBC3The Jump      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Crunch! The Jump returns for a miraculous fourth run. Photograph: Steve Brown/Channel 4/PACrunch! The injury-prone reality contest returns for a fourth run, with a lineup ranging from Big Brother and Towie has-beens to none other than Tour De France-squashing, multi-Olympic-medal-winning cyclist Sir Bradley Wiggins. Can he stick the landing? From Sunday 5 February, 7.30pm, Channel 4Abstract: the Art of DesignDesign documentaries can be about as exciting as watching (Pantone-coloured) paint dry. Enter Netflix, delving into the minds of a legendary Nike trainer designer, a TED talk-ing architect and more, all with unpretentious energy. From Friday 10 February, NetflixChewing Gum      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Brilliantly filthy … Chewing Gum. Photograph: Mark Johnson/Channel 4Michaela Coel’s brilliantly filthy comedy winds up its second series tonight with a double bill. Expect yet more hilarity as Tracey and Ola continue to make poor dating decisions and God-fearing Cynthia comes out of her shell. Catch up with both series on All4. Thursday 8 February, 10pm, E4Arena: Alone with Chrissie Hynde“I’m a lone, hungry, irritable wolf,” deadpans the Pretenders frontwoman in this wonderful, up-close film about her life. Cameras follow the now 65-year-old Hynde in New York, London, Paris and her home town of Akron, Ohio, offering a rare glimpse into the private life of a punk rock icon, interspersed with concert footage of her band’s ageless hits. Friday 10 February, 9pm, BBC4