Demonstrators facing eviction from an anti-fracking camp have won 11th-hour permission to stay put while they go to the court of appeal. On Monday a judge at Manchester’s high court made an order for possession against the collective occupying land at Barton Moss in Salford, Greater Manchester.The order was to take effect from midday today. But eviction was stayed just before the noon deadline by the appeal court to give the protesters an opportunity to apply for permission to appeal. The possession order was granted by Judge Pelling QC to major landholder Peel, which has given energy firm IGas permission to carrying out exploratory drilling on the land to see if gas extraction by fracking can be done there. Since November anti-fracking groups have gathered in protest, setting up an encampment of tents and old caravans and disrupting work at the site, with police making a series of arrests for public order offences. About 60 protesters have repeatedly sat or laid in the road, stopping lorries going to and from the site. Their lawyers are seeking to appeal on the grounds that Judge Pelling went wrong in law when making the possession order, and the order itself breached their right to occupy the land as their home under Article 8 of the European Convention of Human Rights. Judge Pelling ruled that the group had failed to make out an arguable legal case that they had established a home at Barton Moss. Ugo Hayter, from law firm Leigh Day, is representing the campaigners and welcomed the appeal court’s decision “to stay the possession order pending a proper opportunity to consider our grounds of appeal”. Barton Moss, on the outskirts of Salford, is one of a number of sites across the UK where fracking is being carried out. Fracking, or hydraulic fracturing, is a method to extract shale gas from rocks using water and chemicals under high pressure. While the government says it is a new energy source with potential to create jobs and wealth, opponents say it will damage the environment. Police say patrolling the site has cost taxpayers at least £700,000. 