Galapagos 9pm, BBC1The Galapagos Islands are such a staple of nature docs that it’s surprising nobody has made one studying the hefty population of film crews who are, at any given moment, making docs about the Galapagos Islands. Nevertheless, this is a worthy addition to the canon. Liz Bonnin joins research vessel the Alucia, and a search not just for the familiar giant tortoises – who must have their own agent by now – but for more elusive fauna, including the volcano-dwelling pink iguana. Andrew MuellerThe Last Kingdom 9pm, BBC2The first day in a new job is always rough, but Uhtred’s employee induction – sold into slavery and thrown into chains on a longboat – goes beyond faffing with uncooperative swipecards. Hild and Ragnar attempt a rescue but, with the slave ship departed for parts unknown, success seems unlikely. Back home, with Guthred inexperienced in the ways of war, Alfred adopts a jaw-jaw approach. His attempts at diplomacy soon prove more than a little Boris-esque. Mark Gibbings-JonesThree Wives, One Husband 9pm, Channel 4You embrace plural marriage, why not TV? That’s the story with this series about a polygamous family in a Mormon community at Rockland Ranch in Moab, Utah. Against a backdrop of communal food-gathering and modern cave homes blasted out of the rock, we follow Abel Morrison as he attempts to manage a difficult dynamic. His newest wife, Marina, is about to give birth. His first wife is pretty cool about it, but his second wife is struggling. John RobinsonRich House, Poor House9pm, Channel 5Inequality porn is rife on our screens. This series sees families from opposite ends of the income league swap lives for a week. Anthony Williams from Weston-super-Mare works at a warehouse to provide for his partner and six kids, while the Caddy family enjoy the splendour of Clifton in Bristol. By sampling the delights and privations of delicatessens and electricity meters, they want to see if money does buy happiness. Spoiler – it helps. David StubbsEyewitness 10pm, Channel 4Two teenage boys, one of whom is being fostered by the local police chief, don’t want to say what they were doing in a forest cabin at night, so they try to keep quiet about witnessing a murder. With no whodunnit to unravel, this Norwegian thriller focuses on the case disturbing buried secrets. The groundwork of establishing all the connections means the drama hasn’t quite clicked by the end of episode one – head for the Walter Presents online box set to see if it will. Jack SealeThe Legacy9pm, Sky ArtsA third and final season for the Danish drama, which began as an inheritance epic before widening out to focus more generally on the Grønnegaard family’s strained dynamics. As it begins, Frederik makes a surprise appearance at Gro’s gallery, where Hannah is showing her performance art. However, his presence is overshadowed by a band of seeming gatecrashers. Meanwhile, Signe and Karin cut a deal. More heartache than hygge, this is Scandi melodrama at its best. Hannah J DaviesChicago Justice 9pm, UniversalFollowing Chicago Fire, Chicago PD and Chicago Med comes Chicago Justice, focusing on the prosecutors of the state’s attorney’s office. In this first episode, which picks up on a plot seen in both Chicago PD and Chicago Fire, attorney Peter Stone and investigator Antonio Dawson are on the case of a horrific arson attack at a warehouse rave, and the well-to-do young man’s confession at the centre of it. Expect a lot of chewed scenery. Ben ArnoldFilm choiceThe Last of the Mohicans (Michael Mann, 1992) 9pm, Sony Movie ChannelLong before Leonardo DiCaprio went into the wilderness for The Revenant, Daniel Day-Lewis took to the woods with his musket to inhabit the role of Hawkeye, paleface hero of Fenimore Cooper’s leatherstocking tale. It’s done on an epic scale: bloodcurdling action set in towering north American landscapes, with Day-Lewis a lean and strong romantic hero in the Gary Cooper mould. Madeleine Stowe makes a gutsy colonel’s daughter drawn to the wild man, while stone-faced Wes Studi is an implacable Magua. Paul HowlettLive sportCycling: 3 Days of De Panne The final day includes an individual time trial. 1pm, Eurosport 2Premier League darts From the Motorpoint Arena, Cardiff. Including Raymond van Barneveld v James Wade. 7pm, Sky Sports 1Super League rugby: Salford Red Devils v St Helens A top-flight match at the AJ Bell Stadium. 7pm, Sky Sports 2