Prime minister wanted. Must have strong leadership, crisis management skills. Knowledge of global finance systems, constitutional law preferable. Salary: £143k. Please send covering letter and CV to: EVERYONE. Oh, and don’t make stuff up!Andrea Leadsom, the Tory leadership hopeful, has been forced to clear up a couple of queries about her CV. Anxious to burnish her extra-political credentials as a former finance bigwig, the Brexit cheerleader has been accused of overstating her experience.A former colleague claims that she managed neither people nor funds, despite the impression given by an old job title (“senior investment officer and head of corporate governance”). Team Andrea has now published her CV and admitted that “job titles can convey misapprehensions”.It is a distraction but has Leadsom committed such a sin? Isn’t the whole point of a CV to massage reality, to recast your former shelf-stacker self as an “assistant stock controller”? We are talking grey areas here, right?“It’s actually unusual for job titles to be grey,” says Keith Rosser, head of screening at recruitment agency Reed. “Employers know the difference between a business development manager and a business development director and while you should be positive about your experience, the long-term damage to your career can be greater than any benefit you’d get from making something up.”Rosser’s team vets more than 100,000 job applications a year and recently found that one in four was misleading in some way. “I’d say there’s a growing case for being honest in recruitment today, but I wouldn’t say that’s being reflected in what people are doing,” he adds.Leadsom is not the first politician to be caught out – and it never did Iain Duncan Smith any harm. In 2002, it emerged that he had not been a director at defence firm GEC-Marconi, despite the claims in his Conservative Party biography. Nor had he obtained a degree at the prestigious University of Perugia; he dropped out of the University for Foreigners Perugia, a language school. What’s Italian for awkward?It was not one of Jeffrey Archer’s many works of fiction when he said that he studied at Wellington – only it was the school of that name in Somerset, not the fancy Wellington College in Berkshire. And when he said he studied at Oxford, it was the Oxford department of education, where he got a diploma. At least we’ve been warned about Leadsom’s CV. In the meantime, we should judge her talents for finance based on her assurances before the referendum that “there will not be an economic impact” from Brexit. Simon Usborne‘I had intended to write more for the student newspaper … I was just too lazy’Without wanting to condone Andrea Leadsom’s massaging of her professional past in the City, who hasn’t, at some point, done something similar with their CV? Mine isn’t a sexing up of investment banker proportions but then again, who can compete in such matters with our political elite?Rewind to Glasgow, 2001, when everyone listed “travel” and “socialising” under hobbies and interests on their CVs, even if they had only been to St Ives once and preferred playing their Nintendo 64 to talking to people. I graduated with a first-class degree in English literature and philosophy and a first-class desperation to become a writer, but no experience of having been one. This may have been because I was too young (and silly) to have had actual experiences, but it did not deter me. No, it made me realise – not explicitly, but in a bored, unthinking, studenty way – that if I was to become a real writer, I would have to make stuff up like a real writer.And so I compiled a CV, which probably consisted of nine-tenths fonts and formatting and one-tenth actual content. Under “relevant experience” (in Helvetica, bold, 14pt, naturally) I wrote that I was one of the main feature writers on the university newspaper, which was called the Glasgow Guardian. This was not exactly an untruth. I really liked the paper. And I had written one piece for it in four years of undergraduate study: a minuscule review of a documentary about Egypt starring Oliver Reed and shown at Glasgow’s brand new Imax cinema. (The film was as ridiculous as it sounds, but I may have said I liked it: more lies!) The truth is, I had always intended to write more for the Glasgow Guardian … I was just too lazy to do it. Like most people who lie on their CV, I presented the self I wanted to be rather than the one I was. As Lady Catherine de Bourgh says of playing the piano in Pride and Prejudice: “If I had ever learnt, I should have been a great proficient.”Anyway, I never told and no one ever found out. In truth, no newspaper or magazine replied to the CVs I sent out begging for paid work experience. Until, eventually, after I’d given up and started working in telesales where a spell at the Glasgow Guardian, fictitious or otherwise, meant nothing, the Big Issue in Scotland took me on. My “time” at the Glasgow Guardian never came up and it has never been mentioned since. Until now. Chitra Ramaswamy      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Andrea Leadsom, whose old job title may have led to ‘misapprehensions’. Photograph: Peter Nicholls/Reuters‘I had not the faintest idea what to do with a nine-month-old baby’When I was 18, I wanted to learn Italian. A friend was working as an au pair, on the Amalfi Coast. Another family was looking for help. Was I interested?The mother called me for an interview. I had done well in my A-levels. This, along with the fact that I knew the music of Francesco de Gregori, AKA the Italian Bob Dylan, seemed to interest her more than my childcare experience. I told her I had always taken care of my younger brother. This was true, but by then he was 14. Her son was nine months. It is quite likely that I also cited my godparenting credentials, although I can only imagine that these went uninterrogated. The only way to get any job at that age was to exaggerate experience and I assumed everyone knew this: as I see it now, I put my faith in each would-be employer to decode the overstatement and make the right decision.The parents met me at Naples airport. They played Francesco de Gregori in the car on the way to their apartment. The next day I met their baby, a cheerful, energetic boy, and realised I had not the faintest idea what to do with him. Looking back, perhaps that didn’t matter: I remember feeling something similar on that intimate first night with my firstborn. But at the time I felt painfully conscious of my incompetence.I learned to change his nappies, prepare his food, and wash and iron his clothes. He hurled himself around the flat in his baby walker while I raced to hide the sharp corners of furniture under my hands. Everything was at temple height. When he awoke at night, it was me who got up to settle him. Soon I became so tired, and so fretful, that even when he was safely enclosed inside his playpen, I would sit watching him – as if he might otherwise escape. “You don’t need to be with him the whole time!” the mother chided. But the responsibility weighed on me and I knew no other way.One weekend we went to stay with the baby’s grandparents near Rome. He was scooting around the veranda in that wretched baby walker. Someone had tied a rope to it, so I could make sure he didn’t drop over the edge. I was on my nerves running around hauling him back whenever he got close, and then one afternoon, the rope slid from my hand. He landed in the grass, unharmed and smiling. But it was enough for me. I handed in my notice and they accepted. I didn’t touch another baby until I had my own. Paula Cocozza‘They pleaded with me never to apply for a job at the Guardian again’I was doing casual shifts as a subeditor at the Guardian, and applied for a staff job on the arts desk. The bit on the CV where it says special interests/areas of expertise was pretty honest – football and theatre, it said. (And I did love football.) I thought it needed jazzing up though. So I added India.The thing is, I had been to India that year, and I was a bit of an expert – I knew all about how you have to be really careful with street food, how much the weed cost from local dealers on Dal Lake, how living on a house-boat with people you didn’t know could be claustrophobic, how a bad acid trip can almost do for you, how beautiful Kashmir is, how dangerous the bus trip from Srinagar to Ladakh could be, how quickly you could get drenched in the monsoon. I had even read A House For Mr Biswas by VS Naipaul, seen the film Gandhi and knew that Freddie Mercury’s parents were Parsi. Of course I was an expert. Bring it on.So when the panel of interviewers brought up India, I thought bingo; job’s a good ’un. And then they got going: what did I think of Nehru’s role in the Sino-Indian war? Could the Communist party of India could work effectively with VP Singh’s Janata Dal? Was Indira Gandhi right to support Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale after the Emergency, and how would I solve the crisis in the Punjab? (My answers were roughly: 1) Good; 2) Yes; 3) No; 4) Stop people fighting and make everybody sing Elvis Costello’s What’s so Funny ’Bout Peace, Love and Understanding?And still the India questions kept coming. If it had been a boxing match, I would have ended up in hospital on life support.Towards the end, the panel eased off. They asked why I wanted to work at the Guardian. “Well,” I said, “I like the fact that everybody ‘lets on to you’ [gives a nod hello] when you’re walking down the corridor.” There were three senior editors in the room – they gave each other a look. (I later discovered that it had been a big mistake saying that because a) they thought that letting on was something to do with breaking wind, and b) they didn’t let on anyway.)I knew they weren’t impressed so, desperately scrabbling for survival, I said there was more – I’m from Manchester, the Guardian is my paper, I like its politics, and when I was growing up we had a Guardian ashtray in our upstairs loo featuring a front page showing the Berlin Wall being erected.I didn’t get the job. In fact, they pleaded with me never to apply again for a job at the Guardian. That was 25 years ago. Simon Hattenstone‘I said I’d worked in a bar for years, then served up pints of froth’I had a thin employment history: a paper round, a summer spent serving ice-creams in a park cafe, and worst of all, a job working as a washer-upper at the local boys’ public school. I had also had two weeks’ work experience at a newspaper, but working at a newspaper qualifies you for virtually nothing.I had never worked in a pub, though I had been to a few. I had seen pints pulled and cocktails made (I say cocktails, but this was the 1990s and we mainly drank vodka and cranberry if we fancied a change from a bottle of alcopops). I was a student, and needed an evening job. I managed to get one at a thrilling, banging bar that had opened a couple of years earlier in Brixton, south London, well before the artisan craft brewers had moved in.I told the man who interviewed me that I’d worked in a bar for years – the Met Bar. The Met Bar was a members’ club which, for a short time, was the hippest place in London. And it had only just opened, so it was a bad lie. I’ve never been good at coming up with a convincing lie – I once told my schoolfriends that my father, a middle-aged Turkish man, was in Soul II Soul.The night – and I only lasted the one night – was long and humiliating. I served up great pints of froth and, being somewhat square, I had never heard of any of the spirits that people asked for. I did know what a tequila slammer was and made 16 for a man who then claimed he had left his wallet back with his friends. It’s fine, I said, pay me later (he never did). Which I think makes me a contender for the worst bartender ever. Or the best, depending on how you look at it. Emine Saner