Ever think that Gordon Ramsay’s TV persona is a bit cartoonish? You’ve seen nothing yet. Now, the potty mouth of the cordon bleu world has decided to become the main character in a cartoony smartphone game (created by a team whose previous illustrious achievements include Kim Kardashian’s official iPhone game). The idea: you’re based in a kitchen, and have to prep food while Ramsay loiters near the bins, offering advice. And occasional abuse.What can we take from it, though? What lessons are to be learned from this rare insight into working up close and personal with the celebrity chef? And also, is he pleased that within a few days of release, he was right up there with “Matalan App” for popularity? He is superhumanSwipe the screen fast enough to get your orders flying out to customers and then Ramsay will spontaneously burst into flames. Tap on him, and he’ll announce: “I’m … SUPER-GORDON!” before whizzing around the restaurant in a ball of fire and spontaneously serving every single diner. Which, definitely, definitely isn’t an indication that he has any kind of messiah complex. Nuh-uh.Ramsay’s Hotel Hell review – a tired recipe undermined by the lack of a key fact 2. He’s incredibly kind and nurturingIn what is almost certainly a completely faithful indication of what it’s like to work under Chef Shouty in a kitchen, Ramsay is a calm and encouraging persona. Never mind the fact that on every single one of his TV shows ever, he rejoices in pointlessly riling people up and announcing that their overdone cheeseburgers taste like a bag of minced arses. Nope, here he’s just slightly disappointed if you burn something. Although, if you do successfully complete a level, his comment that: “Trust me, you’ve got talent,” is uttered while brandishing a carving knife in a way that implies: ”And that’s the only reason you’ve still got your legs.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Show Chef Shouty what you can do. Photograph: Glu Mobile3. His culinary standards are lower than you’d thinkAt one point you find yourself placing turkey that looks like latex gloves amidst dry slices of bread while he mutters “stunning”, “stunning”, “stunning”. A few levels in, he announces: “Check out the new menu item. Cooked right, it’s one of my favourite dishes!” before showing you how to make a hash brown upon which someone appears to have drawn a mini recreation of the river Thames in ketchup. Michelin-starred cooking sure has gone downhill.4. He’s a fun man to disappointIf you’re a devotee of Chef Ramsay and his love of reducing independent restaurateurs to tears, then you’ll probably want to play this game to win and, to be fair, it’s an extremely addictive game. However, there is a certain charm to deliberately fluffing the task as badly as possible so that you end the game with him stroppily yelling: “That’s IT! Shut this fucking shithole down!” (this really happens). Particularly given that his praise sounds so insincerely mumbled it’s like listening to a man who’s shot with a tranquiliser dart.