I spent a lot of time with extended family when I was young. Every weekend, Dad would buy half a sheep and Mum would cook for about 50 people, and we would all eat on the couch, in the kitchen, spilling out into the garden. Dad’s job was to keep the family together and he did that every weekend.My siblings and I have ended up very close as a result of that big family because it was a manic kind of existence. I used to cherish the time I had with just them. When you are one of six, your brothers and sisters become your best mates. We fought – and still do – but they are the only ones who forget the argument within 30 seconds. They have been so accepting and encouraging of all the changes in my life recently.As a child, I loved being outdoors. Our house had a railway track going past it. Of course, Mum told us not to go near it  and, of course, we did. There were amazing blackberry bushes growing all along it, and we collected the fruit. In the garden, we washed them under the outdoor tap and then we made chutney. Mum was a big gardener, so she had chilli, coriander and all kinds of things growing, so we’d add it all to this garden chutney and eat it. Of course, the parents had no idea where we’d got the fruit – but they all loved the fact we had made chutney.I went to an all-girls’ school, where I was an overachiever who pretended I never revised. No one likes a swot, but I didn’t care. I loved being top of the class. I always worked hard and wanted to do well.My parents’ circumstances were so different from mine – my life is far easier than theirs. Two of my siblings were quite poorly as children, so they had to divide their time even more carefully between us all, which was tough, I think.Dad was eight when he came to Britain from Bangladesh and Mum was in her teens. As children, we went back every year for a summer holiday – Dad wanted us to know where we came from and to remind us that we lived a comfortable life, but that many people didn’t – and still don’t. It was a big lesson for us. Dad was proud that Grandad was a rice and buffalo farmer, and wanted us to know – and to be proud of him, too. We went for seven months once, when I was 10, so we could understand how hard my grandad worked to earn a living.How my parents are in the kitchen is a good indicator of their parenting style. Mum cooks for sustenance, wants to get in and out, the job done quickly. My Dad wants to prance around in the kitchen, create a curry – and a mess – and entertain everyone. I hope I have taken the best of them in how I parent my own children [Musa, nine, Dawud, eight, and Maryam, five]. I like to think I’m the exciting parent, but I know I’m not. I’ll cook the dinner, and then Abdal will reheat it for the children with a guitar in the other hand, singing songs while he does it.My family feels like a team effort. When I was growing up, it seemed as if Mum was tied to the stove, cooking for six growing children. It is a big contrast with how we are now – we also spend all our time in the kitchen, but we are together. Someone will be doing homework, someone washing up, someone playing. It is the heart of our family – our natural habitat.The children are very grown up in their attitude and the way they behave. I like to remind them that they are only going to have one life. They need to make the most of it and have fun. I want to teach them to enjoy the chances they have in life.Nadiya’s Kitchen is out now, published by Penguin