Now You See Me 2 stars Jesse Eisenberg, Woody Harrelson, Lizzy Caplan and Dave Franco as world-class illusionists known as the Four Horsemen. But does the sequel deliver the magic for real-life experts? Four magicians give their verdicts.Will HoustounDr Will Houstoun, the Magic Circle’s close-up magician of the year, has a PhD in historic magic. He performs, teaches and have been consulted for TV and filmNow You See Me 2 was enjoyable as a light-hearted heist movie that doesn’t expect to be taken too seriously. Richard Wiseman once joked that the world of magic is like one big family – a really dysfunctional one – and something of that dysfunction is captured in the film. It also reflects the kindness that is found in the world of magic as [the film’s fictional act] the Horsemen find themselves lost in Macau but are welcome in the local magic shop. I’ve lost count of the number of times strangers have gone well out of their way to help for no reason other than a shared love of conjuring.One thing the film might have more fully explored is the passion magicians have for ingenious problem-solving. One can’t help wishing its writers had never heard of the idea of hypnosis. But the scene with a memory card demonstrates some real skill from all the actors, flicking a card around their bodies and from one person to another in astonishing ways.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest There was a massive amount of CGI, though I would say this is no bad thing. Magic doesn’t work particularly well in most mediated forms so if you want to see great magic then a live show is the answer. The fact that the magic in Now You See Me 2 is not real seems no more upsetting than the fact the Dory in Finding Nemo is not a real fish.There have been many wonderful female magicians so it was good to see a woman in a lead magical role. Having said that, it was a shame that her major characteristic was gender. I know several wonderful real-life female magicians, but the thing that makes them wonderful is the magic they do, not the fact they are female.There were numerous references to real historical tricks, such as the three-card street scam and the challenge escape. Any magic fan should also recognise references to effects and ideas from contemporary performers such as Dynamo and Derren Brown. There are also nods to groups such as Siro-A and a role for the genre of card flourishing, which has recently surged in popularity thanks to performers like Dan and Dave Buck or the Virts.At its core, Now You See Me 2 is about using magic for some purpose other than the simple performance of a trick. Did it remind me of my own experiences? There was that one time I was asked to use magic to help steal valuable information from a highly reclusive multi-millionaire...      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Our panel … Will Houstoun, Laura London, Sylar and Katherine Mills Photograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianLaura LondonLaura London has been a professional magician since 16 and is the UK’s only female sleight-of-hand artist. She will be making her Edinburgh fringe debut this year at the Voodoo RoomsYou should never spend more than you stand to gain when doing an illusion, and it’s fair to say that the movie’s stunts would bankrupt even David Copperfield. Stopping rain was impressive and perhaps possible, but not in the way the film depicts it.But Now You See Me 2 is a popcorn movie, it doesn’t need to be realistic, it just needs to be entertaining. And it certainly was. I didn’t think the actors were doing much in the way of tricks, they were playing the role of magicians, which they did very well. Every major movie is full of CGI for stunts and this is no different. The CGI looks great though, especially in the hide-the-card sequence.I appreciate the effort in making the female magician, Lula, a real part of the crew and not an assistant. Lizzy Caplan was genuinely funny and her character didn’t take any nonsense, she was very sure of herself. She had great lines. I loved it when she said she was going to kill the dove.The movie borrows heavily from Derren Brown – fans will recognise that Derren has performed versions of two key magic stints in his TV show. But they didn’t appear to be parodying any well-known performers, which is good. Did it remind me of any of my own experiences? I can’t reveal any details … but palming did save my life once.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Part of the crew … (from left) Dave Franco, Jesse Eisenberg, Lizzy Caplan and Henry Lloyd-Hughes in Now You See Me 2. Photograph: Jay Maidment/APSylarSylar is a psychological magician and actor, who performs at private parties and corporate eventsWhen the characters in Now You See Me 2 went into a magic shop, I was reminded of the first time I walked into one. Seeing some of the tricks on the shelves really brought me back to my beginner days. I enjoyed the film – it’s one of the best heist movies out there. The card-throwing scene was great though not doable in real life, I think.The cast and crew worked great together: good acting, directing and cinematography. But the script had some issues – I didn’t like the character Chase, who played the brother of Merritt (Woody Harrelson). In terms of its depiction of magicians, it’s dramatised, more glamorous. Even if we robbed banks in real life, it wouldn’t be as cool. Though one thing that rang true was the magicians’ egos, and the way they fought amongst themselves.Apparently a sequel is in the works – more magic in the next one, please!      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The egos rang true … Woody Harrelson. Photograph: Everett/Rex/ShutterstockKatherine MillsA magician and mentalist, . her show Katherine Mills: Mind Games airs on Watch. She also performs at corporate and private eventsI enjoyed this one more than the first film, it was more action-packed. It’s really great to see magic and magicians on the big screen. I think it increases intrigue and perhaps raises expectations.It highlighted the many different areas of magic such as escapology, cardistry, hypnosis etc, though the way that hypnosis was depicted was not accurate. If people could be hypnotised that easily, that would be pretty scary! I particularly enjoyed seeing Jack (Dave Franco) performing the Chase the Lady routine as this is a routine I perform myself. I loved seeing his take on it. I also liked the scene when they stole the stick card from the safe and tried to get it past security. Would it be possible to pull this off in real life? Not in the way that they did it, I’d say, but that’s one of the reasons it’s fun to go to the cinema – we can pretend.The film gives people an insight into the dedication and commitment it takes to be a magician: for many it’s a lifestyle choice as opposed to a job. It also reveals how magicians can work together to pull off a trick, which is definitely something we do.As for realism, I wish magicians could pull off what the magicians did in the film. I’m quite sure that if we could do what they did, most of us would not be working in entertainment. Now You See Me 2 is released in the UK on 4 July; out now in the US and Australia