Many years ago, someone pointed out that if Skins was a depiction of the adolescence you wanted, then The Inbetweeners was a depiction of the adolescence you actually had. In lieu of sex and drugs and glamour, there was just an endless void of boredom and frustration and embarrassingly crap cars.However, for a certain set of people, even this fell short of their reality. If you grew up in a small town or village, starved of any stimulus whatsoever, the threadbare thrills of The Inbetweeners would have seemed impossibly luxurious. But now, these people finally have their show. And that show is This Country.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   From the scarecrow competitions to the boredom, every last detail rings true … This Country. Photograph: BBC/Sophie MutevelianAnother BBC3 mockumentary, This Country follows the lives of cousins Kerry and Kurtan Mucklowe as they scratch around for something – anything – to do in their tiny Cotswolds village. Kerry wears a football top and, for a lack of anything better to pass the time, hangs around with children. Kurtan fixates on pointless tasks, like building scarecrows or wondering what happened to Fuse bars. It’s a comedy of desperation, but it’s also perfectly observed.Every last detail of This Country rings true in an especially horrifying way. The village contains a furious woman who swears at strangers. There are long reminiscences about kids who turned up at their school for a couple of terms and then disappeared. Groundless big-fish reputations are built out of nothing. Brief, empty non-encounters with screamingly minor celebrities are transformed into the stuff of legend. When you watch This Country, you sense that their village is a hermetically sealed entity; that no amount or graft or luck will ever allow you to escape.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   It’s a comedy of desperation, but it’s also perfectly observed. Photograph: BBC/Sophie MutevelianHappily, it is also extremely funny. During both of the first two episodes – about a scarecrow competition and a newly-qualified tattooist – I found myself rewinding entire scenes because I was too busy howling with laughter to hear what was going on. The peripheries of the village are populated by some incredibly true-to-life oddballs, like Kerry’s mother, who is only ever heard from another room, screaming in a piercing asphyxiated yelp. Or the vicar whose life is so empty that his enjoyment of Midsomer Murders counts for a huge slice of his personality. Or the needy friend who turns up unannounced and refuses to take any hints about leaving.There is the veneer of a serious point at the heart of This Country. That is that, while inner city disenfranchisement grabs a lot of headlines, the disenfranchisement of people growing up in rural surroundings is just as corrosive. It’s an adolescence of fear and boredom and loneliness. And, although everything that everyone in This Country does is rooted in those three things, the show itself doesn’t contain an ounce of nastiness. The characters are clearly drawn from a place of familiar affection. They’re an underclass, for sure, but they’re easy to like.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The characters are clearly drawn from a place of affection. They’re an underclass, for sure, but they’re easy to like. Photograph: BBC/Inez GordonThis Country seems like a necessary flipside to People Just Do Nothing. While that show rings true to many people who grew up in a city, This Country does the same for people like me, who did not. Growing up, I knew a version of every one of these characters, and as such this series connects with me in a way that barely any others could. What a terrific achievement.Hopefully the BBC knows what it has on its hands, since it’s already promoted This Country from BBC3 to a post-MOTD slot on BBC1. But even if it doesn’t achieve the success it deserves – although that would be a crying shame – at least This Country will go down in history as the show with the best ever joke about Computers for Schools vouchers. That’s not nothing.