Every holiday in adulthood is, to some extent, shaped by vacations taken in childhood – either to recapture memories of youth or to avoid doing so by any means possible.My parents’ rejection of hotels as a wasteful indulgence, inadequately recouped by the teabags and toiletries they made a point of pocketing, was pervasive enough to influence my own choices in adulthood. When I travelled, I slept on friends’ couches, at hostels, and elsewhere on the lower-cost end of the accommodation industry.The foodie traveller … in Little Asia: Darwin’s spiced-up street food vendors That is, until Airbnb came along and disrupted it.Just as Uber doesn’t feel like spending on taxis (another waste of money, according to my parents), Airbnb doesn’t feel like spending on hotels. That’s the appeal, of course – the “personal touch” of someone else’s home, at a slight remove from distasteful commerce. And a single room is often cheaper than a hotel.In the share economy, what do hotels – buildings full of beds for rent – have to offer cash-strapped millennials used to getting everything through an app? That was the question I set out to answer at Melbourne’s new QT Hotel.A boutique “experience hotel”, one of several across Australia, it opened on Russell Street in early September and is mere minutes from the Bourke Street Mall shopping precinct. It bills itself as an “eclectic mix of design and art ... style and luxury with a touch of quirk”.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The entrance to the QT hotel in Melbourne, where visitors are greeting by a ‘Director of Chaos’. Photograph: Jason Loucas/QT MelbourneOn paper it sounds a bit exhausting. But when I arrive with 7kg of carry-on luggage balanced on one hip, the attentive and friendly service at the check-in counter is, I admit, a welcome change from the usual three-minute cursory briefing from Airbnb hosts.And the “executive” room is stunning – all dark wood with brass and mustard-yellow accents, and an elaborate arrangement of rolling doors and mirrors squaring off the bathroom.Interview with a Bookstore: Melbourne's Readings, the best bookshop in the world I move the Sennheiser portable speaker to the side of the sizeable, free-standing bathtub and read gossip blogs on my phone as the peppermint shampoo tingles my scalp. Later, I see a full-size bottle retailing for $30 in Mecca Cosmetica and regret not grabbing handfuls of the sample sizes from the housekeeping cart when I passed it in the hallway.It’s one of the few items in the room not for sale – a price list is supplied with the emergency numbers and room-service menu, in case you want to replicate your stay at home, down to the mini kettle and coat hangers. But the real experience, as the QT wants you to imagine it, is outside the room – beginning outside the hotel.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The executive king at the QT hotel in Melbourne. Many items in the room are for sale. Photograph: Jason Loucas/QT MelbourneThe front door – my favourite design feature: huge, heavy and in bright azure and burnished gold – is manned by extroverted women wearing black-and-white stripes, dramatic makeup and pageboy caps. I am told they are the “Directors of Chaos”. Not being a big fan of chaos, I avoid eye contact on my way in and out of the hotel, giving me a shady air that only seems to make me more prominent on their radar. There’s already a throng by the elevator, of non-guests waiting to be granted access to the rooftop bar.That’s the thing about “experience hotels”, I find: they’re very keen to give you experiences. The QT feels like it has been designed with “talking points” in mind, with art or something like it on every available surface: the ceiling of the lobby, inside the elevator. My walk around with Laura, the QT’s business manager, is as much a gallery tour as anything else. She shows me her “favourite piece”, a painting on the seat of an armchair. “Someone’s put a cushion on it!” she says, somewhat indignantly. Someone appeared to have been sitting on it.I order a couple of drinks before dinner at the excellent Pascale Bar & Grill, a French bistro (with its own patisserie, too). I’m given the option of an original espresso martini, or a Pascale one – honestly, I can’t tell you the difference between the two, but it’s delicious and I appreciate being left to my own devices to read more of those gossip blogs.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A pastry chef hard at work at the Pascale Bar & Grill. Photograph: Jason LoucasThen I eat a delicious steak au poivre with a side of zucchini flowers and iceberg lettuce smothered in dressing. The table service is excellent – personable, but not at all overbearing.On the way back up to my room, I notice the restaurant is wallpapered in French maids in mildly titillating poses. (The Canberra QT is adorned with portraits of politicians, past and present – quite self-defeating if the aim of your stay is to forget you’re in Canberra.)QT bills itself as “not your ordinary hotel”, and that’s fair – it’s more of a theme park for adults, for art lovers, for those who love to eat and drink. But my room is a sanctuary, and not just in comparison to the “chaos” being directed outside. As I snuggle down in bed to watch a film, wearing a robe that I’ll hang back up for sale ($175) the next morning, my room feels like an indulgence worth paying for.It’s hard to imagine attaining the same relaxation in an Airbnb. Even if you rent an empty place, you can’t help but feel like a lodger in someone’s home.The “share economy”, after all, is as much about economy as it is sharing – you get an Uber because you need to get somewhere, not because you want a chat with a stranger. (I may be doing it wrong.) “You’re only staying with us for one night!” says the reception staff with apparently genuine regret as I check out the following morning.I’m as sorry about it as you are, I think.And with that I trundle off down the road, my hand luggage a couple hundred grams heavier for the toiletries, bound for a $44-a-night twin room in a hostel in Chinatown.Elle Hunt was a guest of QT Hotel in Melbourne 