Howard Hodgkin always used to suggest that his paintings – those life-loving explosions of impossible blues and hot pinks, violent oranges and triumphant greens – were products of an overflow of emotions.He famously spent a long time in his Bloomsbury studio looking and overpainting, waiting for the moment when the right feeling came in a rush and found its expression on the wooden boards on which he tended to paint. You didn’t have to spend long in his company to understand how dramatic those moments of creation might have been.I interviewed the artist a couple of times for this paper, and both encounters were memorable for the way they were punctuated by a sudden shift in mood, like a cloud passing over the sun. About halfway through each of them, the painter burst into tears.The first time we spoke, sitting for an hour or so in the garden outside Dulwich Picture Gallery, Hodgkin was approaching 70 and celebrating with an exhibition that saw his pictures hung among the Poussins and Watteaus. He was both excited and troubled by the prospect. The trigger for him crying was a question about whether he saw himself in a Romantic tradition, about whether his paintings, which inhabited specific named memories – Dinner in Palazzo Albrizzi; After Visiting David Hockney – were products of “emotion recollected in tranquillity”, like Wordsworth’s host of daffodils, say. He thought for a moment and suggested that for him the creative moment was rarely tranquil. It was more, he suggested, like Henry James’s idea of artistic longing: “Our doubt is our passion and our passion is our work. The rest is the madness of art.” It was the recollection of that latter phrase that set him sobbing.On the second occasion, nine years later, Hodgkin’s tears flowed after a discussion about the times when he had lost heart in his work. Though I was more prepared this time, sitting opposite him, the shift was still quite a shocking surprise. The painter went from quick, gossipy company to choking up like a child, before collecting himself and carrying on almost without comment.Describing it now perhaps makes this sound wilful or fake in some way, but it didn’t feel that way at the time. It seemed in fact to explain the sometimes uncanny affective power of Hodgkin’s paintings, the way in which their gestural language, which spilled over any framing, caught lost moments of charged experience. Hodgkin tried a few times as we spoke to describe in words how paint might convey memory, but the outbursts of emotion offered a different kind of explanation. He convinced you that painting was his fate; the thing he’d learned to live with.