From the soundtrack to the seating to the paper on which the tickets are printed, every element of a fashion show is orchestrated to send a message – and that includes the venue. Over the years at London fashion week, front rows have been constructed in deserted office buildings (Christopher Kane), nightclubs (Gareth Pugh) and abandoned tube stations (Anya Hindmarch), each acting in tandem with the collection. Official venues, meanwhile, have included an NCP car park, a former Eurostar station and tents in Chelsea. Here, the Guardian’s architecture critic decodes the meanings of some of the most popular, and weirdest, LFW venues.The venue: Westminster Abbey cloisters, Gucci, 2016      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Soulless? … A model walks the catwalk for Gucci in Westminster Abbey. Photograph: Getty ImagesThe meaning: Your show is on a par with the royal wedding“Selling our soul for a pair of trousers,” is how the Reverend Peter Owen-Jones described the use of Westminster Abbey’s hallowed 14th-century cloisters for Gucci’s catwalk show last year. As heels clattered over the stones beneath which revered kings, queens and poets lie buried, he denounced the event as part of a “Disneyfication” of the country’s sacred spaces. But for Gucci’s creative director Alessandro Michele, it was the perfect venue for his “love letter to England”, a collection awash with union jack jumpers, regal headscarves and lots of tartan. The gothic groin vaults added an unmatched gravitas, while models sashayed past “Britain’s oldest door”, one of the Abbey’s more curious features, once thought to be covered in human skin. Inspiration for the next collection, perhaps.The venue: City Hall, Preen, 2015      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Power dressing at Preen at City Hall. Photograph: Rex FeaturesThe meaning: You’re after a good selfie backdropAs a firm favourite of Michelle Obama and Samantha Cameron, no venue could be more appropriate for Preen to use than London’s seat of government. Affectionately known as the mayor’s bollock, Norman Foster’s glass-and-steel testicle provided the backdrop for a collection that was apparently “inspired by modern architecture and Michael Clarke’s ballet”. The building houses a grand spiralling walkway that corkscrews through the central glass atrium, intended to be a public route to allow citizens to see the workings of democracy, taking them up to a piazza at the summit, known as London’s living room. It has been closed to the public ever since the building opened, though – and Preen missed a trick not having models cascading down the spiral. That said, health and safety may have had a word beforehand.The venue: Former Eurostar terminal, Waterloo Station, Topshop Unique, 2010      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Channelling sophistication … Topshop Unique at the former Eurostar terminal. Photograph: Rex FeaturesThe meaning: Your brand is for true sophisticates who find beauty in the mundaneA defunct icon of high-tech architecture, the Waterloo International terminal opened to great fanfare in 1994, before losing its international status to St Pancras soon after. The fashion press pack wasn’t best pleased about having to clamber up stationary escalators to get to the platforms, only to be greeted by a rush-hour scrum, but the “Afrodelic” show didn’t disappoint. The location also proved to be nicely prescient: after 10 years of lying empty, the terminal is soon to be transformed into a shopping mall. Spooky.The venue: Freemasons’ Hall, Giles Deacon, Julien Macdonald, Hackett, 2006      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘That’s hot’ … Hackett at the Freemasons’ Hall. Composite: Alamy/GettyThe meaning: You appreciate a cultish handshake. And a big building.In a change from the usual Masonic fashions of risqué rolled-up trouser legs, lambskin aprons and fez hats, the lavish art deco venue in Covent Garden has hosted numerous shows. It makes sense for any label hoping to add a cultish mystique to their collection, with a level of opulence implied by the Grand Temple’s one-tonne bronze doors and elaborate ceiling mosaics of Prudence, Temperance, Fortitude and Justice – AKA fashion’s four virtues. It seems to go down well with the punters: as Masonic Quarterly reported excitedly, when Paris Hilton left Julien Macdonald’s show, “she climbed into her limo, rolled down the window and pointed to the building, smiled and drawled, ‘that’s hot.’” Membership applications to the Lodge no doubt spiked.The venue: Seven Sisters market, Martine Rose, 2017      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fragrant fashion … Martine Rose chose the Seven Sisters market for her show. Photograph: GETTY IMAGESThe meaning: You’re keen to keep things realFashion week schedules tend towards the centre of London, and any show taking place outside zone one is commercial suicide. But that didn’t deter Tottenham-based Martine Rose, who chose her local market as the down-to-earth venue for a menswear collection that riffed on the everyday uniforms of bus drivers, bankers, estate agents and office workers. Androgynous models with Human League haircuts wandered between the market stalls, as bemused butchers and gawping grocers looked on. Still, it made a refreshing change from shows held in the newly scrubbed-up Old Billingsgate fish market, and probably made things slightly more fragrant.The venue: Tate Modern Turbine Hall, Christopher Kane, 2014      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The art of fashion … Christopher Kane in Tate Modern. Photograph: GettyThe meaning: Your fashion is artPerformance art or high fashion? It is a question that was taxing visitors to Tate Modern, as they turned their gaze from Malevich’s floating rectangles towards the surreal scene of Christopher Kane’s spring/summer collection. Tate Britain regularly hosts shows, but Tate Modern sends a slightly different message. For the designer, who used the show to look back at his early work in a career retrospective, what better way to elevate your oeuvre to the status of modern art than show it here? It has clearly given Tate some ideas, too: this April, it is staging its own fashion show, in collaboration with the Museum of Homelessness, of clothes crafted from rubbish found on the streets. Some definite potential for Derelicte, here.