In February 2018 the Svalbard Global Seed Vault in the remote Norwegian Arctic will celebrate its 10th anniversary. Among the gifts it will receive are two collections of precious seeds and grains from the Australian Pastures Genebank and the Australian Grains Genebank, to be deposited into the vault as an insurance policy for an uncertain future.Between them, the Australian Pastures Genebank and the Australian Grains Genebank are a record of Australia’s agricultural past, a resource for its present, and an insurance policy for its future. “Our whole industry is predominantly based on improved species that have been introduced from overseas … and they are constantly at threat from pests and disease and climate change, drought, salinity,” says Steve Hughes, leader of the Australian Pastures Genebank. Gene banks give researchers access to a library of seed and germplasm from which they can source the traits they need to ensure the next generations of pasture and grain crops have the best chance of overcoming diseases, pests and arduous conditions. The collection is classified by latitude, longitude, altitude, disease tolerance, soil conditions, climate, pest resistance and productivity. Items borrowed are not returned: the only payment the library demands is information.“We don’t know what the future does have in place for us, which is why we have all this diversity which is hopefully going to be the key to future-proofing ourselves, or our agricultural industry,” Hughes says.Unlike the Svalbard Global Seed Vault, the Australian Pastures Genebank and Australian Grains Genebank are living resources, constantly in use by researchers as well as public institutions and private companies. Both facilities have been in operation for just over two years, but the state-based collections amalgamated in them go back more than a century.  We’ve got material here that will grow from the southern tip of Tassie right to the top end of Australia and beyondSally Norton, Australian Grains Genebank Managed by the South Australian Research and Development Institute at a facility in Adelaide, the Australian Pastures Genebank stores about 84,000 seed types across more than 2,000 species of pasture plants, including white clovers, lucerne and subterranean clovers. The value of the Australian Pastures Genebank to Australia’s agricultural future is reinforced by the fact it is supported by all five major research and development corporations, and all state governments.It’s a critical resource for maintaining and banking a broad genetic base, says Michael Beer, program manager for research and innovation at the Rural Industries Research and Development Corporation.“Certainly for pasture species, there is growing acknowledgement that the genetic material in one particular plant variety certainly may benefit another in future, so there’s beneficial traits that we may not yet have discovered that will be entirely useful for adaptive breeding in the future.”The Australian Grains Genebank contains any grain crop grown in Australia or around the world. This includes everything from winter cereals – such as wheat, barley, oats and rye – to tropical cereals such as sorghum, maize and millet. It also includes legumes (soybeans, mungbeans, cow peas), pulses and oilseeds. The facility in Horsham, Victoria, houses more than 150,000 different types of seed from more than 2,000 species.“I think we’re in the top five in terms of the level of diversity of different crops we’ve got,” says Dr Sally Norton, leader of the Australian Grains Genebank. “We’ve got material here that will grow from the southern tip of Tassie right to the top end of Australia and beyond.”The stored grains range from commercial varieties through to what are known as landrace varieties; traditional, local grains that may have been grown in a particular area for hundreds, even thousands of years, and are highly adapted to local conditions. The gene bank also includes wild relatives of known commercial crops, many of which are native to Australia.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sally Norton in the Australian Grains Genebank freezer. Photograph: Australian Grains Genebank“The whole purpose is to bring in new sources of genetic diversity so that they can recombine all of that and create a new variety suited to Australian conditions that’s got greater adaptability,” Norton says. Gene banks are constantly being added to with material from other banks or collected in the field. The international treaty for plant genetic resources for food and agriculture also mandates that any new variety developed using resources from a public gene bank must be added back to the gene bank for others to use. Commercial entities wishing to patent a new strain developed using these open-source materials – and therefore withhold it from public use – must instead contribute to an international fund that supports the development of gene banks and breeding programs in developing nations.Norton says the treaty aims to prevent the hoarding of a resource that underpins food security – not just in Australia but around the world.“Every gene bank is essentially doing the same thing; we’re trying to make sure that we’ve got material available around the world so that new varieties can be developed specific for whatever purpose in whatever country for whatever need,” she says. Chris Martin, chair of the pasture seeds program at Rural Industries Research and Development Corporation, gives examples of new commercial varieties of pasture crops released in Australia, including the salt-tolerant pasture legume messina, and the drought-tolerant perennial tedera that was first found on the Canary Islands. Both were developed under the auspices of the Future Farm Industries CRC.It’s a living database of material for an uncertain climate, Martin says. “They are the sources of all our future breeding; that’s where all our new products are going to come from.”