John JB Wilson traipses into his local library, looking to check out the latest Adam Sandler DVD. He is obliged to, for Wilson is something of an authority in matters of bad taste: in 1980, in a living room in Los Angeles, he founded the Golden Raspberry Awards. For 35 years, the annual ceremony has honored the worst in American film.This is a time of considerable strain for Wilson. The latest Razzie nominees are to be announced on Wednesday, the day before the Oscar nominations – and Wilson, in his capacity as what he calls “Head RAZZberry”, must bear the burden of watching as many as he can. The library is a new recourse. “You get the movies for a week, so you have seven days to slog through ’em,” the 61-year-old explains in his twangy, singsong voice. “And that way the people who made the movie don’t get any of your money. So it works for me!” He plays up a mock indignation, ever the movie martyr, but Wilson hardly rues the slog. He’s too fond of the jokes. “To this day I can’t make it through The Postman,” he reminisces to me without provocation, “that awful Kevin Costner movie about delivering the mail. Every time I get 20 minutes into it and I think, ‘No, you know, I really need to go and clean my fingernails!’” If the title of a bad movie comes up, Wilson is ready with a guffaw and a go-to jibe: “Talk about ridiculous!” or “talk about your unpleasant moviegoing experiences!” Of the talent behind such blunders, Wilson always says the same thing: “I don’t know what they were thinking.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Paul Blart: Mall Cop 2 makes its debut in New York. Photograph: Startraks Photo/Rex Shutterstock You probably have a good idea of this year’s Razzie shortlist already: Pixels, Jupiter Ascending, Paul Blart: Mall Cop 2 – critical and commercial flops. If the Razzies are predictable, it’s because they prefer simply to ratify popular impressions of failure rather than single them out for the first time. In fact, this ethos is built into the nomination process: the organization’s 895 voters – mainly “average moviegoers who pay an annual fee”, Wilson says, but also some critics, film-makers and members of the industry – are presented a list of candidates and asked to decide the most worthy among them. But the candidates aren’t the product of anyone’s personal distaste. They’re decided upon by repute. “We look at budgets and box office,” Wilson tells me. “We pay attention to user ratings at the IMDB. The main thing we look at is Rotten Tomatoes: if a movie has a score lower than 50%, it’s of interest to us. If it’s below 20%, it’s probably going to end up listed on the nomination ballot.” Of significance, too, is what Wilson calls “Razzie pedigree” – the award’s appetite for losing streaks. “Someone like an Adam Sandler, pretty much everything the man’s done for 15 years is Razzie eligible.” The Razzies embody a herd sentiment: they don’t honor bad movies so much as movies the public assumes are bad. The trouble, of course, is that this sort of automatic response is antithetical to real critical thought. Alice Stoehr, an American film critic, derides the Razzies as “an echo chamber of received wisdom” more interested in some vague aura of disaster than in weighing artistic merit. “The Razzies are totally out of touch with critical sentiment outside of a really broad idea of what’s liked or not. Their conclusions aren’t based on any consideration of what’s actually in these movies. It’s based on reputation.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michael Caine and Angie Dickinson in Dressed to Kill: worth a raspberry? Photograph: Allstar/Cinema 77/Sportsphoto LtdReputations in Hollywood are insidious and difficult to dispel, though over time they may be proven unwarranted or hasty. It’s perhaps unsurprising, then, that Razzie errors seem more egregious the further back in their history you look, beginning with year one. “In 1980, you have Dressed to Kill and The Shining nominated for awards,” says Peter Labuza, host of the film criticism podcast The Cinephiliacs. “Now we all know that those are the two of the best films not only of 1980 but of all time. So suddenly the received wisdom of the Razzies starts to look a little backwards.” We like to think of badness as somewhat self-evident. There’s nothing like time to show us that it isn’t. “People complain that the Oscars never get it right,” Labuza says. “What’s frustrating is that the Razzies can’t get it right either.” Greatness is elusive. Badness is too.Wilson, for his part, stands by his decisions – The Shining included. “There was almost no tension in that film,” he says. “Stanley Kubrick … he chickened out! He needed to be closer to what the book was. If you have zero respect for the source material, go do something else!” Nor, in Wilson’s mind, has Brian de Palma redeemed himself, after five Razzie nominations for worst director. “Oh my God, he was horrible!” he says. He tells me that he once saw some dailies from the set of Scarface and could tell the man had no talent. “The incompetence of it was astounding.”The Razzies have long enjoyed the power to certify a fiasco. A Razzie doesn’t merely follow but actively underwrites and validates a dismal reputation. The most familiar honorees in Razzie history are easy shorthand for a certain kind of bad film: Ishtar, Heaven’s Gate, Showgirls. Over budget, under-grossing, badly received studio epics helmed by obdurate, singular auteurs: ready fodder for ridicule, traditionally, though time has been kind to the legacies of those three pictures. Ishtar has been reclaimed and duly venerated; Heaven’s Gate is a recent inductee into the Criterion Collection; even Showgirls has at last been exalted.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Showgirls: a lost masterpiece? Photograph: SuppliedAdam Nayman is the author of It Doesn’t Suck: Showgirls, a slim study that aims to reconsider thoughtfully and seriously a long-dismissed film maudit. In November, he presented a special screening at the Key West film festival in Florida, where he was joined on stage by director Paul Verhoeven. It was 20 years ago now that Showgirls was released – and 20 years since Verhoeven deigned, with customary gall, to show up in person at the Razzies to accept the seven awards presented to his film. The moment ranks among the Razzies’ most notorious. “Verhoeven was thinking about Jesus the whole time,” Nayman tells me. “Turn the other cheek and accept with humility what’s happening to you. But he was aware that one of the nominees for the first ever Razzie for worst director was Stanley Kubrick. If it’s good enough for Kubrick, he thought, it’s good enough for me.” Verhoeven recalled to Nayman that from the beginning, he was facing down an unkind crowd – one keen to boo the director of a film they fervently hated. “They didn’t seem to appreciate how brave it was for him to go,” Nayman says. “But he went up time after time, smiling and waving the statuette. By the end, the crowd was entirely behind him.” “A Dutch journalist set that up,” Wilson remembers. “The point I made to his spokesperson was that if he was going to enjoy it, go for it. But if he’s going to show up and be angry and have his feelings hurt, that’s not what we want to do. But he totally embraced it. He won the public’s admiration. He moved beyond being a Razzie winner. He was a Razzie winner who embraced the joke.” As for the reappraisal of Showgirls … well, Wilson doesn’t quite believe me. “Seriously? Is anybody looking at Showgirls as anything but an excellent example of cow manure?” I tell him some insist it’s a masterpiece. “It’s a piece of something, I’ll give it that.” Wilson’s disdain for these films is not malicious: he’s too buoyant, too amiable a person. I suspect the problem has more to do with incuriosity. Wilson does not object to the characterization of the Razzies as a reflection of popular sentiment: indeed, that’s the object of the awards. “Opinion tends to side with our choices,” he tells me. “We are not in the wilderness with no one else agreeing with us.” That doesn’t seem like something to brag about. But to Wilson, it’s a sign of how agreeable and good-natured the Razzies are: they might mock, but they won’t rock the boat. There’s a presumed righteousness to it – a notion that the knocks are deserved. “It seems to me that if you make something like Paul Blart: Mall Cop 2, you should have a sense of humor,” Wilson laughs. “Take in your stride!” 