If there was a better birthday cake made in 1996, anywhere on earth, than the James Bond GoldenEye masterpiece I whipped up for my brother’s eighth birthday, I’d like to see it. Using only the tools available to me (off-brand mixed lollies, multiple colours of icing, a couple of store-bought sponge cakes), I managed to create a stunning tribute to the greatest “‘90s Bond” film that even included my brother’s face in the place of Pierce Brosnan’s. I only wish there were photographs.Somewhere along the line – somewhere between the “your first issue is only $9.95!” subscription cake decorating magazine I begged my parents to buy me when I was nine, and the day I learned to colour desiccated coconut in a Snap-Lock bag – I became the family’s designated birthday cake maestro.Dad was more of a pavlova man (whipped cream, fruit) and Mum favoured classic Country Women’s Association cake presentation techniques (whipped cream, crumbled Flake), so it fell to me to take the decoration reins. This was all done without a copy of the Women’s Weekly Children’s Birthday Cake Book ever setting foot (spine?) in our house. Not for us the dreaded “salty chip duck” cake; our birthday cakes were more of a freestyle affair.So, in retrospect, it’s surprising that I didn’t pursue competition cake decorating sooner, but it wasn’t until I first entered the Royal Melbourne Show’s Art Craft and Cookery contest in 2007 that I understood the true meaning of success. That was the year I took home a blue ribbon for my decorated cupcakes: vanilla sponge with a strawberry buttercream icing (spatula’d on, not piped), iridescent glitter and icing flowers.Though that blue ribbon, alongside my first jam blue ribbon the same year, ushered in a decade of competitive cookery, though from 2008 on I seemed to forget about cakes, and focused instead on jam and preserves. Perhaps the joy of that decorated cupcake win was enough to carry me through to this year, when I once again decided to tilt my hat at cake-related glory after the Art Craft and Cookery team announced they were reviving the “Rainbow Layer Cake Challenge”, a class not seen since mid-last-century.The competition schedule stated that no additional decoration would be permitted, only icing (white or colourful), and I knew it was time to revive my winning strawberry buttercream. That was about all I knew, because what I thought I knew about making a rainbow layer cake itself could fit in a teaspoon: I went to a cookery supply store and clutched blindly at a newfangled-looking cake tin with silicone bits (all the easier to pop the cake out, apparently), grabbed five gel food dyes (with which I could create the “minimum of five” coloured layers), and choofed home to get cracking.After a quick perusal online, I figured the bulk of the entries would be either rainbow cakes in the most literal sense, or colour gradients (beloved of Pinterest boards). I decided to combine the two concepts, and went for a “tropical sunset” colour palette, deep purple through to sunny yellow, in coconut tea cake.I probably don’t need to tell you that cooking six individual cake layers with only one cake tin and a mysterious rental oven is probably not the best way to go about these things; cooking the cake layers alone took me about eight hours. I trimmed the domes from each layer with a fancy cake-trimming wire tool, and only thought once or twice about whether you could garrotte someone with it. With a wrestling match to attend in between, I knew that I would be icing the cake at 11pm the night before intake at the Showgrounds. I threw on a crumb coat (a thin, smooth layer of icing designed to trap stray crumbs before applying the next layer), mummified the cake in Glad-Wrap, and slammed the fridge door.Four hours later, hoarse from screaming my way through a no-holds-barred tag-team match, I returned home to finish the icing. I settled on four colours – a truncated version of the layers’ gradient – and set about whipping the icing. (My housemate, diplomatically, turned her headphones up and shut her door.) After a disastrous attempt at a smooth finish, the sort I had seen on pastel-toned cookery blogs during my week of research, I decided to recreate my winning 2007 icing technique, spreading the icing into “petals” like a fancy trowel sweep on a 1960s house wall. At around 2:30am, I went to bed.Mum and I managed to deliver the cake to the Showgrounds the next morning without any major catastrophes, but as soon as my entry was scanned in, I was wracked with doubt: it’s too colourful, all the other entries have white icing, there are so many air bubbles in the sponge cake, I should have put it on a smaller cake board, what if they don’t like the flavours?Reader, I won.My cake was awarded a beautiful blue rosette, and I a bewilderingly fancy food processor, and I floated about a foot off the ground for a good week. According to the official judges’ comments, it was my “very good presentation” that landed my Technicolor-dream-cake in first place; when I finally got to see my cake cut open alongside the other entries, I laughed out loud at how aggressively colourful it was. My cake turned up in the Instagram feeds of people I didn’t know; people I did posed for portraits by it. Over the course of the Show I visited it five times.People have asked what the key to the “very good presentation” is, and in competition terms, it’s a combination of colour, icing, flavour, cake texture and neatness of the display. Honestly, though, I think it all boils down to the icing. So, with that in mind, let me welcome you into a world of icing pleasure with this indispensable buttercream recipe. As GoldenEye’s Borish Grishenko might say, it is invincible! (At least until next year’s Royal Melbourne Show.)Fluffy strawberry icingThis recipe is enough to ice a small cake with one or two layers. If you’re going for the whole six-layer rainbow spectacular, just double everything, but don’t change the steps (i.e add one tablespoon of milk at a time, not two). It will take a little longer but you’ll be glad of the end result.125g of butter (see note)1½ cups of Soft Icing Mixture2 tbs of milk2 tbs of pureed strawberries or a few drops strawberry flavouringA few drops of gel food dye (optional)Note: if you ask me, the secret to a really beautiful buttercream is to use unsalted butter; it has a lighter, “milkier” flavour, and seems to lose its yellow colour a little more readily during whipping. However, for chocolate or caramel flavoured icing, or when you’re icing a cake that’s already very sweet, salted butter can provide a nice contrast. In terms of actual whipped texture, however, the difference is immaterial.Leave the butter out at room temperature to soften up a little; you don’t want it melting, but too hard and it will just fly out of the mixer in chunks (trust me on this). Cut it into smaller cubes, and using a mixer with a whisk attachment – ordinary beaters are fine if you don’t have one – beat the butter for about 10 to 15 minutes until it looks like whipped cream. (Don’t worry if you don’t have a fancy MixMaster-type machine; I made my rainbow layer cake icing using a stick blender with a whisk attachment. It got very hot but did the job in the end.The most important part of buttercream icing science is combining the icing sugar completely; you don’t want any grittiness. For this reason, Soft Icing Mixture, which has a dash of added tapioca starch, will give you a smoother finish than pure icing sugar. Plain icing sugar is fine, but expect some tougher edges.Sift half the sugar into the bowl; if you’d like to avoid being covered in a fine layer of sugar dust as soon as you turn the mixer on, gently combine the whipped butter and sugar with a spatula first. Then, beat the mixture for two minutes or until well combined, add a tablespoon of milk, and beat for another two minutes. Repeat this process until all the sugar and milk is added and the icing is fluffy but firm (you should be able to form a peak on your spatula that stays put if you hold it upside down).I prefer to add the flavour and colour once all the other ingredients have been well combined. Strawberry puree will give the icing a really fresh flavour, as well as authentic colour and “seed distribution”, but I also have a lot of time for Queen’s new “Strawb’ry & Cream” flavour. It smells really strong in the bottle (not unlike the alcopops of distant memory) but if you use about a half a teaspoon, the end result is lovely and light. If you want to colour your icing, gel food dyes will combine more readily than ye olde four-colour droppers, and there is a much broader range of colours available. Give it another whiz once the colour and flavour is added, and you’re good to go. For a really primo result, make sure your cake is nice and cold (sit it in the fridge in Glad Wrap for a few hours), and do a crumb coat if you want a tidy, Pinterest finish. This icing will pipe well, but it’s hard to go past the classic “stucco” finish: pipe the icing on with a plain nozzle (a cut corner of a big Snap Lock bag will do), then use an offset spatula to smooth the icing into petal or fan shapes. This can look really great if you’re blending different colours of icing together.Finally, if you’ve finished all of this earlier than 2:30am, make yourself a cup of tea and bask in your handiwork.