The colourful dispute between Karl Lagerfeld and Meryl Streep over the actor’s Oscar gown belies a common practice of the movie award business for fashion houses to pay female actors to wear their creations, say stylists and agents.Over the past five years, it has become common practice for actors nominated in the best actress and best supporting actress categories to be paid between “$250,000 and $500,000” to wear a designer creation to the ceremony, says one veteran stylist. “That’s usually for a nominated actress, or sometimes just a very famous actress,” says the stylist, who was not authorized by clients to speak on the practice. “Not all actresses take money – we’re not talking about Cate Blanchett or Meryl Streep – but many actresses further down the acting scale.”The practice is not limited to the frock: jewellery, accessories, shoes, hair, make-up are often all auctioned. “It’s real estate,” says one hair and make-up agent. “Their bodies are billboards and they’re sold from head to toe.”The industry practice has become so commonplace that specialist agents now exist to broker the deals between celebrities and fashion houses, their agents and stylists. While many female actors are contracted to fashion brands – Natalie Portman to Dior, Michelle Williams to Louis Vuitton, Dakota Johnson to Gucci – paying female actors just to wear a certain brand on a certain night is considered money well spent, says the stylist. “If the actress is famous enough it guarantees a lot of press, so it is worth it.”Chanel’s creative director Lagerfeld created a furore by accusing the actor of rejecting a dress he was working on for her, claiming that a different designer was willing to pay her to wear one of their designs.“After we gift her a dress that’s €100,000 [$105,000], we found later we had to pay [for her to wear it]. We give them dresses, we make the dresses, but we don’t pay,” Lagerfeld said. As far as Lagerfeld and Chanel are concerned, the dress still has Streep’s name on it. “She could keep the dress because of the size,” Lagerfeld said. “It’s couture. It’s perfect for her.”Very disappointing, Lagerfeld continued, “A genius actress, but cheapness also, no?”Lagerfeld then backed away from his comments, saying he misunderstood that Streep may have chosen another designer due to remuneration, which Streep’s team has confirmed is not the case. “I regret this controversy and wish Ms Streep well with her 20th Academy Award nomination,” he said.On Saturday, Streep issued a statement to WWD: “In reference to Mr. Lagerfeld’s ‘statement’, there is no ‘controversy’: Karl Lagerfeld, a prominent designer, defamed me, my stylist and the illustrious designer whose dress I chose to wear, in an important industry publication.”The nominated actress continued: “I do not take this lightly, and Mr Lagerfeld’s generic ‘statement’ of regret for this ‘controversy’ was not an apology.”The role of celebrity stylists in Hollywood has become so established that fashion houses typically spend weeks courting the talent, presenting the frock, often only to be overlooked.The role of the stylist has become, in many cases, critical. Leading Hollywood stylist Kate Young told Business of Fashion last week that part of her job was convincing brands that actors were right for them.“Brands have an approved list. When I ask for clothes with a new client, I often get a quick no. That’s when I get on the phone or take them to lunch and say: ‘This is what I’m doing with her. This is my vision. You can trust me not to misuse the clothes.’ Sometimes it works right away, sometimes it never works.” The Hollywood Reporter now publishes a competitive ranking of the film industry’s most powerful fashion intermediaries. At the very least, but not always, they serve to ensure that actors do not swerve off into ill-advised or otherwise self-created created accidents in the costume department. The trade publication recently published an article looking back at memorable mis-fires, drawing attention to Melanie Griffiths’ outfit to the 1989 awards at which she was nominated for Working Girl. “You look at it and gag,” noted red-carpet critic and author of 100 Unforgettable Dresses Hal Rubenstein. 