Runtime ain’t nothing but a number, but it still has a big impact on how we think about cinema. We call anything under 30 minutes “short” and anything over an hour “feature-length” as though those terms weren’t fundamentally relative. We call two-hour films “Oscar hopefuls”, three-hour films “difficult”, and four-hour films “the new Quentin Tarantino movie”. We find comfort in these labels, and so we’re flummoxed by any film that exists outside their boundaries. Case in point: Jacques Rivette’s perennially confounding Out 1, scheduled for a long-overdue UK home video release this Monday.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest At 12 hours and 53 minutes, it’s one of the longest movies ever made, and almost certainly the longest ever commercially released in the UK. Since its completion in 1971, the film has taken on a near mythic status in arthouse circles, its final cut having gone entirely unseen until 1989, and having been screened on only a handful of occasions in the years since. Its reputation as one of the all-time greats of French cinema was no doubt stoked by this elusiveness, not to mention the screamingly romantic format of those screenings that did take place, during which a blissfully tatty print was screened alongside hand-synchronised English subtitles.Come Monday, this half-century of mystique will finally evaporate, revealing a frustrating, intermittently thrilling and undeniably singular viewing experience. It takes several hours for Out 1 to even introduce its characters, among them two rival theatre troupes staging Aeschylus adaptations, a mute street performer with a paranoid streak, and a possibly non-existent secret society inspired by a trilogy of Balzac novellas. Even then, there’s little indication of how these disparate entities might be connected.Every now and then, the film’s myriad narrative strands intersect in a fleeting moment of audience gratification, but for the most part they simply play out in real time, blisteringly evoking the quiet rhythms of human behaviour or prattling on for no reason whatsoever, depending on your perspective – and your tolerance for 30-minute unbroken shots of experimental theatre rehearsals.Divided into eight episodes, Out 1 has the form of television, though purists continue to classify it as a feature film. Now, in the hands of anyone with a Blu-ray player, the unwieldy project is ours to consume as we please. For all my best intentions, I wound up viewing the film in a manner akin to that of a security guard monitoring CCTV footage: watching time go by with no real concern for its passing, allowing the movie to play on during my frequent trips to the loo and kettle. In a culture obsessed with runtime, Out 1 seems to have no runtime at all. You’d be surprised how freeing that can be.