Singapore’s old people have never had it so good: now, there’s a robot to help them keep fit and healthy. RoboCoach, their new best friend, offers both encouragement and exercise tips. Its message is unambiguous: get your exercise routines wrong – skipping them no longer seems optional – and you put extra strain on the country’s overstretched public finances.As Singapore’s minister for communication and information put it, RoboCoach “is able to ensure that old people perform the exercise routines correctly so as to get maximum benefit from their workouts”. Free advice to Singaporean authorities: why not couple RoboCoach 2.0 with a fancy wristband like Pavlok, sending an electric shock every time its users slack off and deviate from established objectives?The Singaporean government sees robotics, sensors and algorithms as one of the technological solutions to the country’s demographic crisis. Hence numerous efforts to use technology to offer companionship, coaching and health diagnostics. As the founder of one such initiative – the eerily named Smart Homes and Intelligent Neighbours to Enable Seniors (ShineSeniors) – explained in a recent interview, there’s much to be learned from analysing older people’s toilet habits, sleep patterns and levels of social interaction.Singapore is not alone in using technology to deal with its ageing population. Earlier this year, Japan saw a new collaboration between IBM, Apple and Japan Post, whereby the country will use the technology from the two American firms to keep the old people entertained and analysed – remotely.Likewise, IBM’s Secure Living programme in Italy – its website promises nothing less than a new vision for “social security” – put sensors in the homes of participants, so that their environment and behaviour could be analysed and visualised on a dashboard in a remote central control room. China, too, has many similar projects in development: Roby Mini, the latest addition, is a robot companion for older people that can do voice and face recognition, tell jokes, order groceries, report the air quality and much more.While such efforts aim to make the lives of old people easier and more autonomous, some technology companies are also trying to make those lives longer. High-profile investors – including the heavyweight venture capitalist Peter Thiel – are happy to fund projects that seek to defend against ageing and, perhaps, death itself. Google has also launched its own anti-ageing group, pouring millions into health-boosting devices such as a smart lens to be used by diabetics and a wristband to track patients’ vital signs.But wouldn’t it be ironic if technology companies, keen to make our lives longer, also end up making them more miserable? After all, could spending your last years in the company of a seemingly funny robot – it has a joke for every occasion! – be as gratifying as technology companies claim? Or is the rhetoric of technology and innovation once again masking the inability – and, perhaps, the ultimate collapse – of socialised public institutions that were meant to deliver care of the more humane variety?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   RoboCoach works out with elderly Singaporeans. Photograph: Infocomm Development Authority of Singapore (IDA)IBM, for one, doesn’t ever hide that its solutions for old people’s care are a crisis measure designed to seem irresistible to cash-strapped communities. “Faced with a stagnant, 10-year budget forecast, restricted resources and the need to address healthcare and safety needs of a rapidly growing percentage of healthy citizens over the age of 70, city leaders got creative,” reads one of its marketing brochures.What’s at stake here is not so much the final outcome – ie whether old people get care or not. To frame the argument this way would be to stack the deck in favour of Silicon Valley: given enough sensors and data-processing capacity, these companies can and will provide any service – and on terms that beat most incumbent providers. However, when it comes to care, the process can be as important as the outcome, for many values that we hold dear – dignity, for example – are the properties of processes, not their outcomes.After all, plenty of unambiguously good social objectives – just think of security in our age of ubiquitous surveillance – can be accomplished in a most undignified manner. The fact that some good is done at the end should not prevent us from questioning the means by which we accomplish those objectives.Thus, while robots might one day make funnier jokes than their human caretakers, it’s clear that they do not in any reasonable way care about the patients they serve. And if they don’t really care, why call it “care” then? Why not call it a cost-efficient and trouble-free bulk management of the elderly, for this is what it really is?As IBM puts it in of its brochures, its new smart care is “on-demand” and “need-based”. Alas, once we let companies define what counts as “demand” and “need,” these two tend to get defined downwards. Would a desire for human companionship even be recognised as a need or merely written off as a quixotic, romantic quirk of the bygone era? With technology companies at the helm, our new corporate welfare state doesn’t treat citizens as customers – rather, we are seen solely as cost centres to be minimised. Unsurprisingly, our own spiritual needs and aspirations take a back seat to the imperatives of cost-cutting and efficiency-boosting.What happens, for example, if some old people choose not to follow the advice of a RoboCoach, preferring to spend their golden years with a book rather than a tennis racket, on a sofa rather than on an elliptical machine? With corporations running the show, any behaviour that might result in slightly higher anticipated costs – yes, this is how we are now evaluating the joys of reading – is to be strongly discouraged. Neoliberalism promised to make us all free – and yet today we can’t escape its clutches even in old age.Live forever: Scientists say they’ll extend life ‘well beyond 120’ And how do you even retire from an economy where financial value is produced simply by interacting with data-intensive technologies? Singapore’s penchant for active ageing is just a tacit acknowledgement of the fact that, in a fully neoliberal knowledge economy, old people never retire: surrounded by data-hungry technology companies, old people continue generating data, which, after some black magic on the global advertising markets, can be turned into gold.The new welfare state built by Silicon Valley is not built to advance the welfare of citizens – it’s built to freeride on the activities of citizens in order to advance the welfare of corporations. The citizens might, of course, get relatively useful services but those pale in comparison to the benefits harvested by technology companies, which, in addition to the lucrative procurement contracts with governments and cities, also get to rip the data generated by the users.The not so remote past, where old people could count on the company and humour of human caretakers – financed by their taxes – is to be completely forgotten. Instead, we are ushered into a thoroughly dystopian future, where corporations prolong our existence – it’s so lonely and alienated that it doesn’t really deserve to be called “life” – so that they harvest even more data from our interactions with their robotic interfaces. Or, as Silicon Valley puts it: “Ageing has been solved.”