It became an anthem for disco dancers, the gay liberation movement and anyone sobbing over a bottle of wine and nursing a broken heart.Now Gloria Gaynor’s evergreen hit I Will Survive has found its way into the hallowed halls of the Library of Congress in Washington, joining exhibits such as the Gutenberg Bible and Thomas Jefferson’s personal collection of books.The song is among 25 added to the national recording registry, which recognises sound recordings for their “cultural, artistic and/or historical significance to American society and the nation’s aural legacy”, the library announced on Wednesday.I Will Survive was created in 1978 by songwriting team Freddie Perren and Dino Fekaris after the latter lost his job and channeled the experience into a breakup song. For Gaynor, dubbed the original disco diva, it held added meaning because she was recovering from a serious spinal injury at the time. “I was actually at the mic in a back brace, believing the song would save my career – and it did,” she was quoted by the library as saying. Now 66, she did not attempt to play down the track’s historic significance. “I Will Survive is my mantra, the core of my God-given purpose,” she said. “It is my privilege and honour to use it to inspire people around the world of every nationality, race, creed, colour and age group to join me as I sing and live the words: I Will Survive.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Other selections on the list for posterity include two versions of Kurt Weill and Bertolt Brecht’s Mack the Knife, by Louis Armstrong and Bobby Darin, as well as Billy Joel’s single Piano Man, The Impressions’ People Get Ready, The Supremes’ Where Did Our Love Go and saxophonist John Coltrane’s A Love Supreme. Also selected was a performance of Mahler’s ninth symphony by the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra, recorded just two months before Germany invaded Austria in 1938. Thirteen of the orchestra’s Jewish musicians were fired, and some died in Jewish ghettos or concentration camps.Among the non-musical entrants are George Marshall’s 1947 speech outlining the Marshall Plan to restore Europe following the second world war, and two episodes from a radio show of the late 1940s, Destination Freedom. Richard Durham, an African American newspaper editor who wrote all 97 episodes in the series, artfully attacked racial prejudice through radio dramas.The selections for the 2015 registry bring the total number of recordings on the registry to 450, only a tiny fraction of the library’s vast recorded-sound collection of more than 3m items.