The risk paid off! 24 is back without Jack Bauer – and it's incredible Corey Hawkins says he was “scared shitless” to step into the blood-splattered shoes of Kiefer Sutherland in the 24 reboot, 24: Legacy. Not because the career choice was likely to involve simulated torture, given and received, as well as the punishing schedule of a Fox mega-franchise. But also because: JACK BAUER.“I was about 13 when 24 first came on and I just remember it being all we talked about when we came back into school the next day,” says Hawkins, who still idolises Bauer, the day-saving, clock-beating titan of the first TV golden age (the first of nine series of 24 starring Sutherland aired in 2001). “I’m so grateful to get the opportunity to carry the torch.”Sutherland is now a hands-off executive producer but Hawkins, 28, talked to the older actor before taking on the role of Eric Carter, an Army Ranger whose very busy day started unfolding on Fox UK on 15 February. “He was like the coolest dude ever,” he says. “It’s not easy to let somebody takes something like that and put their stamp on it.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 24 under Trump: why the hit show's use of torture is all-too-relevant Hawkins, whose mother, a police officer, raised him in Washington DC, knows what big shoes feel like; he played rapper and hip-hop producer Dr Dre in the Oscar-nominated 2015 NWA biopic Straight Outta Compton. “It was important for me to have Kiefer’s approval to do 24, and I wasn’t going to do Compton unless Dre said, ‘I want you to do it’,” he says. “And of course I was still scared, but that usually means you’ve got to take the risk.”The classically-trained actor is talking from LA after the premier of Kong: Skull Island, in which he plays a young geologist. Just two weeks after wrapping 24: Legacy, he’s now rehearsing for a Broadway revival of Six Degrees of Separation. Even so, he admits, “it’s hard to get 24 out of your system,” he says. “I’m there on stage and suddenly the adrenaline IS pumping and I’m waiting for someone to call the phone or say, ‘WE DON’T HAVE TIME!’ I’m trying to relax a little more.”Not so fast, Corey. You play his successor but just how Jack Bauer are you?Question 1. You are protecting the President but they’ve gone missing. Do you…a) Contact TMZ. They always know where everyone is.b) Conference call the Vice President who’s currently in Russia, even though you strongly suspect he’s been “turned”.c) Poison the entire secret service protection unit just in case and retire to your safe place (a secret bunker, 3000 metres below sea level).Corey’s answer: I think it might be the safe choice to maybe contact the Vice President and see… wait, what was the first one? TMZ? Ohmigod, that might be the best choice. I’m sure they know where the President is, more than the secret service does.Bauer-o-meter: two out of five.Question 2. Your teenage daughter disappears and all her social media accounts have been deleted. Do you…a) Tool up and go off grid in relentless pursuit, killing anyone who gets in your way.b) Exploit your position by directing the machinery of state to find her.c) Do nothing. She contributed very little and was really annoying on Instagram anyway.Corey: I don’t really use social media that much. I can’t go Liam Neeson on this one. Let’s go for C.Bauer-o-meter: three out of five.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Action man Jack Bauer (Kiefer Sutherland) in 24. Photograph: FoxQuestion 3. There’s a puma running loose in the Oval Office. Do you…a) Break its neck with your bare hands and get its head stuffed for the President as a trophy.b) Hand Steve Bannon a chair and a whip and tell him to deal with it.c) Watch patiently as the puma tears the President limb from limb (in the interests of national security).Corey: I think I’d be really interested to see what Steve Bannon does… let’s see what he does with that.Bauer-o-meter: four out of five.Question 4. Your colleague has turned up after being presumed dead for five years. Do you…a) Pen a heartfelt, open letter about your shock and surprise for Lena Dunham’s Lenny Letter.b) Meet them and check their gait, ability to focus their eyes and cadence of their sentences to check if they’ve been turned.c) Off her in a elaborate plot involving an Iraqi sniper, some nerve gas and plate of assorted cold meats. She’s already been compromised.Corey: These questions are atrocious, they really are! [PR interjects, passes on Corey’s behalf] Me too, actually. Pass!Bauer-o-meter: nought out of five.Question 5. You get intelligence that reveals that a terrorist has infiltrated the White House kitchen with plans to serve poisonous steaks. Do you…a) Go undercover and torture the chef in the walk-in freezer till he spills.b) Convince the chef that the President takes his steaks medium rare in the knowledge he won’t eat one (he reportedly likes them well done).c) Swap the dishes so that the Veep takes the hit.Corey: I guess I would go with option B, I’d go with B.Bauer-o-meter: three out of five.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Corey Hawkins as Eric Carter in 24: Legacy. Photograph: Mathieu Young/FOXThe verdictHow Jack Bauer is he? Cracking under tough questioning is a worrying sign for CTU’s newest recruit but we’ll give you the benefit of the doubt - Corey reveals a winning mix of the unhinged ruthlessness and strategic nous required to fill Bauer’s shoes. Have a great day.24: Legacy is on FOX, 9pm, Wednesday 29 March