While Everest is not the most technically difficult peak in the world, it remains the highest and climbing it is very serious with constant battles against altitude, freezing temperatures, sudden storms and falling ice.Hearing the tragic news of four people dying on the mountain this weekend does not come with much surprise. The sheer number of people allowed on to the mountain has brought another unexpected and perhaps even more dangerous hazard – large crowds. The fact that so many climbers, lots of them wealthy beginners, have managed to reach the top in recent years means that every May several hundred inspired people will try for the summit in one of the weather windows, resulting in dangerous bottlenecks packed with climbers.This relative increase in accessibility has given rise to many now familiar questions, being asked once again after last weekend's deaths; has the mountain become too accessible? Should there be more stringent assessments of clientele? Should the sherpas – who fix ladders, make tea and carry oxygen for the western tourist-climbers – continue to endanger their lives? Perhaps one solution would be to make the charges so high that only a handful of people could afford it? Or ban the use of artificial oxygen, fixed ropes and sherpa support, leaving Everest to a handful of the world's elite mountaineers? But cutting numbers, as well as being elitist, would reduce the income that flows into Nepal, one of the poorest countries in the world. Also, many of the guides working on the mountain are superb, highly skilled professionals simply earning a living.I was lucky enough to work on the neighbouring 8,013m high Shishapangma mountain with Babu Chiri, one of the world's most renowned sherpas. I know that most of the money he earned was invested in schools in the Khumbu valley where his family lived. Who would want to deny that? The risks are very real for sherpas though; Babu himself later fell into a crevasse in the Western Cwm of Everest and died.I believe that whatever the mountain, there are essential rules of survival, things I have gleamed from 25 years of climbing and leading expeditions on some of the most difficult and dangerous mountains in the world. I understand what it is like to be driven to reach a summit and I too have made mistakes. Hindsight is a wonderful thing. It may sound simple, but perhaps adherence to these fundamental mountaineering rules might reduce accidents:First, good mountaineers go boldly on to the mountains, not blindly. By this I mean that, though courageous, they have robust and clearly thought through strategies.Second, good mountaineers understand that things constantly change – you ignore this at your peril. Understanding the complexities of conditions on the mountain and changes to you and your team members is often subtle but critical. Remaining focused on the goal is important, of course, but humility and remaining adaptable will help you survive.Third, staying alive is more important than reaching the summit.I have a couple of friends hoping to summit the peak on Friday. Keith Patridge has not attempted the peak before and is filming Kenton Cool in his quest to carry up an Olympic medal to the summit. A member of the highly regarded British Mountain Guides, Kenton is hoping to reach the summit for the tenth time. I can't think of a better partner to be with on the world's highest peak and he will know the rules of the game intuitively. In fact, he has purposely delayed his attempt by a week to avoid the crowds witnessed last weekend. My thoughts will be with everyone this weekend, hoping for a safe passage, with or without the summit experience.• Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree