I think pop music has given up on me. Well, more accurately, I’ve given up on pop music. Try as I might to keep up with what’s happening on musty old terrestrial radio or what’s racking up views on YouTube, I’d rather listen to something that came out before I started growing hair in my ears. In short, I’m old and can’t be bothered to be cool anymore. I’m too busy trying to pay my mortgage and keep my dog from chewing up my wife’s bras to really engage with pop music in any meaningful way.Musical.ly, the craze turning pop fans into stars That’s why Musical.ly, a new lip-synching app which often features stars like Ariana Grande, has me so perplexed. Part of the thrill seems to be mouthing along to Sia or Twenty-one Pilots while riding a bicycle through a snowstorm, then uploading a video of the whole sordid affair so people can give you feedback on your ability to not sing. It’s hugely popular with teenagers and preteens (AKA children), with the majority of the app’s 100 million users falling into that demographic. They’re all over the app, too, with some becoming stars in their own right. It’s all harmless, unless you watch 10 of them in a row and start to feel as though you’ve stumbled onto the world’s worst slumber party. I tested the app out for a day and I only intermittently had a sensation resembling fun. Fair warning: I’m 32 and performed most of my public acts of extreme embarrassment in the confines of my home, occasionally while eating.It’s simple to record and upload a video. There’s a yellow button in the bottom row of the screen that takes you to a menu in which you can choose to pick a song, shoot the video first and add music later, or upload a pre-recorded video from your library. My first thought was to secretly film my neighbors bending over to pick up stray leaves from their yard, then add the Curb Your Enthusiasm theme and upload my masterpiece, but I have to break the bad news that the Curb theme is not available. Had it allowed me to secretly troll my fellow citizens with impunity, I would have rated it five stars. Part of the thrill seems to be mouthing along to Sia or Twenty-one Pilots while riding a bicycle through a snowstorm The first song I chose to lip-synch was Closer by the Chainsmokers, featuring Halsey. I’ve never heard this song in my life and you can see I mouthed along quite poorly. The best I could come up with for flair was bobbing my head ever so slightly and making sure Sky News was on in the background.I’m getting random words of support from accounts that seem very clearly to be bots designed to encourage you to keep using Musical.ly, lest you realize your rubbish lip-synching is a terrible waste of time. “Pure Track Star,” says xohayle.88. “Beautiful tunes,” says lex.e_f1. Yungnoe66 tells me that my work is “top quality”. I was happy to believe these were real fans until xuanpham53 said a video of me weeping for humanity to the strains of Do the Bartman by Bart Simpson was “incredibly good”. Sorry, I buried the lede here, didn’t I? Yes, Do the Bartman is available. What a stroke of luck.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Musical.ly Youth: the Chainsmokers. Photograph: Martin Rickett/PAIn order to get real fans to tell me I’m incredibly good, I needed props to really make my Musical.ly videos engaging. The only props I have in my house are delicious pita chips, which I slammed while mouthing along to Broccoli by D.R.A.M. and Lil Yachty, a song I not only know, but love. Look, I’m 32, not 82. While I thought this was my finest work yet, I received no likes and one lousy comment: magconbri2053 said “top” with a heart next to it. How impersonal.In order to salvage my self-esteem, I uploaded the video to Instagram, which Musical.ly allows you to do after you’ve posted, which is one of the ways in which the app has grown in popularity. The ability to share your work across multiple platforms, while each video sports an unobtrusive watermark, is valuable free advertising.I thought I’d go on a field trip and record in the bathroom for my next track. I chose another song I’d never listened to in my life: I Took a Pill in Ibiza by Mike Posner. Even a mere 10 seconds of this song makes me want to set fire to the recording studio it was created in, or better yet, go back in time and prevent humanity from inventing musical instruments. In the clip, I have to avoid catching a reflection of my bald spot in the bathroom mirror. This is not for me. Even a mere 10 seconds of this song makes me want to set fire to the recording studio it was creating in I have heard Heathens by Twenty-one Pilots, since I saw the movie Suicide Squad, which features the song in its soundtrack. I decided to do this lying down on my couch, making love to the camera. The final product looks more like the last known photo of a washed-up NBA player. I promise myself I’ll do better next time. I’m going to choose a song I know the lyrics to: Angels by Robbie Williams.Robbie Williams: Heavy Entertainment Show review – a lurching mess of styles My God, it finally all came together. My enthusiasm for the music, an angelic beam of light gracefully teasing my face as I spun around in my desk chair, and my ability to actually keep up with the lyrics. My only regret is that I didn’t get to belt out the chorus. The library of Robbie Williams tracks is far from comprehensive, but after wading through music people like sincerely, it was nice to find something a bit shit to sink my teeth into.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It’s the same reason why people love karaoke, besides that you can get drunk and make an ass of yourself in public. Songs that are corny, ironic, dated, simplistic, or just plain bad are some of the best karaoke songs to perform. Sure, a Beyoncé track like Single Ladies might get the party started, but what keeps it going is the guy that digs up You’re the Best Around from the Karate Kid soundtrack and busts out a high kick during the chorus that splits his pants at the crotch.Yes, Musical.ly has You’re the Best Around. It also has the Ghostbusters theme, dialogue from The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy, and a dubiously named comedy category featuring such appalling dreck as a young woman reading Kanye West quotes in a baby voice. This is what will keep me coming back long after the only hair I have left on my head is the stuff in my ears. Such curiosities and abject horrors are universal, no matter what age you are. Deep down, we all want to embarrass ourselves – a sadomasochistic impulse that fuels the aforementioned karaoke bars, the drunken late-night tweet, video apps like Musical.ly and the dearly departed Vine, and Anthony Weiner. Life’s too dull to go through it being respectable, I suppose. Thanks to the modern miracle of the smartphone, we can shame ourselves with the push of a button.