You’re not enjoying this season of The Walking Dead. You can’t be. It’s physically impossible, because it’s the most thankless six episodes of television I can recall seeing. And I can remember Eldorado.Viewers know how The Walking Dead works by now: it starts big, percolates, stalls until you start to tire, then builds, and finally explodes, and soon all is forgiven. This is the formula that, over six years, has turned a humble genre show about mulched zombie craniums into something my – and possibly your – mum watches.But this feels different. It’s not that it is miserable now (always was). Or dull (often that too). It’s that it’s both – both, a million times over; both, to the extent that it makes you strongly consider going down to the bottom of the garden for a cry in the weeds. It can be dull, or miserable, but not both – and definitely not for this long.Previous seasons had long stretches of frowning and little in the way of action, yet relationships were always twisting, growing, fraying. You knew this was solely to maximise the agony of them being torn to shreds, but still. It was enough to keep you invested. Even at its worst, The Walking Dead was a compelling character study.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   In the infamous premiere, some miserable and incredibly violent things happened, slowly and miserably. Photograph: Gene Page/AMC/APThis year? Things began with the infamous premiere, in which some miserable and incredibly violent things happened, slowly and miserably. Then came an equally slow if refreshingly jovial episode about Carol eating some chocolate and meeting a man with a tiger. Then the one in which Daryl was subjected to assorted discomforts by Dwight – which impressively managed to pack 10 minutes of plot into a meritless 45. Next, a feature-lengther in which nothing of note happened: Rick sweated. Michonne skulked. Carl continued to ecstatically need a haircut. Negan said mean things in that funny way he does, then went home. Last week’s instalment, the soporific nadir if you like, was set at the Hilltop colony. Carl and Enid roller-skated, Maggie and Sasha hid in a cupboard – but not the cupboard you thought! – and there was actually an extended scene in which three characters prayed near some bread.   Since then, nothing has happened apart from Carol meeting a man with a tiger. Photograph: FoxAnd what of this week? Well, someone peered at a fish, something about a bridge with sand zombies on it, some talk of the Saviours being bad, Tara made a friend, Eugene cried. Fin. Which part was meant to be entertaining? Which part of any of these episodes, in fact? I did my tax return during one of them, to break the tedium. A large portion of the blame goes to Negan, who is simply not captivating enough as a villain; his brutality never sufficiently established to acceptably counterpoint his faux-chipper “hot-diggity-dog”isms. Yes, he did cave in a couple of heads, but who hasn’t? It’s the apocalypse.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Hot diggity dog’ … sure, Negan has caved in a couple of heads, but who hasn’t? It’s the apocalypse. Photograph: Gene Page/AMCRemember Terminus? They slaughtered people and ate them! That’s far worse. Negan is just a bully. Yet conversely, whenever he isn’t on screen, nothing happens. Daryl and Rick are mute. Carol’s with that tiger. Who else is there? I can’t even remember. I don’t care. The ratings for this season have taken a huge hit, now at their lowest since the third series, so audiences are clearly tiring. This isn’t a slow-build. This is an endurance test – and it’s no fun at all.When you’ve stuck with something for six years, it’s hard to give it up, particularly as you know what’s going on: yes, it’s working up to something. Yes, the mid-season finale will doubtless be spectacular. But is it worth it? Six episodes of misery for a few seconds of release? There comes a point when you have to stop. For me, as far as The Walking Dead goes, this is that point. It has one more chance.If the next episode isn’t the most thrilling hour of television ever televised, that’s it. I don’t care how much I once loved it. It’s dumped. Damn you, Walking Dead, for letting it come to this.