To the Mediterranean, where suspicions that David Hasselhoff is an ocean-going novelty act are confirmed more literally than ever before. On 4 November next year, the first official David Hasselhoff fan cruise will leave harbour in Italy, and fans will be able to embark on a six-day tour of wonderment (and various incidental European ports) with the legendary Knight Rider and Baywatch star.Yes, for just €599 (£513), Hasselhoff completists will be all at sea with their hero/ironic hero. “DAVID IS ON BOARD WITH YOU FOR THE DURATION OF THE CRUISE,” thunders the official blurb. He will not be able to leave, and nor will you. Turn your thoughts from David’s Knight Rider car, Knight Industries Two Thousand (Kitt). Instead, all aboard a craft that we will call Knight Industries Land Lubbers Mustn’t Enter Nightmare On Water (KillMeNow). Although I see the tour company is still calling the vessel the Costa Favolosa.Otherwise, it is unclear whether the promoter has taken inspiration from specific research into malarial fever dreams, or if it is all just a lucky guess. German cruise firm GEO Reisen has certainly laid on a full buffet of Hasselhoff-related events on which to binge while eyeing the lifeboats. There is a David concert, a get-together with David, an autograph session and “David in Person” – an evening with David “in the large theatre”. This latter event will involve David screening “the  best scenes of his movies” (yes, yes – I know), and will furthermore give fans “the chance to ask personal questions”. But only within reason, I hope.Or as the man himself puts it: “Thanks to my fans around the world I can look back on an exceptional career in showbusiness and there is much more to come! It is high time to give back the gratitude and fun that you bring me every day … I will be on board throughout the journey and cannot wait to spend unforgettable days with you!”These days, you may be aware, celebrity cruises are big business. The Backstreet Boys do them annually – a Walking Dead one earlier this year was so popular that it is coming back for a second bite in 2017. It sounds only slightly less terrifying than the fan of two brothers who host a US property show, who boarded their dedicated cruise with one case packed entirely with presents for them. Even The Hoff’s cruise isn’t his first maritime adventure – he can be found this very November serving as the “ship’s captain” for an on-board music festival in Malaysia.At time of writing, tickets had only just gone on sale for the formal Hasselhoff fantasy voyage, which boasts 1,500 cabins. “That’s quite a small ship,” remarks a friend who knows. And yet, in this context, it may even turn out to be distinctly roomy.As for the mystery further events at which the cruise company hints, I would hope that The Hoff would put in at least one shift as the lifeguard for the main pool. Not that any disaster could possibly befall you on board. “Like a fairytale castle, the Costa Favolosa is surrounded by an enchantment,” runs one intriguing claim by GEO Reisen, “which gives the ship a special charm.”Of course, there is no suggestion that this powerful protective hex extends beyond the ship’s confines. Consequently, I keep picturing some bad stuff going down on shore leave, prompting Michael to peg it back to port screaming “Kitt, I need you buddy!”, only for the ship to dutifully handbrake to a halt in front of him, then steam out of the harbour before the irate panto promoter/bartender catches up with him.As far as Hasselhoff’s motivation for the voyage goes, we can only speculate. Once, AUTO CRUISE was the button David pressed when he needed to make out on Kitt’s back seat with a young lady whose father was in some kind of trouble with some kind of people. Now, perhaps, he hits CRUISE when he is in trouble with court-mandated spousal support payments to his ex-wife, Pamela Bach. Back in May, disclosed documents in which he petitioned to be absolved of those responsibilities found the Hoff explaining that: “My future employability is uncertain.” He went on: “Over the past several years, my income stream has been volatile at best.”Still, it’s not all bad: by way of full financial disclosure, he added that he spends $5,704 (£4,323) a month on “entertainment, gifts and vacation”, $1,766 on gardening, and $533 on petcare, among a very long list of various other eye-catching expenses. There was $600 in his current account at the time.So the ocean calls to the Baywatch star, as it so often seems to do. Indeed, he is not only to make a cameo in the forthcoming Baywatch movie starring The Rock, but his most recent non-theatrical-release movie work was in Sharknado 4. That said, I am given to understand that picture has nothing to do with the sea at all, centring instead on the phenomenon of sharks raining down from a cyclone in Kansas. There seems little to add, other than to hope at least one character looks up at the weather and observes: “I don’t think we’re in Oz any more.”