It sounds more like a day spa than an office: a mile of walking trails, a cafeteria serving locally grown food, views of nature from almost every room in the building – including the stairwells – and a wood-paneled lobby designed to absorb excess sound.Welcome to French manufacturing giant Saint-Gobain’s North American headquarters. Since moving into the Malvern, Pennsylvania building in October last year, Saint-Gobain has kept notes on the effect of these features on its employees, and compared it to its previous office seven miles down the road.The company says it has seen a 97% increase in the average weekly number of potential customers between January 2015 and August 2016, compared to the same period the previous year. Saint-Gobain says its employees have also reported feeling more energetic since moving into the new building. Some 38% are now members of the onsite fitness center.Does a pretty office make a productive workforce? Even the implication that a greener, smarter work environment could impact the company’s performance is proof enough that the changes are worthwhile, said Carmen Ferrigno, vice president of communications at Saint-Gobain. The Saint-Gobain office is featured in a new report from the World Green Building Council, a global network of national green building councils, which looks at how sustainably designed buildings can boost productivity and health in the workplace.The report, released Tuesday, examines how the green features of 15 buildings around the world are helping businesses save money and improve staff morale. Take Swedish construction and development company Skanska, which was able to cut sick days by two-thirds after it rebuilt its office in Doncaster, UK, improving indoor air quality, cutting down on noise levels and installing a central light well that increased the natural daylight in the building. The company was able to save £28,000 ($34,209) in staff costs in 2015, and employee satisfaction grew from 58% to 78%.“The results are clear – putting both health and wellbeing, and the environment, at the heart of buildings is a no brainer for businesses’ employees and their bottom line,” said Terri Wills, CEO of the World Green Building Council.The report lays out a number of factors that the authors say create a healthier office environment and can help boost a company’s earnings: good ventilation, natural sunlight, low noise levels, windows with views outside and a flexible work area that allows employees to be more mobile within the office.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The office campus includes over a mile of walking trails for employees. Photograph: Jeffrey TotaroAccording to the report, when combined, these factors have an impact on the way people work. For instance, distracting sounds in the office, such as a computer or printer beeping, and loud conversations, can negatively affect a person’s mood and make it difficult for them to concentrate, causing stress. Meanwhile, too much carbon dioxide in an office has been shown to impair decision making and make employees feel tired. Exposure to sunlight also makes a difference: a 2013 study from Northwestern University found that employees that worked in offices with windows slept an average of 46 more minutes a night compared to workers in windowless offices. That’s because sunlight helps to regulate the body’s circadian rhythms, which tells our bodies when to sleep, eat and wake up.Saint-Gobain’s 277,000 square-foot office took nearly two years to complete, and cost $80m. There were a few reasons for the move, said Ferrigno. For one, the firm wanted a space that showcased the building technologies from its family of companies and allowed its research teams to measure the impact of these products on a real workplace. The building currently uses eight of the company’s products on its exterior and 32 in its interior, including SageGlass on the windows, which helps control how much sunlight enters the building.The company has also committed to reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions by 75% at its buildings, excluding warehouse and production facilities, by 2040, so that goal added further impetus to refurbish.“We knew we needed to reinvent space to foster a greater sense of collaboration and connect people from different disciplines,” Ferrigno said. “Do we just move into a nice place, or as a leader in building materials, do you try to invent the best space possible so the medium becomes the message?”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Saint-Gobain’s employees even got to road test office chairs: before the move, the company asked people to vote on which designs they liked best. Photograph: Jeffrey TotaroThe company also surveyed its employees about what they would like to see in the new office space. Employees even got to road test office chairs: before the move, Saint-Gobain set up various chairs and pods and asked employees to vote on which designs they liked best. Employees also said they were nervous about an open-plan office, so Saint-Gobain asked the architects to triple the number of conference rooms and other private, casual work areas.“At first, they didn’t know what to do with them,” Ferrigno said. “They’re just now loosening up and realizing that a lot of their work doesn’t have to happen staring at a screen.”This kind of employee engagement is known to boost productivity: a 2012 Gallup meta-analysis of 1.4 million employees found that companies with a high level of engagement reported 21% higher productivity.Healthy buildings: why workers are demanding sustainable offices According to Ferrigno, the open-plan office works because the acoustics are kept under control. For example, a person can have a conversation at their desk without worrying their neighbor might be eavesdropping. The building’s classrooms and training centers are also designed to allow sound to roll across the room, so people in the back can hear just as well as those in front. Small holes in the ceiling reflect sound throughout, while wall panels absorb sound to minimize any echo. The building also has sensors that pull out carbon dioxide when levels get high.That said, not everything has gone to plan. The building’s air conditioning system turned out to be too efficient, making it too hot or cold inside the office too quickly. According to the new report, employee productivity drops by 4% when an office is too cold, and by 6% when it’s too hot. And some Saint-Gobain are still getting used to the open-plan layout. “Some of them are thrown by it and feel too exposed,” said Ferrigno.On the whole, however, the new office has made employees at Saint-Gobain’s other locations a little jealous.According to Ferrigno, the company is now looking to borrow features from the Pennsylvania office to upgrade some of its other buildings, including a new tower at its Paris headquarters.