As excitement over Spectre reaches fever-pitch, the last written works of the real-life M have been discovered in a filing cabinet. They too contain a haunting, terrible truth, not about a sinister organisation but the depredations of industry on the world of nature.The observations contained in a newly-discovered and unpublished manuscript, The Frightened Face of Nature, are the work of one of MI5’s most intriguing and talented employees, Major Charles Henry Maxwell Knight, generally considered to be the original for Ian Fleming’s M. Knight’s life as a second world war spycatcher saw him inter alia penetrate British fascist movements, foil a plot to stop the Americans from entering the war and debilitate Britain’s burgeoning “fifth column” Nazi sympathisers.Catching spies the natural way | Patrick Barkham To any herpetologist who was alive in the 1950s or 1960s the name Maxwell Knight will need no introduction. For all others: he was founder member of the British Herpetological Society, author of numerous natural history titles (including How to Keep a Gorilla) and a popular BBC broadcaster appearing on Nature Parliament, Country Questions and The Naturalist. Herpetology (the study of reptiles and amphibians) was his specialty, and he skilfully conveyed his advice and knowledge in his books and broadcasts.It is the contrast between his life as a spycatcher and early environmentalist that intrigues. He lived two very separate, but equally influential, lives . His MI5 work reached the ears of Winston Churchill during the second world war, whilst later in life he had the respect of his naturalist peers, which included the professional zoo community and wildlife charities in addition to being given a platform by the BBC to broadcast to the nation.His filing cabinet was left in the safekeeping of Professor John E. Cooper, who in his youth knew Knight very well. Their friendship was strong enough for him to consider Knight as his mentor, and they remained good friends until Knight’s death in 1968.Professor Cooper went on to become a leading veterinary pathologist and attests that Knight fell in love with nature as a child. Cooper and his wife only ever knew Knight as a naturalist, yet he has come to realise that Knight’s spyrunner and natural historian sides were never far away in any of the roles Knight assumed. For example, Knight’s 1968 book: Be a Nature Detective was to young field naturalists what Rudyard Kipling’s Kim was to scouts and would-be spies.The Frightened Face of Nature reflects on the first fifty years of the 20th century and Knight pulls no punches in predicting how the century would end if man’s advances continued unchecked. The manuscript might have gone undiscovered for another fifty years had Cooper not offered me the opportunity to study the filing cabinet’s contents. Upon taking delivery of the filing cabinet, the Professor and his wife informed me that the drawers would need to be forced open, as they had seized on their rollers. Then they slipped away into the darkness, leaving me alone with M’s treasure trove.Initially, I couldn’t bring myself to break and enter the cabinet. I put down the rather large crowbar I’d decided earlier was up to the job. It was. I wasn’t.I eventually reassured myself that M would approve of my clandestine activity, and I could imagine hearing Bernard Lee (James Bond’s fictional M) saying: “Come on, man – we haven’t got all day!”I pondered how many cabinets and safes Knight had forced during his career. I’d also read about his penchant for keeping reptiles and tarantulas, so I wasn’t quite sure what would greet me. I decided to wear gloves. A short while later, the cabinet’s four drawers were open … no snakes, no tarantulas and no MI5 “Top Secret” documents (well, none that I will admit to seeing ...).What was in the cabinet, however, was a lifetime of natural world exploration from the man they called M.The first chapter I pieced together was chapter four, entitled “Goodbye to Wildlife?”“Does such a question as that heading this chapter stem from the neurotic imaginings of a fanatic, or is it one that can reasonably be put forward at the present (1964) time? It is always said that no person can truly see himself as he truly is to others, so one must be careful when producing an idea which might lead to the conclusion that no one in his right senses could even begin to think of anything so terrible and fantastic as the virtual disappearance of living things from the face of the earth or the ocean deeps.However, take a deep breath, count up to ten or even twenty, and then consider some of the facts – not fantasies – which face every human being today.” Knight goes on to say that destruction of habitat forces three courses of action for plants and animals: adaptation to a new type of habitat, migration to an area sufficiently like the original, or face extinction. He goes on to complete the chapter with a chilling reminder: “As regards extinction, it cannot be emphasised too often that once a species has become extinct nothing, nothing can bring it back.”After reading The Frightened Face of Nature, it struck me that Knight’s publishers were perhaps afraid to publish the manuscript, given that it is at times controversial. Or did they (mistakenly) feel these were the musings of an amateur naturalist? One thing is incontrovertible: Knight’s predictions for nature’s depletion are very much on the agendas of all wildlife charities today. The awful spectre of invertebrate decline looms over the world, and nature’s antagonist isn’t a secret organisation, Nazi Germany or Communist Russia, but something far more deadly: man’s overconsumption of the planet’s resources.Earth has lost half of its wildlife in the past 40 years, says WWF In just forty years between 1970 and 2010 the global Living Planet Index (LPI), which which measures trends in thousands of vertebrate species, has declined by 52%. The ZSL and World Wildlife Fund’s LPI report states that: “Habitat loss and degradation, and exploitation through hunting and fishing (intentionally for food or sport, or accidentally, for example as by-catch) are the primary causes of decline.”Knight’s hope was that the progress “at any cost” approach would change, and that industrialised nations would stop playing the short-term nature-unfriendly game of habitat destruction so often carried out in the name of progress. A subsequent chapter of Frightened Face of Nature is entitled The Age of Science, and the following extract sums up his thoughts:“By all means let man use his great powers to invent new devices; let him give of his best to see that all shall benefit from his genius in curing, healing, and housing those in want. But do not suggest that this can only be done by destroying what is fine to look at or listen to, whether in the arts or nature.If human brains can find means of defying space, improving means of communication and bouncing pictures off satellites, surely he can also discover ways in which these things can be done without destruction – for destruction first is the cry of mad revolution and is the reverse of evolution.” It is easy to brush off the spectre that haunted Knight sufficiently to have him pen the unpublished 50,000 word manuscript. After all, his observations are some fifty years old. However, I think this manuscript is a wake-up call which illustrates that we’ve been on this destructive course for many years. Sadly, allowing for the present trend, it seems we will continue to allow wildlife populations to halve every fifty years as long as there are at least two vertebrates to count.Did Knight combine his life as a spycatcher and early naturalist? Yes. Observation in the field was a recurring theme in Knight’s books and radio broadcasts; the opening paragraph of an article found inside the cabinet entitled Friend or Foe, originally written for The Field Magazine in the 1960s - could indeed be voiced over the opening titles of a spy thriller:“Many people think that animals of all kinds can be neatly put into groups and labelled Friend, or Foe; or Harmless, or Harmful. Unfortunately nature does not work like this, and there are very few creatures in this country that can be described as wholly beneficial or equally destructive … This business of friends and foes in nature is a complicated one, but the way to approach it is to learn all we can about the habits of these animals before we decide whether they are guilty or not guilty.”Given Knight’s diverse career, it is striking that of all the things he could have written about and locked away in a cabinet he chose to pour out his fears for the planet and man’s inhumanity, not to man, but to nature. Perhaps we are finally ready to hear what he was trying to tell us.For those keen to follow in M’s footsteps, Maxwell Knight’s book collection is curated at The Natural History Museum and was established by Professor John E. Cooper who still visits the library regularly and contributes generously to the collection.