Stella Gordon isn’t even her name. The protagonist of this book is Stella Gordon and her life is a lie. It wasn’t always a lie but now it is. She has been moved for security issue from Philadelphia to Thunder Basin in Nebraska.She is forced to move her entire world with a fake identity since she is a witness in a murder. The man she is standing up to is bad news. Even under police custody he has a lot of people to do the job for him that is: end her. Reluctantly she has to agree to let police help her but that means going undercover for a whole summer before she can testify against this man.Stella regrets every moment of her life she blames everyone and everything that is responsible for her parting away from her friends and boyfriend. However, as she starts her life in Nebraska she feels attached to Chet, a local 19 year old. They befriend each other very fast. It was as if she forgot about all her struggles, however, life isn’t that simple for Stella. Soon she finds herself trapped in her own lies. She has been lying to everyone including herself. How does this end for Stella Gordon? Will she survive her lies or will they consume her?This book, Dangerous Lies falls under the crime and thriller genre. It is a stand-alone novel and it’s the first book I ever read by Becca Fitzpatrick. This book is filled with plot twists and cliff-hangers. Every chapter ending tempts you to continue reading just another chapter due to the suspense. And at the end of that chapter there is another cliff-hanger which doesn’t let you stop. The interest and plot is maintained throughout the book without a doubt.Every character portrayed in this book has a detailed backstory. Everyone has dirty secrets which affects their present and probably future. It tells us that our secrets are what make us different from other people and it also shapes our character. How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? Somewhere in the book I felt like the author tried to tell us that it is okay to keep secrets. I think that was the point of the book, the difference between secrets and lies. Secrets can be harmless but lies always cause damage. Overall, it was a very entertaining read and I enjoyed it a lot.Rating: 4.2/5Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read?Join the site and send us your review!