On 25 May 1976, an exhibition opened at the Museum of Modern Art in New York that blew apart American photography. Curated by long-term director John Szarkowski, it contained around 75 prints by an artist in his mid-30s based in Memphis, Tennessee, self-taught and barely known outside the in-crowd. His name was William Eggleston.Unseen William Eggleston portraits to appear in London exhibition The reaction was immediate, and incandescent. The Village Voice claimed that “some sort of con had been worked”; the New York Times diagnosed “a case, if not of the blind leading the blind, at least the banal leading the banal”. Eggleston’s affectless, snapshot-like scenes of worn-out plantations and suburban driveways – southern life at its most blandly nondescript – were partly responsible. But what most riled the reviewers was that he had dared to print these images in colour. Colour, as everyone knew, was vulgar, garish, trashy. The New York Times later dubbed the exhibition “the most hated show of the year”.With impeccable timing, 40 years on, Eggleston returns with another major retrospective at another major museum, the National Portrait Gallery – a sign, perhaps, that Eggleston is now part of the establishment. Colour photography is mainstream; mobile phones and social media have made snapshots the most natural visual language of all. Once reviled, Eggleston himself is now revered, and correspondingly expensive – prints now sell for £350,000-plus.Yet to encounter his photographs is still to revel in their strange wonder, their droll and sphinx-like resistance to interpretation. Critics falter when they try to place him: a reworker of the Duchampian readymade? A chronicler of southern gothic? Eggleston, forgivably wary of those who presume to pin down his work, prefers to let the pictures do the talking. And what they say remains peculiar enough.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eggleston’s Untitled, 1969–70, the artist’s uncle, Ayden Schuyler senior, with Jasper Staples, in Cassidy Bayou, Summer, Mississippi. Photograph: ©Eggleston Artistic TrustBorn in Memphis in 1939, he was brought up in pampered gentility on the family cotton farm in Mississippi (even before his prints began to sell, money was never a problem). A quiet child fond of music, he was sent to toughen up at boarding school and detested it, later drifting through a series of educational establishments while neglecting to acquire a degree. One thing he did work hard on was his reputation as a hellraiser, in the most impeccable southern mode. One legend has him driving in search of late-night whiskey, ramming his Cadillac through locked steel gates with Bach’s Mass in B Minor blaring from the stereo. Only when he came across a copy of Henri Cartier-Bresson’s famous book The Decisive Moment, some time around 1960, did he realise that he could take photography as seriously as having fun.For most viewers, Cartier-Bresson’s genius is compositional, residing in his matchless ability to seize crystalline form from the fast-moving muddle of the everyday. Eggleston, however, was more fascinated by the sophisticated tonal properties of the photographs in The Decisive Moment: their interlocking play of light and shade, the way even the darkest shadows contained reservoirs of meaning. When he discovered Kodachrome film in 1967, Eggleston sensed that colour might do something similar for him, and went to work with his Leica and Canon rangefinders. He turned up later outside Szarkowski’s office at MoMA with a suitcase full of prints and slides.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eggleston’s Untitled, 1974, Karen Chatham, left, with the artist’s cousin Lesa Aldridge, in Memphis, Tennessee. Photograph: © Eggleston Artistic TrustThe infamous exhibition was not the first time that colour photographs had been shown at the museum. But unlike earlier colourists such as Ernst Haas and Saul Leiter, Eggleston’s images make little attempt to seduce the viewer. An image of someone’s front room is a study in wan light and dun soft furnishings, all ochres and olives and avocados, with a jigsaw puzzle lying unfinished on the table and the photographer’s own leg intruding.Red is a recurrent theme. A dentist from Greenwood, Mississippi, stands naked in a room spattered with graffiti and splashed with bilious vermilion light. A skewed image of the same dentist’s ceiling – perhaps Eggleston’s most famous image – has at its centre a light bulb fitting, with tendrils of white electrical wire snaking away towards the walls. It takes a few seconds to register the pornographic poster bottom right, but the gut-wrenching menace of the shot hits immediately (to call it a “shot” is not accidental: the photographer has a thing for antique firearms, and has talked approvingly of this image’s resemblance to wet blood).So-called “dye-transfer” printing, which Eggleston discovered in the early 70s and permitted far greater colour intensity, allowed him to ramp up the melodrama. A 1984 series of photographs taken inside Graceland is printed with searing saturation. Elvis’s chocolate-fur-covered sofa, canary yellow scatter cushions, caramel-coloured pelmets: all are rendered with the morbid eye and lurid flashgun of a crime scene photographer moonlighting for an interiors magazine. In one, a portrait of the young Elvis pouts out from a mirror, the King of kitsch surveying his knock-off Versailles. It is like being trapped inside the funeral parlour from hell.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eggleston’s Greenwood, Mississippi, 1973. Photograph: © Eggleston Artistic TrustGiven Eggleston’s skill at making dead objects come to surreal life, devoting an exhibition to his portraiture seems like an act of perversity. People are comparatively rare in his work, even as the wrack and detritus they leave behind looms large. His friend, the novelist Eudora Welty – an arrestingly direct picture of whom is included in the new show – wrote perceptively about the atmosphere of abandonment that attends many of his images, their sense that human drama has just departed the frame. But, she also reminds us, “they always let us know that the human being is the reason they were made”. And, just as matronly Cadillacs and exhausted scrubland mark out the terrain we might call Egglestonland, so his pictures of people could surely be captured by no other photographer.The well-known portraits are of women, or more accurately of their hair and clothes: the lacquered beehives and tailored dresses that were the uniform of 1960s suburban America. Eggleston finds in the faces of these women both armoured toughness and raw vulnerability. His photographs of men are sadder still. Often shunning the lens as if unaware of or embarrassed by it, the figures are freighted with desolation. One late-middle-aged man slumps on the corner of a hotel bed, the severe geometry and institutional decor of the room giving it the atmosphere of a jail cell. A double portrait of the artist’s uncle and his driver is justifiably famous: the uncle’s sleek black business suit contrasts tellingly with the white uniform of his African American employee, who stands deferentially a few feet behind him. It is a study in colour in every sense.Sometimes Eggleston’s camera is more directly involved, indeed unsettlingly so – an image of girlfriend Leigh Haizlip in tears hints that it (or he) is responsible for making her feel that way. But most often there is a sense of emotional detachment or estrangement. It is troublingly unclear whether the photographer knows the person well or has just strolled past them on the sidewalk. Eggleston has said how he prefers to “creep up” on his subjects, treating them almost as a piece of street furniture. Asked whether he photographed a human in the same way as he photographed a parking lot, the artist replied: “I think so, absolutely.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eggleston’s Untitled, 1974, Biloxi, Mississippi. Photograph: © Eggleston Artistic TrustWhat Eggleston aims to achieve with this large and expanding body of work – there are rumours of 1.5m negatives – is the most tantalising mystery about him. Though rooted in place (the overwhelming majority of his images are captured in Memphis or the flatlands towards the Mississippi Delta), they are too fragmented to map a certifiable location. Eggleston has repeatedly denied that he is interested in politics, and has disavowed being part of a southern artistic school. And although his pictures are documentary – as all photography is documentarian – they have the aura of a world half-invented, or imagined. Called on for his explanation, he once said: “I think of them as parts of a novel I’m doing.”Perhaps the astonishing thing is that, now in his late 70s, Eggleston is still working, and remains capable of producing images that startle. An exhibition shown concurrently in London and New York in 2010 was revelatory, showing his eye for colour to be as subtle and ghoulish as ever. One image, shot inside (of all things) a freezer in a Kentucky store, gives us a nightmarish winterscape of bruise-coloured ice. Another was surprisingly tender, even beautiful: the inside of a window spattered with fake snow, with a Santa sticker ascending into a powder-blue sky above a sign advertising donuts. Other photographers would have made this material a satire on the crassness of Americana; Eggleston renders it into a saintly transfiguration. The novel he’s writing has a few pages left to run.• William Eggleston: Portraits is at the National Portrait Gallery, London WC2, 21 July to 23 October. npg.org.uk.