Every year, members of the Hardy Plant Society embark on an epic project: parcelling up thousands of packets of seeds to be shared among other members and the general public.The HPS seed distribution scheme has been going since the 1960s, and encourages members from across the globe to send in their seeds saved from garden-worthy hardy perennials. Last year the Society parcelled up 40,000 packets.I am involved in the packing part of the operation, and coordinate the Southern Counties group, who, alongside the Kent and Lincoln groups of the HPS, pack the seeds that flood in during the autumn. Filling thousands of glassine envelopes with a teaspoon over two days is a challenge, but there’s a level of concentration sufficient to take your mind off anything else that’s going on in your life.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Filling thousands of glassine envelopes with a teaspoon over two days is a challenge ...’ Photograph: Kent Group of the Hardy Plant SocietySometimes we work over two days, depending on how much seed arrives. In 2013 we packed 2,742 packets in one day and 3,158 on another day. We sit, packing, at tables of three, four or five so it’s quite social; all of us who do it find it relaxing. We can be presented with the weird, the wonderful and the ordinary. Seeds are so different from one another, so varying techniques need to be employed in the packing process. Some like grasses are fluffy and a pinch works; others such as peony are so big they are easy to count individually and put into an envelope. Some seeds are met with a groan because they are difficult to handle.When the glassine envelopes are packed, we store them in a cool place or a refrigerator. It’s hugely important that all seeds are labelled properly. At the end of the process I make sure to sweep the carpet properly so that fallen seed doesn’t germinate there!Like other members of the Hardy Plant Society, I look forward to the publication of the seed list on the website during November. I have been growing from seed since we moved to our house in 1975. We were short of money then, having moved from the North to the South with my husband’s job and so, coming from a frugal Yorkshire household, with a mother who was definitely of the make do and mend sort, ( I was born during the second world war,) doing things on the cheap was not new to me. I grew much from seed and cuttings in those early days and the habit has never left me.Tips for collecting seedPick a healthy and vigorous plant to collect from.Don’t collect too soon - immature seeds will not germinate.Collect on a dry day. Look for seedpods which have changed colour from green to brown.Cut or pick the seedheads and lay them out to dry somewhere warm.If the pods aren’t fully open, then wait until they have dried, then gently crush the pods or capsules to release the seeds.Some seedheads explode - they need to be checked every day. You can place them in a brown paper bag and wait for them to explode, or shake them.Once the seed is free, make sure you clean off the chaff to prevent the seeds from rotting.Tips for storing seedMost seed can be kept to sow in the spring - hellebores are an exception and prefer to be sowed immediately.Use paper packets (or spent envelopes) and label them correctly. Keep them in an airtight plastic container with silica gel to absorb excess moisture.It’s good to store seeds at 5C as they can remain viable for long periods if refrigerated. 