It’s easy to become numbed to the housing crisis, to the endless stories of councils in bed with developers, local authorities flogging off land to the private sector, of communities relentlessly trampled as luxury towers rise around them; easy to forget that “units” are people’s homes and that “community” is not something easily won, but the product of relationships forged over generations. And that both can be brutally ripped apart. Never would you imagine that 'like for like' meant a smaller flat, and you would only own half of it A new BBC documentary, The Estate We’re In, brings this home in harrowing detail as it follows the regeneration of one London housing estate over the course of a year. “Never in the history of social housing has so much been taken from so many by so few,” growls Jasmin Parsons, who emerges as the hero of the piece, rallying her neighbours on the West Hendon Estate in Barnet to fight against the council’s plans to bulldoze their homes.The narrative is painfully familiar. It begins with a plan to demolish an ailing 1960s estate and replace it withnew homes at a much greater density with the help of a private development partner, Barratt. The ambition is to rehouse all residents in “like for like” new homes, with a load of private flats sold to help pay for it all. Except that, after months of putting up with construction dust and noise, the residents don’t quite get what they were promised.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Like for like? Joe, left, must sell the home in West Hendon that he bought via right to buy; Katrina, right, has lived on the estate all her life, but cannot stay. Photograph: Fran Robertson/BBC/Two Step Films“You would assume ‘like for like’ to mean a maisonette for a maisonette,” says one leaseholder on the estate, who lived in a light-flooded two-storey home with spectacular views across the neighbouring park and reservoir. “Never would you imagine that it was going to be a flat, that it would actually be smaller, and that you would only own half of it.”Compulsory purchase order notices drop through the residents’ doors, valuing their existing flats at a fraction of what the new ones will cost – meaning they are forced to either accept a portion of a new shared ownership unit, or else move out of London altogether. Some of the social tenants, meanwhile, are rehoused in a new block called Bullfinch House (which they nickname Bullshit House). “Before, I would leave my door open and see people all the time,” says one elderly resident, in tears, sitting alone on her sofa in her brand new flat. “Now I don’t see a soul.”Barratt declined to take part in filming, so the documentary is frustratingly one-sided. At one point it is mentioned that a large part of the estate was sold to the developer for just £3, but there is little explanation of the development agreement, nor how viability assessments were used to squeeze down the level of affordable housing. Red-faced Tory council leader Richard Cornelius is cast as the villain – “Toad of Toad Hall” as Parsons calls him – left spluttering that “there’s no public money to spend on housing, and this is a way of getting things done”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘A way of getting things done’ … New buildings take shape at West Hendon, alongside old ones that will eventually be demolished.But, just a few miles east, stands a brand new social housing block that has been built by Camden council without a private developer in sight. Marching along the edge of a railway line in Gospel Oak, with the strong vertical rhythm of a traditional terrace of London townhouses, the first phase of the Bacton Estate redevelopment stands as something of a miracle in a climate when new-build council housing has seemed impossible for so long. This is the first such housing built in the borough in almost 30 years.“When the council said they wanted to ‘regenerate’ our estate, we never imagined we’d get anything like this,” says new resident Sarah, who recently moved into a four-storey house with four bedrooms, two living rooms, big windows and a roof terrace. Standing on her roof deck, you get a good view of one of the last great social housing programmes in the country. Across the train tracks stands a collection of mid-rise modernist blocks by some of the best architects of the 1960s and 70s – the likes of Powell & Moya, Neave Brown and Benson & Forsythe – engaged by Camden’s borough architect, Sydney Cook, in an era that saw the problem of urban housing tackled with unparalleled energy and ingenuity.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Another way … New flats at the Bacton Estate, in Camden borough, being built with its new Community Investment Programme. Photograph: Laura CobbThe current climate, with local authorities stripped of housing grants, might not allow anything remotely approaching this scale, but through canny cross-subsidies, Camden is giving it a go. The Bacton Estate is the first result of its Community Investment Programme, a plan to build 3,000 new homes, half of which will be affordable, using the sale of private market units to pay for new social housing – crucially without any of the value leaking into the pockets of a private developer.The first phase has seen around 50 new social-rented units, a mixture of four-bed townhouses and two-bed maisonettes, cleverly interlocked in a handsome brick block. Walking outside her front door, which leads on to a new children’s play area, Sarah explains the scheme like an architect showing off their latest creation: “We’ve got five different kinds of brick, from the yellowish London stock, to match the buildings across the road, to a greyish colour that picks up on the stone of the nearby church, to more brownish shades matching other neighbouring estates.” Her knowledge and enthusiasm shouldn’t come as a surprise: as chair of the tenants’ association, she’s been working on it with her neighbours for the last six years in a process that the word “consultation” doesn’t begin to describe. There were fun-days, barbecues, children’s conjurors and – most crucially – training sessions for residents to be able to understand architectural plans, and get their heads around the complex planning process. There were even trips to a Belgian factory to choose the bricks. Many London boroughs have been quietly getting on with it, building up some dynamic in-house development teams “We basically went to the tenants and said ‘let us bulldoze your homes’,” says Labour council leader Sarah Hayward, “which is quite a big thing to ask someone. We’re asking our residents to take a leap of faith with us, so it’s crucial they understand exactly what the choices are and how they can have an input.”The new building – and the wider estate masterplan for almost 300 homes, currently under construction – is the work of Karakusevic Carson Architects, go-to designers for many London boroughs with ambitions to build. They are now working on several thousand council-led homes across the capital. Thatcher took away councils’ right to build but since the last Labour government passed legislation allowing local authorities to build again, momentum has been gathering on such schemes. “Many London boroughs have been quietly getting on with it over the last few years,” says Paul Karakusevic, “building up some incredibly dynamic in-house development teams with big ambitions.” By doing it for themselves, rather than relying on private development partners, he says the boroughs can achieve more for their money. “You’re immediately cutting out the developer’s 20% profit margin, so you have an extra 20% invested in social capital rather than shareholder capital. And any value uplift is retained in the long term.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Value uplift … Inside one of the new Bacton homes by Karakusevic Carson Architects. Photograph: Tim CrockerCroydon has set up its own development company, Brick by Brick, with a target of starting construction on 9,500 homes by 2018. Newham council has established Red Door Ventures to build 3,000 homes for market rent, with profits invested into affordable housing. Its first scheme, designed by Richard Rogers, was completed last year. Islington has 2,000 affordable homes in the pipeline, Hackney 2,500 coming forward. Having had their housing hands tied for so long, local authorities are pressing forward.A wholesale power grab: how the UK government is handing housing over to private developers But this momentum is now perilously threatened by the Housing and Planning Bill. “It cannot be stressed enough what a catastrophic result the bill would have for social housing and council-led development,” says Hayward. “The extension of right to buy, for example, would mean that we’d be forced to sell the new homes we’ve just built whenever they become vacant. It would entirely collapse our building programme.” As Karakusevic puts it: “It would be madness for the government to cut off a vital part of the housing supply chain, just when it’s got going.”The provision of homes that are genuinely affordable to all Londoners now hangs in the balance. “You sold us a dream,” Jasmin Parsons roars at one council meeting, “which was a nightmare!” So which will the city end up with? Will it be a future of public-spirited, generously sized housing, with value retained in public hands in perpetuity, or one of meanly scaled hutches, squeezed down by the market and sold off to the highest bidder? The Estate We’re In will be broadcast on BBC One on 15 March at 10.45pm