Any reader of comic books knows that the power of origin stories is their ability to explain the spiritual struggle of the hero. The stories are so powerful, and the commercial potential so assured, that recycling them every time a new media platform pops up is irresistible – even if they can be dull.So too in country music where the how, when and why of an artist’s background is somehow just as essential as the music itself. The quest for authenticity in country music is as old as a mountain ballad, but it wasn’t until Loretta Lynn published her autobiography in 1976 that the origin story became the brand itself. She is a coalminer’s daughter, born into poverty in Butcher Holler, Kentucky. She was dispatched into the world as a child bride. She found her voice as a mother and wife whose domestic troubles inspired a catalog of songs that cleverly, and with strength, dosed country music with feminist principles that opened the doors for generations of women. Loretta Lynn: Full Circle review – a fine set of new songs and old favourites The smile in her voice contrasted with the anguish in her lyrics, and her lasting influence is deepening the well where songwriters can reach for material to affirm country music’s appeal to common people. The songs, the Oscar-winning 1980 movie, the Grammy awards, the dude ranch and campground in Hurricane Mills, Tennessee, the presidential medal of freedom, and now a recent PBS documentary and new album, all circle back to that story, one that is now an archetype for both resilience and musical ingenuity. Full Circle (Sony Legacy), released this month, was co-produced by John Carter Cash, Johnny’s son and former musical director, and Patsy Lynn Russell, Lynn’s daughter. The familial surrounding is probably why none of the tropes used in similar veteran comebacks are here – Sorry, Snoop Dogg, no duet for you. Instead, Cash and Russell curate a list of songs tailored as a linear travelogue through the Lynn story. These are rerecordings of former hits (Everybody Wants To Go To Heaven, Fist City) and new recordings of folk songs from her mountain childhood (Black Jack David, I Will Never Marry), new selections and also standards (Band of Gold, Always On My Mind). In the liner notes, Cash writes that the sessions produced 100 songs and that this is the first of many volumes to come.The music is rooted in Lynn’s story. The first song she wrote while a teenage bride and exiled along the Washington coast is here, a waltz, in which a young woman sits alone by the water and hears it whispering to her news that a former lover has found someone new. The song, Whispering Sea, captures the mystery of songs from that era, where the natural world transpires as a friend or foe to the narrator, usually a wanderer, adrift and at a crossroads. What is remarkable about the song being recorded by an 83-year-old woman is that Lynn’s vocals are no less anguished; she could well have unearthed a lost love letter from a time capsule buried decades ago. In December, Lynn explained to Billboard that avoiding cigarettes and alcohol all her life is why her voice remains so robust, which may have served her well technically, but what Full Circle shows is that Lynn remains a rarity among singers for holding back and singing like she is unraveling a story, each line a precious chapter. Here, the songs are not sold; they are told. The old-time acoustics, featuring Sam Bush on mandolin, sets Black Jack David in the Butcher Holler of the imagination. Each line details the seduction of the teenage girl by a mysterious stranger and unfolds like a fable. Always On My Mind – a hit for Elvis Presley and the Pet Shop Boys – may be more mature fare, but even so, the waves that float through Lynn’s voice clearly mark the regret. Those who know her story might say both songs are bookend references to her lifelong marriage to Oliver “Doolittle” Lynn, who died in 1996, the main character in a love song she lived for nearly 50 years. As the PBS documentary notes, even though Tammy Wynette sang Stand By Your Man, she married five times. Lynn is living proof that fighting for love deepens not only the relationship, but the songs as well.From stetsons to snapbacks: why country stars are ditching tradition Her influence is legion, especially for women in country music. In this shadow stands Midwest Farmer’s Daughter (Third Man), the debut album by Nashville newcomer Margo Price. Besides the title nod to Lynn’s landmark song, the music covers familiar ground: honky-tonk complaints about the opposite sex and soft-focus ballads with strings. Price is a hot commodity for the NPR set who can’t tell Hank Williams from Hank Snow, and it’s understandable. She has a life story marked by tragedy, an endorsement from Jack White who signed her to his label, and the music meets every expectation for high-gloss hillbilly fare: whining pedal steel guitars, chugging rockabilly, and the requisite song championing the singer’s whiskey consumption.This is tourism country, and certainly an album that might get some listeners to eventually push past these songs to get to better stuff, both from the past and underground champions like Justin Townes Earle, Shelby Lynne, or Lydia Loveless. There is the sense that Price is aiming for a confessional edge, but nothing feels at stake with these songs and the confessional angst is in the form of one-liners designed to catch the ears of generation selfie (“though you haven’t got a clue or another thing to do / Except take another picture of yourself”) who might not know any better. As Lynn continues to show, even as an octogenarian, writing songs can serve as therapy, but less so the other way around. 