I grew up with three sisters. We were extremely close but highly competitive. It was a joy and a torment, but they filled up my world and we are still really close. Jan is the eldest, then Sarah, then me and finally Virginia. I’m very grateful to my parents for having us and having us so close together (we’re all 18 months to two years apart). Growing up with three sisters meant I started off in the sisterhood.It was every girl for herself, but we faced the world united. I had a sense that, even if I was on my own, my three sisters were right behind me. Your siblings are the most enduring relationship you can have in life. Your parents will die before you do, and your spouse most likely won’t come along until adulthood, but your relationship with your siblings can last your entire life. These are incredibly important relationships.My parents [John and Anna] were very keen to instil self-reliance in us. That meant not depending on a man and not envying the children of rich parents, because they would grow up with no incentive to work. We were encouraged to pity exceptionally beautiful girls because they would go through life relying on their looks, then struggle when they faded. Not that I thought we paid any attention to our parents at the time. We were in revolt against the older generation from the word go. When girls said their mother was their best friend, I used to think, how pitiful. It’s ironic to think my parents managed to imprint their values on us.Harriet Harman: ‘I don’t want to be not-liked. It’s just that nobody did for nearly 20 years’ My mother qualified as a barrister, but gave it up when she married my father and started a family. She never expressed regrets to us about giving up her career. At the time, I didn’t think much about her wig and gown ending up in the dressing-up box, but I now think that’s incredibly poignant.I had a real epiphany aged 19, when I was home from university. My mother, who was retraining as a solicitor, was studying a law book in the kitchen. Simultaneously, she was cooking kippers for my father’s breakfast and preparing a curry for his supper. The smell was horrendous. Meanwhile, my father (who, by this time, was retired) lazed in the lounge with his newspaper. I remember thinking that the idea of serving a husband like that was something I’d never, ever do.   My father was a one-nation Tory so he wasn’t entirely happy when I began my relationship with my future husband, Jack [Dromey, now Labour MP for Birmingham Erdington], who had been lambasted in the press as a trade union rabble rouser. My parents had always envisaged me marrying, say, a doctor or a lawyer. They were worried Jack would steal me from them, but when they realised how strongly he backed the notion of family, things were fine.I believe very strongly in not breaking your word to your children. During a half-term holiday in 1989, when I was Labour health spokesperson, I promised my son Harry I would take him to the cinema. I was then called to the Commons to deputise for the shadow health minister Robin Cook. I was anxious not to let the kids down, so I pressed ahead with the cinema trip regardless, and ignored increasingly aggressive calls from the whips and Robin. When I eventually came face to face with him, I thought he might fire me from the frontbench, but he just smiled. Why? He thought I was having an affair! It’s crazy that spending time with your children is a sacking offence, while cheating on your partner makes you one of the gang.I’ve always been adamant that my children, Harry, 34, Joe, 32, and Amy, 30, should do what they want rather than what Jack and I want them to do. Harry works in marketing, Joe is in political research and is a councillor and Amy is a bassoon player.• A Woman’s Work by Harriet Harman is published by Allen Lane, £20. To order a copy for £15, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders minimum p&p of £1.99.