For me it was Spiritualized’s Ladies and Gentleman We Are Floating In Space. On repeat. Until it became part of me. She’s got two kids now, and lives on the other side of the world.My first love song: musicians remember the soundtracks to their teenage crushes Inspired by stories from the likes of James Blunt, Mø, and assorted members of Squeeze and Madness, our readers share their own tales of early love and the songs that will remain forever synonymous with them.So You Win Again - Hot Chocolate   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest    Gus Glen 14 February 2017 11:51am1977 I was aged 15, on holiday in Anstruther during an improbably warm July. There was a small fairground on the harbour and the music system on the waltzers played 'You Win Again' by Hot Chocolate incessantly. I managed to put my arm around a girl from Ayrshire we'd been hanging around with, she left a couple of days later not before giving me my first kiss. We wrote letters for a while, daily at first, then weekly then just weakly. I never saw her again.But that song comes on and I'm back on a beach with sharing a bag of chips with her.Chant No 1 (I Don’t Need This Pressure On) - Spandau Ballet   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest    vonZeppelin 14 February 2017 8:25amMy teenage years got off to a poor start. One summers evening whilst jogging back home from the parks, I stepped into the road to avoid a pack of girls. I then tripped over the kerb ahead of them. To howls of laughter, head down I hurried the last few yards to my front door. Even worse, mum thought some of those girls looking towards our house, pointing and saying "he lives there" were girls with a crush on me. Soon, I developed a crush of my own on one of them, (along with a young female teacher at our school who taught European Studies). It was 1981, and I'd visit the parks knowing her and a friend would later come down. Sitting on my Raleigh bike totally not like Brando on his Triumph, she would appear and seemingly look across towards me. Unfortunately some older lads would also appear and confidentially crowd them out. My soundtrack to this wonderful but frustrating summer was 'I don't need this pressure on' by Spandau Ballet. A record I'd play to death, imaging myself as a new romantic success with the ladies, trawling the subterranean clubs my imagination thought existed withing our crumbling port city.You ain’t seen nothing yet - Bachmann Turner Overdrive   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest    mojoangel 14 February 2017 8:45amThis comment has been chosen by Guardian staff because it contributes to the debateI went to an all boys school and knew very little about girls or how they functioned mentally and emotionally. My teenage crush was at the sixth form summer dance which was arranged with a girl's school nearby. I was besotted by a lass and we danced wildly to Bachmann Turner Overdrive's "You ain't seen nothing yet". I was over the moon. But then she danced with another, bigger, much more mature lad and snogged him, and I felt I was basically dumped there and then. Even though we had nothing going on, just this one dance, it broke my poor, fragile heart. It took me ages to get any confidence again with females.Show you the way to go - The Jacksons      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michael Jackson, Tito Jackson, Marlon Jackson, Randy Jackson and Jackie Jackson of The Jacksons pose during a publicity photo shoot after the band signed to Epic Records. Photograph: Gregg Cobarr/WireImage   salfordexile66 14 February 2017 9:07amThis comment has been chosen by Guardian staff because it contributes to the debateBlimey this takes me back. My first real crush was on a girl who was in my year at school and was also a member of the swimming club I attended. I would have been about eleven and the year 1977.Our school was perhaps unusual in that the PE lessons leading up to the school Christmas party were set aside for 'dancing lessons' (one of the PE teachers was a trad country dancing buff). These consisted of formal line-type dancing with bits where you would actually touch a girl in a traditional 'waltz' stance. One dance in particular incorporated changes of partner with the girl moving along to the next partner in line at predetermined times during the song. I can still feel that moment when my stomach turned as my crush approached down the line, eventually becoming my partner in turn for what seemed a fleeting moment. I sometimes wonder if she noticed how I probably blushed when she arrived. Alas, nothing ever came of it - I was too shy and she was way out of my league (or so I told myself at the time).And the soundtrack to these events? Well at least the teacher had decent taste in music: Night Fever by the Bee Gees and Show You the Way to Go by The Jacksons.Baby I’m-a Want You - Bread   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest    ajs148 14 February 2017 9:38amThis comment has been chosen by Guardian staff because it contributes to the debateAlison Marshall. I was nuts about her. I was 17, she was 18. She had blond hair, blue, blue eyes and teeth as white as a pillowcase. She used strawberry flavoured lip gloss and she tasted like heaven. I would visit her house when she was alone and we listened to Bread, 'Baby I'ma want you'. She dumped me after about 2 months. As a neat compliment to teenage angst, I recall the stress of us separating made me break out in hideous acne which lasted for months. Many, many years later, back in my home town, I was in a supermarket queue holding a bottle of wine and some unruly, overweight youths were in front of me casually throwing piles of sweets onto the conveyor and cussing. Past me came a lady who said to the youths, 'Move out of the way...' 'Why Mum?' 'Let this man go first he has only one thing'. Thank you Alison.Positively 4th Street - Bob Dylan   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest    Ghostof99 14 February 2017 10:58amSummer 1972, just in the middle of O-Levels, going out with my first "real" girlfriend, until I came flying off my pushbike and went under a car...Fortunately, I suffered nothing more serious than concussion and a face full of cuts and bruises but when I next saw her, she saw the massive scab that was my face at the time and wasted no time dumping me. Emotionally shattered and furious at her, I scribbled down all the words to "Positively Fourth Street" and mailed them to her....a gesture that makes me cringe now I look back at it over the years...but it gave me some satisfaction at the time and that was increased when I heard that she went round for some time afterwards, telling everyone that yes we were over but I'd sent her this amazingly angry poem that she'd inspired..... I never did find out if anyone had told her that I'd borrowed it from Bob Dylan...What becomes of the broken hearted - Jimmy Ruffin   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest    Sidfishes 14 February 2017 11:44amIt was that glorious summer of 76. I was 17 and shortly to be leaving home for the first time. My best mate Oz had a sister, she was 19, two years older than me, beautiful, long black hair and the greenest of eyes. She was on her way to university to do a BA in English which meant that as well as being out of my league in the looks department, she was the height of sophistication. She was also going out with a lad who owned a Honda Goldwing and had 'Death' written in studs on the back of his leather jacket...A few months before, Oz and I had formed a band but we'd split a few days earlier over the announcement that I was 'joining up' as an infantryman, to get away from a bullying drunk of a father.Of an evening the band lads would get together in Oz's dad's garage to drink cheap cider and large tins of Watney's 'Party Seven'. we'd strum a few chords and then have a fight about who was out of tune and out of time. 'Musical differences' is the phrase - except non of us knew how to play music. That night was my 'leaving do' as the next morning I was on a train to Devon and 32 weeks of the toughest basic infantry training in the World.We'd set up a turntable and even had disco lights of a sort, a stack of Northern soul 45s and nobody to dance with. Until Jane (Oz's sister) turned up with a couple of her pals. They helped themselves to the cider and started going through the 45s telling us which of them were 'crap' and which were 'ace'. We (the lads) went very quiet as non of us was very good with girls, especially these sophisticates and although I'd known Jane for most of my life I'd always held her in awe and had hardly ever spoken to her and blushed like a traffic light when she spoke to me.Eventually, music broke the ice, soul music, 'sweet soul music'. Northern soul and the girls took to the dance floor..."Come on... Get up' ordered Jane and they did as I acted as DJ, under strict orders not to play any of that 'punk rock shit'. Eventually, I ran out of records I was happy to play and the music stopped. Jane came over and went through the pile of 45s... she came to one"You're going away tomorrow Sid?" she enquired"Yes" I said'Come on - let's dance to this' She ordered as she took my hand and dragged me to the dance floor.It was Jimmy Ruffin 'Broken Hearted' I held her close to me and her fingers played with the back of my neck as we spiraled around the dancefloor in my mate's dad's garage filled with weedkiller, a lawnmower and stacks of newspapers kept to light fires. A fire was certainly lit in me that night and as the song ended someone put it on again and this time during the dance our lips met and I could feel the warm curves of her hips through her chiffon blouse. At the end of the dance she whispered in my ear..'Be careful' She gathered up her friends and they left us lads a seething mass of testosterone bereft of female company.That dance and kiss kept me warm through basic training and in the places I was sent to. Even now over 40 years later I only have to listen to Jimmy Ruffin and it's as if I was 17 again and the smell of Jane's perfume wafts through the decades.She came home from university after one term... missing her mum too much and she became a civil servant, married the lad with the Honda Goldwing and has a fine crop of grandkids...