Piecing together my reviews list for this year’s Edinburgh jamboree brings home to me how dramatically the fringe landscape has changed. I used to operate a positive discrimination programme to ensure I reviewed widely beyond the so-called “big four” venues. These days that looks after itself.We know the Free Fringe and its imitators have changed the fringe – and for the better, most people would say. I’m not sure the phrase “big four” applies comedy-wise any more – and if it does, they have certainly lost what once seemed like a stranglehold on high-end fringe comedy. Some salient examples: Kieran Hodgson’s show Lance, performed on the Free Fringe, was my standout show of the 2015 festival. Since then, I’ve lost count of how many times I’ve been buttonholed by people telling me they’ve finally seen it and how great it is. It was duly nominated for the comedy award, and put a rocket under Hodgson’s profile. In years gone by, we’d have seen that reflected in how (or indeed whether) Hodgson returned to the fringe the following year: in a more eminent time slot, and certainly in a bigger auditorium at, say, the Pleasance or the Assembly Rooms. My lying, cheating hero Lance Armstrong Those rules no longer apply. With his new show, Maestro, Hodgson is appearing once again in the Voodoo Rooms, which is barely even a performance venue at all. No matter that it’s not good for either comedy (“I felt very sorry,” he said about last year’s show, “for all the people behind the pillar”) or his career. It’s difficult to exercise control of who gets tickets for which performance in the Free Fringe. And it doesn’t matter that there’s none of the traditional cachet that comes with a primetime slot at the Pleasance Courtyard, nor that in the olden days, this stick-not-twist venue choice would look like career stasis. As Hodgson told me last year, he feels loyalty to a venue that’s been good to him over several years. And whatever arguments might once have overridden that loyalty – bank balance, career development, prestige – seem no longer to hold water.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Goonish prop comic Spencer Jones Other examples proliferate. The goonish prop comic Spencer Jones, another breakout success last year, could presumably have his pick of Edinburgh’s venues – particularly since his profile-raising stint in the BBC’s Shakespeare sitcom Upstart Crow. But this year Jones returns to Heroes @ the Hive, where he’s charging £6 for his new show. Richard Gadd, whose Waiting for Gaddot was the buzziest hit of last year’s fringe, is likewise back in the (free) Banshee Labyrinth pub – although that’s a mite more explicable, given how in your face and non-mainstream Gadd’s work is.Not so Ahir Shah and Adam Hess, classic examples of the type of young, talented and non-niche comics who in times gone by – and after the successes they each scored in 2015 – would have returned to a higher-profile platform. But this year they’re playing the Free Fringe and Bob Slayer’s Heroes venues, at ticket prices of zero pence and £6, respectively.Edinburgh festival 2016: comedy shows that should deliver  This isn’t a new phenomenon – I could have said the same of Liam Williams last year, when after five-star success in a far-flung pub on the Free Fringe in 2014, he returned to, er, another pub on the Free Fringe in 2015. At the time, I might have written it off as characteristic of his bloody-mindedness – a bit of brand projection, even, to show how unbiddable Williams was by corporate comedy. This could still be a factor in the venue choices made by some comics on the fringe. The Stand’s venues have always had a political edge, styling themselves in righteous opposition to the venues that once comprised the misbegotten “Edinburgh comedy festival” brand – until it expired. Bridget Christie, Stewart Lee, Josie Long, Daniel Kitson are all at home at the Stand, but you’d do a double take if they cropped up at the Pleasance Courtyard. These principles may still be at play when acts choose to perform at the Free Fringe, at Bob Slayer’s venues, or wherever else. Money will also be a factor: counterintuitively, the Free Fringe is considered a less financially onerous way to perform at Edinburgh. But there is also just a healthier, more diverse landscape these days. Whatever spell the so-called big four once cast is waning fast, and comics seem able to choose – more freely, less neurotically – where to perform without grave consideration for their career prospects. That is something to celebrate, and if it means I am occasionally stuck behind a pillar while one of the best comics in Edinburgh performs, well, it’s a sacrifice that’s worth making. Three to see      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Greenwich bound … Sara Pascoe. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianGreenwich comedy festival The festival’s annual comedy-in-a-big-top beanfeast returns with a lineup including Sara Pascoe, dark Channel 4 sketch double act Cardinal Burns, and the man of the moment, Catastrophe’s Rob Delaney.• 26-31 July, National Maritime Museum, GreenwichA Night to Restore Sanity In October 2010, The Daily Show’s Jon Stewart held a “rally to restore sanity” to over-heated American politics on the national mall in Washington DC and 215,000 people attended. Ambitions may be more modest for its UK successor, at which a vast array of acts including Nish Kumar, Jonny and the Baptists and Pippa Evans appear.• 21 July, Conway Hall, LondonBridget Everett“One of the greatest live performers I have ever seen in my life,” says Jerry Seinfeld of the so-called queen of alt-cabaret and comedy in the US, Bridget Everett. Songs to make you laugh, cry and cringe are promised in this two-week UK debut.• Until 30 July Soho theatre, London