One celebrity stood out more than any other on the glitzy press line at the Bafta children’s awards on Sunday night. A baggy cloth cat, plump and pink, its doleful eyes catching the flashes from dozens of cameras. It was Bagpuss of course, that legend of 1970s television, still instantly recognisable, on the arm of co-creator Peter Firmin.Accepting a special award for his outstanding contribution to children’s media, Firmin, now 87, took to the stage and spoke movingly about his relationship with Oliver Postgate, with whom he created a wealth of timeless animated classics in a barn in Kent. Ivor the Engine, Noggin the Nog, the Clangers and Bagpuss all were conjured from simple characterful drawings or handcrafted from materials often knitted together by Firmin’s wife and daughters. Artist Firmin first worked with animator and writer Postgate in the late 1950s. The duo were paid £30 a week to create a series called Alexander the Mouse, which used a system of magnets to live-animate the characters. It was meant to be a six-week project, but despite various technical hiccups (including Peter’s hands moving into shot to retrieve errant characters), it lasted six months, and cemented a working relationship that would last for 50 years.“We will fix it, we will stitch it ...”One thing is clear about the Clangers and Bagpuss when watching today – their messaging about ecology and recycling is strikingly timely. The Clanger world is beset by space junk drifting in from Earth, and Bagpuss is all about rescuing broken toys, lovingly mending rather than replacing. Was this always intended as a sociopolitical message? “Both Oliver and I were brought up during the war, and we started making models in our teens when you couldn’t buy kits or anything like that,” explains Firmin. “We had to use what was around us – and I think that approach stayed with us. Oliver would say something like, ‘Oh, we need a rocket for the Clangers,’ so I’d look around the barn and find an old jar or a milk bottle, and put that together with a yoghurt pot, and there it was. I was inspired by what was around me. Also, I’m very mean so I don’t often buy things.“That tended to get into the ethos of the stories. In one episode of The Clangers, they were bombarded by a machine that produced plastics, and they had to get rid of it – it was all about what do we do with all these surplus man-made materials. There was always this theme of, how do you look after your world? And of course, the Clangers have a very small world so they have to look after it very carefully.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Firmin refuses to name a favourite among his and Postgate’s creations, likening them to children. “But I do think fondly of Noggin the Nog,” he admits. “I come from Harwich in Essex and so we had a close relationship with the Danish port town of Esbjerg. Also I went to the British museum and saw the Lewis chess men and I thought they had a story to tell. I tried to tell it myself – I wrote a very simple love story, but Oliver took it over and made it much better and I enjoyed drawing the pictures for it. I always think of that as the best joint effort of ours because we both had a big hand in its creation.”Incredibly, in the turbocharged world of children’s media, The Clangers and Bagpuss have retained their appeal. Both are still available on DVD, their gentle pace and handcrafted appearance providing little pools of calm for modern kids and their parents amid the tumult of cartoon channels and iPad apps. A new Clangers animation is now in development, narrated by Michael Palin and produced by Postgate’s son, Daniel. The return of the ClangersBut the influence of Postgate and Firmin’s work has extended much further. Even videogame developers have looked at those classic animations and drawn inspiration from their use of recognisable textiles and objects. A key example is the LittleBigPlanet series of platforming adventures from Guildford-based studio Media Molecule, which often plans out its games as Postgate-style drawings and animations. Is Firmin surprised by this lasting influence? “I don’t know anything about video games,” he says. “I have a very ancient mobile phone and and iPad. But it’s amazing to me that when I Google Noggin the Nog I get a travel company in Sweden that does Noggin tours, and there’s a Bagpuss oilfield in the North Sea! “The influence seems to have gone all over the place. We don’t really mind – it has become part of the culture. I’m sure Oliver would have loved the new Clangers but he couldn’t have done that – he worked alone, whereas now they have a team of animators and dozens of puppets. The budget is comparatively enormous so they can do these clever things.”So if Smallfilms, the company that Firmin and Postgate set up in Peter’s barn, had been given vast budgets in the early days, would the Clangers and Bagpuss look very different? Would they have taken the money?“No, no, no,” says Firmin, resolutely. “Actually, Oliver had an agent who was selling films abroad. Once he said, ‘I’m going to ask for a load of money, you’ll be able to set up a proper studio with lots of staff.’ Oliver said no thankyou. His attitude was that small is beautiful.”“People often ask why it was that Oliver and I got on so well, and the main thing in the relationship was, he could write the things that I would have liked to have written and I could draw the things he wanted to draw. We’d have arguments about how certain things should look, but we got on very well. We understood each other. “The barn was perfect for us. We were very happy working there.” 