I enjoy nothing more than a lovely plate of fried locusts. They're nutty and flavoursome; no need to peel them, just remove the legs and wings. Of course, I don't eat them on their own, just as you wouldn't eat a plate of plain chicken. Ten to 15 of them work well in a curry or even covered in chocolate – I'm not disguising the flavour, just enhancing it. My wife serves me a meal of them once a week and we both tuck in with relish. She has always enjoyed them as much as me. In fact, if I get the chance to eat insects without her, she's disappointed.I have been an entomologist, an insect expert, for 30 years but the closest I came to eating them was during my PhD on mites. I had to collect the 0.2mm mite eggs to study how many had been produced, and the easiest way to clean them off my brush after counting them was to lick it, so I ate tens of thousands. I wasn't bothered by it – it was just practical. It's only in the last 15 years that I have started to include them in my diet properly. I've even co-written a cookbook to tempt other people into trying them. My favourite recipes include pumpkin soup with mealworms and risotto with locusts.In a taste test we ran at Wageningen University in the Netherlands, the meatballs made using 30% ground mealworms were actually preferred – the texture is great, less gristly than regular meatballs. Personally, I'm happy to see what I'm eating, just as you wouldn't want your shrimps mushed up in a shrimp salad.I'm a realist, though. I know it will be a while before insects become a regular cookery ingredient.  Whenever I have a dinner party, they're always on the menu – but I include other dishes, too, because I know not everyone's a fan.In western society there is a cutlural resistance to eating them – maybe I feel differently because I've worked around them for so long. We're used to thinking of the word "bug" as dirty, or associated with an organism that makes you ill, but insects are actually very good for you. They are incredibly rich in protein and high in omega-3 fatty acids.Ironically, while most people would push away a plate of beetle larvae, they already unintentionally consume on average 500g of insects a year. The fruit and vegetables used in processed foods such as tomato soup invariably have insects on or inside them, and it all goes in the mix. Insects are part of our daily life – mites hitch-hike harmlessly on our bodies and homes and can't be removed by creams or washing. There's no reason they shouldn't become part of our diets, too.It makes sense to turn to insects for one of our sources of protein, instead of the usual beef, chicken or pork. If McDonald's served up a Bug Mac rather than a Big Mac I would be overjoyed.I spent four months in China, where insects are regarded as a delicacy, and tried many different species including dragonfly larvae and silkworm pupae; all of them were delicious. Whenever I go travelling, I like to sample the local cuisine and will try almost anything – especially if it includes insects. Fresh monkey brains were a bridge too far, though. I may be seen as unconventional, but around the world 2,000 species of insect are eaten – there isn't the aversion that there is here. Instead of looking down on the rest of the world, we should take up their good habits.  Changing my mindset around eating insects did take time, but it became easier when I began to view them as a delicacy, something special to try. Now I think of locusts as just land prawns. It's taken a while for us to accept sushi on our menus but now we love it – the next step is insects. When I first started eating insects I was seen as a weirdo, but attitudes are beginning to change – people are starting to see the sense in it and asking where they can stock up. In the Netherlands there are already shops supplying insects fit for human consumption, and they are available on the internet, too. A pack of freeze-dried buffalo worms costs €4.50. It's a potential boom industry for entrepreneurs. In 10 years' time I predict I won't be asked why I eat insects, but telling other people: "I told you they were delicious." • Do you have an experience to share? Email experience@theguardian.com