Remittances – money sent home by people working abroad – are hugely important in developing countries. In Burundi, they are vital.Two thirds of this small African nation’s population live on less than $190 a year, so this cash plays a significant role in smoothing volatile, often vulnerable, incomes. The average remittance-receiving family relies on funds from relatives abroad for 61% of household expenditures. This dependency on the diaspora is part of a longer story in the country’s history, marked by changes in colonial rule, war, genocide, civil unrest, and mass migration. As refugees poured into neighbouring Tanzania, Uganda and Rwanda, particularly between 1960-1980, huge numbers of Burundians also went to live permanently in Belgium, Canada, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. By 2010 more than 350,000 people, or 4.2% of the population, were living abroad according to the World Bank. 12 ways mobile money can go further It is these Burundians abroad who today provide a lifeline to those who remain, contributing as much as 22% to the country’s total GDP according to some estimates. Money is typically sent in small amounts of under $300 (£192), usually every four to six weeks, consistent with a pay cheque. But thanks to the current wave of political violence, getting money to relatives is getting harder. Many businesses have remained shut since protests around the contested election began in April. Some bank branches and money transfer kiosks are slowly starting to reopen, but these are few and far between, and located almost exclusively in urban areas, where just 13% of the population lives. Even in times of relative calm, making the journey to collect cash can entail walking for many days, or long and uncomfortable bus journeys. For the 7% lucky enough to have a bank account, the privilege seems hardly worth the trip. It’s not uncommon to hear people talk about spending over $20 on travel just to pick up $100.It’s for this reason so many remittances are sent informally, carried by hand in small bundles under a blanket, or entrusted to a bus driver crossing the border for a small fee – acts of startling faith.This story is well-known across the continent: it’s estimated the $40 billion or so in remittances to Africa each year represents less than half of what’s sent informally.Cutting lifelines: 'If we can't send money home everyone suffers' Fraud is also a huge challenge for the money transfer industry, and is one of the primary reasons international banks including Barclays, HSBC and Bank of America have been pulling out of the industry, de-risking their books to avoid money laundering and terrorist financing allegations. But what if people could receive money from their family direct to their mobile phone? It would eliminate the reliance on unsafe roads and unreliable opening hours.The company I work for, WorldRemit, specialises in enabling diaspora around the world to send money home by mobile, and as there were already by 2014 more mobile money accounts than bank accounts in Burundi, it made sense to expand our services to cover the country.The foundations for us to enable our customers to send money home to their families in Burundi were already in place. We partnered with Econet, one of Africa’s largest mobile network operators, which already offered mobile banking in the country. It first launched its EcoCash mobile money wallet in Burundi to help NGOs send funds to refugees after the long-running civil war ended in 2005. Today, two other mobile money services operate in the country.Do banks matter in developing countries? By making it possible for Burundians to send and receive remittances digitally via a mobile wallet linked to their mobile phone, recipients can choose to store their cash for withdrawal later or use immediately. Transactions are done using text messages, so even the most basic handset can be used to purchase goods and services, pay bills, or send money to other mobile-phone users.Burundi still has a way to go before mobile money is as successful as in Kenya or Zimbabwe, where mobile money plays a central role in the economy. But for the millions of people in the diaspora looking for ways to send money home safely, mobile money is a gamechanger.Alix Murphy is a senior mobile analyst at WorldRemit. Follow @AlixinLondon on Twitter. Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.