Demonic possession is a major problem right now – arguably the biggest hidden danger in the home. According to Reverend Philip Anderson of Rome, West Virginia: “Every home in every town in every country” has someone, right now, who’s frothing at the mouth in a dark room as a battle rages within. And yet I’m still waiting to receive a pamphlet through the door about it. Gothic horror series Outcast (Tuesday, 10pm, FOX) is here to fix that, by addressing the matter head on. And not just head on, but early on, with a small child called Joshua, who mashes a cockroach into his bedroom wall with his own forehead, licks up the resulting mess and follows it up with a gnaw on his own bloody stump of a finger. All within minutes of the opening credits.Based on an ongoing comic-book series created by Robert Kirkman, Outcast certainly knows how to draw you in. Kirkman, you will know, is the man behind the hugely popular zombie drama The Walking Dead, but let’s not get too caught up in that because in 2k16 zombies are passe. Whether it was the zombie-themed hen parties or one too many questions about your plans for a zombie apocalypse shoehorned into dull small talk, the undead are dead. Done. O-VER.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Don’t look down … Fugit and Philip Glenister as Rev Anderson.The Satanic entities du jour are demons, and they’re something Kyle Barnes (Patrick Fugit) knows a thing or two about. You have to feel sorry for Kyle, who grew up with a demonically possessed mum. One day she was skipping around with a kind smile, the next she was locking her son in cupboards and projectile vomiting black bile all over his Cornflakes. And, if that wasn’t enough, Kyle’s estranged wife went and got possessed, and now some innocent neighbourhood kids, including Joshua, have too. But then, as Rev Anderson (Philip Glenister) points out, there’s a lot of it about at the moment.The Walking Dead's Robert Kirkman sets out to fix TV The Reverend, who I guess has been watching Amazon’s Preacher, is a boozing, card-playing bailiff of God. Him off Life On Mars might not be the obvious choice for a southern Baptist exorcism merchant, but then Kyle doesn’t immediately make you think “soldier of God” neither. Prior to this opening episode he’s spent several months in bed, refusing visitors and collecting crumbs in his beard. But when the pair come together to form a crack team of hot, slightly-flawed-in-the-virtue-department demon slayers, they form the heart of a properly gripping supernatural drama. It’s no doubt helped by Kirkman writing the opening episode, but lets not deny the feat of turning spewing princes of hell into something subtle and thoughtful. It’s easy for some to dismiss comic books as a medium for children and the socially inept, but the reality is that more often than not they have a finely drawn introspection that’s just the ticket for this sort of thing. So here I am gobbling up all available episodes and itching for the next like a trembling child.Which brings us back to Joshua. Before the possession, he was a little sweetheart: tiny, cute, with a childish lisp, which is shorthand for all that is innocent and adorbs. Not that you’d know it to look at Joshua now, a pupil of the Linda Blair school of demonic possession and advanced yoga poses. Kyle’s methods of holy housekeeping, though, involve punching the child in the face like he’s tenderising a cheap steak; they’re a bit extreme, and not to be applied the next time you’re in a pub garden full of little darlings channelling Baal.