Valley bottoms are the last green corridors in congested cities and towns because most planners sensibly refuse to allow houses to be built on land that floods. However, these accidental linear paradises are temptingly blank spaces on planners’ maps: perfect for parking.A resident of Reading recently used the three minutes allotted to people speaking at local planning meetings imaginatively: Linda Trenchard attempted to persuade councillors by singing her own version of Joni Mitchell’s Big Yellow Taxi: “Don’t pave paradise and put up a park-and-ride.”Wokingham borough council was this month granted approval for a 277-space park-and-ride scheme on the banks of the Thames. Bath and North East Somerset council will next year decide which bit of Bathampton Meadows will be sacrificed for a £12m new park-and-ride. South Norfolk district council last month ignored objections by environmental scientists to wave through proposals for new rugby pitches and 315 car parking spaces on water meadows in the Yare valley.Never mind the Pooterish sacrifice of beauty for a convenient parking space: from a practical point of view, water meadows are giant sponges for floodwater. Councillors shouldn’t need the help of scientists to grasp that floodwater will cascade into rivers much more swiftly from asphalt car parks than pasture. Even the government recognises the value of such “natural” flood defences. Last week’s spending review saw £15m invested in natural flood management. Local authorities haven’t caught on.Joni Mitchell’s lament may be a song for all eras, but “you don’t know what you’ve got till it’s gone” isn’t quite right. We don’t know what we had after it’s gone is a more accurate rendition of what conservationists call shifting baseline syndrome. Future generations won’t remember the meadows we paved over. They may notice the flooding though.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Joni Mitchell sings Big Yellow TaxiBeaver pitchRiding – or chomping – to the rescue of flood-hit towns is an unlikely hero: the beaver. This dam-building landscape engineer has become the first mammal to be officially reintroduced in Britain after becoming extinct here, when the Scottish government recognised it as a native species four centuries after it was hunted out of existence.The beaver’s tree-felling forms dams and new wetlands that support species such as dragonflies and water voles, and slow the movement of floodwater downstream. Where beavers’ new wetlands are created from productive agricultural land, farmers will require compensation – but Scotland’s acceptance of the beaver is an exciting embrace of new wildlife. Hopefully the English authorities will prove just as enlightened when deciding the fate of unofficially released beavers munching their way along Devon’s river Otter.A different Balls game   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Strictly Gangnam Style: Ed Balls and Katya Jones strut their stuffEd Balls may have delighted the nation, but one small corner cheered on his departure from Strictly. Balls’s other post-politics job is chairman of Norwich City football club, and his beloved Canaries have ballsed up before almost all Ed’s triumphant dances: six successive defeats, their worst run for 16 years.Fans hope that Strictly’s loss is Norwich’s gain; if not, Balls’s first task could be to sack Alex Neil, the beleaguered manager. Balls’s Gangnam Style may prove a fine example of doing what you love and never working again, but his challenging stint at Norwich currently looks more like a case of ruining a passion by turning it into a job.