Walking along the estuary-side path on an ebb-tide, I kept an ear tuned for our “wet-footed god of the horizons”, scanned with my glass the shimmer around margins of emerging sand-banks for the bird whose curved-beak silhouette is as distinctive as its voice. These river-mouths of western Wales – Teifi, Dyfi, Mawddach, Dwyryd – have a startling textural beauty. Their swirling diurnal intricacy, their light-infused and tide-sculpted Celtic designs of water and sand were once a favourite wintering ground of the curlew.The haunting call of this largest of British waders, here and in its breeding grounds on commons and wetlands around the higher hills, is surely the most redolent sound of our relict wild country. WH Hudson described it seeming as if “uttered by some filmy being, half spirit and half bird”. Here on the Teifi I could hear one faintly, distantly, yet it still had a power to arrest and hold my attention. It bubbled up as though from the water itself, swelled to a crescendo and gently died away.Country diary: Ewden, South Yorkshire: Take the curlew's shilling Thirty years ago, when I lived in a house on the Dwyryd estuary, morning and night this sound drifted through the windows. A flock perhaps a thousand strong held to the shore through the winter months. To hear them descanting, to see them wheeling above the river in graceful, droop-winged flight was a kind of ecstasy. In spring, among the Rhinogydd foothills of the farther shore, coming down from the tops as the light failed, sometimes I’d put up one of these wary birds from its nest and it would fly straight towards me, pale and swift, a silvery phantom.Hill shepherds would collect curlew eggs; shooters killed them for their rich, dark flesh. Nowadays we merely destroy their watery breeding habitat. Hill foxes proliferate in spruce forests planted there. They take sitting birds from the nest. Crows eat their eggs. Curlew numbers have been in decline for years. Though not so swiftly as our nemesis of drained water races for the plains.