In a canary-yellow taco joint deep within Chicago’s hipster capital, Logan Square, Whitney drummer and vocalist Julien Ehrlich proudly exhibits an Instagram message sent by a fan. At the risk of offending said enthusiast – who suggests different places for him to stand so she can view him sufficiently during a show – her erratic tone is that of a low threat-level stalker. According to Ehrlich, the band’s co-founding member, interactions like these are becoming more routine. People send meaningful messages too, he assures. “This dude hit us up and he was like: ‘Yo, my mum just passed away a week ago and [your] song’s been keeping me alive’.” But mostly it’s crude selfies and stalkers.New band of the week: Whitney (No 90) “I never really use any social media to get laid,” says Ehrlich when I ask him about it.Guitarist Max Kakacek, the other principal member of Whitney, winces. “Are you sure that’s true? Dude, I’m trying to remember if you have…”“I’ve never had that interaction.”“Yes you have. You have.”“Oh man. No, I met that girl five years ago.”“Bullshit,” Kakacek concludes. “That was a DM.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Whitney are part of a new wave of sensitive male musicians injecting a lyrical sincerity back into guitar rock, a hyped group in a period where guys with guitars are rarely revered. In person, however, they are far from uncorrupted and innocent. They tear through every city like kids ransacking a giant sweet shop, the world a Willy Wonka chocolate factory filled with girls, drugs and tequila shots. Their combination of charm, silliness (their unfiltered social media accounts often document weed, nudity and conquests) and musicianship has won over the industry at key showcases such as CMJ and SXSW this year, while fans are so enamoured they’ve even started fainting at their gigs. This is classic, dusty Americana resuscitated by a group of feral indie bros.Heavenly Recordings' Jeff Barrett's playlist: Whitney, Kendrick Lamar and more In their hometown of Chicago they have become local celebrities. Ehrlich – slight, sharp and freckled, a walking, talking Quentin Blake sketch – nods, almost disbelievingly, that it has been “a little insane”. Today over tacos, they are plying hangovers with more beer after a packed-out gig last night. Kakacek, his soft, doughy features out of a Charlie Brown comic strip, has come out worst of the two. He stayed up until 8am at the after-party at his girlfriend’s house, which was so disruptive that she got a call from her landlord saying she was getting evicted.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Whitney. Photograph: David KasnicGirlfriends, however, are secondary to Kakacek and Ehrlich’s bromance. It began when the bands they were in as teenagers, Portland psych-rockers Unknown Mortal Orchestra and glam-rock group Smith Westerns, were on tour together in 2011. The pair really connected when Kakacek, completely nude, stood in Ehrlich’s eyeline at the side of the stage to distract him as he played drums. Some years, later they were both living in an apartment in Chicago, a few blocks from where we sit today. They started writing together and quickly realised that their songwriting was far more powerful than in their previous musical projects. The pair were constantly distracted by their own potential. “It’s really selfish,” says Ehrlich of their bond. “Our relationship is such that we can do whatever we want and don’t worry about what people are going to say.”SXSW 2016: Whitney, Naked, Iggy Pop and the festival's awe-inspiring sounds In 2014 they gave their music a name, something vague, so they could imagine a mythic person inhabiting their songs. “Whitney’s just a headspace,” says Ehrlich in a hippy drawl. “For real. I don’t want to say it’s a guy or a girl.”Living among community of musicians and artists in the Windy City, the group soon found a dedicated local following with their early demos that sounded like, says Ehrlich, a “crazy warbly Bon Iver” (indeed, their debut album was recorded in a similarly Iver-ish Wisconsin log cabin). Today, as a seven-strong outfit, they combine the solitary contemplation of Neil Young with lush, Fleet Foxes-style orchestration, soaring brass, uplifting keys and a gang-like mentality. Their music is infused with classic country tropes: lonesome guys and no-good girls, inspiration drawn from Kakacek’s dad’s cassette tapes of Marty Robbins, Johnny Horton and “weird old country singers who are a little cheesy”. For the past year, they’ve been travelling around in a beaten-up Grace Baptist Church van, often camping out in a family-sized tent to save money. “We wake up and are rolling in the grass, basically naked and shit,” Ehrlich explains.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Whitney’s Julien Ehrlich and Max Kakacek. Photograph: David KasnicPerhaps it’s symptomatic of your mid-20s, perhaps, where responsibility is secondary to a good time. But I do wonder how their girlfriends feel about, say, the naked selfies they receive.“I don’t know,” says Ehrlich. “We’re not 100% exclusive so…”Kakacek: “She doesn’t know.”Ehrlich continues: “You see, I tell the girl I’ve been seeing everything actually. Even if I’ve just made out with someone. She gets it. She’s just like well; you’re really far away from me, what am I going to do about it?”“Is making out even a big deal anymore?” says Kakacek. “Making out is pretty chill. It’s like shaking hands.”This forever-young attitude, mixed with their beautifully crafted, road trip-ready music, has resonated with teens and twentysomethings. Their new album, Light Upon The Lake, is a comforting retreat for those uncertain about the future.Ehrlich says the band tap into “a weird, vulnerable mind state” but they’re also bypassing cynicism or irony to provide an honest, if not melancholic, take on the male persona along with other new male indie artists like Car Seat Headrest and Alex G, they’re joining mainstream purveyors of sad lad songwriting such as Radiohead, Zayn, Drake. On tracks such as No Woman particularly, Ehrlich navigates adulthood with a relatable reluctance and weariness (“I’ve been going through a change,” he sings. “I might never be sure”). Others, like Follow, written in the wake of Ehrlich’s grandpa’s death, is an acoustic lullaby that softly laments loss but has hope in the end: “It’s like you’re runnin’ home again,” he assures.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Whitney live at SXSW, March 2016. Photograph: Amy E Price/Getty Images for SXSWMoreover, though, Whitney’s album is a time capsule of their mid-20, full of love, liberation and loss. When they’re 50 and listening back to it, how might it make them feel?“I’m going to hate it,” says Kakacek.“My kids are going to hate it,” Ehrlich interjects. “My grandkids are going to probably like it.” Will it make them feel sad returning to a period in which they are totally free from the confines of mortgages and parenthood?“So upset. Like, damn I want to be back there right now in our old apartment,” Kakacek responds.“Dude, do you think so?” asks Ehrlich. “I’m going to be flying high when I’m 50.”Kakacek: “I’m not going to be alive when I’m 50.”Ehrlich: “I’m not going to be alive when I’m 55 but I’m going to make it to 50.”Kakacek is concerned: “If you’re going to have grandkids by 50, you’ve got to get going.”Ehrlich shakes his head in despair, his eyes fixed on his beer, a man exhausted by the present, overwhelmed by the future. “I’m already going, man.”For now, anyway, their cantankerous future selves are far away. Instead, life for Whitney is one long spring break, an extended after-party, an endless road trip. A headspace.Light Upon The Lake is out now on Secretly Canadian