Be seen  Lululemon’s Lucent vest and shorts.Running in summer ought to mean visibility isn’t really an issue. But with the summer we’re having in these parts, it’s more likely that you’ll develop damp than heatstroke. There have also been days so grey it seems the sun has a hangover, and it never quite gets light. Proving that visibility does not always need to mean neon yellow comes this beautiful limited edition Lululemon Lucent range. The pieces are black, but the thread with which they are embroidered is reflective. That means they just look really nice by day, but enhance your visibility to passing cars by night. As with all Lululemon gear, the technical properties are impressive. I’m a huge fan of the Canadian company, and would highly recommend everything from their speed socks to the Stuff Your Bras. It’s amazing what you can fit in those clever pockets. Watch out for their sales online and in store. Runderwear      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Runderwear low-rise hipsters. Photograph: PRAnyone who hasn’t felt the need for running-specific underwear should take a look at running forums and articles galore. “You wouldn’t wear a regular bra during a speed workout, so why skimp on your bottoms?” asks Womens Running. Um, well, because … anatomy? I can see the point of the men’s design, so to speak, but women’s pants are just, well pants, right? Apparently not. The dreaded Chafe (an issue so irritating it deserves a capital) crops up time and time again, with plaintive online pleas for a solution. Shorts are often the culprit – particularly those with ill-fitting or just plain unlucky lining – but pants, too, must apparently bear their share of the blame. Multiply an irritation such as this over the course of a long run, and you’ve got, well, miles and miles of misery. So Runderwear were designed to be chafe-free, comfortable and sweat-wicking. And they certainly are all of those things – even if, as one reviewer on Wiggle put it: “I’ll never race without them … They look like Bridget Jones’ knickers though!”At £16 a pair, they certainly don’t come cheap, but if chafing is a serious issue for you than that’s probably £16 you would happily spend, right? They are super comfy, sweat wicking and come in all black, sky blue and pink. The company also makes mens pants, of course, as well as crop tops for women. Stay cool  Adidas Adizero singlet.Despite the rubbish weather, summer means vests, particularly when it comes to races or speed work. Every summer I search for the lightest weight vests I can find, because so many of them seem just too heavy and too tight. Looser fitting to me usually feels lighter and cooler. My ideal running vest would be similar to the type that elite men tend to wear – if it’s good enough for Mo … But as Project Oregon/Nike have inexplicably failed to send me Mo’s cast-offs, the best I’ve found so far are the New Balance range of Ice tanks (good price, at around £20) and the new super light Adidas Adizero singlet, though that has a cropped design that might not appeal to all. Skorts      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Howies summer running skort, £35.I used to raise a sceptical eyebrow in the direction of skorts. Why make running kit more girly, I thought? I’ve long changed my mind on this – some of the most hardcore female runners I know wear them, not to mention many of the top ultrarunners. This lightweight Merino skort from Howies (£35) is particularly good – the cut is quite close to the legs, rather than flared out (though if you prefer the latter, I again point you in the direction of Lululemon) but it moves with you when you run. As you’d expect from merino, it’s brilliant at moisture wicking – it looked a hell of a lot better when I got caught in one of the recent thunderstorms than the rest of me did … The simple matching black merino vest is also a superb buy. Kit questions?Reviewing running gear can be hit and miss – one person’s trainer heaven can be another’s blister-inducing nightmare. But if you have any kit questions you’d like answered, email me, and I’ll do my best to track down the perfect item for you. 