Having closed the door on an absolute scoundrel of a year, it’s time to stick my hands in some compost and get ready for the restorative magic of watching new shoots emerge. The world is in an increasingly scary state, but nurturing new life provides a welcome balm and a promise of a bountiful harvest of fruit, vegetables and colourful blossom to come. I know I’m speaking mainly to the already converted here, but we need gardening more than ever. So this year, I implore you to spread the word, to encourage and reach out to your non-greenfingered friends and family to give it a go. Overcome their hesitation (and any prejudices) by showing them how amazing it is to grow some of your own produce.Of course not everyone has their own green space, so if you have potential space on an allotment, or in your back (or front) garden, why not consider inviting people in and sharing your skills with them? Lure them in through their stomachs with home grown produce; the sweetest cherry tomatoes, blackcurrants bursting with flavour or fiery chillies and so much loveliness besides. Give them a taste of how easy some plants are to grow and tips on how to go about it, maybe throw some extra seeds in the ground yourself this year so you have surplus to give away. It will make you very popular and it all helps whet an interest.Of course you may think; “I’ve got enough to do, why bother?” Fair enough (and indeed haven’t we all), but this is part of the reason the world’s in such a mess. Maybe it’s time to reach out to others. To, as Gandhi once said, “be the change you want to see in the world”. Taking even small actions can make you feel good, as though at least you’re doing something nice, in a society that is spiralling seemingly out of control. I’m doing it myself this year. Opening up my gardens and inviting others in with gusto. Here’s a look at some of the best places to start if you want to tempt people into gardening:Tomatoes      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Want to have a go at growing tomatoes this year? Try ‘Sungold’, a super-sweet cherry tomato variety. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoIt has to be cherry tomatoes for maximum flavour, so I asked Alicia and Nathan from Troed y Rhiw organics which varieties they thought were the most delicious. They told me top of the pile has to be ‘Sungold’, a super sweet orange cherry which when they offer it out for people to try at farmers markets normally elicits an “oh my god” response followed by an instant purchase. They also rate ‘Sakura’, a widely available and larger red variety (which is apparently a prolific fruiter) and also the delightfully named ‘Yellow Submarine’ which is sold via the Seed Co-Operative. Chillies  The chilli ‘Bengali Naga’ is excellent dried or made into a paste as a base for curries. Photograph: Yasmin's Indian restaurantYou don’t need to have a garden to grow chillies; a plant will happily thrive in a pot on a sunny windowsill. They also make a good gift for the reluctant gardener with an interest in the spicier side of life. It could just garner their interest. I asked my local chilli expert, Shaish Alam, what varieties he would recommend. He grows a large number of plants for his Indian restaurant, Yasmin’, but ‘Bengal Naga’ is the plant he grows the most of - it’s excellent dried or made into a paste as a base for curries.Alam also recommends the ‘Kacha Morich’ chilli, which he tends to use whole in dishes such as jalfrezi. Both of these are hard to get hold of in this country; excitingly for me as a seed saving enthusiast, his plants were originally grown from seed passed on from fellow chilli lovers before he started saving it himself. There are many super-hot chilli varieties, and websites such as The Chilli Pepper Company offer an eyewatering array. Herbs and salad leaves      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Try dividing a supermarket herb pot into four as an easy way to get many plants for the price of one. Photograph: Kim StoddartYou do win friends with salad, especially when you pick and package an exciting mix of salad leaves with herbs such as parsley, basil, coriander, chive (with flowers), fennel and mint. Once people try this combination of flavours, they are often keen to find out more.It just so happens that salad leaves are among the easiest plants to grow (on a windowsill, in a pot or in the ground) and therefore make a good choice for beginners to try out at home. There are many good pick-and-come-again varieties for this purpose, to which I also like to add rocket, beetroot leaves, red kale, spinach, winter cress, turnip tops, pea leaves, garlic mustard, sorrel and mizuna amongst others.A reliable cheats’ option for more sensitive herbs that are harder to grow from seed involves rescuing supermarket herb plants from their confined quarters, dividing into several clumps and potting out into fresh compost. It’s also a good way to get many plants for the price of one.Soft fruit      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Blackcurrant cuttings are easy to propagate. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianWhy not take cuttings from any existing soft fruit bushes now for plants to pass on later in the year? Blackcurrants are arguably the easiest, followed a close second by gooseberries. Work with the healthiest-looking stems and simply snip off a cutting about the length of your hand. It’s best to also remove any side shoots before planting out into pots or a bare patch of ground. You can use rooting powder if you like but I’ve personally found there’s no need with these.Anyone with summer fruiting varieties of strawberry plants will have a mass of baby runners which can easily be placed (still attached to the parent plant) into a pot for another popular giveaway in a few months.Find out more about Kim Stoddart’s new resilient gardener course, which launches in April, and the social enterprise it’ll be supporting here. 