My kitchen is … an airy, light-filled space in Chattanooga, Tennessee, with a white marble counter, light grey floorboards and a dark grey wall. We have open shelving and a hand-built table as an island, with a custom Lacanche range with two ovens: one gas, one electric. I like clean, simple, beautiful things: roughly hewn Japanese ceramics, natural linen tea towels, simple brass flatware. There’s nothing busy in my kitchen and everything decorative is functional.My favourite kitchen tool is … my hands. I like to use them when I’m cooking and eating, I can tell what’s going on so much better. Cooking by sense of touch is really efficient. And there’s no washing-up! My parents like to tell many unflattering stories of how sensual I was about food when I was little. And I’m still pretty shameless, eating with my hands even when I’m out.My storecupboard staple is … salt. I have a vintage plate on which there are tiny bowls of different salts just next to the stove. Right now, there’s some black lava salt, some pink rhubarb salt, oak-smoked salt, bourbon-smoked salt, Irish sea salt, truffle salt … I’m a collector.My kitchen secrets: Stephen Bush | Kitchen encounters When I’m starving I … will usually go for avocado toast with an egg. The egg is soft-boiled, the avocado has a drizzle of lemon plus some salt and black pepper, and I use homemade sourdough bread for the toast.My culinary inspiration is … my cravings. Suddenly out of nowhere, I’ll crave something – usually prompted by memories, visits, tastes – and then have it become a reality. I find that creative process of making a recipe so satisfying.My best-kept kitchen secret is … you’re only as good as your ingredients. It’s worth investing in what you use – even if you follow a recipe faithfully, poor quality ingredients will have an impact on the final result.My current obsession is … Middle Eastern preserved lemons with pink peppercorns. I’m experimenting with a more herbacious take on the traditional preserved lemon recipe, using meyer lemons and adding, along with the peppercorns, cinnamon, cloves, bay, fennel seeds, coriander, nutmeg … They are delicious with roast potatoes. Right now I’m trying one out in a Campari cocktail, in place of the olive …Everything tastes better with … a combination of salt, sugar and acid.When I go shopping I … buy what looks good. I tend not to go with a recipe in mind, but rather let the produce I find suggest what to make. I shop mostly at my local organic grocery stores and farmers’ market. I’ve been going to this market for such a long time, I know everybody there now. Recently I’ve had to travel a lot, and I’ve really missed meeting all those producers and vendors.Beth Kirby is a stylist, photographer, cook and blogger. She will be taking over Cook’s Instagram account this weekend; @local_milk