Cookbooks can be a slow business. It’s been almost two years since Sabrina Ghayour’s first, Persiana, came out, and waiting for the publication of her second, Sirocco, has, according to her, been “the most drawn-out pregnancy – like being told that your gestation period is 18 months long”.“Persiana is my first child; this perfect daughter that everybody seems to adore and Sirocco is my son. I’m nervous: are people going to like my little boy? It feels personal. It sounds crazy but I’m like, get it out of me already!” It’s true that Persiana is pretty much the perfect first child: published in 10 countries, it has sold more than 150,000 copies in the UK alone. Even for an industry that fetishises debuts, it has done fantastically well. Not that Ghayour could have predicted this. “I didn’t sleep for three months because I was so worried about what people were going to say.” Whereas Persiana focused on modern and accessible Middle Eastern recipes, Sirocco (meaning “a hot, dry wind blowing from east to west”), “is not specifically Middle Eastern food,” Ghayour says. “It’s just my style: food with full-on flavour.” The recipes are inspired by the flavours of the east, but the produce and cooking styles come from the west. Convenience and making the most of what’s in your store cupboard are major themes. Far from being fazed by the idea of substituting ingredients, Ghayour encourages it. “I’m unafraid to [experiment], because I’m self-taught. Recipes that give a little bit of leeway make you a more confident cook.” Ghayour’s background is in the restaurant industry, but in marketing rather than the kitchen. After losing her job in 2011, she started a supper club serving Persian and Middle Eastern food in her west London flat. She held the final one last year. “It went nuts; I started doing telly and it went more nuts. I’d get bookings months in advance. I didn’t ever want my living room to become the most exclusive joint in town,” she says. Her work may be less physical these days, but she’s still a grafter and thrives on being busy: “I’m lucky. I’m not going to complain. It’s what I was working for.” Tamarind honey prawns      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Serves 4–6raw tiger prawns 800g, the biggest you can find, ideally peeled but with tails left onvegetable oil for fryingsesame seeds 2 heaped tsp, toastedfresh coriander 10g, leaves roughly choppedspring onions 3, thinly sliced from root to tipFor the marinadetamarind paste 100gclear honey 75ggarlic 2 cloves, peeled and crushedlight brown sugar 2 tbspchilli oil (or olive oil, if preferred) 3-4 tbspsea salt flakesTo prepare the marinade, thoroughly blend the ingredients in a mixing bowl until the sugar dissolves. Add the prawns and work the marinade into them using your hands. Cover the bowl with clingfilm and allow to marinate at room temperature for 30 minutes.Heat a large frying pan over a medium-high heat and drizzle in a little vegetable oil. Drain any excess marinade from the prawns, then fry them quickly on both sides until they are cooked through and slightly charred. Cooking times will vary depending on the size of the prawns – if using standard supermarket prawns, you won’t need to cook them for more than 1 minute or so each side. But if you are using larger, meatier prawns, you may need to reduce the heat slightly and allow them to cook for a little longer. The marinade is sticky and sweet, which means it will blacken in the pan slightly, so don’t panic if the prawns look charred – they will still taste delicious.Serve sprinkled with toasted sesame seeds, coriander and chopped spring onions.Chargrilled octopus with maple chilli dressing and pistachios      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Serves 4octopus 2kg (I prefer just the tentacles from a large octopus, rather than whole small ones)sea salt flakesrose harissa 3 heaped tspmaple syrup 5 tbspolive oil for griddling and drizzlingpistachio slivers 50g, or 75g pistachios, chopped (skin on is fine)Bring a large saucepan of generously salted water to the boil, add the octopus, reduce the heat to medium-low immediately and simmer for 2 hours or, if using a whole octopus, for 3 hours. Drain and plunge the octopus into cold water.In a small saucepan, combine the harissa and maple syrup and heat gently. As soon as the mixture begins to bubble, take off the heat and set aside.Heat a griddle pan or a heavy-based saucepan over a high heat. Dry the octopus pieces using kitchen paper (don’t worry if some of the skin begins to rub away) and cut them into manageable lengths that will easily fit on your griddle pan. Rub all the octopus pieces with olive oil to coat them well. Cooking in batches, sear the octopus on the hot griddle for 1-2 minutes (depending on the size of the pieces) or until char marks appear. Transfer to a plate.Slice the octopus according to your preference and arrange on a serving plate. Drizzle the sauce liberally over the octopus slices, drizzle with a little olive oil and scatter over the pistachios to finish.Eastern-style fish and chips      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Serves 3-4For the fishvegetable oil 750mleggs 2 large, beatensea salt flakes and black pepperplain flour 100gsweet paprika 2 tspEnglish mustard powder 2 tspground coriander 3 tspturmeric 1 tspcayenne pepper 1 tspcod fillets (or any thick white fish) 600g, cut into 8 portionsketchup to serveFor the chipsvegetable oil 750mlfloury potatoes 1-1.5kg, unpeeled, cut into thin chipsPreheat two large saucepans or deep frying pans over a medium heat. Put the oil for cooking the chips into one pan, and the oil for frying the fish into the other. Bring the oil up to frying temperature, but do not allow it to smoke. Place the potatoes in one pan and begin to cook them.Meanwhile, put the beaten eggs into a small, shallow bowl and season with salt and pepper. Put the flour and all the spices into another shallow bowl, season generously with salt and pepper and mix until evenly combined. Coat each piece of fish evenly in the seasoned flour, shaking off any excess, then dip it into the egg mixture until fully coated, and finish by dredging it in the flour mixture again, ensuring each piece is well coated. Repeat until all the pieces are coated. Fry the fish in the second pan of oil until the batter is crispy and a deep golden brown.Remove the chips and the fish from the oil using a metal slotted spoon and drain on kitchen paper to absorb any excess oil. Transfer to serving plates, season with salt and serve immediately with ketchup.Bread boats      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Makes 4For the doughfast-action dried yeast 7gwarm water 500mlstrong white bread flour 700gcrushed sea salt flakes 2 heaped tbspolive oil 75mlFor the fillingeggs 6 largeready-grated mozzarella (not buffalo mozzarella) 250gyoung spinach leaves 120g, choppedspring onions 4, thinly slicedcayenne pepper 1 tspnutmeg a pinch, gratedunwaxed lemon finely grated zest of 1sea salt flakes and black pepperStir the yeast into 50ml of the warm water, then allow it to sit for a few minutes until it has dissolved.In a large bowl, combine the flour and crushed salt, then make a well in the centre. Pour in the remaining warm water, 50ml of the olive oil and the yeast dissolved in water and combine using your hands until you have a smooth dough. If the dough is a bit too sticky, just add a little extra flour and, if it is dry, an additional splash of warm water.On a clean, floured surface, knead the dough for 5 minutes to activate the yeast and stretch the glutens within it. Allow the dough to rest for 10 minutes before kneading it again for 2 minutes. Repeat this process another 3 times and, on the second, incorporate the remaining 25ml olive oil. Return the dough to the bowl, cover it with a clean tea towel and leave it to rest for 3 hours. Once the resting period is over, the dough will have tripled in size.Preheat the oven to 230C/gas mark 8. Line a large baking tray with baking paper. Divide the dough into 4 equal portions and shape each into a “boat” and place on the lined tray. Cover loosely with clingfilm and leave to rest in a warm place for 45-60 minutes.Make the filling. In a bowl, beat one egg with the mozzarella, spinach, spring onions, cayenne, nutmeg and lemon zest and season well with salt and pepper. Blend until the mixture is smooth. Divide the mixture into four equal portions and place one portion in the centre of each bread boat, leaving 2.5cm clear at the edges. Pick up the clear edges of dough and tuck them inwards to secure the filling. Beat one of the remaining eggs and brush any exposed pastry dough with this egg wash. Bake for 15-17 minutes, remove from oven and carefully crack one egg into the centre of each boat. Bake for another 6-8 minutes or until the egg whites are opaque.Spiced lamb kebab-loghmeh      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Serves 4vegetable oil for fryingonion 1 large, finely choppedminced lamb 500gturmeric 2 tspground cumin 2 tspground cinnamon 2 tspFor the yogurt sauceGreek-style yogurt 200gground coriander 2 tbsplemon juice a squeezeolive oil 4 tbspsea salt flakes and freshly ground black pepperFor the harissa oilrose harissa 1 tspolive oil 1 tbspTo servetortilla wraps 4 (or more, if desired), each cut into quartersfresh coriander ½ small packet (about 15g), roughly choppedspring onions 4, thinly slicedCombine all the ingredients for the yogurt sauce in a small bowl, seasoning to your liking, and mix well.In a very small bowl, dilute the harissa in the olive oil to make the harissa oil. Set aside.To cook the lamb mince, heat a large frying pan over a high heat and drizzle in enough vegetable oil to coat the base of the pan. Fry the onion until golden brown, then add the minced lamb and mix well to break down the meat and combine it with the onion. Add the turmeric, cumin and cinnamon and mix well until the spices evenly coat the meat. Cook for 8-10 minutes until the meat is brown and cooked through, then take off the heat and set aside.To assemble the kebabs, spoon 1-2 tablespoons of the lamb on to each tortilla quarter, add a dollop of yogurt, a drizzle of harissa oil, sprinkle over some coriander and spring onion, and serve.Cumin-roasted aubergine wedges with pumpkin seeds, pine nuts, pomegranate seeds and yogurt dressing      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Serves 6-8aubergines 3-4 large, cut into wedges (ensure the skin sides are 5cm wide)olive oil 100-150mlcumin seeds 5 tspsea salt flakes and freshly ground black pepperGreek-style yogurt 6 tbsppomegranate molasses 4-5 tbsppine nuts 75g, toastedpumpkin seeds 50gfresh coriander a small packet (about 15g), leaves and stems finely choppedpomegranate seeds 100gHeat the oven to 220C/gas mark 7. Line a large baking tray with baking paper.Using a pastry brush, brush the exposed flesh sides of each aubergine wedge with a good amount of olive oil. Arrange the wedges, skin-sides down, on the prepared baking tray, then sprinkle liberally with the cumin seeds, ensuring some seeds land on the exposed flesh of the wedges. Roast for 45-60 minutes or until the aubergine wedges are golden brown, with dark, burnished edges. Arrange the wedges on a large, flat platter and season well with salt and pepper.Give the yogurt a good seasoning of salt and pepper and dilute it with a little water if it is too thick to drizzle. Drizzle the yogurt over the aubergines, followed by the pomegranate molasses. Sprinkle liberally with the toasted pine nuts and pumpkin seeds, followed by the chopped coriander. Lastly, sprinkle over the pomegranate seeds and serve immediately. If you have leftovers, they are great eaten the next day, served at room temperature.Dark chocolate, cardamom and espresso mousse cake      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Liz & Max Haarala HamiltonServes 8-10best-quality dark chocolate 200golive oil 175mlstrong espresso 3 shotsgreen cardamom pods seeds from 8, ground using a pestle and mortareggs 5, separatedcaster sugar 75gPreheat the oven to 200C/gas mark 6. Line a 24cm-diameter springform cake tin with baking paper.Melt the chocolate in a heatproof bowl set over a pan of hot water, then stir in the olive oil until the mixture is smooth and fully combined. Take the bowl off the heat and leave the mixture to cool for 15 minutes. Once cool, add the espresso and ground cardamom and stir well.Whisk the egg yolks and sugar until the mixture is pale in colour and nice and fluffy. Stir in the cooled chocolate and oil mixture.In a separate bowl, whisk the egg whites until they reach the stiff-peak stage. Gently fold the beaten egg whites into the chocolate mixture until evenly combined.Pour the cake mixture into the prepared tin and bake for 15 minutes. Remove from the oven - it will be quite gooey - and allow to cool in the tin before serving. Note that the cake will collapse slightly around the edges, but this is perfectly normal.Sirocco by Sabrina Ghayour (Mitchell Beazley, £25) is published on 3 May. Click here to pre-order a copy for £20 from the Guardian Bookshop