Ambulance 9pm, BBC1This week on the medical documentary series, paramedic Rich is called to Brixton, where a man who has taken an overdose has become violent. It’s just one of the incidents taking place when the pubs and bars start to either fill up or kick out on a Saturday night. But the service is stretched thin, with five babies being delivered by cool-headed call handlers across the city. When a call to attend a miscarriage comes in, it takes an emotional toll on all involved. Ben ArnoldNational Treasure 9pm, Channel 4Along with the superb performances from Robbie Coltrane, Julie Walters and Andrea Riseborough, the key to the success of Jack Thorne’s drama has been the carefully sustained ambiguity of Paul Finchley’s position. Even if Finchley is found innocent in the eyes of the law, what does his behaviour say about the entitlement and impunity of celebrity culture? In tonight’s final episode, will we be offered some answers as Finchley takes to the witness stand? Phil HarrisonDamned 10pm, Channel 4Jo Brand co-writes and stars in this downbeat but lovely social workers comedy. The third episode sees Al (Alan Davies) being sent to help a gay couple who are being hassled by locals, and Nitin (Himesh Patel) managing to get stuck in an air vent while trying to handle a hostage situation. The subject matter allows the scattering of some very real-world grit in among the frequent laughs, with Isy Suttie’s jarring temp a particular highlight. Grace RahmanDivorce 10.10pm, Sky AtlanticSarah Jessica Parker stars as Frances, a woman on the verge of divorce, in this new series written by Sharon Horgan. Frances lives in a world where the women are wicked and the men are 50 shades of boring. As an eventful birthday party provides a catalyst for change, her husband Robert (Thomas Haden Church) emerges as the real star. The couples’ small moments of hatred are so sharply observed it hurts, and the whole thing is uncomfortably funny. Hannah VerdierGreat Continental Railway Journeys 9pm, BBC2Another outing with Michael Portillo, who has pretty much completed his transformation from rightwing bruiser to Joanna Lumley’s understudy. Tonight he travels from Genoa to the Austrian Alps, learning how football was introduced to the port city by a Brit. After that, he takes a clifftop train ride along the Riviera Di Levante and winds up in Brenner Pass, where one of the world’s longest railway tunnels is being constructed. Ali CatterallEamonn & Ruth: How The Other Half Lives 9pm, Channel 5The breakfast telly favourites continue their exploration of the richest people on the planet, seeming overly awestruck by supercars, properties and even pricey ice-cream. That said, this is not a programme exploring the world’s disquieting wealth gap, but rather a look at what those kajillions can get you. This week, they’re in the company of poker pro Liv Boeree and Michael Acton Smith, creator of kids’ franchise Moshi Monsters. Hannah J DaviesFeed the Beast 9pm, AMCEven the appearance of The Wire’s John Doman as a racist businessman can’t enliven this David Schwimmer vehicle about two friends looking to open a Greek restaurant in the Bronx. They were hoping to spin this premise out for several seasons, but it was cancelled after one. In this opener, Schwimmer’s Tommy struggles to raise his traumatised son, while cocky buddy Dion (Jim Sturgess) is released from jail but now has to dodge the Polish mafia. David StubbsFilm choiceBody of Lies (Ridley Scott, 2008), 10.05pm, ITV4Not one of Ridley Scott’s best, but an absorbing excursion into Jason Bourne territory. Leonardo DiCaprio is a CIA operative sent to the Middle East by his handler Russell Crowe to track down a terrorist leader (read: Bin Laden), but getting involved in turf wars with suave Jordanian intelligence chief Mark Strong. The acting convinces, even if the plot doesn’t, although it serves as a peg for some sweaty tension and action. Paul HowlettWuthering Heights (Andrea Arnold, 2011), 1.10am, Film4      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Wuthering Heights. Photograph: Artificial EyeAndrea Arnold brings real conviction to her adaptation of Emily Brontë’s classic. This is the first version that makes overt the latent suggestion that Heathcliff is African Caribbean (he’s played by Solomon Glave as a youth and James Howson when older), emphasising the transgressive nature of his love for Catherine (Shannon Beer and Kaya Scodelario). It’s a heavy, passionate and, at times, brutal rendering of the wild moorland romance. Paul HowlettLive sportTennis: The Shanghai Masters Coverage of the second day’s play in the ATP tournament, featuring first-round matches.6am, Sky Sports 1Live International football: England Under-21s v Bosnia & Herzegovina Under-21s Group 9 qualifier from Walsall. 2.45pm, BT Sport 1Football World Cup qualifier: Slovenia v England Coverage of the Group F tie as Southgate’s team visit Ljubljana.7.15pm, ITV