I believe that the national planning policy framework will bring huge benefits to those who live and work in rural communities (End of the road for new out-of-town shopping centres as planning laws come into force, 28 March). In particular, the importance placed on building more affordable housing reflects one of the most important issues facing rural communities: increasingly young adults are moving away, unable to afford the price of properties. Likewise, I support the emphasis on developing the rural economy, which will help to ensure that businesses thrive and jobs are available for rural people.The NPPF also calls on local authorities to accommodate the aims of all neighbourhood plans into a coherent local plan. This is a laudable aim, but I wonder how easy it will be, and I am uneasy about the extent to which small rural communities will have the capacity to develop their own neighbourhood plans. I am hoping to be able to identify rural communities which have successfully achieved this, and how they have successfully engaged with local authorities and others, as part of the commission's work programme this year.Overall, I am pleased that ministers have acknowledged the importance of striking the right balance between economic, social and environmental priorities in rural areas. I look forward to seeing rural communities working with local authorities and others to ensure that they remain sustainable, successful places to live.Dr Stuart BurgessChairman, Commission for Rural Communities• It would be foolish to get too excited by the government's concessions on its proposed national planning policy framework (Editorial, 28 March). Look closer: the presumption in favour of sustainable development is still there and, despite a new definition, launches the certainty of endless legal and vested-interest battles over what is good for the economy and what is best for the rural environment.Furthermore, the framework is underpinned, and undermined, by an outmoded "predict and provide" approach to planning. Although the concessions are welcome, the proposed changes to the planning regime are proof positive that David Cameron's "greenest government ever" boast was meaningless spin. A presumption in favour of brownfield-first has been ignored, even though it is the most sustainable option for new homes and other development.Nick ReevesExecutive director, Chartered Institution of Water and Environmental Management• The interests of communities and developers could be reconciled – to lawyers' chagrin – if a land value tax with presumption in favour of community benefit were introduced.My street has been blighted for 40 years because it costs the developer little to leave the Carriageworks site derelict while fighting the planners (Business on the up after Bristol's Tesco riot, 28 March). An LVT would require Comer Homes to pay the same taxes as adjacent properties, proportional to the area occupied, thus receiving a strong economic incentive to develop in accordance with the planners' requirements. The planners would be able to align their policies to community benefit without fearing endless and repeated legal challenges. And affordable dwellings would, at last, be provided on this brownfield site. The incentive for development of derelict urban sites through taxes raised in this way would relieve pressure on greenfield development.James BrugesBristol• I was involved in economic development, in both rural and inner-city areas, for over 20 years, and I have experience of several hundred planning applications. I do not recognise the claim by politicians, both Tory and Labour, that the planning system is chiefly to blame for inhibiting economic growth (National parks get protection as planning reforms revised, 27 March).Time and again the thing that frustrates developing a site or building is the lack of suitable infrastructure. Thousands of acres of land or buildings lie undeveloped because of this fact alone. You need to get water and electricity in; you have to get foul water out. Boring but true. The cost of this means it can be too difficult to carry out development. There also has to be safe access on to a highway and this again can be costly to provide. Some sites have to be cleaned up from waste left over from a previous century.The crucial fact is that the development may not proceed because these infrastructure matters cannot be resolved, not for straightforward planning reasons alone. Making the planning system simpler is just irrelevant in these sorts of cases.Peter CurbishleySalisbury, Wiltshire• Do not be too hasty in saying there has been compromise in the new planning rules. Look at paragraph 199, which says:"Local planning authorities should consider using Local Development Orders to relax planning controls for particular areas or categories of development, where the impacts would be acceptable, and in particular where this would promote economic, social or environmental gains for the area, such as boosting enterprise."So, basically, if it is in the local plan that you can't do this, Mr Developer, don't worry, we can just put through an LDO and it's fixed for you…Sandra SempleSeaton, Devon• The government is to be congratulated for getting the planning policy framework down from 1,300 pages to 50 pages, but perhaps they could get the basic strategy down to five words: build for need, not greed.Clive WhichelowLondon• There has been a great deal of discussion about the fear that government planning policy would be a "developers' charter" while endorsing a perception that resistance to development embodied in so-called "nimbyism" is a reflection of a healthy democracy: that it shows that the voice of the citizen can be heard. To some extent this has a grain of truth running through it. However, what it does not reflect is the way that, as an influence on decision-making, the phenomenon is a mechanism for democracy to be distorted by what are in effect interest groups.The problem is that those people who will benefit from particular development proposals do not get a voice. These are the future residents of housing schemes, the people that will be employed at a new commercial project or consumers that will be served by a new regional or national facility. These people are difficult to identify and impossible to organise into an interest group that can be identified or consulted.In assessing the opinions of groups campaigning against development proposals, the decision-making bodies must be cautious about the weight they place on partisan objections. They must consider all the interests, even those that are not represented.Jonathan KammStockbridge, Hampshire• Your editorial (All in this together, 27 March) suggests the public's readiness to believe that corruption in government is commonplace and that cash for access to ministers might be construed as cash for influence. The same belief is prevalent here in Pembrokeshire about local government, where money is thought to enable planning permission.Elected councillors have claimed (mostly privately) that planning applications, even with major and detrimental impacts, will have to be given consent because the rich developers can hire expensive lawyers to mount an appeal against refusal, but the local planning authority cannot afford appeal costs. Some even add the myth that their authority will automatically be saddled with all costs if it loses at appeal. This is not "cash for influence" but a version suited for these straitened times; the threat of cash for influence.Mary SinclairChairman, Pembrokeshire branch, Campaign for the Protection of Rural Wales• Your report on the protection of national parks following planning reforms reveals a basic misunderstanding. Planning law in England is not being reduced to 50 pages. The many hundreds of pages of acts of parliament and subordinate rules and regulations relating to planning will remain in place. What is being reduced in size is national planning policy – which is something different altogether.Ian KinlochLegal member, Royal Town Planning Institute