I went to see the Best of BE festival showcase at the Barbican in London last weekend. It’s not a comedy event; it’s a triple-bill of the best shows from last year’s Birmingham European theatre festival. And yet, and yet – the third show on the bill may be the funniest I’ve seen all year.I’m writing about it partly to encourage you to see it for yourselves – Best of BE is touring over the next three weeks. But it also made me think (not for the first time) about laughter and context, and about the arbitrariness of the divisions between comedy – the art form and industry – and the myriad other types of performances that can be equally hilarious.First, the show in question, of which I saw only a 40-minute extract. It’s called Quintetto and it’s by a company called TIDA, represented here by the solo performer Marco Chenevier. That wasn’t the original plan, he tells us: TIDA intended to bring a full-blown, multi-performer choreographic masterpiece to the BE festival, but funding cuts in their native Italy put the kibosh on that. The only way he can now stage his show is with the audience’s help – to operate lights and sound, and perform a few basic dance moves alongside him on stage.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chenevier and his blundering audience accomplices in Quintetto. Photograph: Alex BrennerThat’s the simple premise, but it’s the execution that distinguishes Quintetto. At first, Chenevier is relaxed, bordering on obsequious, about the audience’s involvement: there’s no pressure, he says, whatever you do will be fine. But in performance, his rampaging ego and artistic perfectionism surface, and he becomes quite the thunderous martinet. It’s a brilliant faux-serious comic turn, expert in its handling of the volunteers, who are never the butt of the joke and are liberated to be as funny or as innocuous as they like. From the clouds of talcum powder that billow from his hair (he’s dressed as a centenarian female scientist – don’t ask why), via the dagger glares he directs at his blundering accomplices, to his wounded air as the show collapses around him, Chenevier’s performance would be a shoo-in for an Edinburgh comedy award or five-star review, if it were only billed as comedy. Or would it? Perhaps the opposite is the case, and I laughed so much precisely because Quintetto wasn’t billed as comedy? Perhaps, had it been “comedy” and I’d arrived with raised expectations of laughter, it wouldn’t have met them? After all, if laughter’s about anything, it’s about surprise, the unexpected. One of the paradoxes of professional comedy is that, by asserting itself as such – by saying, in effect, this is going to make you laugh – it erects an immediate obstacle to the realisation of that aim.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Outside the box... comedian Bo Burnham. Photograph: Murdo MacLeod for the GuardianOf course, the obstacle is often overcome – and is in any case offset by the tickled feeling we all get in anticipation of expected fun. But there’s still a particular quality to out-of-the-blue laughter that “comedy” itself can’t easily capture. Maybe that’s why some of my favourite comics over the years, such as Hans Teeuwen, Bo Burnham, and Stewart Lee, go to such lengths to complicate the idea that they’re even performing comedy in the first place. The uncertainty those acts generate about what it is we’re watching – the rug-pulling, shape-shifting state of their art – allows them to simulate and intensify the kind of laugh you have when funny comes at you completely out of context. That’s the kind of laughing I was doing on Saturday night, when Chenevier’s performance posted a glorious reminder that there are expertly funny people working across the performing arts, not only in comedy – and that these are often meaningless distinctions. I noticed over the weekend another oddball comic, John-Luke Roberts, citing the theatre company Spymonkey as one of the acts he finds most funny. To them, you could add artists such as Jamie Wood, Sh!t Theatre or the Pretend Men – very funny theatre-makers who choose, for whatever reason, not to classify themselves as (just) comedy. You could cite “straight” actors such as Arthur Lowe, Robert Lindsay or Martin Freeman, who tipped up in TV comedies being the kind of funny that audiences remember for years. This weekend, I have another act to add to that rich lineage of extremely amusing non-comedians. If you get the chance, and if this article hasn’t already blown its not-comedy cover, go see Quintetto on tour.Three to see       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The new Joan Rivers … Katherine Ryan. Photograph: Richard Saker for the ObserverKatherine RyanCatty celeb chat and bulletins from the frontline of ex-pat single motherhood, as the excellent Joan Rivers de nos jours continues to tour the UK.• Leeds City Varieties, Thursday 21 April; Glasgow Pavilion, Saturday 23 April; then touring.Max and IvanDebut tour for one of the best new double acts of recent years, as the skilled and intensely funny Max Olesker and Ivan Gonzales take their latest two-person, multi-character play The End on the road.• Rondo theatre, Bath, 22 April; Lantern, Bristol, 23 April; then touring.LocoAnnual festival of comedy films returns with a lineup featuring performances by Noel Fielding, Sally Phillips, and Simon Bird, not to mention a short film in which Judi Dench tries internet dating.• Until 1 May, in cinemas across London.