 The British Iris Society, known to friends and loved ones as the BIS, who has died aged 94, was familiar to horticulturists for many generations. Born out of the need of a group of iris enthusiasts post the first world war, the society was formed to exchange views and knowledge of this beautiful and interesting genus of plants. Enduring the rigours of the second world war, the BIS became an invaluable escape for men and women returning from conflict and provided a relief from the years of adversity that followed. At its peak, it was a thriving organisation holding shows across the country, actively engaging in efforts to breed new varieties and encouraging the cultivation of threatened iris varieties by amateurs. The BIS is survived by loved ones; the Hardy Plants Society, The Alpine Garden Society and the Scottish Rock Garden Club. It will be sorely missed by its international counterparts the American Iris Society, the Species Iris Group of North America and the Aril Society International. The society passed away in its sleep on the November 19 at its annual general meeting after years of struggle with an ageing membership, an inability to find new committee members and a lack of ability to move with the fast pace of modern horticulture...It’s a sad read, isn’t it? I really hope I never have to finish writing this obituary, but I am afraid to say the British Iris Society is on its last legs. Unless something significant changes at its AGM, it may well die just a few years before its centenary. It’s not the only one of Britain’s plant societies in this predicament either. Not all that long ago we lost the Eucryphia Society, and some of our other local and national plant societies seem to be heading in the same direction.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘In village halls across the country, these meetings still go on but alas the people attending are often the very same people that attended them 20, or more, years earlier.’ Photograph: Adrian Dennis/AFP/Getty ImagesAs a child, visiting local flower shows was a delight. Rows of perfect dahlias, brash and bold; alpines in terracotta pots; pristine and miniature and giant vegetables, monstrous and grotesque; but most of all, enthusiasm by the wheelbarrow-load, people I could talk to face to face. People who could show me things and teach me the skills I would need to reach the levels of perfection they had. Often there was a local plant society behind it all, encouraging you to attend their other events; talks that would transport you to the mountainsides of the Himalaya, demonstrations to teach you how to disbud a chrysanthemum and many others. They provided a place where you could be with likeminded people; friends. In village halls across the country, these meetings still go on but alas the people attending are often the very same people that attended them 20 or more, years earlier. The dedicated committee members that make them tick are often the only people actively engaged in the societies’ running, and their memberships are dropping quickly, often due to these stalwarts passing away. Let's put endangered plants in the spotlight | Robbie Blackhall-Miles As chairman of one of Britain’s cherished plant societies, and I am pleased to say I have high hopes at least for the future of one of these great organisations. But I am all too aware that without consistent drive and unswerving dedication, it could slip backwards. I see the place for institutions such as the Australasian Plant Society both on a local and national level, and I question whether we can really get the same level of horticultural interaction we need from Twitter and Facebook. But what will it take to make sure these societies remain central to British gardening’s culture? I wonder; is there a real place for plant societies today? Or should we let them pass away in their sleep, only to look on them as a cherished chapter in our horticultural history books? Robbie Blackhall-Miles is a plantsman and conservationist. He tweets as @fossilplants.