Homeowners in flood-stricken areas of Cumbria could see their already high insurance bills increase further following Storm Desmond.Under an agreement between the government and insurers, homeowners are supposed to be able to buy policies that include cover for flood damage from their existing provider. However, there is no cap on costs, and previously residents in the area have reported being quoted prices of £2,000 a year and offered policies with excesses of £20,000, or being turned down entirely.Storm Desmond: army aids rescue effort as communities struggle after floods The area has been hit before: in one day in late November 2009, 314mm (12.3in) of rain fell on the market town of Cockermouth just before the Christmas lights were due to be switched on. The river Cocker rose by 2.5 metres (8.2ft), backed up from its confluence with the nearby Derwent, and flowed down Main Street. Water reached more than halfway up the windows of The New Bookshop and other stores, and volunteers at Wordsworth House, where the poet spent his early years, rushed to shift furniture and exhibits to higher floors. The total cost of the damage was put at £276.5m.A new flood defence scheme designed to last 100 years opened in 2013 to protect the town from a similar deluge. The 115-metre-long barrier along the Cocker can be raised one metre, and a government minister said it would “give residents peace of mind for the future”.In nearby Keswick in 2009, water levels on Derwentwater rose to the eaves of the boathouse close to cruise boat jetties that were completely submerged. The Quaker meeting house was flooded and part of a building collapsed into the river Greta as its waters spilled into Fitz Park.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rubbish is piled as the people of Keswick begin the clean-up after flood damage caused by Storm Desmond. Photograph: Christopher Furlong/Getty ImagesKeswick’s new £8m flood relief scheme, with walls, embankments and three flood gates, was completed In 2012. A feature of the scheme was a series of glass panels topping a wall that follows the river as it turns towards the town’s pencil museum. The panels raised defences to about 2.5 metres. But on Saturday, the water surged over the top of the panels as residents took shelter in emergency centres and homes were flooded.Insurers say it is too early to judge how much this weekend’s floods will cost the industry. One of the UK’s biggest home insurers, Aviva, said it had people knocking on customers’ doors in affected areas. It said claims were still “within manageable levels” but it would take time to assess the impact.“Aviva has been on the ground throughout the weekend helping a number of customers who have already been flooded and providing advice to those who might be at risk,” said Dave Lovely, claims director for the insurer. “On top of the response we provided yesterday through visiting all impacted customers, we continue to visit customers today where we can physically get to them and we have an Aviva presence at each of the rescue centres to provide support.”A spokeswoman for the Association of British Insurers (ABI) said that for insurers the flooding was “not an extraordinary event”. “For insurers, this is the type of weather they expect during the winter months and [they] are geared up to deal with these events,” she said. “The priority for insurers is to help affected customers and several already have people on the ground in the area doing that.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Flooding has blighted the market town of Cockermouth. Photograph: Christopher Furlong/Getty ImagesKevin Pratt, an insurance expert at the comparison website MoneySupermarket, said that because the areas had been hit by flooding recently, the cost of insurance was already high. “People will be expecting more bad news on top of what is already a grim situation,” he said.After April, Flood Re, a new scheme that allows insurers to pass on the risk, will come into effect. The flood element of a home insurance policy will be placed in Flood Re, and the insurer will pay a premium according to the council tax band – from £210 for band A homes to £540 for band G homes and £1,200 for band H homes, the most expensive.Insurers are expected to use the scheme for the 1-2% highest-risk properties, thought to be about 350,000 homes, that would have struggled to find affordable cover in a normal market.In November the ABI said estate agents, property websites and developers of new homes should use a traffic light system to show would-be buyers how susceptible to flooding a home is. 