Welcome to this week’s blog. Here’s a roundup of your comments and photos from last week.fingerlakeswanderer picked up a new book that she initially wasn’t sure about, but “once I started reading, I couldn’t stop”:The sentences were so lovely that, even though many might complain that there isn’t much of a plot, they pulled me along and made me want to know what was going to happen next in the character’s life. I’m speaking of Academy Street by Mary Costello. It is nearly all told from inside the main character’s head, whom we meet when she is a very young girl, watching the funeral procession for her mother who has succumbed to tuberculosis. A series of events leads to her moving to New York City, and, similar to the lovely Brooklyn, the experiences of a young Irish woman in the big city become compelling.  By the end of the book, I felt as if Costello had introduced me to someone I would have loved to drink tea withfingerlakeswanderer In terms of plot, the character lives a fairly ordinary life, but the moments that create the dramatic tension and drive the narrative forward are poignant and resonant. By the end of the book, I felt as if Costello had introduced me to someone I would have loved to drink tea with.Jessica Lucy Beckitt is “about 150 pages into Oblomov [by Ivan Goncharov] and thoroughly enjoying it”:Most surprisingly, it’s absolutely hilarious – especially the long set pieces revolving around groups of people in a room not really doing much. That doesn’t make it sound great, but it’s a testament to this novel that so far our hero has had a few visitors and fallen asleep, yet I don’t want to put it down when it’s time to get off the bus – I’m hooked.Goncharov has a lovely narrative voice as well, which feels familiar and somehow kind. This year, I’m trying to work my way through the generally lesser known Russian classics – not that Oblomov is unknown, but I mean not a part of the assumed “canon” (ie Karamazov Brothers, Anna Karenina, Doctor Zhivago etc.) So far this year I’ve read Children of the Arbat and The Heart of a Dog. Enjoyed the former more than the latter, but both interesting. Any more suggestions very welcome! Christina Copp has high hopes for Donna Tartt’sThe Secret History: ‘I loved The Goldfinch, so when a colleague offered this, I couldn’y pass it up, especially when I was told by two people it’s better than The Goldfinch (which happened to win a Pulitzer).’ Photograph: GuardianWitnessDylanwolf recommended How I Became a Nun, a newly-translated novella by Argentinian author César Aira: First off no one becomes a nun. This novella is a wonderfully bizarre allegory of how César Aira became a writer. The protagonist is César Aira himself as a boy, although he refers to himself as a girl throughout and only through other characters do you understand that he is actually a boy. His father, an overbearing and violent man, has recently moved the family from a rural village somewhere in the Pampas to the city of Rosario. We join the two characters in a park as Cesar has just been bought his first ever ice-cream, strawberry flavoured, by his father from a vendor. His father insists that it will be the most wonderful thing he has ever tasted. César takes a small sample on his tongue and it is the most disgusting thing he has ever tasted.The consequences of this apparently simple domestic incident are horrendous. You can read this book in one sitting. It is famed in Argentina, has only just been translated into English and is well worth reading.Interesting links about books and readingHappy Birthday, Beverly Cleary!: the prolific children’s author Beverly Cleary turns 100 on Tuesday – a lovely piece about her from The New York Times.The Tournament of Literary Sex Writing: LitHub has just held an online competition to find the best erotic passage (whoa now) in a book and picked a scene from Giovanni’s Room by James Baldwin as the winner. What do you think?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I love finding these obscure titles that turn out to be so good,’ sharedbooksnourishcarole. Photograph: GuardianWitness‘I’ve spent the past 24 hours in tears’: bookshop robbery prompts flood of donations: one from us now – but it is such a warm and big hearted story that we couldn’t resist.If you would like to share a photo of the book you are reading, or film your own book review, please do. Click the blue button on this page to share your video or image. I’ll include some of your posts in next week’s blog.If you’re on Instagram and a book lover, chances are you’re already sharing beautiful pictures of books you are reading, “shelfies” or all kinds of still lifes with books as protagonists. Now, you can share your reads with us on the mobile photography platform – simply tag your pictures there with #GuardianBooks, and we’ll include a selection here.The next blog will come on Tuesday 19 April, so comments will remain open until then. 