To the set of the latest Fast & Furious, the multibillion-dollar movie franchise that any psychiatrist will tell you makes Clarkson-era Top Gear look relaxed about the size of its penis. If you have ever wondered what it’s like to jump from one Dubai skyscraper to another in a car – and more importantly, what it means about your relationship with your mother – this is the hot metal cinematic experience for you. And, yes, obviously I’ve watched them all.But that’s not important right now, because there is beef on the set of its newest iteration, Fast 8. Chances are your response to that is: “Um, yes? The movie stars Vin Diesel, The Rock, Jason Statham, Ludacris, Scott Eastwood … Self-evidently there is beef. It is a beef farm. Or rather, a mechanically recovered beef processing plant, where you would probably rather not partake of the wares on offer.”Yet wait – because I’m not talking about that kind of beef. This is the other beef: aggro beef, conflict beef, the kind of beef where franchise star The Rock posts a late-night, lengthy social media rant this week, and it isn’t just a stream of tenuously coherent hashtags like #30repsaminute #projectburn #justbringit #bloodsweat&respect #crushthefear #betterneverstops #bringonthegreat. (Actually, the last two are the most recent official slogans for Team GB – I believe they use The Rock’s discarded workout tweets as their official branding agency.)And so to The Rock’s 95 Theses. Beneath a short clip of him throwing some chap against a wall, he began by saluting the movie’s crew and “my female co-stars”. “My male co-stars however are a different story,” he went on. “Some conduct themselves as stand up men and true professionals, while others don’t. The ones that don’t are too chicken shit to do anything about it anyway. Candy asses.”Oof. As Bismarck once pointed out, those who like sausages and enjoy the Fast & Furious franchise should never see either being made. But there was more, including an insight into The Rock’s process for which Inside the Actors Studio would kill. “When you watch this movie next April,” The Rock revealed, “and it seems like I’m not acting in some of these scenes and my blood is legit boiling – you’re right.” Clearly, cinematic historians will come to view this post as the Hearts of Darkness to Fast 8’s Apocalypse Now. In the meantime, I hope The Rock takes a crumb of comfort from the fact that he is in a line of work where he is able to channel his raging desire to throw people into a wall into the role of a raging man who throws people into a wall.More pressingly, though, what of said co-workers? If anything, the international media have underplayed the outburst, reporting simply that it “sent shockwaves round the world”, and declaring that The Rock’s fellow Fast 8 stars were furious that “they are all suspects”. Quite. There were still several days of filming left. They didn’t know whether it was their ass being watched for signs of candy. I can’t even imagine the strain of living in that type of paranoia-inducing closed environment, let alone shooting a scene where a car has to headbutt a Chinook, and you daren’t even ask what your motivation for screaming NOOOOOOOOOO is, in case you’re being scoped. That set can have been nothing less than the panopticon of candyassery.Consequently, some of The Rock’s co-stars broke early and in ways that were painful to watch. Tyrese Gibson was so anxious not to be identified as the candy ass that he posted a film of The Rock singing to his young daughter accompanied by the observation: “A man wouldn’t be singing with his heart and soul to another man’s little angel if he had a problem with her dad.” I literally can’t think of a more candy-assed reaction. But Tyrese didn’t seem to be the candy ass in question.After a couple of days of fevered speculation, reports finally zeroed in on the candy ass in question – and, would you believe, it is said to be none other than Vin Diesel himself.Clearly, this is a lot to take in. This, after all, is Vin Diesel – real name Mark Sinclair – who, from the get-go, selected the pretend surname Diesel over something flashy like Vin Petrol or Vin Gasoline. That sent a humble message. It suggested he was hard-working, might retain his value better over time, but mainly represented a sensible, cheaper choice for the economically minded auteur. And I’d like to think Vin’s canon has borne that out.But now – well, has there been a higher-camp movie feud in years? On screen, these tattooed hardmen may square up tit-to-tit, a stack-heeled Diesel in the honorary Bruce Willis vest that hasn’t been washed since Die Hard, and The Rock in some sort of wired-up gilet that says: “I’m a law-enforcement operative who understands that sometimes rules have to be broken.” (Incidentally, given the height difference between the two, I’m not sure how the eye-to-eye contact is achieved. In Hollywood days of yore, some short actors used to stand on steps to tower over their female co-stars, but Alan Ladd made the Boy on a Dolphin crew dig a hole for Sophia Loren to stand in. Is Vin on a box or is The Rock in a hole? I’d appreciate someone from the set getting in touch to clarify.) Anyway, off-screen the story is surely different. The pair are – how to put this kindly? – actors. The powerful suspicion must be that were Vin and The Rock to have a real-life fight in a pub car park, it would just be two men screaming: “Not the face! NOT THE FACE!”All aboard! The Rock is taking a money-spinning Disney ride As for where we are now … The Rock has since posted a wrap message in which he explains: “Like with any team – that’s a family – there’s gonna be conflict. Family is gonna have differences of opinion and fundamental core beliefs … And like any family, we get better from it. At the end of the day me and #F8 co-stars all agree on the most important thing: Delivering an incredible movie to the world.” A moving reminder that, ultimately, it is about the art we leave behind.Still, it’s not at all clear whether there has been some kind of formal F8 peace process – perhaps UN ass inspectors were given access to the set to confirm that no viable candy existed. Perhaps some kind of candy-ass decommissioning process took place, supervised by a retired Canadian general. All we know is that Vin Diesel took instant leave of the set after he wrapped with a valedictory address to the movie’s cast and crew, in which he announced: “Daddy’s gone.”Mmm. As indicated from the start, it is an ongoing scandal that Sigmund Freud isn’t given a pre-title credit in this thing. I believe he was still listed as “Assistant to Mr Diesel” in Fast & Furious 7, but in light of this developing story his estate MUST insist that changes for 8.