War and Peace watched by 5.7m as writer signs up for Les Misérables Last Sunday, smack-dab in the middle of prime-time, a British television channel broadcast footage of farm animals in Suffolk. The footage centred around a lengthy, dry description of the county’s soil, which apparently necessitated a generations-long effort to breed a specific type of horse with a specific type of fetlock. The channel was BBC1. The footage was a Countryfile segment. And 8.6 million people watched it.More than eight million people. Watched Countryfile. For comparison, that evening’s War and Peace finale – the sprawling, sumptuous, endlessly publicised Andrew Davies literary adaptation that starred Hollywood actors, was co-produced by the Weinstein Company and must have cost many, many millions of pounds to make – was watched by just 5.7 million. It just goes to show that not even Tolstoy at his most expansive can hold a candle to the sight of Ed Byrne from the Brantano adverts walking up a hill in a cagoule.Sunday marked the highest viewing figures that Countryfile, a BBC stalwart of almost 30 years, has ever received. And yet this isn’t really a surprise. The series made headlines in October last year, when an episode gained a bigger audience than X Factor’s six-chair challenge, traditionally always a showcase of that competition’s sustained bearpit cruelty. In 2014, Countryfile was regularly the fifth most watched show in the country. In fact, ever since it moved to Sunday evening from its former lunchtime slot in 2009, a slow momentum has been building around the programme. And it has managed to achieve this in a very Countryfile way, without the slightest trace of hype or pomp.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest You might not have believed this if, like me, you grew up with Countryfile. My dad is a Countryfile nut, and he watched its quiet little first incarnation religiously. So ingrained was it as a viewing habit, in fact, that it has now taken on a shimmering, golden-hued nostalgia in my mind. There’s the smell of roast dinner cooking in the oven. The dog traipsing lawn-dew across the carpet. And my dad, who grew up on a pig farm, whisking a bowl of cream on his lap while he watched John Craven interview a monosyllabic agricultural worker. It’s practically jumpers for goalposts territory, but Countryfile was a big part of my childhood.This isn’t just blind nostalgia, either. Dad did the same with Formula One as well, and to this day I’d rather slash my throat from ear to ear than ever sit through a race. But Countryfile is still there, still part of the fabric. Even though I grew up to be a soft-handed member of the metropolitan elite who still can’t drive a car, and even though I’ve never knowingly done an honest day’s work in my life, I still see Countryfile as a balm. And, clearly, I’m not the only one.But why is this? Why has Countryfile managed to transition to primetime so successfully? Imagine if the BBC shifted Saturday Kitchen to a tentpole evening slot, or if it gussied up Gabby Logan’s daytime crown green bowls gameshow The Edge and relaunched it as a potential X Factor killer. There’d be bedlam in the streets. Ed Vaizey would walk to Broadcasting House and physically slap the license fee out of Tony Hall’s hands himself. But with Countryfile, somehow, it has blossomed into a sensation.Countryfile turns to 'hard core' issues after claims it is squeamish on rural life Could it be that we all secretly harbour dreams of rural escapism? Could it be that, after a week of slate-grey urban misery – of crowded buses and flickering fluorescent office lights and glumly pawed-at Tesco Express salad bags – we like to be reminded of the simpler pleasures in life? Maybe Countryfile speaks to the part of us that just wants to sit in a forest, or run our fingers through the grass, or watch a flock of geese skim across the surface of a lake at sunset. The part of us that wants to run away to an idyllic village, but never will because the Wi-Fi is crap and Dominos won’t deliver.I’m not so sure. The BBC is full of shows like that. It literally has a show called Escape to the Country, where a succession of bonk-headed London idiots are taken out beyond the M25 and shown all the glorious tumbledown estates they could afford with the equity freed up from the sale of their mangy little Dalston bedsits, and that hasn’t caught on nearly as spectacularly as Countryfile.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   John Craven talking to the Prince of Wales on Countryfile in 2013. Photograph: Andrew Hayes-Watkins/BBCAnother, perhaps more compelling, argument is that Countryfile appeals to an older audience that still prefers to watch broadcast television at the moment of transmission. Younger eyes, if they’re even fixed on TV at all, are drifting away with their iPlayers and their Netflixes and their illegal Game of Thrones streams. And this means that television can gain the most by casting its net around people who still watch it. It could be a mirror of the music industry, where the only artists who sell any real quantities of CDs any more are the ones who make the most deliberately bland music. After all, it’s easy enough to lump Countryfile with other popular but uninteresting fare like The Great British Bake Off.However, I think the real reason for all this success is simply that Countryfile is just a spectacularly well-made TV programme. It’s unrecognisable from its early days in the late 1980s, with its nondescript photography and low-grade production values. Then, a Range Rover driving through a puddle was the height of spectacle.Now, though? Now they’ve Coasted the living crap out of it. It’s Countryfile as directed by Terrence Malick. The whole show is astonishing to look at. The opening titles alone are all swooping aerial shots and mountain climbers and packs of horses charging through the foaming surf on deserted beaches. It’s like watching a Currys 4K TV demo.Awe-inspiring music pulsates underneath almost every frame of the show, heightening the majesty of nature. There’s even a bit each week – and this is where Countryfile perhaps strays closest to self-parody – in which a celebrity is invited to make a short film about their favourite country pursuits. The introductory sequence features a shot of TV chef Tony Singh all but twirling around in a rainstorm like Lucy Pevensie taking her first steps in Narnia. New Countryfile does, at times, lay it on a bit thick.Still, whatever your views on the ageism row that engulfed the show in 2010 when presenter Miriam O’Reilly sued the show after being replaced, it’s hard to deny that the current presenting team is at the top of its game. Matt Baker, especially, is a revelation.Countryfile presenter dropped for not being ‘young or pretty’ returns to show You might only know Baker from The One Show. He’s often insufferable there, guffawing along to every guest’s near-anecdote like some sort of terminally concussed gonk. But on Countryfile he’s something else. He’s usually found squinting against the sun like a Tog 24 Clint Eastwood, speaking in a weird kind of hushed beat poetry. On Sunday, we saw him standing on an unremarkable hill in the north-east. “There’s a raw beauty to this place”, he whispered at nobody in particular, “with honest scars of its industrial past.” He sells it all so completely that at times you’d be hard-pressed to think of a more natural Attenborough successor.Elements of the old Countryfile DNA still remain, however. This week there was a very serious-minded exploration of last year’s floods, for example, delivered with much more far-sighted clarity than has been seen elsewhere. Similarly, the bedrock of Countryfile – the really long weather report at the end, the closest thing that television has to the Shipping Forecast – has also made it through intact.However, for a Countryfile purist like me, it’s hard to reconcile all these shiny new buttons and whistles with the old self-effacing, stiff-backed lunchtime Countryfile that took genuine pleasure in the little things and really didn’t want to put anybody out. You only have to watch an episode of the series as it is now to see why it’s demolishing the competition – it’s a huge, ambitious colossus of a show, and it soothes and relaxes in the way that all good Sunday-night fare should. However, it’s all just a bit too flash. I’m aware that this outs me as an unbearable Countryfile hipster, but I have to say that I preferred the early stuff.