Christmas always creeps up on me. I’m never quite sure how, because talk of where we will spend it start as soon as the summer ends. This year we are heading to Anglesey, the beautiful little island off the coast of north Wales where we got married last summer. Christmas dinner is almost always my domain. It has become less conventional in recent years; we are a family of vegetarians and vegans, and this year my one-year-old, Dylan, will have his first proper Christmas meal. My task is to make something that will unite us all around the table.Why making Christmas treats beats buying every time | Homemade Christmas recipes I always make two main dishes. This year it will be a celeriac and sweet garlic pie, which is everything I want in such a dish: flaky, cheese-spiked pastry, a lavish filling with loads of flavour, and a crisp-textured top to crown it. I will also make my Christmas galette for the vegans. The trimmings change each year, and this time I’m going for golden crusted roast sprouts, harissa and miso roast squash, all topped with a vegetarian gravy that everyone will be fighting over. The feast starts with a pickled squash, charred clementine and radicchio salad. It needs to be started the night before, but it’s well worth the effort. It’s just the thing to get tastebuds and conversations going. We’ll end with a gingerbread and cranberry tart that’s lighter than the usual Christmas offering and, I promise, all the better for it.Charred clementine, pickled squash and radicchio saladServes 8-101 large butternut squash100ml white wine vinegar1 tsp coriander seeds1 tsp fennel seedsA cinnamon stickA good pinch of dried chilli2 sprigs rosemary1 tsp coarse sea salt10 black peppercorns200g feta cheese8 clementines, 1 zested2 heads radicchioFor the dressing2 tbsp balsamic vinegar4 tbsp olive oil1 lime, juiced1 tbsp maple syrup      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anna Jones’ charred clementine, pickled squash and radicchio salad. Photograph: Issy Croker for the Guardian1 Peel and slice the squash as thinly as possible and put the slices in a large mixing bowl. Warm the vinegar in a pan with the spices, rosemary, salt and pepper until just before it comes to a boil, then pour over the squash and leave overnight.2 On the day, set the oven to 200C/400F/gas mark 6. Put the feta on to a baking tray with a spoonful of the vinegar and spice mixture and the zest of a clementine, and roast for 40 minutes, until burnished on top.3 Make the dressing by mixing together the balsamic, oil and lime with 3 tbsp of water until thick, then add the maple syrup and mix again.4 Heat a griddle pan. Cut the radicchio into wedges, peel the clementines and cut them in half across the middle. Once the griddle is smoking hot, put the clementines on their flat side until they are nicely charred then set aside. Next griddle/fry the squash on both sides – you may need to do this in batches. Then griddle the radicchio on both of its flat sides.5 Once everything is griddled, lay the clementines, radicchio and squash on a big platter and drizzle generously with the dressing. Serve just warm with good warm toast if you like.Celeriac and sweet garlic pieWith its cheddar and winter herb pastry, this high-sided pie takes a little time, but at Christmas I think that’s OK.Serves 8-10For the pastry250g plain white spelt flour125g butter, cold, cubed½ tsp fine sea saltA few sprigs of rosemary, thyme and sage, leaves picked and finely choppedZest of 1 lemon25g good cheddar, grated1 egg yolk50-70ml cold water For the filling3 medium heads garlic, cloves separated and peeled1 tbsp olive oil, plus a little extra to finish1 tsp balsamic vinegar1 tbsp honey2 sprigs of rosemary, thyme and sage, leaves picked and finely chopped1kg celeriac220g crumbled Lancashire or good cheddar cheese150g creme fraicheJuice of ½ lemon1 tbsp wholegrain mustardA small bunch of parsley, chopped2 eggs, beatenA few splashes of Worcestershire sauce (I use a vegetarian one)Salt and freshly ground black pepper      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anna’s celeriac and sweet garlic pie is often first to disappear from the Christmas table. Photograph: Issy Croker for the Guardian1 Put the flour in a mixing bowl. Add the cubed butter and the salt. Rub gently with your fingertips until it is like fine breadcrumbs. Stir through the herbs, lemon zest and grated cheddar.2 Beat the egg yolk with 1 tbsp of cold water. Add to the flour and mix until it forms a dough. Add water a teaspoon at a time if needed tsp by tsp until it comes together into a smooth dough. Wrap in clingfilm and chill in the fridge while you make the filling.3 For the filling, put the cloves of garlic into a saucepan, cover with cold water and bring to a gentle simmer. Cook for 2-3 minutes, then drain.4 Wipe the saucepan dry. Add the garlic and olive oil and fry on a high heat for 2 minutes. Add the balsamic vinegar and 200ml water, bring to the boil and simmer gently for 10 minutes.5 Add the honey, most of the rosemary and thyme (reserving the rest, with the sage) and a good pinch of salt. Continue to cook on a medium heat for a further 5 minutes, or until most of the liquid has evaporated and the garlic cloves are coated in a dark syrup.6 Meanwhile, peel the celeriac and cut it into quarters. Set aside 300g and slice the rest into 2cm-thick pieces. Put them into a saucepan, cover with hot water and boil for 7-10 minutes.7 Drain and tip into a big mixing bowl. Add the cheese, creme fraiche, lemon juice, mustard, parsley and eggs. Add a good pinch of salt and grind of pepper and gently fold in the garlic cloves.8 Preheat the oven to 160C/325F/gas mark 3. Sprinkle flour on to a work surface and roll out the pastry to 3-4mm thick. Line a 20cm-diameter cake tin with the pastry, ensuring a little spills over the edges.9 Add the filling. Grate the reserved celeriac and pile it on top. Finish with the reserved rosemary and thyme, all the sage, and a drizzle of olive oil. Bake for 45 minutes or until the tart filling has set and the top is golden brown.10 Remove from the oven, leave to cool a little, then take it out of the tin. Lay a few herbs on top and serve warm.Anna Jones’s recipes for warming winter drinks | The modern cook Roast vegetable and winter herb gravyServes 82 leeks2 red onions2 sticks of celery4 carrots2 garlic cloves in their skins2 sprigs of rosemary, bay and thymeSalt and black pepperOlive oil2 tbsp flour500ml dry cider1 litre vegetable stock1 Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/gas mark 6. Roughly chop the vegetables and put them into a large baking tray with the herbs. Season, drizzle over a little olive oil, and roast for 45 minutes or until sweet, soft and golden.2 Remove the vegetables from the oven, allow to cool a little and use a potato masher to mash them all up.3 Put the tray of mashed vegetables on the hob. Add the flour and stir it in for a couple of minutes. Add the cider and the stock and bring to a simmer for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally to mix in all the good sticky bits from the tray.4 Sieve the gravy and keep in the fridge until needed. Reheat with a little extra hot water or vegetable stock.Miso roast squash and potatoes with almonds and kaleThis recipe saves a lot of work, as squash, potatoes and greens can be cooked together in one tray. The chilli, miso and lemon combo is a great foil for some of the richer seasonal dishes.Serves 8500g small potatoes, scrubbed clean700g butternut or other squash4 tbsp extra virgin olive oil3 tbsp white miso2 tbsp harissaJuice of 1 lemon100g kale, de-stemmed and shredded100g toasted almonds1 Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/gas mark 6. Cut the potatoes into halves or quarters no larger than your thumb.2 Cut the squash in half lengthways (no need to peel), use a spoon to scoop out the seeds, then cut into 2cm slices.3 In a small bowl mix together the olive oil, miso, harissa and lemon juice.4 Put the potatoes and squash on to a baking tray with half the harissa mixture. Toss well, using your hands, to make sure everything is coated. Roast for 40-45 minutes until everything is cooked through and browning at the edges. Turn everything once or twice to make sure it browns evenly, and keep a close eye on it as it can burn in a flash.5 Add the shredded kale and roast for a final 10 minutes. It should crisp up a little. Transfer to a serving dish and spoon over the remaining dressing and scatter with the toasted almonds.Golden crusted brussels sproutsThis dish has had many devoted sprout haters reaching for a second helping.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sure you don’t like sprouts? Try this crispy, salty pickled variety ... Photograph: Issy Croker for the GuardianServes 8250ml white wine vinegar2 tbsp mustard seeds1 tbsp coriander seeds1 tbsp fennel seeds1kg brussels sproutsExtra virgin olive oilSalt and black pepper100g gruyere cheese, to serve1 Set the oven to 220C/425F/gas mark 7. Heat the vinegar and spices in a pan until warm, but don’t boil.2 Trim the stems of the sprouts, remove any raggedy outer leaves, and cut each in half. Put them into a bowl and pour the hot pickling liquid over. Leave to sit for at least 1 hour and up to 4. Drain the sprouts, discarding the pickling liquid, and put them in a bowl with a glug of olive oil and a couple of pinches of salt.3 Heat a large heavy baking tray on the hob, add a little more olive oil, then put the sprouts into the tray, ideally cut-side down, but no need to be too precious. Cook on the hob for a minute or two to start the browning. Cover the tray with foil, transfer to the oven and roast for 10 minutes.4 Remove from the oven, turn the sprouts over with a spatula and put them back for a further 10 minutes. They are ready when they are tender inside, and crisp and golden on the outside. Finish with a few grinds of pepper and a dusting of grated gruyere.Gingerbread and cranberry tart (accidentally vegan)This tart is lighter than a lot of Christmas desserts – after a big, rich meal I don’t want a heavy, stodgy pudding. I serve it with coconut yoghurt whipped up with some vanilla seeds so my whole family can eat it, but it would be equally good with cream or custard.Serves 8-10For the oat and pecan crust140g rolled oats60g pecans, chopped90g runny honey or blackstrap molasses100g coconut oil or melted butterSeeds from 1 vanilla pod1½ tsp ground ginger½ tsp ground cinnamonA pinch of ground clovesA good pinch of salt75g wholemeal flour      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lighter than your average Christmas pud: a gingerbread and cranberry tart for when you just couldn’t eat any more. Photograph: Issy Croker for the GuardianFor the cranberry filling2 pears, peeled and sliced thinly2 tbsp chia seeds100ml apple juice or water300g fresh cranberries100g light brown sugar or coconut sugar60g coconut oil, meltedSeeds from 1 vanilla pod½ tsp ground cinnamon¼ tsp ground cardamom1 clementine, zest only1 Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4. Put all of the crust ingredients in a food processor and pulse to mix.2 Grease a 24cm loose-bottomed tart tin with a little coconut oil and press the crust mix evenly into the bottom. There’s no need to push it up the sides. Put the pear slices in a single layer on top of the crust.3 Combine the chia seeds with 100ml of apple juice or water and set aside until they come together to form a gel.4 Mix the cranberries with the remaining ingredients, stir until well combined, then add the chia mixture. Pour the cranberry filling on top of the crust and pear layer and spread evenly. Bake for 35-45 minutes.5 Allow the tart to cool completely before removing it from the tin. Serve with coconut yoghurt or whipped cream.Anna Jones is a chef, writer and author of A Modern Way to Eat and A Modern Way to Cook (Fourth Estate); annajones.co.uk; @we_are_food