Shetland9pm, BBC1Second in the six-part detective series set among the chilly Scottish isles. Now Perez (Douglas Henshall) has a body, the question remains: what happened to Robbie Morton and why are any attempts to discover the truth being blocked from on high? Meanwhile, Maguire (Ciarán Hinds) broods by the shore, fingering his BlackBerry as the team work out why he is such an enigmatic and secretive curmudgeon. This could be an hour of Hinds putting things in drawers and looking conflicted and it would win. He is superb. Julia RaesideBritain’s Trillion Pound Island: Inside Cayman9pm, BBC2Jacques Peretti visits the Cayman Islands, the Caribbean outpost popular with millionaire wasters and tax-shy multinationals. At first, it’s a sunny circus of jokey interviews and nervous denials by local lawyers and politicians. Peretti penetrates when he flips the issue and looks at Cayman society itself: no income or corporation tax but no welfare safety net either, and grotesque inequality, with trillions of dollars locked up in imaginary boxes. It’s not the way to go. Jack SealeMr Selfridge9pm, ITVAlthough Jeremy Piven’s retail magnate Harry Selfridge has been moved from Sunday to Friday for this fourth and final series, Mr Selfridge remains a glossy period piece with about as much plot as a phone book. This week, Harry is refusing to confront his grief over his mother’s death, much to the distress of his daughters. Instead, he’s frolicking with the volatile Dolly sisters and backing a scheme to make even more cash for his business, but should he talk shop with son Gordon before making any big decisions? Hannah J DaviesStan Lee’s Lucky Man9pm, Sky1James Nesbitt is maverick cop Harry Clayton in a fantasy conceived by the co-creator of Spider-Man and The Hulk. Cheeky DI Clayton’s day job tracking murderers is compromised first by his gambling, but then by a magic bracelet that lets him control his luck. In an opener that barely explores that premise, Nesbitt and a fine cast – Eve Best, Steven Mackintosh – drown in a slow drip of cliches and a lazy vision of London: strip clubs, Chinatown gangsters and a speedboat chase up the Thames. Processed cheese. JSMusic Moguls: Masters of Pop10pm, BBC4Narrated by Nile Rodgers, the Chic guitarist who produced Madonna and Daft Punk among others, this is a guide to the role of producers, who at their best can be compared to a “film director of music”. Lamont Dozier, co-responsible for the Motown sound, features, as does Joe Meek, 60s pioneer and master of the overdub. But the accidentally poignant centrepiece is a demonstration by Tony Visconti of how David Bowie’s Heroes was produced. It shows not just Visconti’s ingenuity but Bowie’s visionary brilliance. David StubbsThe Graham Norton Show10.35pm, BBC1Ice Cube and Kevin Hart, stars of Ride Along 2 (sadly, the original action comedy didn’t immediately evaporate on contact with auditoriums), join the cheeky pixie from Clondalkin to flog their product. Elsewhere, well, you know the drill: an audience member will be invited to the red chair to tell a true-life tale that will shock and amaze anybody who’s never thrown up or passed wind, before being flipped into chatshow purgatory. Can’t we just have Miriam Margolyes back again? Ali CatterallA World Unseen11pm, National GeographicAlejandro González Iñárritu’s 19th-century trapper epic The Revenant is already notorious in Hollywood, and not just because of its heartstopping bear attack; multiple crew members quit during its troubled shoot in the Canadian wilds. This behind-the-scenes doc doesn’t burrow too deep into production strife, instead offering striking aerial photography of the breathtaking locations and featherweight musing from Iñárritu and his stars about how capitalism chews up natural resources. A handsome, inessential DVD extra. Graeme VirtueFilm choiceThe Second Best Exotic Marigold Hotel (John Madden, 2015) 3.45pm, 8pm, Sky Movies PremiereThe lovable collection of silvery expats returns for an inevitable sequel. Dev Patel’s Sonny is expanding his Jaipur hotel business, with the help of Maggie Smith’s Muriel; foxy old Richard Gere may be able to help them with that. Meanwhile, Judi Dench and Bill Nighy dither around romance, while Celia Imrie’s Madge has her choice of men. Twinkly charm is guaranteed, but that’s enough now. Paul HowlettAbsolute Power (Clint Eastwood, 1997) 9pm, ITV4Clint is a veteran burglar who, by fluke, witnesses US president Gene Hackman’s implication in a woman’s murder. The thief decides to take on the establishment, with increasingly unlikely results, but it’s a taut, intelligent thriller, with Judy Davis as the mad-as-hell chief of staff and Ed Harris as a sly detective. PHToday’s best live sportTennis: The Australian Open The grand slam event from Melbourne Park continues. 7.45am, Eurosport 1Test Cricket: South Africa v England The final Test begins in Centurion. 8am, Sky Sports 2Big Bash Cricket The T20 tournament has its second semi-final. 8.30am, Sky Sports 1Scottish Premiership Football: Aberdeen v Dundee Live coverage of the game from Pittodrie. 7.30pm, BT Sport 1