Four siblings make their way to Narnia in The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, but it’s the youngest, Lucy Pevensie, who is the real heroine. I think most children feel they are Lucy when they read CS Lewis’s novel. They don’t identify with Edmund, who could be easily fooled with a chewy sweet, or Susan, who thought they should return home because Narnia was a bit chilly. Lucy reacts to things in the ways that, as a child, I thought I would – she is fearful but wants to be brave, she is looking to do the right thing, seeking justice for those who have been wronged. Plus, I liked the fact that we shared the same name.There’s another, lesser-known Lucy in the book, who appears between the publication details and the chapter list. Lewis’s dedication reads:TO LUCY BARFIELDMy Dear Lucy,I wrote this story for you, but when I began it I had not realised that girls grow quicker than books. As a result you are already too old for fairy tales, and by the time it is printed and bound you will be older still. But some day you will be old enough to start reading fairytales again. You can then take it down from some upper shelf, dust it, and tell me what you think of it. I shall probably be too deaf to hear, and too old to understand a word you say but I shall still be,your affectionate Godfather,CS Lewis  ‘Am I in love with life? Why not!’ … Lucy Barfield. Photograph: Courtesy Owen Barfield's estateLucy Barfield was the adopted daughter of Lewis’s friend Owen Barfield, a philosopher and author. Lewis’s long friendship with Owen was fuelled by a lively difference of opinion, with Lewis referring to him as “the Second Friend, who never fails to challenge one and prod one to new understanding”. Owen’s wife, Maud, was a dancer and choreographer. When Lucy was adopted by Owen and Maud two years after her birth, she was welcomed into an intellectual and creative family. She dabbled in ballet, music, poetry and painting and had some successes, touring with a ballet company and writing a symphony that was performed at Malvern College. Lucy was her father’s companion on trips to America, during which he took up the position of visiting professor at various universities. On these trips, Lucy worked as a piano teacher – a role she continued back in England, in a specially built studio at the family home in Uckfield.In her mid-20s, Lucy was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. Her illness developed rapidly, and she spent much time in hospital, but she continued to write poems, which her friend Anne typed. It was from these I caught glimpses of Lucy’s outlook on love, life, illness and faith:Am I in love with life? Why not!My outward wings take me beyondAll mortal, earthly, fleshly things.It is the growing of a flowerIt is the growing of a treeIt is the growing growth of spirit takes me thereAll pain evaporates in air.Defying doctors’ expectations, Lucy lived until 2003, spending her last years at the Royal Hospital for Neuro-disability in Putney, south-west London.I knew nothing of all this when, in 2014, I came across CS Lewis’s dedication. His comment that “someday you will be old enough to start reading fairytales again” rang particularly true to me. The reason I had taken The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe back off the bookshelf myself was because I’d had a moment of realisation. It had struck me that Narnia does not exist. Yes, as an adult this sounds obvious, but you could replace “Narnia” with transcendent experience, magic or a fate dictated by some higher power. I realised that I had been waiting for one of these rather unreliable entities to emerge and take me beyond the world I inhabited every day. I reached for Lucy Pevensie’s story but instead I found Lucy Barfield.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lucy Pevensie (Georgie Henley) and Mr Tumnus (James McAvoy) in the film The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe. Photograph: Phil Bray/Walt Disney CompanyI went on a search to discover whether, like me, she had needed fairytales as an adult but found almost nothing about her. Then I came across an article which seemed to answer my question. It described how she had received hundreds of letters from children who thought she was the real Lucy in Narnia and how much joy the imaginings of these children had brought her during her illness. But a friend of Lucy’s suggested that it wasn’t quite like that. While it made a perfectly rounded anecdote of how her life and illness were appeased in some way by her godfather’s dedication, real life doesn’t often turn out that way – it is not a three-act play with a redemptive final scene. So I decided to make a piece of theatre about Lucy Barfield and began a quest to find out who she was, in relation to her godfather’s dedication, but also as an individual separate from the narrative of the Narnia series. Through a mix of my own autobiography, memories of and stories about Lucy Barfield, mixed with Lucy Pevensie’s journey through Narnia, I explore as a solo performer, how we choose where to place our faith and reconcile ourselves to a life without magical kingdoms or happy endings. Lucy, Lucy and Lucy Barfield is at the Pleasance Courtyard, Edinburgh, 3-14, 16-21 and 23-29 August. Box office: 0131-556 6550.