The Neon Demon (18) (Nicolas Winding Refn, 2016, Fra/Den/US) 117 mins.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Beauty brings out the beast in people, Refn tells us, as he turns the seductive slickness of fashion styling against itself to occasionally breathtaking effect. Tracking Elle Fanning’s newbie model through the predatory LA industry and beyond, we end up at uncharted extremes of psychedelic horror. It’s a film that’s destined to confound, divide and appal – but nobody could accuse it of being timid.Weiner (15) (Josh Kriegman, Elyse Steinberg, 2016, US) 96 mins.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Anthony Weiner’s New York mayoral campaign becomes a car crash caught in slow motion in this grimly hilarious fly-on-the-wall doc. It’s a study of politics in the social media age and a portrait of a passionate, obstinate man whose sexting habits are running his comeback off the road. Strapped into the passenger seat, his wife (Hillary aide Huma Abedin) can only cover her eyes.Notes On Blindness (U) (Pete Middleton, James Spinney, 2016, UK) 90 mins.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A theology professor’s audio diaries tracing the experience of losing his sight are miraculously brought to life via seamless re-enactment and stirring, often surrealistic imagery. The result is more powerful than anyone could imagine: insightful, moving, spiritual and surprisingly sensual.Maggie’s Plan (15) (Rebecca Miller, 2015, US) 99 mins.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Who better than Greta Gerwig to play a screwball heroine whose control-freakery gets the better of her? Having accomplished, then regretted, her mission to snare married academic Ethan Hawke and have a baby, Maggie then hatches another scheme to reverse the damage, involving a scene-stealing Julianne Moore.Queen Of Earth (15) (Alex Ross Perry, 2015, US) 89 mins.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Holed up at a lakeside retreat with her supposedly best friend (Katherine Waterston), Elisabeth Moss descends into insomniac meltdown in this bold, expertly crafted psychological drama, which harks back to the likes of Bergman, Polanski and Fassbinder.