It was one of those peculiar – and in this case sad – coincidences that hippies love to find significance in. I had just half-jokingly posted on Facebook of my disgust that there was no Gong or Hawkwind in Pitchfork’s 200 Best Songs of the 1970s, when I saw the announcement of the death of Gong co-founder Gilli Smyth, sending me even further down the rabbit hole of the various Gong offshoots’ seemingly infinite back catalogue. Gong co-founder Gilli Smyth dies, aged 83 It was no surprise that they weren’t in the Pitchfork list. Gong have never had the canonical credibility of roughly equivalent contemporaries from the continent – the Pitchfork list features Can (twice) and Neu!, for example, and those Krautrock acts have been hip names for young bands to drop for decades now. But it’s understandable: Gong have always been out-and-out silly. Not just for the lyrics populated by flying teapots and pothead pixies, and song titles such as Captain Capricorn’s Dream Saloon Radio Gnome Invisible, but in every fibre of their musical being. In classic Gong, their flittering saxophone doodles, prancing and skipping rhythms, and the incantations of wizardly original leader Daevid Allen and “space whisperer” Smyth took the innocent infantilism of psychedelia and reiterated it in ever more intricate forms. As so often with clever people acting foolish, it has enormous potential for tweeness and annoyance, and it’s absolutely no wonder that Gong are an acquired taste. Daevid Allen obituary It’s not even as if the whimsy is just surface stuff, which you can discard once you discover some profound undercurrent: with most of Gong it’s silly all the way down. But once you get it, that’s precisely the joy of it. Very often their stuff resembles Captain Beefheart in its fractured jazz-rock structures and wilful absurdism, but the sound and mood is an absolute inversion of his gnarled troll-under-a-bridge machismo: Gong’s music is light as air, playfully cartwheeling through idioms, constantly pulling the rug from under any hint of prog seriousness with joyfully internationalist cabaret high camp, the sheer mind-boggling artistry of it all adding the savoury notes that saves it from sickliness. They grooved like mothers, too. From their very beginnings in the late 1960s, they incorporated plenty of the weirder side of black American sounds into their music, having played early on alongside the likes of Don Cherry. And with the classic early 70s rhythm section of Mike Howlett on bass and Pierre Moerlen on drums, they hit a groove more natural than pretty much any of their prog contemporaries – they were able to give most 70s jazz fusion acts a run for their money to boot. Indeed, lift an instrumental section from classic-era Gong and you could be listening to some Airto Moreira-featuring jazz-funk obscurity that fetches £978 on Discogs – and Moerlen’s own iterations of the band later on would take this aspect further.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Gong perform I Never Glid Before, in 1972.Dig deeper and there is plenty without the whimsy, too. The mid-70s lineup, after Allen and Smyth’s departure, was led by guitarist Steve Hillage, who stripped out much of the theatricality and created extended space-rock freakouts that could stand alongside Hawkwind or any of the Germans: the Live in Sherwood Forest 1975 album (released in 2005) captures this perfectly. Allen and Smyth would link up with Hendrix-obsessed perennial free festival band Here & Now to form Planet Gong, which also had plenty of rockouts and even managed to embrace punk and new wave as the festival scene got crustier. And perhaps most extraordinary of all there was New York Gong, the band Allen formed in 1978 with the then 24-year-old Bill Laswell and a trio of teenagers, creating one of the best funky post-punk albums of the era, About Time, and birthing Laswell’s hugely influential Material project in the process. They also never lost their collective mojo. Between Gong, Planet Gong, Gongmaison, Gongzilla, New York Gong, Pierre Moerlen’s Gong and Gilli Smyth’s Mother Gong, they just kept on keeping on, making explicit that they were never dependent on any individual, happy to waft and cavort through cultural spaces of their own making. Perhaps the fact that they had always embraced and celebrated their own naffness meant that they could never become truly naff: what has never been cool can never become uncool. I first saw Gong live in 1992 and they blew my tiny teenage mind, despite Allen looking elderly even then, and they have dissipated, formed and re-formed many times since, surviving the deaths of Moerlen in 2005, Allen last year and now Smyth.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Gong: Access all Areas.Their influence is as dissipated as their lineup. Most conspicuously, along with all manner of other prog-era obscurities, they were fetishised by a generation of Cosmic Scousers, notably Julian Cope, whose camp shamanics certainly show more than a touch of pothead pixie dust. They are revered by a section of Japanese rockers, led by Acid Mothers Temple – who made Gong’s Master Builder (retitled Om Riff) their theme song, and recorded collaborative albums with Allen as – yes – Acid Mothers Gong. Hillage, of course, went on to become a part of the Orb and founded his own space techno act System 7 with his wife and fellow Gong alumnus Miquette Giraudy – influencing the likes of Underworld, and continuing to this day. Sadly Gong haven’t been sampled more; inevitably, though, the godfather of experimental LA hip-hop beats and king of crate-diggers, Madlib, is a fan and has dug repeatedly into their catalogue. In general, though, Gong fandom is a well-kept secret, something you’ll only discover from unlikely people during late-night conversations. Maybe it’s better that way. Maybe the silliness is best kept under wraps, and the band that lived so very far out on the margins of good sense and good taste should remain under-appreciated and unexplained. On the other hand, there is so much crazily good music to be discovered down that rabbit hole, it seems a shame not to share it more – and it does feel like maybe all it would take is Flying Lotus to out himself as a flying teapot pilot, or a few hip Norwegian disco DJs to re-edit Gong tunes, for them to gain a whole lot more well-deserved recognition and inspire a whole lot more much-needed foolishness.