My father, Russell, was a GP and – with my mother, Sue, and brother, Philip – we lived in the house where he had his surgery in the steel town of Irlam, Lancashire. We’d have people knocking all times of day and night. He was known as Doc Nicol and everybody loved him. He was warm, generous and a great hugger. I’m a hugger, too. He was also very wise. He taught me happiness isn’t dependent on your view out of the window, it depends on the quality of your human relationships.My mother worked at Granada TV. She’d always wanted to be an actress and got into Rada, but war broke out so she never went. When live TV started in the 1950s, she was determined to get on it any which way she could. And she did. She presented What’s in Store – a show introducing new gadgets – and was in the first panel game, Let’s Eavesdrop. Later, she was a supporting artist in dramas such as Crossroads and Coronation Street. She was in Brideshead Revisited six times playing different characters.I was a cripplingly shy child. At parties, I’d stand behind my father. He’d been shy as a kid, so knew what it was like. My mother didn’t. She was a powerhouse of confidence and belief in her own good looks and charm. She was a total flirt and I was overawed by how glamorous she was with her ocelot coat and bright red nails. I did inherit her silly sense of humour, though. We’d love to go into a shop and try on hats – the dafter the better.Dad played the piano all his life. He didn’t read music, he played by ear … and a good ear is something he gave me. I sang from a very young age, but was so shy I’d only sing with him and very quietly. I’d do songs from West Side Story and Oliver! He was a huge theatre lover too and would take me regularly. He was also obsessed with tennis and a very good player. I didn’t inherit his sporting prowess, but he took me to Wimbledon every year. I miss that terribly now.Drama became a lifeline because I was garbage at everything else. My parents were incredibly supportive. Mum wasn’t bitter that she didn’t go to drama school – there wasn’t a sense of missed opportunity. She wonderfully put her ambition into me. And my loyal dad saw me in every back end of beyond venue I played. He didn’t miss anything. When I was in Mamma Mia! in the West End, he saw it 35 times. He was known by the company as Grandpa Abba.I was 50 when I met my husband Da’aboth. He was teaching reiki and I went to a class. I didn’t see him as a potential husband. He’d had an unhappy breakup and was so low he was almost invisible. Slowly, I got to know him and saw what a sweetheart he is. I haven’t always had the pleasure of that in relationships. There are men who are game players – they can screw with your head. Darbs wouldn’t know a game if it bit him on the nose. He’s safe in his own skin.Dogs aren’t child replacements, but if you have one, they’re your family. They give us so much affection and joy, I don’t know how I managed without Bertie, our terrier, and Freddie, our poodle.People give you rules. They say: “You’ll not get married, you’re over 50, you’re set in your ways!” Don’t be restricted by other people’s perceptions. When we met, it felt natural for Darbs to be in my life. The only unnatural thing was when he left my flat and went home. I’d think: “He shouldn’t leave. He belongs here.” We celebrate our 10th anniversary this year. Gettting married was the best thing I’ve ever done.• Lesley appears in the US crime drama The Catch on Sky Living, Thursday, 10pm 