It’s a shame, I feel, that for many people tofu is a flavourless meat substitute, to be overloaded with all the flavour it doesn’t naturally come with. Of course, if you only encounter it in long-life Tetra Paks, I understand why you’d want to amp up the aromatics. Tofu, traditionally, isn’t meant to last longer than the day it’s made. Which is why in Japan you still find itinerant tofu sellers, who ride around with a little copper horn on which they play a two-note tofu tune, and sing a song, to alert customers to their presence. Fresh and properly made, their tofu is a thing of beauty.Anna Thomson, who sent in the agedashi dofu recipe below, said her tofu dish of choice is hiyayakko and yudofu – cold and hot versions of the same simple dish: fresh silken tofu served neat, with minced ginger, finely sliced spring onion and soy sauce. And I agree. Japanese minimalism works as much life-changing magic on soybean curd as it does in sock drawers, and with a good block of tofu, there’s little else you need to do to enjoy it. But equally, that subtle flavour – nutty, fresh, vegetal – and its light, creamy texture are qualities that shine through even when paired, as in the winning Sichuan recipe, with myriad aromatics and a panful of meat.When it comes to prepping firm tofu, Rachel Kelly sent in excellent advice, gleaned in a Vietnamese kitchen. Boil lightly salted water in a saucepan, add your block of tofu and remove from the heat. Set aside for about 5 minutes, then drain the tofu and pat dry. Put on a plate or lipped chopping board, cover with another chopping board and weigh down with a couple of tins of beans or a pile of hard-backed books, ensuring the weight is evenly distributed. Leave for at least an hour: preferably overnight.The winning recipe: Ma po tofuThis is easily my favourite Sichuanese dish, but I never expected to manage it quite so well at home. Kok-Hwa Lie didn’t specify the type of tofu, so I tried it first with firm tofu, which was perfect, then with silken, which was less so, but still delicious. The trick is to try to prevent the blocks from disintegrating. As you can see in the above picture, I did not. So proceed as gently as I will next time. The combo of nuggets of melting bean-curd cream, super-hot chilli oil and richly flavoured pork is superb.A Chinese congee recipe served three ways | Cook residency Serves 3-4400g tofu 250g minced pork2 tsp Sichuan pepper1 tbsp oil Salt and black pepper2 garlic cloves, minced2cm piece of ginger, finely chopped1 red chilli, chopped2 dried chillies, chopped2 tbsp doubanjiang (chilli bean sauce)1 tbsp rice wine200ml chicken stock1 tbsp light soy sauce1 tsp sugar1 tsp sesame oil1 tbsp cornflour 2 spring onions, chopped, to serve For the marinade1 tbsp light soy sauce1 tbsp rice wine 1 tsp sesame oil 1 tsp black rice (chinkiang) vinegar1 tbsp cornflour1 If using firm tofu, soak and press as explained above, then pat dry and cut into cubes. If using silken tofu, cut the tofu into cubes, then slide into a panful of lightly salted water and cook for 1 minute. Drain very carefully, so as not to break up the cubes. Set aside.2 Combine the ingredients for the marinade, mix in the pork and set aside for at least 30 minutes.3 Toast the Sichuan pepper in a dry pan until fragrant. Transfer to a pestle and mortar and crush into a powder.4 Heat the oil in a frying pan and brown the marinated meat on all sides, then remove from the pan.5 Saute the garlic, ginger, fresh and dried chilli, plus 1 tsp of the ground Sichuan pepper for 1-2 minutes. Add the chilli bean sauce and rice wine. Cook for a further 2 minutes. Return the meat back to the pan, gently add the tofu and cook for 2 minutes.6 Add the stock, soy sauce, sugar, sesame oil and season with salt and pepper. Simmer for 2-3 minutes.7 Mix 1 tbsp cornflour with 1 tbsp water, add to the pan and stir.8 Garnish with spring onions and the remaining Sichuan pepper. Serve with white rice.Two recipes for Chinese braised aubergine and tofu salad | Cook residency Oven-baked agedashi dofuAgedashi is another of Anna Thomson’s favourites, but a rare occurrence in her home kitchen due to the deep-frying it traditionally requires. Her oven-baked version is an interesting alternative.Serves 2-41 block of silken tofuSunflower oil3 tbsp potato starch (or cornflour)225ml dashi 2 tbsp soy sauce1 tbsp mirin (or use 1 tsp honey) To serve2 spring onions, finely sliced1 tbsp finely grated ginger1 Wrap the tofu in a tea towel and put on a chopping board with a weight on top for 15 minutes to expel excess water. Pat dry.2 Set the oven to 220C/425F/gas mark 7 or hotter, if possible. Pour a thin layer of oil in a shallow baking tray and put in the oven.3 Cut the tofu into cubes. Put the potato starch into a bowl, then add the tofu and coat by shaking around gently.4 Take the tray from the oven, put the tofu in the tray and return to the oven: be careful of the sizzling oil. Bake for 10 minutes, turning each cube frequently so that all sides are cooked evenly.5 Meanwhile, mix the dashi, soy sauce and mirin together. Set aside.6 Put the cooked tofu in serving bowls. Top with the spring onions and ginger, add the sauce and serve immediately.Maple tofu bao bunsColonialCravings professes a love for these sweet, soft, fluffy pillows of dough that I can easily echo. So I was excited by her attempt at a vegetarian version. My only addition is mayo on the buns – there’s just no other way to get the tofu up to pork-belly bao-filling fat levels. And more sriracha.Makes 4-65g yeast150ml warm water225g strong white bread flour25g sugar For the filling1 garlic clove25mm fresh ginger1 tbsp dark maple syrup1 tbsp dark soy sauce1 tbsp sesame oil1 tsp chilli sauce (I use sriracha)200g firm tofu (cut into slices and pressed for 15 minutes) To serveMayonnaiseFresh corianderSriracha or fresh chilli, finely sliced  Colonial Cravings’ bao buns: fold each oval piece of dough in half over a piece of greaseproof paper to create a taco shape. Photograph: Colonial Cravings for the Guardian1 Add the yeast to the water and set it aside for 1-2 minutes. Whisk together the flour and sugar in a large mixing bowl and then mix in the water to form a soft dough. If it’s a little dry add a touch more water, a little sticky add a tiny bit more flour. Turn the dough out on to a lightly floured surface and knead it for about 10 minutes, or until it becomes soft, smooth and stretchy.2 Clean the mixing bowl and lightly oil it before returning the dough to the bowl and covering it with clingfilm. Pop the bowl in a warm place and leave the dough for about an hour to double in size.3 Meanwhile, grate the garlic and ginger and combine it with the maple syrup, soy sauce, sesame oil and chilli sauce in a baking dish. Cut the tofu into triangles and toss them in the marinade. Leave for 30 minutes to soak up all the flavours.4 When the dough has risen, knock it back a little, then divide it into 4 or 6 pieces (depending on how big you want your buns). Shape the pieces into balls, then roll them out on a lightly floured surface into an oval shape. Cut squares of greaseproof paper and fold each in half diagonally to make a triangle. To shape your buns, put these on to the dough, then fold each oval in half over the paper to create a taco shape. Put them on a board or tray covered with greaseproof paper. Loosely cover them with oiled clingfilm. Leave them somewhere warm to rise for 30 minutes.5 Preheat your oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4 and bake the tofu for 25-30 minutes, turning occasionally, until the pieces are sticky and a little crisp around the edges.6 Cut up the greaseproof paper under the buns, so each one sits on an individual piece. Set a steamer over a pan of boiling water (a steel one works fine: you don’t have to have a bamboo one) and steam the buns in batches for about 8 minutes, or until the dough is cooked through and the buns are puffy.7 To serve, spread the inside of the buns with a generous amount of mayo, and fill with a couple of wedges of the tofu. Add a generous garnish of fresh coriander and top with a squeeze of sriracha or a little fresh red chilli.Vietnamese lemongrass and chilli tofuRachel Kelly uses Clean Bean Co tofu to make this, and if you live or work in London, you should track some down. It’s a prime, local example of how good tofu can be, and particularly delicious with these simple flavours.Serves 4300g block of firm tofuJuice of 1 limeLight soy sauce, to taste2 fat red chillies, deseeded and finely chopped2 lemongrass stalks, finely chopped2 garlic cloves, finely choppedSaltVegetable oil, for frying1 Boil and press the tofu as described in the introduction at the beginning, then cut into 2cm cubes.2 Make the dip by combining the lime juice with 2 tsp soy sauce. Taste, add more soy if you like, and set aside.3 Combine the chillies, lemongrass and garlic into a rough paste by blitzing in a food processor along with ½ tsp salt.4 Gently toss the tofu in this mixture. Set aside for an hour to allow the flavours to develop.5 Heat vegetable oil (about 2cm deep) in a large frying pan. Brush off any excess marinade and gently fry the tofu for about 10 minutes, or until lightly browned all over and crisp. Drain on kitchen paper and keep warm.6 Heat 1 tbsp vegetable oil in a small frying pan and quickly fry the remaining marinade mixture. Pour over the warm tofu and serve immediately with the dipping sauce.After four years and roughly 1100 recipes swapped, Readers’ Recipe Swap comes to a close next week. Thanks to everyone who has contributed over the years. But watch this space for more great recipes and ideas from Cook! 