Joelle Herr can’t remember a time when she wasn’t over the moon about books. After spending 20 years working in publishing, she quietly unlocked the door and put up the “open” sign at Her Bookshop in East Nashville, Tennessee in July 2016. Although fantasies of having her own bookstore date back to her childhood, if you had asked Herr even a year ago whether she thought she’d actually do it, she would have said no way. But in April 2015, a fantastic convergence of opportunity, inspiration, and courage led her to decide to take the leap and give it a go. Shortly after Her Bookshop’s opening, a bookish preteen came in by herself and spent half an hour looking around the shop. She ran home to get more money so she could buy two books — a perfect first sale.What’s your favourite section of the store?Joelle Herr (owner): That’s like asking which of my pets is my favorite! I suppose it would be the literature section. It — like all of the sections — is quite small, and so I try very hard to fill it with the unexpected. You’ll find Penguin Portables and Great Ideas, the Melville House Last Interview series, the New Yorker decade anthologies (very excited about the upcoming 1960s one), trusted classics from the New York Review of Books, books about books and writers (think: Everybody Behaves Badly by Lesley M. M. Blume and The Bad-Ass Librarians of Timbuktu by Joshua Hammer), and some of my favourite classics, like A Confederacy of Dunces by John Kennedy Toole, Flannery O’Connor’s stories, and one of the books that was my siren call to a career in publishing, The Best of Everything by Rona Jaffe. One other thing about this section is that I don’t necessarily reorder titles when I sell them. I like the idea of keeping it fresh.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Literary HubIf you had infinite space what would you add?Joelle: More of everything! And perhaps some paper products (cards, notebooks), pens, and pencils. I’m a sucker for anything gorgeously letter-pressed. Also, long live snail mail.What do you do better than any other bookstore?Joelle: I’m not sure if it’s necessarily better, but I think what’s unique about Her Bookshop is its focus on illustrated and gift books — the types of books that I helped create as an editor at such publishers as Running Press, Workman, and Sterling. One of my missions as a shop owner is to fill the store with “stunners” — books that’ll catch your eye from afar and make you cross the room to pick up. That said, we have way more than just high-end (read: pricey) coffee-table books. I’d say that more than half of the books in the store are under $25 (£20). My goal is to always carry books across a variety of topics and at a wide range of price points.Who’s your favourite regular?Joelle: Each and every person who comes in and oohs and ahhs about the shop. The ones who look around and say they want one of everything. The ones who spend an hour or longer browsing. They’re all my favourites.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Literary HubWhat’s your earliest/best memory about visiting a bookstore as a child?Joelle: There was an independent in Franklin, Tennessee (where I grew up), called Lori’s Bookstore. It was right in the center of town and just so cozy and full of books. Going there was such a treat, and I remember thinking how lucky Lori must be, to have her own bookstore.If you weren’t running or working at a bookstore, what would you be doing?Joelle: My previous life seems like such a long time ago. But no doubt, I would still be freelance editing and writing.What’s been the biggest surprise about running a bookstore?Joelle: This may sound like an odd response, but just how much I’m enjoying it. I am an awkward and shy introvert to the core, and I was a little worried about the all-day socializing that running a shop would entail. But it has been absolutely amazing. Book lovers are the warmest, most wonderful people, and I am so unbelievably appreciative of their immense support. The whole experience has been truly life changing in the best possible way.The staff shelfWhat is Joelle reading?Envelope Poems by Emily Dickinson (2016): “Stark in its design, this compact book features photographs of the poems Dickinson hand-wrote on the fronts, backs, and insides of envelopes. Transcriptions are included for those who can’t make out the handwriting. Never have scraps of paper been so utterly beautiful or goose bumps–inducing.”The Haunting of Hill House by Shirley Jackson (1959): “This is one of my all-time favourite books, first read when I was a teen. So, when I came across this fabulously creepy (and tactile!) edition, which features an introduction by horror maestro Guillermo del Toro (Pan’s Labyrinth), there was no question I would be carrying it in my shop, along with several other books in the visually arresting series.”The Best of McSweeney’s Internet Tendency (2014), edited by Chris Monks and John Warner (): “I like to think of McSweeney’s as the thinking person’s Onion, so a collection of its most ingenious, LOL-inducing, don’t-read-with-a-full-bladder articles from the likes of Michael Ian Black, Jessie Eisenberg, Ellie Kemper, and other comedic geniuses? Yes, please!”