There were few good things about growing up in the western suburbs of Sydney. In summer, the concrete and bush would soak in the sun and the heat would linger without relief. No sea breeze or calming southerly; just a packed crowd at Parra pools elbowing in line for the diving boards. Entertainment by way of box-walled Westfields dotting the expanses of neighbourhoods like watering holes. RSLs, bowlos, acres of partitioned grassland. Repeat.As children, we rode bikes to cover the sprawling pavement, as kids ought to do. As adults, we cruised listlessly as grown adults ought not. For us, kids from western Sydney, our place has always affected our movement. The idea itself – that people from western Sydney are lesser than those from the eastern and northern suburbs – is one that has been carefully danced around for as long as I can remember. You can’t say it, but a casual aside every now and then is allowed, if not encouraged. When I was younger, it came from my aunts and uncles. Now, as an adult, it’s enduring jokes from co-workers.Culture goes west: could Parramatta really become 'Australia's next great city'? When you meet someone from Sydney they’ll ask you where you’re from and where you were educated. They need to place you first, and then decide whether they’ll keep speaking to you. In my case, if you hail from Parramatta, were educated at Western Sydney University and have the audacity to go drinking in Bondi, people find it appropriate to scoff and walk away. Just last week, when the Newtown filmmaker Adam St John made headlines for refusing to show his work in the “middle of nowhere”, I was annoyed but not surprised. I wasn’t even surprised that Cate Blanchett signed a high-profile petition to keep the Powerhouse Museum from moving to Parramatta. The idea that we have of Australia, the one that is depicted on our screens, is not evident in western Sydney. There’s not a beach in sight, and the people look different. As western Sydney local and filmmaker Guido Gonzalez put it: “Where in our media do you see what you see by walking down a main street in Cabramatta, Liverpool or Parramatta?” James Arvanitakis, sociology professor at Western Sydney University, acknowledged on his blog that the region “has always had to deal with being considered as Sydney’s ‘other’ ”. While this is true of many metropolitan and suburban divides, it seems that in Sydney’s case the divide is written into our narrative. It’s not a gradual fade from terraces to backyards, but a stark line. Our postcode problem has created a class divide so great that it threatens to determine our potential.  Our postcode problem has created a class divide so great that it threatens to determine our potentialWestern Sydney is the geographical heart of Sydney and comprises 2.1 million Australians within the confines of its hotly debated geographical lines. (I say “hotly debated” because the people who live at the edges of these lines are quick to clarify that they’re not within them. Always be wary of a person who tells you they’re “from the north west”.) The region is also the country’s most ethnically diverse, with migrants hailing from 72 countries, and 43% of residents speaking a language other than English at home. But actual facts about western Sydney have always been clouded by its reputation for crime and economic disadvantage. In her 2012 essay examining how community arts could change perceptions of the city’s west, Christina Ho found: “Traditionally, Sydney’s western suburbs have been associated with all the markers of poverty and disadvantage, and a distinct lack of cultural sophistication … More recently, as western Sydney has become increasingly multicultural, the stereotypes have focused more on ‘ethnic crime’ and immigrant ‘ghettoes’.”To understand the depth of how the region has been portrayed, it’s interesting to look at where that portrayal is coming from. There’s a widely acknowledged “bubble” of media, marketing and entertainment practitioners in Sydney city and closely surrounding areas. In 2013, Adshel conducted a study that found 76% of Sydney media agency professionals have never even been to Parramatta. Untold stories: western Sydney theatre companies put diversity at centre stage As Ho explores in her essay, there are a variety of initiatives that has been trying to turn this stigma around for years. Places like Information and Cultural Exchange (Ice) and more recently Sweatshop: Western Sydney Literacy Movement have worked tirelessly to infuse the region with arts education initiatives. The Bankstown Poetry Slam, the largest of its kind in the country, was created by western Sydney students Sara Mansour and Ahmad Al-Rady, who were sick of having to go to the city for every cultural event. And community theatres stretching from Campbelltown to Holroyd put on regular shows to regular crowds. Trying to stop the move of the Powerhouse and Tropfest to Parramatta re-instils this idea that western Sydney doesn’t appreciate culture and, by extension, the people don’t either. And don’t deserve to. In Overland, Peter Polites from the Sweatshop initiative wrote about about western Sydney and the ways in which children are brought up to seek opportunity according to their self worth and their sense of entitlement. Polites recalls his own parents trying to steer him away from the arts field, encouraging him to take up an apprenticeship because he would “gain more economically”. It wasn’t until he attended Sydney College of the Arts that he understood the gravity of the default position he found himself in: “I came to understand that there were systemic gaps between the world in which my family lived and the world in which some of my friends lived.” It’s even reflected in the statistics: residents living in the greater west are 10% less likely to have a bachelor degree than those who don’t.When the controversial Struggle Street documentary aired mid last year, the ABC spoke to long-time western Sydney residents who have had to fake their postcode on their résumé just to get a job. There are residents who have admitted to moving suburbs to give their children a chance at a more illustrious future. It’s disheartening to remember that this is all in the same city.I’ve felt this elitism very viscerally. I’ve always felt like a phoney or an outcast at inner-city arts events. Even working in a creative field, I feel the ceiling of potential creep lower whenever I discover yet another successful media professional hailing from the east or north shore. So many times I’ve considered how much easier it would be to stay in my place, within the box that the reputation of my postcode has created for me and others like me. People who hail from Sydney’s west are well honed in self-deprecation. It feels like a talent we’re born with. We’re the first to make a joke about a stabbing in our area or the lack of things to do, but that’s only because we know that at any minute someone else will.