Major authors including Monica Ali, William Boyd and Marina Lewycka are lining up to contribute writing to a new crowdfunded anthology which aims to counter the anti-refugee rhetoric in the media.A Country of Refuge will collect fiction, poetry and memoir from bestselling names also including Sebastian Barry, Ruth Padel, Hanif Kureishi, Amanda Craig and Elaine Feinstein. Editor Lucy Popescu, an author and former director of English PEN’s Writers in Prison Committee, is expecting the eventual list of contributors to number at least 25.The collection aims to use literature to “change people’s perspectives about what it is to be a refugee, where they are coming from and what they are fleeing”, said Popescu. It will be published by crowdfunding press Unbound, which is currently seeking the necessary reader contributions.Patrick Ness leads fundraising drive to aid refugees Popescu was inspired to put the anthology together after learning of Schindler’s Ark author Thomas Keneally and Rosie Scott’s 2013 Australian version, A Country Too Far, which drew together writers from Les Murray to Christos Tsiolkas. Its aim was to address “the dispossessed, bringing a whole new perspective of depth and truthfulness to what has become a fraught, distorted war of words”, according to its Australian publisher, Penguin.She and her agent approached mainstream publishers, and smaller presses, with the idea, but “none would take it”, she said. “They said it wouldn’t sell”.“So I’m using crowdfunding to get the book out there,” said Popescu, who after working with Unbound says she will be able to pay her contributors, with any profits she makes to be “ploughed back into getting the book out there to schools and colleges and on tours”.Lewycka, author of A Short History of Tractors in Ukrainian, who came to the UK in 1947 with her parents, is among the authors committed. “I’m contributing to this anthology because I’m so concerned about the way we keep women and children in detention for quite a long time in unacceptable and cruel and inhumane conditions,” she said. “The way we treat migrants isn’t so much about what we want for them but about what sort of people we want to be.”Popescu’s description of the book on Unbound says it is “intended to directly challenge the negative press given to those seeking a safe haven on these shores, as well as serving as a testament to the strength of the human spirit”, with writers “uniquely placed to challenge preconceived ideas and stereotypes, because of their understanding of the power of words and ability to articulate truths”.“I’ve done refugee anthologies before, but my feeling is that they are preaching to the converted,” said Popescu. “I’m trying here to reach the Daily Mail reader, who might be a fan of, say, William Boyd because he’s written James Bond.”A host of bestselling writers have also rushed to join the young adult author Patrick Ness’s fundraiser for Save the Children and the Syrian refugees. Launched yesterday by Ness, who wrote that he would match all funds raised up to £10,000 because “I’m tired of just tweeting my despair about the current refugee crisis that the UK government is responding to with inhumane feebleness”, the total raised is now at almost £200,000, with writers including Marian Keyes, David Nicholls, Francesca Simon, Rosamund Lupton, John Green and Jojo Moyes all pledging further £10,000 contributions.“So what started out as a small thing has exploded. I offered to match up to £10,000 and you guys smashed that in under two hours,” wrote Ness. “This is all so amazing, I’ve basically spent 24 hours a bit weepy. THANK YOU ALL SO MUCH!!! KEEP IT GOING!!!”