As 49% of the nation reels in the wake of the election of Donald Trump, people around the world are struggling to figure out what’s next. As protesters take to the streets, climate scientists issue dire warnings, and immigrants face down fears of deportation, some people are wondering whether the states will truly ever be united again.While many in the US and around the world fear the worst, taking to bed and streaming Netflix while drinking wine isn’t a particularly effective way forward for the country. For guidance on how to move past anxiety, pain, and depression, we asked those best equipped at knowing how to laugh in the face of pain and tragedy: comedians. Aparna Nancherla: ‘I’m having a rumspringa’   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest While I am not 100% sold on the term “activating”, I am still going to use it. I am going to activate my sense of social responsibility and remember that everyone has their own unique struggle, and to have compassion before vitriol. I am not Amish, but if I may co-opt their term for merely this sentence, I may decide this is the time for my global rumspringa. Time to finally see Iceland or live in a Spanish treehouse!We have to move forward no matter what because that is the nature of political cycles. I think it’s in our best interest to process all our emotions as they come and then remember that positive change doesn’t just happen every four years, it happens all the time. And this isn’t a dissolution, it’s just a roadblock. Protest, resolve, and evolution are as vital a part of democracy as compromise and precedent. For awhile, I will be replaying clips from the Obamas simply to exist in a bubbling hot tub of denial. Once I move past that, I’ll probably download seven more guided meditation apps and commit to more flax in my diet. It’s inevitably going to be bumpy so might as well keep both ends of my body on track.Cameron Esposito: ‘I have to get back out there’    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I have little wisdom to share today. It feels dark. I’m scared. What I do know is that I have a voice and a platform and so many others whose lives will be affected by this election do not. So, though today is a low, I have to get back out there. I chose my job because I wanted to make the world a safer place. And starting tomorrow (I’m allowing myself a day), I will get back to work. Please, when you are able: join me.Kyle Kinane: ‘Don’t fall for the same old shit’    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The only answer I have is for me to get back to work. I can’t tell anyone else how to deal with it. I’m not black or gay or a woman and I don’t know the fear in their hearts after something like this. I can read all the articles about how it’s poor whites who voted him in because they’re in ravaged rural blue-collar communities and they didn’t see any change in the last eight years so they were going to vote Republican no matter what.How about holding the media and news companies accountable for reporting on non-issues? How about fuck the Democrats in the first place for every swaying the nomination away from Bernie? My answer for getting over all this? Maybe don’t fall for the same old shit. News outlets can go to hell.How can we laugh again? We will, because we always will. I laughed at jokes about 9/11 on 9/13. We’ll be fine. Comedy is indestructible. You can’t destroy it. Just like a war on terror. You can’t destroy a concept or a feeling. Send this to them. Rah-rah, look how righteous I am. I have to go tell jokes in Times fucking Square tonight. Back to work.Nathan Brannon: ‘Stand for those who don’t have a voice’    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I think being “real” about the situation is the first step. It’s totally understandable to feel dread right now, but more important to not let that dread incapacitate you. Occupy your mind with being vigilant of the oppression around you. It has become so easy to justify oppression in our country, and we need to be ready to stand for those who don’t have much of a voice right now. There are a lot of citizens nervous and scared right now. I feel like helping in whatever way you can to comfort, and strengthen them, will also help yourself to cope. Trying to find ways that make it easier for us all to listen to each other is a fantastic endeavor right now.One way to move forward that I am personally trying is to inject more logical thinking into my comedy material. It seems like, as a country right now, we are leaning more on emotional response and less on logic to make our decisions. Comedy is great because it can help condition people to think more critically about things without it coming off as forced. Comedy can disarm and open people up to new ways of thinking (Chris Rock and his “tax bullets” idea, for example). Doesn’t seem like there are any easy answers to fixing all this right now, but weed is more legal now. So roll a blunt, grab your “vision board” materials, and look to the future.Emily Heller: ‘We must be vigilant’   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Comedians are surviving this election the way everyone else is, only perhaps, a little bit easier. Don’t get me wrong: this is, quite possibly, the most disastrous thing that has happened to me in my entire life. My anxiety is so bad I’m, like, physically incapable of being depressed. I got up and took a hike this morning. Who am I? It wasn’t because I wanted to feel good. It was because I literally wanted to stomp on something as hard as I could and I decided the thing I was going to stomp on was PLANET EARTH. I would die to change this outcome if I could. Truly. I have no unfinished business on this planet. I’ve been on TV, I’ve had some great sex, I did mushrooms, I saw the Mona Lisa. That being said, of all the feelings I’ve had today – panic, fear, anger, humiliation, guilt, anxiety, despair – one thing I’m NOT feeling is writer’s block. It’s not a silver lining, it’s just a fact. I don’t take for granted that in this way, I am luckier than the other people living through this nightmare. I get to make jokes and pound my fist and get retweets and faves because I’m a comedian. And because I’m a straight, white, debt-free person who was born in this country, there’s not much of a chance this presidency will affect me even with even a fraction of the force with which it’s going to devastate everyone else. I have no advice. I know we need to fight this. And I know we need to hang on to whatever feelings we have now that feel like motivation, like momentum. Because if we’re going to stop this piece of garbage from treating our country the way he treats everyone else who has ever crossed his path, we’re going to need to be vigilant for a long, long time.Dhaya Lakshminarayanan: ‘We need kindness and empathy’    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest My job is to allow people to feel like they’re moving forward by being able to laugh about difficulty or take a break from the real world by laughing for a while. Until I can think of something else more worthwhile I will keep doing this. I was lucky enough to perform in San Quentin prison for an all-male mostly men of color audience this year. It was one of the best shows I have done because something special was going on in that room that wasn’t just about audience and a comedian. It was about understanding people different from you and knowing that fear might creep up but staying open is essential. These men are living in actual prison and many of them have already paid their debt to society but cannot be paroled for whatever reason. And they find ways to move forward behind bars with no freedoms. I felt it in the kindness that they showed me and how one of the prisoners offered to pray for my father, who was going to have surgery at the time. I am of a different faith than that prisoner but during that moment I accepted whatever prayers from whatever religion because what was behind that was kindness. And moving forward this kindness and empathy is going to feel very hard. But this is part of getting things done in a country which feels like not your own suddenly.Sabrina Jalees: ‘Get active – or high’    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Any survival tips for facing down a Trump presidency? I’d like to quote Melania Trump for this one: ‘When they go low, we go high.’ Or if you live in a state that’s legalized weed: ‘When they go low, we get high.’ For real, I think this is all a big shocking sign that we need to do more for each other, show understanding for one another, join forces with allies and help curate the world we want to live in. As for how to move forward, we need to get active. Some friends and I put together a last-minute show/vigil called Nasty Women. We raised $2,200 for the Downtown LA Women’s Center and it felt amazing. We’re going to keep doing them. Becoming active in the parts of the world you see as needing empowerment is a beam of light at the end of what feels like a dark tunnel.Ryan Reiss: ‘I just got material for the next four years’    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Trump is a big orange bug zapper of contention, and he just gave me material for the next four years. He can’t do anything that you don’t want to make fun of. He’s a caricature, a clown, a cartoon. Don’t take it so seriously. You can’t do anything about it. Invest in spray tan and learn Russian! But, more seriously, this question of ‘How do we move forward’ was posed after 9/11. That was a serious situation. It was catastrophic. People died. That was a real where-do-we-go-from-here moment. This sucks. It’s buffoonery. But we go forward. We laugh at it and we hope he doesn’t fuck things up too badly.Jared Logan: ‘It’s time to listen to women and people of color’   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Advice on moving forward: I’d say for straight white male comedians it’s time to stop giving advice and start listening to women and LGBTQ people and people of color. Instead of jumping to figure out my “hot take”, I’m going to listen and read and watch and try to be ready next time. I’m so ashamed this caught me off-guard.Karinda Dobbins: ‘Love will keep me going’    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I survived election night because I was on a show in Oakland with four wonderful female comedians and we got to vent on stage and afterwards comfort each other. We got to convey every emotion we were experiencing in the moment which is what I hope everyone is doing. You have to get your feelings out, process them and move to action. You have to turn those feelings into quantifiable steps to support organizations that will help further your vision of what America should be. This has been a very nasty election cycle, I felt like I needed a shower. I had a sleepless night on November 8, but this morning I got up, hugged my daughter, talked to my mom and told her I loved her and then I realized love is what will keep me going. I need love to fight hate.Seth Herzog, resident comic, The Tonight Show: ‘Comedy has never been more important’   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest How do we move forward? Truthfully, comedy has never been more important. I have a feeling there will be some new policies suppressing critical voices in the next year or so, and if not a direct policy at least a threat of violence (which is already happening). So comedians are going to play an important role, in tweaking, prodding and exposing the trunk of hypocrisy and rights violations that will be “unboxed” in the few years. I’m sure Donald will make it easy in most cases, but in some of the more important issues we will have to look deeper into what’s really going on. So our jobs just became a bit more important, not only to brighten the spirits of those who need it, and to make sense of what’s going on, but also to make sure voices of dissension and criticism are heard. If the press gets curtailed in how they can report on government, or if we aren’t allowed to protest any more, comedy (and music) will be our only resort. Also, it seems to be the main outlet where a lot of the country gets their news from anyway. If you look at history, under a Republican presidency, the economy tanks and the arts thrive.Irene Tu: ‘Read up on history and take self-defense classes’    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I’m going to spend the next couple months reading, taking self-defense classes, and writing a ton of jokes. We can’t back down so you better bet I’m going to be loud and queer (and funny) as fuck the next four years. Find and stick together with your community (especially women, queers, and people of color). Read up on history because the revolution or the second world war is coming … And I will definitely keep making fun of Trump because only thinking of him as a giant orange Cheeto will make you feel better that such an unqualified man is our president. We have to listen to one another and love each other. But also stand up for yourself and know that progress takes time and we need to keep fighting to get there. As a country, just please don’t self-destruct before the apocalypse comes.