Working from home earlier this week, I was jonesing for ice-cream. Not the low-quality swill you can buy from those trucks with the stab-me-in-the-eardrum-already jingles, the good stuff. The fattening stuff. This being New York City, where dreams are made of, I had two pints of Ben & Jerry’s delivered. It’s the New Yorkest thing I’ve ever done.Upside down ice cream cone: just a trend for lazy eaters or conveniently crunchy? But I’m far from the only one enduring summer in the city by dreaming about ice-cream. For the month of August, a studio space across from the Whitney Museum has been transformed into the Museum of Ice Cream, realizing 24-year-old Maryellis Bunn’s childhood dream to swim in a pool of rainbow sprinkles. She watched reporters flock through the preview day of her “passion project” with youthful detachment, perched on ice-cream truck wedge heels, her iPhone wrapped in an ice-cream-themed case. Her chill is justified: the museum opens on Friday, and tickets are already sold out.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The sprinkle pool. Photograph: Bebeto Matthews/APIf you’re one of the lucky ticket-holders, you’re in for an odd treat that evokes Willy Wonka’s Chocolate Factory in more than just its exclusivity – the six-room experience is a sensory delight that looks like a hipster paradise – all the wall art is selfie-friendly, and the sprinkle pool has a mirror hanging above it. And the Museum of Ice Cream tastes like the summers that those Williamsburg offspring undoubtedly enjoy – cloyingly sweet but all organic.I was handed my first dish of ice-cream immediately upon entering, a scoop of Brooklyn-based Blue Marble organic vanilla covered with Froot Loops and marshmallows (the ice-cream purveyor changes about weekly, but they’re all of the small-batch, locally made variety). We couldn’t proceed with it in-hand, so I flirted with brain freeze to enter the cone room, where a “food futurist” was concocting sugary edible balloons complete with a voice-altering breath of helium.“Say your favorite ice-cream flavor!” a staffer implored as I inhaled.“Black raspberry,” chipmunk-me said with a delighted laugh of surprise. Next came the scoop room where, we were told, an attempt was under way to build the world’s biggest ice-cream sundae. The scoops we added to a giant goblet were room temperature and looked a bit pasty – it had an “enzyme” that kept it from melting, we were told by the room’s jovial host, but was still edible (I didn’t test the assertion).       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The chocolate chamber. Photograph: Bebeto Matthews/APThrough cocoa-brown curtains near the goblet, the chocolate room awaited. It was basically a chocolate womb – a small, warm, fragrant enclosure with a pallet to lie on and gaze at the walls, where swirling, oozing images of chocolate looped along to what sounded like a Muzakified Willy Wonka score. We helped ourselves to towering serving bowls of dark-chocolate Dove (one of many sponsors listed by the exit) and waited for the piece de resistance to clear.And finally, there it was: 11,000lbs of plastic bits whimsically evoking rainbow sprinkles – “Our sprinkle hose broke, so it’s hand filled,” someone said to the press-preview scrum. They filled a pool, three feet deep and vast enough to sprawl in, while leaving space for Bunn’s co-creator, Manish Vora, to toss an inflatable ball to the “lifeguard” on duty. Add an ice-cream cocktail and I’d have been content to perch on the pool’s edge for hours, watching fellow loungers sift the sprinkles through their fingers.Instead, on to the next room, where a staff member offered each person walking through a “miracle berry” candy which, she promised in a way that felt way too dystopian, would make sour and sweet flavors reverse. A row of soft-serve cones garnished with lemon slices and restocked by disembodied hands sat at the ready to test the claim.An ice-cream, a helium gulp and some chocolate bites in, I went for it. The candy, made with a berry from west Africa, made the lemons taste sweet. I savored them as I walked toward the exit, past the ice-cream sandwich swing and ice-cream scoop-shaped see-saw, out into a blast of summer heat that the taste of too much sugar and just enough nostalgia mitigated, if only for a moment.