Peter Capaldi has announced that the 2017 Christmas special will be his last episode as Doctor Who in a statement that described the role as “cosmic”. Here, we look at readers’ responses to the news. You can click to expand the conversation and get involved yourself.‘It’s a shame his tenure coincided with some truly awful writing’   imperium3 30 January 2017 10:56pmCapaldi is an excellent Doctor, arguably the best of the reboot era. It's a shame that his tenure has coincided with some truly awful writing which rarely gave him the chance to shine.‘I’ll be very sorry to see him go’   ID056000 30 January 2017 11:08pmCapaldi has been a *superb* Doctor and I'll be very sorry to see him go. The quality of the writing has varied over the course of his tenure, but he's certainly made the most of what he was given. Feel like watching Heaven Sent again now. What an episode... ‘Let’s hope it’s a good send-off!’   wilfreduk 31 January 2017 8:06amI will be rather sad to see him go, he's taken an awfully long time to settle into the role but he was definitely making it his own and I was finding him to be very watchable. Despite the writers over indulgences in the life and times of Clara and her wants and needs, making the whole thing feel rather more like a spin-off at times, Capaldi shone whenever he was on screen, and he was becoming a bit more Tom Baker in his approach, which I was loving.Of course there's still a whole series to go as yet and let's hope it's a good send off!I have to say after the huge success of Michelle Gomez as the Master I'd love to see them give a girl a go at the lead role now. Tamsin Greig would be my pick, I could definitely see her threatening to reverse a few neutron flows with her sonic screwdriver.‘They’ve wasted their opportunity with Mr Capaldi’   Stieve 30 January 2017 11:13pmI agree with many of the comments below. Capaldi is right for the role of The Doctor, but it seems almost that the writing and/or settings are too small for him. Danny Pink was the most pathetic character in the show's entire history! I've not seen all of the present series, but I do think they've wasted their opportunity with Mr Capaldi who can really pull off both the silliness and the profoundity.‘The show needs to move away from the self-referential fanboy joyride’   jae426 30 January 2017 11:00pmProbably wise. The show needs something of a reboot to move it away from the overly self-referential clever-clever fanboy joyride and rediscover the days when it was watched by more than twice as many people because it was actually fun rather than inaccessibly over complicated.(Fanboys, this is your cue to point out that five or six million people are really just watching it on iPlayer instead, just like you always do...)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Steven Moffat also leaves the show at the end of 2017. Photograph: Jon Pountney/BBC/PA‘It has warped into a shallow parody of itself under Moffat’   FLeghorn 30 January 2017 11:00pmit's time to put the show away for a while. It has warped into a shallow parody of itself under Moffat and utterly lost its way.Think back to when it was re-invented with C Ecclestone as the Dr, and then to where it's ended up now, its not a slight on Capaldi, more a criticism of the way (like Sherlock) its gone up its own backside creatively.‘The BBC tried to move it from a kids and adult spot to evening drama time … That was a mistake’   Ian Mather 31 January 2017 8:29amHe's been a good doctor. When I was a kid, the doctor was always an older man, Jon Pertwee, Tom Baker etc so as much as I enjoyed recent doctors, my nagging feeling that he should be a mature character was comforted with Mr Capaldi. I agree with him that The BBC tried to move it from a kids and adult spot to evening drama time and that was a mistake. It also encouraged complicated sub plots and alienated the kids, especially those of us in middle age....Hopefully it can move forward. The guest writers was a success but keep a tight set of rules eh?‘[He was] a welcome relief from the silliness of Matt Smith’   Geordiemartin 31 January 2017 4:36amPeter Capaldi reminded me of the Doctors of the earlier series. A welcome relief from the silliness of Matt Smith.But ultimately the scripts and story lines have been awful and there has been an over-reliance on the Daleks in general during the recent incantations.‘Nothing must remain of Steven Moffat’s Doctor Who by the end of this calendar year’   TomBakerIsGod 31 January 2017 9:06amI approve of Peter Capaldi's exeunt omnes. Nothing must remain of Steven Moffat's Doctor Who by the end of this calendar year. Everyone must be exterminated and every remaining Krynoid burnt. Only a re-boot of the Whoniverse is acceptable now. Doctor Who must be fully re-stored as British science fiction. The gimmicky, plot holes, continuity issues, telly celeb guest stars, weak furniture music and chewing of the scenery by the cast must all end this year, and the Christmas specials must be cancelled along with the excessive number of Doctor Who toys present within the show's merchandising. Reboot and replace is the only way forward for contemporary Doctor Who today.‘The doctor is dead. Long live the doctor’   highviewboo 30 January 2017 10:56pmGoodbye, sweetie. He *has* been great, I've enjoyed someone irascible with little romantic possibility, less snogging than 10 or 11 and I've liked that...but generally the scripts have been very poor, Clara was too centre stage and moffats inability to write women as other than a feisty homogenous mass really started to grate after a while. I hope he gets a fitting send off.The doctor is dead. Long live the doctor.