Energy is vital for our everyday needs, it is one of the largest household costs, it is core to our economic recovery – but rarely has it been the focus of political and media attention.Straight after the 2010 election, David Cameron came to the department of energy and climate change to set our mission. We had to deliver new investment to keep the lights on, we had to respond to consumers' concerns about prices and, of course, we had to be the greenest government ever.It was a mission that showed the prime minister "got" energy. He knew that you can't have energy security without renewables, that you can't keep the lights on without a step change in investment, but that there are limits to what consumers would, or could, pay. For the first time in years, the UK would have an energy policy.That meant getting away from the sterile debate that you were only pro-consumer if you were against the energy companies and vice versa. The reality is different. As old plants close, we need twice as much investment in replacement plants this decade as Labour achieved in the last. Drive investors away and in a few years supply won't meet demand, forcing prices up and businesses into shutdown.The government rightly acted to reduce demand with better insulation and the green deal. But that cannot help most people struggling to pay their bills today, so the prime minister is right that more needs to be done to get consumers the best deal.However, we should also use this moment for an honest debate about how we pay for our future energy needs. In recent years, UK electricity and gas prices have been some of the cheapest in the EU because we had an abundant supply of our own gas and because, frankly, not enough was being spent to build new power stations. So we have to catch up now for that failure to invest over many years.It also goes to the heart of decisions about what sources of energy we use.As a minister, I recognised the continuing need for gas. Indeed, I approved more gas power stations and encouraged more licence applications for the North Sea than any previous minister.But our future can't depend on gas alone. Shale gas can make a contribution (although not without community backlashes, I suspect), but cannot bring the UK the same benefits as in America, where consents are much easier and prices are kept artificially low by the lack of export facilities. As the International Energy Agency says, we may face a golden age for gas, but don't assume it will be cheap. Last year's energy price rises owed more to rising global wholesale gas prices than anything else, so betting the farm on shale brings serious risks of future price rises.Energy security can only be delivered with a mix of technologies. New nuclear helps to give energy independence. Renewables harness the exceptional resources of these islands. Carbon capture and storage creates long-term opportunities for coal and gas. But no single source is fully secure.Harnessing our low-carbon potential isn't just right environmentally, but it is a central plank of energy security. If the world's major oil and gas economies, such as Saudi Arabia and Norway, want to use low-carbon sources themselves, it has to be right for us too.But there isn't much time left. Decisions on where to invest are being made now. Uncertainty and hostility would undermine the UK's ability to secure the jobs and economic benefits from the supply chain for those new power plants. And if those companies walk away from the UK, it is a permanent loss and we all pay the price.The prime minister set a clear energy strategy two years ago. Much has been done to deliver the right mechanisms. This is our chance for a win-win-win outcome, an outcome that is good for energy security, for the environment and for consumers. Now we need to get on with it.Charles Hendry was minister of state for energy and climate change 2010-2012.