This week’s episode opens with the Namarrodor feasting on a veritable buffet of human ticker in an aged-care home. After a total absence last week, we’re teased with its menacing silhouette and then a glimpse of one slender, scaly leg tipped with frightful talons as it stalks towards its oblivious quarry.Inside the Zone, tensions between the Skin Mob and the Hairies continue to simmer. Instead of the fight ring though, the kiddies are now playing a game like Harpastum, which reminds me of the 80s sci-fi film Salute of the Jugger.Leaving the game, Waruu explains to his wife Nerida (Jada Alberts) that he intends to invite a television crew into the Zone to counter the propaganda campaign being waged by Mathews – but Nerida astutely suggests that the multiple killings at the old-aged home have already escalated the situation beyond soft-power mechanisms like perception. “They’re calling it a massacre,” she says, “That’s the language of war.” Nerida obviously has the smarts in this partnership; Waruu’s idealism (or is it his obsessive narcissism?) repeatedly blinds him to the complex dangers of stuff like the pro-CA rally amassing at the gates. When Nerida implores him to convince Koen to help, he even remains too resentful of half-bro to consider it. At the checkpoint he instead calls Slade to finalise the film crew visit, then wears an egg for his arrogance.There’s an unmistakable charge against patriarchal paradigms running through episode four. Inside the Zone, Uncle Max discourages Latani from fight training; in the bar, Ash isn’t allowed to touch the nulla nulla because she’s a woman (according to traditional lore practices); later, Waruu duplicitously questions Belinda’s ability to do her job because she is a female; while over at the brothel Mathews is doing his whole pelt-frotting, sexual exploitation thing.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Waruu (Rob Collins) with Nerida (Jada Alberts) – who obviously has the smarts in this partnership. Photograph: Lisa Tomasetti/ABCFor the past few days, government food trucks have been prevented from penetrating the Zone, so to speak. It’s obvious to Harry that minister Mathews is attempting to starve the Hairies out, so he goes to Waruu again. Fresh from an unsuccessful tilt at convincing Koen to step up to his responsibilities as a Cleverman, Waruu assures Harry that he’ll sort it out and heads off towards Mathews’ office to demand a meet with the minister. Meanwhile, Slade’s mysterious ark plan has progressed. Mad scientist Everick (Aileen Huynh) and the CA operative McIntyre are involved. They’re testing Hairy Juice – some sort of drug that replicates the superhuman abilities of the Hairies – on a human guinea pig named Jamie. They’re not entirely across the science yet, because Jamie instead cooks his innards with exertion during testing and dies suddenly, moments after thrashing a sprint cycling world record. So it’s back to the ol’ DNA–sequencer for Slade and co. With Kora now free range (and conducting her own empirical inquiries of pop culture and Newtonian physics) it’s Djukuru’s debilitated father Boondee (Tony Briggs) on the gurney and Everick, heedless to the suffering she causes, roughly swabbing away at his orifices. This is one reason why a shaved-down Djukuru can’t find his old man where he left him last.There’s more science being discussed at Slade’s palatial coastal estate, too. Charlotte is considering another attempt at IVF through a company called Ilithyia. They’ve developed an innovative process that involves spiking her egg with a supercharged mitochondria to aid the taking process, Dr Charlotte explains. The finer details actually remain under patent so she is unable to enlighten her husband when he curiously inquires where Ilithyia obtain their supercharged mitochondria from. Then he has one of those light-bulb epiphanies while watching Charlotte fry some very delicious-looking bacon. He rushes out to call Everick at the lab with some timely scientific suggestions that involve uncoupling inhibitors and something called Sestrum-2, and behold! The elusive Hairy Juice is perfected. It clearly works on a juiced-up mouse anyway, and purportedly on a chimpanzee too and that’s more than enough proofing for our megalomaniac Slade, who promptly plies himself with said concoction, slips into some active wear and takes off freerunning around Sydney’s affluent eastern suburbs.Elsewhere, Waruu has been snatched up by a sinister black sedan and secreted away to a CA black site for interrogation. McIntyre is involved, which surely implicates Slade too, right? Well, McIntyre has photos of last week’s detention facility breakout and he accuses Waruu of being a terrorist, but it’s still not enough to leverage Waruu into giving up the fugitive Hairies. Waruu informs McIntyre he has his own footage of the murder scene – and it doesn’t include anyone removing the guard’s heart and painting the walls with his blood.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   McIntyre accuses Waruu of being a terrorist. Photograph: Lisa Tomasetti/ABCInside the Zone, Belinda inadvertently ends up with Nerida as a fixer for her exposé on the pitiful conditions within the Hairy sector. Nerida knows all about her husband’s paramour and serves Belinda up to the wrathful Maliyan. But she can’t see it through, and duly intervenes to save the reporter. As does Latani, who then delivers a shrill commentary on the corrupted news values and practices of the media in Cleverman’s dystopian future.At the bar, McIntyre is holding Ash hostage in exchange for Kora, whom Slade needs to complete his Ark bizzo. Koen does his best to negotiate a clean swap, but Blair enters from behind and shoots McIntyre in the back. Ash is dragged to the ground under McIntyre’s collapsing weight and another live round is discharged. This time it’s Ash who has copped it, finally meeting the grisly fate Koen has envisaged for her since being “ordained” Cleverman. He pleads with Kora to now help him use his powers to restore Ash’s life, but the prognosis isn’t good as he rouses an upset Blair and a bewildered Kora to their feet and out of the bar to safety.Once again, this is an episode that contains many interwoven plot lines and thematic threads. This ambitious scope of the storytelling is the series’ real strength and continues to outweigh criticism of its production values. After all, we’ve been watching Doctor Who the same way for decades.