A high-heeled boot stepping out of a stolen red Ferrari into a muddy Emmerdale ditch means only one thing: Charity Dingle is back. Bow down to your queen, people of Hotten, for the indestructible conwoman is out of prison and refusing to keep a low profile. She also took her eyes off the road to adjust her lippy and ended up swerving off it. Ever resourceful, Charity turned to Cain and Moira to get her out of a tight spot. “It’s covered in fingerprints,” she sighed at the dodgy motor. “Have you got a hanky?”The Emmerdale helicopter crash: a new high for bizarre soap disasters She hadn’t been back five minutes and she was already flirting with Cain, calling him a “kinky sausage” while Moira was busy herding sheep. First on her to-do list was to try to sell baby Moses to Emma for 50 grand to scrape together the cash to buy The Woolpack, so that her other son Noah could get what he’s entitled to: free crisps every single day. Little Noah’s not the only one living the dream. Andy’s become the love god of the village, romping in the hay with Chrissie. Sadly, however, Laurel and Ashley’s wedding went wrong from the start. Ben the vicar was branded “a fox in a dog collar” by the hen party and mistaken for a stripper. They then got him blind drunk so that the only ceremony he could conduct the next day was a stagger to the bathroom. Bizarrely, Ashley’s ex, Harriet, had to step in and do the honours, but in the end the groom couldn’t even remember the wedding, having suffered a seizure at the altar.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sarah-Lou’s milking it in Coronation Street. Photograph: Joseph ScanlonSomewhere in the darkest recesses of every pregnant woman’s mind lurks a list of soap characters they wouldn’t want as a birthing partner. Shirley from EastEnders is on there. As is Kerry from Emmerdale. Phil Mitchell is strangely absent after that time he saved a newborn puppy’s life by giving it marf-to-marf. But Tracy Barlow from Coronation Street is always at the top.La Barlow would probably flog both baby and placenta as a BOGOF as soon as she’d cut the cord. So when gobby northern powerhouse Sarah-Lou went into soap labour five weeks early in Tracy’s flower emporium, Preston’s Petals, she was horrified to find herself with only Todd and The Barlow on hand. To make matters worse, eccentric fusspot Mary popped in for a conversation piece for her occasional table and ended up calling for towels and boiling water, ready to roll her sleeves up to locate the baby’s head.“All this shouting could be putting off potential customers,” shrieked Tracy as Todd flew into a blind panic. “Just hurry up before she has it in the half-price daffodils.” Can’t a girl dilate in peace? Not with Tracy telling horror stories. “I watched this documentary once about a woman in the desert and she had to bite through her own umbilical cord and soldier on,” she said.In true soap style, Sarah-Lou was braying and calling for an ambulance from the first twinge, but her troubles were only just beginning once she had the baby. Soon, all the interfering grandmothers descended. As dead babydaddy Callum’s mum turned up (still unaware her son is buried down Gail’s manhole), she was welcomed with three lots of extreme shade-face, expertly delivered by the new mum, her daughter-with-attitude Bethany and Todd, who’s on fire with sass at the moment.Gail, meanwhile, suggested the baby should be called Patrick. Yes, Pat Platt. Bethany had already come up with a list of names, including North West and Macklemore. Harry it is, then.If Sarah-Lou’s thinking of going on some kind of maternity leave from feistiness, Callum’s self-proclaimed BFF Gemma could easily step in. The girl’s a no-holds-barred horror, wearing her tightened topknot like a crown of evil. “Instead of slagging me off you want to try and spend a bit more time keeping your leggings on every time a fella so much as glances at you,” she told Sarah-Lou hours before she went into labour, before loudly putting in an order at the cafe. “Sausage butty. No brown sauce, I’m on a DI-ET.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Phil, when you hit the bottom, stop digging! Photograph: Kieron McCarronOh EastEnders, with your storylines as dark as the Cokers’ family business, can you offer nothing but doom and gloom? Vincent throttled Claudette for killing his dad, then she returned from the dead like a cockroach. Not that cockroaches wear red dresses while breaking the news to their daughter that Fatboy isn’t really DJing in Austria. Only the flirtation between Shirley and Phil offered any comedy. “I won’t bite,” slurred Phil as he offered Vinegar Knickers a place in his shower. “If you did I’d knock your teeth out,” she replied.They were twinkly-eyed as they reminisced about their dirty weekend in Eastbourne. How could Shirl cheat? She’s got Buster’s winkles back home. But Phil slid further down the slippery slope and, with a face like a naughty toddler and a cackle like Sid James, he went for a drunken joyride in a digger. Phil Mitchell’s Rock Bottom sounds like a tip for the 2.15 at Lingfield, but as he realised the pink wheelie suitcase buried beneath the rubble belonged to his runaway daughter Louise, he hit it hard.