Lena Dunham has joined a long line of stars who have spoken out publicly in support of Kesha after last Friday’s court ruling, in which a judge denied the singer’s request to be released from a recording contract with her producer Dr Luke, who Kesha claims physically and sexually assaulted her.In Tuesday’s edition of Lenny Letter, Dunham penned an essay entitled Why Kesha’s Case Is About More Than Kesha, writing: “When I saw the outcome of Kesha’s court case last Friday, I felt sick.”Public outcry may help free Kesha from contract with Dr Luke's label After detailing the case, Dunham wrote: “To be clear, Kesha’s case is about more than a pop star fighting for her freedom, or a $60m investment in a shiny commercial career. It’s about more than whether Kesha can strap on her cool leotards and make another album, free from a man who she says terrifies her.”She continued: “What’s happening to Kesha highlights the way that the American legal system continues to hurt women by failing to protect them from the men they identify as their abusers.”Dunham noted Kesha’s attorney’s assertion that Dr Luke, whose real name is Lukasz Sebastian Gottwald, could take revenge out of anger over the sexual assault accusations and make efforts to bury the singer’s subsequent albums, preventing her from profiting from her work.She also criticised Sony, which owns Gottwald’s Kemosabe Records, for its “horrifying” lack of perspective in the case.“The fact is, Kesha will never have a doctor’s note. She will never have a videotape that shows us that Gottwald threatened and shamed her, and she will never be able to prove, beyond the power of her testimony, that she is unsafe doing business with this man,” Dunham wrote. “And no, none of this was in her contract. But what man, what company endeavors to keep a woman saddled with someone who she says has caused her years of trauma, shame, and fear?”Since the outcome of Kesha’s case emerged on Friday, several prominent music industry individuals have come forth in outrage on behalf of the singer. Taylor Swift donated $250,000 to help Kesha with financial necessities. Other stars, such as Lady Gaga, Ariana Grande, Lorde, Demi Lovato and Kelly Clarkson, who worked with Gottwald on her hits like Since U Been Gone and Behind These Hazel Eyes, spoke out on Twitter as the #FreeKesha movement trended. Jack Antonoff, Bleachers frontman and Dunham’s boyfriend, tweeted at Kesha a “standing offer” to collaborate on a song and “then leak it for everyone”.Meanwhile, Dr Luke made his first public comments on the case on Monday, denying all the allegations on Twitter. Commending the public outcry about Kesha’s case, Dunham said the women speaking out for Kesha are proof that they are not scared of losing their work and reputations.“It wasn’t long ago that women in the public eye didn’t have a loose-enough leash to reach out and support one another, for fear of losing all they had worked so hard to create. Instead they quietly watched on their televisions, hoping they wouldn’t be next,” she wrote. “Those days are over. They are fucking done.”