In five wordsCultural hotspot of the ArcticSound of the city:When Rovaniemi citizens want to offer their foreign guests a true Lapland experience, they take them outside to enjoy the harmony of snow-muffled silence.When it’s completely tranquil and quiet, and the weather conditions are good, you can detect the mysterious sound of the Northern Lights – a natural light display that can be seen 200 nights a year in the skies of Finnish Lapland. The stories about whispers and crackling of Aurora Borealis have been told for centuries, but since there was no hard scientific evidence of the phenomenon, many people have taken the observations as old wives’ tales. In the last few years Finnish scientists have finally managed to confirm that the Northern Lights do cause human-like whispers, cat-like hissing and clapping sounds in lower parts of the atmosphere, which are detectable by human hearing. Best building      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The fjell-shaped Lappia House. Photograph: Emma KähkönenThe work of Alvar Aalto (1892-1976), a Finnish functionalist architect responsible for the post-war town plan, exemplifies Rovaniemi’s relationship with its hills and nature. The facade of fjell-shaped Lappia House, finished in 1975, might be as cold and grey as slushy snow, but Aalto’s simple choice of making the ridge of the roof mimic the fjells, saves the building from being dreary.Lappia House is home to the Theatre of Rovaniemi, a music school and broadcasting company. Together with Aalto-designed city library (pictured on the left above) and the town hall, it is the cultural and governmental centre. The institutions are surrounded by an outdoor exhibition of reindeer sculptures, that “roam” the field.… and the worst      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Shopping-centre parking in the centre of Rovaniemi. Photograph: Emma KähkönenIt’s extremely challenging to design an aesthetically pleasing car park, and my home town is not an exception to the rule. The nameless concrete shack in question belongs to a decent-looking shopping mall complex right in the heart of Rovaniemi.Biggest controversyThe Sámi people are the northernmost indigenous people of Europe, inhabiting Finnish Lapland, Northern Scandinavia and Kola Peninsula – a borders-crossing region that is known as Sápmi. The Sámi people speak multiple endangered languages and many families still practise semi-nomadic livelihoods – most prominently reindeer herding – along with a wide variety of urban professions.Some Finnish travel agencies are using the Sámi culture and lifestyle to promote “true and genuine Lapland”, regardless of their limited knowledge of the subject. The colonial misuse of Sámi symbols is a heated topic here in the north. The people of Sámi heritage are sick of seeing the shamanic drums used out of context and their traditional clothing worn as more of an exotic costume than a respectful outfit.Look on the street      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Roosa Nevala dressed for the autumn weather. Photograph: Arttu NieminenHomegrown talentMr Lordi (real name Tomi Putaansuu) is a Rovaniemi-born musician, and the mastermind behind the hard rock band Lordi. The band is known for its elaborate monster masks that hide their identities, and the pyro-spitting horror props of their gigs. The group made history in 2006 by becoming the first hard rock band to win the Eurovision Song Contest with their song Hard Rock Hallelujah.He was featured in the 2014 documentary Monsterman, by Antti Haase, as “the monsterboy who never grew up” living in the fantasy world he had created.Smell of the cityA large part of Rovaniemi is covered in forests, so the pleasant and piny scent of coniferous trees really embodies this town of lumberjacks. The pine trees are ubiquitous and their aroma is subtle yet distinctive. One catches the entire range of it by taking a walk in a summery evergreen forest, heating a sauna with firewood and then maybe enjoying a reindeer dish seasoned with pine or juniper in one of the fine dining restaurants that experiment with tastes of the Arctic.Underrated location      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rovaniemi’s annual bonfire. Photograph: Olli JunesLocated on the Arctic Circle, my home town has built its reputation around extremes: the white nights of summer and the polar nights of the Christmas season. Rovaniemi lies on the shores of the river Kemijoki, which is a popular destination for summer and winter swimmers alike, as well as a much loved ice-covered venue for winter sports and leisure. The riverside and its events in autumn, however, don’t get much attention.Throughout autumn – starting with the Rovaniemi Old Time Fair (Rovaniemen Wanhat Markkinat) on Jätkänpuisto strand in August – cultural events and harvest markets take place on the riverside. In the beginning of November the Arctic fall is crowned by an annual bonfire art event, Riverlights (Jokivalkeat).If there are no special seasonal events on, I recommend opting for a calming river walk to a laavu, an open hut, and enjoy hot cocoa and snacks. The laavus are open and free for all the visitors and are found around riverbanks and forests.Moment in history      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Destruction in the centre of Rovaniemi. Photograph: Vilho Uomala/SA-kuvaThe most influential single event in the history of Rovaniemi is the near-total destruction of the town in the second world war. The Moscow Armistice (September 1944) between the Soviet Union and Finland ended the four-year alliance between Nazi Germany and Finland, once united by their mutual enemy in war. As a result, German troops withdrew from Finnish Lapland and its capital Rovaniemi using a scorched earth policy. There’s still debate on what happened next, but 90% of the buildings were destroyed, including homes and farms. Even the town’s ski jump ramp was reduced to rubble and ashes.The blaze demolished everything familiar to the locals and today’s rebuilt Rovaniemi is naturally something very different. Understandably some locals tend to criticise the modern blocks of flats of the centre, yearning for something “old and authentic”. On the other hand, Rovaniemi wouldn’t be the same, original town of its own kind if it had not been forced to reinvent itself. Many people choose to cycle to work, school and nightclubs all year around, whether it is 30C above or below zero Best Instagram accountAntti Keränen is a 22-year-old nature photographer whose eerie and gloomy Instagram feed tells otherworldly stories from the midst of taiga. Keränen shoots almost all of his footage within walking distance from Rovaniemi’s commercial centre along the trekking paths of the forest-covered hill Ounasvaara.Best local artistThe visual artists Ninni Korkalo and Tuomas Korkalo provide fresh and contemporary views on society, both in the north and globally. They seem to challenge themselves with almost every medium imaginable, ranging from disciplined painting studies to video art, performances and social experiments. For a good start, check out Ninni Korkalo’s heartfelt social art project Hospitality Army.What does your city do better than anybody else?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photos using the hashtag #FrostyFaceRovaniemi on Instagram. Photograph: InstagramSix months of cold and snow may freeze the rivers, but people in the north have plenty of “snow how” to keep society and themselves warm and happy. After a night of snowfall, dozens of snowploughs begin work to clear the roads for the morning commute. Many people, including me, choose to cycle to work, school, hobbies and nightclubs all year around, whether it is 30C above or below zero. The latter temperature makes your hair and eyelashes go frosty.School days are very rarely cancelled because of low temperatures – not even when it goes down to -40C. The town has made its chilly winter an alluring product that attracts an increasing amount of tourists (there’s snow on the ground for around 180 days per year). The town calls itself the official home town of Santa Claus, and rightfully so, since every year 600,000 Christmas letters are sent to the Santa Claus main post office in the city.How green is your city?Despite the closeness to nature, we aren’t the best at sustainable living. Our air and waters are among the cleanest on the global level and people highly disapprove of littering, but we are terribly blind to some of our unsustainable and wasteful habits. For example, in the winter we heat our homes without hesitation to the luxurious temperature of 21C, and nothing keeps us from enjoying a weekly moment in a sauna, which in Finland is considered “too chilly” if it’s less than 70C.Top insider’s tip      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kauppayhtiö terrace in the summer time. Photograph: Emma KähkönenCafe bar Kauppayhtiö, was established 10 years ago and has grown to be a booming cultural hub. The old building holds a restaurant, terrace, live music, theatre venues and a clothes shop. The soulful and retro diner is a second home for students, young families, artists, musicians, DJs, snowboarders and writers alike, without leaving out old folks and business people who stop by to enjoy a cup of tea or an artisan burger.Five to followVisit RovaniemiMarko JunttilaAntti RaatikainenOnly in LaplandArctic CenterAbout me      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rovaniemi’s insider, Emma Kähkönen. Photograph: Emma KähkönenEmma Kähkönen is a 23-year-old journalist, photographer and visual arts student. You can follow her on Instagram.