Evgeny Naidenov approaches a microphone in the middle of his office, and with the word “fuck”, begins his weekly 9am briefing.His 40 employees then take it in turns to suggest ideas on how to improve Ultimate Guitar, the world’s most popular website for “badass” musicians.Created by Naidenov when he was just a schoolboy on his summer holidays, Ultimate Guitar now has 11 million registered users. It ranks in the top 500 most popular websites in the US and Dave Mustaine, founder of one of the thrash metal group Megadeth recently credited the site with helping him to learn classical Vivaldi compositions.“I was just finishing school here in Kaliningrad in 1998 and during summer vacation I decided to make a ‘hamster’ page [a Russian colloquialism for homepage]. It was the late 90s, everyone was doing it,” remembers Naidenov.“I posted a dozen or so tablatures [simplified musical notes] of Guns N’ Roses, and the next morning I saw that the site had already had 30 visitors, so I plunged myself into developing it further.”While Russia is one of the rare countries where the local search engine, Yandex, is more popular than Google, and the local social network, Vkontakte, is more popular than Facebook, the tech sector based in Moscow is facing turbulent times. In 2015 investments in IT dropped by 45% and tech only accounts for 2% of Russia’s total exports.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Behind the scenes at one of Russia’s tech success stories Photograph: Maksim YurgensonBut the Baltic city of Kaliningrad, home of Ultimate Guitar, has slightly more on offer to attract the sector. With the borders of Lithuania and Poland just 50km away, Kaliningrad’s low property prices have attracted computer programmers from across Russia and the rest of the post-Soviet region.Ultimate Guitar’s turnover is now “several million dollars per year” and the company claims not to be too concerned about Russia’s struggling economy. “We don’t care about all these crises and the rate of the US dollar. What we care about is the product we make,” Naidenov says.The early days In the very early days Ultimate Guitar was called Zappp’s Guitar Archive and published exclusively in Russian, but by 1999 the portal was bilingual and was growing into a serious international business.“We weren’t ‘pioneers’ as such because we had dozens of competitors,” says Naidenov. “Then we received a letter from the National Music Publishers Association saying we were infringing on a copyright and as our competitors closed down to avoid taking any risk we turned the situation to our advantage.”Previously, guitar tabs were only registered in books, but Ultimate Guitar became the first to licence and sell them online, and by the mid 2000s they had become “very well known to guitarists worldwide”.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ultimate guitar’s 10 most popular tabs Photograph: Ultimate GuitarBut after a decade of impressive growth internet users were turning to smart phones in their droves and the site saw a significant drop in revenue from paid advertising. They had to innovate. “The solution was to unite everyone into one big team working in a hackathon-type format,” says Mikhail Trutnev, the company’s chief operating officer.Every Monday at 9am all employees, no matter what department they belong to, must suggest an idea.At one planning meeting the team decides the chords of many of the songs are too difficult for novices to get to grips with. Later that day the “simplify chords” function is born. At another, it was decided that the interaction with Ultimate Guitar’s users needed to be reassessed. The result was the “tone of voice” project, leading to the website adopting more rock and roll language, including swear words, when it talks to its users.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The team work from 9am-3pm when they ‘at their most effective’ Photograph: Maksim YurgensonQuick problem solving is the rule, not the exception, for Trutnev’s team: “Nobody here sweats over a problem for a month... We do tonnes of mini-experiments, each of which can be implemented in a couple of days,” he says. “To kill the fear of ‘fucking it up’... it’s necessary to experiment as often as possible.”Trutnev’s team only work “from 9am to 3pm, when everyone is at their most effective,” he explains. “And nobody is late on a Monday because we close the office doors at 9:01am.”