Bandit – Prince BoppI discovered this song on a mix by Uli K – it’s a truly beautiful and wistful contemporary rap song. It’s hyper-melodic and haphazardly moves between intense emotional confession and matter-of-fact street-rap storytelling. I love the turn in the middle of the song where Prince Bopp discovers that his music can pull him out of his sadness and the beat kicks in with a new anthemic power.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Only Music Can Save Me Now – David Mahler David Mahler is a recent discovery for me. Over the last few years I’ve been obsessed. I sample him on my new album Care. While it’s definitely in step with some music from the last half-century of American experimental music, there’s something more joyous and almost humorous about his work. This song in particular, to my mind, is more like New Found Glory than Steve Reich – the progression is so major and driving, it just feels like such a fresh step to me. Whenever I put it on I feel saved.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Drip on My Walk – Kodie Shane Kodie Shane is so sick! She’s in the same scene as Lil Yachty, but has yet to get as much attention as she deserves. Her energy is super cool and weird and positive, I just love it. So swaggy and flashy and cocky. Whenever I put this song on I just start dancing.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest River – Joni MitchellShe literally interpolates Jingle Bells. How is this song so damn powerful but also so joyous? Both vocal-melodically and lyrically, Joni has been a big personal discovery. In a number of ways I feel like we are sisters. I love the joy in the movements of her melodies, almost reckless yet still with graceful energy.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I Love You Always Forever – Donna LewisThis is a perfect song. It was such a huge influence on Care, especially on the song What’s Up. It’s just so crystal clear and so affectively powerful – and the second version of the chorus is so bomb. Nothing needs to be said about this song, it is totally unmistakable.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 