James is 6ft 5in tall, an imposing 45-year-old man with a successful career. He is a father of two young children and a popular, talented sportsman who excels at rugby and golf. If you got to know him well, you might discover a few quirks. He doesn’t permit any black in his house. There won’t ever be a leather sofa in his living room. He will never stock up on Jaffa Cakes for his kitchen cupboard. And he won’t allow his four-year-old son to have a bunk bed.His partner, Emily, discovered the reason when she found him curled in a ball by their spare bed, a sweating “gibbering wreck” after they argued one day six years ago: “I can still see him there, cowering, a big man, trying to get under the bed. He was like a little boy, whimpering, not lucid, as if he was in a flashback. I managed to get him on to the bed and held him, which normally he doesn’t let me do. That was a pivotal moment, seeing what was going on in his head.”In the first year of their relationship, James hinted that he’d had a horrible time at school. Emily wasn’t given the whole story at once but, gradually, the secret that he’d kept close for more than 30 years came out: the physical and sexual abuse he’d suffered when he was nine years old.In 1980, James’s parents, a businessman and a teacher, decided that their eldest son would benefit from a private education at a boarding school in Suffolk. St George’s was an impressive-looking former stately home with a sweeping drive. On his first night, he and other homesick boys were hauled out of their metal bunk-beds by two prefects. Wearing slippers, a dressing gown and starchy new pyjamas, James was led along corridors until he came to a black door beneath a winding staircase. They could hear crying.Inside was a long leather sofa, a big desk on which lay a cane and a contraption that resembled an oversized table-tennis bat and two men: Derek Slade, the headmaster, and Gerard Singer, the head of languages. James does not like to call them by their names. For him, it dignifies them. “I built up such a resilience to them. I’d prefer ‘him’ to be ‘it’,” he says.James was ordered to turn around and drop his trousers. Then he was whacked with “six of the best”. After a few weeks and more beatings – “you’re punished for crying, you’re punished for not having your shoes polished, it was all very regimented” – James was summoned again to the room with the black door. There, waiting, were the same two teachers.“I knocked on the black door and walked into the room and Slade was behind his desk. My normal thing was to go and adopt my position and drop my trousers, and I stood there waiting. I didn’t take much notice but his trousers were round his ankles. I was waiting for the cane and he came over and thrust his penis into me and that was the first time he raped me.” My relationships haven’t been intimate or cuddly. I look at other couples and it tortures me that I’m unable to do that James uses such unequivocal language now because, in the witness box of Ipswich crown court, where Singer finally stood trial earlier this summer, James was told by the judge that he had to speak more plainly. “Several times, the judge said, ‘You have to say what he is doing.’ In court, you have to be graphic and say ‘penis’ and ‘penis inside you’ and ‘semen’.”That was a shock to James: he hadn’t been warned in advance by the Crown Prosecution Service, for whom he was a key witness.After the abuse, James was sent back to his dorm. “As you walk out of the door, there was a table with Jaffa Cakes. They said, ‘Take three Jaffa Cakes’. When you’re away from home and the school meals are absolutely awful, a Jaffa Cake was like Willy Wonka’s Golden Ticket.”James was raped between 25 and 30 times by both teachers in a year, before they abruptly left the school without explanation. “You go home at Christmas just a broken child. I just can’t get excited by Christmas now. All these things have triggers in later life.”After they fell in love, Emily became used to James’s reluctance to be tactile. Their first house had a galley kitchen. “You just can’t share that space. It’s like a forcefield around him. He will flinch if I go to touch him,” she says. “James is not in any way violent or physically abusive. I’ve never feared that he would be to any of us, but there is a swirling vortex of negative energy around him. It comes into the room with him and it’s bigger than him.”“My relationships haven’t been intimate or cuddly, I don’t do all that,” says James. “Holding hands, touching someone’s shoulder at a party, which is normal in normal relationships, is not normal for me. I look at other couples and it tortures me that I’m not able to do that.”“It also tortures me to see the closeness between other couples,” adds Emily. “I desperately want it too. Living like this is very lonely.”Around the time Emily came to understand his past, James discovered several old schoolmates on Facebook discussing the arrest of their former headmaster, Derek Slade. “I was really struggling with life. I was near Ipswich, where the trial was, and went into the public gallery. I saw this shrivelled old man with a big Santa Claus beard in the dock. I looked at him and he looked at me. It put the fear of God into me. I just got up and walked out.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Giving evidence in court was harrowing for James but afterwards, ‘the weight went from my shoulders,’ he says. Photograph: Posed by model/Getty ImagesSlade’s conviction – jailed for 21 years – “triggered something” in James, and he resolved to do something about his second abuser, Gerard Singer.He went to the police and spent hours giving evidence and undergoing medical examinations (doctors’ evidence formed part of the prosecution against Singer). Although Emily knew about his childhood trauma, James was still reluctant to share the progress of his case, which took six years to come to trial. He was upset when a new police liaison officer casually asked him what his case was about (she hadn’t bothered to check) and when he was told there wasn’t time to visit the court before the trial to familiarise himself with the surroundings. “I felt I was always chasing the police,” he says. “I was expecting a bit more support. Since the trial, I’ve heard nothing from them.”“Quite often things would be terrible between us and only afterwards it would transpire that something had happened with the police or the court case,” says Emily. “I’ve tried many times to ask him about his experiences. On the one hand, I have to be sensitive and not pry. On the other, I’ve been pushed away quite venomously so many times, I’m reluctant to put myself there. He keeps himself this closed book. I’m a very open person but in order to preserve my own sanity I’ve had to emotionally turn away.”In this way, the abuse “doesn’t stop when it stopped 35 years ago”, says Emily. “The evil is still within our family because it has its impact on him and his behaviour and we’re living with that every day.”James, she says, is “quite reluctant” to seek help. At first, they tried couples counselling but Emily says it didn’t really work. She believes he needs specialist counselling. “It takes him a long time to build up trust in the counsellor,” she says.Giving evidence against his abuser in court was “the most harrowing thing I’ve had to do in my life,” says James. “It could go two ways. You could be believed or you could be back in there for contempt of court.”On the day he was called to give evidence, their four-year-old son, Billy, could tell he was upset.James and Emily told him that Daddy had to sort out some problems at work. Billy disappeared and then returned. “I’ve got something for you Daddy. I’ve got Captain Barnacles. He’s there to protect you.”James put Captain Barnacles – the leader of the Octonauts cartoon – in his pocket when he stood in the witness box. “When it was getting harrowing, I pulled him out and just broke down. I said to the jury, ‘I’ve got a four-year-old boy and a 10-month-old girl who are in this big world and I’m going to do my damnedest to protect them.’” I’ve suffered torment. When a child comes to you, stop and listen. We can never eradicate evil but we can listen For all his turmoil in court – particularly when he was cross-examined by Singer’s defence barrister – “the weight went from my shoulders” after he gave evidence. Most importantly, James – and eight other abused former pupils who gave evidence – was believed. Singer was found guilty of all 27 counts of abuse. He was sentenced to 21 years in prison and a further eight on licence.“I’ve suffered torment of a great magnitude. The physical side of things is never going to heal,” says James. “When a child comes to you, stop and listen. We can never eradicate evil but we can always listen.”After the trial, they went on holiday and Emily caught a “glimpse” of a happier future for their family. “James was open and communicative and perceptive and he understood how we could have a normal conversation about things and the life going on around him. I’d been living with this block of stone for four years and now he was starting to show some emotion. You don’t want to see someone hurting but it’s preferable to them blocking it out and taking it out on everyone around them.”However, “That kind of closed again,” says Emily. “I never expected everything to be instantly better. We had this amazing breakthrough. It was impossible for that to last because it can’t be that easy [to get over abuse].”Emily worries about the impact of a “toxic atmosphere” on their children. “I want the home to be a place of sanctuary for the children, not stress. This is the point at which things have to start moving forward or else he is never going to change. He needs to see what he has to lose. Do you want that terrible thing that happened in the past to ruin your future? Don’t let those people ruin any more of your life.”What of his parents, who sent him to the school in the first place?Ten years ago, when James’s parents bailed him out of a serious debt, his mother asked him what was wrong and he finally told her about the abuse. He says he and his father don’t have a very close bond but doesn’t blame his parents for sending him away and shows me an email from his father, expressing his love, support and admiration for his son. “They did what they thought was best. I still love them, they are my parents. I’m letting them heal, as they are me,” he says.James is hopeful. “Emily says all the lines have gone out of my face. She’s never seen that part of me and I’ve never seen that part of me. I want to put all of this dark stuff in a box. But the lid is ajar and you let a bit out and hopefully that box will gradually become empty.”Names have been changed