The playlist: ‘Diana Ross got me singing at the top of my voice’Music critic Alexis Petridis on how to find the right jogging tunesBefore I started running, lots of people gave me advice, and all of it turned out to be true. Yes, I found running weirdly addictive. Yes, it provided me with a sense of mental equilibrium: I felt better physically, but also psychologically. Yes, the runner’s high is a real thing: a euphoric, fleeting rush of endorphins that feels remarkably like being on fantastic drugs, without the comedown.But they never mentioned music, which in retrospect seems odd. Among the pleasures of running – right up there with mental equilibrium and smug self-satisfaction – is the bizarrely intense relationship I feel with whatever I’m listening to. Perhaps it has something to do with running putting you in a heightened, more receptive state; perhaps with the fact that you often concentrate intently on what’s coming out of your headphones to keep your mind off how knackered you are. Whatever it is, it’s powerful. Songs have vaulted out of nowhere into my all-time-favourites list as a result of listening to them while I run. In some ways, it’s the aspect of running I look forward to the most, the thing that can get me out of the house when it’s cold or wet or I just don’t feel like it.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nu-metal of the I-didn’t-ask-to-be-born-mum variety (Slipknot, pictured) might not work for everyone. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianCertainly, I think music is too important a part of running to leave to others to control, although if you want to do that, there are plenty of options. Streaming services, still engaged in the faintly creepy task of trying to second-guess what you want to listen to, have acres of curated and continually updated exercise playlists: “Go harder, better, faster and longer with these motivational EDM tracks. Yes, you CAN do it. You got this”; “The sound of sweatspiration … train hard and reap the rewards with a rootsy, motivating mix.”The perfect running playlist: the best rock tracks These descriptions alone largely motivate me to go back to bed and pull up the covers – and that’s before I even get to the music. In fairness, there’s a pretty wide representation of genres on offer – “fast folk and aggressive Americana, guaranteed to push your workout to the max” offers one playlist, chillingly – but the vast majority appear to have been compiled by people steadfast in the belief that what you really want to listen to when you’re exercising is awful pop-dance or terrible, shouty, I-didn’t-ask-to-be-born-mum nu-metal.If that’s your thing, fill your boots. But I’ve got a feeling that, regardless of your tastes, you might be better off making your own running playlists than relying on algorithms. Whatever genre you opt for, I’d go for a mix of new stuff, heavily laced with stuff you have at least some familiarity with: for some reason, I find the moment of happy recognition when a track you know and love kicks in gives you a quick energy boost.People seem to fuss about the tempo affecting how you run: there are playlists on which everything is around 170bpm, based on precisely this logic. But I’ve never found that it matters. I’ve run really fast and really well – by my standards, at least – while listening to late-70s and early-80s soul that was laid back to the point of sonnambulence.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A good bet to help you reach that ‘runner’s high’ … Diana Ross. Photograph: Rick Nederstigt/EPAMore affecting than speed is the tenor of the music. Given that the runners’ high usually seems to kick in after 40 minutes, I’d strongly suggest loading that part of your playlist with music that might intensify this, although there are potential downsides to doing that, not least the spectacle you can make of yourself if you get carried away: I speak as a man who was once spotted by a friend running along the A23, in the throes of endorphin-induced euphoria, singing along to Diana Ross’s I Ain’t Been Licked at the top of my voice, a sight said friend described as both “deeply upsetting” and “impossible to erase from my memory”.The motivator: ‘We finish at a club for a beer and a dance’Tim Jonze finds that the right coach can help in unlikely ways“Music is fundamental to what we do,” says Greg Drach, co-founder of the exercise group Midnight Runners. “It’s a legal performance-enhancer.” Midnight Runners stage mass runs through the city streets after dark, with some joggers lugging boomboxes so everyone can listen to the same playlist. “People run at different speeds, so music helps keep the group together,” says Drach. “Plus you can’t hear your own breathing as much.”Building exercise playlists can be less scientific than you might think. Drach says he started out picking Spotify playlists that adhered to a suitable 160-180bpm, but this didn’t always work out. “A lot of songs were terrible for running,” he says. “They just felt wrong, didn’t get you pumping.”The perfect running playlist: the best disco tracks Instead he opted for a more instinctive approach, and it turns out that being a music fan with an ear for a tune is essential, no matter how big the operation. Gillian Reeves, national group exercise manager at Virgin Active Health Clubs, says instructors spend hours sorting playlists, with the company even building a specialised platform from which to create them, using a constantly updated library of 50,000 tracks.“One of the reasons participants come back,” she says, “is that they like your selection. It can transform exercise, which may seem tedious, into a theatrical, emotive experience.”Chris Stanton, who runs The Pack spin classes at Virgin Active, says factors like bpm can be important when you want your class to find an extra gear – he tries to match the music to the required revolutions-per-minute during hill climbs, for instance. But Reeves and Stanton both tend to look beyond the numbers and, depending on the class, follow some simple rules: pick songs in which the verse and chorus provide natural intervals for you to catch your breath; use acoustic tracks to cool down as they provide less stimulation for the nervous system; make sure any lyrics complement the motivational atmosphere you’re trying to create. “Songs about sad times or breakups aren’t the best,” says Reeves.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Subtlety-free … EDM acts such as Avicii feature heavily on many workout playlists. Photograph: Ollie Millington/Redferns via Getty ImagesThe playlists Midnight Runners and Virgin use are pretty familiar. Both opt for subtlety-free EDM and chart-pop remixes with huge, arm-waving choruses: Avicii, Clean Bandit, Calvin Harris and DJ Snake feature on their more intense workout playlists, though Drach says he likes to throw in the occasional classic (“so people can all sing along”). Reeves, meanwhile, occasionally pays tribute to a legend: “Earlier this year there were a lot of Prince tracks around the time he passed, in homage to such an inspiring artist.”Clearly, the point isn’t to make sure your muscles are straining in tandem to a robotic rhythm, but rather to ensure you’re having fun. Indeed, Midnight Runners time their 11.30pm runs to finish at a party location, so that the exhausted runners can grab a recovery beer from the bar and shift the workout to the dancefloor.The Olympian: ‘Beyoncé as a pick-me-up, the Weeknd to chill out’Dina Asher-Smith, 100m and 200m British record-holder, Olympic and World Championship bronze medallist, and history studentWhether I am about to race in an Olympic final or the first heat of the British indoor championships, my choice of music will be designed to balance out what I am feeling. So if I am nervous, I’ll put on something soothing. But if I’m tired – if it’s day five of the Olympics and I need energy from somewhere – I’ll listen to something that picks me up. I know the level of arousal I need to be at my best. Music helps me get into that zone.In the past, I’ve tried being really hyper before I compete – it doesn’t work. I’ve also tried being really calm – again, it doesn’t work. You have to be somewhere in the middle. So I have a bunch of playlists. If I need to chill out, I’ll listen to the Weeknd, slow R&B and old skool classics – TLC and stuff like that. If I want to pick myself up, it’s Beyoncé, grime, Jay Z, Kanye West – stuff that is empowering and gets you thinking.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sometimes you need stuff that powers you up and gets you thinking … Beyoncé. Photograph: Brian Snyder/ReutersUnlike many athletes, I don’t listen to music when I’m training or warming up. Yes, rhythm is really important. But when I run, I have to feel the patterns of what I’m doing without accompanying music – because when you race, you don’t have Jay Z pounding out on the track with you.Running with music: the case for and against That said, sometimes I will put my headphones on with no music. I know it sounds funny, but it is like a symbol of being in the zone. It’s like: “I need my own space here.” Otherwise, you get people saying: “Hey!” That’s fine 99% of the time but not when there’s an Olympic medal on the line. Sometimes if I’m cold when training in the winter, I’ll also use my headphones as earmuffs!I’m currently in the final year of a history degree at King’s College, London, so when I am writing an essay I will always listen to Classic FM, as its music keeps me focused without distracting me – most of the time, there are no words to sing along to. I’m going to write my dissertation on jazz in 20th-century America. Until recently, I didn’t listen to much jazz – I chose the topic more because of the race relations and interaction with popular culture. But once I started getting into it, I realised it’s the foundation for so much else. Interview by Sean IngleMore uplifting culture for 2017