“People have always consumed psychoactive substances, risking harm.” This is the opening sentence of a recent article by Fiona Godlee and Richard Hurley in the British Medical Journal, which goes on to state that around one in 20 adults worldwide are thought to have taken an illegal drug in 2014.I blame Fabric’s closure on this country’s backward drugs policy Is it immoral to ingest substances that alter our consciousness? Is it nirvana we are seeking, or are we drowning in the ocean of the lonely crowd, yearning for a connection to something greater than ourselves? Or do we simply like getting high now and again?When I was growing up, advertisements scared us with images of emaciated heroin addicts telling us, “I could give up tomorrow … couldn’t I?” The “just say no” campaign was linked firmly to the international war on drugs, which was at its height in the 1980s and predated the health-focused warnings linked to HIV and Aids. Yet prohibition is seen by drugs experts as a failure, is estimated to cost around $100bn annually and has “failed to curb either supply or demand, reduce addiction, or minimise harm”, in the words of the BMJ.I must declare that I have a horse in this race. As chairman of the Night Time Industries Association (NTIA) I represent venues and operators across the UK – and have spent my adult life running dance music events around the world. In Britain over the past decade we have seen a huge decrease in the number of nightclubs and one of the main reasons has been a new approach, by police and local authorities, who now seek to hold premises responsible for the behaviour of their customers.In London, Fabric was closed pending a hearing where its licence was revoked due to the death of two adults over a nine-week period over the summer. There had been six deaths in total over four years due to the consumption of MDMA, the club had a zero-tolerance policy towards drugs, more security per person than any other UK club and a raft of surveillance and safety measures. Yet it took a major campaign to persuade Islington council to let the club reopen under still more stringent conditions. Across the country, club owners are petrified that anything that happens in or near their venue could mean last orders for ever.Fortunately there are alternatives to this punitive approach both to businesses and individuals, vast numbers of whom are incarcerated around the world for the non-violent crime of ingesting a controlled substance. Fiona Measham, a professor of criminology at Durham University, is a co-director of the Loop, a non-profit organisation that offers people the chance to test drugs before they take them. The Loop has worked with police and operators in Manchester and at festivals including Secret Garden Party, where up to 25% of festival goers were reported to have handed in drugs that did not contain what they thought.Measham believes drug-testing booths in city centres would help protect the public, as by the time people get to a nightclub it is sometimes too late. But such “harm reduction” measures struggle to gain support from police as well as nightclub operators, who fear they will be accused of promoting drug use rather than simply recognising that it takes place.The revolution in cannabis law has begun, but Britain is stuck in the past | Simon Jenkins It is 55 years since the United Nations Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs sought to prohibit the non-medical use of narcotics globally. Since then the world has changed enormously. Uruguay legalised the possession of all drugs in 1974 and in 2014 allowed the production of marijuana by all citizens too. In the United States, on the same day Donald Trump was elected, several states legalised or decriminalised the use of cannabis partly in recognition of the enormous social harm and injustice of mass incarceration. Meanwhile in Portugal, which decriminalised the use of drugs in 2001, there are three deaths per million from drug overdoses, while the average across the EU is 17.3.With the police facing increasing pressures to tackle cybercrime, terrorism and sex offences, all while dealing with cuts, it is time to decide whether enforcing drugs laws is the best use of resources. Legalisation and licensed sale of currently illegal substances would also generate enormous tax revenues for HM Treasury.Recent footage from Pentonville prison showed drones being used to fly in drugs. How can it be fair to punish nightclubs and bars for failing to enforce rules that are flouted even in the most fortified buildings we have? A change in the law would make the public safer and diminish the influence of organised crime. It is time to have an honest, grown-up conversation about drugs in Britain.