On 1 January last year we began a new research project called “Optimised”. We had published a book called The Wellness Syndrome the year before, questioning the growing pressure to become fitter, smarter and more productive. While sympathising with the desire for self-improvement, we were concerned with the punishing ideals of this culture. People were starting to act as if they were their own tyrannical boss, imposing on themselves demands to be more streamlined and efficient.BF Skinner’s theory of behaviour modification had made a surprising return in the form of smartphone apps urging us to self-administer rewards and punishment, and there was also a sudden impulse to track our lives, pedantically monitoring our sleep and exercise with wearable technologies. These seemed much like the technologies used to track prisoners, but wrapped around our wrists instead of our ankles. One wristband even sent out electric shocks, as though wearers were conducting the Milgram experiment – designed to test obeying instructions which caused pain – on themselves.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   From left, activities over the year included Carl doing a radio interview in French and having a professional photoshoot while André took up running and eating meat. Photograph: Carl Cederström and André SpicerWhen readers of The Wellness Syndrome had asked about our personal engagement with self-improvement, we had to admit it was close to nonexistent. Sceptical for as long as we could remember, our preferred way to engage with this culture had been from a safe analytical distance.But we decided to optimise one aspect of our lives each month for a year, submitting ourselves to the advice of experts and using the latest self-improvement technologies and life hacks. We browsed thousands of books, magazines and podcasts to devise our list of subjects. Some, such as productivity, were so popular that they seemed unavoidable – and we included body, brain, relationships, money, enjoyment, spirituality and attention too. Goodness appeared to be a new area of optimisation – not least with the recent popularity of effective altruists, who aim to achieve the most good in the most efficient way possible. Finally, there was sex. Neither of us were particularly keen on “optimising” this area of our lives, but if we wanted an impartial selection, there was no way of avoiding it.We began with productivity, meeting experts who helped us optimise our work routines. We also ingested smart drugs, used by one in four students at Oxford University. Obviously this is not advisable, but André nonetheless liked the drugs and went on a 40-hour work marathon, keeping himself awake with the help of modafinil, a narcolepsy drug, and finishing a book he’d been writing. Carl became anxious and fidgety on the same drug, but found ADHD medication such as metamina and attentin more helpful. To monitor our sleep, nutrition and movements, we used apps and the wearable technology Fitbit (20 million Fitbits were sold in 2015 alone). By the end of the month we had achieved our goals of writing a book each, and were pleased with them (both will be published later this year). But we also realised we had done almost nothing but work.January to AprilSome of the activities Carl and André undertook. Continued belowThe next area was the body. André joined the 50 million Europeans who run regularly, and began training for an ultramarathon, contributing to the multibillion-dollar running market in Europe by buying expensive running equipment. Like 2 million others, he also registered for a weekly Parkrun. Carl became one of the 47 million European gym members. At the start of the month he weighed 77.6kg (12 stone 3lb), but after weeks of intense sessions with personal trainers and a daily 5,000-calorie diet, made up of proteins and sports supplements (sports nutrition is now a $5.9bn market in the US alone), he gained 6kg (13lb). During the last days of the month, he participated in a professional weight-lifting competition and finished last.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Carl Cederström takes part in a professional weight-lifting competitionIn March we optimised our brains. Carl was mastering memorisation techniques, learning the names and order of the US presidents, Swedish prime ministers, and all the capitals of the world – and doing what 50 million people had done before him by downloading cognitive enhancement apps. He tried and failed to become one of the 110,000 members of Mensa by taking an IQ test – scoring 114, almost 20 points short of the entry requirement. But he was more successful in learning to solve one of the 350m Rubik’s cubes which have been sold over the years, and by the end of the month he could also recite the first 1,000 digits of pi.André, meanwhile, tried to learn programming. In an attempt to improve his chances, he went to see a brain hacker, who administered Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation – an increasingly popular technology for improving learning, used by the US military, in which a magnet is used to stimulate areas of the brain. Despite these efforts, André failed to learn how to programme.In the manner of serious self-optimisers, we had set ourselves clear goals for each month, and in the event of failing, we handed out punishments to each other. On failing to learn programming, André had to give a talk on the subject “Why I am an asshole” at Speakers’ Corner in London.May to AugustSome of the activities Carl and André undertook.Continued belowSpending only a month on each area may sound like too short a time, but by the end of each month we were exhausted, and unsurprisingly some months were more challenging than others (we almost stopped the project on three occasions). While André was struggling to learn programming, Carl was having a difficult time test-driving sex toys – a prostate vibrator and a transparent fleshlight – confronting his own barriers of shame.The most positive experience for Carl was July, the month we dedicated to pleasure, when he started smoking again after six years without nicotine. But after 10 days of enjoyment, it was an ordeal to quit again. For Andre, the most rewarding period was in October, when we were trying to be good, and he lived for a while according to Greek philosophy, spending his days in a deckchair, relaxing outside the Bank of England and reflecting on the meaning of life.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Carl Cederström (left) and André Spicer during July, their month of pleasure.As the project progressed, we found it more natural to challenge our everyday routines, testing techniques and ideas we would otherwise have found pointless, if not outright absurd (many more approaches than detailed here). At the end of the year, for instance, when we were trying to optimise the attention people paid us, Carl uploaded his photo to the website Reddit, where visitors could rate his appearance. After receiving criticism, he had cosmetic surgery to enhance his jawline.As the year drew to an end, we were asked if our optimisations had been successful. This seems like the wrong question. There has been some success, sure, but often tainted with failure. Carl learned French in one month, in April, but the experience of appearing on French radio was so traumatising that he has since been incapable of reading or speaking a word of the language. André successfully completed an ultramarathon but lost money in September, when he became a day trader, joining the 92,000 active users of spread-betting platforms.September to DecemberSome of the activities Carl and André undertook.We’ve also been asked what we will continue to do now this year is over. When answering this, we have found ourselves listing useful discoveries, such as the Pomodoro time-management technique, where you work intensively for 25 minutes followed by a five-minute break. Simple as it is, this technique worked magic for us. But handing out advice puts us in danger of playing the role of self-help experts, betraying the basic motivation for our study – to produce a close-up diagnosis of optimisation culture.One crucial insight has emerged though. To immerse yourself in self-help culture, and expect to resurface in a sober, reflective state, is very much easier said than done.We’re interested from hearing from readers about their experiences of self-optimisation, as people embark on another round of resolutions. Why are we trying so hard to optimise ourselves? How can we explain the rise of this billion-dollar industry? What does it actually take to change ourselves, and to win approval from others? Is this something we do because we really want to? Or is it something we feel compelled to engage in, as though it was compulsory? Carl Cederström and André Spicer will joined us this morning to discuss all these questions, you can see their comments below.