1 CalabriaRoasted ’nduja marinated quailThis is a very Moorish recipe which plays on the sweet and sour flavours typical of southern Italian cuisine, heavily influenced by Arabic gastronomy since the Middle Ages. Key ingredients, apart from the quail, are vinegar, extra virgin olive oil, thyme, sultanas, paprika and Greco di Bianco, a passito-style wine from Calabria. Quail is a very versatile bird; it makes for a perfect, lighter roast in spring or the basis of a much richer dish come September. To add a bold kick to the dish, the paprika has been replaced with ’nduja – the soft, spicy Calabrian sausage – which is then used to flavour the marinade.Francesco Mazzei, Sartoria restaurantServes 48 quail, 160-180g each50g sultanas20g ’ndujaA sprig of thyme50ml extra virgin olive oil175ml Passito di Pantelleria, marsala or Greco di Bianco wine2 tbsp red wine vinegarSalt and black pepperFor the mashed potatoes4 large Cyprus potatoes, 800g-1kg1 Spatchcock the quail and put them in a large non-metallic dish or sealable container that fits all the quail in one layer.2 In a bowl, mix all the remaining ingredients and let the ’nduja melt before pouring over the quail. Cover with clingfilm or a lid, place in the fridge and leave to marinate overnight.3 The next day, preheat the oven to 200C/400F/gas mark 6. Wash the potatoes well then cut a cross in the top of each. Put on a tray and bake for 50 minutes to 1 hour, until soft. Set the potatoes aside while you cook the quail – they should stay warm.4 Preheat a grill on its highest setting. Lift the quail out of their marinade (reserve the marinade) and place, bone-side up, under the hot grill for 10 minutes. Turn them over and continue to grill for 15 minutes until golden. Meanwhile, reheat the reserved marinade.5 To check the quail are cooked, cut along the breastbone and check there are no bloody juices (or use a thermometer pushed into the fleshy part and check that it reads 75C). Set aside to rest for 5 minutes.6 Scoop the insides of the potatoes out into a bowl – they should be fluffy like mashed potato. Season with salt and pepper, then divide among warm serving plates.7 Pile the quail on to each plate and spoon lots of the hot marinade over the top.2 TuscanyPeposoTuscan food is really very economical, very simple and unfussy. Their favourite ingredients are used over and over again in ways that make good use of seemingly little: bread (stale in particular), extra virgin olive oil, herbs such as rosemary and sage, garlic. And they are very much guided by seasons or what dishes feel to them as ‘summery’ or ‘wintry’. This is a hearty and peppery (as its name suggests) beef stew that was once baked in kilns used for producing the famous russet tiles of Florence’s duomo, in Impruneta, a nearby small town still known for its terracotta production. The recipe demands a whole bottle of wine and, since Impruneta is also in the heart of the Chianti Classico region, we are talking chianti here. This rewarding dish is so typically Tuscan because it’s unfussy and economical (it calls for a reasonably cheap cut of beef suitable for stewing), yet satisfying and full flavoured.Florentine: The True Cuisine of Florence by Emiko Davies (Hardie Grant)Serves 42 tbsp extra virgin olive oil1kg stewing or braising beef, such as chuck, diced3 garlic cloves, whole but peeled750ml red wine, preferably chiantiA good pinch of salt1 tbsp black pepperCrusty bread, to serve1 Heat the olive oil in a heavy-based casserole. Brown the meat in batches over a medium heat, then return all the meat back to the pot and add the garlic, red wine, salt and pepper.2 Simmer, covered, for 2½ hours, or until the meat is very tender, but not falling apart.3 Remove the lid of the pot for the last 45 minutes to reduce the liquid to a thick sauce.4 Serve with plenty of Tuscan bread to mop up the sauce.3 LazioSpaghetti alla griciaAlthough this recipe originated in the Apennine mountains north-east of the Italian capital, gricia has been fully adopted by Romans as a native dish. Today, it resides alongside carbonara, amatriciana, and cacio e pepe as a classic Roman primo. Local variations use pancetta instead of guanciale, and some cooks prefer rigatoni to spaghetti. There is a consensus though on gricia’s building blocks: cured pork, black pepper, pecorino romano cheese and dried pasta.Katie Parla, Katieparla.comServes 41 tsp extra virgin olive oil200g guanciale, cut into 5mm thick squares500g spaghetti ½ tsp black pepper, plus more for finishing75g pecorino romano, finely grated1 Heat the oil in a large frying pan over a low heat. When it begins to shimmer, add the guanciale and cook, stirring, until golden brown – about 8-10 minutes. Set aside.2 Meanwhile, bring a large pot of water to a rolling boil over a high heat. Salt the water. When the salt has dissolved, add the pasta and cook until al dente.3 Transfer the pasta to the pan with the guanciale, reserving the cooking water. Heat the pan over a medium-high heat, adding some pasta water. Swirl and stir the pasta as it finishes cooking. The sauce should be thick and slightly liquid, but not watery.4 When the pasta is al dente, turn off the heat, add the pepper and half of the pecorino, then stir vigorously to combine.5 Plate the pasta and serve with the remaining pecorino and some black pepper sprinkled on top.4 SicilyAnchovy, green bean and almond saladThis is a lovely, versatile salad and if you don’t like anchovies, you can make a slightly different version by substituting them for parmesan.Giorgio Locatelli, Locanda LocatelliServes 41 large onion80g whole blanched almonds200g waxy new potatoesSalt and black pepper200g green beans12 anchovies, either salted or in oil200g Pachino or cherry tomatoes, chopped1 tsp chilli oil For the dressing½ tsp sea salt3 tbsp red wine vinegar2 tbsp white wine vinegar300ml extra virgin olive oil, preferably Sicilian2 tbsp potato cooking water1 Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4. Put the onion, still in its skin, on a baking tray and put into the preheated oven for about 20–30 minutes, until it becomes slightly caramelised and soft. Remove, and when cool enough to handle, take off the skin and cut the onion into cubes.2 Lay the almonds in a single layer on a baking tray and put into the oven for about 8 minutes. As long as they are in a single layer you don’t need to turn them. Keep an eye on them to make sure they don’t burn. When golden, take them out and chop them.3 Meanwhile, put the potatoes into a pan of salted water, bring to the boil, and cook until just tender. Lift out of the pot with a slotted spoon and set aside to drain and cool. Don’t empty the pan; reserve the water.4 Meanwhile, make the dressing. Put the salt into a bowl, add the vinegars and leave for a minute until the salt dissolves. Whisk in the olive oil and 2 tbsp water until the vinaigrette emulsifies. Pour into a clean bottle and store in the fridge for up to 6 months. It will separate out again, but just shake it well before you use it.5 Drop the beans into the same water as the potatoes. Blanch for a minute or so, until they too are just tender. Drain and put into iced water, to stop the cooking and help them to keep their bright green colour.6 If using salted anchovies, rinse and dry them. Run your thumb gently along the backbone to release it, and you should be able to easily pull it out. If using anchovies in oil, drain them.7 Put the tomatoes, potatoes and beans into a serving dish, add the chilli oil and toss together, then add the cubes of onion. Chop the anchovies and add them to the bowl.8 Toss with the dressing, season to taste and sprinkle with the toasted almonds.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cook’s tip: For a spring alternative, substitute the rosemary in the farinata recipe for thinly sliced raw artichokes or smashed peas and mint. Photograph: Kim Lightbody for the Guardian5 LiguriaRosemary and gorgonzola dolce farinataFarinata is a chickpea flour pancake from Liguria. Whenever we put this on the menu at Trullo, it ends up being the most popular dish. I’m not surprised: it’s bloody delicious. Ideally, use freshly ground chickpea (AKA gram) flour and the highest quality you can find. In the UK, Asian or Middle-Eastern shops tend to be the best places to look.Tim Siadatan, Trullo restaurantMakes 4500ml water235g chickpea flour, siftedA pinch of saltA dash of olive oil1 tsp rosemary, chopped120g gorgonzola dolceVegetable oil, for cooking1 First, make the batter. Add the water to a large mixing bowl and whisk in the chickpea flour. Add a dash of olive oil, a pinch of salt and the rosemary.2 Preheat the oven to 190C/375F/gas mark 5. Heat a 20cm pan over a medium-high heat. When hot, add a thin layer of vegetable oil to the base of the pan. Pour in 110ml of the batter, let it bubble for 30 seconds then put the pan in the oven for 3 minutes. Flip the farinata, then return to the oven for 4 minutes, or until crispy. Transfer on to paper towel to absorb excess fat.3 Add small blobs of gorgonzola to one half of the farinata, then return to the oven for 90 seconds, until the cheese has started to melt. Take out of the oven, fold in half and cut into wedges. Repeat three times. 6 PiemonteTajarin pasta with asparagus, poached egg and hazelnutsThis dish, light and delicate as a spring breeze (bar the butter), shouts Piemonte with three voices. Wealth! Piemonte is a rich area, and wealth is displayed in this pasta by enriching it with egg yolks, and by rolling and cutting it so finely it becomes a display of dexterity, like needlepoint or crochet.Green! Piemonte (literally “foot of the mountain”) is lush with vines, hazel and asparagus, which is extensively and expertly cultivated around Turin. Brown! Piemonte is land-focused, and the hazelnuts are as symbolic of the ground as they are of the region – Piemonte has its own variety (nocciola tonda gentile), of which it is oh-so-proud.Jacob Kenedy, Bocca di LupoServes 2-4160g butter8 fat spears of asparagus (1 bunch)4 eggs (duck or hen)260g fresh tajarin, or 200g dried tagliolini or taglierini80g parmesan, grated 50g hazelnuts, crushed and toasted1 You’ll need two pans of boiling salted water for this dish: a deep one for the pasta, and a shallow one for the egg yolks. Set a large bowl over the deep pan to act as a lid, and to warm the bowl – put the butter in it to melt. If you’ve somewhere to do so, warm your serving dishes.2 While the water is coming to a boil, prepare the asparagus and the egg yolks (once you start cooking, everything must come together quickly). Break off and discard the tough bases of the asparagus, and cut the spears into fine julienne strips (2mm x 2mm and as long as the asparagus) with a julienne peeler or a knife.3 Meanwhile, separate the eggs. Save the whites for another day, and put the yolks individually into little dishes with a splash of cold water in each to keep them lubricated. Take care not to break the membranes.4 When you are pretty much ready to serve, put the tajarin on to boil. It will only take a minute for fresh, two for dried. Thirty seconds before the pasta is done, add the fine strips of asparagus to the same pan of boiling, salted water as the pasta. When both are verging on done but still al dente, drain the pasta and asparagus (reserving a few tablespoons of the pasta water) and toss them in the warmed bowl of butter. Add a dash of the reserved water, if it starts to look dry.5 Working quickly, poach the egg yolks – slip them gently into the shallow pan of water and let them simmer for just 30 seconds, until the little film of egg white that you couldn’t help but leave clinging to them has in fact turned white. You want to leave the yolks themselves completely raw and oozing – barely warmed.6 While they are poaching, serve the pasta on to warmed dishes – divide it between 4 or between 2, as a starter or as a main. Make a well in the centre of each dish and use a slotted spoon to lift the egg yolks from their poaching bath and into their new nests of tagliolini. Scatter with grated parmesan and toasted chopped hazelnuts, and serve immediately.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cook’s tip: For a truly authentic tiella, season each part of the dish separately before you assemble it. Photograph: Kim Lightbody for the Guardian7 PugliaTiellaTraditionally, the mussels are opened with a knife when still raw and used in this dish. Here, they are just-cooked and their cooking liquid is used to flavour the whole dish.Jane Baxter, Wild ArtichokesServes 61kg mussels100ml white wine1 red onion, finely chopped250g tomatoes, chopped4 tbsp parsley, chopped 70g breadcrumbs3 garlic cloves, crushed70g pecorino, grated 3 tbsp olive oil500g courgettes, thinly sliced700g waxy potatoes, thinly sliced200g arborio riceExtra virgin olive oil, for drizzlingSalt and black pepper1 Preheat the oven 160C/325F/gas mark 3. Clean the mussels well and heat a large pan until very hot. Tip in the mussels and add the wine. Give the pan a shake and cover. Cook for about a minute, until the mussels just start to open. Pour into a colander over a bowl to collect all the cooking liquor. When they are cool enough to handle, remove some from the shell and leave some in the half shell.2 Mix the onion with the tomatoes, 2 tbsp parsley and half the garlic. Season well. Mix the breadcrumbs with the pecorino, remaining garlic and parsley, and the oil. Season the courgettes and potatoes.3 Drizzle a little olive oil on to the base of an ovenproof dish. Sprinkle with half the tomato mix. Top with half the potatoes and the courgettes. Add the mussels and sprinkle with half the seasoned breadcrumbs. Top with the rice and the rest of the courgettes, finishing with a layer of potatoes.4 Top up the mussel liquor with fish stock or water, until it makes about 600ml. Pour this over the potatoes. Sprinkle with the rest of the tomatoes and finish with the remaining breadcrumbs. Drizzle with olive oil and bake, covered, for about 40 minutes, or until the rice and potatoes are almost cooked.5 Remove the cover and cook for another 10 minutes. Leave to stand for 10 minutes before serving.  8 Emilia-RomagnaBaked fennel with cream and parmesan (finocchi gratinati)Emilia-Romagna is the region of prosciutto di Parma, parmesan cheese, fresh egg pasta and creamy sauces. Bologna has been famous for its gastronomy since the 12th century. Great feasts, with 30 different dishes and an extraordinary presentation (game birds dressed to look like they were still alive, their beaks set alight) were at their peak during the Renaissance and in the baroque period. Civic events still have the old- style pomp and grandeur. I attended one when I received an award from the Accademia Italiana della Cucina that seemed to have come out of a Renaissance print. It was in a great hall, there were long tables set in a square with a fantastic display of lemons and arrangements of feathered game and all kinds of foods in the centre. That is when I first ate this simple but sumptuous dish of baked fennel with cream and parmesan. I love it also for the memories it evokes.The Food of Italy by Claudia Roden (Vintage)Serves 41kg fennel bulbsSalt and black pepperButter, for greasing2-3 tbsp parmesan, grated300ml double cream1 Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/gas mark 6. Remove and discard the outer leaves of the fennel, quarter the bulbs and simmer in salted water until very tender, but not floppy.2 Drain well and arrange the pieces in one layer in a generously buttered baking dish. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and parmesan and pour the cream on top.3 Bake for 15-20 minutes or until golden brown. Serve sizzling hot.9 CampaniaRicotta pear tortaThis cake was originally made by the famous pastry chef, Salvatore De Riso in Minori on the Amalfi coast. De Riso is well-known for many desserts, but this particular torta, created in the late 1980s, has become popular all over Campania. I first tasted it in Capri and was blown away primarily by its beauty and the delicious combination of ricotta, pear and nuts, all complimenting each other perfectly. De Riso classically uses ground hazelnuts and flour for the base, but I wanted to make it gluten-free and so have swapped them for ground almonds, which hold the structure far better. These are also commonly found in the another iconic Campanian cake: the Torta Caprese. Traditionally, the cakes on the Amalfi coast are generously dusted with icing sugar, so be bold and give it that signature striking white topping.Nina Parker, Ninafood.comServes 10For the base5 eggs, 4 separated, 1 left whole190g unrefined caster sugar170g ground almonds1 tbsp rice flour½ tsp almond extractFor the filling250g ricotta cheese, drained of any water100ml whipping creamA few gratings of nutmegSeeds from ½ vanilla podZest of half a lemon70g unrefined caster sugarUnrefined icing sugar, for dustingFor the pears3 medium pears (approx 400g), peeled and cut into small cubes3 tbsp cold waterA few drops of lemon juice½ vanilla pod, seeds scraped, pod reserved1 tbsp golden caster sugarIcing sugar, for dusting1 Preheat the oven to 170C/335F/gas mark 3½. Grease two 25cm cake tins, lining them with baking parchment.2 First, make the base. Use an electric mixer to whip up the 4 egg whites until just light and fluffy, then slowly begin whipping in the sugar until it is all mixed in. In a separate bowl, lightly beat together the 4 egg yolks, 1 whole egg, almond extract, then the rice and almond flours. The mix will be a little dry, but do not worry. Use a spatula to beat in ¼ of the whisked whites; try to get rid of any lumps. Carefully add another ¼ of the whites and gently fold into the batter, continue until everything is well combined.3 Divide the mix between cake tins. Spread the batter out evenly and put in the oven on separate levels for about 25 minutes, or until they are light and springy to the touch, with a golden top. Remove them from the oven and leave to cool completely on a wire rack.4 While the cakes cool, begin cooking the pears. Add the diced pear to a saucepan on a medium heat, then stir in the rest of the pear ingredients. Stir every 2 minutes and leave to simmer for about 3-4 minutes, or until the pears have just softened. Then strain from their liquid, discard the vanilla skin. Leave to cool completely and keep in the fridge until needed.5 Now, for the ricotta cream. Mix together all the ingredients for the filling until it forms the consistency of whipped cream, which takes about 2 minutes in a mixer. Gently fold in the chilled pear pieces and spoon on to one of the cake bases. Evenly spread the ricotta cream over the cooled base, then place the remaining cake on top. Dust generously with icing sugar and serve. This cake keeps well in the fridge for around a day.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cook’s tip: You could also serve zabaione warm, drizzled over a slice of cake or apple tart, or poured over red berries in summer and baked apples in winter. Photograph: Kim Lightbody for the Guardian  10 Veneto Zabaione custard with amaretto biscuitsYou will find zabaione, in some shape or elaborate form, on the menu at almost every Venetian restaurant; but, like many Italian dolci, it is so pleasingly simple to make that I often serve it at home. Essentially, you whip egg yolks, sugar and copious quantities of marsala over a gentle heat, until they froth up into something resembling a custard, but is so much lighter and is fragrant with sweet alcohol.Skye McAlpine, Frommydiningtable.comServes 48 egg yolks100g caster sugar200ml marsala240g amaretti biscuits1 Pour the egg yolks and sugar into a large heatproof bowl and whisk until they become pale and fluffy, and have almost doubled in volume.2 Meanwhile, fill a saucepan with a around 5cm of water, set on a medium heat and bring to the boil. When the water begins to gallop, set the bowl with the eggs and sugar over it, and whisk vigorously. Take care not to let the water actually touch the bottom of the bowl, as this will cause the eggs to curdle and the custard to separate.3 Now, little by little pour in the marsala, whisking all the while and allowing the sauce to emulsify before you add any more wine. Keep whisking until you have a thick, yellow, frothy custard, then take it off the heat and set to one side to cool to room temperature, before chilling in the fridge.4 I serve the custard in glass tumblers (about 250ml capacity), but you could use small bowls or cocktail glasses, or perhaps serve in one big dish, rather like a trifle.5 Crumble ⅓ of the amaretti into each glass, spoon in half the custard, then top with another ⅓ of the biscuits. Spoon the rest of the custard over the layer of amaretti, and crumble the last of the biscuits on top. Chill in the fridge until you are ready to serve.