When is the right time to ask a parent or grandparent about their past? I mean really ask – taking an hour or two to discover their stories and unlock those precious memories. Too often the answer is never. In today’s frantic world, it can be impossible to find the time to do so until it’s too late.In 2010 I lost both my parents in a short space of time. During his last few years my dad had asked me for a dictaphone – he wanted to use the little time he had left to pass on as much knowledge as he could. This was also his way to ensure that his grandkids would one day be able to hear his voice and perhaps know him a bit better. It was during the darkest of days following my parents’ deaths that I had my “light bulb moment” – the idea that would become Kindeo, a startup I co-founded with my business partner Seb Royce in June 2014. We decided to create an app that would enable people to simply and securely record their memories and stories, all in one place: building a permanent digital record of their life that could be shared with family and friends for years to come.Could online apps help save indie bookshops? People in their 70s are now the fastest growing group of tech users, with the number of Facebook users over 55 growing by 80% from 2011 to 2014. We’d stumbled upon a market of huge unexplored potential.But how do you turn an idea into a digital product that people trust and want to engage with? The key is to work with experts, test your product and adapt it based on the feedback from target users. Luckily for us, we met a London-based technology design studio called Hive, who work with some of the world’s biggest corporations, but also with startups and entrepreneurs whose ideas they believe in. It was incredible to see our app being built by designers and engineers who usually work with the likes of Google and Microsoft.We decided to start small – initially rolling out the app to 250 families for a private beta test. This approach gave us the chance to explore the data analytics and personal user feedback on the experience – meaning that we could refine and optimise the app before we launched nationwide. We discovered that compared to younger audiences, older users have less patience and crave simplicity from their tech. They want easy to navigate software that is not patronising. Like any business, the customers are the driving force behind what we do, so if they didn’t like the experience the business would fail. Taking the time to properly test the product and trust the feedback of users was the only way to ensure it was up to scratch.Hiring through Tinder got my business going with a bang Since we launched the business at the start of this year and following further recent investment, we’re now valued at £4m. I want to see us grow and reach more people. My dream is to partner with charities like Age UK and Alzheimer’s Research UK to help those suffering from life-changing illnesses – preserving the stories of those with greatest need.Kindeo was born out of great personal sadness and loss – coupled with regret for all the parts of my parents’ lives that I never had the time to discover, all the stories left untold. I feel very proud that we’ve created something that could have a positive impact on families all over the world, bringing them closer together and giving them a greater understanding of who they are and where they have come from. That’s something I’ll never regret.Sign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.