Two of the chicken abattoirs at the heart of a Guardian investigation in to levels of food contamination in fresh British chicken have been visited by inspectors from the Food Standards Agency at the request of the health secretary.Their arrival came after Jeremy Hunt intervened publicly on Thursday to demand the FSA carry out a proper investigation at two factories in Scunthorpe and Llangefni, Anglesey, which are owned by the UK's largest chicken processing company 2 Sisters Food Group.The firm released a statement on Monday saying the FSA investigators, who spent Friday at the factories, had rated Scunthorpe as "good" and Llangefni as "generally satisfactory".The 2 Sisters statement appeared to take the FSA by surprise. The regulator confirmed the headline results of "good" and "generally satisfactory" given to the two factories by its inspectors but told the Guardian that the written report was not available.Official government aAuditors arrived at the 2 Sisters sites the day after the Guardian investigation was published. They had already been the subject of emergency audits by three leading retailers the previous week.It is estimated that two-thirds of all fresh chicken on sale in UK supermarkets carries the potentially deadly campylobacter bug. 2 Sisters also said that the FSA had released new quarterly figures on the poultry industry's campylobacter rates at the point of sale on supermarket shelves. It said these had found that 15.4 per cent of the company's chickens fell in to the heavily contaminated category, an improvement of nearly four per cent on the last quarterly data.However, the FSA said that it had not published any new quarterly results on contamination levels. These and its full inspection report will be published in due course. The agency declined to say whether its inspection had included any forensic analysis of recent production data that would reveal how much time was available for cleaning between shifts or of all of the incidents the whistleblowers had described.Undercover footage, photographic evidence and information from whistleblowers revealed how strict industry hygiene standards to prevent the contamination of chicken can be flouted on the factory floor and on farms. The allegations included that:• Chickens that fall on to the floor have repeatedly been put back on to the production line at the two 2 Sisters sites supplying leading supermarkets and fast food restaurants, in Scunthorpe and in Llangefni, Wales. The firm denied this ever happened and said chicken from the floor is always disposed of as waste.• Breakdowns led to high-risk material – feathers, guts and offal – piling up for hours on separate occasions while production continued at Llangefni. The firm said it had to take the birds' welfare waiting to be slaughtered into consideration when deciding whether to stop the production line.• Another breakdown at the same site led to water in the scald tanks not being cleaned for days. The company said this only affected one day's cleaning and that bacteria counts were checked and were satisfactory.•a whistleblower told us that when auditors were present the Welsh factory lines would be slowed down and chickens dropped on the floor would go into waste bins, but when auditors were not present the line would be faster and carcasses from the floor would be put back in to production. The company said it was subject to numerous unannounced as well as announced audits and that no hygiene issues had been identified in at any time.At crisis meetings held last Thursday at the Welsh plant, sources told the Guardian, senior management described a list of measures being taken to clean up the factory and change the way it had been working, following a 4.30am visit by Tesco auditors that had found failings. They said these included bringing in several extra cleaners, slowing down production lines, ensuring production stops more promptly at night so there is sufficient time for cleaning, and stopping slaughter when breakdowns occur.Ranjit Singh, CEO of 2 Sisters Food Group, said: "We welcomed these audits and we are pleased the FSA has worked with typical rigor and thoroughness. We are satisfied with their findings which show that no legislative compliance issues were raised. However, we must not be complacent. We operate our business in an environment of continual improvement and we will be carrying on with that to ensure we produce first-class British products for all of our customers.We will continue to be at the forefront of our sector by investing in our sites and leading from the front in tackling key challenges to our industry like campylobacter."