Born in Luton, Nadiya Hussain, 31, won the 2015 Great British Bake Off. This year, she published her first cookbook and a children’s book, and made BBC1 show, The Chronicles Of Nadiya, which took her back to Bangladesh, from where her family originates. In November, she will judge Junior Bake Off. She is married with three children and lives in Milton Keynes.When were you happiest? My children’s births, and when I won the Bake Off.What is your greatest fear? Drowning. I jumped off a 30ft diving board for a dare once and it wasn’t fun.What is your earliest memory? Meeting my best friend Shanain at Maidenhall primary school, Luton, when I was four.Which living person do you most admire, and why? My little sister Yasmin. She’s got congenital heart disease, but continues to smile regardless.What is the trait you most deplore in yourself? When I’m trying to get bread to prove, I am itching; I am so impatient.Property aside, what’s the most expensive thing you’ve bought? A very expensive dehydrator (it cost £30). I’ve made raisins, banana chips and apple chips with it so far. It’s so addictive, I’ll probably start drying my kids soon.What is your most treasured possession?My Bake Off trophy. It’s a crystal cake stand.What is your screensaver? A picture of the kids: Musa, nine, Dawud, eight, and Maryam, five.Who would play you in the film of your life? I am not as lithe as Halle Berry, but let’s go for her.What is top of your bucket list? To drive a really fast car. My Nissan Juke doesn’t go very fast.What is your favourite smell? Newborns. My sister’s having a baby soon; I’ll be round every day for a sniff.Angus Deayton: ‘When did I last cry? England 1 Iceland 2’ What did you want to be when you were growing up? An archaeologist, but I was told that you needed to be rich, so I became a medical dispatcher, prioritising which patients the doctors saw first.What is your guiltiest pleasure? Marmite crisps.What does love feel like? When somebody runs you a bath and orders a takeaway after a long day.Who would you invite to your dream dinner party? David Attenborough, Michael Jackson and Trevor McDonald: they are all people it would be amazing to feed.If you could go back in time, where would you go? To the Jurassic period with Musa, because he loves dinosaurs.When did you last cry, and why?Last week, when I dropped a mug on my foot.What keeps you awake at night? Trying to think of a recipe I’ve forgotten. I keep a notebook by my bed now.What song would you like played at your funeral? Wake Me Up Before You Go-Go by Wham!What is the most important lesson life has taught you?To scare yourself. When I am scared, I push myself and get the best out of myself.Tell us a joke What’s grey and see-through? An elephant in a carrier bag.Tell us a secret I am laughing at my own joke – that is how sad I am.