Hometown: Brighton.The lineup: Adam Hutchison (bass electric guitars, synthesisers), Sam Organ (guitar, synthesisers), Dave Morgan (drums).The background: Their perfect storm of rock, prog, psych, cosmic, tech metal and jazz fusion has earned comparisons to bands as stylistically, geographically and chronologically far-flung as Mahavishnu Orchestra and Mars Volta. The three members play, between them, about 33 instruments – from harmonium to slide guitar. “Sam and I have been used to multiple instruments since we were really young,” Hutchison confirms. “It allows for a wider sort of composition.” He and Organ, whose real name is Korg (that’s a keyboard joke), are trained drummers, which might account for the band’s rhythmic intricacy and idiosyncrasy. When they’re not messing with time signatures and pushing the limits of instrumental convention, Organ, Morgan and Hutchison work, respectively, at a record label, record store and as a freelance film-maker and composer – the latter’s finest hour was, through judicious editing and interpolation of music, “making a book launch during which people stood around drinking and eating cheese seem exciting and impactful”. Morgan, meanwhile, is the patient and fair diametric opposite of the elitist hipster jerkoff record store clerk, although Hutchinson hopes he surreptitiously forces customers to buy obscure prog albums: “Like when you go to a petrol station and they make you buy a bar of chocolate at the counter for £1.”The Physics House Band, who met at university, have released one EP, Horizons/Rapture, and are about to release another, Mercury Fountain. Recorded with Joel Magill and Raven Bush (Kate Bush’s nephew, of Syd Arthur marginal “fame”) at Wicker Studios, Kent, Mercury Fountain features synths and guitars, flutes and sax, vintage mics and Moogs, fashioning a sound that nods to ancient prog while being very much rooted in the here and now. It is more coherent than its predecessor, and works as a piece, even as it goes to extremes. “I was really influenced by The Incal, a graphic novel by the [film director] Alejandro Jodorowsky and French illustrator Jean Giraud [AKA Moebius],” Hutchinson explains. “The record is like a journey through the mind-space and astral plane using the analogy of diving into the Mercury Fountain – that’s the name of a sculpture that I randomly came across in Madrid. I was immediately taken by the way it looked like an alien insect spaceship looking over a pool of reflective mercury. It was a beautiful image and the record developed from there; the idea of going on this insane hallucinogenic journey through fury, violence, madness and bliss.”Hutchinson says the band get all sorts coming to their shows. For older fans, TPHB are a sort of throwback to the music of their youth, to Mahavishnu, King Crimson and Yes, while younger ones see them as a newer version of the Mars Volta. Both Mahavishnu and Mars Volta have reputations as fearsome virtuosos. How good are TPHB?“We’re reasonably proficient,” he offers, modestly. They are fast building reputations of their own for their dazzling dexterity. The comedian and renowned alt music fan Stewart Lee recently described them as “a super-dense sci-fi mindfuck of a thing … with squally spacerock guitars, dub-boom bass and multi-time-sig clatter”. From the surging space rock of Möbius Strip, fast and furious Obidant and the technically stunning transitions of Calypso (optimistically being issued as a single) , Mercury Fountain offers a feast of instrumental invention. No wonder dazed gig veterans wander backstage to express their awe. “They go, ‘That reminded me of seeing Mahavishnu back in ’74,’” says Hutchinson. TPHB’s biggest gigs to date have been supporting their heroes Mono and Jagga Jazzist. And there was one where they opened for Alt-J. “Actually, they invited us to open for them early on, at this small show in Brighton, and we got on really well. Then they got huge and they invited us to open for them again, for their album launch show, and they probably forgot what we sounded like, ’cos we started playing this intense dub-jam at the end of one of our songs and the audience were in shock.”What’s the weirdest thing he’s seen from the stage at one of their shows?“When we play a new song and see people doing the prog hand dance with their fingers, counting the odd time signature and hitting every change – how the fuck do they know?” he says. “It’s fun seeing people absolutely losing their shit, going into [mimes sound of orgasmic rapture] for Dave or me or Sam doing an instrumental fill, like they’ve just watched the Beatles. It’s quite heartening.” The buzz: “A super-dense sci-fi mind-fuck of a thing” – Stewart Lee.The truth: Set the controls for the art of the stun. Most likely to: Have the right chemistry. Least likely to: Study biology. What to buy: Mini-album Mercury Fountain is released on 21 April by Small Pond.File next to: King Crimson, Radiohead, Yes, Mars Volta. Link: physicshouseband.bandcamp.com.Ones to watch: Nytclub, Willie J Healey, Aadae, Tuvaband, Jungle Brown. 