It’s time to talk of shadowy things and dark secrets, of hidden corners and basement courtyards; the sun may be out on the rest of the world, but down here it’s all cast in shade.I like more and more to garden in these places. I like the challenges that come with those that thrive in such adverse conditions, and there are plenty: woodland species that make the most of what little sunlight hits the leaf litter; ferns that like dripping cave mouths and cliff faces cast in gloom; and small shrubs that eke out a living under bigger things, such as butcher’s broom (Ruscus aculeatus) and fragrant sweet box (sarcoccoca).But what will grow in the tiniest of spaces, the thinnest of planting strips and the smallest of shaded balconies? As you are working largely with various greens, texture becomes very important in deep shade. For instance, you want to contrast the glossy with something feathery and soft, and don’t be afraid of going really dark. Black mondo (Ophiopogon planiscapus ‘Nigrescens’) has deep purple grass-like blades that work wonders with Athyrium filix-femina ‘Frizelliae’, a textured, mid-green lady fern that has thin fronds, each pinna (the divisions of the frond) shaped like a pearl, so that the whole leaf resembles a green necklace.If you have crevices, crumbling walls or fractured concrete, try maidenhair spleenwort (Asplenium trichomanes), with its glossy bright green oval pinnae and purplish black stems. It grows to 30cm high and about the same wide, but will thrive as a small plant in cracks half that size.Ferns look best when you replicate their natural habitat, where they tend to pop out of places, so use them dotted about among other things. Add white bleeding heart (Lamprocapnos spectabilis ‘Alba’), mayflower (Anemonella thalictroides), with its clusters of anemone-like white flowers in early summer, or low-growing wild gingers (Asarum canadense or Asarum europaeum), with round, shiny leaves that create a carpet in rich, moist soil.Don’t go potty: follow these rules at the nursery | Alys Fowler If you have more space, the mossy soft shield fern (Polystichum setiferum ‘Plumosum Densum’) has wonderful, feathery, finely divided, light green fronds. Its unfurled ends as they emerge are brilliant silver and look good against glossy greens. I also like the maidenhair fern Adiantum aleuticum ‘Imbricatum’; its wiry black stems have fronds that radiate out like spreading fingers.Underplant these with dark-leaved violas – Viola riviniana Purpurea Group or V. ‘Queen Charlotte’ – or set against the base of ivy, such as Hedera helix ‘Green Ripple’, or the self-clinging climbing hydgrangea Pileostegia viburnoides.For these plants to thrive, they need to be well cared for. Organic matter is the answer: well-rotted compost, composted bark, spent mushroom compost or leaf mould – the more the merrier. Organic matter has great water-holding capacity; like a natural sponge, it can soak up masses and release it as the plant requires. There’s no need to dig it in, just mulch as often as you can.