As a child, I was obsessed with ornamental birds and chickens. I would ask to go to Chatsworth House to see the Duchess of Devonshire’s poultry; and as a young teenager, I worked at a place called Newstead Abbey, which has peacocks. My love of colour and being outdoors led me into gardening. While I was learning the technical side at Kew Gardens, I started visiting my gardening idol, Sarah Raven, at Perch Hill Farm in Sussex. I was incredibly lucky to have three months house-sitting for her there. I learned to combine colours and forms in a container, using the floristry rule of a central heart or filler and a taller horizon.It is essentially container gardening on a grand scale here at the Emma Bridgewater ceramics factory. I’m working with concrete, so I can’t dig down. Instead, I go up with raised beds and dustbins, and fill them with flowers in sultry, stained-glass colours. We are the only pottery with a cut-flower garden.From March to mid-November, we don’t buy flowers for the factory shop. Most of the plants start off in a couple of greenhouses on the roof directly above a kiln. This is great for germinating seeds in winter, but more of a challenge in summer. There is no room in the garden for plants to look past their best. I can’t give the public any room to say their sweet peas, or whatever, are better than mine. This year I have used a lot of open-centred dahlias such as ‘Totally Tangerine’ and cosmos – ‘Antiquity’, ‘Double Click Cranberries’ and my favourite ‘Rubenza’. We can all help save bees by growing flowers like these, and if we can save the bees there is a hope for the environment.Me and my garden: ‘It is our cat’s jungle’ As I mature as a gardener, I see the design value of foliage as a foil in a display. I am pleased with the strawberry sweetcorn, red millet and Panicum ‘Frosted Explosion’. Next year I want to incorporate golden hop, smoke bush and black elders.Emma’s husband, Matthew, shares my love of chickens. We keep Dutch and lavender pekin bantams that are attractive and ideal for a smaller garden. They do little damage to plants, but don’t lay many eggs. My ultimate garden would have a muddy island for flamingos to nest but for now, I show off with jazzy dahlias and gladioli.My favourite spotIronically, indoors. In the shop, when I have finished all the flower displays, I can catch up with the other staff. I am the only gardener here, but I am never lonely.• How does your garden grow? Email gardens@theguardian.com