Kate Daenke is sitting in the headteacher’s room at Homerton early years centre in Cambridge, recalling her childhood years at the nursery school. She remembers her headteacher and many hours spent playing in the generous garden that wraps around the building. “I genuinely do have happy memories of being here,” she says.One in 10 nursery schools in England face closure within months Now a mother of two, she left London and moved back to her home city to make sure her children had the same start that she enjoyed. Iris, four, is already at Homerton and thriving; sister Beatrix, two, will start in September. Daenke, a nurse, is pregnant with her third child, and is hoping against hope that the nursery will still be there for him or her too.Like many nursery schools, Homerton’s future is far from guaranteed. Since 1980 a third of local authority maintained nursery schools in England have closed, and despite their record of improving outcomes for the most deprived children, a survey suggests one in 10 of the remaining 400 believe they will have to shut by July.Newspapers and websites across the country have been reporting the threat facing nursery schools for weeks, from Lancashire to Birmingham and beyond. In Leicestershire, a consultation is under way about plans to close Countesthorpe Nursery and replace it with a bigger, governor-run nursery at a nearby primary school. The sector is watching developments closely.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Homerton early years centre, Cambridge. Photograph: Graeme Robertson for the GuardianHomerton centre, which is a maintained nursery school as well as a centre for the youngest children and their families, is hidden behind a residential street in the south of Cambridge. The entrance is decorated with flyers urging visitors to “save our nurseries”; inside, the children flit between classroom and garden, where there are bikes, a hammock, a willow tunnel, a playhouse and mud to mess about in.Every element of the child’s experience is carefully thought out – almost the first thing children learn is “the Homerton way” of putting on their coats. They lay the coat on the floor, put their arms in the sleeves, then flip the coat over their heads and go outside without asking for help.“One of the reasons we moved back from London was knowing this nursery school,” says Daenke. “It’s the foundation before you go to school. It sets you up. I’m seeing Iris grow and develop, having fun through play.” She says she will be devastated if her third child does not have the same opportunity.“To lose this would be terrible. It’s taking away so many opportunities from so many children. Surely we shouldn’t be cutting these wonderful things we’ve got?”My child blossomed at a state nursery – we can't let these places close Homerton’s assistant head, Alex Pearson, decided she wanted to work at the nursery after seeing her own children (now aged 17 and 19) flourish there. “I felt it was the best year of their education, and that’s why I ended up teaching here,” she says. “Every single child is cared for and cared about by very experienced members of staff who love their children, who follow their interests and support them in developing their learning.”The nursery schools movement began in the 1920s with the formation of the Nursery Schools Association under its first president, Margaret McMillan, a campaigner for children’s rights. Vice-presidents included the likes of Ramsay MacDonald and Bertrand Russell, and the 1929 election of a Labour government provided a boost to the movement. Nine nursery schools were opened in England, focused in areas where children were growing up in slums. Then, as the second world war threatened, more were opened in evacuation areas for children fleeing the cities. Homerton was one of those nurseries, opening in 1940 in the grounds of Cambridge University’s Homerton College, where it flourished for more than 20 years before moving to its current site in Holbrook Road.Few dispute the value of nursery schools – they provide high-quality early education, promote inclusion and improve long-term outcomes for children, particularly those from challenging backgrounds. Last week, the early years minister, Caroline Dinenage, paid tribute to their work during a packed meeting of the all-party parliament group (APPG) on nursery schools. In addition to teaching the children in their care, institutions such as Homerton share good practice with other providers in their area and offer teacher training.However, nursery schools are more expensive than other early years provision, principally because of the cost of employing qualified specialist teachers. At a time when the government is keen to promote social mobility, campaigners say nursery schools help close the attainment gap more effectively than any other part of the education system.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Homerton early years centre, Cambridge. Photograph: Graeme Robertson for the GuardianThe sector says it is facing a perfect storm – local authorities, which fund nursery schools, are grappling with huge cuts from central government. At the same time, the government has introduced a new early years funding formula, due to come into force in April, to support its offer of 30 hours of free childcare to working parents, which kicks in five months later.Under the formula, Homerton’s budget would be cut from £412,000 to £233,000, which Pearson says would make it impossible to run the school. The government has pledged more than £55m in transitional funding to support nursery schools as they adapt to the new formula, but no one knows quite how it will be divided up and what will follow. Many still don’t know how much they will be getting in the next financial year beginning in April.The government says it is spending an unprecedented £6bn on early years and conducting a consultation on nursery schools to help ensure their survival. The fear is that to survive schools will be required to reinvent themselves as sustainable businesses. “But we are not a business,” says Pearson. “We are in the business of educating. We are not in the business of money.”Former shadow education secretary Lucy Powell is the chair of APPG on nursery schools. While she supports the government’s aim of helping parents get back to work by providing free childcare, she says it should not be at the cost of early years education, which has been shown to close the developmental gap. “We are at a crossroads,” she says. “And it seems to be very much going towards childcare needs rather than quality early years education.” A debate on nursery funding is planned for Wednesday in Westminster Hall.Like the Homerton centre, Robert Owen nursery school in east Greenwich, London, has a rich history – and a similarly uncertain future. It, too, was established during the war to enable families to work in the Royal Arsenal munitions factory and moved to its current site on the Greenwich peninsula in 2000. With continuous access to indoor and outdoor space, the children look happy as they dig in the mud and want to share their achievements with staff and visitors.Children should learn mainly through play until age of eight, says Lego Robert Owen has 164 equivalent full-time places and offers part-time, full‑time and extended day places according to need. It hopes to expand to meet the needs of a growing local population; a high proportion of children at the nursery have special educational needs, and it educates and cares for some of the most deprived children in the area.It’s not just childcare, says the school’s headteacher, Ruth Mercer – it’s a school that provides specialist early years education, and funding should reflect that. “We will probably be OK for the next three years, but that will go very, very quickly, so what happens after that? Yes we are more expensive, but it’s about the investment early on to save money later.”Felicity Higginson has been an early years teacher for 16 years and is horrified at the prospect of more nursery schools closing. She shows me around the garden at Homerton, pointing out what the children enjoy most. “As a nursery school teacher, I’m passionate about it. It’s the one area of education where you are allowed to focus on the individual, the whole child, and you are not being driven by exam results. This will be lost if our funding is not maintained. What sort of society wants to give their youngest and their most vulnerable a less good opportunity than their parents had?“We are a beacon. If we go, the light will go out for a lot of other people.”