As I type, little crunching sounds are coming from my keyboard: I’m sorry to say that there are toast crumbs in it, again. I am a fiend for bread. I like it toasted to a deep, mottled bronze, spread liberally with salted butter and Marmite for the first slice (the main toast course) and blackcurrant jam for the second slice (toast dessert). Sometimes, I’ll let the butter speak for itself, leaving it alone to pool in puddles of molten gold, while, at other times, I heap on beans, cheese, eggs – you name it – in cheerful extravagance. I am happy enough to start my day with toast, but when it really delights me is when it is smuggled in between meals and under cover of darkness: little can beat the comfort of buttered toast and honey, a blanket and some crap TV on a cold winter evening. Pretty much anything goes when it comes to my toast, but there are two non-negotiables: the butter must be generously spread and the bread has to be the cheap, pillowy, sweet, soft, perfect supermarket sliced white.The roaring sliced-bread trade in my house is clearly the exception to the rule, though. The popularity of the humble sliced white has been flagging for decades, with sales of white bread down by 75% since 1974. Bowie is dead, Brexit has clobbered us and, just when you thought life couldn’t get much bleaker, fate has come for our sarnies.What are we all eating, then? Alternatives to traditional loaves, such as sandwich thins and wraps, are doing well, with sales up 16% in the past year, while the success of Warburtons – the only one of the big three names in bread to show growth at the start of 2016 – can probably be attributed in no small part to its trendy gluten- and dairy-free Newburn Bakehouse range.There is a boom, too, in sales of sourdough, the strangeness, cragginess and £4-a-loaf price tag of which set it apart from the soft supermarket loaf. Bolstered by movements such as the Real Bread Campaign, sourdough has established itself as a symbol of foodie belonging. You are not a real baker unless you have a jar of decade-old fermenting mulch in your kitchen, apparently; it is not a real loaf unless the crusts break your teeth. In a twist that shocked even the most earnest sourdough enthusiasts, a woman made headlines in 2015 by using small amounts of her vaginal yeast in an attempt to get her sourdough starter off to a flying start. If that doesn’t have you hankering for the safe simplicity of a loaf of sliced white, I don’t know what will.Sandwiches are toast: why we swapped sliced bread for wraps and salads These sourdough loaves, crusty ryes and featherweight sandwich thins are great for what they are, but I can’t help mourning the demise of the sliced loaves they have ousted. What about slapping a handful of thick, vinegar-doused chips between two slices of bread spread with butter and ketchup? Are you supposed to have your Campbell’s Cream of Tomato soup with a hunk of heavy spelt bread? How can I enjoy my egg and soldiers when each little soldier is costing me a fortune in dense, rye-bread chewiness? Sometimes, only cheap white bread will do.There is little point in trying to argue the aesthetic virtues of sliced bread, though, in an age where wellness is the order of the day. This is a food culture where lightness and “clean” eating are the markers of wealth; good taste doesn’t really enter into it. Sure, the average supermarket sliced bread has salt in it, and a little sugar. Yes, choosing a wholemeal loaf from time to time will give you some of the fibre you need in your diet, while a seeded bread will boost your intake of protein and healthy fats. Of course, you shouldn’t have bread for breakfast, lunch and dinner. But a lot of bread’s bad press recently hasn’t been about these finer details, but instead striking the very core of what bread is: this is a war on wheat, and it is health food personalities such as the Hemsley sisters (who, for no good reason, crumb their fish fingers in ground almonds and helped to popularise faux-pasta aberration courgetti, or courgette spaghetti) who are at the helm.Luckily, fashions come and go, and today’s scourge will probably be tomorrow’s superfood. For the Victorians, white bread was a marker of quality and prestige. For us, its very popularity has seen it relegated to the status of junk food. The tide will change soon enough. Those crying for a return to some mythic purity, where bread was made by bearded men who crushed the wheat to flour in their rugged fists and mixed it only with water, sincerity and sweat, will remember one day soon that sometimes only the softness, fakest, most chemical-packed white bread does the trick. In the meantime, I will be here relaxing and, while the naysayers condemn “heavy”, “nasty”, “processed” sliced bread, eating the most divinely cloud-like, tender, perfect piece of toast. It really is the greatest thing.