In December, David Cameron joined 195 other leaders to promise ambitious action on climate change. Achieving the Paris goals requires leaving most of the world’s fossil fuel reserves in the ground. A first step must be to stop subsidising fossil fuel production. Wednesday’s budget is an acid test of the government’s Paris commitment. In last year’s budget, the chancellor gave £1.3bn in new tax breaks and direct funding to the oil industry. The UK Treasury receives a smaller share of oil revenues than most other comparable countries. Meanwhile, the government has exempted a whole new fossil-fuel industry – fracking – from half of its tax, despite huge local opposition wherever it is proposed.The government has slashed support for wind and solar energy, costing thousands of jobs. Yet its free-market rationale does not apply when it comes to the oil and gas industry, which has received continued government support even in times of super-normal profits. The chancellor has to change course. He should scrap subsidies that keep the British economy hooked on fossil fuels, and instead set out a strategy to help communities currently dependent on fossil fuel jobs to diversify and to rebuild around world-leading clean technology.Craig Bennett CEO, Friends of the Earth, England, Wales & Northern Ireland Marc Stears Chief executive, New Economics FoundationElizabeth Bast Acting executive director, Oil Change InternationalPeter Wooders Programme leader, Global Subsidies Initiative, International Institute for Sustainable Development Mika Minio-Paluello Coordinator, Platform• In your article on the alarming rise in global temperatures, you quote Professor Rahmstorf from the Potsdam Institute of Climate Impact Research, who said that “we are in a kind of climate emergency now” (February global temperature ‘shockingly’ high, say scientists, 15 March). He is, of course, correct, and so we urgently need to implement an effective response.The obvious way to do this would be to cut global greenhouse emissions now, but electorates are still utterly unwilling to accept the radical lifestyle changes we need to achieve this. No western government would dare double petrol prices or remove our ability to repeatedly fly abroad for holidays. No developing-country leaders are going to tell their people they can never have a western lifestyle.The only politically feasible solutions are technological ones, such as carbon scrubbing and geoengineering. Therefore, David Cameron and other world leaders need to start making a massive investment in those areas now, possibly funded by an international financial transactions tax. Otherwise, we do face disaster.Richard MountfordTonbridge, Kent• The chief executive of the Road Haulage Association (Budget 2016: Osborne to cut an extra £4bn, 14 March) is guilty of some very selective arithmetic. If an RPI increase in fuel duty represents an increase of £450 per truck per year, then the 40p drop in fuel prices we have enjoyed over the last few years represents a decrease of £24,000 per truck. I wonder how many hauliers have reduced their prices to reflect this.The low fuel prices are a heaven-sent opportunity for the chancellor to raise some serious revenue. If the RPI 0.75p rise would bring in £345.5m, then a 20p rise could raise over £9bn with motorists and hauliers still better off than when prices reached their peak. That would save a great deal of pain elsewhere in the economy.Keith PotterGunnislake, Cornwall• The proposed CMA reforms in the gas and electricity distribution sector are a grave disappointment (Report, 11 March); its intention to “enable competition to grow further” may be misguided. We don’t need another layer of expensive administration the costs of which will inevitably be passed on to consumers. And it will take too long to implement.Since nationalisation, this industry has lost its moral compass and become more concerned with maximising shareholder profit than providing a minimal cost reliable service. The intention of encouraging consumers to migrate to cheaper deals is admirable, but it is optimistic to believe that this will lead to lower overall costs rather than merely redistributing the same total billing charges over the same customers.Would it not have been simpler, easier and quicker to make each major supplier improve the lot of their own existing customers that have been on a standard variable tariff (SVT) for say more than two years by moving them on to that company’s best fixed one-year tariff? The suppliers could be mandated to make this move within six months and to maintain such customers on a similarly priced fixed tariff for at least four further years. The current practice of migrating customers at the termination of a fixed price period on to a SVT unless the customer makes an effort to stay on a better tariff should be banned. The default should be to move them to another reasonably priced term tariff.Iain Oldcorn Ascot, Berkshire• It has been said that the Hinkley Point imbroglio has led to a missed opportunity to install the equivalent capacity over the period up to 2024, probably at lower cost as with power actually becoming steadily available over the construction period (Hinkley Point is a costly mistake, but only France can pull the plug, 14 March).As it happens, the current cost per megawatt of providing wind and solar power is about the same as that for building Hinkley Point. But as the sale price for Hinkley Point output is inflation-proofed by the government up to 2092, wind and solar power are certain to continue coming down from today’s prices.It is of course true that wind and solar cannot be relied on for continuous electricity in all weather conditions. But nuclear power has consistently failed to function at the levels of baseload for which it has been designed. And that also requires back-up reserve plants, thus improving the relative performance of the alternative fuels.Wind and solar power consume fuel that is cost-free, and therefore uses 100% of its potential, whereas nuclear and fossil power wastes about a third of its fuel. They also lose a large proportion of the remaining two thirds in transmission costs from generating plants over long distance to connect with the grid. Wind and solar power coming from smaller generating plants can and should be connected to local networks and will therefore be able to reduce losses in transmission. This will also reduce the length, cost and viability of any new pylon lines.Thus, had we committed ourselves to a 10-year programme of non-nuclear electricity, we would have achieved a steady increase in output and eliminated the risk of the lights going out with the stubborn persistence in choosing Hinkley Point.Harvey ColeWinchester, Hampshire• In his article on Hinkley Point, your journalist writes “business solutions are often described as zero-sum, or win-win”. In fact, zero-sum (+1 -1) means the opposite: one winner, one loser.Professor Brian VickersLondon • Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com