We know you are an ex-model yourself, but can you tell us to what extent your Geek Girl books are autobiographical – ie are you actually Geek Girl heroine Harriet Manners? Nope. Harriet is herself - she turned up with her own name, her own voice, her own looks and way of moving or reacting - but I’d be lying if I said we weren’t similar. I’ve lived with her for nearly a decade, now, and she’s much more like my daughter: in some ways we are identical, and in others our differences take me by surprise. But - like most writers - I do sprinkle things that have happened to me throughout the books, I use my memories of how I felt as a teenager to write it, and the seed of the idea was something that happened to me. And while 95% of the scenes are totally imaginary, all the emotions are real. Pain, heartbreak, love in all its guises, homesickness, loneliness, joy, pride: they’re all things I’ve experienced and used as the bones of my books. I just dress that emotional skeleton with the clothes of fiction.Holly Smale: It’s dangerous to think that because feminism is familiar it means we’ve 'done it' Harriet is a “geek”- who is very open and proud of it. When writing the books, was it one of your main goals to show your readers how important it is to be true to themselves? Absolutely. From the moment Harriet came bursting into my head, Geek Girl was a story about being yourself, no matter what. It’s essentially a traditional Coming of Age tale about a young girl getting to grips with who she is, what she wants and what she’s capable of, and learning to be proud of everything that comes with that: both good and bad. But it’s not just about Harriet: it’s also about the people around her celebrating themselves too, geeky or not. Those teenage years are so pivotal in forming who you eventually become, and I’ve adored going with Harriet on that journey.With recent fashion trends such as “norm core” and “granny chic”, do you think that 2016 could be the year of the nerd? I think every year is the year of the nerd. It’s not a fashion, it’s not a trend. It’s a state of being - of curiosity, of passion, of intelligence - and that will never go out of style, even if now and then it comes into it.Geek Girl offers a new and exciting role model for girls across the country. Who was your main female fictional idol in childhood? It was a tie between Anne Shirley from Anne of Green Gables and Arrietty from The Borrowers; I loved them both so much I think I absorbed them unintentionally and Harriet is the end result. I adored how fierce Arrietty was, how adventurous and how brave: that she didn’t care if she was a “girl” (amazing, given when it was written), she just wanted to see the world, explore and find out more about everything. And Anne was so complicated and real: so overly verbose, earnest, imaginative, fragile yet strong, bad-tempered yet sweet. If Harriet means to anyone what those two girls have meant to me, I think my job as a writer is done.Holly Smale: I think people are starting to embrace what being 'a geek' actually means How important do you think fashion is in the world today? Fashion is both important and powerful, but it is there to be played with. Used correctly and in the right spirit, it can be fun and beautiful: it can empower, unite, express identity creatively and give great joy and happiness. But wielded in the wrong way it can also become a weapon used to shame, isolate, exclude, oppress and demean. I’d like to think - or I hope - that we’re moving slowly away from the latter. There should be no right or wrong way to dress: only a celebration of who you are as an individual person.If you could choose one of your characters (apart from Harriet) to talk to for a day, who would it be? Annabel. She is so wise and so all-knowing. I feel like she could answer any question I have about anything, and she would always be right. She’s the Gandalf of the Geek Girl series. What has been your favourite highlight in your writing career so far? Near the very beginning of my career - when my first book had just published - I got a letter from the mum of an 11-year-old girl. She said her daughter had just started secondary school and had been struggling enormously: she couldn’t make friends, she was being picked on and she felt very alone and isolated. After finishing Geek Girl, she decided that “if Harriet can do it, I can too”, marched in the next day, joined the Chess Club, embraced her “geekiness” and made friends. And the mum wanted to thank me, because her daughter was smiling again for the first time in weeks.I’m not going to lie: it’s nice being a bestselling author. The glamorous elements of it can be a lot of fun and incredibly rewarding. But that was the moment I realised that maybe my books might actually help a few children to be a little happier and a little less lost than I was, and I don’t think anything that happens in my career will ever mean more to me than that.Writing a funny book is difficult, so what are your tips for any young aspiring writers who want to write a book like Geek Girl which is based on comedy? Everyone has a subtly different sense of humour, it’s very personal and very individual, and it’s scary: falling flat with a joke is infinitely more terrifying than failing to make somebody cry when you want them to. The key is not to care or chase a particular audience. Write what makes you laugh: what ends up with you giggling at your desk or snorting as you scribble it down. Relax, have fun, and don’t worry if you think your sense of humour is too niche, surreal or bizarre for anyone else to really get. Let your freak flag fly, make yourself giggle and the right audience will find you.Do you have any type of mascot or perform some kind of ritual for luck before write a new book? I’m not a very superstitious person: I don’t have a particular teddy-bear or mantra or chant or special knickers with a panda on them or anything (although I’d quite like some). But I almost always have a light on and a candle lit next to me for the entirety of the time I’m writing, even during the daytime. I think it keeps me upbeat and a little bit less lonely, because writing a novel can be a very solitary and long job. I get through a LOT of candles and electricity. I’m just generally a fire hazard.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Holly Smale second to the right at YALC 2015, talking about feminism with Laura Dockrill, Malorie Blackman, Hayley Long, CJ Daugherty and chair Anna James. Photograph: Megan QuibelWhat is the most interesting place that you have ever visited and why? I’ve been so lucky to see so many fascinating parts of the world, but Japan’s my favourite. I lived there for two years while I worked as a teacher of English to Japanese children, so it’s the only foreign country I’ve ever stopped feeling like a tourist in. I played janken with kindergarteners, ate natto with their parents, chatted in very poor Japanese with highly amused old ladies in onsens. It became my home, and I understood and grew to love and appreciate the culture in a way I’ve never been able to anywhere else, before or since. It’s also the most beautiful, fascinating, complex and geographically diverse country I’ve ever been to. A bit of me is still there, and I miss it daily.What next for Harriet Manners? Can you let us into a secret about the next book?Sunny Side Up is coming out in the summer - it’s about Paris Fashion Week, so it’s obviously set in Paris - but without ruining too much I can reveal that there’s a secret section at the back, written from another character’s perspective. It’s the first time I’ve done that in Geek Girl history, and I had so much fun doing it: it was a joy from start to finish. I’m not going to say who it is, just yet, but let’s just say that I think big Geek Girl fans are going to be very, very happy about it.How many more Geek Girl books will there be?There will be six main books in total, which means there’s just one more to go. I’ll never shut it down completely though - Harriet’s too alive for me and I love her too much - so there’s a good chance I’ll come back to it in the future, when she’s a bit older. No promises but I’m already mulling on ideas, so we’ll see!How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? Would you consider writing a Geek Girl prequel?I actually pencilled out the draft of a prequel a while ago - and I may flesh it out - but it’s only a short story. Geek Girl starts at the point where Harriet’s adventure really begins - where she starts growing up - and so it feels like the right place to meet her. Thanks to cherryontop, GeorgiaOwl2, Ayesha and HGirl1000 for these brilliant questions! Do you want to interview your favourite author? Join the site and you might get the chance! All Holly Smale’s fabulous Geek Girl series are available to buy from the Guardian bookshop: Geek Girl, Model Misfit, Picture Perfect, All That Glitters and her latest (and fifth in the series): Head Over Heels. There is also a Christmas special All Wrapped Up and summer special due out this summer: Sunny Side Up. You can see Holly Smale live at the Hay festival this year, interviewed by the Guardian children’s books site’s very own Emily Drabble at 5:30pm on Saturday 28 May at The Starlight Stage, Hay festival. Book tickets here.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 