In the elegant second floor gallery of Manhattan’s Grolier Club, a haven for serious-minded rare book collectors, Mindell Dubansky presents something novel: her collection of blooks.You read that right. Blooks is an abbreviation of “book-look”, what she further describes as “a thing that looks like a book, but isn’t one”. From book-shaped biscuit tins to books made of stone, her exhibit, Blooks: The Art of Books That Aren’t, is the first major survey of the decidedly quirky – but utterly delightful – topic. Dubansky, a preservation librarian at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, has been collecting blooks for about 20 years. The discovery, at a flea market, of a late 19th-century blook made out of coal to commemorate the death of a Pennsylvania miner, prompted her to collect fake books in earnest. Since then she’s been rummaging junk shops and trawling eBay in search of her treasure, paying as little as $5 and as much as $1,200. “I am actively collecting and can’t imagine ever stopping,” she said. “I look everywhere.” She also writes a blog called About Blooks.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A book-shaped pocket-lantern, circa 1830. Photograph: MIndell Dubansky/The Metropolitan Museum of ArtAnyone paying attention to red-carpet trends in the past decade has had an eyeful of “book purses,” those bookish clutches with zippered or clasped edges. (Yes, Dubansky has one too, a book-shaped, Swarovski crystal-encrusted Judith Leiber handbag that her boyfriend bought for her.) But while some of the blooks in her collection are clearly novelty items – like Avon Classics men’s after-shave stashed inside a package designed à la the Harvard Classics – there is much more to the story.The current display of 130 faux books covers both sculptural and functional blooks. They have been organized into 14 themes, including religious blooks (a maple sugar mold in the shape of a Bible, circa 1820), household blooks (a mid-century book-shaped alarm clock made by Lava Simplex, better know for its lava lamps), and gags (exploding blooks containing paper caps triggered upon opening). The most common use of the form is secret storage – there are book-shaped banks and safes to deposit money or stow secret documents, as well as book-shaped flasks, to hide your habit. One handsome leather-bound blook decorated with gold tooling is really a lady’s compact, concealing powder, rouge and a mirror. Another, titled The Informer, is a motion-detector alarm camouflaged in a maroon cloth-bound book.And even those are “only the tip of the iceberg in terms of available blooks”, said Dubansky. “It is intended to introduce the subject in the broadest way as far as my collection allows.” What’s missing from the show, she noted, are the bulkier blooks – pieces of fine art in book form, architectural objects, stage sets and furniture. Her collection numbers around 600. “The use of the book motif, especially the codex, in the design of objects has existed for over a thousand years,” Dubansky writes in the sumptuously illustrated, full-color catalogue she self-published to coincide with the exhibit. The mass appropriation and commercialization of the book form is part of her fascination with the subject. Although there are a few private collectors of blooks out there and several institutions have acquired examples, these objects have been largely “under the radar” as a field of study, even though they have obvious correlation to material culture and to the slightly newer discipline, book history.“I don’t think that rare book collectors took blooks seriously as things to be collected on a par with rare books,” she said. “They considered them (and they still might) as kitsch.”“I think I’m the first to point out the huge scope of this subject. I’m hoping to get book history scholars to take blooks seriously and consider their role in the history of the book, which I think is a parallel history.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A table lighter, disguised as The Book of Smoking Knowledge, circa 1960s. Photograph: MIndell Dubansky/The Metropolitan Museum of ArtAside from sharing her exuberance about blooks (and books) with others, Dubansky is trying to excavate the subtext of the appeal of these books that aren’t books. She wants to understand why the book form is so appealing to marketers, packagers, artists, and, perhaps most importantly, to buyers. To that end, she will lead a related panel discussion at the Grolier Club on 2 February, with fellow collectors Bruce and Lynn Heckman, who specialize in North American spruce gum blooks, and Rutgers University professor of English Lynn Festa, who is interested in “what ‘book-look objects’ have to tell us about the nature of the book as a physical object: its properties as a material thing as well as word-based text”.“Some blooks – the game boards disguised as books, for example – are perhaps trying to borrow from the relative prestige of the book to give idle pastimes great respectability,” Festa added. The exhibit remains on view at the Grolier Club in Manhattan through 12 March.