For almost half a century Peter Maxwell Davies was one of the great fixed points in the firmament of British music, one of its most respected and admired figures. Together with his contemporaries Alexander Goehr and Harrison Birtwistle, whom he had met while studying in Manchester in the 1950s, they gave a new direction to British musical culture in the 60s, one that instead of looking inwards, absorbed and learnt from musical developments elsewhere in Europe.Almost to the end of his life Maxwell Davies remained astonishingly prolific – so much so that his output was divided between three music publishers and took in almost every conceivable music genre. There were full-length operas and ballets, chamber and children’s operas, 10 symphonies, a dozen concertos, a raft of occasional pieces and much chamber music. And then there were the works he composed in the 60s and 70s for the performing group he founded, with Birtwistle as co-director, as the Pierrot Players in 1967, and re-formed under his sole directorship as the Fires of London three years later. Among those are some of his most enduring achievements, music as strikingly original as anything being composed in Europe at that time, including Eight Songs for a Mad King and Vesalii Icones, which, together with pieces by Goehr and Birtwistle from the same period effectively defined a new homegrown genre of music theatre. Orkney inspired softer-edged elements in his scores and brought an iridescent sheen into his soundworld Maxwell Davies’s music then was explicitly expressionist and confrontational. In his 1966 song cycle Revelation and Fall, a soprano dressed in a scarlet nun’s habit screams through a loudhailer, while – when it received its premiere at the 1969 Proms – Worldes Blis, his huge motet for orchestra, drove many from the hall. Like his first opera, 1972’s Taverner, this was music composed at white-heat, and in retrospect no composer could have maintained such intense creativity indefinitely.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Explicitly expressionist and confrontational’ … Maxwell Davies in London, July 1972. Photograph: Evening Standard/Getty ImagesThe first great stylistic shift in Maxwell Davies’s music came when he settled in Orkney in 1971; even though the inner steel and rigour of his writing remained intact, the history, landscape and literature of the islands, and the sea around it, inspired new, softer-edged elements in his scores and brought an iridescent sheen into his sound world.And then, after his First Symphony in 1976, his music began to shift its emphasis more decisively, towards a more orchestral way of writing, which over subsequent decades went hand in hand with his growing career as a conductor: he held posts at various times with the BBC and Royal Philharmonic, and the Scottish Chamber Orchestra. The flood of works that followed – the later symphonies, the series of Strathclyde Concertos, composed for the principals of the SCO – were immaculately crafted and wonderfully fluent, but there’s no doubt some of the freshness and originality had disappeared. What never disappeared was the almost boyish enthusiasm he brought to writing and making music Yet every so often Maxwell Davies could still produce a work that was startlingly effective, and which in its own way carried as much impact as any of the earlier scores. Two of the last substantial pieces to be heard in London, the opera about student protest Kommilitonen! and the 10th Symphony, premiered by the London Symphony Orchestra two years ago, stand comparison with almost anything in his output.What never disappeared, either, was the almost boyish enthusiasm Maxwell Davies brought to writing and making music, and to his involvement with those performing it. The St Magnus international festival, which he founded on Orkney in 1977, became a vital part of his musical life, and much of his music for children and amateur performers was first heard there. When he became master of the Queen’s music in 2004, he did not hesitate to speak out on the wider musical issues that mattered, just as he had never shrunk from addressing bigger political subjects in his own works, whether it was uranium mining in Orkney in the 70s or the second Iraq war. It’s thoroughly appropriate that the last large-scale piece he completed was a community and children’s opera, The Hogboon, which will receive its first performance at the Barbican in London in June; it’s based on an Orkney legend of supernatural beings who inhabit the prehistoric burial mounds that are found all over the islands, and who are entirely benign.