 Whenever ice comes it seems to change the world which makes it seem very powerful. Are there any good books about how ice changes things and in what way?Ice, like snow, changes the look and feel of the world and creates new possibilities. Its sudden arrival, and its extraordinary formation and transparency, give it a magical aura. It also creates new dangers – terrible dangers which are particularly risky because the ice itself is so attractive. And that’s all in the real world. In stories, ice is equally attractive and inspiring but its power to destroy is never far away; the very real jeopardy of ice is an excellent fictional tool. Children are always warned about NOT going on ice but sometimes ice can be the perfect way to enjoy something special.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest That’s certainly the case in Philippa Pearce’s classic Tom’s Midnight Garden. In it, Tom meets Hatty, a girl who lived in the same house but at a different time, and together the two skate from Cambridge to Ely, or Castleford as it is called in the novel. Philippa Pearce captures the magical “flying” sensation of skating and the curious, ethereal change that comes over the countryside when the water is frozen over and the river can be used as a path. Being on the ice places the two children in a world that doesn’t always exist; it’s a perfect kind of unreality and gives the episode a timeless quality, which is especially effective in this time-slip novel. In Arthur Ransome’s Winter Holiday the ice is an equally tempting and positive proposition; and one the children are longing for. Dick and Dorethea are newcomers to the Lake District and novices to the kind of adventures that can take place in it. They meet the Swallows and Amazons for the first time, and hope that in the remaining week of their school holiday the tarn will freeze over enough to become load bearing. As it is, while the tarn crackles with a thin layer of ice, it isn’t enough to hold anyone’s weight – as Nancy and Peggy find to their cost when they step onto it and get their feet soaked. Luckily, the weather gets colder and the tarn does become safe enough to skate on. Dick turns out to be a terrific skater; the ice provides him with a place where he can suddenly feel totally equal to the Swallows and Amazons who, in turn, develop a new respect for him and Dorethea – and immediately recognise their legitimate claim to a place on the Polar expedition. As Nancy Blackett puts it bluntly, “You teach me how to twiddle round and go backwards and I’ll teach you signalling.” As the cold intensifies so the ice grows. Soon the whole lake is frozen and, where the children once sailed to their adventures, they now skate and drag a sledge loaded with everything they need. The ice turns them into polar explorers with a new set of challenges and opportunities. As in Tom’s Midnight Garden, the ice is a new territory in which familiar hierarchies are broken down.The sheer fun of skating on provides the background for Katherine Holabird’s popular heroine Angelina Ballerina who has a happy time skating on a frozen pond in Angelina Ice Skates illustrated by Helen Craig. There is never any danger of the ice cracking; the only trouble comes from a pair of bully boys but Angelina soon gets them to join in the fun. There’s a similarly joyful feeling about the skating in Tara Lazar and Troy Cummings’s Little Red Gliding Hood which gives a new take to a traditional tale when a little girl tries to find a new skating partner for a competition and picks on one with vey big eyes and very sharp teeth… Nothing sinister happens on the ice in any of the books I’ve mentioned so far, but that is not always the case – in real life or fiction. Frequently, going on ice is an act of defiance or at least bravado so it is no surprise that it can be followed by terrible consequences.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In Emma Carroll’s atmospheric Frost Hollow Hall, Tilly is dared to go ice skating up at the big house. Frost Hollow Hall is rumoured to be haunted by the ghost of Kit Barrington, the son and heir, who died skating and Tilly has no desire to test the rumours to see if they are true. But she can’t resist Will’s dare. Setting off on the ice, all seems fine but, when the ice cracks, Tilly goes under and has a near-death experience from which she is miraculously saved. Who saves her? When Tilly sets out to find out who saved her she gets herself involved in a creepy and sad family drama about loss and forgiveness. Beyond individuals’ particular experiences, for whole communities, ice is typically seen as a sign of impending doom; a harbinger of a world coming brought to a temporary halt or even to an absolute end. Susan Cooper’s evocative The Dark Is Rising sequence charts a battle between the forces of light and dark. In the second novel which gives the whole sequence its name, 11-year-old Will Stanton discovers that he is the last of the Old Ones. As such, he must find defeat the forces of the Dark by finding the Signs of Light. Everyone knows that the forces of Dark are growing because of the increasing cold. Will is particularly aware of this and he notices his parents becoming increasingly serious. “The news on the radio grew worse and worse as the cold gripped the country and one restriction followed another. In all records of temperature Britain had never been so cold; rivers that had never frozen before stood as solid ice, and every port on the entire coast was iced in. People could do little more than wait for the snow to stop; but still the snow fell.” The grip of evil on CS Lewis’s Narnia and Suzanne Collins’s Panem in The Hunger Games are also both also made tangible by the ‘icy’ fingers which have engulfed the land. And nowhere is that more obvious than in Disney’s global brand musical Frozen which puts it right up there in the title! Adapted from Hans Christian Andersen’s The Snow Queen, in Frozen the power of the ice goes deeper even than stopping rivers flowing or trees blossoming; it goes right to the heart!If you have great icy and snowy book recommendations let us know on Twitter @GdnChildrensBks or by emailing childrens.books@theguardian.com and we’ll add your ideas to this blog. You can use the same email address to ASK the Book Doctor a books related question.Emily Drabble (@EmilyDrabs)Of course I've got to add @kdbrundell's The Wolf Wilder to this wonderful list of snow and ice books! @GdnChildrensBksJanuary 25, 2016Paul, via emailWeirdstone of Brisingamen by Alan Garner – although not wintery throughout, the book’s third section takes place during ‘Fimbulwinter’.Jo Clarke (@bookloverJo)Mustn't forget Pugs of the Frozen North by @philipreeve1 @jabberworks with 50 different types of snow love it ❄❄❄ https://t.co/1jKBaqlT0XJanuary 25, 2016Ellie Piper (@ElliePiperUK)@GuardianBooks @GdnChildrensBks No Moominland Midwinter??January 25, 2016Rachel Maskelyne (@RachelMaskelyne)A Boy Called Christmas by @matthaig1 features quite a bit of snow! @GdnChildrensBksJanuary 25, 2016Zoe Toft (@playbythebook).@GdnChildrensBks for a vintage snowy book, I've soft spot for The Story of the Snow Children by Sibylle von Olfers https://t.co/tCGyVPYMErJanuary 25, 2016Karen Powell (@karenlpowell1)@GuardianBooks @GdnChildrensBks 'Winter Holiday' a fave, Also 'White Boots', Noel Streatfield & 'The Wolves of Willoughby Chase' Joan AikenJanuary 25, 2016Jane Eagland (@jeeagland).@GdnChildrensBks The White Darkness @GMcCaughrean . Brilliant!January 25, 2016Gill Lewis (@gill_lewis)@playbythebook @GdnChildrensBks @SamuelUsher @dawnafinch have to add The Snow Merchant by @sam_gaytonJanuary 26, 2016