Summer wardrobing is essentially about repurposing those winter clothes you spent all your money on. Or, at least, finding something you already own, but keeping your overall ensemble on trend for this season. Here’s how to dress for your personality status ...      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jourdan Dunn gets the cold shoulder. Photograph: Pacific Press/LightRocket via Getty ImagesIf you are a parent Death to the maxi-dress! The piece of clothing that can make you look like you’re “drowning in fabric” is, as the general fashion consensus believes, O.V.E.R. Instead of the hazardous overflow of dressness, why not go for a playsuit that follows the cold shouldering trend. It doesn’t stifle your movements and is very on trend for the summer (Victoria Beckham and Jourdan Dunn have both been wearing them).If you’re over 50      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rihanna in tapas-bar-inspired kaftan. Photograph: Robert Kamau/GC ImagesRihanna may not be on your list of top three style icons to go matchy-matchy with. But her recent tapas-bar-inspired kaftan was the type of covered-up-but-not-covered up-outfit that’s perfect if you areuncomfortable with the flesh on display in a beach situation. The kaftan may have had the whiff of 70s Elizabeth Taylor about it, but fashion is re-embracing it.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Topman leaf print shirt.If you’re have gothic sensibilitiesOf course, as a goth you are duty bound to hate a) the sun and b) being outside, so trips to the beach are pretttty tricky. Unless they involve: Elvira, Marilyn Manson and a couple of Edgar Allan Poe quotes. Happily, the dark palm print shirt is a perennial favourite and is very in this summer – the Hawaiianese-meets-doom-metal-country look ticks all the misanthrope sartorial boxes but also won’t look too out of place in a beach setting.If you’re a hat-wearerIf you are looking to upgrade your bucket hat, version 2.0 of the floppy hat now has a logo or a pom pom. You could blame the real-time effect that social media has had on our perception of summer, because designers such as Eugenia Kim have designed a range of hats that looks best when shot from above and look Instagram-ready. Sample embroidered messages on her fedoras include: “Leave a message”, “Head in the clouds” and “Fiesta not siesta”. Similarly, Cartarzi have brought out a line of summer hats with multicoloured pom poms attached to the side. No Instagram filter required.