My publishers initially choked when I offered them a novel about eight children, with four parents. One editor suggested I trim this down to a “big family of five kids”. But by my standards (having grown up in an Irish Catholic clan in the 1970s), five was a puny total. Also, I needed the kids to outnumber the parents, to create enough pleasurable havoc. So we compromised: I culled the kids to seven.It was a law-abiding, introverted character who got the chop, because the hard fact is that in a big family (whether in literature or life), it’s the squeaky wheels who get the oil. You have to fight for your moments in the spotlight. My own nickname was “Cawwy me!”, reflecting my sloth and my difficulty pronouncing my Rs. Also, I was the youngest of our eight, a position of privilege; you may have less power than the eldest, but your weaknesses get indulged, and I remember many a time when I was allowed to slope off and read while my elders did useful things like washing up.The book I had tucked under my arm was often the story of a big family. A busman’s holiday, you might say, except that the households I loved to read about were far more entertaining than the Donoghue regiment (with our 6pm dinners, and pocket money and bedtime set by age).The families in these books were often poor, because penury gets the narrative ball rolling. Eve Garnett’s The Family from One End Street and its sequels (1937, 1956, 1962) are the adventures of seven working-class kids enjoying themselves on little or nothing. But my favourite stories often had it both ways, class-wise, by showing the well-bred English running low on cash. How will the three fast-growing girls in Noel Streatfeild’s Ballet Shoes (1937) manage to rustle up a decent frock between them, to audition for paying gigs? E Nesbit’s Bastable siblings (in the hilarious Treasure Seekers and Wouldbegood novels, 1898-1904) – who are pulled out of school, and teach themselves through quarrelsome play – get into embarrassing situations when they are caught (in respectable clothes) scrounging for cash.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The 2007 film adaptation of Ballet Shoes. Photograph: Allstar/BBCAs Gore Vidal pointed out, Nesbit’s magic was rooted in realism: the magic travelling carpet in The Phoenix and the Carpet (the Psammead series, 1902-06) has a darned bit that doesn’t work, so whichever unfortunate sibling sits on that patch gets left behind. When big-family books don’t hinge on money, there’s usually another prize to fight over: privacy, time, status. In Helen Cresswell’s Bagthorpe Saga (1977-2001), the comedy springs from Ordinary Jack being the only ungifted one in this eccentric crew who get up to such mischief as eating paint.One handy thing about these stories is that the children are numerous enough to get away from the grown-ups without anyone having to mope alone. The kids in Arthur Ransome’s Swallows and Amazons books (1930-47) camp on an adult-free island. The four in CS Lewis’s Narnia trilogy (1950-56) frequently escape into another world, even if the cosmic wars they engage in there break the sibling bond, when lipstick-wearing Susan is shut out of the heavenly kingdom.Big-family stories have their technical challenges. The reader has to invest a lot of time and mental energy to tell the siblings apart. Even if the writer sticks to one child’s point of view and priorities, all those others wandering through can be distracting and divide the reader’s sympathies. But at their best, these stories create a rich jigsaw puzzle of relationships. The Marlow series (1948-82) by Antonia Forest slides from genre to genre (boarding school, holiday adventure, spy thriller, even teen romance), adding up to an extraordinarily subtle portrait of an eight-child English family, full of complex moments of resentment and alliance.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Famous Five book illustrations by Laura Ellen Anderson.The best children’s books of 2016 Big-family stories can afford to be diverse. I doubt Enid Blyton would have written 21 novels about an only girl who was as much of a hardcore tomboy as George in the Famous Five (1942-63), but the three other children and dog who make up the five act as protective colouring. Streatfeild weaves a web of supportive adults for her orphans in Ballet Shoes: a housekeeper turned nanny, their absent guardian’s spinster niece, and four lodgers (one married couple and one clearly lesbian pair) who raise the girls village-style. Similarly, the paterfamilias vet is the token human in Doctor Dolittle’s family (Hugh Lofting, 1920-52). Family stories may put a cosy spin on it, but they’re about difference, hybridity and the tolerance needed to get along with those you find alien.Some clans stretch so wide, they give rise to parables of communal survival, tinged with utopia. As a child, I always loved that moment in a Wombles book (by Elisabeth Beresford, published 1968-76) when a young eco-scavenger got to choose her or his own name from the atlas in Great Uncle Bulgaria’s study, whether carefully or – eyes shut – at random: individuality, flourishing in the busy hive.• Emma Donoghue’s The Lotterys Plus One is out now from Macmillan. Her adaptation of Room, with songs by Cora Bissett and Kathryn Joseph, premieres at Theatre Royal Stratford East, London E15, on 2 May.