Jasper Johns, the influential American artist known for his paintings of flags, maps, targets, letters and numbers, is to be the subject of a major exhibition at the Royal Academy of Arts in London.The RA announced details of what will be the first comprehensive survey of the artist’s work to be held in the UK in 40 years. Now, 86, Johns is considered one of the world’s most important living artists. He appeared on the American art scene when abstract expressionism was in full throttle but straight away began ploughing his own furrow, making works which were different to anything else.Edith Devaney, a co-curator of the RA show, said Johns was an “unbelievably important” artist who had always broken new ground, from the 1950s to the present day.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Regrets, 2013. Oil on canvas. Photograph: © Jasper Johns/VAGA, New York / DACS, London 2017She recalled going to the RA exhibitions committee in 2011 and getting permission to contact Johns, an honorary Royal Academician, with the idea of a show. “I spoke to him on the phone and it gathered from there,” she said. “He was not uninterested.”Since then she has developed a good working relationship with Johns, she said. “He is wonderful and he is so dedicated to working, he is in his studio all the time, still painting and print making and also very much keeping in touch with the art world, he is still very engaged with what is going on.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Target, 1961. Photograph: painting-easel/© Jasper Johns/VAGA, New York / DACS, London 2017Devaney hopes the Johns show will be an eye opener for British art audiences. “He is rightly hugely celebrated in America but just not shown much over in Europe at all so it really will be an opportunity for people to see the full range of his work, and track his work from the 1950s to the present day because we’ll be including a work he finished just before Christmas.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Untitled, 1992–4. Encaustic on canvas. Photograph: © Jasper Johns/VAGA, New York / DACS, London 2017One of his most significant and best known works is Flag, which is his version of the US flag made from an encaustic paint – a mixture of pigment and molten wax – on which he dropped strips of newspaper.The show will include one of his 1950s flags, being lent by a private collection, as well as other works works with the same motif.Another important work in the show will be Painted Bronze (1960), a sculpture of two Ballantine beer cans Johns created because of a dig that fellow artist William de Kooning made against his dealer Leo Castelli.Johns said of the work: “Somebody told me that Bill de Kooning said that you could give that son of a bitch two beer cans and he could sell them. I thought, what a wonderful idea for a sculpture.” Castelli, of course, quickly sold the work.Johns has never been an artist keen to explain his art. One of his more forthcoming statements was in 2008 when he said: “One hopes for something resembling truth, some sense of life, even of grace, to flicker, at least in the work.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Between the Clock and the Bed, 1981. Oil on canvas. Photograph: © Jasper Johns/VAGA, New York / DACS, London 2017That has given the RA its title for the show: Something Resembling Truth.The exhibition follows renewed UK gallery interest in postwar US artists with the RA’s abstract expressionism show last year and Tate Modern’s recent show devoted to Robert Rauschenberg, for a time Johns’ lover.It is also part of a conscious effort by the RA to celebrate the world’s most significant living artist with exhibitions given over to Anish Kapoor, David Hockney, Anselm Kiefer and Ai Weiwei among others.The show will be a big one with more than 150 works including sculpture, drawings and prints. Whether Johns attends remains to be seen, said Devaney. “It would be wonderful if he did but who knows?”• Jasper Johns, Something Resembling Truth will be at the Royal Academy of the Arts, London, from 23 September to 10 December.