The funniest standup I’ve ever seenEddie Murphy Raw. It displayed his immense talent for impressions, had simple but hilarious observations and was able to appeal to a diverse audience without pandering or carpet N-bombing as a punchline. A prophetic anti-Cosby exchange makes the show all the more relevant. Also, Pryor begat Murphy who begat Rock, so it means even more to me.The funniest sketch I’ve ever seenCharlie Murphy’s True Hollywood Stories [part of Chappelle’s Show]. It introduced Rick James to a whole new generation and made the show one of the best sketch shows in television history. Cocaine IS a hell of a drug!The funniest dream I’ve ever hadThe one where I wanted to become a professional comedian.The funniest heckle I’ve ever had At a chain comedy club notorious for rowdy stags and hens, a group of 14 stags decided to turn my set into a Q&A session. One of them became particularly confrontational. I asked if he was the best man, and his response was, “Fuck off boy, I’m even better, I’m sperm donor.” He turned round to show his matching polo shirt, only to reveal he’d spelled it “sperm doner”. After I pointed this out, even with all the racist retorts he could muster, being told “he’s got you there mate” by his friends was the knockout that saved the night.The funniest hairstyle I’ve ever hadThe time I tried to give myself a touch-up with clippers and shaved out a whole tuft of hair. Shoe polish and prayer got me through.The funniest TV show I’ve ever seenI’ve not seen anything else on TV that captures the essence of America like The Simpsons has. From the sociopathic capitalist machine by way of Mr Burns and the relentless religious optimism of Ned Flanders to the working-class, tense but sometimes faux-sexual interracial relationship between Lenny and Carl, for anyone that wants to look at America under a comedy microscope, you have to start with 742 Evergreen Terrace.The funniest item I’ve clothing I’ve ever ownedIt’s all been funny, but I once asked my dad to buy me Moschino jeans. He laughed his ass off.Dane Baptiste is at Soho Theatre, W1, Tuesday to 7 May