On Sunday, having waited out eight days for an election result, Australia’s opposition leader Bill Shorten raised in his concession speech the proposition that the time for electronic voting had come.In the moment of victory jubilation, his grandchild only freshly released from his hip, the prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull, agreed with his adversary that “this is something we must look at … that’s been a passion or interest of mine for a long time”.In the emotional turmoil of the moment, Malcolm Turnbull did not seem to be able to decide whether electronic voting was a passion or merely an interest.Let's put e-voting where it belongs: on the trash-heap of bad ideas | Dan Nolan Passions are like that. They can unsettle an otherwise calm mind. Alternatively, declaring a passion is as mundane as ticking a box.I recently considered nominating for a board position on a professional association to which I belong, so I had a look at the biographical statements of the incumbents. One claimed to be “passionate about helping individuals, businesses, and communities thrive”, another declared “a particular passion for thought leadership and executive profiling”, and another revealed “a passion for social inclusion”. Yet another claimed “a passion about creating valuable career development opportunities for the profession”. The best was the one that stated, without irony, “a passion for working on meaningful projects”. In days gone by, job applicants listed hobbies. These days, it appears candidates are expected to declare, not merely interests or things they like doing, but things they are allegedly passionate about. Call me peculiar, but I see passions as more of a wishful bedroom word, so when I see a passion that has found its way on to a job application or a proposal to amend the voting system it appears to me as a word that has lost its bearings.A passionate bedroom moment is characteristically a passing moment in which the mind plays a small part. Likewise, a passionate outbreak of road rage may last until the offender is confronted or moves out of the driver’s line of sight, but it’s not usually a long-lasting flare-up.But sometimes passions are longer-lasting. Shakespeare’s Othello was consumed by a jealous passion that led him in the end to strangle his girlfriend, after which in a calmer regretful moment he described himself as “one who loved not wisely, but too well”. He was too generous by a long stretch in that self-assessment.People like Othello have been brought before our courts since time immemorial. Some kill their lovers, as he did. Others give way to their unbridled anger on the highways and back streets of our cities, taking wild umbrage in their motor cars as a driver cuts in front of them or shows them an impudent middle finger. We human beings are given to describing ourselves as “falling” in love. When that happens, we are more than happy to abandon logical thought and give way to a single-minded intense passion for another person, a desire that a dispassionate observer might see as out of proportion with the worthiness of the particular object of desire.But when the intense flame of a passionate moment cools, whether it be the flame of love or loathing, we are able to see things with the vantage of hindsight. When road-rage offenders are brought before the magistrate, very often they are without a defence other than to say, “I don’t know what came over me, your honour”. Their lawyer will probably be more helpful: “Your honour, I respectfully put it to you that my client’s wrongdoing was a mere act of passion, and should be seen in that light. My client did not expect to be an offender when stepping out of bed in the morning. The act was a transgression, to be sure, but it was not a considered or pre-meditated transgression. My client did not bring a mind to the performing of the offence, your honour.”The mind regularly goes missing in acts of passion. Long-lasting passions tend to be the preserve of extremists who are eager to stretch the intense moment into a sustained emotional high. I’m thinking here of members of religious cults and political radicals.One of the questions about long-lasting passions is whether they are real or fake. Othello’s jealous passion was the creation of Iago’s mischief-making, but Iago didn’t share Othello’s passion. He simply put troublesome thoughts out and about, such as telling Desdemona’s father that “your daughter and the Moor are now making the beast with two backs”, or “an old black ram is tupping your white ewe”.In praise of the C-word It’s an old trick to ferment loathing of a stranger. He’s of a different colour. He’s of an older age. He lusts after your women. He wants your job. But it’s a trick that works. Donald Trump appears to be making it work for him.A recent biography of Adolf Hitler as a young man by the German historian Volker Ullrich makes the point that Hitler had only one real talent. It was oratory and he was good at it. His power over audiences was generated, not by the ridiculous things he said, but by the ability he enjoyed to crank his vocal register into a zone typically used by demagogues to unleash deeply passionate feelings among his listeners.In 1920, two years after the first world war, W.B. Yeats wrote The Second Coming, a bleak but visionary piece of poetry. It contains these musings: The best lack all conviction, while the worstAre full of passionate intensity …The darkness drops again, but now I knowThat twenty centuries of stony sleepWere vexed to nightmare by a rocking cradle,And what rough beast, its hour come round at last,Slouches towards Bethlehem to be born?You can be sure that rough beast is not interested in a voting system, whether manual or electronic.