Hope Jahren’s memoir of her life in science, Lab Girl, has been described by the New York Times as a book that “at its best, does for botany what Oliver Sacks’s essays did for neurology” Now 46 and professor of geobiology at the University of Hawaii, Jahren has built a hugely successful research career delving into everything from the secrets of fossilised plants and ancient ecosystems to developing forensic tests for improvised explosive devices. Along the way she has scooped three Fulbright awards as well as medals from both the Geological Society of America and the American Geophysical Union. But, she says, making it to the top in academia takes more than just a love of plants and soil. It takes grit, too.You always seem to pick tough jobs, from working at a hospital making up bags of intravenous medications to fund your time at university, to the all-nighters you pulled building up your research group. What drives that?That is a scary question. It is kind of like, “What is wrong with you?” I didn’t realise that was what I was doing. I see the world as this place where we have got a lot of work to do and a lot of problems to solve. My job, while I have the strength to keep standing, is to pitch in and help. I worry more that I am not helping enough.What has been your best moment?Science is so incremental and so full of setbacks and small steps forward. In order to really thrive in this business you have to be able to glean as much joy from the failure days and from the small increments as you do from the breakthroughs. And there isn’t any kind of day in the lab that is so bad that, when I leave there, I don’t want one more. Women have an uncomfortable relationship with safety. We negotiate risk all our lives - and it's just as true in science One of your early triumphs was when, late at night in an x-ray diffraction laboratory, you worked out of what the stones inside hackberries are made from. Does that stand out in your memory?Those are particularly sweet and transcendent moments, when you figure something out and until you tell somebody you’re the only person in the universe who knows. It doesn’t mean that what you figured out is important. It doesn’t mean that what you figured out is exactly right. But it’s moments like that, when you can feel that in a big world full of so many people and so many things you are special, and your experience is absolutely special and unique.Gwyneth Paltrow's bee sting beauty treatment just won't fly | Dean Burnett One other aspect of that discovery was less jubilant – the fact you had a spanner in your back pocket for protection the whole time.Women have an uncomfortable relationship with safety. We all know that. You know that when you take the subway. You know that when you fly into an unfamiliar place and stay in a hotel by yourself and you have to go somewhere at night. We all know that feeling. But science requires a lot of that. It requires a lot of being alone in a dark building after hours and moving around by yourself, and dealing with a lot of men that you often don’t know every well. I have tried to write honestly and openly about how these are not the safe spaces we would like [to think]. So I had that wrench in my pocket because I was working alone at night and I knew there were a lot of other people who had a key and some of them creeped me out – the wrench made me feel safer. That is the reality of all women’s lives – we negotiate risk while we live our lives, and that is true in science as well. I think men are surprised when I say that, and women are not.At one point you say “as a female scientist no one knows what the hell you are”. Did that take the edge off your passion?I think it can make the experience more lonely. I had to decide early on why I was doing this and I had to learn how to reward myself, because it was clear to me early on that the normal trajectory was not open to me. I was never going to turn into one of these bearded professors with the pipe, walking around campus, that everyone thinks is the world expert. I wasn’t going to get that reward. I had to learn how to reward myself and I think I am better off for that. All I have ever wanted is one more day in the lab with the people I care about. And every day that I get that, I am grateful.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hope Jahren at work in the lab. Photograph: Ressler Photography/Little BrownWhat would you do if someone stopped you going to the lab?Well, that happened. It happened while I was pregnant and it was devastating. [So] I came in when they were not around – I came in the middle of the night and just sat there. It was really the worst thing that has ever happened to me in science. The sad part was I don’t think folks realised how hurtful it was. But it was the most terrifying thing to have them say we are taking this away from you, we are taking it away because you are a woman doing what women do.How did they justify it?There are generous ways to justify it and there are ungenerous ways. I think I was the only pregnant woman who had ever worked in that building, and I think just that really raw and bold example of a woman doing a woman thing in a very male-dominated environment causes a great deal of discomfort in itself. So that is the ungenerous interpretation. The generous interpretation is I had a very difficult pregnancy, I was very ill, and for liability reasons if something went terribly wrong nobody wanted it to happen in the workplace. Maybe somebody else would see it that way. But I saw it as “you are ending my life”.You met your long-time colleague, Bill Hagopian, on a field trip documenting soil in California. Did you realise straight away how important he’d be in your career?I knew that this was a special person. And I appreciated that in a way that the people around me couldn’t. It is a weird version of love at first sight – collaboration at first sight. I could see that this was someone remarkable that if you didn’t look [at] carefully you’d miss it. And I think that is also true when I do science – that is something special about me – I can see things that are remarkable that if you didn’t look closely [at] you’d miss.It seems like you and he had to put everything on the line to set up your lab - at one point he was living in a van and you were both scrounging supplies to keep your research going. Did it ever make you angry that there was so little support?It sounds crazy but I was so grateful to be able to do it. I always knew how privileged I was to think for a living. I grew up in this town where the main industry was a slaughterhouse and I always thought to myself, “Every day that I don’t have to go kill a pig is a good day.” And I had somebody to do it with. In some ways it was the happiest time in my life, and the only thing that was stressful about it was I was so terrified it would end. I have a huge amount of pride in how much we accomplished for how little money, because we are very sensitive to the fact that we are spending people’s taxes – hardworking people who go to jobs they don’t like every day. The only way I can live with myself is that I can promise them that every day we do not waste a nickel, in fact we stretch it into a quarter.Is there a particular moment that you find yourself recounting at dinner parties?You know that is really interesting – because I don’t go to dinner parties. That is the other thing that makes me dumbstruck, the fact that somebody would read [my book] and want to be a scientist. Like, did you notice the part where there’s all those hours in a closed room by yourself doing this stuff? It is also the stuff they don’t see – like, did you notice there was no going to clubs, or movies or out with people or vacations or the fun things people do with their lives? That book is full of stuff that I did. But if you read between the lines there is a whole lot of stuff I never did.Women in science on Wikipedia: will we ever fill the information gap? What’s the biggest sacrifice you have made?Leaving my home town. That is a place where my parents were both born and their parents built that town. It is out on the prairies in the midwest and that’s the place where my family is either walking the streets or in their graves within three square miles. I grew up playing with kids who were the kids of people my parents grew up playing with and they know me like nobody else. I thought everybody was that way when I was growing up, and then I left to go to college and I realised that the world is full of strangers. I will always wonder who I would have been if I had stayed, integrated, in that community. But by becoming a scientist I also knew that I could never go back.Your description of your experience of being bipolar is a powerful moment. How has that shaped your career?It was actually something I could do because I can make my own hours. If I want to do 12 hours of work it doesn’t matter if I do it during the day or during the night. And that was really important to me when I was desperately trying to hide how sick I was. It also exacerbated it because, of course, I had a lot of stress and I could be terribly ill and still function. I spent a decade hiding it and then I spent a decade doing the work of getting well – which is very hard work. I thought hard about the pros and cons of telling that story. [But] the only point in writing a book is if you are going to say something that you can’t hear anywhere else, and as far as I could tell the reality of what that is like hadn’t been shown in a way that I knew I could. And it is terrifying, it is scary. I don’t know if it was the right thing, but time will tell.You make students spend hours labelling vials meticulously before you essentially throw the lot away – why do you do that?That is going to happen to you sooner or later – a lot of that is going to happen to you. A lot of it. And if you can’t tolerate that, you need to find that out sooner rather than later for everyone’s sake. If the stuff was easy, it would already have been done. My niche is to do the part that is so much labour that nobody else wants to do it, because I have always had this knowledge that I am not smarter than anyone else but I am willing to put in careful hours that a lot of people aren’t. You need to be able to walk out the lab on a day when nothing works and it was all for nothing, and still say to yourself, “I am glad I spent my day that way, I wouldn’t have spent it any other way.” Otherwise, you are not going to make it.Lab Girl is published by Fleet (£16). Click here to order a copy for £13.59