Red Nose Day 2017In addition to being a huge cash generator, Red Nose Day is also a good barometer of the shifting power balances within British light entertainment. This year’s inductees to the inner circle include blunt but charming comic Romesh Ranganathan, Brits-bossing charisma vacuum Rag‘n’Bone Man and the inescapable Ed Sheeran. Friday, 7pm, BBC1SS-GBExpect an explosive finale as Sam Riley’s mumble-happy and conflicted detective Archer is finally forced to clear his throat and pick a side. It’s felt sluggish at times but this counterfactual second world war drama at least goes out in style. Sunday, 9pm, BBC1      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sam Riley as Detective Superintendent Douglas Archer in SS-GB. Photograph: Laurie SparhamVeraBrenda Blethyn’s dishevelled and irascible detective has proved a hardy addition to the ranks of TV sleuths. To begin this seventh series, she’s on the blustery Northumberland coast investigating the unexplained death of a wildlife ranger with more than a few dark secrets. Sunday, 8pm, ITVBroadchurchAt the midpoint of this consistently compelling crime saga, the dramatic weight is being carried by the brilliant Julie Hesmondhalgh whose turn as rape victim Trish is dominating the final series. This week, Jim Howick appears as an almost comically unpleasant new suspect. Monday, 9pm, ITV      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Consistently compelling … Broadchurch. Photograph: Colin HuttonMade in ChelseaThe beastly and bickering toffs of west London return. This year’s big news: Binky and JP are expecting. Expect the opposite of calm stoicism. Monday, 9pm, E4CatastropheHas Rob fallen off the wagon? This week, a peculiar sequence of events involving the potential legal guardianship of Chris and Fran’s son and a miniature bottle of vodka sees teetotal Rob flirting with the dark side. Just one of a series of midlife crises to afflict Rob and Sharon as this beautifully written and performed ode to semi-functional adulthood continues. Tuesday, 10pm, Channel 4The Last Days of George MichaelIn the wake of the recent coroner’s verdict that pop legend George Michael died of natural causes, it will be interesting to see what fresh insight Channel 5 can offer us into his sad demise. Michael’s death was a raw coda to a bleak year so let’s hope for a celebration of his life, too. Thursday, 9pm, Channel 5PassionsGiven his taste for wry, witty wordplay garnished liberally with double entendre, it’s not exactly a surprise to learn that Julian Clary counts Noël Coward among his biggest inspirations. The first of this new series sees Clary exploring Coward’s life and times. Thursday, 8pm, Sky Arts      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A shared love of witty wordplay … Julian Clary with a bust of Noel Coward in Passions.Race Through the Decades CollectionTim Roth slinging the National Front out of Brick Lane. A dramatisation of 1975’s Black Panther-inspired Spaghetti House siege. And the return of one of the coolest TV sleuths, David Yip’s John Ho, in The Chinese Detective. All of these and more feature in this new BBC Store collection exploring the BBC’s representation of black and Asian people. From Thursday, BBC StoreCliqueHolly’s finally on the inside of Jude’s posse. But could that be where her problems begin? Pressure mounts as this drama of teen manners continues. From Sunday, BBC3