I discovered Rob Newman’s comedy when I was 16. His shows were relentless: packed full of quotes, arguments, anger, history, philosophy and, above all, bladder-ruining laughs. Oil, urban angst, war, climate change and capitalism – Newman tore into all of these subject and more with verve, wit, and what must have been a well-used library card.Twenty years on his latest piece, The Brain Show, finds Newman on good form. He’s less angry young man, more genial, worried uncle. The laughs are still very much there, perhaps a shade gentler. One thing is still guaranteed: you’ll leave with a brain significantly fuller than before and a long reading list.The show itself majors on a sceptical look at neuroscience, especially what Newman sees as attempts to reduce the human brain to the status of a “wet computer”. He pours particular scorn on two experiments aimed at portioning the brain into neat, discrete emotional zones; he feels similarly about geneticists who think they can identify a homelessness gene, or one for low-voter turnout. Brian Cox gets a special mention for being a figurehead for lazily generalised science, with a wicked impression of Cox walking an audience through the growing and evolving human brain.Robert Newman: The Brain Show review – chewy neuro-comedy As Newman later pointed out to me, citing Stephen Jay Gould: “the world we make, makes us. Cro-Magnon had the same brain as us, possibly slightly larger. Everything we’ve done since then has been the product of evolution on a brain of unvarying capacity.” He further points out the absurdity of simply equating brain size with capacity for intelligence: “Isaac Newton was tiny, and in that sort of skull xylophone, he would have been about Homo ergaster! I mean his head was just tiny. I was trying to work out if there was a way you could work out from the death mask ... the cubic capacity of his brain … It’s sort of invidious, this skull size thing.”I’d asked Newman if he would meet me to talk about the science in The Brain Show and his take on science communication in general. The show is only an hour long in its London incarnation, and I wanted to know more about his decision to mix neuroscience and comedy – surely not an easy balancing act. Before we met, Newman sent me an email which set me straight about his attitude to science/neuroscience in general: “What I find sinister is the fashion for reductivism among some science writers (and that includes papers in journals as well as books) which is often part of the popular fallacy that if it ain’t dehumanising then it ain’t science.”When we met, he further unpacked this idea of dehumanising science: “That was actually Freud’s idea when he said, look … there were three great scientific revolutions, all just were great hammer blows to the human ego. He said, there’s the Copernican revolution, which takes you from the centre of the universe, there’s Darwin who shows you, sort of, that you’re mere apes, and then of course now there’s me: I come along (he’s modestly put himself in this triumvirate) and I’m saying that all those things you think are rational are coming from wild drives controlling you, that you don’t control.”Rob Newman: 'Bill Hicks wanted to support us. I regret not letting him' Newman strongly resists this interpretation: “I kind of feel there’s enough dehumanising forces out there already why rush into the arms of the mind-brain dehumanisers? We do it because we think it’s a scientifically correct thing to do because there is a fallacy that properly rigorous science should be dehumanising.” He delights in picking apart Freud’s sweeping statement, pointing out that the Copernican revolution, for example, was in many ways actually extremely positive for most of humanity: “If the sun is shining equally on all of us in this heliocentric universe, then it shines on men the same as women and the peasant the same as the king; and so, in the language of the Protestant Reformation, we are all saints. So it’s totally liberating.”And it’s that quibble with some of the mouthpieces of the scientific establishment that’s at the root of The Brain Show. “Science knows a few things and provisionally at that. That’s good science. Bad science knows everything, and that’s a problem: it tends to know it categorically. It’s the pretence [of knowing] everything ... especially when we know so little about so much.”So how does a comedian with an arts degree go about cutting science down to size? Newman didn’t collaborate with any scientists on the show (although he says friends who are scientists have seen it and made suggestions). He’s clearly done a lot of reading around the subjects he’s critiquing, but admits that access to academic papers is limited by his unwillingness to pay for the privilege. The open-access debate is something of a hot-button topic in academia at the moment, and it’s pleasing to hear it referenced outside of a university.It’s also important to him that the piece is well-referenced, a solid argument rather than a giddy wave of comedic invention, sweeping the audience along with it. “I’m uncomfortable getting too far away from an actual example of anything. You know, they say if music gets too far from the dance it atrophies, if poetry gets too far from the song ... and I think when you get too far from being able to give and actual example of a particular type of spider, or a particular type of experiment … But also it’s the details where the comedy will come from: a specific detail about, well, how many ounces [of brain] the doctor took out of Phineas Gage’s head, or something like that.”However, not having access to a wide range of current papers might be said to compromise that vision for his work to a certain extent. After all, in a field as wide as neuroscience or evolutionary science, it’s inevitable there’s going to be some badly-thought out research and some poorly written, ill-conceived journal articles. In the show, Newman chooses two such targets, the Neurobiology of Wisdom by Thomas Meeks and Dilip Jeste, and the The Neural Basis of Romantic Love by Andreas Bartels and Semir Zeki (which in the show he changes to The Neurobiology of Romantic Love, a study in which his on-stage persona takes part). Both are free-access papers, and Newman has obviously read them in detail. He’s outraged at “the idea that wisdom is a thing that you could put in a phial or show it to me on a petri dish …” Indeed, the Sunday Times’s headline announced the study in those very terms: “Found: the brain’s centre of wisdom”.Newman’s response to this is typically pithy and well-furnished with secondary references: “The problem there is not just that it’s bad biology, but it’s bad philosophy. William Blake would have told you [that] you can’t buy wisdom in the market place”.But is he right to be outraged? Or has he simply chosen two straw men to destroy for comedic effect? His audience might follow his lead and track down the papers, but they are more likely to parrot his words, and write off neuroscience wholesale.Robert Newman interview His scorn is, in part, merited. I passed both papers by Guardian bloggers Pete Etchells (a senior lecturer in biological psychology at Bath Spa University) and Dean Burnett (a neuroscience lecturer at Cardiff University). They agreed that there are obvious issues with both studies chosen – small samples, poorly defined terms and discredited sources among other things. They were also both in broad agreement with Newman’s point about the stupidity of trying to reduce the brain to a series of areas responsible for set functions and emotions. As Burnett says: “it’s common enough to hear objections that complex emotions and functioning are more than just patterns of cells behaving in a certain way. Again, there’s something in that; a lot of higher functions are likely to be the result of many brain areas working together in complex ways, not just ‘this bit does that’.”Etchells agrees, but also points out that the wisdom paper in particular lists very deliberate caveats to some of the most obvious objections. Most importantly, he says, “It’s not bad science, it’s just that they’ve not figured out how to do good science about wisdom yet ... You just need to start somewhere to figure out what the right questions are to ask.”And this cuts right to the heart of Newman’s show. Although The Brain Show targets some shoddy pieces of science, what it really achieves is provocation of the audience. What are the right questions? What’s the story we’re trying to tell about ourselves with science? We might not all be scientists, but we all have brains and we all have imaginations capable of examining and querying the narratives handed to us. Most importantly, Newman is telling us to reject neat, simple answers: that’s the essence of good science. Luckily in the case of The Brain Show, it’s also the essence of good comedy.The Brain Show is at  Soho theatre until 23 January, then on tour from 30 January. Box office: 020-7478 0100.