I write this column about happiness research from my home in Oxford, England, where the mood is worse than I have ever experienced. Like Scotland and Northern Ireland, and many cities in England and Wales, Oxford voted overwhelmingly to remain part of the European Union — by a margin of 40 percentage points.Even so, in social science theory, referendums are supposed to make people feel happier. But for reasons that go beyond political divisions,  Brexit is making many Britons everywhere glum. Well outside the strongholds that voted to remain, we’re seeing angry, violent outbursts from certain leave voters and expressions of regret and sadness from others. Why is that?  Gains in women’s rights haven't made women happier. Why is that? There are two reasons why referendums are supposed to raise aggregate happiness. The first is that direct democracy gives voters a sense of satisfaction that the system is fair and responsive to their preferences. In a referendum, political representation is neither skewed by the makeup of electoral districts, nor by additional incentives weighing on elected politicians. The second reason is that the process of collective decision-making is itself thought to be a source of positivity, perhaps because voters feel more connected to their communities.Data from a European – but non-EU – country bears this out. About half of all national referendums held in the world during the 20th century were held in Switzerland. This year, the Swiss have already voted on issues ranging from the building of a road tunnel, to taxation for married couples, to changes to asylum laws.In this land of referendums, the parts of Switzerland that hold the most referendums are the happiest, even when the effect of other common influences on happiness are statistically removed (like marital status and unemployment). The size of the happiness boost from direct democracy in Switzerland is even bigger than what is gained by living in the country’s top income category instead of the bottom one.But that feels poles apart from the Brexit experience.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A Mexican-American man in Manchester is assaulted and told to “go back to Africa” by young British men. [Warning: strong and upsetting language.]Brexit despondency over the whole country – even among some of those who voted to leave – is probably linked to a sense that disinterest and pessimism carried the day. The less attention a British person says they pay to politics, the more likely they were to vote leave.Moreover, how people decided to vote had everything to do with self-reported happiness trends. A survey of more than 12,000 Britons conducted on the day of the referendum found that those who voted to leave the EU believe, on balance, that life in Britain today is worse than it was 30 years ago – and also that for most children growing up in Britain today, life will be worse than it was for their parents.Those who voted to remain in the EU think the opposite: that life has and will get better.In this view, the referendum exposed a widespread case of the blues, which has since been compounded by newly apparent divisions. No one needs a social scientist to tell them that their happiness is strongly affected by their close relationships – though at the moment, YouGov is polling Britons on how the Brexit result has affected their family relations.People under 25 were more than twice as likely to vote to remain than those over 65, so it seems self-evident that referendum-prompted family arguments are raging in living rooms from Brighton to Newcastle. (A friend of mine admitted screaming in tears at her parents for effectively voting for her to go into negative equity.)Incidents of anti-Muslim abuse up by 326% in 2015, says Tell MAMA So how do politics and government empirically affect people’s happiness?One curious generality of happiness research is that people with predominantly right wing ideologies are happier than lefties. This is thought to be because those on the right tend to be wealthier and more religious than those on the left – both qualities that are independently linked to happiness. Beyond that, progressives are by definition less happy with the status quo.Another empirical finding about happiness and government is obvious: having the party you voted for in power measurably increases subjective wellbeing, as was found in a big analysis of 16 European countries.However, there are two instances where this basic relationship is flipped on its head. The first makes intuitive sense: if their preferred party acts corruptly in government, Europeans become less happy than they are when their preferred party is in opposition.In fact, corruption influences European citizens’ sense of wellbeing far more than normal economic ups and downs. To be sure, corruption is formally defined as the misuse of public office for private gain – not lying during a political campaign. But these concepts do overlap and seem likely to evoke the same sentiment of betrayal, such as is found among some leave voters suffering from “bremorse”.The second instance is strange but important. Extremists are increasingly unhappy the closer they get to their ideal form of government.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest John Cleese on extremism: “The biggest advantage of extremism is that it makes you feel good because it provides you with enemies ... you can pretend all the badness in the whole world is in your enemies and all the goodness in the whole world is in you.” Using data from 40 democracies over a quarter of a century – essentially all the data available on this topic – a 2013 study showed that only moderates feel happiest when they are governed by politicians who reflect their own political ideology. Extremists on both the left and the right, on the other hand, rate their subjective wellbeing highest when they are governed by people representing the opposite side of the left-right spectrum.Only a tiny minority of British voters on either side of the Brexit debate qualify as extremists. But given that the two parties that saw most support for the leave vote are on the right of British politics, happiness research would suggest, counterintuitively, that it is extremists on the right, not those on the left, who are the really unhappy ones now.‘A frenzy of hatred’: how to understand Brexit racism This matters because it projects a depressing view of how the far right in Britain is likely to behave in the weeks and months ahead. Getting the political outcome that they wanted is unlikely to make them happier. Instead, the lies they were fed in the referendum campaign and their general inclination to be unhappy under a right-of-center government will probably work together to hike their general sense of dissatisfaction.Britain has already seen an uptick in hate crime against Europeans living and working in the country. The future doesn’t look good.