Kagi Kowa remembers the precise date on which she first picked up a paintbrush and began to make art – 15 February 2016. The Sudanese-born 24-year-old had just arrived in Australia after spending most of her life in a refugee camp in Kenya.“I’ve always been interested in art, of course, since I was a kid, but I just never thought that I could be able to paint.”Kowa is one of 300 newly arrived migrants and refugees, aged between 15 and 24, who have taken part in the Harmony Art Collective project, creating a collection of large-scale murals in Sydney with the assistance of the high-profile contemporary and street artists Beastman (Brad Eastman), Haha (Regan Tamanui), Ben Frost and Kaff-eine – and, beyond that, creating a community.Ms Saffaa, protest art and the fledgling Saudi Arabia women's rights movement Young people from places as diverse as Myanmar, Congo, Iraq, Syria and Thailand collaborated in eight weekend-long workshops across Australia, coordinated by SBS, the Australian government and Ambush Gallery. Their murals are now being exhibited in Sydney’s Darling Quarter to coincide with Harmony Day celebrations on 21 March.Kaff-eine, who ran workshops in Wollongong and Blacktownwas moved by the sheer joy and positivity that the students brought to the program.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kagi Kowa, one of more than 300 young people who took part in the Harmony Art Collective project. Photograph: Billy Zammit“Even though they’d experienced a lot of discrimination and some challenges here, they had so much love for [Australia],” she tells Guardian Australia. “It must be a really complex position for a lot of these young people, that they’ve got such love for where they’re from and love for where they are now.”The workshops gave participants the opportunity to meet other young people in similar circumstances and make new friends, but it also gave them space to express themselves, and communicate in ways that transcended language and cultural difference. “Some of them have got some pretty harrowing stories about how they came to Australia and how they’ve experienced life, but they were just so open to new experiences,” Kaff-eine says.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I would stay up until 3am painting’: Kagi Kowa works on one of the murals created through the Harmony Art Collective workshopsIt was partly street art – in particular, the Indigenous murals that she saw brightening up the train stations around her new home in Queensland – that inspired Kowa to begin painting: “I found a similarity between the two – between African art and Aboriginal art,” she says. Making the transition from Africa to Australia was hard, and the art was therapeutic. “It was a lonely time, it was a difficult time,” she says. “We’d just moved and settling in was a bit difficult. We didn’t have friends, we didn’t have much to do …“I got lost in my time just painting. I would stay up until 3am painting. My sisters would get so worried!”Kowa’s budding talent was spotted by one of her teachers at Tafe, who connected her to an art community in Ipswich. Within three months of picking up a paintbrush, she had secured her own solo exhibition. She took part in the Harmony Art Collective workshop in Queensland, run by Brad Eastman, whose work is known for its geometric shapes and vibrant colour patterns.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Two of the completed murals on display in Darling Quarter, Sydney. Photograph: Enzo Amato“I learnt a lot from that experience,” she says. “It was quite eye-opening for me to interact with different people and get to hear their opinion … or basically just understand their culture, and what patterns they found more interesting, or what art means to them in their culture.”‘Didgeridoo is his voice’: how Djalu Gurruwiwi embodies the sound of a continent Kaff-eine believes street art has much to offer new artists because it is inherently democratic: “You don’t need formal training. You don’t need a lot of money. You can reach a broad audience without having the privilege of a commercial gallery or a PR and marketing team.”The anonymity, too, can be freeing: “We’re in a time globally and in Australia where there’s a creeping distrust of the other. But when you see images on a wall, you don’t know who painted that, you don’t know if that was a neighbour or that was someone who just arrived last week … “This is young people taking up space and going, ‘I exist. And I’m here. And I’m important,’ and I think that’s really powerful.”• The Harmony Art Collective exhibition is showing in Darling Quarter, Sydney, until 30 April