A sign on the gate to Amanda and Clive Owen’s farm reads: “Slow Down, Free-Range Children.”There are certainly plenty of them. Nine, to be exact – aged from seven months to 15 years, along with dogs, horses, ponies and 1,000 sheep. All on one of the most exposed and remote farms in the Yorkshire dales.In some ways, the Owens “rear” rather than “parent” – most of the children have free run of the place, plus jobs and responsibilities, while the babies go everywhere with Amanda, on her back, until they can walk.Amanda was never one to follow the flock. After college, while her friends went to university, took jobs in banks, or got engaged, she cycled into the countryside to find farming jobs.She vividly recalls being transfixed by All Creatures Great and Small, the TV series based on the books of the Yorkshire vet James Herriot, and having her own flock was always her aim. Her passion for the shepherding life has opened many doors.Her Twitter account – packed with sheep, snow, hail, stunning vistas and cherubic children – drew such a following that a book soon followed, The Yorkshire Shepherdess. (Hollywood have bought the rights.) Now she has written A Year in the Life of the Yorkshire Shepherdess, a gentle month-by-month account of her life.What’s less clear – or a little more woolly – is quite why Amanda has had such an enormous brood herself, when she insists that motherhood never even figured in her plans.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Amanda Owen at Ravenseat. Photograph: Ian Forsyth“I had no dream to have an enormous family,” says Amanda, 42. But did she at least want one child eventually? “I don’t even know if I did.”Was it Clive, her husband, who wanted children? “Oh God, no!” (Clive was divorced with two children of his own when they met.) “I don’t think we ever even talked about having children – or how many,” says Amanda. “We didn’t make plans. It just … happened.”For her, the reason is all wrapped up in Ravenseat, the family farm.Her first glimpse of the place was on a cold October night in 1996, when she was 21 and was sent there by her boss to collect a ram. It was a long journey deep into the dales, down dirt tracks, through a river, and at the end of it all was Clive Owen, her future husband.The house, she says, was a shit-hole. Smoke-stained wallpaper and carpets so damp that they squelched. And an all-pervading air of sadness.“I don’t want to say it was desolate,” she says. “But there was a TV programme called The Dale that Died and that was how it felt. Yet at the same time, you could feel that it had once had something else, been something more. I wanted to breathe life back into it.”The birth of their first daughter, Raven, would have been enough to make many of us stop at one. It was then that Amanda discovered that her labour comes on suddenly (usually very early) with scant warning. She doesn’t have contractions, her waters don’t break and her babies present face first. Add to this the fact that Ravenseat was a two-hour drive from the nearest hospital and it becomes hair-raising.“When Raven was born, foot-and-mouth disease was on the rampage, everything in the countryside was shutting down, it was panic stations and dead stuff,” Amanda says. “I’d had to absolutely beg my midwife to attend a home birth just because there seemed no other way. I spend my life watching sheep give birth and you realise the less interference, the more hands-off, the better.”Except not always. Raven, turned face first, was stuck and after a protracted labour Amanda describes as a nightmare, an ambulance was called for the four-hour round trip.“There are certain things no one tells you and one is that if a baby is stuck, you go into a permanent contraction,” she says.“They had no pain relief in the ambulance as they wanted to monitor what was going on with the baby, and the midwife was being travel sick in a bowl. I remember getting to hospital and just writhing while they held me down for an epidural.”Raven was born by caesarean. (She’s now 15, and wants to be a doctor.)Reuben, baby number two, was equally touch and go, arriving suddenly and 10 weeks too soon during a storm. The ambulance took too long to arrive, so a nurse friend who lived close delivered this 3lb baby in the bedroom before he was transferred to hospital. In the following days, he suffered two collapsed lungs and a bleed on the brain. (He’s now 13, the “crafty one”, who spent his first 10 years demolishing things but has happily now turned to fixing them.)Though Amanda describes her next few deliveries as trouble-free, most took place during fraught rides to the hospital – sometimes in ambulances, sometimes in the Land Rover, en route, in lay-bys. Edith, now eight, was born in picturesque Wensleydale with the ambulance doors open and a surprised group of picnickers as witnesses.The birth of their eighth child, Clementine, was, says Amanda, the best. One night, restless, unable to sleep and 34 and a half weeks pregnant, she rose from her bed, crept downstairs, made some tea and stoked up the fire. At 12.45am, she realised what she’d thought was indigestion was actually labour.She considered the doomed dash for hospital and decided against it. (“I were tupped at Ravenseat and I’ll lamb at Ravenseat!”). She also chose not to wake her oblivious husband.“That would have woken the children and ensured a panic,” she says. “Ewes go and find somewhere private to give birth. They’ll always disappear behind a wall if they can. I can’t decide if it’s bad, but for me, I’d rather do it alone, too – because it’s personal.” You don’t know what life’s got in store for you, so cram as much in as you can So by the flickering fire, on a makeshift mattress of cushions and towels, Amanda delivered her baby, then the placenta, then went upstairs to present the precious bundle to her stunned husband.She knows there’ll be critics of her quest to repopulate this tiny patch of our overcrowded planet, but insists: “It’s not a simple sum.” Her family don’t take planes or even holidays. They remain resolutely local – Clive has never been to London and entire summers pass without the younger children even leaving the farm.“We wear hand-me-downs, our water comes from the local spring and our heating is the open fire,” she says. “We spend our winters blocking up the drains to increase the bog to absorb the carbon. We’re raising our children to be responsible and in touch with nature.“The council are trying to persuade people to live in the countryside, but all we’re getting are holiday lets and retired couples. What is wrong with putting some life blood back into the place?”And on top of all that, as a farmer, she feels acutely aware of how fast years pass, how little time we all have. “You’re a long time dead,” she says. “Doing what we do, going through the seasons, you realise how quickly it comes round. It’s frightening. You don’t know what life’s got in store for you, so cram as much in as you can.”And for Amanda, that means sheep, a few bestselling books, perhaps a Hollywood film, cream teas, B&Bs … and quite a lot of children.• A Year in the Life of the Yorkshire Shepherdess by Amanda Owen is published by Pan Macmillan, £7.99. To order a copy for £6.79, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call the Guardian Bookshop on 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.