When Matt Smith was mulling over whether to join the cast of Anthony Neilson’s Unreachable at the Royal Court, he apparently asked for advice from Jonjo O’Neill, with whom he now stars in the play. O’Neill replied: “It’s like committing career suicide, but it’s good career suicide.”Unreachable review – Matt Smith searches for the magic hour One of the many pleasures of this deeply idiosyncratic show is witnessing Smith not committing career suicide but rather adding to his stock in playing the quixotic, immature film director Maxim, whose Palme d’Or counts for nothing as he makes his latest movie and chases the elusive light. It’s good to see Smith back at the Court, where he was first spotted in 2007 in Polly Stenham’s That Face as the teenage son far too deeply attached to an emotionally chaotic and monstrously manipulative mother.Unreachable was created in the rehearsal room by Neilson and his cast. It is, as many have observed, a play about the movie business, the creative process and the relationship of art to the real world. But it is also – and there are similarities to Annie Baker’s phenomenal The Flick – about the authenticity of experience, how we project ourselves to others and what we really feel, and the manipulative artifice of film and theatre under whose spell we all fall. Chloe Lamford’s very clever design is a demonstration of the latter, particularly in its final coup de théâtre. It is also a heartbreaking examination of how we all chase the light, convinced that if we could only capture it our lives would finally be perfect.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Deeply attached … Julian Wadham, Matt Smith and Lindsay Duncan in That Face in 2008. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianThe script of Unreachable will change during the show’s run, reminding us that with performance there is no such thing as perfection, only a constant state of flux. Reviewers who complained that Unreachable seemed half-finished or under-rehearsed were missing the point: unlike a sculpture or a painting, theatre is never finished. The problem in our theatre culture is that we have become accustomed to far too much of it being locked down and varnished to a high sheen. It means a great deal of theatre is incredibly dull. Safety removes all the danger.Unreachable may not be the most complex, deeply layered or best structured play you will see this year, but it exudes a genuine whiff of danger and that makes it one of the most watchable pieces of theatre on the London stage. And one of the funniest too. It has a beguiling quality as if it doesn’t quite understand its own alchemy. It also has some of the best acting that you will see on stage from the fireworks of Jonjo O’Neill’s “the Brute”, a monstrous Klaus Kinski figure smashing through the fourth wall, to the quiet delicacy of Genevieve Barr’s money woman, and the understated sorrow of Amanda Drew’s producer who has sacrificed her own happiness for Maxim’s movies. There’s excellent work from Tamara Lawrance as the young star who only ever feels anything when she is paid to act it, and Richard Pyros as Carl, the director of photography who knows that he is always second best, the also ran.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Beguiling … Genevieve Barr as Eva with Jonjo O’Neill as the Brute in Unreachable at the Royal Court. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianSmith’s Doctor Who stint and presence on the celebrity circuit may make him the most famous person on stage, but here he’s part of an ensemble, and a very fine part of it. It’s that aspect that makes this a less than obvious choice for Smith as much as the possibility that Neilson’s notoriously demanding process would have left him with egg on his face.We forget that often the reason that actors get cast in lead roles in TV and film is because they really are very good actors, and have proved as much on stage where they have been spotted by casting directors. When they subsequently return to the theatre it is with a celebrity status that often means that they have far more to lose and far more to fear. A lead role in a tried and tested classic play or a Shakespeare prince or a new play by a well-known writer with a script that they and trusted advisers can read in advance is a far less risky option than a musical version of American Psycho or the “career suicide” of Unreachable. It’s the crucial difference between an actor who just wants to be a star, and an actor who knows that being an actor requires constant bravery, and is about lifelong learning on the job.