US police unions have been quick to criticise film-makers who critique them (1). Were you at all apprehensive about playing a corrupt cop in The Trust (2)?It didn’t because of the context of what it is these characters are trying to do. It didn’t seem to echo the poor behavior of our police that we’ve observed in the media and culturally in the last number of years. It wasn’t something I considered primarily because these two characters don’t mean harm to anyone.The Trust review: Nicolas Cage gets wacky in pitch-black heist comedy Especially your character.At least mine [laughs]! They’re two people who seem stuck in an odd rut in their lives. They take this opportunity, partially I think for my character, to get away from the mundane aspect of his life. So yeah, it never felt controversial to me. To me they just seem like two dudes who are loose with the rules.But the real driving force behind the heist itself is Nic’s character, who I think we start to realize towards the end is more delusional than just a positive thinker [laughs]. He’s almost living out a fantasy in a way. He’s becomes more unhinged as the film progresses.Cage keeps hinting at that through his increasingly bizarre mannerism - like when he gives you a massage at a bar, totally unprompted. Was he being spontaneous in the moment or was all that in the script?No - the massage scene was all just him. Certain things he discussed beforehand - like the zinc on his nose in that one scene. He requested that. He had so many ideas; it was really exciting to work with him. He’s an actor I’ve so long admired.I’ve never really worked with anyone quite like him. I’ve never had that experience. I’ve been so fortunate to work with so many actors I’ve equally admired. There’s always this sense of anxiety meeting those people for the first time. Nic was on a different level. There’s something otherworldly about him. Culturally he’s become something of an icon, certainly with the dawn of the internet and the way his work is re-contextualized. And the way he talks about his work too. Two years ago, during a SXSW panel, when asked how he embodies rage onscreen, he said: “I just open myself up to the zeitgeist.”Yeah, he sees things in a different way. He really does like the jazz and he talks about that, of acting, and getting in that moment. It was a thrill beyond a thrill. He was everything I wanted him to be and more.He’s actually a lovely human being and we would spend all of our time on set - we shot this over four weeks - talking. I learned so much about his life and his career. I asked him so many questions about specific films. He was so candid and alive with still very vibrant enthusiasm for the process and the craft. It was awesome.What’s your favorite performance of his?That is hard. Leaving Las Vegas is one of my favorites. That one stands out. That performance, he’s both deeply funny and so profoundly sad. That film has this incredible tonal balance and so much of it rests on is shoulders, where he can make alcoholism hilarious - and also so tragic. It’s beautiful. I’ve gone back to that movie so many times. It’s so naked.I’m pretty sure he only got drunk once while making it. Like actually drunk on set. He had a drunk consultant - pretty fascinating.How did your friendship with Cage impact your performance?It most certainly did. There’s a level of unpredictability to him. From take to take there would be nuanced changes and subtle differences. You’re never on fully solid ground.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Why have you been drawn to so many dark projects of late (3)? You seem like a relatively upbeat guy.Maniac specifically was an opportunity to work with Alexandre Aja, whose worked I liked. I don’t like remakes, but we had the chance to twist the film on its head. I don’t know that I’m looking for dark material. I must gravitate towards it. Maybe some people don’t like it, but it catches my eye because I do love genre. I think it provides an opportunity to work with a kind of character I’ve never played before. I certainly am no stranger to dark material. Where does your love of horror stem from?I have the benefit of having a brother who’s seven years older than me. When I was young, he was a teenager and he’d often rent horror films and bring them back. He’d show me these movies, despite the fact I wasn’t supposed to see them. I was exposed to things like Nightmare on Elm Street 3 and some direct to VHS films. They didn’t really scare me that much - there was certainly the thrill of seeing something I wasn’t supposed to be seeing at that age. But I loved them and as I got older, I watched more horror films.It’s not an easy thing to quantify. I love the aesthetics of horror. I like that on a certain heightened level it can explore real human experience and truths in a really interesting, sort of subversive way. Many horror films are inspired by collective fears or experiences. I love an emotional response too. Its aim is to disturb you, scare you, unsettle you. I like something that’s designed to make you feel something. On the opposite end of the spectrum, I love something that’s designed to make you laugh or make you feel emotional. You sound like a director. Are you planning to direct?I would love to. I would absolutely love to. I feel like I’ve been going to film school for the last 27 years of my life. The older I get, the more I fall in love with the entire process. I just haven’t found anything that I want to jump into and direct, yet. But I think that has something to do with shifting something inside my brain and turning that on and starting to look for it. Footnotes(1) A number of police unions called for a boycott of Quentin Tarantino’s work leading up to the release of The Hateful Eight, following comments he made concerning police violence.(2) In The Trust, the feature directorial debut from music video directors Ben and Alex Brewer (they won an MTV Video Music Award for Justin Bieber’s Where Are U Now), Wood plays a bored Las Vegas cop, who along with his partner, played by Nicolas Cage, devise a plan to rob a vault under a grocery store after learning of its whereabouts during a drug bust. It’s released on 13 May in the US, and 27 May in the UK.(3) Since The Lord of the Rings trilogy wrapped, Wood has ventured into darker territory, starring as a serial killer in Maniac and in the unbearably tense indie thriller Grand Piano. He’s also launched a horror production company, called the Woodshed.