Born in South Africa, Ronald Harwood, 81, moved to London in 1951. He trained at Rada, and worked as a dresser for actor-manager Sir Donald Wolfit. He went on to write his play The Dresser about the experience and was Oscar-nominated for his screenplay for the 1983 film adaptation. His other work includes the multi-award-winning films The Pianist (2002) and The Diving Bell And The Butterfly (2007). A new production of The Dresser has just opened at Duke of York’s Theatre, London. He was widowed in 2013, and has three children.What is your greatest fear?Dementia.Which living person do you most admire, and why?Murray Perahia, because he is a great pianist, and temporarily lost the use of one hand, which prevented him from playing. His courage was beyond description.What is the trait you most deplore in yourself?My need to do things too quickly.What is the trait you most deplore in others?Those who do things too slowly.Property aside, what’s the most expensive thing you’ve bought?A Mercedes S Class.What is your most treasured possession?My memory.What makes you unhappy?Memories.Who would play you in the film of your life?David Suchet.What is your most unappealing habit?Sneaking a cigarette.Which book changed your life?The Power And The Glory by Graham Greene. I’d never read anything like it before.What is your favourite smell?A rose: Elizabeth of Glamis.What did you want to be when you were growing up?An actor.What is the worst thing anyone’s said to you?“Why are you here?”What is your guiltiest pleasure?Cigarettes.What or who is the greatest love of your life?My late wife, Natasha.What does love feel like?Basking in the sun.What was the best kiss of your life?Don’t be impertinent.Which living person do you most despise, and why?The leader of Isis.Which words or phrases do you most overuse?“Brill”.What is the worst job you’ve done?Unpacking scenery from a pantechnicon for the Carl Rosa Opera Company.If you could edit your past, what would you change?The death of my wife: I’d happily have gone first.If you could go back in time, where would you go?To 1957, when I met Natasha.Sadiq Khan: ‘Who’d play me in the film of my life? George Clooney’ When did you last cry, and why?This morning. Thinking of my wife.What is the closest you’ve come to death?Having a heart attack two days after my wife’s funeral.What single thing would improve the quality of your life?Mobility.What do you consider your greatest achievement?My children.What is the most important lesson life has taught you?Keep buggering on (Winston Churchill’s words).