I was born in Sudbury in Suffolk. My sister, Ann, is 11 years older than me, and my brother, Roger, nine years older. It was a sort of miracle that I was born at all because, by that time, my father preferred gentlemen.My brother had wanted a brother. My mother had to apologise when she brought me home. But Roger just ignored the fact that I had been born a girl and taught me carpentry and how to wring a chicken’s neck. The first time I was given a doll I took it straight down to the woodshed and sawed its head off. They didn’t give me any more dolls.From the beginning I’ve felt conflict in family life. My father was a stranger during my childhood: always behind the newspaper or at the local bank in Hadleigh where he worked. Except for magical moments when he starred in the Hadleigh amateur dramatic society. Across the footlights he was wonderful! My father was clearly artistic and I must have inherited art from him, but I didn’t know it until later.I was close to my mother. She was really mother and father to me. She would hate me for saying it but she was actually quite masculine. She was a very good dancer and taught ballroom dancing. I went as her partner. She led. I was the lady, she was the man. I suppose it was all a bit muddling.I went to the dunces’ school because I failed to get into the school my sister had gone to. My mother said it was “meant to be” because my art teacher there was a real artist. When I was 14 we had an art exam. I spent the whole time flicking paint and drawing attention to myself because I was madly in love with the teacher who was invigilating. Then I realised there were only 15 minutes to go so I quickly painted a picture. When the results came, I was top of art. I joined the art school on the edge of Hadleigh, run by the artists Sir Cedric Morris and Lett Haines. It had a reputation for every conceivable vice, which was rather appealing. Lett was known as “Father” – ironically, because he was really quite frightening – and I adopted him as my father and mentor. That was really where life began.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lett Laughing (1975-6) by Maggi Hambling.I was in my 20s before I got to know my father. He retired at 60 and I gave him some oil paints. He had never held a brush. He was a fantastic painter and it really brought us together. He lived to a week off 96 and I drew him in hospital as he was dying – and after he died. It amazes me that people are surprised that I draw people I love in their coffins. My mother was the first. All the pain had gone from her face and she lay there quite serenely. In life, she was a terrible sitter – always rearranging her hair or asking if I had finished. In her coffin, she wasn’t going anywhere!Maggi Hambling returns to the National Gallery with Walls of Water My father and his painting also took me back to Suffolk where I now partly live. It feels right to have returned to the mud and the mist. There is more time in Suffolk: dawn, morning, noon, afternoon, whisky time. In London, it all seems condensed.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Maggi Hambling’s sculpture Scallop on Aldeburgh beach. Photograph: Jon Gibbs/Getty ImagesI live with my (I hate the word partner) friend, the artist Tory Lawrence, and have done for 35 years. Being queer – I promised Derek Jarman I would say queer not gay – and not having a conventional family, friends have become family: Lett, of course, and Henrietta [her muse and lover in the late 90s].I am relieved for my grandchildren that they are non-existent. I’m furious at the way we are fucking up the planet. I never wanted children. I know myself well enough. If I had a painting crying out in one room and a baby crying out in another, I would go to the baby, so I’m very lucky that never happened.• Maggi Hambling’s exhibition Edge is at Marlborough Fine Art (6 Albermarle St, London W1S 4BY) until 13 April 