80 Days, the rip-roaring, award-winning iPhone and PC game in which you assume the role of Passepartout, put-upon butler to the world-travelling 19th-century explorer Phileas Fogg, boasts more than eight times the word count of the novel on which it’s based. The journey described in Jules Verne’s Around the World in Eighty Days is complete in a little over 60,000 words. 80 Days, by contrast, contains more than half a million – although you’ll have to play many times before you read them all.Meg Jayanth, a writer for video games who splits her time between London and her home city, Bangalore, was responsible for much of the sprawling word count. During 80 Days’ development, she wrote hundreds of thousands of lines of text, snippets of dialogue and the taut descriptions that fill out the game’s landscape as vividly as any 3D artist could.The magic of words opens a whole new world of fun “I don’t think there was ever a particular moment when I decided I was going to make games,” she says. “I’ve always wanted to write and tell stories. Video games are one way I can do that.” Jayanth’s early forays into the medium were via text-based roleplaying games, played out via email, online forums and even journals. “They were games of creativity and world-building and character,” she explains. “There were no dice or traditional game systems.”She can’t remember the premise of the first “world” that she created (“something to do with intricate magic and corrupt, decadent aristocratic houses teetering on the brink of disaster”) but she can vividly recall how it felt when other people started interacting with her creation. “From that point games became about pulling people into a world, making a space for creativity and collaboration and thinking about game-making as a kind of dialogue.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The80 Days launch trailer.While Jayanth collaborated on 80 Days with a small team at the London-based studio Inkle, she sees the resurgence of game design by individuals as the most exciting development in the medium. “I’m excited about the broadening spectrum of people making games that is bringing perspectives and ideas and practices we haven’t seen before,” she says. “Even though there’s a long way to go, and even though the pace of change can sometimes be frustrating, there’s a lot to be hopeful for, I think.”Jayanth’s work provides a prominent example of the power and efficacy of interactive storytelling, not only in telling new kinds of stories, but also in recasting old ones. It’s a power she intends to use to progressive ends in her next project. “I’m interested in stories from the margins,” she says. “I’m interested in unexpected perspectives and unheard voices. I like making games and creating worlds where women, queer people, people of colour and those who are under-represented in mainstream games and culture can be heroes. And worlds where they can be villains too, and everything in between.“But more broadly, I’m interested in making games that feel human, and respectful, and socially and culturally engaged.”