In 1840, when an eight-year-old Louisa May Alcott moved with her family to the little town of Concord in Massachusetts, a fresh-faced idealism reigned over its bucolic lanes. A young Henry David Thoreau led a gaggle of the town’s schoolchildren, Louisa included, into the woods. There he beguiled his audience with tiny insects and playful chipmunks, introducing them, per his transcendentalist philosophy, to the wonders of the natural world. Ralph Waldo Emerson lived in a stately white house just down the way, often hosting the glamorous Margaret Fuller and chatting up newly arrived Nathaniel Hawthorne. Louisa’s father, Amos Bronson Alcott, had himself come to Concord at Emerson’s invitation. This band of thinkers, united by their faith that all men were inherently good and that nature could enrich the soul and intellect, together formed the principal characters in the childhood of one of America’s most loved female authors.The community at Concord would not endure. By 1863, as Louisa entered the third decade of her life, the transcendentalist faith in an imminent new era unshackled by the strictures of the past had dissipated, both in Concord and elsewhere. In its place came the bloody realities of the civil war and a country divided between those who believed in equality for all men and those committed to the enslavement of blacks. The transcendentalist vision of a better world, where all men were free and nature was a source of spiritual replenishment, would never exist again. Depleted perhaps by this very realisation, Thoreau died in 1862; by 1864, Hawthorne was also buried.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Amos Bronson Alcott, Louisa’s father, pictured in 1882. Photograph: Hulton Archive/Getty ImagesLouisa May Alcott may have seen the chasm between ideal and real worlds far earlier than that. Her father Amos, with whom she shared her November birthday, had come to Concord after the failure of the Temple school, an institution he had founded to instil the principles of transcendentalist thought into the young. By 1843, Alcott was ready for his next utopian experiment, and he carted the young Louisa along with her mother and sisters to Fruitlands, a utopian community whose members lived on a farm, ate only vegetables they grew and shunned any kind of commerce. Days began with icy cold showers, followed by paltry meals that could not include even milk or honey. Amos believed that no one and nothing, not even animals, could be exploited. In the meantime, his daughters froze in their threadbare clothes, living out the dicta of their father’s utopian programme.It is no small irony, then, that it was an idealised and sanitised version of this hardscrabble childhood that would become Louisa’s most successful and enduring literary effort. The work of a dutiful daughter to please an ever-exacting father, Little Women was written after Amos met with a publisher who had liked Hospital Sketches, one of Louisa’s earlier (and rarely read) works. A deal was struck between the two men: if Louisa would write a novel about girls, the publisher would provide Amos with a contract for his own work.Louisa was reticent. “I don’t enjoy this sort of thing,” she wrote, adding that she “never liked girls or knew many except my sisters”. Eventually though, she capitulated to her father and wrote Little Women in just 10 weeks. The book was published in 1868 and the fame and fortune it brought her finally permitted the family to lift itself up from poverty. At 36, Louisa had done what her father had never been able to: provide some stability for her long-struggling family.Had actual (not simply literary) immortality been available to writers, she would have turned 184 years old on 29 November 2016. While she may have balked at or been baffled by many of the conventions of today’s America – being the subject of a Google Doodle might have surprised her – the divisions of its politics dominated once again by race and inequality would not have surprised her. The postbellum US into which Little Women was released had been racked by its disagreements over slavery, the southern half couching its support for slavery in the language of economic survival. This year’s presidential election, coming more than 150 years after the end of the civil war, pivoted once again on the maintenance of white privilege, cast now in the coded vocabulary of lost manufacturing jobs.The 100 best novels: No 20 – Little Women by Louisa May Alcott (1868-9) It is perhaps no surprise, then, that a few days after the polls, I saw Little Women appear in a list of titles to read “for comfort” amid the post-election recrimination. The book’s fictive construction of a girlhood idyll, its retreat from a harsh world into the cosiness of hearth and home, can serve up solace, even succour, against political quagmires past and present. If there is any tragedy in the tale, it is that its female author had never wanted to write it, that it was a response to what was needed, expected and even demanded of her by the men in her life; her father and her publisher. This last fact is one often forgotten, laid by the wayside for those who want to preserve the hope of realising the book’s ideals. Whether this taints Little Women is a thought likely to leave readers as divided as postbellum America – whether a writer’s greatest truth lies in her literary creation, or in the literal conditions that goaded its production.