The second series of BBC1’s hit drama Happy Valley ended on Tuesday night, bowing out in a wondrous blaze of confrontation, perceptive resolution and poignant revelation. From the moment it began, the second series was a triumph, not only because of an inventive script and the courageous handling of the plot, but also because of the characters and casting.Happy Valley recap: the series two finale – come hell or high bridge Unusually, Happy Valley is dominated by a company of complex and fascinating middle-aged actors, especially Sarah Lancashire’s troubled but believably compassionate sergeant Catherine Cawood whom we first met humanely but brutally dispatching an injured sheep with a rock. Siobhan Finneran as her sister, Clare Cartwright, is a damaged, struggling heroin addict in recovery, while Shirley Henderson’s lonely teaching assistant is atypically deranged.There is also a lovely cameo for Julie Hesmondhalgh as Amanda Wadsworth, angrily cheating on her already adulterous husband. If you have yet to watch the spellbinding denouement, then also keep an eye out for Susan Lynch as farmer Alison Garrs.In the first series, we cheered when Lancashire’s character beat the crap out of lead villain Tommy Lee Royce until physically restrained, because he had harmed her grandson and hurt her daughter. There is shocking violence, humour and intelligence, all devised and written by another “middle-aged” woman: the amazing Sally Wainwright.I am of a similar vintage and, like many friends and fans of the series, bemoan the fact that we are generally treated by society as silly, weak, daft, soppy, prejudiced (even bigoted), risk-averse and wary of new situations. Alternatively, we are “mutton dressed as lamb” (I hate that phrase) for daring to reject an established age-acceptable dress code of cardigans and sensible shoes. We are also supposedly shocked by sex and drugs (there were promiscuity and cannabis in my youth, you know). I find myself telling “young people” around me a little too often that I used to write for the NME and worked in A&R – perhaps to emphasise that I am aware of modern culture. It doesn’t work, just so you know.Six years ago, I made a career change, and studied for my postgrad at art school. Sadly, I learned that while there would – quite rightly – have been an uproar were any racism, sexism or homophobia to have taken place, there was no similar condemnation when a fellow student approached me to announce: “You’re old.” I utilised my debating skills, countering his assertion and refuting his prejudice by calling him an arsehole. It is testimony to how strong my feelings are about being perceived as an “older” (not old or elderly) woman that I keep my age to myself, because every day I fight perceptions about emerging artists described routinely as being in their 20s. “New” is too often conflated with “young”.Happy Valley has become Britain’s version of The Wire | Emma Brockes But when does middle-age begin? Is it 35? Or 50? For some people it starts when they graduate or have their second child. I suspect the answer is related to behaviour, not just the accumulated birthdays: some people are born that way, and I know many old souls in younger heads. Meanwhile friends are raising late-arriving children or nurturing teenagers, while others are childless, and some are grandmothers.Their lives are all different: they are creating and organising challenging contemporary art, others setting up literary resources, working as DJs and educators, re-entering education or still progressing in karate at age 43, organising gigs and working in the professions. All are simultaneously interesting and forward-thinking.It’s pitiful that the phrase “middle-aged woman” is wrongly equated with being a moody, barren harridan, and not a woman possessing wisdom born of experience, without crippling age-related physical decrepitude. We are in our prime, still strong, living full and interesting lives, not stuck at home festering in a candlewick dressing gown (OK, sometimes, but only when it’s cold and dark outside).We are also the generation likely to be compelled to keep on working into our 70s, which means we will be around for a long time, visible and active, enjoying many opportunities in ways our mothers and grandmothers rarely had the opportunity to do. Depictions in one groundbreaking television programme might not change the mindset of everybody conditioned to view women in their 40s, 50s and 60s as sad and dull, but it did raise my spirits.It was important that Happy Valley used the strength, variety and depth of us “older women”, who not only benefit from colourful lives but also enjoy a hinterland from a life well lived. Remember this: we also have a future.