I was hunkered down in a top floor hotel room in Washington DC, with superstorm Sandy furiously rapping at the window and battering the ceiling, when I first saw this picture of a transformer explosion at a power plant in Manhattan. I was still in the same situation when I saw it the second, third and 10th times. The dramatic white light bursting like a supernova in the rain-lashed dark was one of the few images that enabled news broadcasters to give an instant sense of how serious this night was becoming in New York and New Jersey.In Washington, which was also in the path of the vast storm, they had been talking power outages all weekend, after some DC areas were blacked out for weeks by Hurricane Irene in 2011. This image of a blinding flash that signified a massive loss of electricity was exactly what I didn't want to think about, up in an elevator-accessed hotel room. Before giving in to Washington's lockdown – closing the metro and government offices was one thing  but when Starbucks shut, I knew it had to be serious – I procured hurricane supplies at a bookshop. A power cut now would stop me reading the next chapter of Philip Roth's novel The Ghost Writer.The build-up to Sandy in Washington was apocalyptic, the city's shutdown total, and the rain savage, but the next morning I could walk through the deserted streets kicking the odd fallen branch, and get breakfast at a bakery that had worked through the night. The disaster was elsewhere.Here is the paradox, for me, of this image. Superstorm Sandy is the most "historic" event I have personally been involved in, along with many millions of other people, but what is it to be involved? That was definitely Sandy howling and raging outside the window but it was clearly a much more benign experience of the storm than what I was seeing in this explosive image from New York. That is the nature of big events that get in the history books: even if you were "there" you were probably not there. You were looking the wrong way when Napoleon rode by, on the wrong ship when Nelson expired, manning a forgotten fortification outside Boston when Washington crossed the Delaware.Obviously I was glad to be on the margins of the horror night. Even this image is not the essence of Sandy. The blast of light does not show the human tragedies that were happening in New York, the sad stories of people trapped or overtaken by events or tempted to see the storm up close or determined to walk a dog. There are no pictures of the worst things that happened because when the worst is happening the cameras cannot get there. In that sense a mighty storm is harsher even than war. It is more secret, and death is more private. People get cut off, isolated.The reason CNN kept showing this image all night is that it captures the deep unlikeliness of this hurricane's assault on the most advanced society on earth. The lights of Manhattan are about to go out: the city of skyscrapers is falling before nature's onslaught. With a furious pulse of light, this power plant goes boom and plunges an untold number of people into darkness.Yet I became angry with this image, seeing it again and again on rolling news programmes. In all the hours of live coverage, as reporters and news anchors mulled over the apocalyptic resonance of this transformer explosion, with all the time and silence they had to fill, all those hours of weather to chronicle – there was not a single mention of climate change.Not that anyone needed to make a dogmatic connection between one storm and global warming … But not even to raise it? Now in the aftermath of the storm the mayor of New York has spoken out on the subject. But it would be naive to think America universally drew an environmental "lesson" from the storm. In a way the scale of it was too colossal to be turned into a parable about climate change or anything else.Storms, like battles, are not experienced as allegories but as complex fields of events. At 11 o'clock the next morning I was huddled in a doorway discussing an article on the phone while police officers kept an eye on the near-empty street. The bright light of the exploding generator was a fading, distant flash.