The Observer is offering five lucky readers the chance to win a pair of tickets to one of five 2016 UK music festivals: Field Day, Latitude, Green Man, V or Bestival. To enter, simply fill in your details below, answer the question and select your festival of choice. Please note only one festival can be chosen per entry; V Festival tickets are for either Staffordshire or Essex, not both, as specified by entrant below. Closing date midnight 31 March, winners notified by end of April 2016.Field DayLondon, 11-12 JuneLine-up includes PJ Harvey, Beach House, Deerhunter, Air, Skepta.LatitudeSuffolk, 14-17 JulyLine-up includes Maccabees, The National, New Order, Chvrches.Green Man FestivalBrecon Beacons, 18-21 AugustLine-up includes Belle and Sebastian, James Blake, Warpaint, Wild Beasts.V Festival Staffordshire/Essex, 20-21 AugustLine-up includes Rihanna, Justin Bieber, Sia, David Guetta.BestivalIsle of Wight, 8-11 SeptemberLine-up includes the Cure, Major Lazer, Animal Collective, Carl Cox.Terms and conditions1. The Observer Summer Festivals 2016 prize draw (the “Prize Draw”) is open to residents of the UK aged 18 and over.2. The Prize Draw is not open to employees or agencies of Guardian News & Media Limited (“GNM” or the “Promoter”), their group companies or family members, or anyone else connected to the Prize Draw.3. Entrants into the Prize Draw shall be deemed to have accepted these Terms and Conditions.4. To enter the Prize Draw you must visit theguardian.com/music/2016/mar/13/observer-summer-festivals-competition and answer the multiple choice question correctly, enter all of the details requested and specify which of the five music festivals listed you would like to attend (in the case of V Festival, specify one of two locations). In the event of there being no entries for a particular festival, a further random draw will take place including all entrants and one winner will be selected at random. If you have any questions about how to enter or otherwise in connection with the Prize Draw, please email us at promotions@theguardian.com with “Observer Summer Festivals comeptition 2016” in the subject line.5. Only one entry per person. Entries on behalf of another person will not be accepted and joint submissions are not allowed. You are responsible for the cost (if any) of sending your Prize Draw entry to us. The winners shall be the owners of the email addresses from which the selected winning entries are sent.6. GNM accepts no responsibility for entries that are lost, delayed, misdirected or incomplete or cannot be delivered or entered for any technical or other reason. Proof of delivery of the entry is not proof of receipt by GNM.7. The Prize Draw closes at 23:59 on 31 March 2015. Entries received outside this time period will not be considered.8. Five winners will be selected based on answering the multiple choice question correctly, and each winner will receive one of the following five prizes (a-e). Prizes will be allocated by GNM, and it will not be possible to exchange your prize for tickets to a different festival:a. Bestival One pair of full weekend wristbands for Bestival including Wild Copse Premium Camping and VIP Lucky Cat bar upgrade. Bestival takes place from 8th-11th September at Robin Hill Country Park, Isle of Wight. For more information, please visit bestival.netb. Field Day One pair of 2-day festival wristbands to Field Day, which takes place over the weekend of the 11th & 12th June 2016, at Victoria Park, London, with headliners James Blake and PJ Harvey. For full details on this festival and to see the festival’s terms and conditions, please click here - fielddayfestivals.com/line-up/c. Green man One pair of 4-day festival wristbands to Green Man 2016 which takes place from 18 – 21 August 2016 in Crickhowell, Wales. For full details on this festival and to see the festival’s terms and conditions, please visit greenman.net d. Latitude One pair of Latitude Festival Weekend Camping tickets, which takes place on Thursday 14th - Sunday 17th July 2016 in Henham Park, Suffolk. For full details on Latitude visit latitudefestival.com and to see the festival’s terms and conditions, please click heree. V FestivalOne pair of tickets to V Festival in either Weston Park, Staffordshire or Hylands Park, Essex (winner chooses which location they would like to attend), which takes place from 20 - 21 August 2016 . For full details on this festival visit vfestival.com and to see the festival’s terms and conditions, please click here