Lucie Horsch arrives with a small backpack from which she produces half a dozen recorders of various sizes. Showing the skills of an assembler of Ikea furniture, she puts them together at lightning speed, before giving a demonstration of her art.Horsch is the latest big thing in recorder playing, if that’s not a contradiction in terms. She is 17, Dutch, gamine – as, it seems, recorder players ideally should be – and has just released a charming disc of Vivaldi concertos,  the first recorder player ever to sign to Decca Classics. Recorder playing, sometimes seen as the Cinderella of classical music, is going to be allowed to come to the ball. She has been playing the recorder since she was five. Nothing unusual there, it is the starter instrument for many children. The difference is that she stuck with it. “My parents are both professional cellists,” she tells me. “They thought the recorder would be a step-up instrument to a ‘real’ one, probably a string instrument. But in the end it turned out that the recorder is a real instrument, and you can continue with it.”Lucie Horsch performs a short extract from her new album exclusively for the GuardianTherein lies the problem facing recorder players – the perception that it’s for kids learning to bash out squeaky tunes on cheap plastic instruments before graduating to the real thing. Horsch and several other emerging talents are doing all they can to counter that image.“Many people say the repertoire is limited,” says Horsch, “but we do have good variety. You can play on Renaissance recorders, we have medieval music, and we have baroque music, which is a completely different type of recorder and a different way of playing.” There is also a fair amount of 20th-century repertoire. What there isn’t is anything from the classical and Romantic periods, when the recorder was replaced by other wind instruments. As a result, there is rarely a place for recorder players in an orchestra, and they have to make their own way in the musical world.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lucie teaches Stephen Moss to play the recorder. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianWith her musical pedigree – her father Gregor is principal cellist of the Concertgebouw Orchestra – she could have played anything, so why has she devoted herself to the recorder, with its trickier career progression? “I fell in love with the sound,” she says. “I also liked the feeling that I had something different from other people. You blow very directly into a recorder and the sound is flexible, so it feels like an instrument that is close to yourself. It’s similar to the relationship singers have with their own voice. You can hear anything. If you are nervous, you hear it immediately.”Another prodigious young player is the German-born 25-year-old Tabea Debus, currently a fellow at the Royal Academy in London. She plays recorder and cello, but plans to make her way as a professional recorder player and teacher. “There is a lot of baroque repertoire,” she tells me, “but I really like contemporary music too.” She also commissions works for the recorder and transcribes pieces written for other instruments.And the public image question? “Lots of people have played the recorder and some have had mixed experiences of it, but generally it’s a really good start because people know the instrument and have a way into the music. We can meet them where they are, then take them further and show what the instrument can really do.” Debus doesn’t fret about the lack of 18th and 19th-century repertoire. “What comes before and after is enough for a lifetime or more,” she insists.The young British player Charlotte Barbour-Condini struck a blow for the instrument when she reached the final of BBC Young Musician in 2012, aged 16. She is now studying history at University College London, but plans to pursue a professional career as a recorder player and has already had approaches from record companies.Barbour-Condini studies with Barbara Law, who also teaches at the Royal Academy. I ask Law how difficult it is to build a career as a recorder player. “We have this perception that it must be really difficult, but it’s difficult for any musician,” she says. “It’s harder because you don’t have the option of being in an orchestra, but even that’s changing now. People have to be much more versatile as musicians and nobody just sits in an orchestral job for 30 or 40 years any more, partly because you’d go round the bend.”Law stresses that part of the appeal of the recorder is that it’s not just one instrument but many. “You’ve got the big instruments that give you the deep sound, the small instruments, Renaissance instruments that give you a big, open sound and the very precise, elegant baroque recorders.” There are also new recorders being developed, but Law offers a note of warning there. “They give you a bigger sound,” she says, “but there can come a point where they stop sounding like a recorder and produce a more generic woodwind sound. It loses the quality of the recorder sound.”Law, like Horsch, stresses the “vulnerability” of the recorder. “There’s nothing to cover you, and in that way it’s much closer to the human voice. There’s very little barrier between you and what comes out.” She is also confident about the instrument’s future. “I think it’s strong at the moment. In terms of people’s awareness of it as a proper instrument, we are in a good position, and Charlotte and Sophie Westbrooke [a BBC Young Musician finalist in 2014] being on the telly really helped.” Barbour-Condini sounds less bullish. “I think I will always be explaining what I do to people, which is fine. You’ve just got to be aware of that and work with it.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Pamela Thorby, professor of recorder at the Royal Academy and one of the world’s leading players, tells me to stop obsessing about the instrument’s supposed image problems. “I have been busy being a musician at the top of my profession for 25 years now, and my instrument happens to be the recorder.”Thorby says she has never felt she was in a musical backwater or that she had to struggle for recognition. “I never felt stigmatised by my instrument,” she says. “There have since the 1960s, and starting with Frans Brüggen, been a number of recorder players with the alchemic mixture of musicality, technical skill, staying power, intellect and ability to communicate their art who have been able to compete on the same level as any other instrumentalist. Not everyone likes the sound, but it is up to the performer to persuade the listener and make you forgot their instrument. Ultimately it is how you express yourself, not what you express yourself with, that is of interest.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The other leading British recorder player of the past 30 years is Piers Adams, who, with his band Red Priest have pioneered a hybrid form that marries baroque and rock music. Adams also names Brüggen as the key figure in the revival of the instrument in the 1960s. “He was the person who discovered that the recorder could be properly expressive. Up to that point people had played it, but it always sounded like a medieval re-enactment and a little bit wobbly. Until then it was very much a minority sport; he brought it into the big time.” Adams says early music pioneer David Munrow performed a similar role in the UK, and in the 1960s the recorder rediscovered its place in classical music. Then in the 1980s and 90s, according to Adams, interest in early music plateaued, and recorder players were forced to branch out. He formed Red Priest in 1997, and has been touring ever since, performing souped-up versions of baroque repertoire alongside contemporary work. In a way he is a model for the new generation of players, who realise they have to be imaginative in carving out their own identity. “There was a feeling when it [the rediscovery in the 1960s] started that it would all take off and the recorder would be a mainstream instrument in 20 years’ time,” says Adams. “But it wasn’t. It went up and down again. So by the early 90s there were suddenly an awful lot of out-of-work recorder players trying to figure out what on earth to do.”In Adams’ view, the quirks of the instrument and the gaps in the repertoire are a challenge, not an inhibition. Violinists are likely to spend their lives playing chamber works from the classical period and the great Romantic concertos. Recorder players can do what they want. Apart from the likely early grounding in Vivaldi, Telemann and Bach, there are no givens, no boundaries. To some that will be a scary prospect; to others a boundlessly fascinating one.• Lucie Horsch’s debut recording, Vivaldi, is out now on Decca Classics.