It’s easy to forget how threatening society once found the comedy of emasculation. When Billy Wilder’s Some Like It Hot bowed in theaters in 1959, featuring Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis as on-the-run musicians who dress up as women to escape from the mob (and get rather lost in the fun of the masquerade) the Catholic-run National Legion of Decency condemned the movie as “morally objectionable” for promoting homosexuality, lesbianism and transvestism.Channing Tatum to play mermaid in Splash as remake does gender swap The era of gender swap comedies in which male actors won laughs by cross-dressing seems to have peaked in the 80s and 90s, when Dustin Hoffman was nominated for an Oscar for Tootsie, and Robin Williams won a Golden Globe for Mrs Doubtfire. But as society has come to be more accepting of less rigid concepts of gender identity, the comedy value of transvestism has perhaps dwindled in parallel with its ability to shock. These days, the big screen conversation on gender has switched largely over to the realms of serious drama – The Danish Girl springs to mind – where many would say it belongs.And yet there remains unexpected joy to be had in the confounding of expectations, as the recent Ghostbusters remake proved by casting Chris Hemsworth, aka Norse deity-cum-superhero Thor in the Marvel movies, in the role of the spirit-spiting quartet’s secretary, Kevin. The role, of course, was played by the brilliant Annie Potts in the original, with deadly dry Big Apple insouciance. Now it looks like Disney is set to pull the same trick by casting another icon of 21st-century masculinity, Magic Mike’s Channing Tatum, in Daryl Hannah’s role in a remake of the 1980s mermaid comedy Splash. Ron Howard’s 1984 movie is a preposterous male fantasy in which everyman Tom Hanks swaps his loveless big city existence for a new life with an awesomely hot blonde who just happens to transform into a fish (from the waist down) when she makes contact with water. If there has ever been a more objectified screen character than Hannah’s Madison the mermaid – she’s never even given a surname – they probably only exist in Transformers films and episodes of Baywatch. Which is exactly why the role is so perfect for Tatum.When female stars are objectified, the result usually leaves a nasty taste in the mouth. When their male counterparts become objects of desire, comedy tends to ensue. Tatum knows this well, as he climbed to the top of the Hollywood ladder by starring as a greased-up male stripper in Steven Soderbergh’s remarkable Magic Mike.Kit Harington: film industry guilty of 'sexism towards men' Tatum and Hemsworth may not be pulling on frocks in these movies, but they might as well be. Ghostbusters riffed heavily on Kevin’s hunky masculinity, with the Aussie lunk presented as the ultimate in eye candy, a young man who is only permitted to be so terrible at his job as the team’s receptionist because he fills out a white T and jeans so nicely. It goes without saying that this is the kind of ludicrous archetype society once expected to be filled exclusively by women. It doesn’t take a man in the role to highlight what an insanely dumb concept objectification is, but Ghostbusters director Paul Feig and his team nevertheless hit the comedy bullseye in every scene Hemsworth appears in.Furthermore, and as Game of Thrones’ Kit Harington so painfully failed to work out recently, there are no losers when male stars self-emasculate for comedy purposes. In the wake of his star supporting turn in Ghostbusters, Hemsworth has given himself shelf-life beyond the current ream of superhero flicks. By taking the fishy love interest role in Splash, Tatum has not only found the perfect followup to the fast running-out-of-steam Magic Mike movies, he’s shown admirable humility and industry savvy. With all the fuss made over Ghostbusters by the “bro” brigade, the switching of another quintessentially female role to male was always going to be front-page news on Hollywood-obsessed sites. If the role had not been gender-swapped, the new movie would have been seen as just another remake.Hollywood itself also wins here, by reminding us how far it has come since the sight of Curtis and Lemmon dressed up as ladies was enough to prompt cries of moral outrage. Earlier generations may have broken the real boundaries, but there is no reason why studios can’t capitalise on the faint echoes of controversy that still permeate whenever certain outdated concepts of male identity are challenged. If Tatum’s involvement ushers in success on a level with that of Magic Mike, one of the most profitable comedies of the last decade, expect them to be laughing all the way to the bank. 