Here is this week’s playlist – songs picked by a reader from your suggestions after last week’s callout. Thanks for taking part.  about how our weekly series works at the end of the piece.Sir Francis Bacon was said to have written scientia potentia est – loosely that “knowledge is power”, the title of the first song on our playlist – though he didn’t actually coin the phrase, which most likely came from much earlier Persian and Arabic texts. It’s an idea that of course lives on: Yuval Noah Harari has recently postulated that we are now living in a knowledge-based economy and that those countries mired in material economies are doomed to fight endless wars, fighting over resources such as gas and oil. The Ethiopians, with their song Knowledge Is Power, recognise that example is better than preaching, and that to get on when in Rome, you must learn their ways and do as they do.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The YouTube playlist.On Tuesday the World Meteorological Organisation announced that 2016 was the hottest year since records began. It said we are entering “uncharted territory”. The last time our home was this warm was 115,000 years ago. We have rising sea levels, extremes of temperature and weather, and denial from those in power. Talking Heads say, in Road to Nowhere, “Well we know where we’re going, but we don’t know where we’ve been” – which is probably correct, because we have to imagine what life on Earth was like in the distant past, and what it will be like if our biosphere is altered only a fraction by human activity. But while we’re still here, we might as well examine some of our experiences, ones that future generations may well forego. Introspection, for instance. Who will have the time or energy for it? Richard Hell and the Voidoids describe in Destiny Street Richard’s stepping off the curb into 10 years ago and meeting his 21-year-old self, who is horrified to see the man he became. We have now broached self-knowledge, and both Hells are disappointed.Bill Withers, in his classic and much-covered Ain’t No Sunshine, has achieved self-knowledge – but it’s no use to him. Trouble is, he remains static, lacking a solution, unable to deal with his predicament and unable to move on. His young lady is too much of a young lady for him, and he is an old fool. He knows this and berates himself for his folly. In between beating himself up, he takes her back. She feeds his optimism, takes what she can and splits, leaving him distraught at his own foolishness, knowing that he is trapped forever in a self-destructive loop.Sunshine again, now. I can’t tell you more than They Might Be Giants do in their wonderful Why Does the Sun Shine? (The Sun Is a Mass of Incandescent Gas). Musically, they seem to be channeling the Pogues, but their lyrics contains rather more scientific information than your average pop song. If there’s anything you need to teach a child about the sun, steer them this way.Speaking of teaching children, Graham Nash, of Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young, wrote the first verse of Teach Your Children as adult-to-adult advice. But the last verse reverses the situation. Now the children are being asked to teach their parents. Which is fine if you can get them to listen and pay attention … Maybe you could in those days, but ultimately, no matter how they try, parents and children are always going to lose each other to new ideas.On the other hand, some people can’t – or won’t – learn. The protagonist in XTC’s Mayor of Simpleton possesses enough self-knowledge to declare to all and sundry that he can’t have been there when brains were handed out. He’s not proud of the fact that he never learned much, but says that what you get is real, he can’t put on an act. It takes brains to do that, at least. Lawrence Parker begat Krisna, who begat Kris, who begat KRS-One (Knowledge Reigns Supreme Over Nearly Everyone). The bridge between reggae and rap, KRS-One sent Boogie Down Productions out into the world to teach, promote, promulgate and propogate black history. He rose out of a homeless shelter in the South Bronx, and challenged the lies told by educators and threw light on their omissions. The man could have been a great schoolteacher. Boogie Down Productions’ You Must Learn features KRS-One at his most insistent, a beacon of controlled incandescence, describing how how the withdrawal of knowledge and the creation of ignorance provide the means of control.“Something I learned today / Black and white is always gray.” SIn other words, nothing is ever cut and dried. We manipulate facts and figures so they conform to our own reality. Ambiguity and imprecision are the tools of the obfuscator, the smoke and mirrors man. Listening to Husker Dü’s Something I Learned Today, plugging in to Bob Mould’s punkishly passionate anger, a vision of an orange man appeared, his lips forming sneers and smirks as he spoke, his language veering from charcoal to ash.Johnny Cash’s Get Rhythm provides us with the simplest solution of all, when it comes to raising ourselves from a dark and lonely place. Cash asks a shoeshine boy who works low down at peoples’ feet “on the windy corner of a dirty street,” how come he’s so cheerful. The little boy tells Johnny that he pops his shoeshine rag to the rhythm of rock’n’roll. Get rhythm, it wards off the blues. Johnny acquired knowledge that day, but for us it’s a snapshot of another time, another world, a different philosophy; all in a snappy little rock song.In 1949 Carl Sigman and Herb Magidson sat down and wrote a song, a happy tune that survives, through various versions to this day. Three decades later, to a bouncing ska rhythm, the Specials’ Enjoy Yourself (It’s Later Than You Think) landed among us. The band’s appealing exhortations to enjoy our youth while we can are leavened with equal stress on gaining “wisdom, knowledge and understanding, these three were given free by the maker”. We learn here that knowledge need not be acquired through asceticism, pain, profound revelations or bitter experience. Joy, enlightenment, conversation and humility are all signposts on the road to wisdom.Last, Billy Bragg’s No One Knows Nothing Any More kicks off with particle acceleration before switching to economics, corporate spin and a Zen hermit. Rather than the sound of a tree falling, Bragg hears a head banging against a wall. He finishes the song by reflecting on our hominid ancestors in the trees, cleverly evoking the story of Adam and Eve and the tree of knowledge of good and evil.New theme: how to join inThe new theme will be announced at 8pm (GMT) on Thursday 23 March. You then have until 11pm on Monday 27 March to submit nominations.Here’s a reminder of some of the guidelines for Readers recommend:If you have a good theme idea, or if you’d like to volunteer to compile a playlist from readers’ suggestions and write a blog about it, please email matthew.holmes@theguardian.com.There is a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are “zedded”, at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of “zedded”, “donds” and other strange words used by RR regulars.Many RR regulars also congregate at the ’Spill blog. 