Children find junk-food advertising funny and tempting to the extent that one boy told interviewers he could “lick the screen”, according to research by a health charity.A qualitative survey carried out by Cancer Research UK suggests that entertaining TV adverts for sweets, crisps and fast food have a real impact on primary school children, reinforcing the calls by health organisations for tougher advertising curbs in the forthcoming government childhood obesity strategy.CRUK’s researchers talked to 137 children in 25 small focus groups in six schools in England and Scotland to find out how familiar they were with TV advertising, when they watched it and what effect it had on them. While there are bans on junk-food advertising during children’s TV shows, most were exposed to it while watching programmes with their families between 7pm and 9pm.The children in years 4 and 6 at primary school, aged between eight and 12, were also shown some adverts. They appreciated humour and said the adverts made them feel hungry.Ban takeaway deliveries to schools to stem obesity, children urge “With the [take-away pizza] advert, like they’re just so cool and they’re so yum,” said one boy from Oxfordshire in year 4. “We always have to go and get it because I can’t resist not going without [pizza] when I see the advert ... At the end he like smashes ... the [pizza] on the screen and you feel like you’re just going to lick the screen.”A boy from Northamptonshire in year 6 said adverts could bring on a craving for certain types of food. “You might be eating a piece of fruit, you might see the advert and you might just throw it in the bin and ask your mum for money and leg it to the shop,” he said. One girl in year 5 from North Lanarkshire spoke of advertising persuading children that eating something would make them feel happy. “It makes you feel as if you’re happy and excited, and it feels like you want to try it because the guy’s dancing in it because he’s eaten it and it tastes good,” she said.A boy from Hertfordshire in year 4 testified to pester-power. “I saw this sweet cake I’d like … and my mum was sitting next to me, and I was like: ‘You’ve got to buy that by tomorrow,’” he said.Many of the children said they enjoyed watching engaging adverts and could recall advertising theme tunes. The researchers say they believe that by using celebrities, bright colours and funny voices, advertisements are able to attract children and influence their eating habits.Alison Cox, director of prevention at CRUK, said: “It’s clear the restrictions already in place during children’s TV shows aren’t enough. Children are watching junk food adverts during family programmes where these restrictions don’t apply.“The rise in children’s obesity is a huge concern and a growing epidemic. There must be no delay in taking action. We know that obese children are around five times more likely to be obese adults, and obese adults are more likely to develop cancer. This is why we need regulations to stop junk-food advertising on TV before the 9pm watershed to give children a better chance of a healthy life.”Growing numbers of children have type 2 diabetes, figures show CRUK was supported in the call by the Obesity Health Alliance, a coalition of more than 30 health charities, campaign groups, and royal medical colleges. The alliance also wants regulation to reduce sugar, salt and saturated fat in foods.The research “highlights how exposure to junk-food advertising can make it extremely difficult for children and their families to make healthy food choices,” said the alliance in a statement. “Currently a third of children in their final year of primary school in the UK are overweight or obese, which is a massive tragedy because obese children are more likely to grow into obese adults, at greater risk of serious health conditions such as type 2 diabetes, cancer, liver and cardiovascular disease and have poor mental health.”Prof Neena Modi, president of the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health, urged the government to publish its delayed strategy. “Obesity can kill as effectively as lung cancer, so surely it’s time to stop the food industries peddling these unnecessary wares to children. If the advertising of cigarettes can be banned, so too can advertising junk food,” she said.