A police officer may not be the most obvious choice to headline an arts festival. But then Colin Taylor – known as the Scilly sergeant – is no ordinary copper.Taylor, whose beat is the archipelago 30 miles off Britain’s south-west coast, built up a cult global following with his tweets and Facebook posts about life on the Isles of Scilly. He will headline on 13 May during the inaugural Isles of Scilly festival, a month-long celebration of arts and culture. He will read from his new book, The Life of a Scilly Sergeant, to be published the following month. Taylor describes his job as “like Heartbeat but less frenetic”, a reference to the gentle ITV police drama set in 1960s rural Yorkshire.Scilly is sometimes called the “land that crime forgot” and jobs Taylor has done include rushing to the aid of a stray seal pup that had found its way on to the high street and resolving a drunken row between two chefs on the relative merits of rock salt and sea salt.But he has to be on guard against smugglers, who might see Scilly as a soft route into the UK. And last year the force was involved when a large chunk of the unmanned US rocket SpaceX Falcon 9 washed up on one of the islands after exploding following take-off in Florida.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Nasa SpaceX wreckage found off Isles of ScillyThe latest post on Scilly police’s Facebook page reports that a man was airlifted to hospital after being wounded in a suspected public order incident involving a knife on the island of St Martin’s on Monday. But, no doubt, Taylor will keep it light when he appears at the festival. “We’re delighted that Colin Taylor will be appearing at our first Isles of Scilly festival to talk about the day-to-day trials and tribulations of a small-island police officer,” said Zoe Parry, an events manager for Visit Isles of Scilly. “It’ll be one of many highlights in our packed programme of artistic workshops, literary talks and cultural experiences across the islands. The Isles of Scilly have been a source of inspiration to writers, artists and craftspeople for generations. We can’t wait to welcome new and returning visitors to Scilly to what will be a very special programme of events showcasing our rich and diverse creativity.”