Alan Carr’s Happy Hour 8pm, Channel 4 The title and the setting of this new show – which will be filmed at a social club – suggests an evening of slightly tipsy and possibly gently anarchic chatshow fun. Sadly, it has already been confirmed that drunken highjinks will not be on the agenda, but even so Carr is a reliably slick operator and this variety format could prove a good fit for his talents. Expect celebrity guests, standup comedy and live music with your hyperactive, mildly saucy ringmaster. Phil HarrisonRick Stein’s Long Weekends9pm, BBC2Even in comparison with his default level of relaxed assurance, Stein is comfortable in Cádiz. The chef’s mini-break features every kind of fish and seafood; so fresh it is twitching when it hits the olive oil or the salted water, and always washed down with sherry. Stein cooks his own baked bream, arroz verde and flamenco eggs, but he’s best when meeting local heroes or just knocking around little eateries, soaking up the atmos. And the sherry. Jack SealeWalliams & Friend 9.30pm, BBC1The conceit here is that every week David Walliams’s sketches are played opposite a different sidekick. Tonight, it is Jack Whitehall, who proves a surprisingly versatile counterpoint, as a pathological status-flaunter and a passive-aggressive Sherlock Holmes, among others. It doesn’t all land – dating shows have long been in on their own joke – but the album of operatic football chants feels as if it could one day be revealed as prophecy. Andrew MuellerThe People’s History of Pop10pm, BBC4Episode four in this sporadic series of pop-as-social-history docs, this time with Lauren Laverne at the helm. Tonight’s episode focuses on the decade between 1986 and 1996. Enjoyable are reminiscences of rave, the Haçienda and hip-hop, but the best story is probably from Paul Johnson. A shy young man, he went to Ibiza on holiday and underwent a clubbing conversion, resolving to bring some Balearic flavour to his own club night in Bury St Edmunds. John RobinsonDarbar Festival 20166pm, Sky ArtsTuck into another helping of Indian classical music recorded live at London’s Southbank Centre earlier this year. The lineup is diverse, from veterans to rising stars bringing a modern twist. Maverick of the sitar Niladri Kumar collaborates with Rakesh Chaurasia and Jayanthi Kumaresh, along with cellist Matthew Barley and the Philharmonia Orchestra. As ever, Sky Arts makes the music the star, celebrating its greatness rather than waffling on. Hannah VerdierUnreported World: Sex for Grades 7.30pm, Channel 4School is supposed to be both a sanctuary and a route to a successful life. Yet according to this disturbing documentary, for millions of girls it’s a place where they face being abused. Reporter Kiki King and director Karim Shah visit Mozambique to investigate the phenomenon of “sex for grades”. The Mozambican Ministry of Education, we learn, has found that 70% of schoolgirls either face this kind of intimidation or witness it. Jonathan Wright15 Years of Terror11.30pm, PBS AmericaFifteen years after 9/11, global terrorism has not exceeded that spectacular feat of bloodshed in the west, but has persisted and evolved nonetheless. This US doc shows how the battle with terrorists has become more technologically focused. The US has responded with heightened surveillance and morally questionable techniques such as drone strikes, while terrorists have spawned new, self-radicalising recruits via social networks. David StubbsFilm choiceThe Revenant, (Alejandro González Iñárritu, 2015), 11.45am, 8pm, Sky Cinema PremiereIñárritu’s majestically shot tale of wilderness survival, based on 1820s frontiersman Hugh Glass. Leonardo DiCaprio is horrendously mangled by an angry bear and left for dead by weaselly fellow trapper John Fitzgerald (Tom Hardy). For sheer physical endurance while shooting in hugely arduous conditions, you can’t begrudge DiCaprio his Oscar. Paul HowlettLive sportGolf: Ladies European Tour The third day at the inaugural staging of the Qatar Ladies Open. 8am, Sky Sports 4 Premiership Rugby: Northampton Saints v Newcastle Falcons Coverage of the top-flight match from Kingston Park. 7pm, BT Sport 1Test Cricket: India v England The first day of the third Test in the five-match series, taking place in Mohali. 3.30am, Sky Sports 2