Jane is a fairly typical artist who is trying to build and maintain her career. She has had reasonable success with her art thus far but has needed to subsidise her income by taking on work as a graphic designer. Now she has decided to return to art school in order to get university qualifications and commit fully to her professional artistic practice. To do this as a single parent, she needs to rely on Centrelink to cover basics such as food, energy and rent for herself and her young daughter.Jane is required to demonstrate to Centrelink that she completes 40 hours of study, works a minimum of eight hours, applies for six jobs a month and completes other compulsory training during the summer break. There is little time left for parenting and domestic duties let alone making art, gaining experience, establishing relationships with the arts institutions and galleries that might show her work – the professional networks necessary to her career.If festival crowds can unite to help a crowd surfer, they can unite against sexual assault | Jonathan Seidler The biggest hurdle is that Jane is obliged to apply for any work she is deemed suitable for, not just jobs that are relevant to her professional goals, because Centrelink does not acknowledge that being an artist is a profession. Though Jane has a sympathetic job agent, she is not being assisted to find relevant paid work based on her skill set and her career goals. For example, she has been asked to take on work as a house painter, which has little to do with being a fine artist.Jane’s name has been changed but she is a real person, and this is not the only challenge that artists such as Jane face. In a very volatile arts market, artists can have a sell-out exhibition at a commercial gallery one year and, two years later, their next show sells nothing. If pre-existing artworks are loaned by the artist for an exhibition in a public gallery they are usually not offered payment. If the public gallery commissions artists to produce a new work, usually the gallery will pay the cost of materials and associated production costs but not necessarily a fee for the labour involved in the creative process or time spent actually creating the work. When this happens, the artist is essentially being expected to give their time for nothing and must contend with the attitude that they should be grateful to be offered “exposure”.To take up the cause of industrial fairness for artists and other arts professionals, the peak industry body, the National Association for the Visual Arts (Nava), has launched a Fair Pay for Artists campaign. Nava argues that artists deserve the same recompense as all other professionals who are paid for their labour, as well as the cost of any materials they use in their work.Artists are prepared to make extraordinary sacrifices because of their passion for their vocation. It usually takes between five and 10 years for artists to become established, and even then their average annual earnings from all sources are $34,900 according to the most recent survey by Australia’s pre-eminent arts economist, Prof David Throsby.The situation has been exacerbated by recent government funding cuts, which have seen the national arts funding body grants to individual artists drop by 70% and the defunding of 50% of the small-to-medium-sized visual arts organisations by the Australia Council.The Fair Pay for Artists campaign calls on the federal government to allocate $5m annually to establish an artists fees fund. This would enable cash-strapped public galleries to be able to pay artists’ fees at least to the level recommended in the industry code of practice. Over the past few years, momentum has been building in many other countries for the payment of fees to artists for their labour, over and above the costs of production of their artworks. In Sweden, for example, the payment of artists’ fees is enshrined in the MU agreement, which includes a deal between national visual art organisations and the Swedish state. Similar agreements exist in Norway, Finland, Canada and Poland.What about superannuation? Surely artists and arts professionals should be paid super, too? Information from the Australian Tax Office is ambiguous on this point due to lack of clarity about whether artists and other art professionals are employees or contractors. The result is that many who are providing their services to galleries and public events are not being paid the super to which other Australian citizens are entitled. The Fair Pay for Artists campaign is making the case for superannuation to be added to fees for artists and art professionals.Ozflix and chill: do we really need a streaming platform just for Australian films? | Luke Buckmaster Nava also calls for the government to introduce an artists’ income supplement pension, which would kick in when an artist’s income falls below the poverty level. This would enable them to concentrate on their art practice rather than having to constantly take on survival work. Many similar schemes have been operating across Europe for years. In Germany, for example, the Artists’ Social Security Act has been operating for more than 30 years and provides health insurance, the old age pension and nursing care for self-employed artists. Unlike regular social security, there is no income threshold. These schemes are designed to enable artists to develop sustainable careers while also providing for a dignified old age, like everyone else in the community. With 85% of Australians saying they highly value the rich and meaningful contribution the arts make to their lives, Nava maintains that it is time for practical steps to be taken to ensure that the people who generate the cultural wealth of Australia are given the same dignity and respect as all other workers.