Right about now, Australian government delegates in Germany would no doubt have been hoping they would be celebrating a historic moment when the world's biggest marine reserves were created in Antarctica.Perhaps a jug or two of German beverage may have been consumed. Instead, as one campaigner messaged me earlier today, advocates were "crying into our beer steins".Campaigners and the Australian delegation are left scratching their heads as to why Russia and Ukraine blocked the proposals with an "11th hour" challenge, which, it seems, nobody saw coming.The setting was the German port city of Bremerhaven for a specially-called meeting of the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR) – a group with a voting membership of 24 countries plus the European Union.As I outlined a few weeks ago here on Planet Oz:One proposal comes from Australia, France and the European Union that would create seven MPAs in East Antarctica covering 1.63 million square kilometres.The US and New Zealand have another proposal to create a single MPA in the Ross Sea of about 2.3 million square kilometres including a "no take" area of 1.6 million square kilometres (for comparison, the UK is 245,000 square kilometres, Texas 696,000 and Queensland and Alaska are both about 1.7 million).The areas in question are considered to be one of the few remaining places on the planet which have largely escaped human impact, with unique ecosystems providing a home to iconic species including seals, whales, penguins and thousands of other species. Vast areas would be protected from fishing and act as reference points for scientists studying climate change.But during the meeting it became clear Russia and Ukraine were challenging the legal right of CCAMLR to establish the MPAs. Campaigners were obviously wary that Russia might not be keen to go along with the plans. Sir Richard Branson and filmmaker James Cameron joined others in writing to Russian President Vladimir Putin asking him to show leadership.Yet the position of Russia and Ukraine did not shift and because CCAMLR requires all members to agree on any new rules, the proposals fell at the final hurdle. Now those same proposals will head to a conventional meeting of CCAMLR in October.  Dr Tony Fleming, director of Australian Antarctic Division. Photograph: Glenn Jacobson /Australian Antarctic DivisionAfter the meeting, which ended a few hours ago, I spoke over the phone from Germany to Dr Tony Fleming, the director of the Australian Antarctic Division and the Australian commissioner for CCAMLR.He said the only blocking issue was that Russia and Ukraine had decided to unexpectedly challenge the right of CCAMLR to create MPAs. He said a previous meeting that included Russia and Ukraine had agreed that CCAMLR should create a framework for MPAs.I can't read those nations' motivations. From Australia's perspective we believe – as many nations do – that CCAMLR has a mandate to create Marine Protected Areas. The fact that in 2011 by consensus CCAMLR agreed to a framework to create MPAs in the southern ocean demonstrated that CCAMLR believes it has a mandate. I'm very disappointed. We came to Germany to negotiate on these proposals and I'm very disappointed that we were not able to reach a consensus. We will keep plugging on.But one of the things that we took out of the meeting as a positive indication was that most of the nations endorsed both of these proposals and the scientific committee had said they were based on the best available science.Dr Fleming said that the issue of CCAMLR having a "legal mandate" had not been raised before the meeting.We had many discussions with many proponents during the interval between October last year and this meeting. It came as a surprise to us that this issue was raised at the 11th hour at this meeting. That was the issue that prevented a couple of nations from being able to negotiate those two proposals.Most nations spoke in favour of both of these proposals. They had some issues to negotiate through but they were readily negotiable. A couple of nations' difficulties with the legal mandate meant we were not able to pursue negotiations in detail.Dr Fleming said an offer had now been made to "all CCAMLR nations" to have further talks between now and the next scheduled meeting in October in Hobart.Australia believes there is no legal issue about that mandate to create MPAs. We will put our proposal to the next meeting and hope that we can achieve consensus. That's all that we can do.It's up to the nations that have those difficulties to decide whether they are real difficulties and if they decide they are real difficulties they should come to CCAMLR with a proposed solution.Australia considers the creation of MPAs in the southern ocean as very important. CCAMLR has a very proud record of pro-active conservation and sustainable management of resources. This would have been the first time that CCAMLR has focused on a measure that would protect all of the ecosystem and that's a very important step in the evolution of CCAMLR. People should still have faith that CCAMLR can deliver a positive outcome.You can imagine the relationship between the Russian and Ukraine CCAMLR delegations and some of the other nations – particularly Australia, New Zealand, USA, France and the European Union – are now about as frigid as the waters in Antarctica.