Peter Maxwell Davies, who has died aged 81 of leukaemia, was a huge figure in British postwar music – and a deeply enigmatic one. Through his staggering productivity as a composer, his visibility as a conductor and as someone with a high profile who was always willing to sign petitions for good causes, he seemed in one sense ubiquitous. Yet, in another he was a remote and elusive figure, his monk-like austerity and seriousness out of place in an era of conspicuous superfluity. He lived far away from the centres of culture, in Orkney, for much of the time in a remote clifftop house on Hoy which for many years had no electricity.His cultural framework, though wide, was also remote. He sought out only things that would fortify his inner world – St Thomas Aquinas and the architecture of Filippo Brunelleschi were two favourite sources – while those things that simply cross everybody’s path, such as the latest novel, exhibition or (God forbid) pop song, held no interest for him.In some ways he was the archetypal self-made boy from the north, in the same mould as Richard Hoggart, with an unswerving loyalty to high culture. But unlike the effusive Hoggart, Maxwell Davies was a sphinx. He showed exactly the same mild old-fashioned courtesy to everyone, whether it was the director of a prestigious festival, or the director’s PA who brought him a coffee. If there were fires underneath, they were visible only to intimates. The contrast with his contemporary Harrison Birtwistle, who quite enjoys being publicly brusque and dismissive, was striking.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Peter Maxwell Davies conducting the Welsh soprano Mary Thomas in a rehearsal of his experimental piece Revelation and Fall in 1968 Photograph: Erich Auerbach/Getty ImagesHe was born into a modest household in Salford, Greater Manchester, to Hilda and Tom Davies. His father was a foreman in an optical instruments factory. Peter soon showed an aptitude for music, and devoured the contents of the Henry Watson music library, picking out complicated scores at the piano. He was also composing little pieces by the dozen.At Leigh boys’ grammar school, his determination to study music met with implacable opposition. In later life, he liked to tell the story of how the headteacher forbade him to take music A-level, so he entered the exam privately, and astonished the examiners by his ability to play from memory long passages from Beethoven’s symphonies. Maxwell Davies seemed to get a grim pleasure from recounting the punchline, of how the headmaster later boasted of the young Maxwell Davies’s success in a school assembly. “That taught me a lot about human nature,” he said.In 1953 he enrolled for a joint course at Manchester University and the Royal Manchester College of Music (now the Royal Northern College of Music). He soon became impatient with the narrow-mindedness of his composition professor, for whom anything later than Delius was suspect.Fortunately he soon fell in with a group of kindred spirits, including the composers Alexander Goehr and Harrison Birtwistle, the pianist John Ogdon and the trumpeter (and later conductor) Elgar Howarth. This group was later known as the “Manchester school”, though there was never any sense of sharing a joint creative manifesto, and the members soon went their separate ways. They shared a passion for anything off the curriculum: medieval and renaissance music, Indian classical music (on which Maxwell Davies wrote his thesis) and, above all, the modernist pioneers of music, from Arnold Schoenberg, Anton Webern and Igor Stravinsky right up to the latest European avant-gardists such as Luigi Nono and Karlheinz Stockhausen.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Peter Maxwell Davies, right, with Simon Rattle in the early 1980s. Photograph: Ian Tyas/Getty ImagesAll this was a bewildering onslaught for the boy who had embraced the great classics of western music, but not yet strayed beyond them. For the first, and perhaps only, time in his life, he was uncertain of his direction. The other members of the group recall Maxwell Davies’s early efforts at composition as being in an almost Vaughan Williams-like pastoral idiom. But after it was pointed out that this was tame stuff and lacked intellectual rigour, he went straight back to his desk and, with astonishing speed, produced his Opus 1 – a trumpet sonata for Howarth and Ogdon. It was in a brand new, hard-edged, angular style, every note underpinned with a severe note-to-note logic closely modelled on Schoenberg’s so-called “12-note” method.It seemed unlikely that such a startling and seemingly wilful change of direction would last. Yet in those few weeks, Maxwell Davies acquired the creative mindset he would retain until the end. It was based on the unshakable conviction that to be valid, musical works needed a source of authority that was shored up by constructivist rigour, and therefore beyond style. Though he never said as much, Maxwell Davies seemed to believe that if the constructive basis of a piece of music was strict enough, comprehension on the part of the listener would be guaranteed.This seemed to place Maxwell Davies firmly alongside European avant-gardists such as Boulez. But from the beginning, Maxwell Davies’s brand of rationality was profoundly different. He never abandoned a sense that musical line, and the combination of lines into counterpoint, was at the root of music. This is why the characteristic Maxwell Davies “sound” is very distant from the pointilliste, splintered musical world of the European avant-gardists. It is a tensile, highly dissonant combination of lines, etched in primary colours, with absolutely no harmonic or colouristic padding to ingratiate the listener. At its best, the sound embodies a keen-edged and tragic lucidity, a high seriousness as much ethical as musical.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Peter Maxwell Davies, with Judith Weir, the new Master of the Queen’s Music, during a private audience with the Queen in July 2014. Photograph: Rex/ShutterstockThat sound was already evident in the works he wrote during the two years after leaving Manchester in 1956, part of which time he spent in Rome, studying with Goffredo Petrassi. From 1959 to 1962 he was a music teacher at Cirencester grammar school, involving all the pupils in the school in performances of challenging music, some of which he wrote himself (this seems commonplace now, but at a time when children were supposed to listen and not be heard, it was revolutionary). In the evenings – and sometimes all night – he was composing a series of remarkable pieces that earned him a reputation as Britain’s angry young man of modern music.Their titles – St Michael Sonata, Prolation, O Magnum Mysterium – give a clue to the source of this constructivist rigour: the great civilisation of medieval and Renaissance Europe. Maxwell Davies loved plainsong, often weaving plainsong melodies into his music, and he regarded the perfect rationalism of sacred counterpoint as a model for his own style. He was attracted to system builders, and his favourite thinker was Aquinas – a surprising choice for a man who was vehemently atheist and often expressed his hatred for religion.The inner tension this engendered – coupled with others, not least his as-yet unconfessed homosexuality – can be glimpsed in photographs of the intense, thin-lipped slender young man with piercing blue eyes and tousled hair. One can feel it pushing through the cracks of his great opera Taverner, started in Cirencester and completed at Princeton University, New Jersey, where Maxwell Davies had a scholarship (1962-64); its premiere came at Covent Garden in 1972. The tale of a composer who turns his back on his calling to become an anti-Catholic secret agent for Thomas Cromwell called forth some of Maxwell Davies’s most burningly intense music. Hints of parody and an expressionist violence are only just held in check by the tough contrapuntal fabric.In his works composed from the mid-1960s to the early 70s, the emotional violence breaks out unconstrained. The works of this period include Revelation and Fall (1966), in which a nun in blood-red costume and a megaphone shrieks expressionist poems of Georg Trakl, the Missa super l’Homme Armé (1968), a parody of a Latin Mass, and above all Eight Songs for a Mad King (1969). This work, which dramatises the madness of King George III in a series of harrowing “songs”, could well be the most naked revelation of emotional and mental distress in all classical music. The distraught king is trapped in a “cage” made of the musicians themselves, and gibbers his agony, sometimes in a cruel parody of a well-known style (Handel’s Comfort Ye is invoked and mocked at one point).The false consolations of religion were a common target of Maxwell Davies’s rage. In his vast orchestral canvas St Thomas Wake (1968) his target is the foxtrot, which appears grotesquely parodied alongside plainchant and counterpoint, ordered with the help of “magic squares” (assemblages of numbers whose rows and columns and long diagonals yield the same total). The combination caused one of the few real postwar musical scandals, at its German premiere. But by then a reaction was setting in – as it had to, if Maxwell Davies were to hang on to his sanity.From 1971 he began to spend more time in Orkney, and the sense of rootedness in an ancient and stark landscape soon began to bear fruit in his music. In From Stone to Thorn (1971), for mezzo-soprano and instruments, one hears a new meditativeness, and a spaciousness that is surely a response to the wide-open landscape of his adopted home. This was the first of many pieces inspired by the poetry of the Orcadian writer George Mackay Brown, with whom Maxwell Davies later collaborated on his opera The Martydom of St Magnus (1976), which was premiered in 1977 in Kirkwall CathedralThe recreation of ancient events that took place near the very same spot symbolised Maxwell Davies’s profound feeling of connection to his new home.The Martydom of St Magnus was the centrepiece of the first St Magnus festival, created by Maxwell Davies, Mackay Brown and a few allies in the teeth of local opposition. Maxwell Davies remained the festival’s artistic director until 1986 and composed pieces for it regularly, reviving an interest in educational music that had lain dormant in his output since the 50s. The new sense of security allowed him to finally “come out”, in an interview in 1978 in Gay News.But the change was not all in the direction of island ruggedness and plain speaking, and in any case these “Orcadian” pieces still had a high level of dissonance, and had not entirely expunged traces of his 60s expressionist period. One change no one could have predicted is that from the 80s onwards, Maxwell Davies acquired a “light music” manner, reflected in such pieces as Farewell to Stromness (1980) and Mavis in Las Vegas (1997), the latter inspired by a hotel receptionist’s mishearing of his distinguished English guest’s name as “Mavis”.More significant was a move towards the high ground of the classical tradition, which he had previously avoided as being too local and style-bound. His First Symphony, completed in 1976 and premiered by Simon Rattle in 1978 was an early sign of this move, with its avowed debt to Sibelius’s Fifth Symphony. But its compellingly odd, slightly awkward sound-world, with chime-bars and vibraphone pressed into service as bearers of linear counterpoint, was entirely his own. From the Third Symphony (1985) onwards, the tuned percussion fades away and the palette becomes much more classical.The move towards a historically based classicism was validated – in the composer’s mind at least – by a new interest in an expanded form of tonality, with pieces increasingly focused on privileged notes or modes or motifs, and sometimes all of these at once. In the Third Symphony, massively impressive and one of the key works of the decade, these are combined with the permutational devices and the “magic squares” of his earlier music. This hybrid logic is projected on to an ingenious recreation of old forms such as the sonata. The unifying D minor tonality Maxwell Davies claims for his symphony is not always evident to the listener, but the brooding intense rhetoric is powerful nonetheless.Sibelius’s presence can often be felt behind Maxwell Davies’s more serious utterances, but the athletic wit of Haydn became increasingly important. Like an old-fashioned kapellmeister, Maxwell Davies now thought of his works in sets. Between 1987 and 1994, he composed 10 Strathclyde Concertos, each one written for the principal players of the Scottish Chamber Orchestra, and between 2002 and 2007 there appeared the 10 Naxos Quartets, commissioned by the Naxos recording company.Meanwhile Maxwell Davies had transformed himself from young rebel into a pillar of the community, both locally and in the wider world. He had fruitful conducting relationships with the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra and with the Scottish Chamber Orchestra. In 2004 he was appointed Master of the Queen’s Music, a role he embraced for a decade with gusto, and with none of the discomfort that, say, Andrew Motion displayed during his tenure as Poet Laureate.He gave fierce lectures decrying the dismemberment of music libraries (especially his beloved Henry Watson music library in Manchester), and the decline of Latin and classical music provision in schools. He advised the Queen to create an annual Queen’s medal for music, to which she assented.He had to endure one bitter blow, which was the disappearance of nearly £500,000 from his accounts. In 2009, his manager, Michael Arnold, was jailed for 18 months for false accounting. It is a measure of Maxwell Davies’s unworldliness that he failed to notice anything amiss until an ATM refused his request for cash. For several weeks he was unable to compose, an almost unprecedented event in his fiercely disciplined life. Fortunately he soon recovered his energies, thanks to the support of his long-term partner, Colin Parkinson, with whom he shared a house on the less arduous Orkney island of Sanday, until their relationship broke up in 2012.In these later years there was no let-up in Maxwell Davies’s productivity. He was one of the most driven and hard-working composers of all time, with an output that easily exceeds the work-lists of Stravinsky and Schoenberg combined. His second opera, The Doctor of Myddfai (1995) was written in six weeks, during which Maxwell Davies worked 16 hours a day, pausing only to sleep or cook a quick bowl of pasta (the love of Italian food he had acquired in his Rome days was his one concession to human frailty). It was premiered by Welsh National Opera the following year.This amazing productivity is actually an obstacle to the survival of his music. It is hard to know where to start, and plunging in at random may lead to one of the many grey patches in his music, particularly in the later works such as the Strathclyde concertos. But the expressionist works of the 60s seem more and more to be genuine masterpieces. Unlike the other shocking things of that era such as Ken Russell’s 1971 film The Devils (for which Maxwell Davies wrote the music), they have not dated.Maxwell Davies himself thought that the 50s were his best period, but the general consensus is that beyond the oft-performed expressionist scores, his really great work is Taverner, which has not been seen since its inaugural production. All these works dramatise deep tensions, between rationality and instinct, and between institutional authority – with its realpolitik and moral equivocation – and the unclouded vision of the lonely creator. In their disturbing ability to reveal dark psychic conflicts, they might remind us of another English composer, to whom Maxwell Davies in every other way seems poles apart: Benjamin Britten.Maxwell Davies was knighted in 1987, and made a Companion of Honour in 2014. His children’s opera The Hogboon will be premiered in June.• Peter Maxwell Davies, composer, born 8 September 1934; died 14 March 2016