There are several ways to be a father, and biology is only a part of it. With the immortal words “I bet you wish you had never met me”, my own birth father disappeared as soon as my mother told him she was pregnant. Into that man-sized breach stepped Ralph.Ralph had just married my mother’s foster sister (my mother was fostered from babyhood), and he was a remarkable old man who offered Mum and me a home under their tiny roof till we could get a council place.As we then found ourselves stuck on the waiting list for a decade, my formative years were very happily spent with Uncle and Auntie as they helped to bring me up while my mother was at work. When we finally got allocated a council flat a few miles up the road, I hated the thought of having to move out and wept buckets.When we first went to live with him in 1955, Uncle was 70. His wife Ethel, or Auntie, wasn’t a lot younger at 55; and Mum was 45, which was considered elderly for the first-time mother of a five-year old in those days. So it was hardly the most conventional family unit in the 1950s; yet it worked.There was a rumour in the family that Auntie had only agreed to make a late first marriage in her 50s and move to the other side of London on condition that she could bring my mother and me along, too; she had retired early from work to help Mum look after me from babyhood.Yet Uncle fulfilled his side of the bargain so wholeheartedly that I came to realise the arrangement was as important to him as it obviously was to us. I was the daughter he had never had; he had two grownup sons by his late first wife and two adored grandsons whom he didn’t see nearly as often as he would have liked.Uncle was a one-off. He combined socialism with spiritualism, telling me that he would come back to visit me after he died to prove there’s an afterlife. I’m still waiting; I kept his old-fashioned gentleman’s wardrobe for years in the hope he would step out of it, Narnia-like, one day.Before working as a factory supervisor and a council plumber, he had been a cook in the British army and even served abroad. So he did all the cooking and food shopping in our house, while Auntie did the housework and gardening. It’s impossible to over-emphasise how unusual such a non-gendered division of household labour was in those days, but then Uncle was astonishingly ahead of his time in so many ways – especially in his enlightened attitude to women.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ralph and Ethel, front left and centre. Photograph: Courtesy Maureen PatonHe had been very close to his mother, which usually bodes well for a man’s future relationships with women; and he brought up his sons as a single father after his first wife died of cancer. It was he who provided me with a role model of what a man should be.There must be many other such wonderful men out there who have made all the difference to a fatherless child’s life. Yet, although Uncle was a kind man, there was more to it than doing his moral duty. It was only years later that it dawned on me he wasn’t just being incredibly altruistic in taking another man’s unwanted/abandoned child to London art galleries, museums and the local public library – which he called “the working classes’ university”. I realised that I had fulfilled the vital role of companion/listener on this lifelong autodidact’s self-improving trips, because his wife showed no interest in the wider world beyond family, friends and her beloved Baptist church.Don’t get me wrong: they were a very solid couple, totally devoted to each other. But Auntie’s increasing deafness didn’t make her the ideal travelling companion. Apart from an unfulfilled yearning to go to what she called the “holy land”, she had no particular desire to investigate different cultures – even in exhibitions.And so, from the age of five, I became Uncle’s escort as much as he was mine, as we travelled round London to see the sights. This included splendid Rubens nudes at the National Gallery as well as dinosaurs at the Natural History Museum and steam pumps at the Science Museum – all sorts. Auntie would have had a fit if she had known about the nudes. Back at home, I would leaf through Uncle’s books on travel, science, history, art and politics; apart from Dickens, he wasn’t a great fiction man. Facts mattered to him much more. The Labour posters would always go up in our windows at every election; and Uncle, a great admirer of the suffragettes, would talk to me about the men and women who had fought for people’s rights. It all sounded very exciting and inspiring to me.He and his younger sister Nelly had been born in dire poverty in a London slum: their father was a mad inventor who drank himself to death, hence Uncle’s lifelong teetotalism. As Auntie had signed the pledge as a Baptist teenager not to drink alcohol, they were a well-matched, clean-living couple.They didn’t even drink at my degree-day ceremony, which a wobbly-legged Uncle insisted in attending on crutches – you couldn’t keep him away. He died three years later in full possession of his considerable marbles at the age of nearly 91, by which time I was almost expecting this indelible influence on my life to live forever.I should add a postscript about my birth father, whom I tracked down nine months after his death. Which was perhaps for the best, because, as my husband pointed out, what was there to say to him beyond the obvious “how could you?” From my cousin Josie, I discovered that he could have dearly done with a daughter in his old age. When Josie, a nun-midwife who had worked abroad for years, was finally posted back to London for good by her Order, she realised that she had an uncle still living in Birmingham in an expatriate community of elderly Irishmen with no family around him. As he had no one else to look out for him, she began to visit him regularly in what turned out to be the last few years of his life. It seems the old man was so grateful to see his niece that he would always escort her back to the bus-stop to say a long goodbye.It was Uncle who got all the benefit of being a father to a daughter, while my birth father got none. But, as someone once remarked about runaway fathers: “They never think ahead to their old age when they do a bunk, do they?” Never in a million years would Uncle have left a woman in the lurch. In return, he won a child’s lifelong loyalty. It was a pretty good bargain.