What food hygiene rating does a restaurant need before you would consider eating there? Five out of five? Four? One? Sure, we love to laugh at stories of posh hotels scoring a mere two out of five for food hygiene, as was the case with Chiltern Firehouse in 2014, when restaurant staff lacked hot water to wash their hands before serving the likes of Lindsay Lohan, but are our kitchens at home any better? Would an environmental health inspector refuse to eat your dinner quicker than you could say “five-second rule”? I called the London borough of Southwark’s food safety team and offered to cook them lunch.The plan“Sounds very nice,” smiles Rod Blessitt, the council’s principal environmental health officer, as he steps into my kitchen and I read my menu: a starter of chorizo with onion, cherry tomato and rocket salad, followed by poached chicken in honey-and-orange sauce with mint-flecked rice and carrots. I feel briefly confident. Besides, even if I go wrong, it’s just food poisoning; it isn’t going to kill us. “Actually, food poisoning can be lethal,” says Blessitt. “Death rates from Listeria are on the rise. E coli 0157 can kill you through kidney failure and there’s something like Clostridium botulinum that will knock out your immune system: that’s a definite killer in a very nasty way.”IngredientsBefore Blessitt turned up, I was pretty confident I knew how to store food safely. Within minutes of his arrival, not so much. “OK, that cheese is at 5.4C, very good,” he mutters, whipping out an infrared thermometer and training a little red dot across the contents of my fridge.“Uh-oh, what’s this?” he chuckles, pulling out an open package of ham sitting atop a packet of chicken. “That’s not a good idea. You don’t want bacteria from the chicken getting into the open ham – especially as you’re not going to cook that before eating it.” I point out this is unlikely, given the chicken is sealed. “Sorry,” says Blessitt. “I don’t want to scare you, but there has been research that says there’s often Campylobacter on the outside of the packet.” The chicken is quickly moved.The prepWhile Blessitt mentally scores my food safety, I score my chicken breasts with a knife. Then I fastidiously clean up to keep things hygienic. “Wait! What are you doing?” says Blessitt as I start washing up my chickeny prep board. “Please tell me you wouldn’t normally wash that board and use it again straight away.” I would. It’s bacteria-free, now that I’ve washed it. “It isn’t, I’m afraid,” says Blessitt. “Unless you’re using water so hot it’s taking the skin off your hands, or a special bacteria-killing sanitiser, there might still be Campylobacter on there. If it’s properly dried, they’ll struggle to thrive, but not if it’s wet. I’d be marking you down pretty seriously if we were in a restaurant now.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The raw chicken in contact with the ham? I’d really knock down a commercial kitchen for that,’ says Rod Blessitt. Photograph: Graeme Robertson for the GuardianThe cookingAfter a brief false alarm when Blessitt is concerned that I’m going to chop salad without washing chicken juice from my fingers (“Be careful what you’re doing with your hands! You’re contaminated!”), pans go on the hob. Cooking my meal goes surprisingly smoothly. Blessitt doesn’t even object when I announce that I won’t be washing the carrots, since I’m peeling off the dirty skin (“Nope, fair enough: there’s an E coli danger in the soil, but that’s on the outside; you’ve removed it by peeling”). He’s less happy when I make him hold a plastic bag as I peel into it. “You just dropped that carrot in the bag!” Looks like I’ll be washing one carrot after all.We’re stuffing ourselves with battery chicken. And it’s stuffing the souls of the workers, too The eatingAfter 10 minutes, my simple meal is done. Carrots are boiled. Rice is boiled. Chicken is boiled. (I said it was a simple meal.) Blessitt declares it something he would “be happy to eat” and tucks in. Even better, he seems to be enjoying it. “You got a lot of things right,” Blessitt says. “Your fridge was at a good temperature and all the food was in use-by date.” I grin, satisfied with a job well done. “But the raw chicken in contact with the ham? I’d really knock down a commercial kitchen for that. And not sanitising your chopping boards? I’d murder you for that if you were a business.” Ah. I’m not getting five stars for hygiene, then? “It’s not really a valid comparison,” he says. “But you would probably get two out of five: some improvement necessary.” There you have it. My home kitchen: as hygienic as Chiltern Firehouse circa 2014.Five food myths: our food inspector speaksWash chicken before cooking“You shouldn’t. You really shouldn’t. First, it doesn’t do anything, since the Campylobacter is actually inside the chicken, too, not just on the outside. Also, in the washing process, you’ll potentially spray Campylobacter all around your kitchen.”You can smell when food is off“Nonsense. Absolute nonsense. Food-poisoning organisms don’t in any way affect the quality of food. In fact, if it absolutely stinks, it’s unlikely to have any food-poisoning organisms in it. Food-poisoning bacteria aren’t good competitors, and the kind of bacteria that cause the smell would tend to knock out your Campylobacters and your E coli.”As long as it’s before the use-by date, your food is fine“The date on the packet ceases to be relevant as soon as the packet is opened. That date only refers to how long the food will last if the seal hasn’t been broken. It’s the bit that says: ‘Once open, use within two days’ – that’s the bit that matters.”Serious food poisoning comes on fast“Environmental health departments are continuously getting complaints: ‘Oh, I had a chicken chow mein and half an hour later I was vomiting.’ It won’t be the chow mein. Go back six hours, eight hours, even the previous day. Campylobacter takes two to five days before you even start showing symptoms. A lot of them are 24 to 48 hours. Even the quicker ones take at least 12 hours. It’s not an instant reaction.”The worry about reheating rice is an old wives’ tale“Actually, it’s not. There are bacteria in rice, the spores of which can be heat-resistant. They will survive the boiling process, which means you have to be quite careful about the cooling-down process: unless you get your leftovers into the fridge 90 minutes after cooking, they’ll get warm enough for the spores to turn back into the actual food-poisoning bacteria. This means you need to really, really reheat the rice, otherwise it can make you ill.”