Jake and Dinos ChapmanHow was this new work for the Summer Exhibition created? Imagine this humble scene – of Mummy and Daddy and Daughter seated at breakfast. A faint scratching at the kitchen door, then the family cat tiptoes indoors, swirling around Mummy’s feet. She bends to stroke the arching animal, but no sooner recoils when a strange sound curdles from its snarling maw … with one or two convulsions, and one almighty dilation, the wonderful New Arrival appears on the kitchen lino in all its glory.We live in different cities now, London and LA, but we practise our work in the same way as we always have, just with economy class in between. Our working relationship hasn’t changed in those two decades: it’s the same itch, different scratch. An aggregate of ideas assembled around a core of perpetual reward. A cascade of imperfect solutions to a constant of problems – the procession of the damned colliding with the return of the repressed. We see ourselves as two half artists and the two things that drive us to keep making art are aesthetic necrosis and felt tips. We still hate the process of making art but like the work we create, and we take other people’s laughter at our work very seriously – to quote Lou Reed, “Our bullshit is worth other people’s diamonds.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The New Arrival (2016) by Jake and Dinos Chapman. Photograph: George Darrell/White CubeAs for the reasons we fuse horror and humour in our art, well it would be an insult to the homicidal impulses of the world to paint puppies or flowers. Our works are aggressive but sweetly tempered.And we see nothing wrong with the way people document the world today, through the sheen of camera filters. In fact, boarded, seductive, filtered images capture reality very well – we don’t believe in disturbing people from their dogmatic slumber.The world may be shitty, but shitty isn’t disappointing. It is as the poet Heinrich Heine writes: “if God wants to make my happiness complete, he will grant me the joy of seeing six or seven of my enemies hanging from those trees. Before their death I shall, moved in my heart, forgive them all the wrong they did me in their lifetime. One must, it is true, forgive one’s enemies – but not before they have been hanged.”And what next? We are looking for a publisher for our written memoirs: Burning Bridges – Or How I Got to Be Where I Am By Not Looking Back.Jane and Louise Wilson      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Our differences? Who gives a shit’ ... Jane and Louise Wilson.Working together as twin sisters, there has never been any great game plan, it’s always just been enjoyable. Well perhaps enjoyable is the wrong word: it’s just something we’ve both always felt invested in and wanted to continue. Our collaboration feels liberating somehow, and the conversations we have together are unlike the conversations we have with anyone else.We certainly never had a twin manifesto signed in blood or anything like that – though maybe it would be quite funny to do that now. For a long time our lives were interchangeable and we lived in so much chaos. We learned to live happily that way, and working together doesn’t feel like an enforcement of authorship and ideas. It’s simply a case of asking, “How are we going to excite each other?”We can’t describe our dynamic, and thank God, because if we could it would probably be very dreary. That’s trust, I guess, and there’s a freedom in that. We are definitely two different artists who come together – though of course we were once just one egg. And our differences? Who gives a shit.The works we have chosen for the Summer Exhibition are all part of a series of photographs that we took during a visit to the Chernobyl site in 2010, and in particular the workers’ town of Pripyat, which 30 years after the disaster resembles a preserved ruin. We had been invited for a very different project, to make a film, but somehow it didn’t feel right to pan a moving camera over these scenes. The smallest details need to be captured with a still photo.We were keen to document the areas that would have been cultural and social sites, such as the swimming pool, the theatre, the cinema, the cultural palace, the hotel and the schoolrooms. We purposefully made sure that all signs of humanity – clothes, teddy bears, a single shoe – were not captured in any of the pictures we took because it instantly hints at sentiment and becomes an easy way into the pictures. We wanted to make these images tougher.But we also wanted to intervene and interrupt that pure voyeurism, and so we have placed a wooden yardstick in each picture. It’s a simple object but also has a forensic quality, offering a reminder of how Chernobyl has been constantly photographed and measured over the years.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Atomgrad, Nature Abhors a Vacuum III (2010) by Jane and Louise WilsonI would say we were most interested in capturing not beauty but the materiality of that place- the surface, the texture, the tangibility of a place that was destroyed by something invisible.We were also drawn to the dark tourism that Chernobyl represents. That impulse to return to places of disaster and trauma is something that has gone on for centuries – a sort of ruin lust. Here we witnessed this happening all the time, people taking day trips over from Kiev to visit the site of the nuclear explosion, even though it is a threat we all still live with. We see Chernobyl as a relic of history but in fact we are re-entering headlong into another cold war era – this project is therefore as much about the future as the past.There is something significant about two female artists infiltrating these male spaces – be they Chernobyl or the US military site Greenham Common, which we entered in 1999 – with our imperial measures. The measure represents man, antiquity and empire but is an object that is outdated and useless.I think we are interested in what we are excluded from and we use our art to unpick and unpack the meanings of these spaces that previously we would never have been allowed near. Someone described it as a steely feminism and we are happy with that. Long may that reign.EVA & ADELE      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We argue a lot with each other’ ... EVA & ADELE.I doubt we would have managed on a human level to stay together as a couple, but as artists we’ve managed it. We’ve mastered the process of making art together, and have built on our love through the art, and need to continue to build on that every day. As people, we might have been too weak, but as artists – with art as our absolute focus – we’ve succeeded.We share everything, more or less, and we manage it by rising above things that might annoy other people and treating each other in a respectful way. We see everything – from preparing the food, to shopping, to cleaning the studio – as part of our art. Sometimes making a decent salad can have the same value as producing a good drawing.We spend around three hours every morning getting ready. First we shave, then, while our skin is calming down, we have breakfast, then we put on our makeup, then we get dressed. Putting on our makeup is quite a meditative process – the foundation on the face and shaven heads – like being gentle to yourself. It’s all part of our artwork.We argue a lot with each other. Put it like this, we have developed a very sophisticated way of discussing things in a heated way. We became one artist after originally being two individual artists and we say we both work for EVA & ADELE. We invented her and we both work for her. We’re both quite strong characters and we have our own very individual ideas often as to how things should be.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Transformer-Performer Double-Act VIII by Eva and Adele (2015).We produced our first work together in 1989 when we took off in our camping van and drove to Greece in search of our own Hermaphrodite. We are Berliners, but we were driving round Greek villages, filming and getting to know each other, when the Berlin Wall came down. Believe it or not, we were so engrossed in our project and each other we managed to miss that event of world-shattering importance. It wasn’t until two weeks later, in Venice, that we found out what had happened.We were never inspired by the idea of being an artist “couple”, not least because our plan from the start was to work as one artist, having met at a time when we were both ready to head for new shores together and to live our transexuality in a much more deliberate way. But even if we had been looking for a couple on which to model ourselves, the examples in art history are quite poor. Most couples were in a relationship but the woman was almost always disadvantaged – Auguste Rodin and Camille Claudel are a prime example. Unfortunately, even today you often still see this.From the start, after we set up our first studio in Berlin’s main gay district, people automatically referred to us as Gilbert and George. It was like, “Aha, a same sex artist couple … ” It was naive, but they couldn’t cope with us. When Gilbert and George walk through a park they’re just two men who perhaps stand out a little, but when we do that, obviously a lot of heads turn because of our appearance and our obvious transexuality. We attract a lot of wide-ranging questions.In our wills we have determined that after our deaths an EVA & ADELE foundation will be established to protect our work – all our drawings, paintings and films – which will also continue to research issues such as transexuality and transgender.Pierre et Gilles       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It started as a love story and work came afterwards’ ... a detail from Pierre et Gilles’ self portrait, 40 ans (2016)Pierre: We met in September 1976 at the opening of a boutique.Gilles: We knew of each other but we had never met.Pierre: We were a bit timid, but we had a few drinks and we left on my scooter and went back to my flat. We’ve been together ever since.Gilles: It was a coup de foudre. It started as a love story and work came afterwards.Pierre: I was a photographer …Gilles: … and I was a painter.Pierre: The first work we did was Grimaces. I had taken some photographs and we were disappointed with the colour.Gilles: So I said, ‘Why don’t we paint it to make it more alive.’Pierre: Since then we have only worked together.Gilles: We were young and very influenced by the pop movement with its strong lively colours: Andy Warhol, cinema images, celebrities were our references as well as the imaginary, mystical and religious. We were both raised as Catholics and like the mysticism of religion.Pierre: In 1983 we had our first gallery exhibition. Our Naufrage series came out of the Aids crisis.Gilles: That was a terrible time. People were disappearing, boys of 18 were dying.Pierre: We work from Paris, in an old factory where they used to produce coffee makers. There was nothing when we got here. We lived in rubble for years.Gilles: Now there are a lot of things in it. We have too many things.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Le Hameau de la Reine by Pierre et Gilles (2016). Photograph: Jean-Philippe HumbertPierre: The work for the London exhibition is Marie-Antoinette. We were contacted by Zahia [Dehar, model and fashion muse]. She wanted to meet us and said she loved our work. She arrived and we fell under her charm.Gilles: She was very sensitive but knew what she wanted. We did Eve with her first, but she really wanted to be Marie Antoinette. She felt a connection with this figure who liked animals and the countryside and was a queen.Pierre: She wanted a bucolic, country look.Gilles: She has an incredible beauty and that inspired us. We suggested four works to the Royal Academy and they chose this one. It’s a good choice. There’s an English touch to it.Pierre: Gilles does the décor and I take the photographs. Afterwards, we choose the images together ...Gilles: ... then I do the painting.Pierre: I am not behind him all the time as he paints but …Gilles: … he has his opinions. Sometimes we disagree and get a bit cross, but we always end up agreeing. It’s not bad to argue, you have to have some fun in life.Pierre: Our paintings seem simple but they are quite complicated …Gilles: … the decor takes time and we build everything ourselves, even the picture frames. When it’s finished, I like to leave it a week and look at it with fresh eyes to see if it needs more work.Pierre: We exhibit and sell our works now, but at the beginning we didn’t want to let them go …Gilles: … it was hard …Pierre: ... they reflect our Pierre and Gilles world …• As told to Hannah Ellis-Petersen, Kate Connolly and Kim Willsher. The Summer Exhibition takes place at the Royal Academy, London W1J, from 13 June to 21 August.