We are devasted to report that the amazing Louise Rennison, known as Lou to her friends, has died at the age of 63. One of the funniest, if not THE funniest, teen writers in the world, she first wowed us with her ground-breaking Angus, Thongs and Full Frontal Snogging, which was published back in 1999. It was just the first of 10 stories about Georgia Nicolson, who was surely based on Louise’s wild and wonderful self. The first two books in the series were adapted into a film Angus, Thongs and Perfect Snogging (read this to find out about that revised title).Louise was crowned Queen of Teen in 2008, and she won the Roald Dahl funny prize in 2010 with Withering Tights, the tale of Georgia Nicolson’s gawky younger cousin Tallulah Casey, beating David Walliams’s Mr Stink, illustrated by Quentin Blake, to the title.One thing is for sure, the world is a less glittering place without Louise Rennison, and we will miss her terribly. Here are some of our favourite quotes from the books she gave us: He who laughs last laughs the laughiest.― Dancing in My Nuddy-Pants (book four in the Confessions of Georgia Nicolson series) “He says we should take it easy and that maybe he overreacted a bit.”Dave said, “A bit? That’s like Hitler saying, ‘Oooh, I just meant to go for a little walk, but then I accidentally invaded Poland.” ― Are These My Basoomas I See Before Me? (the 10th and final Confessions of Georgia Nicolson story) My inspiration: Pamela Butchart on Louise Rennison  I am soooo excited, I am over-excited. I’m hysterical, I may have to slap my own face in a minute at this rate. ― Withering Tights (the first book in Louise’s series about the misadventures of Tallulah Casey, Georgia Nicolson’s younger cousin) Honestly, what planet do these people live on? And why isn’t it farther away? ― It’s OK, I’m Wearing Really Big Knickers (published as On the Bright Side, I’m Now the Girlfriend of a Sex God in the US where people don’t wear knickers as people in the UK wear knickers, book two in the Georgia Nicolson series). I am going to become a writer for Cosmo - you don’t have to make any sense at all. Or maybe I’ll be a bloke, they don’t have to make sense either.― Angus, Thongs and Full Frontal Snogging As she left my room I knew I should shut up. But you know when you should shut up because you really should just shut up… but you keep on and on anyway? Well, I had that. ― Angus, Thongs and Full-Frontal SnoggingKnickers? Snogging? Can we really transport humour across the pond?  I can already feel myself getting fed up with boys and I haven’t had anything to do with them yet ― Angus, Thongs and Full-Frontal Snogging He had everything a dream boy should have. Back, front, sides, Everything. A head. ― Withering Tights  I will not have him in my brain; there is no room for anyone else in the cakeshop of agony. It’s crowded enough in there already. ― Startled by His Furry Shorts (book seven in the Georgia Nicholson series)There are far too many hilarious quotes to share from Louise Rennison’s books. We could easily give you 100 more. A great lady who will be much missed. Thank you Louise Rennison. There’s an outpouring of quotes and tributes for Louise Rennison on Twitter @GdnChildrensBks. We are sharing just a few on this page but you can find more here. SF Said (@whatSFSaid)"You make me laugh like a loon on loon tablets!” That's my fave Louise Rennison quote & it's exactly how I felt about her.@GdnChildrensBksFebruary 29, 2016John Green (@johngreen)Very sad to hear that the great YA writer Louise Rennison has died. https://t.co/EY3kTOI1e9February 29, 2016Patrick Ness (@Patrick_Ness)Shocked at the death of Louise Rennison. Kids just laugh and laugh and laugh at her books, which is the best sort of miracle. RIP.February 29, 2016Philip Pullman (@PhilipPullman)I'm shocked and saddened to hear of the death of Louise Rennison, far too young.February 29, 2016Louise Rennison made me the woman I am today | Rhiannon Lucy Cosslett phil earle (@philearle)Aside from the books themselves, this is my happiest memory of Louise Rennison. pic.twitter.com/CnosaZnbbPFebruary 29, 2016Holly Smale (@HolSmale)So, so sad to hear about Louise Rennison. Such a wonderful, talented and funny writer. Love to her family. 💔 pic.twitter.com/OlReUhgfCiFebruary 29, 2016CatherineJohnson (@catwrote)A brilliant woman x https://t.co/W2MThurH4GFebruary 29, 2016Karen McCombie (@KarenMcCombie)Blah... not lovely Louise Rennison! But thank you @GdnChildrensBks, for making me snigger through the snot. https://t.co/IS1ewtERh2February 29, 2016Daniel Hahn (@danielhahn02)@KarenMcCombie @GdnChildrensBks If ever there was a writer who could have pulled off a title like "Sniggering through the Snot", LR was it.February 29, 2016Pamela Butchart (@Pamela_Butchart)"What would I be doing walking the streets at night as a stuffed olive - gate-crashing cocktail parties?" #louiserennison @GdnChildrensBksMarch 1, 2016