My dad, Loren, was a minor-league baseball player – handsome, charming and the life and soul of the party. During the off-season, he played saxophone and clarinet in a jazz band. He was enjoying the life of a carefree bon vivant until my mother, Hazel, a stenographer, told him she was in the family way. Suddenly, the good life, as he knew it, vanished and he got a job as a salesman for the Sunshine Cookie Company. He hated the work, but always had a shine on his shoes and a smile on his face. Years later, when I saw Death of a Salesman, I was depressed for a month. It was Dad’s story.My father was saved by his sense of humour and his customers enjoyed his company. He was more reserved around my brother, Jerry, and me, but we knew he loved us. He just didn’t know how to say the words. My mother was the opposite. She was funny like Dad, but much more talkative. If she had a deficiency, it was absent-mindedness. She once cooked a ham and later found it in my father’s shirt drawer. I am not kidding.When I was 20, I began dating a local girl I had known for years growing up in Danville, Illinois – Margie Willett. We were too broke to get married, but a radio producer offered to pick up the tab and send us on honeymoon if we got hitched on his show. So in 1948 we exchanged our vows in front of a minister and two radio microphones while 15 million people listened!Margie was earthy and artistic, but had no fondness for Hollywood and was shunted aside at showbiz events by people wanting to chat to me. She wore her hair short and eschewed makeup, and we were often mistaken for brother and sister. Once, when I appeared on a magazine cover, Margie snapped up six copies and the cashier asked if she was my mother.Margie miscarried twins, but went on to have four children who turned out to be truly admirable. Margie did the work, but I will take some credit. As the father of four, the grandfather of seven and a great-grandfather four times over, why not?I tried to be a good role model to my children, but I was an alcoholic for 25 years, which inevitably impacted on family life. When I went into therapy, I realised I was repeating my father’s mistakes. He often came home drunk after lengthy road trips and my mother threatened to walk out unless he quit – which he did. When I pledged to quit and entered a rehab clinic, Margie checked in as I checked out. I thought she’d come to pick me up, but it turned out she was hooked on antidepressants. I had no idea. What a pair.Our addictions were symptomatic of deeper problems in our relationship and we were drifting apart. Around this time, I met a former actress, Michelle Triola. She was feisty, smart and, unlike Margie, knew the showbiz world inside out. Margie and I divorced in 1984, and Michelle and I went on to have 35 very happy years together. We talked about marrying, but I could never get her to put a date in the diary.In 2008, Margie died of pancreatic cancer and I lost a part of myself. A year later, Michelle was diagnosed with lung cancer. When she asked if she was going to die, I pretended I didn’t know – the hardest acting I have ever done. After she passed, I realised I had never been without a companion looking out for me.I met makeup artist Arlene Silver, who is 46 years younger, at an awards dinner in 2006. She was startlingly beautiful and I introduced myself. We became firm friends and it just grew from there. My oldest child, Christian, was the only one in the family who had doubts, but after we exchanged our vows in 2012, he said, “Dad, I get it.” We don’t feel the age gap. I’m emotionally immature and Arlene is very wise for her age, so we meet in the middle.• My Lucky Life In and Out of Show Business by Dick Van Dyke is published by John Blake, £8.99.