Organisers of a Muhammad Ali exhibition at London’s O2 say they are hopeful the 74-year-old former heavyweight champion boxer will be able to pay it a visit on what could be his final trip abroad.Details were announced on Tuesday of a six-month exhibition telling the story of Ali’s extraordinary life in and out of the ring.“I know he wants to come and I hope that he does,” said his friend and exhibition co-curator Davis Miller. “I saw him last September and he looked surprisingly good. He had put on about 30 pounds and he looked like Muhammad Ali. He was playful, playing with kids, doing magic tricks and was very alert and joking.”The exhibition follows the success of a similar Elvis Presley show at the same venue. Its collection of memorabilia from Graceland, some of which had left the US for the first time, attracted more than 200,000 visitors.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Davis Miller and Muhammad Ali. Photograph: From the book Approaching Ali by Davis MillerOne of the first things visitors to the Ali show will see is an interactive full-size boxing ring showing his remarkable work ethic and game-changing boxing techniques. There will be never-before-seen video footage, photographs and more than 100 artefacts including medals, champion rings and gloves.Miller is also on the brink of tracking down Ali’s draft card as part of a room that will tell the story of his run-in with the authorities in 1967 when he refused to serve in the US army with the memorable words: “Man, I ain’t got no quarrel with them Vietcong.”Miller said: “We want each and every visitor to come away feeling they have spent time in the company of and become friends with this singular and extraordinary man.“I don’t think anything has been done quite like it. It is not going to be a museum experience, we want it to scowl and bark at people the same way Ali might. We want people to laugh and cry and I hope we can pull it off.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ali and second wife Khalilah Ali. Photograph: From the book Approaching Ali by Davis MillerMiller is the bestselling author of four books on Ali which include The Tao of Muhammad Ali and My Dinner with Ali.He recalled being “a skinny, scrawny, depressed, sad 11-year-old boy in North Carolina whose mother had just died”, when he first saw Ali on a small black and white television.Ali was confidently declaring “I’m young, I’m handsome, I’m fast, I’m pretty, I can’t possibly be beat” before his fight with Sonny Liston and the young Miller was hooked. “It lit me up ... I felt like the glory train had passed through me.”  Muhammad Ali’s three times world champion ring from 1978. Photograph: From the book Approaching Ali by Davis MillerWhen Miller was 16 he was 4ft 10ins, weighed 63 pounds and his high school nickname was “foetus” but that did not stop him trying to emulate his hero: “Internally, I was already trying to be Ali. I learned to do a horrible imitation of him, I could dance clockwise and counter-clockwise and throw punches which looked similar, although they would have been entirely ineffective.”To Miller and millions of others, Ali was a hero, “a source of solace in a bleak life”.Among the exhibits will be school report cards from Ali’s childhood in Louisville, Kentucky, torches and participation medals from the 1960 Rome Olympics where Ali, under his birth name Cassius Clay, won gold in the light heavyweight class, and the gold boxing gloves, signed by Ali, given to Presley in 1973. Miller said assembling the artefacts had been tricky because Ali gave so much of his personal stuff away.Ali was diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease in 1984 and his health has been up and down in recent years but Miller said Ali really wanted to come – particularly because of his love of the UK.“That is the reason he intends to come. If this exhibition was happening in Sydney or Vancouver or Berlin or Montreal or Paris, I don’t think Ali, with his health, would even consider coming.”Ali’s wife Lonnie say they were “very excited” to be “part of a project that will connect Muhammad with a whole new generation of fans. The O2 has done an incredible job working with the Muhammad Ali Center to share Muhammad’s legacy and ideals with audiences around the world.”• I Am the Greatest: Muhammad Ali at the O2, 4 March-31 August.