I have been impersonating Dean Martin and Bobby Darin for nearly 20 years. About a decade ago, an agent in LA said to me: “You could pull off Donald Trump.” The Apprentice had taken off, so I invested time and money to recreate The Donald, to get his vocals, his look, his persona. I registered a domain name, donaldtrumpone.com; I spent thousands of dollars on expensive wigs – I had to try a few, at $1,500 a piece; and I bought suits and ties. I watched hours of footage, trying to match his mannerisms and inflections.In the past 18 months, I think I’ve nailed him. I’ve been going to his rallies – he’s rigid, almost regal, in the way he holds himself. I’ve grown out my hair and now I just wear a small piece, which doesn’t really look like a wig. It’s all Donald’s own hair; he’s very bald on the top, so he combs it over. His New York accent is pretty easy, but I’ve honed and refined it now. Donald is four years older than me; I think I look like his younger, better-looking brother.The most important thing is to get into his mindset. I’m a self-employed businessman, too, so it’s easy for me to understand his emotions, his attitude. It comes naturally to me. I don’t make fun of him. I’ve turned down dozens of offers from people who wanted me to do something idiotic; I won’t do that. It’s a matter of respect – I want to reflect him, not insult him. I’m not a standup comedian, and Donald’s not a humorous guy per se, but he comes up with a few funny lines, so I try to do the same.At the start, big corporations hired me to “fire” their CEOs or boards of directors. Today, I do more meet-and-greets, or short motivational speeches. Things haven’t changed that much since the start of the presidential race, but I have been getting tons and tons of calls. In the past three months, I have had my photo taken with thousands of people. I never get a dime for any of them.Pat Cahill greets JFK in Dublin, June 1963 I’ve met him three times. The first, in 2012, he was in Las Vegas. He spotted me and said: “I know you – you’re a good-looking guy.” We shook hands. The second time we met, last October, he said: “Still looking good.” And in this photograph, taken in February, he is acknowledging me again. I know Elvis there quite well, too; he’s a nice guy.I’m supporting Donald. I like that he’s not a paid-up politician, and that he’s politically incorrect. I’m all for less government, less control. He tells it like it is. On the Muslim thing, the press take it out of context. I think Hillary will get the Democrat nomination, and Donald will get the Republican. He’s a brilliant businessman who is inspiring Republicans to a new standard of caring about the USA and the world, and in the process is crushing the old GOP mentality. I hope he wins – a vote for Donald is a vote for me. But I’m not worried if he loses: he’s going to be in the limelight for a long time.I get my share of rants, but I haven’t been shot at yet, or had my car keyed – my licence plate is TRUMP. Someone did write “Fuck Trump” on the trunk of my car last week in California, though. I also ran into a Democrat there and he chuckled at me.I get it – a lot of people hate Donald Trump. But a lot of people really, really love him.• Interview by Hannah Booth. Are you in a notable photograph? Email thatsme@theguardian.com