In five wordsIntense, roiling, underrated fever dream.Sound of the cityWherever you are in Manila at any time of the day or night, chances are you’ll hear someone blasting local EDM music – known in some regions as bodots – really, really loud. Possibly with pet roosters crowing in the background.Best building      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Where bamboo meets brutalism: the Cultural Centre of the Philippines. Photograph:Tammy DavidWe’re not much of a classically architectural city. Much of our infrastructure was bombed in the second world war, and most of what was left of our early 20th century art deco prime was neglected and then torn down to build shopping malls and condos. Current architecture is prone to copycattery.If I had to choose a building, I’d be predictable and pick the Cultural Centre of the Philippines. Imelda Marcos commissioned the brutalist building during the dictatorial era of her husband Ferdinand. Built in 1969 by architect Leandro Locsin – who was to the Marcos family what Albert Speer was to Hitler, except more artsy – the building is designed based on concepts of the bahay kubo or native bamboo hut. The centre stands as a monument to our turbulent political past, where culture was used to build a mythological nationhood. Say what you might about the plundering conjugal dictators, they have unfortunately been the only Filipino power figures to cohesively champion the edifying cause of contemporary art and design.Homegrown talent      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The art of Yason Banal. Post-Inhibition Episode #8, Post X (2015). Photograph:Yason BanalFor art, I’m currently dissecting the technicolor rigour of Yason Banal. His work fits within the post- or de-colonial (queer) milieu. If you are around the Cubao Expo on a weekday afternoon, among the demi-hipsters and skaters, he just might be hanging out at Post Gallery.For music, the grassroots underground has been quite busy of late. BP Valenzuela’s sweet-voiced and loopy, techy pop music is far from basic. She also forms part of an electronic music collective called Logiclub. Anything by the avant garde electronicist Caliph8 is good. And just the other day I caught the meaty noise improvisations of Pow Martinez, who is also an interesting visual artist.How green is your city?The Philippines was the world’s third highest producer of plastic maritime waste in 2015 as well as the country most affected by climate change in 2013 (pdf).But after Typhoon Ondoy, a small miracle happened (pdf). The government actually passed laws banning plastic shopping bags, something I thought I’d never see in our ecologically challenged city. The implementation of these ordinances has been prone to loopholes, but a change was felt nonetheless. I heard in some conversations around that time that the move towards paper was “anti-poor”, that free plastic bags were a hot commodity in and around the poverty line. Green responsibility – as does the truth – hurts. The look on the street      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Senior style: Ice cream vendor at Katipunan, Quezon City. Photograph:Ralph MendozaWhat Manila does better than anywhere elseCottage industry knick-knacks are probably Manila’s greatest contribution to the material culture imaginarium. Fake university diplomas a la carte. Leather wallets with embossed faces of Jesus and Mary. Custom embroidered patches of all sizes. A rubber stamp of your mum’s face, hand-carved while you wait. The best fresh roasted peanuts. Dirt-cheap Japan surplus ceramics. Very affordable ukay-ukay second-hand clothing you’ll have to sterilise before use.Most underrated location      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Downtown in Divisoria fabric shop. Photograph: Lyza BaumDowntown Manila as a whole, especially the areas around Rizal Avenue, Recto Avenue and Escolta Street. This is the older heart of the city – a rather rough neighbourhood left to decay in fascinatingly human, organic ways. It’s not for the faint hearted though, so if you’re a cautious kind of tourist it’s perhaps best to visit with a local friend.The Recto area is underrated because it is real and gritty, it even scares away quite a few Manila natives. A surprising number of born and bred Manilenyos just can’t deal with the non-air conditioned reality of living in a developing world megacity. If you wander around with common sense as a shield against pickpockets, you might find amazing things on the black market. Best Instagram accountLagunadaily is the hidden Instagram of photographer Czar Kristoff. He captures – with elegance and quietude – the vernacular architecture of peri-urban Manila. Kristoff and I share an obsession with the significance of plastic tarpaulin for the city’s urban landscape. Together, we started a small research project on the topic. Initial findings reveal that plastic tarpaulin covers about 20% of the city’s visible surface area in low-build zones, populated by structures between one to five stories high.Biggest controversy      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   In Manila: ‘Politics is my fashion.’ Photograph: Clara BalaguerThe catch-22 that is the upcoming general election. Bong Bong Marcos – son of a dictator and owner of a silly nickname – is running for vice president, highlighting our lack of political memory. Presidential hopefuls include vigilante justice enthusiast Rodrigo Duterte; allegedly hyper corrupt ex-VP, Jejomar Binay; Grace Poe, the daughter of a famous action movie star, and Mar Roxas, the ex-secretary of interior publicly accused of bungling disaster relief efforts after super typhoon Haiyan.For an articulate insight into Philippine politics, read this essay by award-winning Filipino novelist Miguel Syjuco entitled Beating Dickheads (temporarily not behind a paywall just for you).Moment in history      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   During Typhoon Ondoy. Photograph: Jay Directo/AFP/Getty ImagesTyphoon Ondoy (called Ketsana by the rest of the world), 2009. Over a scant six hours, freakishly heavy rainfall flooded the city more than ever before. It took two days for the water to drain. Once the flood levels subsided, a drive or walk through the city presented a chilling sight: aside from the extensive hurricane damage, a thick skin of tangled plastic bags clung to Manila. The sewers had vomited all of our sordid plastic secrets. It was clear that climate change and relentless land reclamation had not been the only culprits in the catastrophe – the poor waste management habits of the city and its citizens had undeniably made things worse.Top insider’s tips      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The coffee shop area of Ritual, also known as Cafe Barrios. Photograph:Fruhlein EconarFor the bioculturally diverse: buy organic cacao tabliya lozenges from Ritual – the city’s first and only organic general store – to make your very own native hot chocolate with coconut, water buffalo or cow’s milk. If you run into Bea Misa-Crisostomo, the owner of their coffee shop Cafe Barrios, do question her extensively about vernacular culture. If Bea isn’t in, her blog might suit you.Go to the small carinderyas (roadside eateries) by the Golden Mosque (Masjid al-Dahab) in old Manila and order the most amazing tortang talong (roasted eggplant fritter with spring garlic) ever. The fish roe stewed in coconut milk is pretty interesting, if you’re feeling adventurous with textural experiences.For the fancy: inquire at Gallery Vask restaurant for their degustación menu of anthropological Filipino cuisine. Pricey but tasty culinary research.From me      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Clara Balaguer Photograph: Geric CruzClara Balaguer is writer, publisher and social practice artist based in Metro Manila. She runs an art and research platform The Office of Culture and Design (which you can follow on Twitter or Tumblr) as well as a publishing and design “hauz” called Hardworking Goodlooking. You can follow her on Instagram here. Five to followCru CamaraEyedressThousandfoldAlfred MarasiganCoco Quizon