It wasn't quite a ghost town. Enough hardy workers – and shoppers who cannot get by without their fix of retail therapy – had ditched the car and bus and hiked or cycled into Worcester city centre.But still the shopping streets were eerily quiet after the dramatic decision was taken to close Worcester bridge, the main route in from the south, to traffic on safety grounds.The fear was that rising water from the swollen river Severn would sweep across the stone bridge, causing havoc to traffic trying to cross.In the event, it inundated some riverside pubs, cafes and flats but did not cover the bridge and it was being partially re-opened on Monday afternoon – with the proviso that it may be closed again on Tuesday when the river is again expected to threaten riverside properties and streets.It meant a quiet day for shopkeepers such as Vicky Evans, of Toys and Games on Broad Street. "We were surprised they shut the bridge," said Evans, who walked into work. "But I suppose it's best if it's for safety reasons."Morgan Smart's till at the Lifestyle Express newsagent's and general store was jingling because of the extra passing foot trade. "We actually did quite well out of it first thing. But then at 10am it went dead. All the workers were in, nobody else was coming," he said.But shopper Jane Brown, who had walked in two miles and then taken a shuttle bus that the council laid on across the bridge, was enjoying the tranquillity of the city centre. "It's usually pretty busy on a Monday. It feels like an old-fashioned Sunday today. And it was lovely being able to cross the bridge without the fear of getting knocked down by the traffic. I've enjoyed it actually."Pharmacist Ruth Egginton was not so impressed. She was staying in a riverside flat and could not work out what the whooshing sound was as she travelled up in the building's lift. "Then I realised it was water pouring into the lift shaft. I thought, that's not good."Work has been busy for Egginton and her colleagues: they are getting as many medicines out to patients as possible in the expectation that the floods will cut off more people as the week goes on.Carpenter Matt Reeves was preparing to put out his handmade flood barrier to protect his pine shop. "It's made of pine, obviously, and capped with plastic. It works well."On Monday the river here is not yet as high as it was in 2007, when much of Worcestershire and Gloucestershire went underwater but the Environment Agency warned that the Severn was higher further upstream at Shrewsbury in Shropshire than it had been for many years – and that water was on the way down.The county council said the closures and the water levels were under constant review. "Please note the bridge may be closed again if flooding increases again," it said in a statement. "The situation is being closely monitored by partners. We are working hard to keep the city open while keeping people safe.