On 20 and 21 January, millions of people will march in cities across the globe. The Women’s March on Washington could be one of the biggest protests in US history, and more than 600 Sister Marches are planned. People will come together to express opposition and solidarity. They will remind the planet’s most powerful people of the rights of every single person on the planet.Yet the majority of those marching will be from countries that are relatively affluent. In Central African Republic (CAR), where I live, no marches are planned. CAR is the third poorest country in the world, and has barely emerged from a brutal civil war. Only a third of the population have access to clean water. There is a government, but it has no reach in vast swaths of the country. Nearly 70% of girls are married before their 18th birthday, and the teenage pregnancy rate is over 45%. Why is no one marching in Central African Republic? Because it isn’t safe I’ve been working in CAR for nearly a year, as part of the international humanitarian aid effort. I’ve seen the impact of war and generations of poverty at first hand. Fighting broke out in 2012 and continued for two years. Even though there is now an uneasy peace, fighting continues in the north and east, and the tensions created between Muslims and Christians, who generally fought on opposing sides, are evident.More than a million people fled their homes. Children have told me how they survived on leaves in the forest, walking by day and hiding at night, always moving around to avoid being found by “the bad men with machetes”. Today, more than half of the country’s population relies on humanitarian aid.It isn’t known how many women were sexually assaulted during the conflict, but rape was a common weapon of war for both sides, and survivors report repeated attacks. For these women, rape was already a part of their lives before the conflict. Victim-shaming is normal, with survivors publicly labelled as “whores” or “garbage” by community leaders. Only one court in the country has ever convicted anyone of rape.So why is no one marching here? Because it isn’t safe. In November 2015, teargas was used on a group of high-school girls who gathered in the capital, Bangui, to raise awareness of a sexual assault. Even when walking to market or to visit a neighbour, women travel in pairs, and very few people go out after dark. UN peacekeeping forces, as well as the national army and police, are a constant presence on the streets of Bangui, and although demonstrations aren’t illegal, they are strongly discouraged. Anyone can be stopped and searched by police or military personnel, who are likely to impose arbitrary “fines”.Women's March on Washington set to be one of America's biggest protests When we talk about solidarity in the rich world, about no one being left behind, we’re usually talking about people with electricity and broadband. How did you hear about the Sister March you’re planning to attend? How is it being organised?Only 10% of the population in CAR have access to electricity, and most of those are in the capital. Internet access is a privilege enjoyed only by government bodies and NGOs. Without access to digital technology, how can women hope to hear about this “global” movement? How can their voices be heard in Bangui, let alone Washington or London?CAR isn’t a hopeless country. Its people do, however, have a strong sense of being ignored. I asked several women what they thought about this weekend’s planned marches, and without exception, their eyes lit up. “Women are doing this? Women in your country must be very powerful.”Yes, we are powerful. Yes, there are those who seek to stifle us and diminish our voices, but if we can march this weekend, we are powerful and privileged. We have a responsibility to speak for those who lack these powers and privileges, and the women of CAR have a right to expect this of us. So when you put on your pussy hat for the march, maybe pick up a spare pair of shoes, and carry them with you as a sign of solidarity with a woman who would love to march, but can’t.