More than three quarters (76%) of UK adults now own a smartphone, up from 52% in 2012. But the number of people using their phone to make voice calls is falling. The share of device owners saying they make at least one voice call a week has dropped down from 96% to 75% over the past three years, according to research carried out by Ipsos Mori for Deloitte.Over that time period there has been a significant increase in people communicating in alternative ways, such as through instant messaging (IM) applications. This is on top of faster, bigger phones and increased data coverage.The amount of time a typical UK smartphone user spends on non-voice activities has almost trebled since 2012 to reach 90 minutes a day.Paul Lee, head of technology, media and telecommunications research at Deloitte, said: “There has been a proliferation of tools on the market which allow you to talk without speaking. The main alternative in terms of usage is text messaging for older people and IM for younger people but there are lots of other variants.“If you wanted to order a minicab beforehand, you would have to call and book. Now you can do all of that without talking. There are more and more processes where the need to talk is being shifted onto a smartphone user interface. For those who don’t want the talk the ability to avoid it is getting easier.”While traditional voice calling is on the decline it looks unlikely that people will stop using their phones to talk to each other. In 2015, 14% of smartphone users made calls transmitted over the Wi-Fi or cellular data network, up from 5% in 2014.Lee says that Voice over LTE – phone conversations carried over the data connection of a 4G network which are of higher quality and can be switched from an audio call to a video call – are likely to supplant traditional phone calls over the next decade. “If you imagine your boiler is not working and you call up the plumbers, you can either try and describe what’s wrong or you can show the flashing light. It creates a much more value-added experience when you can start showing things rather than just describe them in words,” he said. The polling numbers also reveal how integrated the mobile devices have become into Britons’ daily routine. Twelve per cent of smartphone users polled said they looked at it as soon as they woke up, while the majority (55%) have done so within 15 minutes of stirring. In total, British adults look at their phone 1.1bn times every 24 hours – about 28 glances per phone owner aged over 18.Two-thirds of smartphone users get out their devices on public transport, 65% do so at work and almost half will use it while meeting a friend. Just below one in three said they use their phone while eating at a restaurant. Attitudes towards mobile phone etiquette are much more liberal among younger users. Four out of five device owners aged 18-to-24 said they would use it on public transport while 43% do so when eating at a restaurant. More dangerously, a fifth said they look at their smartphones while they cross the road.Methodology: Data cited in this report are based on a nationally representative sample of 4,000 UK consumers aged 18-75. The sample follows a country specific quota on age, gender, region, working and socio-economic status. Fieldwork took place during May to June 2015 and was carried out online by Ipsos Mori.