The industrial apartment that theatre designer Tom Scutt calls home is tucked away on an unassuming street in east London. Flitting around his kitchen making coffee – and it’s exactly the sort of kitchen you see in coffee adverts, all open shelves and aspiration – you’d never guess from his breezy chat that Scutt is horrifically jetlagged. Later, he’ll show me a rooster he drew at 3am in the absence of sleep. It’s brilliant, detailed and, given that the rooster is wearing a wrestling singlet, a little leftfield – much like Scutt himself.The jetlag is due to Scutt’s return from New York, where he designed his second MTV Video Music Awards show, and where he’s preparing for the opening of Les Liaisons Dangereuses, transferring to Broadway after its sell-out run at the Donmar Warehouse in London. Scutt’s CV reads like a checklist of every must-see play in recent years: Constellations by Nick Payne, starring Rafe Spall and Sally Hawkins in London and Jake Gyllenhaal and Ruth Wilson on Broadway; The Deep Blue Sea at the National Theatre, starring Helen McCrory; and the Almeida production of Mike Bartlett’s King Charles III, for which Scutt landed a Tony nomination this year after its transfer to New York.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A replica Eames chair from the set of 2012’s Absent Friends. Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the GuardianDo people assume his home will be the definition of good taste on account of his work? “I don’t know, but if ever a fancy dress party comes up, it’s a designer’s nightmare because people have… expectations,” he grins. “It can make Halloween quite stressful.” His flat is loft-style, with white walls, exposed bricks, wooden floors, and an open-plan kitchen/living room – compact but light thanks to vast industrial metal windows from which you can see the Barbican. But it’s what Scutt has filled the space with, from furniture to curiosities that draw the eye.Many of the items (such as a driftwood figure and stones he collected on a beach last New Year while away with friends) remind him of memorable, happy times. Others reference his career: a butterfly glass display box, from a production of Alice Through The Looking Glass, that Scutt has filled with old family photos; a poster for a production of Coriolanus his dad produced while at Cambridge; and, of course, souvenirs of Scutt’s own productions.We conduct the interview sitting on “Anna Chancellor” and “Kara Tointon”. Scutt explains: “Most of my furniture comes from shows I’ve done. This Ercol sofa is from a [2011] double bill at Chichester of Terence Rattigan’s The Browning Version and South Downs by David Hare that starred Anna Chancellor. She spent a lot of time sitting on the sofa, so it’s named after her. Similarly, actor Kara Tointon spent most of Alan Ayckbourn’s Absent Friends [2012] in that replica Eames chair you’re sitting in.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A costume from a youth theatre production of Metropolis. Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the GuardianOf his own house, he says, “It’s about creating a space that you can simultaneously be inspired by and isn’t too invasive – it doesn’t cloud your head too much. The things that inspire me are constantly changing, so I like to have regular clear-outs. It’s a bit like clothes – the ones you haven’t worn for years can be got rid of. The same is true of objects: if there’s something I haven’t got anything from for a while, I know it’s time for it to go.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An MTV Video Music Award – Scutt designed the 2015 and 2016 shows. Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the GuardianThere are other bits of pop culture detritus, too: Kermit the Frog (Scutt is a Muppets fan), and a Tintin figure. The latter stands atop a black cube that, it transpires, is a scale model of one featured in Scutt’s breakthrough show, Mike Bartlett’s dystopian 13, at the National Theatre in 2011.For all the importance of possessions, Scutt’s understanding of the notion of home has changed over the years. “I used to live in a two-bedroom house where I had my studio in the spare room. I fooled myself into believing I needed loads of space because I’m a theatre designer, and have all these model boxes and stuff. Moving here, I was apprehensive about downscaling, but I realised that actually the problem all along was that I had too much space. I just couldn’t control it.”Furthermore, his parents moved from the family home, so he “can’t physically return to that nostalgic place any more”; and he rents rather than owns, which means “I’m on the move every three years or so.” As a result, home is more about people and less about the physical space.“There’s a nomadic, often lonely, lifestyle that comes with my job, not only in terms of geographical places, but the way people pass through your life. You make these families on the job, and then you move on. So I made the decision to live near friends and have that support network close by. My best friend lives 45 seconds away, so living here is the best I’ve ever felt.”Designs fit for Kanye and a future king – the stage worlds of Tom Scutt House rulesMost treasured possession My Muhammad Ali autograph. Design heroes Peter Greenaway, Ken Adams, Saul Bass.Where do you relax? On my Ercol sofa. It has a mixed reception from guests, who feel that a firm sofa is an oxymoron.Bedside reading Blueprint magazine, current script, collection of short stories, yesterday’s to-do list.What are your house rules? Leave Kermit alone.