Reality TV junkies rejoice, NBCUniversal is to launch a one-stop TV streaming service that will be the home to hits including Keeping Up with the Kardashians, Made in Chelsea and The Real Housewives franchise.The new subscription service, which will launch in the UK, Ireland & Australia next month, will be priced at £3.99 a month.The service, called Hayu, will offer access to over 3,000 episodes of shows including Don’t Tell the Bride, Shahs of Sunset, Ru Paul’s Drag Race and The Millionaire Matchmaker.About 150 shows will be made available on the service by the end of its first year. Kevin MacLellan, chairman of NBCUniversal International, said that the company found that lots of its hit shows were watched illegally by fans outside the US. Hayu, which will offer the majority of its US shows on the service the same day as their first airing in the US, was in part an attempt to get pirates to turn to a legal service.“We are one of largest producers of unscripted content in the world. We have multiple [TV] channels in the US, and much of that is reality shows,” said MacLellan. “A fairly small proportion gets distributed [to broadcasters] internationally but a large amount of this content is watched online, a lot of it illegally. There is a lot of opportunity outside the US, a lot of white space, and people want to engage with [our shows].”He said there is a global market of fans to be tapped given that many of the shows and their stars, such as the Kardashians, are international celebrities that attract a lot of press, social media and digital coverage.“We have some very big shows in the US,” he said. “They don’t air in some markets, or do so in a small way. However, we see a massive amount of online activity around them, as well as tweets and press coverage, even when a show doesn’t air in a particular country. [Hayu] will help develop brands in the way many other services have not done.”MacLellan said that the shows it produces that already have broadcast deals in place, such as Made in Chelsea on Channel 4 and its on-demand service, and Don’t Tell the Bride on Sky, would not be removed from their digital services in favour of Hayu.“The idea here is not to try and take content from the linear [TV] players – this will support them,” he said. “Channel 4 is a great client, they commission Made in Chelsea so will keep first run [TV rights] as long as they like. They are the commissioning client, we are completely supportive of that. From our perspective this is a win-win.”MacLellan said that Hayu was a “next generation” subscription video-on-demand service that would marry TV with social media such as Twitter and Facebook.“There is a lot of social discussion around reality shows,” he said. “Tweeting, sharing, there is a community, a tribe, built up around [them]. Particularly women 16 to 39 years old. We have integrated that social interaction into the service.”Hayu will allow users to do things such as put clips and content onto Facebook, send video via email, and find all the Twitter and Instagram accounts of reality stars in one place.NBCUniversal’s move is the latest sign that the market is moving beyond general services such as Netflix and Amazon with niche content offerings based on specific genres and audiences. In October, Disney launched its own service targeted at kids, offering hits from Frozen to Toy Story – which at £9.99 a month is more than twice the price of Hayu.“I think in 10 years anyone in the market who thinks there [was] a glut of content [now] is foolish,” he said. “The issue is people finding the content. There is not too much content online. Finding defined niches is incredibly important in this. It is not a matter of too much content online, it is allowing people to find it simply.”Last August, NBCUniversal announced it was to invest $200m in BuzzFeed and $200m in Vox Media. 