Like farmers, cyclists know that the British countryside is capable of serving up four seasons’ worth of weather in a single day. Traditionally, road cyclists would have a lightweight mudguard-less summer “best bike” for dry, sunny days and a winter understudy for wet, gritty rides. The former would likely be carbon-framed and the more expensive of the two, the latter made from tougher steel or aluminium, with mudguards firmly attached. However, recently UK bike brands have been attempting to blend these attributes into a “four seasons” bicycle. The key features of these bikes are a metal frame for longevity and comfort, disc brakes for powerful stopping in all conditions, and clearance for full mudguards and wider tyres.Fairlight Strael 105Steel; 9.35kg (54R frame) £1,849; frame only £899      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fairlight StraelThis London brand launched at the tail end of last year. The emphasis is on “proportional geometry” – meaning it produces each frame size with two headtube lengths. It also encourages buyers to provide bike-fit data or body measurements to ensure they are sold a correctly fitting model. That perfect fit combined with oval tubes and 28mm tyres takes the sting out of rough road surfaces and creates a really unwrinkled ride. Another plus is its flat-mounted Shimano hydraulic brakes, which seem less prone to rubbing than the post-mounted variety. The Hunt wheels this bike came with are a £209 upgrade and the Hope headset and seat clamp are an additional £40. Verdict: Definitely the best value here: a fantastic frame, excellent components and a near-bespoke fit make this a victorious package.J Laverack J.ACK IIITitanium; 8.9kg (56cm frame) £5,950; frame £1,750      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The J Laverack J.ACK III.J Laverack is a two-year-old bike brand based in Rutland that specialises in titanium. This top-of-the-line model comes with Dura-Ace Di2 electronic gear-shifting, carbon Enve finishing kit, Hunt deep section wheels and tubeless 28mm Schwalbe tyres. A couple of motorists shouted at me while I was riding this bike. Not the usual abuse, rather compliments such as “amazing bike mate”. It’s not lightweight but it helped me shave 20 seconds from my Box Hill personal best and on some hilly 100-mile rides in Kent it felt unstoppable.Verdict: If you can leave the elephantine price tag to one side this is a phenomenal bike.Kinesis GF_TI DiscTitanium; 8.66kg (56cm frame); frame £1,999      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Kinesis GF_TI Disc.This is the West Sussex brand’s most expensive and bestselling frame. This model came equipped with flat-mounted cable disc brakes – which aren’t as powerful as hydraulics but still outperform rim brakes on a wet day. The 4S has a utilitarian look about it and it shrugged off all the muck and grit the winter roads sent its way. This was the only bike to come shod in 25mm tyres, which placed the ride quality somewhere between the Laverack and the Mason – and, even more subjectively, its speed too. This is a great frame that was let down by its parts. With hydraulic brakes and plusher 28mm tyres it would probably compete with the Laverack.Verdict: With better chosen components, probably a great choice.Mango Point AR TiagraAlloy; 10.82kg (medium frame) £749      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Mango Point AR Tiagra.This is a whole bike costing less than most of the frames listed here – and well under the standard £1,000 bike-to-work tax-exemption scheme. So what do you get for your money? You get voluminous 32mm tyres to soak up lumpy roads, solid cable disc brakes, sturdy Shimano gears and a choice of fluoro colours. But you also get the odd unexplained creak and an extra kilo or so of metal to haul up hills. Unless you’re an exceptionally strong rider you might find this bike slows you down a little, but that may not be a concern.Verdict: Fantastic value. A great option for exploring country lanes in all weathers.Genesis Equilibrium Disc 30Steel; 10.01kg (medium frame) £1,999; frame £549      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Genesis Equilibrium Disc 30.This popular UK brand has been making the Equilibrium Disc since 2014 and this model currently sits at the top of the range. The lime green frame and amber walled tyres certainly help the bike stand out on a grey winter’s day. Riding up hills was harder because of the bike’s bulk, however, it does come equipped with fail-safe Shimano Ultegra gears and hydraulic brakes. The latter are post-mounted, compared with the newer flat-mounted standard (which sit closer to the frame or forks and look neater) featured on some of these bikes.Verdict: At this price it loses out to Strael, but the two cheaper bikes in the range represent better value. Another option would be to buy a frameset and build the bike yourself with lighter components.Mason Definition Ultegra HydroAlloy; 9.08kg (54cm frame) £2,995; frame £1,095      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mason Definition UltegraUntil carbon came along, alloy was a hugely popular frame material on account of its lightness, stiffness and the economies of mass producing aluminium bikes. Brighton-based Mason has taken a more artisanal approach with these frames, which are built in small batches in Italy. Although the ride quality is a little harsher than the other bikes here, it seems fast and you feel as though all your power is being transferred to propel you forwards, rather than being lost to flexing in the frame. This bike is packed with neat design touches – particularly the routing of the internal cabling and a new fork that features a thru-axle with an adjustable lever position.Verdict: For riders who aren’t going to let the weather slow them down.Engineered Bicycles GezelSteel; 9.6kg; £3,935; frame £2,250      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Engineered Bicycles GezelWhile this appears costly even among this group of expensive bikes, the Gezel is almost bespoke – you can choose the paint colour, the type of bottom bracket, cable routing, wheel fixing plus a multitude of other options – aside from your selection of components. Engineered says 80-90% of its customers fit a standard size frame; bespoke costs an additional £450 including bike fit.This example came equipped with Shimano 105 and hydraulic flat-mount brakes, Strada handbuilt wheels plus some Swarf carbon mudguards – the bike’s looks attracted a lot of positive comments, including the mudguards which were described as “the most beautiful I’ve ever seen” by another rider.On the road it was the quietest bike I’ve ever ridden. Riding solo in the country was an eerily silent experience, leaving nothing but the sound of rubber rolling on tarmac and my own thoughts.Verdict: If you’ve got fantasy bike in mind, Engineered can finely tune it for reality.ConclusionsAfter trying these bikes, I began to build up a list of features I’d like on my own ride, the idea being to create one bike for all-year-round, all-weather, long-distance riding. Here’s my shopping list, in order of priority…1. Titanium frame. Lighter than steel, more longevity than carbon, better ride quality than alloy. And pleasing acoustics when you change gear.2. Flat-mount hydraulic brakes. If the selection above is a good sample, aside from looking neater than post-mount, flat-mount require less brawn to stop and are less prone to rubbing and chinging. Plus, flat-mount appears to be the new standard, and where the component manufacturers are innovating.3. Wide-rimmed wheels with 28mm tubeless tyres. Voluminous to soak up the UK’s dodgy road surfaces – and, if they’re assembled correctly, pretty much puncture-free.This list would point towards the Kinesis 4S Disc above. However, it was tricky to compare it with the other bikes because of the cable gears and thinner tyres it came supplied with. Yet it is an award-winning bike and has lots of satisfied owners. The J Laverack J.ACK III tried had post-mount brakes, however they will soon be offered with a flat-mounts, so that would be a very strong contender. And later in the year, Mason is bringing out a titanium version of the Definition (there’s already a steel version called the Resolution) which will tick all three boxes above and more – although judging by the cost of its recently released Bokeh gravel bike, the frame could cost around £3,000 alone. And for less than two-thirds of that you could be the very happy and very lucky owner of a Fairlight Strael.Credits for main photo: POC Octal helmet and Do Half Blade sunglasses, £195, £150; Velobici Vione Gilet £140; Velobici Continental Thermal Jersey and Bib Shorts set £300; Velobici leg warmers £55 and; Fizik R4B road shoes £175. 