 The British Museum, long intransigent on repatriating treasures such as the Parthenon marbles to their original owners, has entered detailed negotiations with a Victorian Aboriginal clan about potentially returning its sacred artefacts from London.Since mid-2015 the museum – which has a collection of about 6,000 Indigenous Australian items – has corresponded and met with the Dja Dja Wurrung’s Yung Balug clan elder Gary Murray, who is demanding the return of three bark artefacts and other material taken from his people in the 1850s.Indigenous leaders fight for return of relics featuring in major new exhibition This week the British Museum’s deputy director, Jonathan Williams, issued Murray and the Dja Dja Wurrung with a draft memorandum of understanding indicating “shared interest relating to the objects associated with the Dja Dja Wurrung people in the British Museum”.The memorandum is a likely first step towards a 2017 exhibition that would feature the barks. The exhibition would be held at the Bendigo Regional Art Gallery, in Dja Dja Wurrung country in central Victoria, and would represent a return of the items, freighted with great spiritual significance to their owners, to their country for the first time in 160 years.The negotiations between the museum and Murray raise the possibility that any repatriation of the barks could initially take the form of a temporary loan to the Bendigo exhibition, followed by a later more permanent loan or return covered by a memorandum of understanding.Murray is hopeful that the exhibition will be a precede to the permanent repatriation of the barks – as a loan or as an unqualified return by the British Museum – to a yet-to-be built cultural, arts and environment centre at Boort in the heart of Yung Balug clan country where the barks originated.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   One of the three bark artefacts that could be on their way to the Bendigo Regional Art Gallery next year. Photograph: Museum Victoria/AAPHe is encouraged by the museum’s initiative on the memorandum and sees it as a potential first step on the road to the permanent return of the barks and other items that were taken from his people and sold to the museum in the 1850s.“Yes, the Yung Balug are encouraged by the dialogue and written position of the museum,” he said. “But action speaks louder than words or emails. Having these items come for an exhibition in Bendigo, part of Dja Dja Wurrung country, is, in itself, a form of return or repatriation of these items to country,” he said.“Hopefully the parties are able to open up a positive dialogue built on recognition and respect. Our aim would be to scope an agreement that meets our goals to return all cultural materials.”The formal negotiations between the Dja Dja Wurrung and the British Museum began in July last year when the museum was in the midst of its exhibition, Indigenous Australia: Enduring Civilisation. The exhibition and its catalogue featured the barks – two smoked etchings and an emu headdress – which are thought to be the only of their type still in existence. Indigenous bark art is today largely synonymous with the Yolngu of north-east Arnhem Land. But the Dja Dja Wurrung around Boort were prolific bark craftsmen and the trees around the lake there still wear the scars testifying to this.One of the barks is now on display at the National Museum of Australia as an important component of the exhibition Encounters, which is drawn from the British Museum’s Australian Indigenous collection. The curator and head of the British Museum’s Oceania section (which includes Australia), Gaye Sculthorpe, has been central to the behind-the-scenes negotiations with Murray and the Dja Dja Wurrung.An Indigenous Tasmanian, she has strong links to Aboriginal elders and leaders in Victoria including Murray, the academic historian and artist Gary Foley, and the writer and historian Tony Birch. Sculthorpe was a member of the National Native Title Tribunal, which helps determine Indigenous land claims under the Australian Commonwealth Native Title Act, for 13 years until 2013 when she joined the British Museum.She curated Indigenous Australia: Enduring Civilisation. She also previously worked at the Melbourne Museum (now Museum Victoria), which played a central and controversial role in the genesis of moves in 2004 to repatriate the Dja Dja Wurrung barks.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gary Murray, an elder of the Dja Dja Wurrung’s Yung Balug clan, is negotiating with the British Museum. Photograph: Andrew Brownbill/AAPOn 24 July 2015, Murray emailed Sculthorpe and the British Museum’s board of trustees, formally requesting the “British Museum trustees to support the return of the Etched Barks and Emu Headdress from Boort in the northern sector of Dja Dja Wurrung country”.“The Yung Balug are open to formal cultural and intellectual exchanges between our First Nations and the British Museum ... This could be done by way of a legally binding memorandum of understanding or agreement.”On 27 August 2015, Jonathan Williams of the British Museum’ wrote to Murray, acknowledging “the importance of these materials to your people as you have outlined”.“As you may know, the terms of the British Museum Act 1963 restrict the removal of objects from the collections except in very limited circumstances … Any decision about removal is made by the museum trustees,” he wrote.“Notwithstanding this, the museum would be pleased to engage in dialogue with Dja Dja Wurrung people about the matters you have raised.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Great Court at the British Museum, still the leading repository of colonial treasure from all corners of the empire. Photograph: David Sillitoe for the GuardianSuch matters include: the exploration of a “cultural exchange” between the Dja Dja Wurrung and the museum; the provision of replica barks by the museum; helping the tribe to find any other of its items in the collection; and ongoing communication.“I note you recently discussed these issues … with Gaye Sculthorpe, including the possibility of a loan of objects to the Bendigo Regional Art Gallery, if that gallery is agreeable. I will ask Gaye to continue to liaise with you about this. Any decision about a loan will of course need to be agreed by the British Museum’s trustees,” he wrote.Preservation or plunder? The battle over the British Museum’s Indigenous Australian show Murray’s clan of the Dja Dja Wurrung is custodian of the country around Boort, northern Victoria, where John Hunter Kerr – a Scottish-born squatter, photographer and self-taught anthropologist – acquired the barks in the early 1850s before exhibiting them in Bendigo in 1854.In 1849 Kerr brought the 89,000-acre Edgar Plains pastoral lease near the Loddon river in Boort. He renamed the property Fernyhurst and, while living there until 1861, befriended some of the Indigenous owners of the land who continued to camp and hunt there. A prolific photographer, he captured many of the first photographic images of Indigenous people in central Victoria. Many of his original photographs are in the collection of the State Library of Victoria.He was also an obsessive collector of Dja Dja Wurrung artefacts including weapons, shields and tools.After he displayed the Dja Dja Wurrung barks at Bendigo in 1854, they appeared in the 1855 Paris International Exposition. They were then sold to the British Museum where they remained until 2004 when they were loaned to the Melbourne Museum. In 2004, Murray, on behalf of the Dja Dja Wurrung, used the federal Aboriginal Cultural Heritage Act to seize the barks while they were on loan. After a protracted court case brought by the Melbourne Museum the barks were eventually returned to the British Museum.The Boort barks might, arguably, be a prized part of the British Museum’s Australian Indigenous collection. But for the Dja Dja Wurrung they are spiritual objects that encapsulate the land of ancestral dreaming, its animals and the very spirits of the ancestors themselves.Indigenous people see “old” objects not just as relics from the past but as an embodiment of a continuing culture and of the essence of the people who once used them. The materials used in them – animal fur, feathers, flint and wood – represent a direct contemporary link to country. Many believe they belong only in country, even if that means they eventually disappear and return to the soil – not in a foreign archive.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Encounters exhibition at the National Museum of Australia features one of the Boort barks – a move some Indigenous activists see as unduly provocative. Photograph: Mike Bowers for the GuardianPosed photographs, such as Kerr’s, and paintings are especially culturally sensitive. In many instances they represent to descendants a physical and spiritual embodiment of the subject.Some Indigenous activists believe it was unduly provocative for the National Museum of Australia to include one of the barks in its current Encounters exhibition, given the legal furore surrounding the forced return of the pieces to London after the Dja Dja Wurrung’e 2004 attempt to claim them.Activists including Murray and Foley were further angered to discover that, in 2013, the federal government legislated the Cultural Objects on Loan Act. Federal parliament passed the law amid scant media scrutiny and with bipartisan support from the major political parties. In the wake of the 2004 barks fracas the legislation was initiated at the behest of Australia’s major cultural institutions, which wanted to be able to give a watertight legal guarantee to foreign counterparts, not least the British Museum, that any collection items on loan in Australia would always return.The Encounters exhibition, which includes some 150 items from the British Museum collection, would not have otherwise gone ahead.So it is amid these tense atmospherics that Murray, Sculthorpe and Williams began their negotiations last year.Encounters exhibition: a stunning but troubling collection of colonial plunder Murray has previously said of Sculthorpe: “We actually hope that Gaye Sculthorpe stays there at the British Museum because she is our link to that Indigenous collection that they stubbornly refuse to give back to us. She is a good mediator – we know that from her involvement in native title disputes in Australia. But me and my people believe she needs to step up right now and show strong leadership and get our things back – not stand in front of the display case. We’re waiting.” Murray and Sculthorpe met in Melbourne before Christmas to discuss the proposed Bendigo exhibition and his long-term aim of more permanent repatriation. They also met an official from the State Library of Victoria to discuss the use of its collection of Kerr’s photographs in the planned exhibition.Sculthorpe and Murray are due to meet again in Melbourne soon.A British Museum spokeswoman did not respond directly to a question about whether Murray was right to view the positive negotiations over the proposed 2017 Bendigo exhibition and the possible provision of replica barks as a preceding a more permanent repatriation agreement. The Museum is committed to sharing its collection across the world and is the world’s leading lender of objectsBritish Museum spokeswoman The spokeswoman confirmed the museum had previously loaned items to the Bendigo Regional Art Gallery. “There are on-going discussions about possible future loans in relation to a number of communities in Australia,” she said.“As you know any issue regarding the disposition of the collection is a matter for the trustees of the British Museum. As a general principle, the trustees of the British Museum will consider (subject to the usual considerations of condition and fitness to travel) any part of the collection to be loaned to other institutions.”She did not respond to a question about the circumstances under which the museum had returned items in its collection to countries of provenance.The museum had twice returned Indigenous ancestral human remains to Australia, she said, but “the museum has not permanently returned any other material to Australia from the collection”.She said: “The museum is committed to sharing its collection across the world and is the world’s leading lender of objects.”The museum remains the leading repository of colonial treasure from all corners of the once-great empire – and far beyond – it has long served.There can be no doubt that countries from all continents will be watching, eagle-eyed for precedent, the progress of negotiations between the Dja Dja Wurrung people of central Victoria and the custodians of the British Museum’s bulging vaults.Greece, of course, will be particularly attentive, as it has been since Murray and the Dja Dja Wurrung first made a grab for the barks in 2004.Back then the Australian Greek community supported Murray, Foley and other Aboriginal people who were agitating for the barks to stay in Australia. Their common ground was simple: they believed the British Museum was intransigent on the barks because returning them to Australia would set a precedent for returning other objects, such as the Parthenon marbles.It is beyond time for Britain to apologise to Australia's Indigenous people | Paul Daley Last year Foley again attacked the museum in a seminar convened by the Greek Orthodox community of Melbourne. “The British Museum grew out of the era of colonialism,” he said. “The rest of the world grew out of those ideas 100 years ago. Their position has no credibility in the modern world. It’s really that simple.”For his part Murray has responded positively to the British Museum’s potential offer of replica barks.“The replicas … are an interesting add-on and could be used far and wide to promote the issue of the barks as well as our cultural heritage generally,” he said. “It is a practical way of educating the community … better than a photo on a PowerPoint.”But, he stressed, replicas were no substitute for the real thing.“We want them back. They’re ours. So we’ll keep talking.”