Bad guys talk too much. It’s their prerogative. Especially when, as temporary kings in a fallen world, they get to ritually humiliate a cowering bunch of humans who fear that they’re next to get clipped. Think Samuel L Jackson citing Ezekiel 25:17 in Pulp Fiction. Think Christoph Waltz waxing anti-Semitic in Inglourious Basterds. Think Dennis Hopper explaining the philosophical significance of his bus bomb in Speed.And so it was with Negan, leader of the diabolical Saviours, blood dripping from Lucille, his prosthetic phallus of a barbed-wire-wrapped baseball bat, midway through the season seven premiere of The Walking Dead. At that moment, he was insisting that our hero Rick cut off the arm of his own son, Carl. If Rick didn’t, Negan would slay Rick’s gang one by one, while he watched. Then he would waste Rick too, just to be thorough.The compelling Jeffrey Dean Morgan (of Grey’s Anatomy and The Good Wife) played Negan as a biker gang leader mashup of Robert Downey Jr and Humphrey Bogart circa In a Lonely Place. Morgan was clearly enjoying himself as he monologued through this episode and who – in his place – wouldn’t? He was slightly camp and absolutely terrifying, not least because he was wittingly or otherwise channelling the hideous leering rictus of Killer Bob from Twin Peaks.At least you know what the walkers are going to do. Walk towards you, very slowly, mouths open. Negan, by contrast, was unpredictable: you had no idea who he’d murder next. But there was method in his seemingly random slayings: because Rick’s people had slain some of his, frankly quite unpleasant, Saviours, he needed to send a message. He needed, too, to subdue any survivors by means of a brief, shattering campaign of terror. Or as he put it: “I will shut that shit down. No exceptions.”This was, to put it mildly, uncomfortable viewing: 45-plus minutes of torture porn mingled with something even more unpalatable – bitter feelings about the systematic humiliation of the characters we’ve taken for so many years of this drama to be the good guys. Rick and his gang have triumphed over all kinds of adversities and adversaries (the endless undead, David Morrissey’s Governor, the loss of loved ones, not to mention eyes, limbs etc) and we have suffered and rejoiced with them. As a result, this wasn’t so much entertainment as psychic evisceration for us.At the end of the last season, Negan’s bat descended on someone’s head as they cowered in the nighttime dirt of a clearing backlit by headlights. Blood from the blow spattered on to the camera lens, so that we, the viewers, had a victim’s eye perspective. But who got whacked? And who, moreover, could we bear to die? (Just don’t kill Michone, I said to myself. Anyone but her).       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fan sites and social media have teemed with speculation as to who would – indeed should – get done in by Lucille. Photograph: Gene Page/AMCFan sites and social media have teemed with speculation as to who would – indeed should – get done in. Some wanted Rosita slain, others thought Eugene expendable. If I’d been writing, Maggie would have been killed. Could there be a bleaker denouement than her murder, given that she’s pregnant and that, if there is hope for humanity, it resides in her belly? Too right there couldn’t be.But the writers didn’t roll that way. Instead, Abraham got clipped. Bam! went Lucille on his stout head. Abraham, bloodied but unbowed, stared back at Negan defiantly. “Take it like a champ,” said Negan, impressed. “Suck my nuts,” retorted Abraham, which, coincidentally, will be my last words. Seconds later his brains were in the dust.Minutes after that, the bat descended once more – this time on Glenn, one-time pizza delivery guy, later adorable husband of no-less lovely Maggie and now dead, leaving his unborn child fatherless and Maggie bereft. But there was time for Negan to extend the cruel moment: “Buddy are you still there?” he quipped after he’d hit Glenn once. “I just popped your eyeball out and it’s as gross as shit.” Here, the screenplay was on the verge of mocking us in the audience. We, after all, watch The Walking Dead to witness violence, but usually the innocent violence of the undead getting slain.Here, to watch the murders of humans unfold was not just painful, but called into question what we think we’re doing when we watch this stuff for entertainment. “You bunch of pussies,” snarled Negan at one point, silhouetted apocalyptically by headlights. “I’m just getting started!” He was addressing the remaining members of Rick’s gang, but he could have been talking to us as we hid behind our hands. How much more of this could we take? Personally, not much more. “This,” Negan rightly observed, “is some screwed-up shit.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   At least you know what the walkers are going to do. Walk towards you, very slowly, mouths open. Negan, by contrast, was unpredictable. Photograph: Gene Page/AMCBetter yet, the episode cut back and forth from the killing ground to Negan taking Rick on a ride in the RV. Negan drove to a misty dell jumping with walkers, chucked an axe into the murk then threw Rick out to fend for his life. Would Rick survive? Though tear-stained and crushed, he was soon on the RV’s roof, momentarily safe from the madding crowds. Until, that is, Negan decided to start perforating the RV roof with bullets. Rick jumped from the roof, clutching the torso of a walker who was hanging from a nearby bridge. Below, the huddled zombie masses milled. In any other episode, this would have been the leading ewww! moment. But not here: Rick scrambled back inside the RV as Negan put down holding fire and, one more time, cheated death.But what was Negan trying to achieve? Back at the clearing, he explained. “The trip was about how you look at me,” he told Rick. “I want you to understand, but you still look at me in the same damn way.” What Negan needed was to break Rick. And so he asked his henchman, Simon, for a pen. Do henchmen even carry pens in post-zombie apocalypse torture scenarios? It seems unlikely.God of gore: the effects legend behind Reservoir Dogs and The Walking Dead spills his secrets Negan used the pen to mark Carl’s arm and invited – no, insisted – that Rick chop it off. Rick, finally, looked destroyed. “THAT is the look I wanted to see,” said Negan. Now Negan could set out his business proposition, telling Rick and the other survivors: “You answer to me. You provide for me. You belong to me. Right?” He could not be gainsaid. But at least Carl got to keep his arm.And then, in the new dawn of a terrible new world, Negan and the Saviours headed off. “We’ll be back for our first offering in one week. Until then? Ta-ta,” said Negan chirpily. Loved that camp coup de grace, the effete Limey farewell. But not before taking Daryl as a hostage. Why did Negan choose to seize everybody’s favourite crossbow-wielding cracker hottie? Because Daryl had hung one on Negan’s beak before being subdued by his goons. You gotta love that guy. Negan, though, threatened to cut pieces off him if the gang don’t come up with the goods.Then Maggie, still struggling with her pregnancy and now demented after witnessing her husband’s murder, threatened to go rogue. Dramatically, this was a poignant moment: the survivors gathered round her, renewing their solidarity, and talked her out this madness. Now was time to go home and lick their wounds. The fight, if there was to be one, would be on another day.Words of would-be wisdom“I’m going to kill you. Not today, not tomorrow. But I’m going to kill you.” Rick to Negan at the outset of the episode. In previous seasons such words would have had a stirring tenor; here they sounded for once like empty bluster.“You thought you were all gonna grow old together, sitting around the table at Sunday dinner, happily ever after. It doesn’t work like that, Rick. Not any more.” Negan explaining the new world order. Moments later, Rick imagined him and his friends blissfully sitting around an al fresco table at Alexandria, eating a meal, with Abraham still alive and Glenn dandling Maggie’s baby. The world, for sure, doesn’t work like that any more.“Welcome to a brand new beginning, you sorry shits.” Negan, whose momma, let’s hope, died in zombie-related circumstances rather than living to hear her crazed spawn’s vulgar rantings.