West of Dibden Purlieu, isolated from the invasive residential tendrils of the Waterside communities by the teeming bypass, the heathland of the New Forest spreads away almost unfettered. If you choose, as I often have, you can roam for a dozen miles without encountering more than a few minor roads.A few hundred metres from the village you are already in mature woodland – conifers planted in the 1960s are now being selectively felled, allowing the understorey of holly and birch to break upwards into the canopy. The fences around the plantation have gone now, the edges blurred – managed but no longer strictly linear. Dusty paths of sun-baked sand provide firm routes on into the heathland, some much widened since my last visit by the traffic from walkers seeking peace in the green lung of the forest.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Foxgloves on the edge of the conifer plantation above Dibden Bottom. Photograph: John GilbeyThe plateau gravel that underpins the desperately poor soil is largely bleached flint, washed down from the chalk hills to the north during the rapidly swinging climate of the interglacial periods. In places, extreme hydrological events have carved sinuous valleys into the sand and clay below. One such, Dibden Bottom, is a valley mire hosting interesting, dynamic communities of grass, sedge and moss. It is protected from human disturbance by the treacherous nature of the ground, and I have seen it crossed only once – during the drought of 1976 – and then only for a bet.A group of ponies drank at the edge of the dark, sandy pool where the valley drains. Above the wooden plank bridge, white tufts of bog cotton dotted the green of the mire. Beyond, the ancient woodland of the Noads framed towering clouds bubbling up in the southern sky, heavily humid air sending the sound of thunder rattling across the heath. Retracing my steps, I found on the forest edge a group of foxgloves at the peak of their flowering, with noisily competing bees warmed by the evening sun. As fat raindrops began to fall, I remembered the many friends I have shared this place with, happy that it is still here for others to enjoy.Follow Country diary on Twitter: @gdncountrydiary