“The company’s horse or automobile van will arrive early in the morning, and before evening all the carpets, upholstery, tapestry or silk panelling in any ordinary-sized house will be fresh, clean, and free from dust.” This splendid proposition by the British Vacuum Cleaner Company in 1903 was followed by a modest hint: “House-cleaning being thus deprived of its terrors, it is perhaps fair to assume that quarterly cleanings will take the place of annual ones, and houses will be thereby rendered infinitely more healthy and sanitary.”The new vacuum cleaning, which banished terror from the home, also provided entertainment in the street. The machine, painted bright red and looking like a fire-engine, was drawn up outside the house and hoses run in through the windows. So many dumbfounded onlookers used to collect that the police issued summonses to the company for obstruction. Even after the machine no longer attracted crowds, the company was still fined regularly for obstruction until a test case was taken to appeal and their right to work from the streets was upheld by the Lord Chief Justice. Judging by an article in “The Lady” of March 5, 1903, it is a wonder there were not summonses for nuisance as well as obstruction: “A long hose is fitted with a nozzle which travels rapidly over the carpet, absorbs all the dust, and discharges it into the street, where it pours out in a thick stream. This arrangement of disposing of the refuse seems scarcely satisfactory.” The writer, however, ended on a hopeful and poetic note: “Still, the scheme opens up decided possibilities. Dust, ‘the misty, grey veil of time,’ which is woven without ceasing in the ever-moving loom of the passing hours, accumulates in every house, in spite of all the efforts of brooms and brushes.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Booth’s original Red Trolley British Vacuum Cleaner, 1905. Photograph: Science & Society Picture Library via Getty ImagesThe misty, grey veil was, in the meantime, being analysed. The Clinical and Bacteriological Research Laboratory of University College, Bristol, reported that in one gramme of dust submitted by the vacuum cleaner company there were 355,585,200 organisms. The bacilli and streptococci isolated included Micrococcus Prodigiosus, an organism morphologically indistinguishable from the diphtheria bacillus. “The Lancet” published a report on the dust extracted from Marlborough House: and after an analysis of dust from the corridor carpets of the House of Commons, it was stated that “All leading medical authorities in the country are unanimous in their opinion that dust is the forerunner of Consumption.”The man responsible for raising all this dust in high places was Hubert Cecil Booth, a civil engineer, who designed the Great Wheels erected in Blackpool, Paris and Vienna. In 1901 Booth went to St Pancras Station to see an American demonstrate a machine for cleaning railway carriages: the dust was blown out of the upholstery on to the platform. “Why don’t you try suction?” asked Booth. “I have tried it, but it’s no use at all.” Booth returned to his office, damped his handkerchief and put it on the thick Turkey carpet. Then he lay down with his face on it and breathed in through his mouth. When he picked up the handkerchief it had a circle of dust and dirt on it.Within a few months he had a machine patented, and a dramatic early success was a panic call from the Ministry of Works: the great blue carpets laid in the Abbey for the Coronation of Edward VII were dusty from the carpentry work. A machine was rushed to the Cloister Quadrangle and suction hoses led in to the sacred edifice. After the Coronation there was a command demonstration before King Edward and Queen Alexandra; and later to the Emperor Wilhelm II, the Tsar Nicholas, and to President Fallières of France. The Sultan Abdul Hamid of Turkey bought a machine for his delighted harem. Booth’s original is at the South Kensington Science Museum alongside Stephenson’s Rocket.This is an edited extract, read the full article