The environmental campaigners and journalists detained on board the Greenpeace ship the Arctic Sunrise in September, and since charged by Russian authorities with hooliganism, are being moved from the Arctic port of Murmansk to Saint Petersburg.A lawyer for the so-called Arctic 30, Mikhail Kreindlin, confirmed on Friday evening that they had already left the pre-trial detention centre in Murmansk where they had been held since being taken off the Arctic Sunrise.The 28 Greenpeace activists and two freelance journalists were initially charged with piracy by Russian authorities, but this was later downgraded to "hooliganism as part of an organised group", a lesser charge which still carries a maximum penalty of seven years in jail. Investigators have said they may bring further charges of endangering the lives of officials against individual activists, and Greenpeace said on Friday that the piracy charges have still not formally been lifted. All 30 have had bail applications rejected by courts in Murmansk.A source in the Saint Petersburg prison service told Russian news agencies on Friday evening that the activists were not yet in the city. Kreindlin was uncertain exactly how the transfer was taking place, but said the most likely form of transport would be in a specially equipped prison service train carriage. The train journey from Murmansk to St Petersburg takes about 27 hours. It was not immediately clear why the activists were being moved."It could be due to all kinds of things," said Kreindlin. "It's very hard to tell. It could be a procedural move, or it could be an attempt to improve their conditions ahead of the visit to Russia of the Dutch king next week." The Arctic Sunrise sailed under a Dutch flag, and the Dutch government has appealed to the International Sea Law Tribunal, calling on Russia to release the activists. A hearing is due next week.A silent protest in support of Kieron Bryan, a freelance video journalist who is one of six Britons among the 30, will be held on Saturday afternoon outside the Russian embassy in London. The protesters will hand over a petition calling for Bryan's release signed by 1,400 journalists, including the editors of all major national British papers.The deputy Labour leader Harriet Harman, who is Bryan's local MP, said she would visit the detained journalist herself if the Russian authorities failed to issue a visa to his brother, Russell."I'm not going to stop raising this issue and pressuring the Russian authorities until Kieron is home," Harman told the Guardian. "It's a nightmare and if they won't give a visa for Russell, I shall ultimately ask for a visa myself to go and visit him. I don't think he should be left without seeing anybody except the consular officials from time to time and the lawyers."Harman wrote to the Russian ambassador in London on 10 October urging Bryan's release and to ask for a meeting. Although he replied 12 days later with a letter in which he said the Russian government understood and sympathised with the concerns of the detainees' families, he stressed the case was subject to due process - and did not respond to her request for a meeting.Harman added: "Every single day that goes by is another day that Kieron is facing a very uncertain future in detention. I think it's very bad that the Russian ambassador took so long to reply. But worse, he didn't even respond to my request to meet him."She also warned Moscow that the Commons was united in its condemnation of Russia's treatment of the detainees. While British MPs rarely intervened in the judicial processes of other countries, said Harman, they felt compelled to do so in this case."It is quite unusual to have a situation where MPs from all parties and all different parts of the country are saying, 'It's your criminal justice system but we don't think our citizens should be in it'," she said. "This concern is not a flash in the pan; it's not going to abate; it's only going to get stronger every day that Kieron is detained."The Greenpeace case has caused anger in many western capitals, and was raised with Russia's prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, by his French counterpart Jean-Marc Ayrault, in Moscow on a visit on Friday.Medvedev said he guaranteed that the case would be judged "in accordance with Russian laws", and that he could not support acts which endangered the environment or human life.The Arctic Sunrise was stormed by armed Russian coastguard officials in the Pechora Sea as activists attempted to board the Prirazlomnaya oil rig, an offshore platform operated by the Russian energy company Gazprom."These installations are like a powder keg," said Medvedev. "Even if they have the most noble intentions, nobody has the right to break the law around these places," he said, insisting that the Greenpeace protest could have had lethal consequences for workers on the oil rig.