In Lo and Behold, Reveries of the Connected World, Werner Herzog shines a light on the internet and the way it has transformed how we communicate, work, date and entertain ourselves. The documentary takes a tour of some of the world’s top laboratories exploring robotics, artificial intelligence and space travel while also digging into the dark underbelly of connectivity, including malicious hacking and trolling. Here’s what we learned.Lo and Behold: Reveries of the Connected World review – Herzog's wild ride through the web It’s very hard to make the inception of the internet sexy      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Not-so-immaculate conception: Dr Leonard Kleinrock explains the birth of the internet. Photograph: Photo courtesy of Magnolia PicturesThe film opens at the “birthplace of the internet”, in a nondescript corridor at UCLA. There, in 1969, a team led by computer science professor Leonard Kleinrock sent the very first message – the word Lo – over the Arpanet, a computer network that would later become the internet. Despite rousing music and dramatic storytelling from Kleinrock, it is strikingly apparent that there is nothing sexy about the first node of the internet: a fridge-sized machine called the Internet Message Processor. Kleinrock tries to inject some pizzazz, describing the machine’s innards as having a “delicious old odour”. Things don’t improve when the film-maker cuts to a shot of the International Space Station (because space is always sexy) as a bit of light relief from the monotony of server farms, chalk-scrawled equations and old white guys talking about the underlying principles of the network.Humans are the weakest link in security      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Not so far-fetched: Rami Malek in hacker drama Mr Robot. Photograph: USA Network/Getty ImagesThere’s a lot of fearmongering about the internet, but one of the most engaging and enlightening interviews within the documentary is with Kevin Mitnick, a notorious hacker who broke into the networks of companies such as IBM, Nokia and Motorola. Brimming with pride, he describes the cat-and-mouse game he played with the FBI and the social engineering he used to crack Motorola. This involved calling an employee at the company to convince her to send him the source code for a new cellphone. He relied on the gift of the gab to pull off the heist rather than code wizardry. Mitnick explains that it doesn’t matter how much money a company spends on firewalls, antivirus and other intrusion prevention systems: humans are always the weakest link in security. “People, not the technology,” he insists. The hounding of Gabby Douglas: an unworthy end for a great American champion Elsewhere in the film, it’s the technology that’s the villain. There’s a gut-wrenching account of the harassment of the Catsouras family, whose daughter Nikki was killed in a car crash. Trolls anonymously emailed graphic photos of Nikki’s body at the scene of the accident to her father, Christos. Her mother Lesli blames the internet itself, describing it as the “manifestation of the antichrist”.If the internet goes down you could join Elon Musk on Mars      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Get your ass to Mars … just maybe not with Elon Musk. Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesIf a solar flare takes out satellites and power, it won’t just be cat videos we’ll miss. The internet is now so fundamental to our food supply chain, financial system and transportation network that “modern civilisation would collapse” and the world would become “unimaginably ugly and difficult”, in the words of cosmologist Lawrence Krauss. There is an escape plan: Elon Musk wants to colonize Mars. But after seeing him interviewed in Lo and Behold, you might think twice about taking him up on the offer. When Herzog asks him what he dreams about, there’s a long pause where his eyes dart from left to right as he apparently defragments his hard drive before revealing that he only remembers his nightmares. Later, he reveals a Bond-villain-esque plan for an artificially intelligent hedge fund that would short consumer stocks, buy long on defence stocks and then start a war. “And that would obviously be quite bad,” he says, with all the emotion of a vacuum cleaner.We’re a long way off from a Terminator/Skynet scenario      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hasta la vista: a Terminator. Photograph: Melinda Sue Gordon/APThere’s a charming array of robots showcased throughout the film, including a team of football-playing bots; self-driving cars; and a rescue droid called Chimp. The latter, we are told, could have used its gripper to open a valve and prevent an explosion at the Fukushima nuclear power plant. Later, there’s a philosophical discussion about us needing to more clearly define what it means to be human so we can encode ethics into robots and artificial intelligence as they start making decisions on our behalf. There’s an accompanying shot of Honda’s Asimo robot, a startlingly cute humanoid that is seen serving a drink to a female companion. But there are some downsides: it takes half a day to set up, requires two people to control it and has a battery that lasts around an hour. It also has a tough time dealing with stairs.Telepathic Tinder is going to be extremely awkward      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Swipe right? Tinder. Photograph: Jonathan Brady/PAThe most terrifying moment in the film is the showcasing of a system that uses an MRI scanner to essentially read a person’s thoughts, regardless of which language they speak. The scanning data is combined with software that maps patterns of electrical activity in the brain to specific concepts. While the system is currently fairly crude and reliant on massive specialised equipment, in the future it’s likely we’ll have lightweight personal brain activity monitors. This opens the possibility for brain-to-brain wireless communication – ie telepathy. (“You could essentially, in the not too distant future, tweet thoughts,” says neuroscientist Marcel Just.) Herzog has something else on his mind: “Could you detect this woman who is passing by and spots you is just about to fall in love with you?” he asks. “Now that would be the killer application,” replies Just’s colleague, computer scientist Tom Mitchell. The prospect of a telepathic Tinder, where our unedited thoughts are broadcast to prospective suitors, is utterly dreadful and not too far away.Lo and Behold, Reveries of the Connected World is out in the US from 19 August, and available on demand