“When I heard Heartbreak Hotel, I knew what I wanted to do in life. It was as plain as day,” Keith Richards once said. “All I wanted to do in the world was to be able to play and sound like that. Everyone else wanted to be Elvis, I wanted to be Scotty.”Scotty Moore, guitarist on Elvis's early hits, dies aged 84 The Scotty in question was Scotty Moore, Elvis Presley’s guitarist, who died this week in Nashville, aged 84. Despite occasional solo forays, and the veneration of artists such as Richards, Bruce Springsteen and Jeff Beck, Moore’s name was not as widely recognised as it ought to have been. Yet as much as Presley shaped rock’n’roll and our notion of a singing star, Moore transformed the role of the guitarist – through his particular, sunlit style of playing, and also by changing what it meant to be a lead guitarist in a band.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a 1956 live recording of Heartbreak HotelMoore moved from Gadsden, Tennessee, to Memphis in the early 1950s with the bassist Bill Black, playing then in Doug Poindexter’s Starlite Wranglers. The band cut a record at Sun Studios in 1954, where Moore befriended Sun’s owner, Sam Phillips, stopping by the studios for coffee when he clocked off from his job at a dry cleaning plant. Through this friendship, Moore was introduced to Presley, and he and Black were invited in to record with the young singer. Legend holds that the session had been sluggish until Presley started “acting the fool” off-tape, singing a version of Arthur Crudup’s blues song That’s Alright. Black and Moore joined in and Phillips pressed a record. There the chaos began.When you listen to Moore’s playing with Presley – across tracks such as Heartbreak Hotel, Hound Dog, Blue Suede Shoes, Mystery Train, Jailhouse Rock and beyond – you notice the ingenuity of his style. In the Starlite Wranglers, a band with a hillbilly flavour, a fiddle and steel guitar, his playing owed much to his adoration of the country star Chet Atkins. Like Atkins, and Merle Travis before him, Moore played in a fingerpicking style on his Gibson, using a thumbpick and relying chiefly on his thumb and first two fingers.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Moore, second from right, with Elvis Presley on the set of Jailhouse Rock. Photograph: Michael Ochs Archives/Getty ImagesBut when he started recording with Presley, his style began to change – he described much of his work as “filling in holes” – a little pinch of country style, a dollop of the blues, and all of the licks he knew would satisfy Phillips’ desire for “something different”. He also brought in the Ray Butts EchoSonic (also used by Chet Atkins), a guitar amplifier with tape echo built in to deliver a slapback echo sound. It was through Moore that the distinctive country-blues rockabilly style emerged – a sound that falls sharp and sour at times, with a kind of iridescence. It spoke of something new: of gasoline and dancing and youth.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Moore live with Elvis in Tupelo in 1956Even as rock’n’roll bloomed, lead instrumentalists were often the singer, too – Little Richard, for instance, or Jerry Lee Lewis or Chuck Berry. In Presley’s setup, the singer played rhythm guitar, and Moore took the lead, as part of the backing band the Blue Moon Boys (along with Black and drummer DJ Fontana). It’s hard to fully explain the impact of this, except to say that the role of the lead guitarist and their relationship with the singer in many major rock bands since simply would not have been the same without Moore.Read any interview with Moore and you’ll be struck by the man’s unassuming air; he made no claim to greatness or invention when he spoke of those early days with Presley, rather he seemed to suggest that the distinctive sound they created was born of spontaneous joy. He earned little money, carried his own guitar and amp to every show and he claims to have never once broke a string on stage. Even his 1964 solo record was named The Guitar That Changed the World, diverting attention to the guitar – a Gibson Super 400 – not the man.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Elvis and co on The Milton Berle Show in 1956Yet there was an undeniable magic to Moore’s playing, to the gumption of his thought, the dexterity of his fingers. Keith Richards has spoken many times of how he is always foxed by Moore’s guitar lick on I’m Left, You’re Right, She’s Gone. “I think it’s in E major,” he wrote in his autobiography, Life. “He has a rundown when it hits the five chord, the B down to the A down to the E, which is like a yodelling sort of thing, which I’ve never been quite able to figure … Every time I see him, it’s ‘Learnt that lick yet?’” As Moore tells it, he was doing nothing much special, nothing more than “filling in holes”. But the hole Scotty Moore leaves is a great one, a space that can never be filled.