I took an early morning stroll through the Olympic Park in east London with the intention of going to hear the dawn chorus, but predictably I got distracted by the flora. The wonderful planting done by Nigel Dunnett et al four years ago still works, and that in part is due to the wildlife that treats it as home. I walked through flocks of goldfinches and starlings and watched mistle thrushes warble and wrens gobble berries. The bees were just getting going as the sun warmed up; it’s a rich landscape for foraging.One of the beds that worked particularly well was a simple combination of Origanum laevigatum ‘Herrenhausen’ and Deschampsia cespitosa ‘Goldtau’. The deschampsia flowerheads wafted about in the early morning sun and the oregano flopped about in all its pink glory. It was a delightful bed, not wide, just running alongside the path: simple, wildlife-friendly and arresting. It would make a good combination for a front garden bathed in sun with poor soil or alongside a gravel drive. Even once the long-flowering ‘Herrenhausen’ is over, the seedheads will hold their own. Between now and then the whole thing will be crowned in butterflies and bees.These are nectar-rich flowers that are highly pollinator-friendly, particularly for butterflies. An alternative variety is the daintier, decidedly pinker O. laevigatum ‘Hopleys’ . Another combination that would work is O. ‘Rosenkuppel’, with purple-flushed, wine-coloured flowers, and the tufted fescue Festuca amethystina, which has purple flowerheads in early summer that ripen to summer blond as the season progresses.Want ornamental plants for shady spots? Try these | Alys Fowler None of these origanums is edible, sadly. The leaves are aromatic and on a hot day you’ll smell them, but they amount to nothing in the kitchen. If you want to grow oregano for cooking, get hold of either straight O. vulgare, aka marjoram or Greek oregano, or O. vulgare subsp hirtum, which packs a much more significant punch. The latter is not that easy to find as a plant, so you may have to start it from seed. It will need a sheltered position over winter and resents terribly sitting in wet soil or shade. Sow from late winter to spring in seed compost, perhaps with some extra grit to improve drainage, at 10-13C, then keep the seedlings somewhere frost-free. Germination should take about two weeks.If you’re feeling adventurous, try growing Syrian oregano (O. syriacum), the hyssop of the Bible and the key ingredient in za’atar. Again, you’ll have to start it from seed over winter and keep it somewhere frost-free and sunny, as it is tender. It works well in a pot and the leaves are deliciously pungent – a mixture of thyme and oregano.