On the shouty, competitive platform of the Edinburgh fringe, shows have to be able to sell themselves on two lines of clever copy and a winning idea. Before the reviews and the word of mouth spreads, it’s the sales pitch that counts. On paper, Blushed has one of the best – describing itself as a tap-dancing double act in which two woman wisecrack their way through an alternative world of adult fairytales.Edinburgh festival planner: three shows to see today Blushed is the creation of Hannah Ballard and Lexi Bradburn, members of the all-female company, Sole Rebel Tap. Their inspiration is The Red Shoes, Han Christian Andersen’s fable about a young woman who is forced to dance herself to death for taking too giddy a pleasure in her new shoes. And as Ballard and Bradburn talk, tap and mime their own satiric interpretation of Andersen, they find rich seams of comedy and rudeness. There are transgressive riffs on what it would mean to really lust after shoes, the two dancers fondling, kissing, even licking their own pairs of scarlet tap shoes with lingering appreciation; they change tack into a righteous complaint about Andersen’s brutally punitive attitude towards women who are just a little bit better, more ambitious, than they ought to be.Ballard and Bradburn are also funny and smart about other fairytale heroines and other fairytale shoes. They imagine Cinderella losing her glass slipper on a walk of shame home from the Royal Palace, having spent the night with Prince Charming and discovered he was an over-entitled Klutz with little sexual finesse. They imagine the awful disappointment of the Little Mermaid, who, having endured agonising self-mutilation for the sake of having human legs and feet (and shoes), finds that women have far less fun than mermaids.Blushed is essentially a tap show, despite the storytelling, and its choreography is deftly folded into the verbal comedy; the women’s footwork sometimes forming a brisk, percussive counterpoint to the words, sometimes developing into extended routines ( a competitive double act for Cinderella’s ugly sisters, a hapless love duet for the Little Mermaid and her prince). A rocking soundtrack – including covers of I’ve Put a Spell on You and Little Red Corvette – ramps the energy up to reliably enjoyable levels.While Blushed has the seed of an original and sparky idea, it needs more crafting. The script and especially the jokes require a much sharper pen – Ballard and Bradburn rely too much on ironic winking chumminess to force their laughs. A better writer would also have teased out more of the connecting themes between stories: the recurring images of shoes, wayward women and the wicked colour of red.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Childhood as EU metaphorWhile Blushed could be wonderfully improved with a little more work and thought, the problem with And Now… ‚ by the Scottish dance theatre company Plan B, is that the ideas far outweigh the wit.This is a piece about growing up, and it’s focused on four “children” ( performed by young adults) whose innocent nursery games reveal the strategies and ambitions by which they mature. The stage is lively, with a scattering of mismatched furniture against which the characters measure themselves; feeling large and powerful as they play with a dolls’ house rocking chair, dwarfed into scared insignificance by a 10ft dining chair. A lone musician – saxophonist Steve Kettley – roams between the four characters, playing live accompaniment to their dancing.Yet as the dancers’ games of balance and tag evolve into extended dance ensembles, as each one takes the microphone to talk about how they imagine themselves as adults, none of these characters come into individual focus. The choreography is very generic, a flow of spinning, ducking, rolling moves that vary little from character to character. And the spoken monologues are bland: the girl who wants to marry a prince and the boy who wants to be rich seem merely to illustrate the point that the things we might want for ourselves when we are small might not turn out to be wise.But during this (very) long 60-minute piece, it becomes obvious that the point of the material isn’t really to engage us with stories and quirks of its four children. Reading the programme note, it’s clear that director Frank McConnell has conceived the work primarily as a vehicle for airing issues around national identity and ambition that have been generated during the last two years of debate over Scottish independence and the EU. These questions have dominated the fringe this year, but they don’t bring any real wit or power to And Now… The metaphorical relationship between maturing children and maturing nations is too forced and theoretical. It gives too much of the material on stage the dutifully plodding air of a lesson plan.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Male desire … Lïnger. Photograph: Maria FalconerPushing Irish danceThere are a lot of ideas feeding into Lïnger, a duet choreographed by the former Riverdance principal Breandán de Gallaí and performed with Nick O’Connell, a dancer 16 years his junior. According to De Gallaí’s programme note, the work is a meditation on ageing, masculinity and the nature of male desire, and it comes fascinatingly couched within the paradoxical language of Irish dance – a form so tightly and brightly articulate in its percussive footwork, but ramrod-stiff in its upper body and arms.At first, Lïnger plays with subverting the conventions of the form, as the two men, barefoot and dressed only in plain black trunks, swing their bodies freely as they dance and hunker down low on their feet. We’re acutely conscious of the difference in their bodies when they move in unison together, O’Connell lean and light, De Gallaí thickening around the waist. We’re conscious, too, of the crosscurrents of competitiveness and mutual attraction that flicker between them. As the men progress into wearing traditional waistcoats and shoes, their movements conform more closely to the familiar lines of Irish dance. The work climaxes with a startlingly virtuoso duet in which the form’s lilting jumps and tightknit footwork are concentrated into the tense, erotic embrace of tango – a dance that famously fuses ceremony with desire.There are elements in Lïnger that appear naive: the expressive language of the two men veers from poker-faced rigidity to fierce yearning without much nuance in between. The format of the duet is sometimes muddled; the sequences of projected film, the artist who sketches the dancers as they move, do not earn their stage time. But De Gallaí is pushing and playing with his inherited language in ways I’ve never seen before in Irish dance, and in the process exposing aspects of himself and his dance career with a seriousness that feels both tender and brave.The narcissist and the scepticIf De Gallaí and O’Connell are battling with the long tradition of masculine repression in Irish dance, Rhiannon Faith and Maddy Morgan reveal every last emotional detail in their funny, foul-mouthed, inventive and sometimes profoundly annoying duet, Scary Shit.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Raucous hijinks … Scary Shit. Photograph: Tina RemizThe work – which is part dance, part confessional, part surreal playtime – is based on the therapy sessions the two women have undergone in order to get over their deepest fears. Stuff about boyfriends, babies and body phobias all spills out: Faith, in silver Lurex and pink fun fur is a both diminutive disco diva and needy narcissist, deeply in thrall to the whole confessional process; Morgan in black, is far more sceptical, satirical and reserved.Some of the material on which they touch feels disturbingly intimate: Faith’s panic storms, Morgan’s intimation that she may be unable to have children. In some of the material, the women deflect their pain into jiving dance routines, crude sexual jokes, or self-parodying routines in which Faith’s “emotional sharing” escalate into arias of melodramatic hysteria.The quality varies wildly, however. There is lively wit in the mad, pink props that clutter the stage and in the neatly crafted dancing ( I like the solo where the secretive Morgan literally ties herself up in knots). But the cock and fanny jokes are more shrilly attention-seeking than bawdy. The piece reaches into its most interesting territory during the sections where Morgan remains most rigidly non-communicative, refusing to act out her fears on stage, or to share them with Faith.Faith’s own subsequent embarrassment at hogging the therapeutic limelight is proportionately revealing. And while this is all scripted theatre, the uneasy, dysfunctional dynamic that develops on stage between the exhibitionist Faith and the introvert Morgan seems to breach the wall of performance into something real. Compared to the raucous hijinks and provocative confessions, this is the shit that feels most genuinely scary.