It is set to be a gilded year for Ray Davies, with a knighthood and his first new album in nine years to look forward to. His baby brother Dave, who turns 70 today, will be used to looking on and applauding from the sidelines. He may have helped to spawn heavy metal – with that riff on You Really Got Me, played through his busted-up amp – but Dave has always played the kid brother, his joie de vivre and cheerily high speaking voice in stark contrast to Ray’s brooding, penny-pinching cynicism.Five decades ago, when Dave launched a solo career, things looked like they were going to end up rather differently. Ray had married young and settled down in 1964, just as the Kinks were enjoying their first run of hits. Dave was only 17 when You Really Got Me reached No 1 and tore through the London club scene, drinking everyone under the table and being pawed and petted by dozens of young lovelies.Three years later, hungover and knackered, he sat at his mum’s piano in Muswell Hill and wrote a song that sounded like a rehearsal for retirement: “The lion tamer’s whip doesn’t crack any more, the lions they won’t fight and the tigers won’t roar.” Death of a Clown was sung in an impossibly weary voice. The chorus was helped by an ethereal wordless melody sung by Ray’s wife, Rasa, drenched in echo and representing the distant dolly birds Dave was slipping away from as he lay on the floor of his dressing room, “drowning my sorrows in whisky and gin.” To Dave’s delight, the Kinks’ management persuaded Pye to release it as a solo single; Death of a Clown reached No 3 in the high summer of 1967, scowling at the flowery pairing above it, Scott Mackenzie’s San Francisco and the Beatles’ All You Need Is Love.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Clowning around … the Kinks in 1968. Photograph: Hulton Archive/Getty ImagesAs the debut solo single by a band member emerging from the shadow of a famous singer, Death of a Clown didn’t have the liberated verve of, say, Robbie Williams’ cover of Freedom. But he absolutely looked the part, an ultimate pop dandy, appearing on Top of the Pops in a gold-braided, Charles II coat he found in Berman’s, the theatrical costumiers. He followed it with the pounding Susannah’s Still Alive, a close cousin to Bob Dylan’s Can You Please Crawl Out Your Window, based around a crunching bass and piano hook. This time Dave appeared on TOTP in a leather jacket, the undoubted star of a show that also featured the Scaffold’s novelty hit Thank U Very Much, Des O’Connor’s Careless Hands and Petula Clark’s beyond-prim The Other Man’s Grass. Ray Davies had nailed the brothers’ relationship earlier that year with the harpsichord-led vignette Two Sisters; now he watched from backstage with a mixture of pride and jealousy, half-expecting his brother to leave the Kinks and become a star.What went wrong? Pye – the cheapest and most short-sighted of the UK’s major labels in the 60s – hassled Dave to record a solo album in a studio that he recalled “was more like someone’s front room”. He felt used, and gave up halfway through the sessions. Then came a third single, Lincoln County, which was an oddly bouncy country affair, hardly what people were looking for in 1968, and closer to the Wurzels than the Band. It flopped, as did the Kinks’ single Wonderboy.To Dave’s chagrin, this meant he could no longer walk into his favoured Carnaby Street boutique and be gifted the garments of his choosing – “Come back when you have a hit” sneered the owner, which led Dave to trash the place before storming out. (This destructive streak was a recurring theme for Dave in the 60s. A hotel in Taunton refused to serve him and Gerry Marsden after hours, so they took a ceremonial axe that was hanging on the wall and reduced the reception desk to matchsticks.)Released a good eight months later, the rolling and relaxed Hold My Hand was a great improvement on Lincoln County, and Dave was invited to sing it on German TV show Beat Club. The producer asked him to walk down a spiral staircase to where a girl would be waiting and – you guessed it – they would hold hands. Dave destroyed these plans by getting hammered backstage with a friend and two buxom blondes, smoking the strongest hash he had ever encountered. The staircase plan had to be abandoned and Dave sang the song sat on a stool, barely capable of opening his mouth, as technicians and cameramen hissed at him and he prayed he wouldn’t fall off. Hold My Hand was another flop. He returned to London where Ray was writing the peerless concept album, Arthur. A year later came Lola, and all thoughts of Dave Davies, solo star, were shelved. You get the feeling he was quietly relieved.