When I started volunteering for Age UK’s older men’s cookery course two years ago, I thought I would just be passing on some of my cooking skills to men who had never learned how to cook. I’ve always cooked for my family and enjoy baking and thought this might be a way of giving something back. Little did I know that these men would be picking up so much more than a few kitchen skills.There was one man in particular, Fred, whose wife had died three months previously. Fred’s doctor had encouraged him to get out more because he was feeling isolated and missing his wife, and because Fred’s wife had done all the cooking, the doctor suggested attending one of our cookery classes. I think it took a lot for him to give it a go. I wear a badge that says: if you have dementia I'm your friend The sessions were always lively – with lots of banter and discussion about sport, politics, the news and so on – but Fred was very quiet at first. He got on with his chopping, but kept himself to himself. However, when we were eating what we had cooked at the end of one session, Fred began to open up.He told me he hadn’t cooked or eaten a meal at home since his wife died and relied on takeaways out of the house or lunch at the British Legion. He said his wife had been a great cook and she had left a freezer full of homemade food but he couldn’t face eating it. He said it was like a part of her was still around and it felt wrong. I suggested to Fred that maybe he could eat the food his wife had left with something he had prepared in class. I told him it would be like having a celebration with his wife. So he took his leftovers home and something must have clicked with him because next week he came back and said he’d been able to eat at home, not the food his wife had left him, but food from the class. This was a huge breakthrough – and I am sure it allowed him to start to move on with his life. He did eventually eat a few of the meals that his wife had left, he told me, but the main thing was that he was able to eat at home again.It was a joy to see the this man change from being reserved to becoming his natural, chatty self. After a few sessions I overheard him talking to another man who had lost his wife a year before. Neither was a man who was used to talking about his feelings – so it was great to see that they were able to share their experiences.It has given me huge pleasure to see friendships form over the two years I have been volunteering for the cookery classes. Many of the men even meet up outside the sessions for coffee or to go to the cinema. Above all, I’ve seen men open up in a way that has surprised me. Maybe there’s something in this chopping and chatting.Fred is a pseudonym and other identifying features have been changed.The day I made a difference is the Guardian Voluntary Sector Network’s series that showcases the work of people involved with charities. If you have a story you want to share email voluntarysectornetwork@theguardian.com with a short summary of your experience.