Technology is without doubt revolutionising healthcare, with the most obvious example being the ease with which we can Google symptoms and convince ourselves we are at death’s door.There is, however, health tech far more sophisticated than typing symptoms into search bars. Self-testing genetics kits can inform us of our risk of common conditions and likelihood of going bald; wearables can measure our heart rate and remind us to move; virtual interviewers can detect depression; and smartphone apps can help people with conditions such as autism live independently.Eight technologies that could change healthcare beyond recognition On an individual level these technologies provide new ways of preventing, detecting and treating illness, and on a societal level they can provide a wealth of data and insights. Umotif, for example, is seeking to track the health of 100,000 people to develop a better understanding of Parkinson’s disease. Technology presents huge opportunities for our health and care system, but also challenges. Are we moving further away from the human touch, and could we be getting diagnoses in isolation without the relevant support? How do we know which apps to trust? And are we undermining health professionals? Join the discussionJoin a panel of experts on Monday 25 April 12-1pm BST in the comments section on this page to explore how technology is changing healthcare. Points for discussion will include:The rise of patient powered healthcare (through wearables, new self-testing kits etc).The way big data could revolutionise healthcare.Can technology help ease the pressure on the NHS, for example by freeing up doctor time, preventing unnecessary visits, making processes more efficient?What are the drawbacks to technology?Will mobile health apps make GPs redundant? PanelMatteo Berlucchi, chief executive of digital medical service Your.MDJulie Bretland, director and CEO, Our Mobile HealthDavid Furniss, vice-president, global government and health, BTRashmi Narayan, clinical director, uMotifSeemit Dhage, clinical lead and principal (consulting), Philips HealthTech, UK and IrelandJunaid Bajwa, director of healthcare services, Merck (MSD)Leave a question nowYou can submit questions for the panel in advance using the form below or tweeting them to @GuardianSustBiz using #askGSB.Loading...