Can business become a force for good? Even the question sounds like a suspect PR strategy, such is the depth of distrust of business. In the aftermath of the financial crisis there is soul-searching and this offers a golden opportunity for a different path. For some in the business world the remedy is minor course correction. They know that capitalism needs customers, and if to continue to make money business now has to factor in more social and environmental costs, then so be it. But there are also people who see that the problem goes deeper. They look at the way the market economy has developed over the last 25 to 30 years and see the obsession with subordinating all other aims to the sole goal of maximising profits as deeply warped. They know it has ended up exploiting people and society rather than serving them.Over the past couple of years a group from business and society have been working on a distinctive approach to this. Called a Blueprint for Better Business, it offers a way for businesses to renew and regain a sense of social purpose. The key question is why a business exists. The point this group focused on is that the true purpose of business is to solve problems and meet social needs. Profit is the result. Profit is not the purpose.If you go back to the 1950s this is how most business leaders thought and acted. The obsession with maximising shareholder value as the purpose of business is a recent, and deeply damaging aberration. It changes organisations, and it has skewed human motivation to focus unhealthily on status and material reward.Blueprint for Better Business, which draws on learnings from faith traditions and philosophy and then shapes these into an actionable framework with leading UK multinationals, has come up with five principles of a purpose driven business. The core of it is that a business must have a purpose that delivers long-term sustainable performance. That purpose – the ‘why’ – has to meet two societal tests: respect for human dignity and serving the common good. It is through developing products and services that are true to this purpose that the business delivers a fair return to investors. There is no trade off between purpose and profit, and no outsourcing of social purpose to CSR programmes. The identity and core purpose of the whole business is clear and directs everything the business does.But to deliver such a purpose requires people to bring the best of themselves to work. It needs both competence and character. It needs people at the top who care about others and enthuse the whole business by the quality of relationships they instil. It taps into the potential of people. It is both an axiom of many faith traditions and philosophy, and also increasingly evidenced through behavioural economics, neuroscience and positive psychology, that to be human is to be more than simply self-interested. We have a deep need for relationships with others, and there are common goods that only come into being through the commitments that people make to each other. Furthermore, we also yearn for meaning and fulfilment at work. The energy and creativity that fosters and encourages innovation often comes from the desire for joy and fulfilment in making a positive difference to the world.It is a paradox that we have ended up in our society with a lot of very talented people who shy away from the private sector because they think it is about making money with no meaning. And sometimes it is. But the deep desire to make a positive difference comes out in the amazing number of young people starting social enterprises and seeking to make a reasonable living through a purpose that serves society.Many are convinced that now there is a true opportunity to reframe the place of business in society. This Thursday there will be a call to action based on the Blueprint’s five principles of a purpose driven business. It’s a movement and it’s free. And to those who say business cannot change, my question is “why not?”.  Charles Wookey is Acting CEO of Blueprint for Better Business and  works part time as an assistant general secretary of the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of England and Wales. stories like this: Six strategies for creating system change for a sustainable futureHappiness and wellbeing trump material growthChallenging the old narrative that possessions equal prosperityJoin the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox