At a recital for press and music industry figures last week in London, Alma Deutscher played, and talked about, passages from her own compositions for piano and violin as well as singing a couple of arias from her opera version of Cinderella. Deutscher is in demand as both a performer and speaker, participating at last year’s Google’s Zeitgeist conference alongside Stephen Hawking, Nobel prize-winning economist Paul Krugman and chancellor George Osborne. She has a polished stage presence that combines splendid playing, dry humour – “I don’t seem to have an orchestra with me at the moment so you’ll have to imagine” – and a willingness to throw in the odd party trick, such as when she picks four random notes out of a hat and then uses them to improvise a bravura finale to the evening.This would all be impressive from any young musician starting off in the business, but for a 10-year-old ... ? When we meet a few days before her concert, Deutscher is unfazed by the prospect of playing in public. “I never get nervous on stage, as I’m just happy that people want to come and listen to my music,” she straightforwardly announces. “When I play, I am in control, I know what I’m doing and so I don’t see what there is to be nervous about.” Quite.Mozart at 250: how to explain a 10-year-old talent for all time Deutscher lives in Surrey with her parents and younger sister, Helen. Meeting her in this setting – outside, there is a large garden to play in, inside, a Steinway piano overlooked by a portrait of Mozart’s sister, Nannerl – her conversation veers between excited stories about sleeping the night in their treehouse and detailed explanation of how her piano concerto is structured. Both parents are amateur musicians. In one sense they have become used to her remarkable facility, “so it is difficult to recreate that sense of constant wonder we first had,” says her father, Guy, “but every now and then something new or amazing still happens.”The notion of the prodigy is a problematic one for the music industry. Almost every professional musician has had to be very good from a very young age: it is not a business for late starters. But from Mozart on, child prodigies have attracted awed attention from the general public, renowned as much for the horror stories of burnout that can surround them as for their gifts.Deutscher first came to prominence in late 2012 when Stephen Fry, a family acquaintance, saw her performing on YouTube and declared to his 10 million Twitter followers that she was “simply mind-blowing”, before speculating, “A new Mozart?” Deutscher herself thinks not. “I’m very to different him,” she insists (she has read a biography of Mozart along with those of many other composers). “He had to travel around between the courts and nobles and dukes. I don’t do that.” Her parents concede that while Fry’s comment was said “with the best intentions” it might have been easier if it had “been a different formulation. The danger is that you reach the age of 17 and think that you haven’t written history’s most amazing masterpieces so you are a failure, which is of course absurd.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch CinderellaBut the fact that the comparison was taken seriously – the national press were on her doorstep following Fry’s tweet looking for “Little Miss Mozart” – is a pointer to her potential. Born in Oxford in 2005, Deutscher could pick out a tune on a keyboard by the age of two: “I wanted to get the hang of it and remember playing ‘Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star’ with one finger. I was then given a violin for my third birthday. My father thought it would be a toy that I would throw away after half a day, but I really tried to play it.”Since then, she has met, and played to, a roll call of music greats including pianist Murray Perahia, conductor Zubin Mehta and violinist Anne-Sophie Mutter, once a noted prodigy herself. Last week she had a meeting with Simon Rattle (discovered at 17), which she prepared for by swotting up on a score of Debussy’s Pelléas and Mélisande and after which Rattle declared himself to be “absolutely bowled over”. She has performed in Europe, North and South America, Israel and Japan.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   In the swing of it … Alma Deutscher at the age of sevenWhile Deutscher is an exceptional pianist and violinist, there are other children of her age with comparable talent. It is as a composer that she is unusually gifted. She remembers hearing a Strauss lullaby when she was three – she hums the refrain – “and I asked my parents how music can be so beautiful”. By the time she was four she was dictating music to her father; she learned how to notate at five. “When I started I didn’t know it was called composing. I just had these melodies in my head. Everyone thought they were music from other people that I wasn’t quite remembering correctly, but it turned out that they were all mine.”At six there was a piano sonata; at seven a short opera based on a Neil Gaiman story for a competition. Pieces for violin, piano, viola and chamber ensemble followed. Two years ago she wrote a violin concerto and her first symphonic piece, and last year her opera version of Cinderella was premiered. The music is memorably pretty, drawing heavily on the simplicity and immediacy of the 18th-century galant style. And Deutscher has cleverly tweaked the story to make Cinderella a composer – “a bit like me” – and the prince a poet. Cinderella sets one of his poems to music and sings it at the ball, leaving before midnight. The prince then searches the kingdom not for a foot to fit a glass slipper, but for the melody he heard but can’t quite remember. “I thought the prince having to ask whose foot would fit the slipper doesn’t make much sense,” she logically explains. “Lots of people might have the same sized foot, but only one person could have written that melody.”Deutscher takes lessons via Skype from teachers around the world, and for the last few years she has attended a musical summer camp in Salzburg organised by the Vienna Philharmonic. But other aspects of her practice are less conventional, and more childlike, such as the elaborate imaginary mitteleuropean–esque world she has conjured with its “wonderful court orchestra”, language “a bit like German” and composers – “Yellowsink is a sort of Schubert Romantic, and Schell, she is more like Mozart” – whose work she both makes and takes in. She says Yellowsink composed the main melody of her Cinderella opera. Deutscher also makes imaginative use of a favourite skipping rope which she waves around in the garden “while I tell stories in my mind and if the story is about music then sometimes a new melody comes into my head”.Both Alma and Helen are home-schooled, “not for any ideological reason,” explains her father, “we twice deferred a place at a very good state school for Alma as we just weren’t sure of what was for the best.” They both meet up with other home-schooled children in the area for activities, such as ballet, swimming, the park and gym. While she is far ahead of the typical 10-year-old in terms of music, he acknowledges, in other respects she is having a more “childish childhood than many children. If she was at school she would be more affected by social pressures, but here she can wander around and play with her skipping rope for two hours if she wants. She is allowed to be as much a child as she wants to be.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Alma Deutscher performs the third movement of her Violin ConcertoHer parents are well aware of the problems that can face some prodigies. “We do sometimes worry whether we are doing the right things. In 20 years, maybe we will say we could have done things better, maybe she will say it. But the fact that she is such a very happy child makes us think that we aren’t doing something terrible. Perhaps she will decide to do something completely different. But I don’t think she’d ever say she was forced to do this.”In terms of managing her career, the family initially dealt with every invitation themselves, but last year, they were taken on by Martin Campbell-White, doyen of music managers who discovered Rattle, on a pro-bono basis. “I just thought there was something very special about her,” says Campbell-White, “and this sounds very arrogant, but I felt I needed to give advice to the parents.” He says his strength is that “everyone will listen to me, once. And if I back her they’ll listen to her, too.” He has made contacts with orchestras and opera houses across Europe, and there is talk of a full-scale production of Cinderella. There is much amazement at Deutscher’s poise and skill, but the thing people are most interested in is what comes next At the London recital there was much amazement at Deutscher’s poise and skill, but the thing people were most interested in was what comes next. At the moment her tastes are quite conservative in that she is not a fan of contemporary classical music – “when the harmony is very clashing I just don’t like it” – and has no interest, or knowledge of pop music to the degree that she has never even heard of One Direction. “She is currently showing her genius and creativity within the realm that she knows,” says Campbell-White. “What is exciting is that she will discover a wider world, and I hope what she displays now will not be the same as what she displays when she is 15. The next few years are very important and opening doors for her, slowly, will be the responsibility for me, but above all for her parents.”Guy says they have stopped planning much more than three months in advance because they have so often in the past been overtaken by events, and Alma says she has plenty to keep her busy. “Lots people say I should choose between violin and piano, but for now I can do both so I will. And of course I certainly want to be a composer.” She is writing an impromptu, “like the Schubert impromptu”, and wants to write a ballet and another opera. “And I have other things to do. At the moment I’m also spending time practising my handstands in the garden. And I’m getting very good.”