Rather than sounding off in the letters pages of the Times Literary Supplement, a professor at the University of Toronto has taken to the less genteel world of Twitter to unleash an extraordinary tirade of more than 500 tweets attacking a new book on King Lear.Scholar claims Shakespeare didn't shorten King Lear – it was his printer Shakespeare scholar Sir Brian Vickers’s The One King Lear, published by Harvard University Press, argues that the two existing texts of Lear, the 1608 Quarto and the 1623 Folio, should be combined in one version. Vickers contends that they do not represent two versions of the play, as was deemed to be the case in the 1980s. It was published in April, when academics predicted it might prove controversial.But its author is unlikely to have expected the reaction of Professor Holger Syme at the University of Toronto, who decided three weeks ago to live-tweet his reactions to Vickers’s new text. “It turned into a bit of an all-consuming exercise, as Vickers’s book far exceeded my worst expectations; the final chapter was so brimming with misrepresentations and inconsistencies that I eventually threw my hands up after 200 tweets,” wrote Syme on his blog, where he has collected his 500-plus tweet reading.“Will be live tweeting my reading of SIR’s The One King Lear. My brain’s likely to melt if I don’t let off a steady flow of steam. #vickers,” he began on 11 May, ending last Thursday with the line: “And that’s it for Chp 8. There’s a Conclusion as well. Predictably it isn’t short. It’s also appalling. I’ll write about it tonight. #1Lear.” He decided not to.Syme told the Times Higher Education that reading the book was a “dismaying experience” that went against his “scholarly convictions and principles”. Vickers responded that he had “lived” with Lear for more than 50 years and that it took him three years to write the book, which has been anonymously peer reviewed twice by scholars. “One of them is quoted on the dust jacket describing it as ‘a big, bold book, a major piece of scholarship for everyone to engage with’,” he said. “I cannot take seriously the 500 or so tweets that Professor Syme has published, page by page, before he could have taken in the argument of each chapter, and the extensive documentation in the endnotes. His hasty judgments are expressed in bitterly sarcastic terms, and contain many errors of his own. He trivialises literary criticism, reducing it to attention-catching soundbites. Is this the way to go?”Vickers told the Guardian: “I don’t mind criticism when it is based on a considered judgment, having read and evaluated the whole work, but Syme was tweeting as he read, the equivalent of filling the margins of a book with abusive comments, a form of electronic graffiti.”Vickers added that “whatever [Syme’s] academic position … he comes across as an internet troll, speciality: character assassination by 500 tweets.”