My love of nature began with the simple but satisfying act of feeding the ducks. On a cold winter’s day sometime in the early 1960s, my mother drove me down to the river Thames on the edge of London, handed me a stale loaf of bread, and watched as I flung pieces haphazardly towards a flock of wildfowl.Yet something wasn’t quite right. Among the usual mallards and mute swans I noticed some smaller, darker birds, with strange white bulges on their foreheads. It was then that I turned to my mother and – with a three-year-old’s single-minded curiosity – asked the question that would change my life for ever. “What are those funny black ducks?”At that age, you think your parents know the answer to everything. But even though my mother had spent much of her childhood as an evacuee in rural Devon, she had never taken any real interest in nature.Fortunately, instead of fobbing me off, she recalled that somewhere on our bookshelves was a small brown book that might contain the answer. When we got home, she dug out The Observer’s Book of Birds. Inside its dog-eared pages I discovered that they weren’t black ducks at all, but coots.At this point, my fascination with birds might have come to an end. But something about this little book captured my attention and I started to study its contents in forensic detail. My lifelong passion had begun. I should confess that I have no memory of this ever happening. In the absence of tangible evidence I rely, as my pre-digital generation must, on family folklore.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stephen Moss’s mother, Kay. Photograph: Courtesy Stephen MossWhatever the initial impulse, a love of birds was now part of my life. Throughout my childhood I spent much of my time watching birds or reading about them. And although I took a break during three years at Cambridge University – where more typical youthful pursuits temporarily took over – I did then return to birding, continuing as if I’d never left off.After university I joined the BBC, where I met the legendary Bill Oddie. We talked about making a series on birdwatching: not the polished “wildlife films” of the famous Natural History Unit, but something rougher and more realistic.Finally, we got our chance and Birding with Bill Oddie was born. A decade later, we launched Springwatch. Meanwhile, I had started writing my monthly Birdwatch column for the Guardian, and the first of many books on birds and wildlife.Somehow, by my late 30s, I realised that I had done what I had never intended to do: turned my childhood hobby into my career.I was lucky to be in the right place at the right time, when the British were finally beginning to appreciate the natural wonders on their doorstep. But I was doubly fortunate that my mother – who remained more or less indifferent to birds and birding – had supported and encouraged me during those crucial early years.At first, this meant trailing around the local gravel pits after my schoolfriend Roger and me, two eight-year-olds in hot pursuit of great crested grebes. I still recall watching a mother grebe with her humbug-striped chicks nestled among the feathers on her back, frantically searching for her third, temporarily lost, offspring.Later, my mother drove me, along with my lifelong birding companion, Daniel, to birding sites around the west London suburbs. Against her better judgment, she even allowed us to cycle to the New Forest, even though we were barely in our teens. Years later, she confessed that she had been terrified every moment I was away.Soon, I wanted to go to places where I could see some really unusual birds. Top of my list were red kites.These graceful, motorway-loving raptors may be commonplace now, but in 1975 they were still mythically rare. That long, hot summer we drove for miles along the steep, narrow, hedge-lined lanes of mid-Wales. Then, on the third day of searching, we finally caught up with this beautiful bird.Hot and thirsty, we decided to celebrate with a drink at the nearest pub, only to discover that in those benighted days, most of Wales was “dry” on a Sunday. She never forgave them.Our autumnal visit to the Scilly Isles coincided with a force nine storm, causing much hilarity as we attempted to see a trio of buff-breasted sandpipers – rare birds blown across the Atlantic from North America – on the local golf course.Many years later, my mother gave me Bill Oddie’s famous Little Black Bird Book, inscribed: “To Stephen, with fond memories of walking backwards over the golf course in a gale! We had some wonderful times, love Mum.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stephen, aged eight, with sparrows. Photograph: Courtesy Stephen MossYet although my nature-filled childhood might sound like something out of an Enid Blyton story, it was anything but. My mother was the only single parent in our prim and conventional suburban world. Indeed, such was the make-do-and-mend attitude of her lower-middle-class, postwar generation, that I was the only child in my class who didn’t have two parents still married to one another.The reluctance of our friends and neighbours to allow an attractive single woman to take part in their social lives meant that she never went out, and never had a serious relationship. She worked, read, did the Telegraph crossword and tended to her garden. When she did get time for a break from work and domestic duties, and could have pursued interests of her own, she took me out to watch birds.In her mid-50s – roughly the same age I am now – my mother retired. Only then, as she became more and more confined to home, did I realise I should have done more to encourage her to develop her own hobbies and interests, instead of helping me to pursue mine.Like the Queen and Sir David Attenborough, my mother was born in 1926. But while they are celebrating their 90th birthdays this year, she is not. She died almost two decades ago, aged just 70. She did live long enough to see my first two children, David and James, my first published book and the first series of Birding with Bill Oddie.To my eternal regret, though, she died a few days before I met my wife, Suzanne, and so never saw my three younger children: Charlie, George and Daisy. I now wish she could sit with us in our Somerset garden, watching buzzards wheeling overhead. I wish she could come along on those lazy summer afternoon walks across the Avalon marshes, where we see bitterns and great white egrets, as well as the more commonplace – but for me still very special – coots and great crested grebes.I wish that she could see how happy and fulfilled I am, having taken that tiny spark of childhood curiosity and built it into a life intrinsically connected with the natural world. A life filled with unexpected joys, delights and hope for the future – for that is what a love of nature brings.Do I have regrets? Yes, many. I wish that she had discovered a lifelong passion of her own, to enjoy in her well-earned retirement. I wish that she had continued to share my joy in my family and my work. Above all, I wish I could thank her properly for what she gave me. But I am also very proud of the woman with whom I enjoyed such special times and who helped make me the person I am today.• Wild Kingdom: Bringing Back Britain’s Wildlife by Stephen Moss, is published by Vintage, £16.99. To order a copy for £11.89, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846 