The Journal of Happiness Studies is a publication I had not heard of until last Thursday, but I might take out a subscription. It sounds cheery. (It also sounds like the title is translated from Japanese, but in a cheery way.)Besides, I might have some spare reading time. I’m seriously thinking about not buying newspapers for a while. They’ve been one of my greatest pleasures for 20 years: a rustly, newsy, gossipy, eclectic lure out of bed each morning. But I wonder whether it does me any good to keep up with current events at the moment; I stare at the page with a sort of anxious, miserable impotence. And that’s just the crossword.So perhaps the Journal of Happiness Studies is the way forward. I imagine a relentless parade of jollity-inspiring ideas, items that cannot fail to make the reader smile. A sunshiny weather forecast here, a recipe for Yorkshire pudding there. An extract from My Man Jeeves here, a photograph of Christopher Biggins ice-skating there. The lyrics to Pleasant Valley Sunday here, news of a rediscovered, never-previously-broadcast episode of Inspector Morse (“The Old Scores of Port Meadow”) there. Vouchers for a free trip on a merry-go-round here, a long joke about a talking dog, contributed by Barry Cryer there.Sadly, the material in the Journal of Happiness Studies is not actually so raw – it is happiness filtered through the questions and investigations of scientists. Less a giant photograph of Thora Hird beaming from a stairlift, more a peer-reviewed report about why the thought of Thora Hird, or the invention of stairlifts, might raise our mood.The reason this publication was in the news last Thursday is that a team at Goldsmiths, University of London, has provided evidence that going nude in public makes us happier. (Or, as one newspaper reported: “Strip, strip hooray!”)Well… I’ll concede that we all enjoy thinking about nudity. That is why this particular paper in the Journal of Happiness Studies has been widely reported, compared to, say, last month’s “Using the Life Satisfaction Approach to Value Daylight Savings Time Transitions”.They’re not going to grab our attention with Daylight Savings Time. But nudity, oh boy! We’re fascinated by it! Despite the easy accessibility of full internet porn, despite the fact that people who spotted this news story on their phones or iPads were only one click away from an infinite array of stripping and shagging, they still pulled up and went: “Ooh look! This is something about nudity! Hee hee, bums! Or, rather, the thought of bums!”Lest anyone think I’m finding charm in something I purported to despise last week: I don’t include the bums of corpses. That’s a different, as it were, ball game. But I am tickled and amused by, and fond of, the deep and abiding interest in nudity maintained by my fellow humans and me, as regards healthy living adults. Naked under their clothes, the lot of them! One burst button, one trouser seat caught on a nail and everything could be revealed! Incredible!Would we really be happier if every-one was naked all the time? I think not. I suspect the masking of nakedness is key to its appeal. See if you can spot the flaw I saw in the Goldsmiths conclusions: they found higher levels of contentment and positive body image among naturists than among non-naturists; they took this to mean that naturism boosts body confidence and stripping makes you happy.You’ve spotted the problem, haven’t you? It is surely possible that stripping only makes you happy if you’re a nudist, a comfortable exhibitionist. And perhaps nudists are happy stripping off because they already have a more than averagely positive body image. If you think your arse looks like Sid James dancing cheek to cheek with his own waxwork, you’re hardly likely to sign up for the local naked ping-pong tournament. It may not be that stripping leads to confidence, so much as the other way around.I’m prepared to bet that I myself would not be as happy at the Bare All For Polar Bears event at Yorkshire Wildlife Park (where the scientists conducted some research) than I would at my local library with a jumper on.And trousers. I should have mentioned.Nothing against polar bears, I’m just self-conscious naked. My body image is neither positive or negative; I think it’s quite wrong to be ashamed of your body, but equally weird to be proud of it. I feel one should be (and believe I am) indifferent to it visually; there it just is, with me inside. I’m grateful when it works and irritated when it wheezes or sneezes or packs up unexpectedly. Aesthetically, I’m neither happy nor sad about the goods. I just don’t want to wander round with them out.The counter-argument to the Goldsmiths thesis is the story of Adam and Eve. It is evidence that 3,000 years ago, we were already coming up with narratives to explain why we might be uncomfortable naked. Our ancient ancestors clearly wrestled with this conundrum, and sought explanatory tales, because it doesn’t make sense.That’s how long we’ve found our own bodies embarrassing, that’s how long “scientists” have been baffled by it. From this, we can only surmise that covering ourselves up is not a restrictive social construct, as some nudists would have it, but a primal instinct, a response to an embarrassment that is as innate a human emotion as fear, anger or love.Look, I’m not a scientist. The story of Adam and Eve may be literally true, for all I know. Perhaps nudity is indeed Paradise, perhaps it could be regained if we all got out more. Got ’em out more.I don’t think so. But no disrespect to cheerful, confident nudists, nor the triumphant Goldsmiths scientists: I felt happy reading about them and I hope you did too.