“Everything is still so new. This technology we’re using all the time now is full of possibilities. Sometimes we forget this.” Doc Searls is an author, one of the first bloggers and a longtime advocate for open source software.Searls’ focus for the last several years has been on developing better ways to control who has access to our personal information and how it gets shared with organisations that want it. While that kind of idea may be difficult for us to actualise when so many organisations already have all that data about us, the concept is happening with other things that we own and control. The result could revolutionise the future of work.We all have assets that people value, from our time and attention to property and skills. The internet allows us to rent and sell these things to anyone anywhere and at any time.“Our species’ experience of the net, and of the world it creates, is of zero distance and cost,” Searls writes on his blog: “Sound, sight and radio waves fade across distances. We need to be close to hear and see each other. Not so on the net.”The change in perspective is very disruptive in some sectors. The rise of adblocking is a great example of people asserting themselves collectively to say: “My time and attention is valuable. I want to renegotiate a better deal here.”It’s worth remembering that many publishers and advertisers ignore the Do Not Track (DNT) standard, a widely adopted technology that makes it easy for people to tell publishers and advertisers not to follow them around the internet. In some ways adblockers can be seen as an aggressive response to a breach of the DNT contract. In another blog, Searls writes:“What we want most as free and independent human beings is agency: the ability to act with full effect. We know what this feels like in the physical world, and we are learning what this feels like in the virtual one, starting with ad and tracking blocking, which adds a higher degree of privacy to our browsers.”To me the adblocking response is indicative of an exciting macro shift. Buyers are becoming sellers and vice versa in just about every kind of transaction everywhere.The independence this new way of working brings with it isn’t new, of course. Freelance writers have been working this way for a long time. And the infrastructure to support independent journalists is only going to get better as standards such as Committee to Protect Journalists’ Global Safety Principles and Practices are adopted.The change sometimes occurs in surprising places. AOL’s decision to sell most of its stake in Patch, for example, appeared to signal the demise of local news, but it turns out that AOL had trained up a small army of inspired local reporters who decided to take on the task of running their own independent businesses.Michael Dinan is the editor of New Canaanite in Connecticut. He is also the salesman. Dinan told Nieman Journalism Lab: “My starting salary at Patch was $70,000, and I got regular and generous raises each of the years that I was there. This calendar year, in revenue, I’m on track to out-earn what I made as a finishing salary at Patch.”“I really couldn’t picture going back to work for a company, to a job-y job,” Dinan said.The reason many people are able to earn so well operating independently has a lot to do with the sophistication of the platforms at their service.Etsy is a marketplace for handmade goods. Anyone can set up shop and sell stuff they’ve made. The company now has 1.5 million active sellers, some of whom are making really good money. Alicia Shaffer was earning $80,000 (£53,000) per month at the beginning of 2015. Success like that may be unusual, but Etsy makes a big commitment to the sellers on their platform, training them on everything from branding and customer service to pricing and SEO. They’ve even started connecting creators with selected manufacturers who can help them with more complicated tasks.Etsy CEO Chad Dickerson told me: “We’re a marketplace that values community and craftsmanship, and supporting that community of sellers is at the heart of our mission to reimagine commerce.”Etsy does some smart things to help its 22.6 million active buyers find the best sellers. Their search engine favours strong seller performance in the results knowing that a good experience for the buyer is crucial to getting them to come back again. The key here is that they’ve optimised for the experience of their buyers and sellers first. Etsy could try and force users down a transaction funnel and trick them into buying things for the sake of short-term profits, but staff know that creating a successful marketplace is everything in today’s world. “Fundamentally, Etsy’s superpower is connecting disaggregated networks of people in the Etsy economy – sellers, buyers, manufacturers, retailers – to each other, to drive human-scale commerce. When you build networks based on people, you’re building community. When you combine the power of the internet with a real community, truly magical things happen,” said Dickerson.It’s too simplistic to say that this is all possible because of the internet. In my mind the reason this is happening is a natural progression of adapting to technology. The old saying goes: “If all you have is a hammer then everything looks like a nail.” The internet hammer can ask anyone or anything anywhere for something, and that person or thing can respond instantly for free and frictionlessly.It should be no surprise that people are offering small things in response to small asks. That’s what the internet does down in the deepest layers of the technology. I wonder how long it will be before every industrial process gets turned inside out by micro-workflows and an infinitely scaleable gig economy.Matt McAlister is cofounder of Publish.org. He worked at the Guardian for seven years developing media businesses and new technologies for journalism. Find him on Twitter @mattmcalisterTo get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media & Tech Network membership.All Guardian Media & Tech Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled “Brought to you by” – find out more here.