My sketchbooks do not make up a smooth, continuous series, as at different times in my career the sketchbook has played different roles. I think my attitude towards the sketchbook originates from when my grandmother gave me a little stack of very cheap notebooks. I treasured them and filled them with diagrams of fantasy aircraft and plans of racing cars, adventure comics and war scenes. What I enjoyed was the density of the little tomes, the way I could fill each page with detail. My dedication made them precious, and this feeling has never left me.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Your eight-year-old daughter couldnot do this … ’At art college we were indoctrinated with the notion that sketchbooks were a central plank of being an artist. Tutors would pore over students’ sketchbooks, checking that there was no mismatch in imagination and energy between the scrawled doodles, taped-in scraps and drunken cartoons compared with more outward-facing work. They understood that students would often choke when laying out their ideas in a larger, more finished form. They used to call it “degree show-itis” – whereby a student would make art full of careless abandon and rough-hewn poetry, only for their creative sphincter to nip up when asked to present a group of resolved artworks on which to be judged.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘My dedication made them precious … ’In the early years after college, sketchbooks were a way of keeping my practice going, as I had no other creative outlet; and I put several hours into each image, giving the books the obsessive, private quality of outsider art. Like one of my artistic heroes, 40:492" title=""40:492" title="">40:492"40:492" title="">Henry Darger, I often heavily worked both sides of each leaf, with no thought as to how I might display – let alone sell – these works.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I often heavily worked both sides of each leaf’When I managed to set up my first ceramic studio, in 1986, all my creative energy became focused on clay. I drew less and less on paper – I usually worked directly onto the pots, with no preparatory drawings at all. I used sketchbooks in a much more cursory and utilitarian way – just to remind me what to do and in what order.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  The BeastI became a father in 1992, and when my young daughter Flo and I started drawing together for fun it rekindled my enthusiasm for sketching, reminding me that not every artwork had to count towards my slowly developing “career”. We would draw for hours, filling sheet after sheet of photocopier paper. Ironically, I can trace some career-defining artworks directly back to those afternoons, scribbling with Flo. One game we often played involved inventing a character, then drawing their family, then their house, car, holiday destination, etc. One of those drawings evolved years later into the first conception of A House for Essex. With Flo I had learned to play on paper again.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Map of world holy placesSince the late 90s, sketchbooks have become increasingly important to me. I carry one with me most of the time, and if I can’t do that I usually stuff a pen and a few sheets of paper into a pocket or handbag, just in case.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘A sketchbook is an airlock for visual thoughts’A sketchbook is a place where I can discuss ideas with myself, a place I work through and refine an idea for a good while before I will let it run around the studio, and then the world. A sketchbook is an airlock for visual thoughts. I have to feel I have developed an idea enough before committing to the labour-intensive version – beginning with postage stamp-size doodles, through to double page full-colour layouts that may take several hours. It is the place to make mistakes – they are cheap in time and materials; those initial marks often tell me in a few strokes whether an idea is a goer or a dud.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It can be an archive of daft notions that later become art’I regularly flick through old sketchbooks, as I have a habit of jotting down a few words or a tiny doodle of an idea at the very first glimmer. I may dismiss them or forget them, so I go back to see if a silly squiggle needs to be taken more seriously. So a sketchbook can be an archive of daft notions that later become art.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Man-made man and man-made woman. Illustration: Particular Books, 2016A sketchbook for me is a sacred artefact, more so than many of my finished works. The density of thought, the love of art and the sheer number of man-hours in each one load them with huge meaning and memory for me. I know I could never sell them. Consequently, the drawings inside are financially worthless. Curiously, this is one of the reasons sketchbooks have become so vital to me today. As I have become more successful and my prices have risen, drawings have become like currency, sometimes worth thousands of pounds. If I put pen to paper it can feel like I have a version of the Midas touch – each mark becomes a pound sign. This makes me feel self-conscious, and I find it difficult to truly let go. I call this feeling “Picasso Napkin Syndrome” – it refers to the fact that Picasso could pay for a meal in a restaurant with a sketch on the table linen. Nowadays, pretty much the only time I draw on loose paper is for charity. Luckily for me, sketchbooks are different. Between the covers I feel safe – the drawings need never be seen by anyone but me – and thus I can play.• Sketchbooks by Grayson Perry is published next week by Particular. Grayson Perry: All Man begins on Channel 4 in the spring.