The 400th anniversary of William Shakespeare’s death is almost upon us, and events are taking place around the UK and beyond to commemorate his long-lasting legacy. The Bard is believed to have died on his 52nd birthday, 23 April – now marked by Unesco as World Book Day – and the world is ready to cheer his life and work through organised, and spontaneous, fun. In the UK, cultural, creative and educational groups have come together to organise the bulk of the activities. Here is a selection – plus some of the ways you are celebrating.Watch short films while you walk around LondonIf you’re in the capital this weekend – and ready to stroll in strikingly cold temperatures – pop to the banks of the Thames for “the Complete Walk,” a series of 37 short films made for the occasion – starring the likes of Dominic West, Gemma Arterton and Toby Jones – that will be screened on a 2.5-mile route along the river between Westminster Bridge and Tower Bridge. Each film explores one of Shakespeare’s plays and includes scenes shot in the locations Shakespeare imagined when he wrote them: Cleopatra in front of the Pyramids, Shylock in Venice’s former Jewish ghetto, Hamlet on the rocks of Elsinore, Coriolanus in Rome, etc. This is organised by Shakespeare’s Globe theatre, where you can still try to catch Hamlet, The Winter’s Tale and The Tempest.Sonnets are so 2016Sonnet jukebox anyone? Shakespeare karaoke? Sharing sofa (whatever that means)? You can do all these things at the Late at the Library party in the British Library on Saturday, coinciding with World Book Night. A ticket will also give you entry to their fabulous Shakespeare in Ten Acts exhibition. The event will also include performances by award-winning spoken word artist LionHeart and, according to the organisers, DJ Muzz Khan “will see the night out with some Shakespearean club sounds” – that alone makes it intriguing. If you wait a few more weeks and are curious about the connection between Shakespeare’s work and modern-day rappers, enjoy the Hip-hop Shakespeare Company’s take on the Bard’s words, featuring music, poetry and spoken word. Other events in London include Shakespeare cruises, the V&A Performance festival and the Shakespeare in Shoreditch festival, in which a “1,000 plays in 10 days” world record will be attempted.Visit his event-packed home town It’s not new for Stratford-upon-Avon to throw Shakespeare parties – it’s great at celebrating the playwright’s every birthday and went big on his 450th birthday two years ago, with fireworks depicting his face, a (fully clothed) Lady Godiva-led procession, and more. This time around, the town is opening the Other Place, a Royal Shakespeare Company studio theatre that has been closed for nearly 10 years; the immersive Shakespeare’s Schoolroom; and Shakespeare’s New Place, the site of his house for 19 years. You can of course also visit the house he was born in, and enjoy street attractions including a jazz procession by the New Orleans Shakespeare festival. Find out more here. For more events around the UK, head to our guide here. Enjoy fireworks in Chicago, or a Shakespeare Garden in New YorkThis year marks the 100th anniversary of the Shakespeare Garden in Manhattan’s Central Park, which features plants and flowers mentioned in his plays and poems. The popular Shakespeare in the Park performance series will also take place over the coming months. In Chicago, a commemorative festival will include fireworks, an urban remix of Othello, culinary takes on 38 of Shakespeare’s plays by 38 chefs, and an exhibition about the author’s relationship with the supernatural. Find out more about this 850 event-strong festival here. Elsewhere, events include an immersive Romeo and Juliet production in a Dubai mall and ballet in Warsaw featuring Iranian visual artists. Host your own partyOur readers have been letting us know how they’ll be celebrating, with a mix of enthusiasm and banter. “I plan to decorate my home with rude bunting, put pineapple and cheese on cocktail sticks (other ends in a potato) and organise a game of hunt the thimble. Either that, or I’ll draw a picture of a plate of mashed potatoes with a load of sausages sticking out, adorned with a quote from Hamlet,” shared CreatureAdam. “Ignore my favourite daughter, have a bit of banter with a wise fool, wander about in the rain, talk with a blind man, that sort of self-revelatory thing. Plus a few balloons and a cake,” said chargehand. “By dressing up as a woman, killing my brother, and seizing the throne unwisely. It’s what he would have wanted,” was knightpestle’s choice. More seriously, many of you told us you’d celebrate by reading his works, watching seriously weird adaptations such as a Nashville theatre group’s retelling of the movie Terminator 2 with Shakespearean lines, or attending local events – from opera to fundraising concerts. How are you going to celebrate Shakespeare’s anniversary? Let us know in the comments, and contribute your pictures here. 