Daryl better be dead. I know, I know, I don’t want him to be dead either, but after everything we went through with Glenn, another misdirection will just get us all riled up. The Walking Dead used to be a show that could kill anyone. Now we wait seven episodes to find out Glenn was hiding under a dumpster the whole time.That is why Daryl must be dead, no matter how much we love him. If The Walking Dead just fakes us out, it’s like every other show on TV, too cowardly to kill off its fans’ heroes. The Walking Dead season six, episode 14: Twice As Far Unfortunately, it probably already is. Daryl is almost certainly not dead. The men and women who run The Walking Dead would not let fans burn down Twitter, and with it their good will to the show – at least not for good. Second, that blood spatter on the lens? That unexplained comment: “He’ll be all right”? Something is up. Either they just shot Daryl in the arm or someone nearby, Dwight maybe, got shot. Whatever the case, the season finale will not confirm Daryl is dead. But the show might lose all that goodwill anyway: how could they put us in a spot to start cheering for Daryl’s death?‘It’s gonna go wrong’Daryl got himself in this spot because he stormed out of Alexandria on the hunt for limping Dwight and the crew that ambushed them and killed Denise. When Rosita, Michonne and Glenn finally catch up, Glenn tries to convince Daryl to go back behind the walls, but both the crossbowman and Rosita decide they can’t wait any more. Daryl wants to end things with the Saviors once and for all.Glenn is right, obviously. They need to learn a lot more before going to war. They went into that compound not knowing anything and keep narrowly escaping disasters that could have been easily avoided, had anyone bothered to scout before rushing in. But that’s not how Rick rolls any more. So of course Glenn and Michonne, the two who know not to skulk in the woods, are captured by the gang of aggressive white dudes because they go out to tell people not to skulk in the woods. (Side thought: is Alexandria’s diversity to the Saviors’ angry whiteness some sort of comment on the power of the patriarchy?)‘A force of nature’ Nor do we have any idea where Carol is. Watching her drive down the abandoned interstate, in a porcupine mobile scavenged off the anti-zombie walls, made her look like something out of Mad Maxine: Beyond Thunderdome.When she’s stopped by a crew of Saviors, she whips out the best weapon in her arsenal: her wit. They see a crying, helpless woman, who promptly blows them away with a machine gun she has literally hidden up her sleeve.Morgan and Rick said everything about Carol that the rest of us were thinking: she ran from the killing that Rick says is so necessary. When she was burning people in the prison, she was killing people because she “should”, and Rick thought she deserved punishment for murder. Now she’s only killing because she “needs to” in defense.But is that all a ruse, too? While it seems like Carol is trying to escape to save her conscience, she could also thinking like Daryl, and rushing off to put an end to the Saviors. Where has she gone? And what of the final survivor of her roadside massacre?‘Just hope the wrong doesn’t pull you down’The ideological fight brewing all season finally comes to a head when Rick and Morgan go looking for Carol. To Rick, it’s about “family”. Morgan sees a potential convert to pacifism. Their disagreement peaks when they find a man who slaughtered a group at a remote farmhouse. As he flees, Rick shoots. Morgan makes him miss.This is where the philosophy gets murky. Rick says he shot because he “doesn’t take chances any more” – a lesson learned after the many times Alexandrians haven’t killed their foes and then paid consequences for their mercy. Daryl didn’t kill Dwight, who came back to kill Denise. Morgan didn’t kill the Wolf, who came back to terrorize the camp. Then they attacked Alexandria, and Rick at his RV. While we may hate Rick for all of this killing, his thesis seems to have history on its side.Morgan’s response – “it’s all a circle. Everything gets a return” – sounds like it came out of True Detective. He saved the Wolf, who sacrificed his life to save Dr Denise, who then saved Carl. Though if he had just killed the Wolf, Denise would never have been a hostage in need of saving in the first place. So who’s right? Morgan, in that there is no right any more. The writers want us to think that both men can be right, but all their plotting has stacked the deck in favor of Rick’s brand of amorality.Andrew Lincoln: ‘I’m employed to go on a zombie frenzy killing spree' But they want their moral relativism, too, and through Morgan, they argue that even without a feasible moral code, you can’t let the killing make you callous. Daryl hasn’t, and he cares about his fellow citizens so much that he’s willing to sacrifice his life. Neither has Carol, who loves everyone so much she can’t stick around. Michonne is still fighting for a new civilization and Glenn just wants to take showers with his wife and wait for his baby.The only really callous character is Rick, who thinks that, through violence, he can control the world and eat all apples in bed.Knowing The Walking Dead, the finale will put him through a major correction.