It is such a thrill to be in the same room as Patsy Stone’s beehive. I’m on the set of Absolutely Fabulous: The Movie, in the basement of a London hotel on a rainy November evening. The room is purporting to be a casino in the south of France, all leopard-print furnishings, roulette tables and chandeliers the size of cars. Between shots, a woman is zhuzhing Joanna Lumley’s blond bouffant with a tail comb. Around her, dozens of octogenarian women in evening dresses sip ginger ale, pretending it’s champagne.Jane Horrocks: “It would be odd and churlish if I wasn't part of it.” Next to Lumley is Jennifer Saunders, playing Edina at her most Edinaish. She wears a shiny azure trousersuit, slogan T-shirt (“Frack Me,” it shouts) and earrings that look like Christmas tree baubles. Although the cameras can’t see it, Saunders is barefoot, making the distinctive gait she employs as Eddy all the more noticeable. It is slow, stuttery, stunted. It suggests a woman who has never bought a pair of shoes she can walk in.Unlike the bitchy assistants and formidable editors that populate most films and TV programmes about fashion, Absolutely Fabulous has always gone beyond cliche in its depiction of the industry. In Patsy, it presents the business at its most unhinged – a magazine editor who hides drugs in her beehive and describes an upcoming issue as “Sex Bitch Aristo Sex Punk Whore Bitch Prozzy Lezzy Slut ... with lovely shoes”. As anyone who has peeked behind the distressed jute curtain of the fashion industry knows, such behaviour is far from preposterous.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Absolutely Fabulous has always gone beyond cliche in its depiction of the fashion industry. Photograph: Moviestore/REX/ShutterstockAb Fab also illustrates the two main industry archetypes. There are the Patsys – insiders who set fashion rules but haven’t changed their own personal style since the 1980s. And there are the Edinas – who try all too hard to make the latest trends work regardless of self-doubt, camel toes and blisters. She is the patron saint of fashion victims.Celebrity cameos: has the joke worn thin? Speaking to Saunders, it becomes clear that fashion is a complicated industry to send up. Certain unnamed designers have resisted lending the show clothes, which puts pressure on budgets. “If you want free things, you’ve got to pay for them,” she says. “So the best thing is always to pay for them, and not pay the other price, which is having to be nice, or do things. Or else someone gets upset. If you buy the clothes, you can take the piss out of whatever you want.”There is also the issue of cosiness. Certain sectors of the fashion industry are keen to capitalise on the publicity viral clips can generate. The resulting humour tends to be gentle and celebratory.Anna Wintour, for example, starred in a video with Amy Schumer last week. And when Zoolander 2 was released earlier this year, Wintour, Valentino and other fashion heavyweights appeared in cameo roles and were involved in splashy marketing stunts. Many of the film’s worst reviews stemmed from accusations that it was too close to the modelling industry it was supposedly satirising.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Saunders and Lumley with Emma Bunton, one of the film’s many celebrity cameos. Photograph: Courtesy Ev/REX/ShutterstockCosiness could be an issue for Ab Fab, too. The film was not available for review – a slightly worrying sign – but it appears to have more fashion cameos than regular cast members.The plot hinges on Edina accidentally killing Kate Moss – with whom Saunders is on first-name terms (“I realised I had written most of the film and sold it without ever actually asking Kate if that was OK,” she says, “but she was just like: ‘Yeah, yeah’”). Alexa Chung, Jean Paul Gaultier, Stella McCartney and Jerry Hall are among many who appear.The film has already proved controversial. In December, comedian Margaret Cho accused it of “yellowface” when it emerged that Janette Tough – aka Jimmy Krankie – was playing a Japanese fashion designer named Huki Muki. “I love AbFab but #YELLOWFACE is something I cannot watch – I just can’t,” Cho said on Twitter. “It’s sad when heroes are no longer heroic. Too bad. #racism.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ab Fab’s fashion front row, featuring Lulu, Game of Thrones’s Gwendoline Christie, Saunders,Abigail Clancy, Lumley, Sadie Frost and Tinie Tempah. Photograph: Courtesy Ev/REX/ShutterstockSaunders says this was a misunderstanding. “The whole film is about people being what they’re not,” she says. She thinks the criticism came about because the casting agent had put a call out for a “Japanese designer”. “But I’d always thought it was going to be Janette because I just thought that was hilarious. Huki Muki is a brand, she is the designer and she looks a bit Japanese, but the moment she opens her mouth she’s from Glasgow. It was just a silly little joke – in no way are we pretending she is Japanese, no yellow makeup or slitty eyes or any silliness.” As for Twitter? “This nonsense that everyone can be offended by the idea of someone else being offended by something. It’s just ridiculous.”Edina finds herself at the eye of a Twitter storm in the film, too, and alienation from the modern world is one of the film’s big themes. It’s quite a departure for a comedy that has always excelled at pillorying the zeitgeist.Saunders claims she has lost touch with all of that of late: “There is so much that’s new, I don’t think I can take any more.” She also says that she is not trying to write about fashion, really, or satirise the darkest sections of the industry. In the series, she says fashion was “a convenient way of showing people’s constant need for change. Also, there is something innately funny about people wearing something that makes you think: ‘What the fuck have you come as?’ until they tell you it’s Gucci or Prada and you go: ‘Oh, it’s wonderful!’”Joan Didion and Céline: why old age is having a fashion moment       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The film is about Patsy and Eddy reaching an age where the world isn’t that kind to them any more.’ Photograph: Courtesy Ev/REX/ShutterstockInstead, Saunders says the heart of the film is about Patsy and Eddy “reaching an age where the world isn’t that kind to them any more. A sort of loss of expectation. Running towards nostalgia and towards a comfortable world that they imagine the south of France will be. It’s rather sad.”In the casino scene, our Bolly-fuelled heroines confront the ghosts of Christmas future. They wobble around, peering at the older women with overt disgust. At a roulette table, a woman wears sparkly oversized spectacles in the manner of nonagenarian fashion icon Iris Apfel.I ask: was this a reference to the trend for older women as fashion figures? “Oh, yes!” says Saunders. “That thing. Ooh, look how great you can look when you’re old! There seem to be trends for old people nowadays: lots of eye makeup and giant jewellery, bright-orange lipstick, a bright-orange coat, great big things over your little wrists.” Her joyful cackle suggests she may have a barb or two up her sleeve for the fashion industry, after all.Absolutely Fabulous: The Movie is out on 1 July.