The former Tory environment secretary, Caroline Spelman, has called for a ban on fracking in the UK ahead of a report by an influential committee of MPs that is expected to conclude fracking could derail efforts to tackle climate change.The intervention by Spelman, a member of the Environmental Audit Committee, comes as the government’s drive for fracking came under heavy political attack on Thursday.Anne McIntosh, Tory chair of the separate environment select committee of MPs, also mounted an assault against shale gas exploration while Labour’s shadow ministers said that fracking should not allowed until 13 regulatory “loopholes” are closed.David Cameron has said the government is “going all out” for shale gas in the UK, claiming it would create jobs and cut the country’s reliance on imports. But opponents argue the high pressure fracturing of rocks to release gas risks health and environmental impacts and drives climate change.Spelman’s demand for a halt to fracking was made in an amendment to a controversial government bill on which MPs will vote on Monday. The amendment, which has the backing of half the MPs on the EAC, calls for a “moratorium on the hydraulic fracturing of shale gas deposits in order to reduce the risk of carbon budgets being breached.” This “reflects the conclusions” of an EAC inquiry which will be published on Monday and is expected to conclude that the push for fracking could derail efforts to tackle global warming.McIntosh, who chairs a committee of MPs on environment, food and rural affairs, also opposes shale gas exploration and put forward amendments, including one to retain the right of people to block fracking under their homes. “I don’t think fracking is appropriate,” she told the Guardian. “The carbon emissions from fossil fuels cannot be a good thing.” McIntosh, whose constituency contains a proposed fracking site, says shale gas exploration contradicts the Conservative Party’s acknowledgment of climate change and she is also concerned about possible contamination of groundwater by leaked fracking fluid and earthquakes. Labour has already attempted to amend the infrastructure bill to strengthen environmental protections, including banning fracking in areas that provide drinking water and in national parks. But for the first time on Thursday Labour said fracking should be banned until “loopholes”, such as the proposal to allow “any substance” to be injected into wells, were closed.Caroline Flint, Labour’s shadow secretary of state for energy and climate change, said: “David Cameron has repeatedly ignored people’s genuine and legitimate environmental concerns over shale gas. Despite clear evidence that existing regulations for shale gas are not fit for purpose, the government seems prepared to push ahead with fracking at any cost.” She said shale gas might have a role in displacing some imported gas but not at the expense of the environment or climate change.Matt Hancock, business and energy minister said: “We have one of the most robust regulatory systems in the world for shale gas. It’s baffling that the Greens want us to miss out on one of the greatest economic opportunities in a generation.”A spokesman for the Department of Energy and Climate Change (Decc) said: “We are confident that our existing robust regulation will protect residents, the environment and the landscape for exploration.”A county divided: is Lancashire ready for its fracking revolution? On 14 January, ministers accepted two Labour amendments which mean fracking companies will be legally bound to reveal the chemicals they use and to better monitor for groundwater pollution. “We recognise the importance of ensuring the shale industry is completely transparent and accountable,” the Decc spokesman said.“The call for a UK moratorium by senior cross party MPs is a further blow to an industry still reeling from the ban on fracking in New York State in December due to health risks,” said Friends of the Earth climate campaigner Donna Hume. “From Lancashire to Balcombe, communities are rejecting the fracking industry’s spin and this move shows MPs aren’t swallowing it either. The truth is people do not want a high-impact fossil fuel industry that would leave a legacy of pollution and disruption and would lock the world into further climate change.”On Wednesday, planning officers at Lancashire County Council (LCC) said plans by fracking company Cuadrilla should be rejected due to “unacceptable” increases in noise and heavy traffic. But the officials judged the risks to public health, air and water pollution, subsidence and earthquakes were low and acceptable.Ken Cronin, chief executive of industry body UK Onshore Oil and Gas, said: “As the recommendation from LCC officials shows, there are no geological, environmental or public health reasons not to proceed with hydraulic fracturing in the UK. All a moratorium would do would be to put back development of natural gas from shale in the UK, with a resulting negative effect on the UK’s energy security and plans to phase out coal and reduce harmful emissions.”The MPs on the EAC committee declined to comment ahead of the publication of their report on Monday. Those backing the moratorium are Spelman, Matthew Offord, Zac Goldsmith (all Conservative), Caroline Lucas (Green), Joan Walley, Mark Lazarowicz, Alan Whitehead and Katy Clark (all Labour).