The steady increase of children’s shows in Edinburgh every summer is proof that despite soaring accommodation costs, the festivals attract a big family audience. Do beware that quality is not always guaranteed, however many times the word dinosaur is mentioned in the title. But there will be some gems, and to help point you in the right direction, I’ve put together some suggestions. The International festival is increasingly embracing high-quality work for younger audiences. That can only be a good thing. And don’t overlook the Edinburgh international book festival’s fabulous programme for children. I’ll be there, talking mystery and crime books for kids with the wonderful Katherine Woodfine. Trends this year on the Edinburgh fringe include increasing amounts of work made for babies and the very young. The Pleasance has created a dedicated kids zone at the EICC, spanning shows and also daily crafting and workshops. It’s worth taking a look under the events section in the fringe programme for family-friendly ghost tours and the Assembly Rooms’ family-orientated stage-to-screen showings. The Museum of Scotland and the National Galleries are both top destinations, the Royal Botanic Garden is a delight and if all else fails you can wear the kids out by taking them up Arthur’s Seat. Oh, and remember there will be plenty of shows in the main theatre section of the fringe suitable for older children and teenagers. It’s worth checking out the comedy section too. So be a little bit daring – my list only scratches the surface. If a show has caught your eye, or you’ve seen it in previous years and rated it, do please let us know in the comments below.1. Bedtime Stories      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bedtime Stories. Photograph: Mark RobsonI saw a version of Upswing’s gentle, enjoyable show earlier in the year and its potential – mixing circus and storytelling – was obvious. It’s a work about family designed to be enjoyed by families snuggled up together in beds and under duvets, and that makes it a bit special. It’s listed for the over-fives but younger and older family members will enjoy the experience.• Underbelly Circus Hub, 4 to 22 August.2. The Bookbinder      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Bookbinder. Photograph: Philip MerryTrick of the Light’s highly acclaimed show appears in the main theatre programme this year, but this dark fairytale (think Neil Gaiman or grim brothers Grimm) is a real delight, and probably only for the over-10s. If you are looking for something lighter, the madcap musical romp, Beards! Beards! Beards! May fit the bill for the over-eights at Assembly Roxy.• Pleasance Courtyard, 3 to 28 August.3. The Cat in the HatWho would have thought that Dr Seuss’s brilliant story about a cat who turns up at a house-proud home would translate so well to the stage? But it did, at the National Theatre a few years back. Sadly, director Katie Mitchell isn’t onboard for this revival, but this tale of worried children, an anxious goldfish, and an anarchic, very pleased-with-itself cat, should still be a treat.• Pleasance Courtyard, 3 to 21 August.4. Chotto DeshAkram Khan’s first ever family show, created with Sue Buckmaster, is a real delight. The tale of a boy who dreams of becoming a dancer, it features exquisite animations of crocodiles, elephants and butterflies and combines contemporary dance with Indian kathak. Inspired by Khan’s own childhood, this Edinburgh international festival presentation mixes reality and mythology to explore rebellion, identity and homeland. Ages seven and over.• Edinburgh International Conference Centre, 5 to 29 August.5. Every Brilliant Thing      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Every Brilliant Thing. Photograph: MB PublicityIt’s not intended for children or young people, but this brilliantly funny play about depression would fit the bill for a family with older children and teenagers. The mix of comedy and interaction, combined with the sharpness of writer Duncan Macmillan (People, Places and Things) ensures this would be a cool experience and liable to engender much discussion around the issues involved.• Roundabout @Summerhall, 3 to 28 August.6. Glasgow GirlsAgain not intended for a teenage audience, but this lively musical by David Greig and Cora Bissett about a group of Glasgow teenagers, who fought to save their refugee friend from deportation, would be a good choice for the over-12s. Loud, thoughtful and often joyous too.• Assembly Hall, 4 to 28 August.7. Head in the CloudsThe Royal Botanic Garden setting, well away from the frenetic hubbub of the main fringe, means this multi-sensory show for zero- to five-year-olds should be a gentle experience. After all, how can you possibly go wrong with balloon sheep? You can’t, nor the glorious garden to play in afterwards.• Royal Botanic Gardens, 8, 9, 11 to 16, 18 to 23, 25 to 27 August.8. The HogswallopsBack at the fringe after its success last year and, by all accounts, in better shape after a reworking, this is the story of a misfit family celebrating Dad’s birthday. Washing lines become a trapeze and housework a juggling act in a lovable show suitable for all ages, but particularly families. Conveniently close to the children’s playground too.• Underbelly Circus Hub, 4 to 22 August.9. Hup      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hup. Photograph: Dahlia KatzShows for babies are becoming increasingly prevalent on the fringe and this one has pedigree: it comes from Starcatchers, who have created some terrific work for children. A quartet of classical musicians and a raccoon feature in piece aimed at 0-24 months. In my humble opinion, nothing can ever go wrong with a raccoon present.• Pleasance Kids @ EICC, 11 to 28 August.10. I Got Superpowers for My BirthdayPaines Plough teams up with young theatre specialists, the Half Moon, for a family show by Katie Douglas, about three very different teenagers who must defeat an evil overlord planning to turn the world to ice. He’s clearly been to Edinburgh in August. Should be rumbustious fun. Ages seven and over.• Roundabout @Summerhall, 3 to 28 August.11. Into the WaterSuzanne Cleary and Peter Harding are behind this foot-stomping family adventure, inspired by playground games and traditional dance. Telling the story of two people washed up in a magical world, the show is part of Up and Over It’s ongoing reinvention of folk dance for 21st-century audiences. Ages four and over.• Surgeons’ Hall, The Space, 11 to 21 August.12. The Many Doors of Frank FeelbadHow do we cope when things go missing? This is the new one from Bootworks, whose The Incredible Book Eating Boy was a thing of real beauty and considerable invention. A show for the over-fives that deals with loss and bereavement with the lightest of touches.• Pleasance Kids @EICC, 10 to 28 August.13. Mikey and AddieMikey think his dad was an astronaut. Everyone else knows he’s wrong, but they aren’t going to tell him the truth. But Addie knows that you shouldn’t tell lies, and when the two collide, both their lives change. This admired show by Andy Manley and Rob Evans is part of the Made in Scotland showcase. Ages nine and over.• Summerhall, 3 to 28 August.14. Poggle      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Poggle. Photograph: Brian HartleyVince wants to explore the forest, but it’s scary. Then he meets the friendly Poggle, who takes him on an adventure in Barrowland Ballet’s award-nominated dance-theatre piece for the very young, involving audience participation. Six months to four years.• Dancebase, 5 to 21 August.15. PuzzleThis Lithuanian dance-theatre piece, which has toured internationally, explores how the world looks to the very young, in a playful performance involving brightly coloured shapes assembled into patterns and familiar objects. Ages zero to three.• Zoo Pleasance, 5 to 13, 15 to 20 August.16. RawIf there’s an Edinburgh show I don’t want to miss, it’s this dance-theatre piece created by Belgian dance company Kabinet K, in the International festival programme. In a rubble-strewn landscape, a group of children stand together against an invisible threat. This is a piece about pretending, dreaming and trying to make sense of the world. For the over-12s and adults.• Edinburgh International Conference Centre, 5 to 29 August.17. The Showstoppers’ Kids’ ShowsThe brilliant improvisers deservedly won an Olivier award for their adult West End shows, in which they cleverly and with enormous creativity plunder and reimagine well-known show tunes to fit fantastical new scenarios. This should be real fun for the entire family, but only the kids get the opportunity to offer suggestions to the cast.• Pleasance Courtyard, 3 to 21 August.18. Quest for ExcaliburApparently, King Arthur threw Excalibur into Duddingston Loch. You’ve got to help him find it. I can’t yet vouch for the show itself, but the setting – away from the heart of the city – is enchanting, and there should be fun to be had solving clues and singing songs in an effort to find the missing sword. Ages four to 10.• Duddingston Kirk Manse Gardens, 1 to 14 August.19. The Snail and the Whale      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Snail and the Whale. Photograph: © Tall StoriesTitle-led theatre may get the crowds in, but often lacks real creative flair. But Tall Stories’ imaginative staging of Julia Donaldson’s picture book is a pleasure. It’s ingenious, nattily staged, and like the little snail at the heart of the story has big ambitions and wide horizons. Very nice. Ages four and over.• Pleasance Courtyard, 3 to 21 August.20. Teatro Delusio      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Teatro Delusio. Photograph: Pierre BorrasciThe glamour of life on stage is contrasted with the mundane realities of backstage existence in Familie Flöz’s masked theatre show, in which reality and unreality collide in fantastical style. It’s not intended for younger audiences, but I reckon if you are looking for family entertainment and your kids are over nine, you will all find plenty to enjoy in this whimsical, skilful piece.• Pleasance Courtyard, 3 to 29 August.21. Us/ThemBelgium has a different attitude to young people and it shows in the complexity of work they make for the over-12s. This piece, inspired by the 2004 Beslan school siege, is a case in point, using a true story to explore how children cope with extreme situations. Definitely not for the younger members of the family, but likely to be knotty and rewarding for parents and their older offspring.• Summerhall, 3 to 29 August.• Edinburgh international festival and Edinburgh festival fringe run from 5-29 August – check individual shows/venues for date and times.