In the summer of 1992, in the early hours of a Sunday morning, Richard Renaldi and his boyfriend Eric left The Sound Factory, the celebrated nightclub on Manhattan’s 27th Street, to walk home through Chelsea, on the west side of Manhattan. As they walked through the city, the pair was approached by an older man named Larry.Larry, they discovered, would leave his Staten Island home in the early hours of Sunday morning and travel to Chelsea. There, he would silently watch gay men as they left New York’s world-famous nightclubs. Out from the shadows: why cruising had a cultural moment in 2016 Larry had never come to terms with his sexuality. He came of age in the 1960s, when sodomy was still a felony in every US state, and was still scared of identifying as a homosexual. So he would watch, from a safe distance, the men as they left the clubs – high, familiar with each other, still sweating from the dance floor. “He stood outside the doors of the nightclubs on Sunday mornings, looking in,” Renaldi remembers today.Larry was observing a generation of gay men that, in comparison to his own experience, was out, proud and liberated. And yet the gay scene he observed was in the throes of a profound crisis.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Richard Renaldi/ApertureRenaldi, who had grown up in Chicago, was studying for a BFA in photography at New York University. During evenings, he worked shifts as a cocktail waiter at King Tut’s Wah Wah Hut on Avenue A. And then he would immerse himself in the “4am subculture” of the city’s clubbing scene, finding himself “dancing joyfully and erotically with strange men and women, celebrating the beauty and outlandishness in each other, aroused by a collective sexual energy”.And yet Renaldi, and everyone he knew, lived with the strain of the emerging Aids epidemic. “And New York City was the epicentre of the disease,” he says. Playing it safe: gay men on their idea of security – in pictures In the late 1980s, Aids was the leading cause of death for New York men between the ages of 25 and 44. By the mid 90s, the “gay plague” was killing more than 8,000 New Yorkers every year. Renaldi remembers attending an Aids Coalition to Unleash Power (Act Up) meeting at a nightclub called The Saint. “I went because I was hoping to meet a man or make a friend,” he says. “I placed myself in the midst of a health crisis because I was lonely and full of yearning. I found myself craving sex and intimacy – with the plague as backdrop.”Twenty-five years later, Renaldi is now the older man hanging outside gay clubs. Since the summer of 2010, Renaldi has hung out near the smoking areas, queues and exits of clubs like Pacha, Santos Party House, Stage 48 and Roseland. Using an 8×10-inch large format camera, he takes soft, still, very intimate monochrome portraits of gay men and women as they start their journey home through New York. He wanted, he says, “to capture the way the city feels just before sunrise, when you’ve been awake and stayed out all night”.The series, titled Manhattan Sunday, has been anticipated since the Guggenheim Foundation awarded Renaldi a fellowship in 2015 in recognition of the work, and is about to be the subject of a major exhibition at New York’s Eastman Museum from 21 January. To coincide with the exhibition, Aperture has published a monograph of the series.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Richard Renaldi/ApertureThe photographs are a love letter to New York. “It was in these serene moments, leaving the clubs, totally spent, that a new city revealed itself to me,” Renaldi says.But these portraits of the gay men and women of noughties New York act as a way for Renaldi to understand his own youth as a gay man – not unlike Larry’s experience.In 1996, in the months after a breakup with David, a “wild, untameable” boyfriend he’d met in Montreal, Renaldi realised he was HIV positive.Yet he was “extraordinarily lucky”. Just as Renaldi seroconverted – the period of time in which HIV antibodies become detectable after infection – a new class of drugs were coming to market. Renaldi decided to take them, and they have, he says, “saved his life”.At the age of 48, Renaldi is still very much in love with the city’s club scene. “Nightclubs are templates on to which we can project our fantasies,” he says. “Anonymity, familiarity and desire intersect on the dance floor. And in the age of advanced HIV prevention and therapy, the club scene is today somewhat less encumbered by a sense of mortal dread.”He stills thinks of Larry, Renaldi says – and identifies with him, too. “I am middle-aged. I occupy the same stage of life Larry did when I met him in Chelsea a quarter of a century ago,” he says. “I have often wondered what happened to him, if he passed through the doors and joined a community, or simply remained outside, bearing witness.”Manhattan Sunday will go on show at New York’s Eastman Museum from 21 January. A photo book of the series will be published by Aperture