Late-night hosts discussed a disastrous week for the Trump administration from his thwarted attempt at another travel ban to his healthcare bill problems.Late-night TV roundup: 'Trump's not going down for his mistakes' On Late Night with Seth Meyers, the host ridiculed the president for his latest round of setbacks, reminding audiences of a rally last year when he boasted about all of the “winning” that would happen once he got to the White House. “Are you sick of winning yet?” he said. “Because if you are, you’d better get to the doctor before Trump takes away your healthcare.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest At his latest rally Trump claimed that he had done more in his first 50 days in office than any president before him. “Trump has done more in office the way a toddler helps out in the kitchen,” he said. “He may be trying, but by the time he leaves there’s snot on the fridge and a shoe in the dishwasher.”Meyers then played an incoherent answer from Trump concerning the negative press he’s been receiving. “You’re so paranoid about wiretapping that you talk like a mafia don, afraid the feds are listening,” Meyers joked.He commented: “Trump keeps losing and he doesn’t seem to understand why he keeps losing.”Trump has also signaled that he believes the Affordable Care Act was deliberately designed to fail so it would make his life difficult. “You think Obama intentionally designed his signature piece of legislation to fall apart in six years?” he said. “It’s a healthcare bill, not a Kia.”Meyers then discussed the proposed budget cuts that would affect the Meals on Wheels program. “How dead inside do you have to be to not want old people to get food?” he said. “Your heart is so small, it makes your tiny hands look like catcher mitts.”Meyers added: “Your key demographics were old people and older people. They believed you when you said you cared about them.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest On The Tonight Show, Jimmy Fallon spoke about Trump’s next steps with his travel ban, as he claims he will take it to the supreme court. “And if they block it, he says he’s going to bring it to the Justice League,” he said.After the Irish prime minister, Enda Kenny, visited Trump and left him with a bowl of shamrocks, Fallon joked that Trump would have asked: “Where are the little marshmallows?”Trump also visited the house of former president Andrew Jackson. “Trump may have been confused because he also praised Andrew’s brothers Michael, Jermaine, Randy and Tito,” he said.On Jimmy Kimmel Live!, the host brought up the potential budget cuts and ridiculed the title.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “The title of the budget is America First, a Budget Blueprint to Make America Great Again,” he said. “It seems like while they were cutting things, they could have cut a few words out of that title.”He continued: “The guy who has three oil paintings of himself in his bathroom wants to cut the National Endowment for the Arts.”Kimmel was equally incensed about the cuts to older people receiving food. “Meals on Wheels are out, but don’t worry the gold trips to Mar-a-Lago every weekend, those will not stop,” he said.