Spoiler alert: this recap assumes you’ve seen the last episode of The Night Manager. Don’t read on if you haven’t.Well, I’m confused! For weeks, the Night Manager has trodden a terribly fine line. Would a man as sensibly paranoid as Richard Roper welcome an interloper like Jonathan Pine into his Injustice League without batting an eyelid? The idea always stretched the suspension of disbelief beyond breaking point, and so everything else that’s so good about the series seemed to depend on the resolution of that problem. If, as I (and I think a lot of others) thought was inevitable, the point was that Roper had been playing a double game, had known about Jedathan and that Pine had been a spy all along, the denouement promised a lot. There would be a confrontation that turned everything on its head, maybe the revelation that one of the unimpeachable goodies – David Harewood’s Joel Steadman, I was sure of it – had been a Tradepass mole, and real tension in the question of whether Pine could possibly prevail when a supervillain had had his number from the start. The Night Manager has had a cruel enough edge that you could have imagined the credits rolling over an image of Jonathan tending to Jed’s corpse, his victory made meaningless – or even Burr finding the two of them dead together. Every time Pine leered at the psychotic criminal mastermind’s girlfriend or casually sent a text in the allegedly locked down Mallorcan Fortress of Evil, it was that danger that kept you from rolling your eyes.Welcome to Dragon School – the lair of the British acting elite Yeah Right ManagerAnd look where we’ve ended up. For a good part of this finale, I still thought Roper might at any moment show his hand and take Pine for everything he had, or at least give him a run for his money. But, as it turns out, The Worst Man In The World is also the most sweetly naive. He really did think Pine was, in the terms that he applied to the dearly departed Corky, “a good man”. He really didn’t notice his cuckolding by a coupling of such flagrant sexual electricity that you half expected his hair to lift gently into the air when he went near them. He really did have faith.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘You must care very deeply about the person you’re protecting’ ... Jed (Elizabeth Debicki) and Roper (Laurie). Photograph: Des Willie/BBC/The Ink FactoryWhen the penny did finally drop, the consequence should have been a deep sense of jeopardy, but Roper was so slow on the uptake that the prospect of him being able to do anything about it still seemed remote. “I think you must care very deeply about the person you’re protecting,” he said to Jed, with the suppressed tremble of a child who’s found out about Father Christmas a little later than his classmates. And then his display of sorrowful pique when he finally – and temporarily – had his nemesis where he wanted him: “It is a very rare thing, Jonathan Pine, for me to trust a person. But you were special. I knew it the first moment I saw you. You saved my son, risked your life. I should have known something was wrong.” At about 9.42pm this evening, Britain’s living rooms resounded to the collective mutter of incredulous spy intrigue enthusiasts remarking that yes, you bloody well should have, you great arms-dealing baby.So that’s it, right? The BBC’s glossiest, smartest, most indecently entertaining Sunday night drama in ages, blown to smithereens: all that careful, incremental work made irrelevant, fine performances and direction rendered forgettable by a simple credibility gap. Except: to my very great surprise, I didn’t really care. I suspect, given the frustration a lot of commenters have expressed with the central implausibility we’ve all noticed, that this will not be a view everyone shares – but I loved the finale of the Night Manager. In its masterful pacing, its explosively satisfying climax, and the Oedipal unravelling that followed, it did something fairly remarkable: it took the disbelief we were self-consciously putting back on and asked, gently, if we wouldn’t rather take it off again. And for reasons that we still might not fully understand, we said yes.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Blue-eyed boy ... Jonathan Pine (Tom Hiddleston). Photograph: Des Willie/BBC/The Ink FactoryBier boils a frogAbove all, that was possible because director Susanne Bier handled her story with such irresistible confidence. Throughout the series, she’s known exactly when to put the foot down and when to ease off. After the breathlessness of last week’s episode, you might have expected the finale to go up another gear; instead, she held back, boiling us like the proverbial frog. We had tea at the Nefertiti, dangerously entwined fingers at the bar, and Angela Burr subjected to a tediously overpopulated episode of Dragon’s Den at the beginning; even Pine’s killing of Freddie Hamid drew its power from the clinical calm of its execution. As the pace gathered, Bier still let critical moments linger, most deliciously as we watched Pine key in a detonation code that would change everything right in front of Roper’s unseeing eyes. It was intoxicating, weird, a mixture of indulgent and traumatic; instead of biting our nails, it felt like having them nibbled away by those little fish you can get to give you a pedicure. (I haven’t done this, to be clear.)The explosions were The Night Manager’s moment of redemption, I thought. Even if the setup was a stretch (hop in the back guys – why would they bother searching my van when I make an unscheduled late-night visit to this top secret munitions facility?), the clues were scattered with sufficient guile to leave us unclear about exactly what was going to happen, and then reassembled as they were about to come to fruition, providing a lovely moment of realisation just before they clicked into place. Even if only by dint of being on the other side of the smartphone, we felt the inevitably of the payoff the second before Roper did. We felt smarter than the supervillain.Sorry dadMy favourite line of the finale: Roper, gazing at Pine as he processes Sandy’s question about where the first $300m payment has gone, and a sour little smile taking hold of his mouth as he exclaims: “Oh, you beauty.” It tells us so much about Roper, and so much about his relationship with Pine. We get his appreciation for a good con, predicated on a psychopathic feeling that none of this is anything more than a game. I thought of the philosophy he expounded to Pine in episode three, in which he advises him to realise that life is all rotten, and to find freedom in learning to celebrate it; I wondered if Pine’s seizure of his own sort of freedom, his own celebration of that rottenness, intersects with doing the right thing more by chance than by design. And we get that Roper is experiencing the curious, simultaneous feeling of pride and obsolescence that a father might feel the first time his son beats him at chess.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Oh, you beauty’ ... the penny finally drops for Roper (Laurie) as Pine (Hiddleston) and Sandy Langbourne (Alistair Petrie) look on. Photograph: Des Willie/BBC/The Ink FactoryTheir relationship could hardly be more Oedipal, really. (Let’s not think too much about who that makes Jed.) Pine has persistently shown flashes of the remorselessness that makes Roper the best at what he does, has, I think, enjoyed killing people, has fallen for the gazillionaire arms dealer lifestyle, has slotted seamlessly into the world he is supposed to despise: has found, just as Burr predicted he would, that inside him there is half a psychopath. (“I was living half a life when you met me,” he told Burr this week, implicitly acknowledging what it was that made him whole.) Half a psychopath is bound to look up to a complete one, surely. But he has also accepted that his only route to redemption is to bump the old man off. At the end, when father and son have their last exchange, Pine refers back to the observation Roper made about Corky earlier on: “You have to commit. You have to make a decision.” You might read that as a sort of apology – an acknowledgement that his place on the other side of the table to his mentor is almost arbitrary, driven by a series of events that unfolded before the two of them had even met. But you might also read it as the final proclamation of his victory: whereas Pine picked his side and relentlessly pursued a corresponding agenda, Roper was too besotted with the boy in his own image to see what was staring him in the face – to commit to the truth that he must, must, have known. Do you remember Jed’s grudging acknowledgement of Pine’s superpower in episode four? “Everyone’s attracted to you,” she said. “Who are you?” At the time, we might not have understood how broad the category of “everyone” was. But in the end, it turned out that Jed and Corky’s weakness for the blue-eyed boy was merely incidental. Roper wasn’t betrayed by their yearning: he was betrayed by his own.Notes and observationsThe deep relief that came from seeing Jed and Jonathan finally allowed to spend the night together was short-lived. Before long, she was shipping back to the US, facing up to her horrible family situation and finding herself apart from her beloved again. That contingent resolution felt of a piece with everything that had gone before; it also set us up nicely for a second series that goes beyond Le Carre (whose source novel had the couple setting up home in the south of England), denying Pine the domestic life that seems anathema to spies. Except Burr, that is.Another spoiler for the novel: this is only Wikipedia-based so forgive me if it’s got holes in, but apparently the original story doesn’t give Pine anything like the same victory – instead, Burr is discredited, Roper completes the deal, and the hero’s only consolation prize is that he and Jed get away in one piece. If that makes this telling quite a step away from the source, it also seems like a sensible one: Sunday night telly is not the venue for too much ambiguity, and Roper’s blindness to Pine’s betrayal would be a lot more irritating if he got away with it regardless.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An additional layer of dread ... Angela Burr’s (Olivia Colman) bump loaded every close call with horrific tension. Photograph: Des Willie/BBC/The Ink FactoryOlivia Colman might have been left without an awful lot to do here, but this was her most interesting episode by a mile. Her pregnancy became much more than a scriptwriter’s workaround this week, the bump on her front loading every violent confrontation or close call with an additional layer of dread. I loved her childlike pleasure when she got Pine’s call from Cairo, and her sourly amusing response to Roper’s question about who the hell she was in the grand scheme of things: “Oh, the grand scheme of things? Dunno, I live in Bermondsey?”I don’t mind admitting that I was a bit disappointed not to see Frisky shot in the head. Still, it’s another good reason to hope for a second series. If it does happen, I anticipate a comeback from Dickie Roper: he might have been taken away by a guy who you suspect has his own claim on being The Worst Man In The World, but we never did see where they wound up.Recap of the recapsEpisode five recapEpisode four recapEpisode three recapEpisode two recapEpisode one recap