The hot air balloon date is a Bachelor favorite. Why not? The show is shot in an assortment of scenic locales, the better to show off the magic of helium. Somehow, I have never been in a hot air balloon. Of course, not many of us have run the gauntlet that is The Bachelor in search of love, so perhaps all the dates are like nothing we ever do.On Monday night, Ben went up, up and away with Amanda, the 25-year-old single mom from California. As always, they talked about feelings. As always, Amanda felt comfortable with Ben. Actually, like everyone else, she felt amazing.The women of The Bachelor are inventing a whole new gamut of ecstasy in relationship to Ben. They cannot adore him enough. And they cannot articulate why.This is the dawning of the age of amazing.The Bachelor: season 20, episode four recap – are these people space aliens? Ben thinks Amanda is amazing. As with the rest of the women, she claims to have trouble opening up, and then tells Ben all about her ex-husband and his cheating heart as if she talks about it all the time, which she surely does. It is likely all she ever talks about. I think I’ve got her number.I watch The Bachelor and bear witness to the failure of the American educational system. The lack of decent conversation is a mishap that goes back to what these women were not taught in grade school. Or ever. When the show moved to Mexico City, they were given Spanish lessons, but these women really need help with English. None of them gets the subjective case right, and they have all replaced the comma with the word like. You know what? This should not be on television. And anyone else with these speech ticks should fix them – they are the worst.Ben’s second date of the night, with Lauren H, the kindergarten teacher from Ann Arbor, proves once again that he’s successful at evoking emotion. The Bachelor is a feeling festival. Lauren H opens up about a four-year relationship that ended badly, and her choice to be happy anyway. Ben is moved. It’s as if they have somehow completed the Bataan Death March.Also this week, as usual, there was much intrigue about Olivia, in a situation that is ... to be continued (fingernails hanging on to the edge of a cliff, you know the rest). Ben might break with precedent and revoke a rose. Everyone wants to rip Olivia to shreds, and maybe they should. And Jubilee left, after Ben told her they had no future. None of the women cried. So it would seem like these were the big episodes of the week. And they were. But they are just noise. There is a lot of noise this season.I happen to have seen Bruce Springsteen in concert on Sunday night, and I think all concerned could benefit from a few lines in one of his songs: “So you been broken and you been hurt/ Show me somebody who ain’t/ Yeah I know I ain’t nobody’s bargain/ But hell a little touch up/ And a little paint.”The drama of The Bachelor is just what all of us have to get through. None of it makes you a better person. We’d all be best off without this stuff. There is no virtue in any of it. You know you are ready to get married when you have had enough. That is how it works. Most people grasp this intuitively, which is why so many people do get married.Then there are the people in therapy for decades trying to figure out what is surprisingly simple. It’s only not simple if you don’t want it to be.The most important thing on The Bachelor is how serious Ben is about Lauren B There is no accounting for it. There is nothing so great about her, except maybe her fantastic butt. But that could be it. Maybe Ben is just totally hot for Lauren B.Whatever it is, he has a thing about her. He keeps finding ways to spend time with her even when he has dates with other people.Lauren B is a simple girl. She is a blonde who serves cocktails on an airplane and lives in an an apartment on the beach. What’s not to like? Ben is 26. What more does he want?When he was a contestant on The Bachelorette, Ben was interesting. l guessed that he collected vinyl and read the latest Jonathan Franzen book when it came along. I wasn’t thinking big stuff, just that he bothered at all. Now he seems like he watches the Denver Broncos. He is that guy.None of these women will give him a hard time, but Lauren B is particularly soft.Men are always claiming – and it’s nice of them – to want complicated women, but deep down they all wish they could abandon their politics and run off with Lauren B. She is that girl.