John Carty stands on a platform inside a vast warehouse on Adelaide’s outskirts. On the floor below and behind him are rack after rack of shelves and drawers housing tens of thousands of Australian Indigenous artefacts.There are about 5,000 spears and 3,000 boomerangs here, and hundreds upon hundreds of shields, thousands of pieces of decorative art and costume, and all sorts of curios – from the crayons the Adelaide tram driver-cum-ethnologist-cum-autodidact Charles Mountford encouraged the desert people to draw with, to a “pearl shell” fashioned from a buffed tin lid that was collected on the Canning stock route.It’s the biggest single collection of Australian Indigenous material culture in the world. And much if it is here in storage for the South Australian Museum, Australia’s second oldest – and one of its most traditional – collecting institutions. Most of it will never see the light of day in exhibitions, or be displayed in the public galleries, which are already filled to bursting with other Indigenous objects.And so these items stay in this vast aircraft hangar-like structure because of enduring empirical and colonial collection practices. That may, however, be changing quickly.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   John Carty among the racks of artefacts. He says there is an urgent need to reconnect Indigenous people with ancestral objects. Photograph: Paul DaleyCarty, the museum’s 39-year-old head of anthropology, surveys the collection from up here, a red rag, potentially, to the museological conservatives who are content with orthodoxy.He shakes his head and says: “These kinds of collections are utterly meaningless without Aboriginal people attached to them. Without Aboriginal voices and families and meanings, they are just pieces of wood – just sticks without stories.”Carty aims to connect these items with the descendants of the people who made and used them. They are the living who believe ancestral spirits are incarnate in these objects, that all of this wood, animal bone, shell, stone and fibre encompasses the history of the land and the creationist animals of a past that dwarfs by tens of thousands years the comparative minutes elapsed since colonisation.Melbourne-born Carty comes from an academic track at the University of Melbourne and the Australian National University. But he has been deep into the field, especially in the central deserts and Arnhem Land, and is admired for his knowledge of Indigenous art and material culture. He has done work for both the National Museum of Australia and the British Museum, an institution that is facing increasing acrimony and pressure over its refusal to give back some of the items in its rich Indigenous Australian collection. The Gweagal shield and the fight to change the British Museum's attitude to seized artefacts | Paul Daley Anyone with an eye on the Indigenous cultural space observed closely as the BM took a battering while negotiating the controversy enshrouding its 2015 Indigenous Australia: Enduring Civilisation exhibition in London, and a later show at the National Museum of Australia to which it loaned, and later returned to the UK, precious Aboriginal artefacts.For some time the South Australian Museum has been determined to modify its approach to the Indigenous peoples whose artefacts it holds, especially since the arrival of its current director, Brian Oldman, from the BM in 2014. But there can be little doubt the debate about the BM’s Indigenous collection has hardened the Adelaide museum’s resolve to take a global lead in connecting with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people – even if that means, in Carty’s words, “giving some things back”.It is, Carty says, critical for the SAM to “be out front of, rather than struggling to catch up, to that wave”.“That’s what we hope to do – show real leadership around being brave and open and honest, about the history of the museum … with Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal people side by side … I came here [in 2015] to apply for the job … with an awareness of just how important the collections were from my background in anthropology and interest in Aboriginal material culture … Alice [Beale, senior collections manager/anthropology] brought me here [to the storage warehouse] as an introduction.“And standing here I had a very personal and visceral sense of what I was applying for. Which was not just this job, which seemed interesting and important. But it was this responsibility that went to the heart of who I was as an Australian, and what responsibilities I understand myself to have. The whole idea of what I was applying for was transformed when I walked in here, because it became personal.” The ‘up-the-guts’ narrativeThe map of continental Australia explains the museum’s vast Indigenous collection, amassed over a century from its opening in 1856. From 1862 until 1911 South Australia administered the vast central/northern centre that is the Northern Territory. And the Western Australian Museum did not open until 1891, so the SAM was actively collecting in its space for 35 years. Erase the lines on the map that delineate WA and the territory from South Australia and, for a critical period of post-British invasion, Indigenous dispossession and resistance, the SAM had half the continent to collect from.  Maybe a way of holding on to stories is to give some things backJohn Carty “The time-depth of the collection is amazing because it goes back in time in ways that other museums don’t … because the Northern Territory was part of South Australia. So we are able to tell that whole ‘up-the-guts’ narrative of the continent – exploration, settlement, conflict,” Carty says.It’s a complex, often ugly and disturbing story, of black-white war, of violent eviction from ancestral lands, of the theft of natural resources and of ongoing oppression, that manifests in stolen children, British nuclear tests at Maralinga (blackfellas were carelessly exposed while attempts were made to protect most non-Indigenous people) and the shameful scourge of deaths in custody.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A ‘pearl shell’ crafted from a buffed tin lid that was collected on the Canning stock route. Photograph: Kerrie Drogemuller/South Australian MusuemCarty, meanwhile, speaks of the urgent need to “invert the power structure between museums and Indigenous people”, about reconnecting owners to ancestral objects and to opening genuine discussions with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people about, if needs be, returning collection material to communities.“What is the model of custodianship moving forward? Is it one that keeps stuff or one that opens the doors and explores new ways of holding material, holding stories – and maybe a way of holding on to stories is to give some things back.” But institutions like the SAM, modelled, as it is, on the empirical big daddy, the BM, aren’t traditionally inclined to give stuff back. The unedifying race was always to beg, borrow or steal the most cultural material to document the decline of what was (fallaciously) thought to be, by the 20th century, the vanishment of the race.“Yeah. I’m kind of looking forward to those conversations,” Carty says. “I haven’t had them yet … the museum has its bricks-and-mortar kind of model and that’s evolving. And maybe our responsibilities lie not just in keeping stuff safe within our walls but also in keeping things safe behind other people’s walls or other people’s ideas of walls – which might be country or it might be local community museums.” As we talk, we wander among the shelves and Alice Beale retrieves a few of the innumerable items she and Carty find compelling and intriguing.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An Eora club that was converted into a whip by Lieutenant David Blackburn, who landed in Australia with the first fleet. Photograph: Philip Jones I mean, talk about the history of Australia in one object! One is an Eora man’s wooden club. It was collected by Lieutenant David Blackburn who arrived in Port Jackson on the first fleet ship Supply on 18 January 1788. Blackburn modified the club, adding four rope lashes to transform this utilitarian Indigenous object – intended for hunting or combat – into a whip.“I mean, talk about the history of Australia in one object!” Carty says. “You could build a whole exhibition about 1788 and everything after on this.”Beale holds up a Yidindji shield, fashioned in the north Queensland rainforest. Painted in 1938 at the Mulgrave river, it depicts three species of fish and turtle – all totemic animals. Norman Tindale, the giant of South Australian anthropology who was attached to the museum for 70 years (and is still known affectionately around its halls as “Tinny”) filmed it being painted. The legacy of Tindale and his vast ethnographic collection – including hair samples, face casts, drawings and family trees – with which he “mapped” Aboriginal Australia – looms large here. “I didn’t know him and I don’t call him ‘Tinny’ because I feel like I have to remain objective and critical about the collectors rather than being their colleague,” Carty says. “In terms of reinterpreting these collections into the future we’ve got to have a level of objectivity about those things.“A lot of what he did looks deeply ethnographic. It looks like the objectification of Aboriginal people by a whitefella … You know, a lot of these things make it look like whitefellas just documenting Aboriginal people. “But at the heart of it was that he was kind of working against the currents of the time, which is to say, ‘No, Aboriginal people have been here forever – they have strong links to country, they have strong family connections, they have strong cultural mores in play.’“This is my struggle with Tindale. His legacy is really complicated. His legacy is one of the great ethnographic traditions of just vacuuming up knowledge of Aboriginal people. You can be really critical of that and I think there’s a way of operating there that I’d be uncomfortable with as an anthropologist today. “But we also need to hold it in tension with the fact of what I see every day at the museum – Aboriginal people coming in and using those collections for contemporary purposes, for contemporary politics like native title, but also for really personal stuff, whether it’s stolen generations material – just finding out a little bit more about your grandfather or your great-grandfather. In a sense his legacy is one that Aboriginal people have to determine. It’s not for me to say.” We stop and look at bark paintings from the Field Islands, collected in 1887 by Captain F Carrington. They are perhaps the earliest northern barks taken by white people and were said by Charles Mountford – who also had a long association with the SAM – to represent the only remaining art of the “extinct” islanders.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Yuendumu school doors represent a turning point in the history of modern Australian Indigenous art. Photograph: South Australian MuseumLeaning up against a wall in a hallway not far from this vast room are the Yuendumu doors, perhaps the most significant objects in the history of modern Australian Indigenous art. They represent an epoch, the 1980s, when the artists of Yuendumu began transferring their ground drawings, first to canvas and then to the doors of the local school, marking the consolidation of an enduring Warlpiri art movement. Why are such precious objects just leaning up against a wall?Beale and Carty explain that storage space is tight, so things are not always kept in ideal conditions. Last year the pair and others rushed to the warehouse during a terrible Adelaide storm to find water dripping on to the Yuendumu doors and other objects. They arrived just in time to prevent serious damage. For days afterwards objects were moved around as the ceiling dripped into buckets.The room full of bonesWe step into a room with several long rows of shelves. Each row contains hundreds of cardboard boxes, some stacked four and five deep.The boxes read JAW, FEMUR, RIBS, SKULL.The bodies or body parts of some 5,000 Indigenous Australians are kept in this room. When we walk in Carty nods, says nothing. He leans against the bench at the back, legs crossed, arms folded across his chest.Kevin Rudd's Indigenous museum was a good idea. But let's not leave it to politicians | Paul Daley There is so much to be said about these remains, how they were acquired, why they are still here. I’ve written thousands upon thousands of words about Australia’s – and the world’s – appalling trade in Indigenous Australian body parts. I’ve stood in a similar warehouse in Canberra where the National Museum of Australia keeps its collection of remains belonging to 500-plus Indigenous people.Collections such as this are a legacy of many things, largely shameful: the colonial killings of tens of thousands of Indigenous Australians, some specifically for body parts; the body snatchers who ransacked burial grounds to meet the unholy 18th, 19th and 20th century markets for Indigenous skeletons; and the imposition of modern structures – roads, railways, public swimming pools, blocks of flats – on what is, and what will always be, Indigenous land.Most 19th century Australian collecting institutions have amassed Indigenous body parts. Most once displayed them with pride; one of the last to stop doing so was the Australian Institute of Anatomy in Canberra (the precursor to the National Museum) that displayed skeletal remains until the 1980s. The SAM last actively collected or displayed Indigenous remains in the 1940s, while the National Museum is at the forefront of efforts to return remains from overseas countries to their people. Both the SAM and the National Museum continue to receive Indigenous remains – but only as part of national and state repatriation processes. As I stand in this room filled with boxes of the dead, I’m struck by – angered and emotionally unsettled by – so many anomalies. I wonder: would Australia go to greater efforts to determine the identities and find the families of non-Indigenous Australians? Would it not make the effort and spend the money for a permanent keeping place to the unknown dead if they were not Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander remains? Instructively, federal government plans to build such a keeping place for the unidentified Indigenous dead have been on hold since about 2014. How would the average Australian feel if they couldn’t bury their dead? It’s unthinkable I once helped remove the body of an Australian world war one veteran from a drainage ditch on the European western front before a bulldozer, engaged in repair work, filled it in again. Extensive efforts were made to identify him. He was later buried in one of those serene commonwealth cemeteries of neat blond stone and clipped rosemary and hebe and endless lark song that dot the countryside of French and Flemish Flanders.“There is a disconnect in the Australian psyche between our respect for what happened in overseas theatres of war and the structural silence on the conflicts with Aboriginal people here,” Carty says. “We pretend Australian identity was forged in conflicts overseas when in truth it was founded on conflicts right here. “You see that in the disparity between how we treat the dead. Australia will spend millions of dollars repatriating or relocating the remains of a digger in Europe, while Aboriginal people in Australia have to fight to get tiny amounts of money to rebury their ancestors, thousands of whom languish in Australian museums. “How would the average Australian feel if they couldn’t bury their dead? It’s unthinkable. Or it should be unthinkable. We wouldn’t accept it for an Anzac. We shouldn’t ask Aboriginal people to accept it either.”‘Yeah, come on in – see the canoe’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A photo donated to the museum in 1904: ‘We knew it was our family and our canoe,’ says Michael YoungLast year Michael Young, a Mildura-based Barkindji man with relatives scattered over ancestral lands across New South Wales, contacted the SAM on behalf of some of his elders. A May 2016 history about the Pooncarie mission and school pictured a woman, Nan Nelly, and her two girls – Ivy and Maggie Johnston – in a bark canoe on the Darling river near Avoca. The photograph was taken some time before 1904, when a Mr DH Cudmore donated the canoe and the photograph to the museum.“We saw the photo and Aunt Lottie [Maggie’s daughter] recognised the people in the photograph and so we knew it was our family and our canoe,” Young says. “And we found out the canoe was in the museum.“But we’d never had much joy with museums – never made to feel especially welcome. You know, security were always a bit overzealous when the black people come in to see their things. “So it was surprising. John [Carty] said, ‘Yeah, come on in – see the canoe.’ We had a great day of it. The museum was so welcoming for our people.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A Barkindji elder lays her hands on the canoe: ‘This is what our collection is about. These women had waited their whole lives to touch it,’ Carty says. Photograph: John Carty/South Australian MuseumA group of about 10 Barkindji people visited the SAM. Security guards watched tentatively as the elders (two of whom, Aunt Priscilla and Aunt Lottie, use wheelchairs) laid their hands on the vessel. Everyone, including many museum staff, wept. “We were all just standing in the gallery crying,” Carty says. “I was crying. This is what our collection is about. These women had waited their whole lives to touch it and see it. And they just rang us up and said, ‘Could we come?’ We said, ‘Of course.’ And they said, ‘We weren’t expecting you to say that.’ “I’m thinking, ‘Of course – that’s what a fucking museum is for.’ But I guess that’s the moment we’re in. Museums have to become museums for everyone rather than just for a certain niche audience in the community. And how an Australian museum becomes a place where Aboriginal people feel empowered, welcome and proud is still a work in progress.”Ivy’s granddaughter, Aunty Sister Girl, says: “Being there, touching that canoe, just blew my mind. I couldn’t stop crying. I still can’t when I think about it. John and the museum were so wonderful to us. Nobody has ever treated us that way before. With respect. Never.”There have been tentative discussions about a Barkindji museum on country, a place where culture and heritage and history – describing how the ancestors worked the river on canoes – could be showcased.Carty says such discussions, should they evolve, “would be a really meaningful way to engage with them – in a long-term loan or a return, if that’s what is most important”.The SAM’s director, Brian Oldman, together with the board and the museum’s Aboriginal advisers, chose Carty from a field of international applicants because he had a clear view of where he wanted to take the museum in relation to its Indigenous collection over the next decade – and where he thought it should be in a century.How the Indigenous art recognised by Unesco draws us into Australia's real history | Paul Daley “He was the clear person for this position to lead the transformation and the redefinition of Australian Aboriginal material culture at this museum, and it’s manifesting itself very rapidly in that respect,” Oldman says.“When I started [in January 2014] one of the glaring observations for me was the gap between where this amazing museum should be in terms of Australian Aboriginal material culture and where it was … We can tell the material cultural story for virtually the whole of Australia but clearly we’ve got some areas of depth … You say we’re conservative but I’d actually argue that historically the South Australian Museum has been at the forefront of Aboriginal material culture and I think we should be playing the leading role now.“I would extend that into the area of custodianship and the sharing of culture … I have the view that the collections are there as part of a shared culture and that museums are much more [now] about being custodians and nurturers of culture … it can be done through exhibitions, it can be done through the travelling of objects, it can be done through the virtual access to objects and, yes, it can be done through putting an object back into a community. “We shouldn’t get too polarised about saying the object is owned by the museum or that the object is now going to be owned by someone else in another place. I would see it much more as a sharing of the cultural contents that that collection item gives. And there are a number of ways of sharing that cultural content and, yeah, sure, in some instances it may be that that object goes back to that community. But there are many stopping-off points between it sitting in the museum and it sitting in a community.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Glenn Iseger-Pilkington, the first Indigenous person employed in a senior curatorial role at the museum. Photograph: Mark Gambino/British CouncilOne of the museum’s imperatives is to increase the number of Indigenous staff who are curating, researching and making decisions about the collection.Last September Carty made an early statement with his appointment as curator of Aboriginal art and material culture of Glenn Iseger-Pilkington, a 35-year-old visual artist and curatorial expert from the Kimberley, of Wadjarri, Nhanda and Nyoongar – as well as Dutch and Scottish – ancestry. It seems incongruous that the museum with the biggest, most important, Indigenous collection in the world had not previously had an Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander person in a senior curatorial role.An Indigenous curator for Indigenous artefacts: South Australia breaks new ground Late last year Rebecca Richards (a Adnyamathanha and Barngarla woman and Rhodes scholar who has researched Mountford’s life and work) was selected for the museum’s Pathways cadet program. Carty and Oldman aim to employ many more Indigenous people to delve in to the collections and link them back to the cultures and peoples they reflect.Carty had to find the money to hire Iseger-Pilkington. So he approached a museum volunteer, the oncologist Marg Davy – who had spent time as a doctor in Indigenous communities – to fund the position.“He approached me and talked about the importance of Aboriginal curators at a very senior level,” Davy says. “I wanted to make a bequest that I could see the benefit of – and I have seen those benefits, very quickly.“John is open and engaging, very upfront and candid about what he is doing. He doesn’t talk nonsense. And, I can tell you, he has had great success at convincing some of the cream of Adelaide society to part with their money to support what he is doing.”The first major exhibition on Carty’s watch is about the power of the yidaki (didgeridoo). The exhibition will be anchored in the life of the esteemed yidaki player Djalu Gurruwiwi, who lives at Wallaby Beach near Yirrkala in north-east Arnhem Land.“We’ve got a lot of yidakis in our collection,” Carty says. “And we could’ve just mounted a display of yidakis that would’ve said, ‘Well, these are didgeridoos and this is what people used to do with them.” Instead we are presenting them as a critical part of a living, ongoing culture.”The exhibition will encompass film, audio and performance.We talk about the cult status of Djalu and the forthcoming exhibition as we walk through one of the dark, silent galleries featuring dozens of boomerangs.“You’ve got a lot of boomerangs,” I say.The old man and the sea (and Gotye): the story of 'Australia's only guru' He responds, “Yeah, I reckon we are telling the story of boomerangs but we are also telling visitors we’ve got an awful lot of boomerangs. There’s this idea that museums should be arbiters of fact and should just present an objective view of the world today and let the audience understand it. But museums are an expression of white culture. “They’re not objective institutions and so everything that we put on display is already positioned, it’s already political. It’s already got power invested in it through processes of history. So we can’t pretend that just putting things in a display case is a neutral thing to do. Every museum has to question the politics of display.“If we are telling the stories of boomerangs but we are not telling the stories of colonisation, frontier conflict, of native title, of stolen generations, of human rights and all these other battles that Aboriginal people have had to fight, if we are just showing boomerangs, then we are effectively abdicating our responsibility for the truth … if we are not telling those stories then we are not a museum for all Australians. We are a museum for ethnographers. We are just an average version of a British Museum.”At least as far as its Indigenous collection goes, Carty is determined nobody will mistake the South Australian Museum for little Britain.