Men in movies aren’t friends; they’re buddies. They’re chalk-and-cheese odd couples. They’re partners in crime. They’re Holmes and Watson, Butch and Sundance, Bill and Ted, Riggs and Murtaugh, Maverick and Iceman. Either that or they’re members of a team, bound together by a common purpose: beating the enemy, winning the match, robbing the bank. If they have differences, they settle them with a punch-up and move on. If you’re looking for a more nuanced movie take on platonic male relationships, good luck. The closest you’ll get is a comedy bromance such as The Hangover, which makes sure to compensate with an excess of “We’re not gay” jokes. It’s just not manly to take too close an interest in such matters, is it? Or could it be that male friendships really aren’t that complicated?They are certainly not as complicated as women’s. In contrast to this arid movie manscape, there exists a proud tradition of films dealing with intense, complex, female relationships. These are not feminised buddy movies in the Thelma and Louise vein; more the opposite. These are stories of female friendships marked by conflict, hysteria, paranoia, loss of contact with reality, loss or merging of identity, psychological meltdown. You could call them “frenemyship” movies.Queen of Earth review – closeup navel-gazing It is a genre that has produced some of the most critically acclaimed films in the canon, when you think of works by Woody Allen, Ingmar Bergman, Roman Polanski and Robert Altman. In recent times alone you could include David Lynch’s Mulholland Drive, Peter Strickland’s The Duke of Burgundy, Darren Aronofsky’s Black Swan and Oliver Assayas’s Clouds Of Sils Maria.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Laura Harring and Melissa George in David Lynch’s Mulholland Drive. Photograph: Publicity image from film companyJoining them now is Queen of Earth, written and directed by rising US film-maker Alex Ross Perry. It is a searing, intense almost-suspense thriller tightly focused on two women. The movie opens with a closeup of Elisabeth Moss’s face, streaked with mascara and tears, midway through a bitter breakup with her cheating boyfriend. Moss’s character, Catherine, is also reeling from the death of her father, an overbearing artist whose depression led him to suicide. It doesn’t get much happier from there on in. Catherine is invited to the lakeside summer house of her old friend Virginia, played by Katherine Waterston, to recuperate. They are two women who have yet to realise they are no longer friends at all. Virginia is cool to the point of cruel, almost encouraging of Catherine’s mania as they lock into a cycle of jealousy, betrayal and emotional scab-picking that spirals towards outright psychological horror. “For some viewers, the acidity level of Perry’s movie will be too high to stomach,” wrote Anthony Lane in the New Yorker. “For others – anyone who thinks that there are too many warm hugs in Strindberg, for example – Queen of Earth awaits.” Queen of Earth was made very adamantly ‘in the tradition of’ …Alex Ros Perry “One big thing we were always talking about and we were always aware of was that this was a movie being made very adamantly ‘in the tradition of’ …” says Perry. The immediate precedent that springs to mind is Ingmar Bergman’s 1966 classic Persona, which uses a similarly minimal setup of two women in a secluded location. Liv Ullmann plays an actor who has inexplicably stopped speaking; Bibi Andersson is her nurse, who fills the silence with talk that becomes personal, confessional, confrontational, accusatory. Bergman blurs boundaries between the women’s identities, between dream and reality, past and present, inner and outer worlds. And again, the dynamic heads towards feverish mania, taking the audience, and even the film itself, with it; in one memorable scene the image literally burns out to white, as if the film strip has caught in the projector gate and melted.Perry hasn’t watched Persona since he was in college, he says, but he avoided the obvious reference points. Instead he referred to Bergman’s later Face to Face (in which Ullmann plays a psychologist having a breakdown). He similarly avoided Robert Altman’s 3 Women, another landmark of the genre, in favour of his earlier, less accomplished, Images. Other reference points for Queen of Earth would be Roman Polanski’s Repulsion – made the year before Persona - in which Catherine Deneuve is dragged into her own personal hell (largely by men this time), and Perry also nods to Interiors, Woody Allen’s followup to Annie Hall, which ditched the urban wit in favour of restrained, serious domestic drama centred on three sisters. Interiors is essentially Allen’s own nod to Bergman. “Everything from every one of these movies could somehow belong in any of them,” says Perry. “A Polanski-type freakout, where it’s all happening in the character’s head, could happen in a Fassbinder movie.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Trailer for Queen of EarthPerry acknowledges that this type of story only works with women: “In movies where a man has this kind of breakdown, somebody gets murdered. In movies where a woman has this kind of breakdown, the pain goes inward, rather than outward. And that is much more exciting.”You will not have to wait long for the next feminine freakout. This week sees the UK release of Nicolas Winding Refn’s The Neon Demon. Stylistically and geographically, its Los Angeles fashion world is poles apart from Queen of Earth - somebody does get murdered. But beneath the movie’s pristine pop-culture polish and fastidious detachment, it bears many of the hallmarks of the genre. Elle Fanning’s ingenue model is taken in by a veritable coven of sculpted, coutured frenemies, whose apparently benign intentions conceal a litany of womanly sins: they are catty, duplicitous, vacuous, narcissistic, predatory. They’re evil lesbians and worse. Fanning’s grounded innocence soon evaporates in this hallucinatory hall of mirrors, though Refn (working with two female screenwriters) pushes beyond personal mania and through into depraved occult horror, somewhere between Dario Argento, Guy Bourdin and Russ Meyer. I find anything with women to be more interesting. There is so much more to work withNicolas Winding Refn “I find anything with women to be more interesting,” Refn told an interviewer recently. “There is so much more to work with when it comes to women as opposed to men.” But opinions are already split on Refn’s politics. “Is The Neon Demon gruesome misogyny or brilliant feminist commentary? Can it be both?” asked Salon’s Andrew O’Hehir. Expect plenty more debate like this. Refn has stated he considers the movie “beyond feminist, because it’s not, quote unquote, political”.The obvious reason male film-makers have been drawn towards female characters is that until fairly recently, women were not permitted to make their own movies. They were permitted to watch them, though. And unsurprisingly women were not unanimously taken with the male-dominated westerns, crime thrillers and war films on offer during cinema’s 1930s-50s golden age. That gave rise to the “woman’s picture”, made specifically for women, and responsible for many of the stars of the era: Bette Davis, John Crawford, Barbara Stanywck. They were still overwhelmingly made by men – George Cukor, Douglas Sirk, Max Ophüls – and they regularly hinged on madness, hysteria, angst, domestic confinement and other forms of mental torment that never seemed to trouble the likes of Clark Gable or Humphrey Bogart.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ellen Fanning in The Neon Demon. Photograph: Allstar/Icon Film DistributionYou could extend that line from women’s pictures, and Sirk in particular, to the 1970s and 80s generation of gay auteurs such as Rainer Werner Fassbinder, Pedro Almodóvar, François Ozon and Todd Haynes, whose work regularly examines women’s inner lives, often in the register of camp melodrama (imagine a movie called Men On The Verge Of A Nervous Breakdown). Yet another of Perry’s inspirations for Queen of Earth, he says, was a Fassbinder double bill he attended, of The Bitter Tears of Petra von Kant (in which a lesbian Berlin fashion designer’s meltdown is fuelled by alcohol and sexual jealousy) and Martha (an almost comically twisted study of domestic torment). Fassbinder’s 1974 classic Ali: Fear Eats the Soul was a reinterpretation of Sirk’s All That Heaven Allows, as was Haynes’s Far From Heaven. Meanwhile, Ozon mined Sirk’s Imitation Of Life for 8 Women, a camp collision of catty grandes dames such as Catherine Deneuve and Fanny Ardant. In Ozon’s Swimming Pool, it is writer Charlotte Rampling and her younger, more nubile house guest Ludivine Sagnier whose frenemyship escalates fatally, although as usual, fantasy and reality are hard to separate.Do these male-made films accurately reflect women’s realities? And if so, why do so many of them revel in pitting women against each other and driving them crazy? Intentionally or otherwise, these films suggest that bitchiness, hysteria, mania, and emotional complexity is all “women’s stuff”. They cordon off such emotions on the “female” side of the gender divide. It’s not dissimilar to the function slasher movies serve for teenage boys: it’s not the gore and violence that really appeals to them, it’s identification with the screaming female victims, the “final girls”. Perhaps the men who make these movies and the men who watch them (myself included) gain some cathartic - possibly even sadistic - satisfaction from, to put it bluntly, watching women lose their shit.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Liv Ullmann and Bibi Andersson in Bergman’s Persona. Photograph: Everett/Rex/Shutterstock“I don’t think there are any women in the majority of these films, just fantasies of women,” says Sophie Mayer, author of Political Animals: The New Feminist Cinema, who describes this as her “least favourite movie genre after torture porn”. Mayer sees depictions of women in the Bergman, Lynch, Strickland school (she has not seen Queen of Earth) more as reflections of their makers’ neuroses: “They feed off an obsession with the idea that women are irrational and uncanny, and they’re saturated by a fear of the mother and of female genitals – and of what women might get up to together, sexually and politically. If you have two women on screen, they either drive each other insane or become substitutes for each other. To preserve patriarchy, these films always have to show that women together will destroy one another.”There is much for feminist film critics to process here. Bergman’s Persona has been admiringly analysed by the likes of Susan Sontag and Camille Paglia. In her landmark book From Reverence to Rape, Molly Haskell lamented the 1970s movie landscape in comparison with women’s pictures of the 1940s. “Here we are today, with an unparalleled freedom of expression, and a record number of women performing … and we are insulted with the worst - the most abused, neglected and dehumanised - screen heroines in film history.”Critic Miriam Bale has isolated what she calls the “persona swap” subgenre, where two female characters merge identity – a key theme in the likes of Persona, 3 Women, Mulholland Drive. She’s not entirely uncritical: “These films are the favourites of so many women because they describe the complexities and conflicts of female friendship accurately, the unique joys and also darker aspects that often remain hidden or at least unacknowledged in real-life friendships,” she writes.Selina Robertson, of the feminist film network Club Des Femmes, is also ambivalent. The level of fetishisation and objectification in movies such as The Duke of Burgundy left her cold, she says, “but having said that, the characters are very interesting to watch”. Robertson would rather go and watch a film by Fassbinder or Bergman or, indeed, Perry, than any number of current female-oriented films: “There’s a side of those film-makers that they love women - a lot of film-makers don’t. They’re in love with women, they’re fascinated by women, they want to mine their inner lives.”There is another component to this equation: the actors. To attribute these films solely to their male creators would be to discount some of the most magnificent performances in cinema, and Elisabeth Moss’s measured-yet-reckless turn in Queen of Earth can sit proudly among them. “I knew I had an ace up my sleeve in the form of Elizabeth,” says Perry. Having worked with Moss before, he built potential for his actors’ collaboration into his screenplay, he says. “I made sure that the whole script was elastic enough that it could accommodate the input and suggestions and guiding hands of the performers. If you give actors an inch, they’ll bring you a mile.” Moss’s very participation was also an endorsement, he says. “I know she wouldn’t be playing that part if it wasn’t a great, strong female character, so the fact that she’s even in the movie means the script’s in good shape.”As gender equality in film-making improves, we are seeing more female film-makers’ perspectives, at last – on their own relationships, but also on those of men. Films such as Kelly Reichardt’s Old Joy or Claire Denis’s Beau Travail or Kathryn Bigelow’s The Hurt Locker have found angles on masculinity that men themselves seem to have missed. It can work both ways. The value of the outsider’s eye cannot be discounted, and should not be excluded. “Film is the best way to get into the inner lives of people who are different from you,” says Perry, “to enrich your understanding of something that is outside your own worldview. That’s why we watch movies.”This article was amended on 8 July 2016. An editing error led to the original version mis-titling Molly Haskell’s book From Reverence to Rape as From Rape to Reverence. This has been corrected. 