In my clearest memories of my grandmother, she was already gone in all the ways that mattered. She was in her 70s when I was born, and Alzheimer’s slowly stripped the person she had been out of her. So I only knew her, really, from the stories my mother told – those bits and pieces you stumble on when someone is inspired to share a memory. Which is to say, I knew her hardly at all.A few years ago, my parents and I were discussing jazz age Paris when the subject of my grandmother came up. “You know,” my father said casually, “she lived in Paris in the 1920s.”The Paris? Hemingway Paris? Picasso Paris? That Paris?“Sure,” my mother said. “And we have all the letters she wrote home.”Well, when I went home a few days later, I was carrying a box full of my grandmother’s letters.The story was much better than that casual mention had led me to believe. In 1923, my grandmother had left the US to go on a sort of Grand Tour with a friend. They went to England and were scheduled to head on to France and then Italy. Except that, when my grandmother got to Paris, she decided she wasn’t going home.So she got a job at the American library in Paris, rented a room at the American Girls’ Club, which provided accommodation and social activities to young women from the US, and wrote to her parents to announce her decision. They were less than thrilled, and a significant number of her letters involve lengthy accounts of her finances and dramatic declarations of how mature she has become, desperate attempts to convince them of the wisdom of her plan. Here is one of her more successful arguments: “I seem to have gotten more or less of a perspective on myself and to realise how spoiled and contrary I have always been. Of course it was your fault for spoiling me in the first place.”How could they argue with that?What I admire most about my grandmother during her time there is how she set out to suck the marrow from Parisian life. She worked and made friends, hung out at artists’ cafes and watering holes – Le Dôme, Harry’s New York Bar, Le Select – danced at the infamous nightclub Zelli’s until 4am, went on a number of dates and, most deliciously of all, had a romance with a French artist. “He is thoroughly fascinating,” she wrote. “He doesn’t speak any English so he’s very good for my French, and besides I like the way he kisses my hand.”She had caught the flu in the 1918 pandemic and was never quite well after that, so the late nights caught up with her and she became ill. After heading to the south of France to recover, she returned home. A few years later, she was married. Her Parisian adventure was over.Reading these letters was a revelation. Because, of course, even if I had known my grandmother, I wouldn’t have known this version of her, this brash and funny and curious and adventurous young woman who threw herself at life with the general force and enthusiasm of a hurricane.The more I thought about the contents of her letters, the sadder I became that this was all I had of her. We so often feel alone, certain that every problem we face is new. Yet reading her letters, I was startled to see that, aside from the slang, I could have written them when I was 23. We had the same worries – our families, our futures, our work, our weight, our romances, our friendships, our lives. It made me feel reassured that I wasn’t alone.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eleanor Brown: ‘What I most admire is how my grandmother set out to suck the marrow from Parisian life.’ Photograph: Joe Henson/HarperCollinsAll this made me wonder about what we are leaving behind. If our grandchildren, 100 years from now, want to get to know us, what will they find? In some respects, we are telling our stories more than ever before. We photograph our meals and post them on Instagram. We share our passing thoughts on Twitter. We mark life changes – new jobs, new relationships – on Facebook. We leave a trail of our movements by marking our location on Instagram. But it strikes me that the record we are leaving behind is much less intimate than letters written to someone’s family – it is curated with real awareness of an audience, and there is a slippage of honesty in that. We share not the truth, but what is most flattering. I recently read an interview with a teenage girl who said she might take as many as 70 selfies before finding one she found worthy of sharing. Seventy! That’s a part-time job.For all the detail, our adventures as portrayed on social media don’t necessarily add up to a coherent picture of what our life is like. And by using third-party services to communicate and document our lives, we are releasing control of those stories. We are leaving a detailed list of the days of our lives on Facebook, but what happens if Facebook goes out of business?So, what can we do?I believe we should think about our legacy. We should offer future generations the opportunity to get to know us, to connect with us, to learn from us. History often obscures the richness of individual stories in favour of an examination of trends, or a focus on the powerful. But in order to have a sum, there must be parts.I believe it matters that we leave stories that are authentic, intentional, and within our control. That means speaking as honestly as if we were confiding in our closest friends. It means taking the time to record the entire experience, including our thoughts on its meaning or importance. And it means sharing them on paper, or on digital files that we own and back up.I believe that as the world seems to become more fractured, as we bury our true selves under the veneer of public perfection, it is even more important to do what my grandmother did – to reach out across the years and whisper to each other, “You will make it through this. You are not alone. You have never been alone. I was here, too.”• The Light of Paris by Eleanor Brown is published by HarperCollins, £12.99. To order a copy for £10.65, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call the Guardian Bookshop on 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p on orders of more than £10, online only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.