I have spent many all-day sessions in theatres but none quite as powerful as Young Chekhov, which has moved triumphantly from Chichester to the National’s Olivier stage. Its only rival in my experience is the original RSC 1963 production of The Wars of the Roses, recently released on DVD. But while Shakespeare’s trilogy, with its bloodshed and civil war, left one exhausted, this combination of Platonov, Ivanov and The Seagull sends one out exhilarated. That is a tribute to Jonathan Kent’s production, David Hare’s version, Tom Pye’s design and a great company. But it is also because one learns so much about Chekhov in the course of a single day.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Great company’ … Beverley Klein, Emma Amos, Peter Egan and Debra Gillett in Ivanov. Photograph: Johan PerssonOn a first viewing, I made the obvious point: that you see Chekhov move from farce (Platonov) and melodrama (Ivanov) to the creation of a symphonic realism (The Seagull). But I was struck by something else at the Olivier: that Chekhov, for all his comprehensive compassion, was also a social satirist who saw that the characteristic Russian vice was a demented egotism. Thornton Wilder once wrote of Chekhov’s plays that: “No one hears what anyone else says. Everybody walks in a self-centred dream.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Desperate neediness’ … Anna Chancellor in The Seagull. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianBut an abstract idea is made tangible in Young Chekhov. Platonov, superbly played by James McArdle, is a feckless teacher who sees himself as a helpless victim of everyone else’s desire. Ivanov, now played by Geoffrey Streatfeild, who fits perfectly into the picture, is a ruined landowner obsessed by an overpowering sense of shame. And, when we get to The Seagull, Joshua James’s Konstantin exactly analyses the flaw in his mother (an unforgettable Anna Chancellor) when he says: “It’s not happening if it’s not about her.”Chekhov may sympathise with his protagonists; but they are all figures who view the world through the prism, and even the prison, of their own ego.I discovered another salient fact at the Olivier: that, while Chekhov’s plays seem bound by the demands of realism, they offer unexpected interpretative freedom to the director, designer and actor. Platonov is hardly a typical case since any version of the prolix original is bound to be an adaptation. Michael Frayn produced one version in Wild Honey: Helena Kaut-Howson a radically different one in Sons Without Fathers which set the action in modern Russia. David Hare says he has stuck closer to Chekhov’s original plan.Anna Chancellor: ‘I’m a bit “light ent” for those monumental classic parts’ What is fascinating is how each version yields totally different performances. My chief memory of Ian McKellen in Wild Honey is of his manic exuberance. Jack Laskey in the Kaut-Howson version was a figure of volatile despair. McArdle, partly because of his Scottish accent, reminded me of David Tennant as Hamlet in his mischievous wit and eye for social hypocrisy. But what McArdle added was an air of little-boy-lost innocence as if in denial that he was the architect of the surrounding chaos.Ivanov has a more settled text and a longer stage history. In recent years the title role has been played by a wide variety of actors including Derek Jacobi, John Wood, Alan Bates, Ralph Fiennes and Kenneth Branagh. Each has brought his own particular qualities to the role but one key moment illustrates the creative latitude Chekhov provides. When Ivanov’s neighbour dipped into his own pocket to help Ivanov pay off the interest on his debts, Branagh stared silently at the proffered money and fell to the floor in a dishevelled heap: Streatfeild at the same point sits with his back to us and goes rigid with guilt as if his humiliation could go no further. Both approaches are equally valid: they simply confirm that Chekhov’s plays, like Shakespeare’s, are coloured by the temperament of the individual performer.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Harsh world … Olivia Vinall as Nina in The Seagull. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianDavid Hare on Young Chekhov: 'thrilling sunbursts of anger and romanticism' Chekhov’s women offer exactly the same freedom. I must have seen a score of great actors play Arkadina in The Seagull including Peggy Ashcroft, Vanessa Redgrave, Judi Dench, Joan Plowright and Susan Fleetwood. What Chancellor brings to the role is not just the character’s untrammelled egotism but also her desperate neediness: you feel her very being is threatened by Trigorin’s possible desertion, which is why she uses every weapon in her sexual armoury to persuade him to quit the country estate. Olivia Vinall’s Nina, the third in a remarkable trio of performances the actor gives in a single day, also differs from previous Ninas in suggesting the character is a water-nymph who, like the Ondine of legend, cannot survive in the harsh world of reality. We tend to think of Chekhov’s characters as fixed in their historical moment. What this brilliant trilogy proves is that, while born solipsists, they also possess the endless susceptibility to reinterpretation that is the hallmark of great drama.The Young Chekhov season – presenting three plays singly and as an all-day experience on selected dates – is at the National Theatre, London, until 8 October.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Coloured by temperament’ … a scene from Platonov by Anton Chekhov at Chichester. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the Guardian