Delicate light touches the tops of the Black Mountains, and papery ash leaves littering the narrow road outside Llangattock form swirling eddies in the vortex dragged by a passing car. It is good to be back in border country. I feel my body unclench, the autumn atmosphere a potent tonic.The Llangattock Escarpment is a three-mile-long outcropping of the limestone which buffers the red sandstone of the agricultural Black Mountains from the coal measures of the (post-) industrial South Wales Valleys. The cultures corresponding to each are close physically but worlds apart politically. It is a striking study in geopolitics, in how culture grows from the ground, as affected as crops by the bedrock beneath; as if socialism and strikes thrive in certain soils.Llangattock’s limestone was once quarried and hauled over Mynydd Llangatwg to the ironworks at Nantyglo, starting point for the 1839 Newport Rising. As I wander among the grassed-over scars, it seems remarkable how quickly nature equalises archaeology; it wouldn’t take a huge leap of imagination to see these industrial spoilheaps as neolithic cairns (which can also be found here). The caves dotting Mynydd Llangatwg were used as furtive weapon caches by the Chartists, a lost political tribe who spoke in a powerful tongue we seem to have forgotten.Nature has suffered us at Llangattock, but has also had help. The updraft at Craig y Cilau, at the escarpment’s western edge, is occupied by a wonderful wealth of birdlife, testament to conscientious conservation effort. A kestrel is pinned to the wind, searching for prey in periglacial boulder streams. Two sparrowhawks sail so close I could hit them with a pebble if I were so inclined. Red kites make long, elastic wingbeats between endless glides. And there is a whiplash flash of a peregrine, closely dogged by a raven.It also hosts botanical treasure. The lesser whitebeam grows almost exclusively here. In 1947 its fragile existence was threatened by army practice in the area, but Labour MP Tudor Watkins intervened in the Commons, and the former miner saved the trees from the mortars. Today they cling to their cliff-perch, bright with berries, oblivious survivors of tumultuous times.• This article was amended on 5 November 2015 to correct the spelling of Mynydd Llangatwg.