After his memoir Dangerous was very publicly dumped by his publisher, hard-right professional provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos has announced he will instead self-publish the book – and that he will sue Simon & Schuster for $10m for backing out of the deal.The memoir will be the first book to be published under his own Dangerous Books label, which will specialise in titles by authors who “can’t get published”. The venture was revealed as part of Milo Inc, a new media venture announced by Yiannopoulos.The news came as the former tech editor on rightwing website Breitbart said he planned to sue Simon & Schuster after it cancelled his memoir in February, after a radio interview surfaced in which he appeared to condone paedophilia. Yiannopoulos had claimed that he was paid a $250,000 (£200,000) advance for the book.Speaking in a YouTube livecast last week, he said: “I want to send them a message that they can never again do this to a libertarian or a conservative.”Dangerous is now expected to be published in summer, following Yiannopoulos’s tour of US colleges, titled Troll Academy, which starts on Monday. According to the DailyCaller website, a source close to the British-born rightwinger said: “So much of the spotlight is on Milo and the tour, but the book is going to do amazing numbers and authors who can’t get published can find a voice with Dangerous Books.” The source added: “Simon & Schuster has more leftist rules than Facebook and censored his book to hell, but Dangerous Books is a free-speech platform.”Should it appear, Dangerous will be the first book announced by Yiannopoulos that has made it into print. Two other projects – on Gamergate and Silicon Valley – failed to materialise, despite being heavily trailed by the controversialist.Yiannopoulos claimed that his new venture is backed by $12m from anonymous donors, according to Vanity Fair. Eyeing up his usual targets for bile, Yiannopoulos, who boasts of being banned by Twitter following trolling of Ghostbusters star Leslie Jones, claimed in a press release that the company would make the “lives of journalists, professors, politicians, feminists, Black Lives Matter activists, and other professional victims a living hell”.The release added: “This isn’t some vanity nameplate on a personal blog. This is a fully tooled-up talent factory and management company dedicated to the destruction of political correctness and the progressive left.” Speaking to Vanity Fair, he claimed he had access to talent “no one else knows about”. “All the funniest, smartest, most interesting young YouTubers and all the rest of them who hate feminism, who hate political correctness,” he said.After a high-profile campaign from writers, booksellers and protest groups, Dangerous was eventually dropped by Simon & Schuster when a clip of Yiannopoulos speaking on radio emerged online where he said the age of consent was “not this black and white thing” and that relationships “between younger boys and older men … can be hugely positive experience”. He was deserted by his former supporters on the US far right, including fellow Breitbart staff who threatened to walk if he was not sacked and the American Conservative Union, which had booked him to speak at its conference.He later issued a clarification through social media, claiming he found child abuse “absolutely disgusting” and added: “In most cases – you guys know – if I say something outrageous or offensive, in most cases my only regret is that I didn’t piss off more people, but in this case if I could do it again I wouldn’t phrase things the same way. Because it’s led to confusion.”A spokesman at Simon & Schuster told the Guardian: “Although we have not seen any complaint filed by Mr Yiannopoulos and have not yet been served, we will defend ourselves vigorously against any action he may bring against Threshold Editions and Simon & Schuster. We stand behind our cancellation of Mr Yiannopoulos’s book and believe any suit by him to be entirely without merit.”