Nevada’s Black Rock desert is not a hospitable place when you need to check your email. At the Burning Man festival in September, I was trying to get online between dust storms, travelling between camps on the vast playa in the desert, searching for a functional antenna and trying to find enough shade to see my phone screen. Festival life was literally passing me by, on decorated bicycles, cars turned into moving art, on stilts, or just staggering by.But when I finally found a thin Wi-Fi signal to download mail, most of what I was downloading was spam. I spent several frustrating hours looking for enough internet to get just the headers for my mail, but even reading nothing but headers, the spam outstripped my connectivity. I wouldn’t have bothered checking email from a desert, but was in the middle of an intercontinental move, a bunch of time-sensitive political campaigns with the Electronic Frontier Foundation, the negotiation for the sale of my next novel, and an intense discussion with my business partners at Boing Boing. In the end, I missed some pretty important stuff.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   It’s not easy to use a smartphone in a desert during a dust storm.Photograph: Cory Doctorow/flickrAnd so began my anti-spam campaign in earnest. I started with something seemingly conventional: clicking the unsubscribe links at the bottom of spams. I’d never done this, figuring that confirming an email had reached its destination would invite more spam. But laws like the US CAN-SPAM Act and the UK Privacy and Electronic Communications Regulations impose stiff penalties on companies that fail to honour unsubscribe requests or provide an unsubscribe link, so I figured it could be worth a shot.Here’s the surprise: though a small amount of fraud got through my filters, almost all my spam was “legitimate” email. It wasn’t sent by criminals trying to defraud me, but from businesses and causes I’d actually heard of.Movietickets.com, Adopt a Classroom, Rstreet Patent and Copyright – from the mundane to the expert, this was the footprint of my life manifest through email, most of it not given explicit permission and none of it wanted.I spent the following 30 days unsubscribing from around 3,000 email lists, systemically, tediously, using Control-F to find the “unsubscribe” link at the end of messages – often rendered in near invisible type. At the beginning, I’d spend hours clicking through pages that asked “are you sure” and “tell us why you’re going” before receiving confirmation that I was off the list.Many of these lists were run by companies or organizations I had a relationship with – I’d given a lecture, sent money or bought something – but never agreed to be on their lists. I don’t need updates from a Chicago yoga studio I attended once while on tour in 2005.Most were sent using a tool like Mailchimp. I’ve used Mailchimp for my own projects, and signed up for several lists – but when I tried to find a central list of all the Mailchimp emails I’d been added to, they refused to provide it. It reflects badly on them, making it look like they rely so much upon spammers that they can’t afford to reveal how their tools are used. Businesses are desperate to move their audience on to email because, unlike Facebook, it’s a platform that’s not owned Being legit isn’t a guarantee of good behaviour. Dwell UK has perfected the art of annoyance, as a Twitter search for them demonstrates. A year ago they promised they’d remove me, yet I’m still receiving mail from them. Their email should read: “Welcome to the Dwell UK mailing list: to unsubscribe, just die.”There is unintentional comedy in the email they send you afterwards that asks if you unsubscribed “in error”. When the email template renders the UNSUBSCRIBE link in three-point, grey-on-white type and requires three clicks to confirm, there is no question of “in error”.But the best news is: it worked. I am down to 10% of the spam I got before The Great Unsubscribing, and the hours I used to spend unsubscribing in the first few days are now down to a minute or two per day. I’ve received hurt emails from people who put me on lists after I reviewed their books or mentioned their projects, but explained that while I’d welcome a personal email from them, or could subscribe to their Twitter or RSS, I don’t use mailing lists to get that sort of information. All complex ecosystems have parasites: when email evolved from in-business messaging into something that anything could use to talk to anyone, the ensuing complexity made spam inevitable. Businesses and publishers are desperate to move their audience on to email because, unlike Facebook, it’s a platform that’s not owned. Facebook squeezes publishers hard for access to the people who’ve followed them, charging to reach your own followers, down-ranking links to anywhere but Facebook.The publishers have a devil’s bargain with Facebook, trading material for traffic Facebook can turn on and off. Once Facebook becomes integrated in publishers’ businesses, Facebook turns off the tap and sends a bill – on a recent earnings call, Facebook’s management team frankly discussed this with investors, describing how they could monitor which businesses were becoming dependent on Facebook, and carefully time the moment that Facebook shut off traffic to them and initiated a sales call to find out how much the sucker was willing to spend to stay in touch with all the people who’d “liked” them on Facebook.Facebook’s existence is proof of why we need federated, non-proprietary services like email, where no one can interpose a tollbooth on a route that businesses and their customers traverse voluntarily to reach one another. As bad as it is to have a few dominant webmail companies controlling so much of the internet’s email, the online world can’t afford benevolent dictators, much less the kinds of moustache-twiddling villains running the Facebook traffic machine.I sympathise with independence from Facebook. But as a tactic, subscribing everyone who has ever expressed even a passing interest in your business to a mailing list without asking them is a terrible idea. At best, they will lose you in the flood. At worst, your name will come to represent part of that bloated, infuriating and unmanageable inbox.