Nearly every atrocity brings an image that defines the horror. So it is with the bombings in Brussels. Beneath the headline “What we feared has happened” the Guardian published a photograph of a young woman, stunned and disorientated, her face bloodied, her feet bare, her top blown open to reveal her black bra and bare stomach. Was it an appropriate image? Did it condense the horror, shock and suffering? This question has echoed though modern photojournalism: how to balance the dramatic against the vicarious; how to portray the horror in a single image without demeaning the victims of that horror. War photographers face the same question. Think of Don McCullin’s portrait of a shell-shocked marine in Vietnam or Nick Ut’s heartbreaking shot of a young Vietnamese girl, naked and crying, fleeing a napalm attack that has burned her skin and left two of her cousins dead. Each photograph in its own way defined the horror of war. Each photograph intruded on the trauma of the victim and turned that trauma into a global image that took on a life of its own.For Kim Phuc, the Vietnamese girl, the photograph helped transform her life: she became an ambassador for peace, going on to create the Kim Phuc Foundation, which provides medical and psychological help to child victims of war. McCullin’s soldier remains an anonymous but haunting symbol. It’s an image that haunts its creator too, who once told me: “Sometimes it felt like I was carrying pieces of human flesh back home with me, not negatives. It’s as if you are carrying the suffering of the people you have photographed.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kim Phuc, centre, runs with her brothers and cousins, followed by South Vietnamese forces, down Route 1 near Trang Bang after a South Vietnamese plane accidentally napalmed its own troops and civilians. Photograph: Nick Ut/APWith her elegant clothes and dazed face coated in dust, 29-year-old bank worker Marcy Borders seemed to have stumbled from the wreckage of the World Trade Center like a ghost. Borders too became a public symbol of – and spokesperson for – the victims of 9/11 until her death last year. Yet her face in that defining image, also expresses a degree of disbelief that, in that moment, anyone could choose to photograph her rather than rush to help her. Such is the uneasy space that photojournalists inhabit in pursuit of such dramatic photographs.In the age of the smartphone, we have all stumbled into that moral hinterland to some degree or another. The death of Neda Agha-Soltan, shot by an Iranian militiaman as she stepped out of her car in Tehran in June 2009, became the most instantly and widely witnessed death in history as phone camera footage was disseminated across the world in minutes. What price her human dignity or the suffering of her relatives at such indiscriminate exposure of her final seconds? On the internet, dreadful images of executions, beheadings and crucifixions carried out by Islamic Sate jihadis are there for those willing to seek them out. The horror is out there – but need we look at it in order to understand it?Susan Sontag thought not and argued forcefully against looking at extreme horror in her book, Regarding the Pain of Others. “There is shame as well as shock in looking at the close-up of a real horror. Perhaps the only people with the right to look at images of suffering of this extreme order are those who could do something to alleviate it … or those who could learn from it. The rest of us are voyeurs, whether or not we mean to be.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Marcy Borders on 9/11. Photograph: Stan Honda/AFPAre we voyeurs then when we look at – even admire – such iconic images? This question resounds more loudly when it comes to images of children. Perhaps the most unforgettable image of the last year is also the most unbearably poignant: the body of a dead child, three-year-old Alan Kurdi, washed up on a beach on the edge of Europe. The Commonwealth’s chief rabbi, Ephraim Mirvis, said of it: “For far too long, we have related to these suffering individuals as if they are people who are living on Mars. Thanks to that image, that desperately sad and tragic image, it’s moved our hearts … It’s an image of that boy that has brought us to our senses and we must respond adequately.” What, though, of the distraught and confused young woman in the photograph of the aftermath of the Brussels airport attacks? Unnamed in the original image on the front page of this newspaper, she had no say in either the taking of her photograph or its subsequent use. We now know that she is Nidhi Chaphekar, a flight attendant for Jet Airways, an Indian company, but does that really afford her any retrospective dignity? As I ask this question I realise it is irrelevant. In these turbulent, anxious, image-overloaded times, the need to see the horror almost always overrides the dignity of the victims. Rather than looking away, we should somehow learn that the real power of such an image resides in whether it provokes us to action of some kind, or lulls us into yet more passive looking. 