‘There is,” says Ben Bailey Smith, “something intrinsically funny about a ballsy rapper going on stage and admitting that it’s all going badly for him. It’s the incongruity of it, the anti-boast.” Smith, best known as Doc Brown, should know. “I’ve built a whole career off the back of it,” he says.We’re sitting in his converted garden shed, which is spilling over with bits of his life. It’s where he works, a few feet away from the flat he bought in London on a Hackney estate 12 years ago. A computer, toys, film posters, a vape stick and a record player poke out behind him as we chat. “The gang thing here now is as bad as it was in the 90s,” he says. “It’s so foreign to the people going to the organic cafes, doing yoga and getting their sourdough, they just don’t think it’s happening. Mate, there is an underbelly here that is terrifying.”Doc Brown: 'I'm an accidental comedian. That's what makes me dangerous' Smith, 39, is a lifelong Londoner. He’s been rapping since he was 15, working with “quality people” – Mark Ronson, Example, Charlie Sloth – throughout the early noughties. But Doc Brown’s music career became emblematic of the ever-nascent British hip-hop scene of the period: talked about an awful lot, but with scrappy tangible success. So he kept his job as a youth worker, ran a charity for refugee kids, got married, had two daughters and sold his CDs at open-mic nights. Then the comedy thing happened.Ten years ago, he worked on Lenny Henry’s Radio 4 series, Rudy’s Rare Records. This led to live comedy gigs – and Doc Brown the standup was a success. He pays credit to his sister Zadie (yes, Smith), who was a comedy buff and got him up to speed “because the only standups I really knew about back then were Eddie Murphy or Peter Kay”. But being funny about failing as a rapper has done him an awful lot of good. At the moment, he’s on tour with Ricky Gervais as the opening act on the sell-out show Humanity; last year he co-starred in the David Brent movie.So why is he releasing Stemma, his first new album in a decade? Why go back to making music at all? “I really want people to recognise that I’m one of the best rappers in the UK.” Smith says this slowly, smiling. “I’ve been saying that since the early 2000s and no one’s believed me. You might say, ‘You’re disillusioned, you’re nothing like the best.’ But I think what I do in the next couple of months will show people I can be part of that conversation.’”    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Doc Brown announces his forthcoming album, StemmaSmith is obviously talented and his songs deserve radio play, but it’s a harsh business. Given that UK hip-hop has moved on so much and that grime finally, truly, became mainstream while he was away, is he not worried? “No! Just because I’m old doesn’t mean I’m not good any more. Why would I not get better? I’m just better.” He laughs and tells me about playing the tracks to a friend who said: “What you need to do is replace all the music with the stuff that kids are listening to now, and get one of these teenage grime guys on the beat to open you up to that audience.” Smith is having none of it. “I don’t have anything to say to that audience. This is grownup music. I can’t come back and make teenage grime. I can’t think of anything more embarrassing than seeing me, thirtysomething father of two, pretending like …”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ben Bailey Smith with Sav Akguz and their children’s book I Am Bear in 2016. Photograph: Susannah TresilianThere’s a wince. “Look, I’m going to make the songs that mean something to me right now, what I’m going through right now. I think it would be hard for me to make a rap album that meant anything to myself if I spent the last 10 years James Cordening it up. Do you know what I’m saying?”Plus, there seems to have been genuine trauma in the interim, stuff he couldn’t articulate in comedy. “Everyone has a bad year. I’ve talked to a therapist about it. I don’t think I want to rehash any of that, but what I will say is that great art can come out of tragedy or personal struggle.” Smith talks about drug and alcohol abuse, dealing with depression, relationship changes – stuff he and his friends, the same tight group he’s had since school, talk about and deal with.“I guess the life around the artist is more interesting than the art.” Depends on the artist, I say. “True. I know a lot of really, really boring bastards who make a lot of really incredible art.” For what it’s worth, Smith isn’t boring – he’s the fanciable boy next door: easy company, decent jokes, telly advert handsome. He reckons he doesn’t want fame or celebrity – “because the higher up the echelons you go, the shittier the parties” – but to be confident and free in doing things his way.“I saw Moonlight last night and thought, ‘Everything I’ve made is not good enough.’ Those guys were like, ‘Nah, we’re not doing that’ to everyone who wanted to invest. They said, ‘We’ll make it with less money then, we’re not going to change it. That’s rubbish.’ And they made me think, ‘Stop compromising! Do your thing – and if people don’t like this album, fair enough.’”• Doc Brown’s new single, Corruptible, is out on Friday on Bust a Gut Recordings.