The only thing separating Mark Talbot from hundreds of better-known daytime DJs up and down the land, all burbling about the weather before cutting to ELO or the Carpenters, is that they have access to a transmitter and therefore their musings are legitimised by the existence of an audience. What Mark did with his programme Second Side Up was committed solely to cassette and then circulated just to his family and a few friends.Talbot did this for 40 years, simply out of love for the medium. His historic recordings provide the basis for a riveting Between the Ears: Second Side Up – A Life Captured in Radio (Saturday, 9.30pm, Radio 3), in which the cheeriness of his “on air” persona is offset by the occasional reverses in his personal life. Did all this work for love ever lead to the prospect of paid work on the radio? Just the once. Listen for details.I suspect we’re all less interested in the whodunnit aspects of The Hatton Garden Heist (Saturday, 2.30pm, Radio 4) than we are in the idea of a major crime being carried out by a bunch of elderly robbers with dodgy hips and a tendency to nod off when they should be keeping watch. This dramatisation begins with one of the principals taking the bus to the scene of the crime, using a stolen Freedom Pass that he’d bought off a bloke in a pub – which proves how old habits die hard. I don’t know whether to entirely believe the dialogue, though. Has any villain told another villain to “shut your cakehole” since the days when most London robberies were carried out by Sid James?Sue Limb’s Bloomsbury Set pastiche Gloomsbury (Friday, 11.30am, Radio 4) returns with Miriam Margolyes as Vera Sackcloth-Vest confessing to her husband Henry Mickleton – played by Jonathan Coy – that she no longer considers snapdragons vulgar. This exchange gives you some idea of the mannered dramas in store.The podcast 99% Invisible is about design and architecture. These don’t seem like obvious subjects to be explored in sound. The fact that 99% Invisible manages to do them so well is testament to the inventiveness that characterises the best podcasting. Recent episodes have concerned the LAPD’s search for a non-lethal alternative to the gun, a look at the department of the White House that reads the thousands of letters sent to the President of the United States and the part played by REM’s album Out of Time in the fate of the “longbox” packaging formerly used for CDs in America.If you’re looking for a place to start, seek out episode 127, The Sound of Sports. This one is about how the noises that accompany television coverage of sport – horses’ hooves, leather on willow, the golf club scything through the air – all need help from clever technicians and imaginative producers in order to sound the way we have come to expect sport to sound.