Not long before the USSR collapsed, I stood with my mother in Sheremetyevo airport, Moscow, saying goodbye to my brother, who was leaving for the US. It was still the age of the iron curtain, still the time when saying goodbye could have meant never seeing one another again. We watched him walk through customs. Suddenly, my mother took off through the crowd, grabbing my brother just before he disappeared. I still see her – a heavy, middle-aged woman surprising the guards as she swept past them, clutching at my brother, already standing on the other side. As the guards tore her away, I was shocked, disgusted almost, to see my mother kiss my brother on the mouth.Today, I wear the ring, an old family heirloom, that my mother belatedly remembered to smuggle, mouth to mouth, across the border.In 1918, the year my mother’s mother was born, her family crossed the border nearly half a dozen times, without ever leaving their Odessa apartment. Month after month, the region was invaded by various foreign regiments: Greeks, French, Poles, Germans, Romanians, Brits, Austro-Hungarians. Of course, the border had been a struggle for them and the city of Odessa was so divided between different governments – French, Greek, Ukrainian, Romanian – that the family needed a travel permit just to see their cousins in the next street. Yes, crossing the border had always been a struggle – but that year, 1918, the border crossed through them. What does that experience mean?National borders cross a line of decency: we should all be citizens of the world When I tell stories of my Soviet childhood to US audiences, people are always sympathetic. Americans are immensely sympathetic to suffering in exotic lands. But when I start speaking about the injustice of the border right here in San Diego, where I have lived and taught now for a decade, the room grows quiet.In January, President Trump signed an executive order to begin the construction of a wall that will divide my students from their parents, grandparents, cousins, grade-school friends. Of course, there is already a wall. Seven hundred miles of it. In Tijuana, 24 miles from my own living room, there is not just one fence, but two. Both go all the way to the Pacific Ocean. Into the water. And between those two fences, the desert: an invisible wall.Does that stop people from crossing? No. They simply cross under more difficult conditions. It is estimated that between 1998 and 2004, 1,954 unidentified migrants died in the desert or the mountains while attempting to cross. Some of their unnamed bodies are in the back of Terrace Park cemetery in Holtville, California, in a dirt lot. Jane Doe. John Doe. John Doe. Jane Doe. Hundreds of unidentified graves. In 2009, the US government stopped burying the bodies of those who died crossing the desert here. Now, the bodies are cremated, their ashes scattered at sea. “My family always lived here,” one of my students, who is undocumented, tells me. “We lived here before the first 1950s fence. We lived here before the second fence. We lived here before Trump’s newly announced wall. Trump is building the wall across the land where my family lives. It is as if he is dividing one room from another room of my house.” To be undocumented in the country where you have lived most of your life – that is perhaps to feel that the border is always crossing through you. Corine Goria, a San Diego-area immigration lawyer and writer, emailed me about a conversation she had with her babysitter’s mother, who was worried about being deported. Goria told her: “Don’t worry. If you are picked up, you have a strong case. You’ve been here more than 10 years, you have four US-citizen children, you have never committed any crime, you’ve never even had a parking ticket. And we’ve known you for years. You are part of our family.”The woman thanked her, through tears. “And then I’d hoped she would have responded, ‘Yes, you are like family to us, too’ – to absolve me of my complacency with this wretched situation that has been going on for decades, for generations; to absolve me for living without fear in a two-bedroom home with two children, while she lived with it, in a two-bedroom home with four,” Goria wrote. “I wanted to be absolved. But she merely said, ‘Thank you. Not all bosses are like you.’”Another friend of mine, the poet and novelist Katherine Towler told me about a recent trip to the border. “At a checkpoint on the highway in Texas, we saw a busload of Latinos, mostly women and children, pulled over. They were standing in the 100-degree heat surrounded by border guards with German shepherds. We were waved through the checkpoint. It made me understand the phrase white privilege viscerally.” That is white privilege: we pass through the border, the border doesn’t pass through us.Citizens of Everywhere is a project by the Centre for New and International Writing at the University of Liverpool. @CitizensofWhere #CitizensofEverywhereIlya Kaminsky is donating his fee for this article to Voices for Children.