In Tim Murphy’s recent novel Christodora, Hector Villanueva, an Aids activist, looks back on his life’s work. Addicted to crystal meth and alone after the death of his partner, Hector quietly resents others with Aids who get to live “in the bright-eyed new landscape of the chronic manageable illness, supposedly no more menacing or stigmatised or weird than high blood pressure or diabetes”. It was his life’s work to get recognition for the illness and its sufferers – and now they have it, it rings hollow.Christodora by Tim Murphy review – solidarity in the shadow of Aids Murphy’s novel is a rare beast in that it is a contemporary look at Aids – Hector is looking back from 2021 – and also because it is about Aids at all. While the few memoirs, novels, poetry and plays we do have provide bitter and beautiful insight, accounts of Aids, during and after its initial spread, are comparatively hard to find (present-day accounts are even rarer still). Alan Hollinghurst’s The Line of Beauty, Anne Enright’s The Green Road and Michael Cunningham’s The Hours beautifully explore the prejudices that existed around the disease in the 80s, 90s and early noughties respectively. Colm Tóibín’s The Blackwater Lightship brings a family together to nurse Declan, a dying relative. Martin Sixsmith’s The Lost Child of Philomena Lee, ostensibly about an Irish woman’s search for her adopted son, spends much of its time in Washington and attacks Reagan’s Republicans for their inaction during the crisis. There are also extraordinary plays, particularly from the height of the crisis in the 80s and 90s – such as Larry Kramer’s The Normal Heart and Tony Kushner’s Angels in America. As Kramer put it, this sort of visibility, “using words as fighting tools”, mobilised a generation. Aids even appeared in comics: in 1991, Marvel’s Hulk featured an HIV-positive character, as did DC’s Green Arrow a decade later.In an already slender canon, there are even fewer books by writers of colour, from women affected by Aids or young people born with the virus. Sarah Schulman is an exception: her Rat Bohemia explored the strained connections between gay men and lesbians in mid-90s New York. Susan Sontag analysed attitudes to disease in Aids and Its Metaphors in the 80s. Mary Gaitskill’s Veronica focused on the title character’s relationships with an HIV-positive man and the female narrator, who refuses to abandon Veronica when she tests positive. In Push, American author Sapphire tells the story of an abused black teenage girl who finds solace in the support groups she attends. All powerful, important examples of writing about Aids – but given the sheer numbers of people whose lives were ravaged by the virus, there should be more.Why are there so few? We’ll never know how many books on the subject were lost when authors were claimed by the virus; how many died with the intention to write about their experience and never managed to. Christopher Coe died a year after the publication of his novel Such Times, while Paul Monette’s almost unbearably raw poetry collection Love Alone, dedicated to his dead partner, was half-written when Monette was told he would also die of the virus.And for so many who did survive, they are now in their 50s and 60s, having spent their teens and 20s fighting for social change and planning their friends’ funerals. Following the introduction of antiretrovirals in 1996, there is now a generation with no lived experience of its terrors. Aids survivor syndrome is now a recognised condition, for those who have had little time to process what they witnessed. But perhaps there is also something akin to Aids impostor syndrome: do today’s young writers, who live in a time when it is regarded more as a chronic condition than a death sentence, feel unqualified to approach the subject? Is it akin to the recent debates around cultural appropriation in writing, most recently stoked by Lionel Shriver: are writers uncomfortable with their right – or perceived lack thereof – to fictionalise experiences not their own?As a disease so inextricably linked to homophobia, gender and race, stories about Aids need to be published. Our attitudes to illness, death and notions of morality are reflected in what we as a society elect to write about, and books improve not only our understanding, but the understanding of generations after us. There must be a greater range of voices and a wealth of unpublished works to shape how future generations will see Aids. This is ongoing history, after all. “Don’t talk about it like it’s the past tense,” says Hector in Christodora. “It’s not over.” 