It was March 2001. Beyoncé Knowles, not yet hyphenated, was relaxing before a show in a sports arena in Peoria, Illinois. Standing around with her two bandmates, the 19-year-old talked to a reporter about being in Destiny’s Child. No security guards or publicists were present. Ms Knowles was still managed by her father, Matthew. “I’ve been listening to a lot of Miles, a lot of Fela,” Beyoncé said. She and her friends broke into song and discussed old-school hip-hop before walking, unaccompanied, upstairs to play before a crowd of loud but well-behaved teenagers and their parents.In June 2016, leading American cultural critics Heben Nigatu and Tracy Clayton opened their weekly newsletter with a mention of seeing “King Beyoncé in concert”. Now with a daughter named Blue Ivy and a husband who dabbles in athlete management and vodka sales, Knowles-Carter is in the middle of her Formation World Tour. You have until 2 October to sell your house and buy a ticket.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ready to party: a pre-show selfie of the gang. Photograph: Jerónimo ÁlvarezBeing a fan of Beyoncé in 2001 was easy, relatively. Destiny’s Child lived within the orbit of pop. Soon it wouldn’t matter what you listened to, but we weren’t yet at 100% genre dissolution. There were other R&B groups you could pledge allegiance to, and songs like “Independent Women, Part 1” and “Survivor” were part of the story, not the whole story. The political was not yet fully personal for every pop star.We hadn’t been sat in each other’s laps by social media and musicians weren’t being scuttled out of sight after posting nasty tweets. 2001 was part of the pre-mobile 20th century. When Beyoncé went solo in 2002, the US did not yet have a black president. Michelle Obama had not yet shown us how to Dougie. Jay-Z and Beyoncé were about to become a thing, and “Crazy in Love” was about to be the best song ever scrawled on a high-school locker.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Crazy in love: two fan’s in matching T-shirts before the Miami show. Photograph: Jerónimo ÁlvarezNow Beyoncé is king, queen and more. Cultural politics are the bread and butter of social media, and preferences have become allegiances. Beyoncé has reduced her interview access from a pop star’s tabloid ubiquity to a presidential drip. We hear from her only when she has a new initiative, usually a commodity, to discuss. This puts a heavier burden on fans, who have to create a community and discuss what Beyoncé has started but will not nurture. Using Rihanna’s own term, Rihanna’s fans are her navy, to be deployed when she needs them. By contrast, Beyoncé fans constitute a living nation that keeps her teachings alive when she is not present.The Formation tour is an opportunity for fans to meet and assert which part of Beyoncé’s platform they support: the energy, the independence, the newly unbiddable voice throwing off fathers and spouses, the dancer, the force of nature, the fountain of joy. Or all of it.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   She’s a phenomenon: Beyoncé boys. Photograph: Jerónimo ÁlvarezWhen the Lemonade album dropped a few months ago, it seemed like a public divorce filing. If Beyoncé had written a novel about a struggling marriage, people might have thought it was just a creative elaboration of events. Not so in pop, especially for Beyoncé. She speaks so infrequently that fans have to take her songs as confessions – what other information do they have to guide them? Even her “revealing” 2013 documentary Life is But a Dream told us little we didn’t know beyond news of her miscarriage and the fact that she gets tired.Beyoncé is, as cultural markers go, still one of the friendly ones, unmarked by any truly damaging missteps, unwilling to snark and easy to love. Lemonade is our first major narrative break, together, as fans. She has been angry. She may still be angry. It brings her, reborn, to her fans. She failed and triumphed and regrouped before anyone could know how or why she was suffering.Being a Beyoncé fan is a little like rooting for Lionel Messi: it is so rare that she is not entertaining or clever that there is a certain degree of relaxation that comes with worship. And her work contains small nods that can feel like benedictions, or at the very least declarations of solidarity.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Getting ready: the stage is set in Tampa. Photograph: Jerónimo ÁlvarezWhen she debuted the Sasha Fierce character eight years ago, it was not accompanied by music that lived up to the name. “Fierce” is a term specific to black and Latino American ballroom culture; most heard it first in the 1991 documentary, Paris is Burning. Beyoncé’s use of the word was a subtle way of saying: “I see and acknowledge you” to an entire community.Lemonade is a 2016 equivalent to the work of Miles Davis or Fela Kuti in terms of determination and political heft. (It shows us the fierceness she hadn’t mustered in 2008.) Who, a year ago, would have predicted any of the things that Lemonade delivered? “Please put Trayvon Martin’s mother in the video, duet with Jack White and have him call you ‘God herself’, make a London-based poet born in Kenya one of your main collaborators.”The Formation tour is the moment when a Pepsi spokesperson turns back into a cultural vortex, where all dragons are welcome, and a woman from Houston can be a woman from everywhere, for everyone.For more information on Beyoncé’s tour, go to Formation World Tour