The first thing Cris Jones says to me after we exchange greetings outside a Sydney cafe is, “Sorry I’m late.” A perfectly normal comment to make were it not for the fact it is a measly one minute past the hour we agreed to meet – surely within anybody’s acceptable margin of error.What constitutes being late? When should one contemplate apologising? Our conversation ventures into the concept of time so quickly I don’t even have the, well, time to realise how apt that is, given the subject matter of the UK-born, Sydney-raised writer/director’s first feature film, The Death and Life of Otto Bloom.That death/life reversal in the title is no mistake. In fact, it reflects the core premise of Jones’s unquestionably ambitious drama, which premieres on Thursday evening as the opening night film of this year’s Melbourne international film festival.Melbourne international film festival 2016: 10 things to see The story explores a man who experiences life in reverse. Not in the sense that he literally moves backwards (“I don’t think that idea would have sustained itself,” says Jones, laughing), but in a fantastical rearrangement of a human beings’ memories. The eponymous character, played in straight-faced style by Xavier Samuel, remembers everything before it happens then forgets about events after they transpire. This mind-bending premise is linked to the idea that time need not be considered a linear progression. Something tells me Jones is already sick of hearing the words “Benjamin Button”.“Yes!” the film-maker thunders back, then pauses and reflects. “Actually,” he says, speaking several octaves lower, “I find it quite useful as a point of differentiation, as opposed to a point of reference.”Jones explains that a famous quote from one of his favourite philosophers, the Danish intellect Søren Kierkegaard, was used in that film’s marketing materials: “Life can only be understood backwards but it must be lived forwards.”“I didn’t really feel that Benjamin Button lived up to having a quote like that,” Jones says. “I didn’t mind the film but it didn’t seem to say anything about time to me. I do think about time a lot. It feels like the ocean we swim in, yet we can’t see the ocean for the water.”Jones started banging away at the screenplay in September 2014 after his previous project, a feature film called Midnight in Byzantium, fell through at the eleventh hour. Jones and his producers had lined up everything they needed (or so they thought), including a local distributor, an international sales agent and high-profile actors: Xavier Samuel and Sam Neill.But all of a sudden they couldn’t get funding over the line. Crushed, the film-maker moved back into his family home in Sydney and hunkered down. He spent long stints in the garage (as long as 10 or even 14 hours at a time), writing almost every day. Instead of using a computer Jones used his (somewhat retrograde) device of choice: an old manual typewriter.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Matilda Brown as a young Ada with director Cris Jones on the set of The Death and Life of Otto Bloom. Photograph: Suzy Wood“Otherwise I find I just keep going back and changing things as I go and I don’t move forward as quickly as I’d like to,” Jones says. “It’s much easier to rewrite when you haven’t read what you’ve written for a month or something. When I’m rewriting, that’s when I transfer it to a computer. “I was a bit like a machine myself at that time because I wanted to get something up very quickly, as quickly as possible. I did have some days off and I’d usually go for long walks and think about things. It was an intense period for me.”Jones styles Otto Bloom in the manner of a fake documentary, replete with re-enactments, faux archival footage and a plethora of talking heads. A core tangent explores the romance between Otto and the love of his reverse-life, Ada (played by Rachel Ward and Matilda Brown, who are mother and daughter in real life).In the garage, to get his head around the film’s unorthodox structure, Jones constructed two timelines. One was from the perspective of Ada, which had a straight chronology, and the other from Otto, which examined their relationship unfolding in reverse. “When we meet him [Otto], he is solemn and depressed because for him, he’s seeing this person he’s shared his life with for the last time,” Jones says. “It’s one of those things which, on the first viewing, you wouldn’t get. Then I think slowly over the course of the film, in scenes when we see things from his perspective – in reverse – it informs some of those mysteries.“The hopeful thing about the film is the idea nothing is ever lost. No one is ever lost. Even though we will never experience them again, those moments are still unfolding somewhere in time. It’s a romantic concept.” • The Death and Life of Otto Bloom opens the Melbourne international film festival on 28 July at Arts Centre Melbourne. The festival runs until 14 August 2016