When I lived in the French countryside, I started a vegetable garden. The farmer next door came round with his huge tractor and ploughed up a plot on the sloping field in front our house. I lugged the soil around to take what had inevitably ended up at the bottom to the top, stopping only on doctor’s orders (I was pregnant at the time). As a novice gardener, I did not know much of what to do. But that freshly ploughed soil did. The vegetables shot up, the roots shot down.With my newborn daughter on one arm, pulling up weeds on the other, I tended the land and loved it.  And was I happy when, during the whole summer, I did not have to buy one single vegetable. I also enjoyed being self-sufficient, of having to rely on no one but myself, of benefiting from the fruits of my labours. Even though my digestive system got heartily sick of courgettes, it was deeply appealing, it felt good. I even weaned my daughter on homegrown carrots.There was also a feeling of worthiness about it, a sense it was somehow heroic. As a self-employed food policy analyst at the time, I was doing some work for the World Health Organisation on the food price crisis of 2007. The evidence showed that rural women with access to land had greater resilience to rapidly rising food prices. It meant that whatever was happening out there, they could grow their own food and feed it to their children. Growing your own food was not just fun for me, it protected against hunger for vulnerable people.But I also knew from my work that there was a big debate about whether poor households in poor countries could be, or should be, self-sufficient. Not only is it hard to work the land with a hoe, but families who were forced by poverty to subsist entirely from what they grew were often more vulnerable to hunger. At the national level, there is not one country that has not grappled with this question. To be, or not to be, self-sufficient is one of the core questions of food policy. In the UK, the issue came to a head in the First World War. We were importing two-thirds of our food, including fourth-fifths of our wheat, and the shipping channels were under threat. Little wonder the government aimed to increase national production and later, during the Second World War, urged citizens to “dig for victory”.It was also the way to keep Europe secure. The EEC established the Common Agricultural Policy in the late 1950s/early 1960s to increase the degree of self-sufficiency by supporting farmers to produce enough food. Given Brexit, it is a question we are now having to ask ourselves again: where do we want our food to come from? Here? Or there? If not, then from where? Is it time to dig again for Britain? Even though my digestive system got heartily sick of courgettes, it was deeply appealing, it felt good In the developing world, policies to enhance self-sufficiency in staple foods such as rice are fiercely debated. Self-sufficiency is good, some say, because it provides protection against variable world food prices and interruption in supplies. But others say it is best to produce some and buy the rest in through trade. The trade argument won the way in 1994, when food and agriculture were brought into the big global trade deals. The big idea was that removing trade barriers would stabilise food supplies and prices, enhance supply diversity, reduce costs and lower the price of food, all while increasing incomes.While economists gloated, free trade became the lightning rod for critics. Peasants’ groups protested that cheap imports were taking away their livelihoods. “Food sovereignty” became the rallying cry.Back to my garden. I have to confess, in the second season, things were somewhat different. And certain memories returned last week on reading gardener Monty Don’s provocative comments: “Follow the path of self-sufficiency and that way madness lies...” In my rush to grow food, I had not grown pest protection. That year, the doryphores came (the Colorado potato beetle no longer found in the UK). No potatoes that year. The broad beans got the black fly, too, and no amount of nettle juice, a remedy advised by one of the organic farmers at my local market, made any difference at all.The next year, the voles came. They snipped the stems of everything except the chard. The pests come in cycles, my neighbours said, their heads nodding sagely, leaving me with the feeling that they knew how to fix it, but I didn’t. Then there were the gluts. I could handle courgettes – I could make them into soup and freeze them – but rainbow chard? I began to wish desperately, and secretly, that something would come and eat it all up so I didn’t have to.I felt far from heroic. It seemed to me that the either/or approach to growing or buying food is, well, stupid. There was me, feeling smug about producing everything myself. It felt good until it didn’t work. Some production at home is good. But not all. Taking away people’s access to land is not a good idea, but neither is thinking that they should grow all their own food. We have this meta-narrative that either local food is good and global food is bad or local food is bad and global food is good. It’s tosh. We need policy to encourage a diversity of approaches. Diversity builds resilience. A better food supply will be built by lots of small strategies in an overarching framework, not by any big single mega solution.I miss my French garden deeply. At home in Cambridge, I look out at a paltry square of grass, unable to cultivate it because, being a new house in a new development, the soil is poor and pitifully shallow. With no small shops round the corner, I’m overly reliant on supermarkets. I am lucky to be part of a Community Supported Agriculture scheme that increases the diversity of food for my family. But I wish I could produce something. I wish there was a diversity of stuff around in a thriving community economy that benefited from globalism as well as localism, where workers got proper pay and people helped each other out.So yes, I am still idealistic, but the reality is that one needs strong arms as well as a supportive government to be really self-sufficient. And that having enough of the right kind of food does not mean building walls around yourself, but leveraging the local while being open to the global.Professor Corinna Hawkes is director of the Centre for Food Policy, City University London