When David Wolfe was 16 he found a document in the loft at his family home that contained two extraordinary revelations. One was that he had a sister, born before him, who had been adopted. The second was that his father – whom he knew had died when he was not quite a year old – had been executed for murder.All David had known was that his father had died fighting for African freedom. His mother, Ann, had mentioned that one day in passing when he was about 12, after she overheard him talking to one of his friends about his father. But she didn’t elaborate and David didn’t pursue it: Ann’s attitude had always been to look forward, never back; to seize the day, and the opportunities it contained. Like all children, David instinctively knew that this was his family’s way of dealing with things; he made it his way, too.But now, at 16, the moment had come to find out the facts. On 24 July 1964, David’s father, John Harris, a member of the African Resistance Movement – an anti-apartheid organisation that had until then confined itself mainly to blowing up electricity pylons – walked into the whites-only section of Johannesburg railway station and left a suitcase there that contained a bomb. It exploded just 13 minutes later, injuring several people seriously, in particular Glynnis Burleigh, 12, and her grandmother, Ethel Rhys, 77. Mrs Rhys died three weeks later from her injuries. Glynnis, who had 70% and third degree burns, was left with life-changing injuries.Harris – who appeared to have acted alone, since most of his fellow ARM members had either left the country or been imprisoned – was found guilty of murder and sentenced to death. On 1 April 1965, he was hanged – the only white person to be executed in South Africa for a crime against apartheid.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   John Harris with David as a baby.Today, David is 52, a lawyer in London, and the father of teenage twin girls. As they have grown older they have become more interested in the unusual events surrounding their grandfather’s death. But what has really forced David to think about his father’s story is a Channel 4 documentary to be screened this month, in which he revisits Johannesburg, which he left as a small child, and talks to his mother (who has died since the programme was made) and others who were there at the time – friends of John who remember what he was like and what happened. And, most crucially, to Glynnis, the girl who was so badly injured.But the film is not – David is adamant – his personal journey or his assessment of what happened. The fact that he agreed to collaborate with the film-maker Simon Finch, though, has clearly made it what it is; as well as visiting the railway station in Johannesburg, and the wall in Freedom Park in Pretoria, where his father’s name is inscribed with those of hundreds of others who sacrificed their lives to end apartheid, he also combed through his family’s cine archive.The home movies that came to light allows the film to flesh out the larger-than-life, passionate man who was John Harris. And that must have been difficult for David, who seems like someone who favours a rational rather than an emotional approach to life. One of the most moving moments in the film is when he reads out the messages his father wrote to him and his mother from the death cell. However rational you are, and however much you try to transcend the baggage of your history, there are times when it wouldn’t be human not to be touched; especially when it’s your own story, and especially when your own story is so moving.The question at the heart of the documentary is this: what should David feel about John’s crime? Are the sins of a father visited on his son? Does David feel – and should he feel – guilt for his father’s actions?When we meet near his office, David weighs up these questions with even-handed detachment. On the issue of guilt, he is clear: he feels none. “None of us is responsible for our parents’ actions. And in the same way, I can’t take credit for anything my father did. Before the bombing, he was instrumental in organising the sports boycott that ultimately helped bring down apartheid. I take no more credit for that than I take any blame for his catastrophic mistake in thinking the railway station would be cleared.”It all rests, in fact, on this. And while David may not feel guilt, he does feel it is important to defend his father’s case. After leaving the bomb, John telephoned two newspapers and the railway police. “There’s no doubt he gave those warnings and there’s no doubt he expected them to be heeded,” says David.So why wasn’t the station cleared?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Glynnis Burleigh with her grandmother, Ethel Rhys, on the beach, in the days before John Harris planted the bomb in 1965.“There’s some evidence they took a calculated decision to do nothing,” he says. Even if they did, though, 13 minutes seems a very brief time in which to avert a tragedy.The bombing, and even Mrs Rhys’s death, played into the hands of the South African authorities, as did Harris’s trial and execution; they wanted an anti-apartheid outrage in order to undermine the movement’s credibility.Down through the decades, as well as in the immediate aftermath, John Harris’s legacy has been fiercely debated by those closest to the apartheid struggle: was he a hero, was he foolish or was he a villain? He meant his actions to bring down a heinous political system but did he, in the end, hand it a gift?The central fact, says David, was that his father never disputed what he did. “The issue in the trial was the distinction between murder and manslaughter. But there was no jury: he was tried by a single judge sitting alone, a white establishment judge who was extremely unsympathetic.”John Harris was 27 when he was hanged for murder. He and Ann are described in the film as inseparable, an observation borne out by a dip into a book called Truth is a Strange Fruit by David Beresford, the Guardian’s late Johannesburg correspondent, which draws on the letters Harris sent as he waited to be executed in Pretoria.Realising there was little chance that his sentence would be commuted, Harris asked Ann to have “the happiest, fullest life you can manage, dearest, sweetest heart. My love for you means that I profoundly want you to have as much happiness as possible for your entire life. And there is the separate (but dependent) very important point – that David must have happy surroundings.”In that same letter, Harris said Ann should “not exclude the possibility of remarriage, both for your happiness and for David’s”. And this is what happened: life in South Africa was very difficult for Ann after her husband’s execution, and she returned to Britain where she met and married an environmentalist, Martin Wolfe, with whom she went on to have another son.Against the odds, David says his childhood was extremely happy. “Lots of people have complicated lives and I don’t think mine has been any more complicated than anyone else’s,” he says. “And lots of people have parents who die when they are children. What matters is not denying the past, but enjoying our loved ones, our children, our friends and family.”Did he ever feel angry with his father for leaving him and his mother alone? Not really, he says: “Everyone’s life is full of Sliding Doors moments, and I don’t really do them. Of course I feel frustration and sadness, but I wouldn’t call it anger.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Glynnis Burleigh today.After Harris’s execution, his widow and baby went to live with friends – the Hains, whose son Peter would later move to Britain and become a prominent Labour politician and cabinet minister. Aged 15, Peter Hain read from the Book of Ecclesiastes at John’s funeral (“There is a time to kill and a time to heal; a time to break down and a time to build up”).David’s life was changed for ever by the day his father planted the bomb at the train station in Johannesburg. But another child’s life was changed in a different way. Photographs seen in the documentary show Glynnis Burleigh in childhood, tanned and fresh-faced on the beach – John Harris’s bomb would leave her terribly scarred.When Simon Finch told David Wolfe that he had found Glynnis, David agreed to meet her. “I felt it was the right thing to do, particularly if it was going to be helpful to her and helpful in the wider understanding of the situation,” he says.Given that he doesn’t feel he inherited his father’s guilt, he didn’t feel he should apologise to her – and he didn’t. “But there is definitely a connection between us,” he says, and their on-screen meeting is a sombre moment of reckoning. “I don’t think John Harris was a hero,” says Glynnis in the film. “He might have been to others, but he wasn’t a hero in my eyes. I see any form of terrorism as cowardly.”When David says his father didn’t mean the bomb to actually hurt anyone because he assumed the railway station would be cleared, Glynnis is adamant. “How would you put eight sticks of dynamite … next to a woman and a child and not expect it to hurt them?”On one point, though, they agree. “You can’t answer for your father,” says Glynnis. “And I don’t expect you to.”What, though, of that other family secret revealed by David’s rummage in the loft when he was 16?Ann and John had met as teenagers and later had an unplanned pregnancy. Believing relatives would disapprove of them giving the baby away, they told their families that the child had died.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Wolfe today. Photograph: Martin Godwin for the GuardianAt the time David discovered his sister’s existence, she would have known nothing of his; but in the late 1980s, after her adoptive mother’s death, she found out her history and traced her birth mother. Ann was reunited with Lynn, the daughter she had given away, and today she and David are close.One thing that comes through in the documentary is the family’s resilience: David credits his mother for that. “She had such a positive attitude to life,” he says. “She had been through a lot: her mother died when she was a child, she’d had to give her baby away and then her husband was executed. But through it all, she knew she could survive. She used to call these events in her life her tragedies, but she dealt with them – she didn’t become embittered in any way.”David, meanwhile, seems to have been determined not to be defined by the actions of his father – and yet, in the end, it has shaped all he has gone on to become. He studied engineering after leaving school, but soon realised his future was in the law.“I think what my father’s story gave me was what I would call a healthy scepticism about the way government and society works, and about the need to be independent-minded,” he says. While he won’t own either the guilt or the glory for his father’s fight against apartheid, he is clear about his father’s stance. “We all like to think we would do the right thing,” says David. “But the fact is that most white South Africans were at best passive beneficiaries of apartheid.”Whatever else he was, John Harris, who went to his execution singing We Shall Overcome, was not one of those.• The Good Terrorist will be shown on Channel 4 at 8pm on 27 August This article was amended on 15 August 2016 to correct some personal details