More than 42,000 people flocked to Ireland to one of the biggest tech conferences in the world, Dublin’s Web Summit. Once described as “the best technology conference on the planet”, the gathering is a seething mass of startups pitching ideas, investors looking for the next Google or Facebook, tech thinkers talking about the latest trends, and the odd celebrity giving their visions for the future. Here is what we learned at this year’s meeting of techie minds.Tinder says it’s about long-term love, not short-lived thrillsDating app Tinder is often seen as being purely about the “hook-ups” – people meeting for casual sex. The company’s CEO, Sean Rad, claimed otherwise at the summit, saying that a survey of 300,000 Tinder users found that “over 80% of people on Tinder are there to find a long-term relationship”. The other 20% are there for “things more short-term: either friendships or … dare I say, hook-ups. Very brief friendships!”Rad also offered stats to illustrate Tinder’s growth: its users collectively go on 1.5 million dates every week, while every day they swipe through 1.8 billion potential mates, with the app making 30 million daily matches.He also made the case for Tinder being more meaningful than other social apps: “You’re not going to remember the photo you saw on Snapchat two hours ago. You are going to remember the person you met on Tinder even weeks ago.”Could virtual reality’s killer app be education?Oculus VR is the virtual-reality company bought by Facebook for $2bn, which is planning to launch its Oculus Rift headset in 2016. While games were its initial focus, founder Palmer Luckey suggested that education might be a key area for virtual reality technology.“I think there’s a lot of potential for virtual reality in the education industry … Classrooms are broken. Kids don’t learn the best by reading books,” he said. “There’s clearly value in real-world experiences: going to do things. That’s why we have field trips. The problem is that the majority of people will never be able to do the majority of those experiences.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cyberpsychologist Mary Aiken, who studies online behaviour, speaking to the conference. Photograph: Clodagh Kilcoyne/GettyCybercriminal motives? Ask them about their mother…One of the summit talks that made waves beyond Dublin came from cyberpsychologist Mary Aiken, who studies online behaviour. She suggested that criminal hackers may have motivations beyond revenge, profit or maliciousness.“My favourite explanation in academic literature is a Freudian psychoanalytic approach to hacking, which actually conceptualises hacking in Freudian terms as a cybersexual urge to penetrate,” she said. “And there are castration complex overtones in terms of being cut off from the network as well.”But Aiken also said that society needs to stop thinking about hacking as a negative, menacing thing, pointing out that, in cases where teenagers have been caught hacking companies, hitting them with the full force of the law may be the wrong approach. “As a society, do we really want to criminalise 13-, 14- and 15-year-olds? Or do we want to understand their behaviour, engage with their incredible skillsets, mentor them and try to point them in the right direction?”Drones can be used for good, not evilDJI is one of the companies making consumer drones – “flying robots with high-quality cameras attached”, in the words of executive Randy Braun. He said that while much media attention focused on nefarious uses for drones, better examples are coming: “Based on what I read in my local newspaper, we’re sort of the bad guys. We’re the ones spying on our next-door neighbours in their backyard. We’re the ones flying up the high-rise buildings and peeking in the windows, right? We’re kind of deviant too, we’re the ones dropping bags of marijuana into the prisons these days!” he said. “We really don’t read a lot of good news about small drones in the media. But it’s coming.”DJI is trying to help that by working with humanitarian organisations: Braun showed off a project involving its drones being used in Nepal to map and scan areas damaged by April’s earthquake, to help people plan for any future disasters. Elsewhere at the summit, footage shot by drones flying over active volcanoes showed the potential for aerial robotics to help us understand the natural world.Kickstarter picks social impact over Silicon Valley richesCrowdfunding service Kickstarter recently passed $2bn of pledges since its launch in 2009. And the company also recently turned its back on the prospect of being bought or going public in a lucrative “exit”, instead transforming itself into a “public benefit corporation”, obliged to think more about its impact on society than its potential riches from selling up. Its CEO, Yancey Strickler, delivered a polite but clear message to the technology world.“Every giant corporation started as a small company, but at some point they lost their soul. I think there are other entrepreneurs and people like us that want to do something more than just survive or get rich,” he said. “They shouldn’t be forced to put aside their strong beliefs just to get that cheque.” He also criticised Silicon Valley culture. “So much of the zeitgeist in the world of business and technology and startups is about ‘be more aggressive than the next guy, be harder, be faster, be paranoid’. All these things. It’s all wrong. Being patient, thoughtful, creative, trying to make the right decisions. That’s what matters.”Ford’s future is more than cars and trucks“We have to make great cars and trucks today, but we also have to imagine a future of transportation as a service,” said Bill Ford, great-grandson of Henry Ford, and executive chairman of the motor firm that he founded. “What if a car could stop just being a method of transportation, and what if a car could start solving problems for people?” he asked.Ford said current technological trends represent the biggest disruption in the history of the car industry. “If you think of this industry, we’ve been revolution-resistant for 100 years. If you look at the business model of our industry from when my great-grandfather started Ford, it didn’t really change a lot,” he said. Self-driving cars are one of those challenges. “We used to talk about autonomous driving as 25 to 30 years away. Well no, it’s not,” he said. “The pace of change is always going to come at us much faster than we thought.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dance-music star Steve Angello told the summit about his unconventional plans to release his next album. Photograph: Naoise Culhan / SPORTSFILE / Web Summit/Naoise Culhan / SPORTSFILE / Web Summit/SPORTSFILE/CorbisIn the streaming age, the album is evolvingAs Spotify nears 100 million users, and services like Apple Music and Google Play Music continue to grow, the way music is released may be changing. Dance-music star Steve Angello explained how his forthcoming Wild Youth album will be released unconventionally: “I’ve decided to split my album and do chapters, where we have a pre-order that releases a couple of tracks. Then we go into a chapter of the album, which is going to be half the album. Then we present six videos, then we go into the second half, then we go with six other videos,” he said.“Kids today are different from what they used to be. We have kids that are spending eight, nine hours a day on their phones on social media … So for me to split it up, it’s going to make it more interesting for me and the fans, because they can be part of it. And if you’re trying to tell a story today with an album, you need their attention.”Twitter is changing online satireOn Twitter, anyone can fire off one-liners in response to topical events. That’s upping the pressure on satirical websites like The Onion to be funnier. “There is more pressure to be quick,” said its president, Michael McAvoy. “The bigger point is: are you commenting on something in a unique enough way that, even if you don’t have the first joke, you have the best joke?”He also said that sites like The Onion are finding partnerships with big brands, which want to associate themselves with comedy sites even if they’re spiky. “For us, it has always been through advertising, yet The Onion also has this anti-establishment ethos. It’s a delicate balance,” he said. “The right brands understand that to reach people under 35, you need to do something different, and the best way to do something authentic is through comedy. Be in on the joke, and don’t take yourself too seriously.”