Following our Reading Group vote, I have to admit some relief in announcing that Jane Eyre has trounced Don Quixote. I am keen to try a tilt at Cervantes one day – but, for now, a familiar Victorian classic feels like an easier bet than a strange 17th-century doorstopper.Although, “easy” is probably not the best word to use in relation to Charlotte Brontë’s awkward, fiery novel. It’s a book that has always been divisive. While a large majority spoke up for Jane Eyre, others dismissed it with adjectives including “sleep inducing” and even “vintage chick lit”.I found that second remark amusing at first – yet the more I thought about it, the more I worried about the suggestion that a book for women might somehow be less worthwhile. The more I wondered about how much contemporary “chick lit” isn’t given the attention it deserves, and the more it felt like the kind of criticism Brontë had to endure in her own lifetime.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘In short, Brontë annoyed people’ ... Charlotte Brontë, born 200 years ago this year. Photograph: Apic/ Getty ImagesIt’s worth remembering that Jane Eyre received plenty of positive attention, not to mention a wide readership, when it first came out. But much of the other criticism was dazzlingly angry. Most famously, in the Quarterly Review in 1848, Elizabeth Rigby declared: “the popularity of Jane Eyre is a proof how deeply the love for illegitimate romance is implanted in our nature”. She admitted that “some” of the characters and events in the book are “masterly in conception”, but also said Jane and Rochester did things “utterly beyond the bounds of probability”, lamented the novel’s “coarseness of language” and spent pages and pages lambasting the “crying mischief” the book does in presenting such an “unregenerate and undisciplined spirit” as Jane Eyre. Her ambivalent verdict: “It is a very remarkable book: we have no remembrance of another combining such genuine power with such horrid taste”.There was also a stinger in the Rambler in 1848, furious at Brontë’s daring to write (however elliptically) about sex: “Jane Eyre is, indeed, one of the coarsest books which we ever perused,” the writer raged. “It is not that the professed sentiments of the writer are absolutely wrong or forbidding, or that the odd sort of religious notions which she puts forth are much worse than is usual in popular tales. It is rather that there is a tendency to relapse into that class of ideas, expressions, and circumstances, which is most connected with the grosser and more animal portion of our nature; and that the detestable morality of the most prominent character in the story is accompanied with every sort of palliation short of unblushing justification.”In short, Brontë annoyed people. And she has continued to do so. Jean Rhys spent decades battling her memory, for instance, composing The Wide Sargasso Sea as an answer to the injustice she saw in Jane Eyre. She felt that Bertha, the madwoman in the attic, had been treated with cruel neglect, having no voice of her own, having her “madness” described (by Rochester) as a kind of moral failing, and receiving few thoughts about her own suffering.There are plenty of other reasons modern readers might also object to Jane Eyre. Few nowadays would approve of the narrator’s cruel, self-regarding brand of Christianity. Plenty would argue that the way she throws herself on the mercy of a man like Rochester doesn’t make her much of a feminist role model. Some might balk at Jane’s ultimate happiness depending so much upon material wealth…My hero: Charlotte Brontë by Tracy Chevalier But that’s to rush to the end before we’ve even begun. All of these issues will provide rich ground for discussion in the coming weeks – but for now, isn’t it also telling that generation after generation has felt so compelled to hold this novel in judgment? Jane Eyre feels so real and urgent that it’s hard just to dismiss it as fiction, even if the fiction is so splendidly wrought. Few (except, maybe, Emily) can beat Brontë when it comes to moody atmospherics, heartfelt yearning and good old-fashioned pathetic fallacy. The first paragraph sets the tone wonderfully: There was no possibility of taking a walk that day. We had been wandering, indeed, in the leafless shrubbery an hour in the morning; but since dinner (Mrs Reed, when there was no company, dined early) the cold winter wind had brought with it clouds so sombre, and a rain so penetrating, that further outdoor exercise was now out of the question.I hope you’ll join me over the next month as we plunge over the moors and into Rochester’s moody embrace. By way of encouragement, we have five copies of the new Vintage classics edition to give away to the first five readers from the UK to post “I want a copy please”, along with a nice, constructive comment in the comments section below. If you’re lucky enough to be one of the first to comment, email Laura Kemp with your address (laura.kemp@theguardian.com) – we can’t track you down ourselves. Be nice to her, too.In the meantime, as usual, I’ll be glad to receive all thoughts and suggestions for potential discussion topics. And don’t worry too much if it’s taking you a while to read this weighty book. I’ll try to keep things reasonably general at first … and I’m guessing most people know what happens at the end anyway.