Keith Richards’ Lost Weekend 7pm, BBC4Ever dreamed about staying up all night with Keef? Now you can – Pro Plus or something in hand – as Uncle Pirate-Chops hijacks HMS BBC4 for three nights in this curated TV experiment. Interspersed among his throaty ruminations and jams, the handpicked goodies include old clips, cartoons, comedies and vintage movies (noirs and cult horrors such as swinging 60s occult-thriller The Sorcerers). Satisfaction guaranteed. Ali CatterallJamie’s Family Super Foods 8pm, Channel 4It’s easy to be cynical about Oliver’s quest to make people healthy. Far too easy, really. But credit where it’s due, he turns up some delicious-sounding recipes here, all of which take ingredients under the “superfood” banner and bring them together into something you might consider for a midweek breakfast, lunch or dinner. Inspired by some rather lavish travelling, there’s great pasta from Sardinia and a hotpot influenced by Korean kimchi. Ben ArnoldStrictly Come Dancing 9pm, BBC1Sparkly, sparkly, sparkly! It’s back! Joy! Or – to put that more soberly, after the phoney war ushered in by those Mission Fabulous trailers – the first episode of this weekend’s double bill will have six couples doing competitive hoofing out on the floor for the first time under the critical gazes of Len Goodman and friends. Nobody will be eliminated this week, giving us the chance to get to know Anastacia, Ed Balls, Tameka Empson, Daisy Lowe et al. Jonathan WrightGogglebox 9pm, Channel 4As the eighth series starring the nation’s favourite sofa-dwelling critics begins, the trusty old TV-watching format remains as entertaining as ever. Old favourites such as Leon and June and Steph and Dom are among the viewers casting their eyes over the week’s telly. So if you haven’t made your mind up about this year’s X Factor judging panel or just want reassurance that you’re not the only family that shouts at the TV, let Craig Cash and his merry band calm you. Hannah VerdierAquarius 9pm, Sky AtlanticDouble bill of this strange series in which fact and fiction meld in late-60s America. Charles Manson meets the Beach Boys’ Dennis Wilson, who considers the mass murderer and Beatles’ White Album misinterpreter the most “tuned-in” guy he ever met. Then David Duchovny’s Sam investigates a murder amid the violent aftermath of Martin Luther King’s assassination. But no amount of procedural can alter what we know to have been the grisly facts of history. David StubbsOriginal Sin: Sex 9pm, National GeographicThis six-part series explores our beliefs about sex and how they’ve changed over the past half-century. This week, the focus is the education – or lack thereof – that has been historically available to young people. Despite innovators such as Masters and Johnson and Mary Calderone, by the 1990s the American government had moved towards a conservative, abstinence-only stance on sex ed. Intriguing stuff, if all very US-centric. Hannah J DaviesThe Lie Detective 10pm, Channel 4Since we use algorithms to find partners, it was probably inevitable that we should end up using technology to determine the path of those relationships, too. This intriguing new series has private investigator Dan Ribacoff using his trusty polygraph machine to referee ructions between couples at various stages of relationships. There’s banality but doses of genuine sweetness, too, as players quit their games and speak from the heart. Phil HarrisonFilm choiceGirl With A Pearl Earring (Peter Webber, 2003) 11.40pm, BBC1An exquisite adaptation of Tracy Chevalier’s bestseller about the circumstances that led to Vermeer painting his masterwork of the title. Seventeenth-century Delft is re-created in images and light that seem to have leached from the Dutch master’s canvases, courtesy of Eduardo Serra’s beautiful cinematography. Scarlett Johansson is a luminous presence as Griet, the gentle kitchen maid who becomes muse to the brooding Vermeer (Colin Firth) and lusted after by his wealthy patron Van Ruijven (Tom Wilkinson). Paul HowlettLive sport Cycling: Eneco Tour Coverage of stage five, a 20.9km team time-trial in Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands. 1.30pm, Eurosport 1Championship Football: Preston North End v Wigan Athletic Two Lancastrian strugglers meet at Deepdale (kick-off 7.45pm). 7pm, Sky Sports 1Rugby: Bristol Rugby v Exeter Chiefs Coverage of the match from the fourth round of fixtures. 7pm, BT Sport 1