I love green beans so much, especially in summer, that I’ve decided to squeeze in an extra dish this week and let the recipes speak for themselves.Green beans with peanuts and limeUse any fresh, seasonal beans: string beans, fine beans, romano beans, yellow beans, mangetout – adjust the cooking times depending on the bean. I serve this hot here, but it’s also lovely at room temperature – add the lime, peanuts and coriander just before serving, though. Serves six.1 small Chinese cabbage, cut widthways into 4cm-thick slices (600g) 300g sugar snaps300g french beans, trimmed300g runner beans, trimmed, fibrous threads removed and cut into 5cm pieces3 tbsp groundnut oil40g peanuts (skin on or off), chopped2 shallots, finely chopped (100g)5cm piece fresh ginger, peeled and finely chopped3 garlic cloves, crushed4 sticks lemongrass, trimmed and finely chopped 5 kaffir lime leaves, finely slicedZest of 1 lime shaved off in thick pieces½ tsp white peppercorns, crushed1 tsp coriander seeds, crushedSalt10g coriander leaves, roughly chopped2 tsp lime juiceBring a large saucepan of salted water to a boil. Blanch the cabbage for 20 seconds, lift out with a slotted spoon, refresh under cold water and drain. Add the sugar snaps, french beans and runner beans to the boiling water and cook for four minutes, until cooked but still with some bite. Drain and refresh under cold water. The cabbage and beans need to be dry, so pat them down with a clean tea towel.Heat the oil in a large saute pan on a medium-high flame, then fry the peanuts for one to two minutes, until golden brown. Remove from the pan with a slotted spoon and drain on a plate lined with kitchen paper.Add the shallots, ginger, garlic, lemongrass, lime leaves, lime zest, pepper, coriander seeds and three-quarters of a teaspoon of salt to the hot pan and fry on low-medium heat for 10 minutes, stirring every now and then, until golden brown. Discard the lime zest, then add the beans and cabbage to the pan. Stir-fry for two minutes, until everything is combined and the vegetables are hot. Off the heat, stir in the coriander, peanuts and lime juice, and serve.Green beans with wasabi and shisoI love the fiery wasabi in this dressing, but start with less if you don’t like it quite so hot; you can always add more to taste. If you can’t get shiso, just double the amount of mint. Serves four as a side dish.100g frozen edamame150g garden peas, fresh or frozen200g broad beans, fresh or frozen100g sugar snaps, cut on an angle into 2mm-thick slices2 spring onions, thinly sliced on an angle15g coriander leaves, roughly chopped5g small mint leaves, picked4 shiso leaves, finely shredded (or another 5g mint leaves)2 tsp black sesame seeds2 tbsp baby (or micro) coriander leaves (optional)For the wasabi dressing2 tsp wasabi paste2cm piece fresh ginger, peeled and finely chopped (10g)1 tbsp rice vinegar2 tsp mirin1 tbsp groundnut oilFinely grated zest of 1 small lime1 red chilli, deseeded and finely choppedSaltPut all the dressing ingredients in a bowl with a third of a teaspoon of salt, and whisk to combine.Bring a medium saucepan of water to a boil, add the edamame and peas, and blanch for a minute. Transfer to a colander with a slotted spoon, refresh under cold water and tip into a large bowl. Add the broad beans to the boiling water, blanch for a minute, then drain, refresh, peel and add to the bowl. Add the remaining salad ingredients apart from the baby coriander, pour over the dressing, toss and serve sprinkled with coriander, if using. Braised new potatoes with broad beans and pink peppercornsAdd the lemon juice just before serving, otherwise the beans will lose that vibrant green colour. Serves six.900g very small new potatoes (if more than 3cm wide, cut in half or quarter)10g thyme sprigs10g mint sprigs2 bay leaves2 strips lemon peel, plus 2 tsp juice1 large garlic clove, peeled and crushed with the back of a knife1 tbsp olive oil20g unsalted butter500ml vegetable stockSalt and black pepper3 large spring onions, trimmed and cut into 3cm pieces1 tsp pink peppercorns, lightly crushed250g broad beans (fresh or frozen), blanched for two minutes, drained and skinnedPut the potatoes in a large saute pan for which you have a lid. Tie together the thyme, mint, bay leaves and lemon strips with string, and add to the pan with the garlic, oil, butter, stock, half a teaspoon of salt and a good grind of black pepper. Bring to a boil, reduce the heat to medium, cover and simmer for 12 minutes until the potatoes are almost cooked. Take off the lid, increase the heat to high and cook for 10 minutes more, until there’s just a bit of sticky sauce left in the bottom of the pan. Remove and discard the herb bundle.Add the spring onion to the pan and cook gently for two to three minutes, stirring frequently and crushing some of the potatoes as you go, until caramelised. Remove from the heat, stir in the crushed pink peppercorns, broad beans and lemon juice, and serve.Spring vegetables with lemon béchamelThis dish pulls off the neat trick of being both light and comforting. It’s perfect with roast chicken. Serves six as a side dish.200g podded broad beans, fresh or frozen650g charlotte or Jersey royal potatoes60ml olive oilSalt and black pepper2 leeks, cut in half lengthways, then into 7cm pieces7 baby courgettes, cut in half lengthways230g asparagus, woody ends trimmed100g sugar snap peas, cut in half lengthways2 garlic cloves, peeled and thinly sliced5g tarragon leaves, roughly chopped10g mint leaves, roughly shreddedFor the lemon béchamel sauce40g unsalted butter40g plain flour300ml whole milk2 egg yolks3 strips shaved lemon skin, plus 2 tbsp lemon juice50g parmesan, finely gratedStart with the béchamel. Put the butter and flour in a small saucepan on a medium-low heat. Stir for two to three minutes, until the butter has melted into the flour and the mixture comes together into a paste. Gradually add the milk to the roux, whisking continuously until smooth and combined, then add the egg yolks, lemon skin and an eighth of a teaspoon of salt. Whisk for a further six to seven minutes, until thick and smooth, then take off the heat, stir in the lemon juice and half of the parmesan, and cover with clingfilm: you want the film to touch the surface of the sauce so it prevents a skin from forming.Heat the oven to 220C/425F/gas mark 7. Bring a medium saucepan of salted water to a boil, then blanch the broad beans for a minute. Scoop out the beans with a slotted spoon and transfer to a bowl of cold water to stop them cooking. Add the potatoes to the boiling water and cook for 15 minutes, until the tip of a sharp knife goes in easily, then drain.Drain and peel the beans. Put the potatoes in a large bowl and lightly crush them with the back of a spoon. Mix in two tablespoons of oil, a third of a teaspoon of salt and plenty of pepper, and spread out on a large, high-sided roasting tray or ovenproof dish that you’re happy to bring to the table, ideally one measuring 30cm x 40cm. Roast for 10 minutes, until just starting to brown.Mix the leeks with a tablespoon of oil, an eighth of a teaspoon of salt and plenty of pepper. Stir through the potatoes and roast for five minutes. Mix the courgette, asparagus, sugar snaps and garlic with a tablespoon of oil, a quarter-teaspoon of salt and plenty of pepper. Stir through the potatoes and leeks until everything is evenly distributed and roast for another five minutes.Sprinkle the broad beans over the top, spoon on the béchamel (discard the lemon skin at this stage) and sprinkle with the remaining parmesan. Roast for a final 10 minutes, until golden brown on top, sprinkle over the tarragon and mint, and serve at once.• Yotam Ottolenghi is chef/patron of Ottolenghi and Nopi in London.