Ricky Gervais sometimes gets people’s backs up and so, it transpires, do reviewers who write about him. “B4 you write another @guardian review endorsing jokes about #trans people,” I was advised on Twitter after covering Gervais’s recent show, “please consider the impact.” Gervais dedicates a section of his show Humanity to jokes about (specifically) Caitlyn Jenner but also, by sly association, the idea of transgendering more widely. “If I say I’m a chimp, I am a chimp,” one riff begins, as Gervais makes merry with the culture of identity as self-assertion – and scores dependable laughs with rudimentary monkey business too.Ricky Gervais review – ruthless, self-revealing show is his best yet I wasn’t surprised by that tweet, because I’d been brooding on Gervais’s trans material (and, indeed, his cot death material), and the degrees to which I found it appropriate, or offensive, or funny. Would I have reviewed him more harshly if those jokes had been, for example, about race rather than gender? I feel like I’m learning every day about gender right now, and I want to write about it sensitively and appropriately. Despite Gervais’s repeated assertions that he wasn’t being transphobic, it seemed clear that he was “othering” trans people and making them seem ridiculous. I stated that he could be “callous and objectionable”, and that his material was insensitive to trans people.Sometimes, a comedian’s apparent opinions, or the way they express them, can be so unpleasant, that no amount of joke-writing skill, and fantastic material elsewhere in the set, can redeem them. (I’ve found that to be the case with Gervais in the past.) But here, while it would be disingenuous to exonerate Gervais’s trans routine by arguing that it was about Jenner alone rather than trans people generally, it was specific to Jenner to a substantial degree. And Jenner’s celebrity and her public sparring with Gervais over his Golden Globes speech are fair game.Gervais argues forcibly in the show – as usual – that there’s no such thing as off-limits in comedy; there’s nothing you can’t joke about. I agree with that – just as I agree that comics, like anyone else, should take responsibility for what they say, do and effect. He deserves to be called out on his routine poking fun at the idea of transitioning, but I do think that the concepts he zeroes in on (“deadnaming”; identity as self-assertion) are fertile for comedy, precisely because they’re new, they’re destabilising, and (whether you welcome them or not) we’re still establishing where the boundaries around them lie. (A process with which comedy may help.)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Public sparring … Caitlyn Jenner. Photograph: Tibrina Hobson/AFP/Getty ImagesSo, that’s what I thought about Gervais’s trans material. A little snide, but (when it wasn’t being snide) childishly funny. Amusingly spiky about Jenner. Contrarily pushing back against what he sees as diktats and what others see as requests for courtesy or compassion. Does reviewing his show in those terms add up to an “endorsement” of his jokes? Is it even possible to endorse a joke? That would imply that jokes are vessels for opinions, which is only sometimes the case, and not clearly so here. Or is the problem that I endorsed the act of joking about trans people? If so, I didn’t single them out – on balance, I would endorse the principle of joking about anybody.But I acknowledge that others wouldn’t. We’ve probably all got weak spots, sensitivities or ironclad principles, the monstering of which we just can’t find funny. Is it possible to laugh at a joke you “disagree” with? One of the challenges when writing about comedy is tracking those interactions between the head, the heart and the funny bone. Of course, the best comedy short-circuits them entirely, and you find yourself laughing at jokes that wholly up-end your politics, your sympathies and your expectations. But often I find myself sitting stony-faced in an auditorium, not because the jokes are bad per se, but because they’re promoting a worldview that I find cruel or cynical or rightwing.I dare say that happens to theatre and music reviewers too, but less so – because those artforms address how we live now, its mores and ideologies, more obliquely. The artists in those fields tend to take less overt or provocative stands. But comedy often compels the critic (this one, at least) to take a political position; to not do so would feel dishonest. Sometimes, I fight that instinct: I have no desire to be the PC police, nor to rank comedians (add a star, subtract a star) according to their fidelity to left-liberal pieties. If I’d been that guy, I’d have marked down Gervais. But while I wish he’d curb his crasser instincts, and I don’t find his impulse to mock sympathetic, I do think it’s possible to appreciate a show without endorsing every opinion it seems to express.Three to see      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Like Father Like Son … Scott Gibson plays the Glasgow comedy festival. Photograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianGlasgow comedy festival A cracking lineup on the west of Scotland, as Glasgow’s annual comedy carnival enters its second week. Local heroes featured include Frankie Boyle, Burnistoun duo Iain Connell and Robert Florence, Fern Brady and the Edinburgh festival’s best newcomer winner Scott Gibson with his new show Like Father Like Son. • Festival runs to 26 March. Count Arthur Strong There were no signs that unexpected mainstream success had blunted the sharp edges of Steve Delaney’s malapropping, senile alter ego when he last toured in 2015 [https://www.theguardian.com/culture/2015/apr/20/count-arthur-strong-review-reading-hexagon]. Now Delaney’s deluded ageing thesp hits the road once more, in a new confection rejoicing in the title The Sound of Mucus. • On 15 March at Palace theatre, Southend, 15 March. Box office: 01702 351135. Then touring.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Spoof of old-school sexism … Zoe Coombs Marr. Photograph: James BrownZoe Coombs Marr Nominated for an Edinburgh Comedy award last year, the Aussie character comic’s follow-up to 2015’s show Dave is a cracker. Doubling down on her spoof of old-school sexism, Trigger Warning mocks Gaulier-style clowns too. It’s richly complex, but surpassingly silly too. • At Soho theatre, London, from 16-25 March. Box office: 020 7478 0100. 