The pastime of rope-swinging from a towering red-rock arch in Utah could be banned within weeks, as government officials weigh the objections of hikers and environmentalists against the wishes of a hard core of thrill-seekers.Shrieks of excitement regularly fill a remote canyon near the town of Moab, as adventurers fling themselves off the top of the 140ft Corona Arch and swing in a breathtaking pendulum.But after one death, at least two serious injuries and a rapid increase in numbers flocking to take part, after online videos spread the word, the sandstone-swingers’ days may be numbered.The federal agency that owns the canyon in which Corona Arch is located, the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), last week officially asked the public to comment by 25 September on a proposal to ban rope activities at the arch for two years while research is done.“We are not considering this lightly,” Beth Ransel, a field manager at the BLM office in Moab, told the Guardian. “We are receiving a lot of comments. There is concern related to damage to the rock from rope burns. But what we are really trying to address is user conflict.”More than 40,000 people visit the arch every year, the vast majority being hikers, sightseers and photographers. An unknown number, estimated by the BLM to be a small minority but growing, go there to swing from the ancient rock.The craze took off quite recently, when videos showing climbers fixing a rope at the top of the arch and oscillating back and forth in the picturesque setting became popular. In 2012 one such video, dramatically titled The World’s Largest Rope Swing, went viral. It has now been viewed more than 24 million times.Reports grew of excited participants queuing up in the formerly-tranquil canyon to fling themselves off the arch, in pursuit of an extreme adrenaline rush.In January 2013, the state of Utah, which then owned the land, banned commercial operations from taking paying clients to swing from the arch – but placed no restrictions on private parties. In March that year a man fell to his death after leaving too much slack in his rope. In front of at least 70 people, including “many children” according to official reports of the accident, he crashed into the rock at the base of the arch.Ransel forwarded to the Guardian comments left in a registration book at the head of the trail, where hikers sign in before heading to the arch. One written weeks after the fatal accident read: “Saw the blood under the arch.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The BLM took over ownership of the site earlier this year. In May 2014, a rope-swinger was critically injured and ended up in a coma. Complaints have increased, with the BLM recording comments such as “Get rid of the rope-swingers, it is ruining the experience for everyone else” and “When did Corona Arch turn into a Disneyland theme park?”Online comments and those submitting to the BLM in favour of the rope swingers made comments such as: “It’s just some young people having fun and not hurting anyone, leave them alone.”Sallie Hodges, a resident of Moab for 10 years and chief executive of the Moab Pride Festival, said next month’s Gay Adventure Week, running up to the October festival, would offer visitors all the outdoor activities for which Moab is famous – such as mountain biking, rock climbing and the more controversial four-wheel-drive sports – but would strongly discourage anyone from swinging from Corona Arch.“I got invited to go up and rope-swing and I thought, ‘That sounds fantastic,’” Hodges said. “But when I got up there I quickly realised that some people were jumping off under the influence of alcohol and marijuana. “Some didn’t seem to know what they were doing. One of my friends got caught in the rope and was stuck, swinging for 20 minutes with a painful rope burn on her arm before climbers managed to free her. It’s really dangerous. And people scream and yell when they’re swinging.”An initial BLM report said the arch “suddenly appears in a spectacular setting. There is often an atmosphere of quiet reverence on the part of the visitor as they grasp the enormity of the view.” It said visitors came from around the world to see Corona Arch and may only have one opportunity to do so.The report noted that climbers have put bolts in the rock and there is “noticeable scarring” on the arch, caused by rope activities.The BLM proposes banning rope-swinging, rappelling, all forms of tight-rope walking and ziplining from the arch and a nearby site called Gemini Bridges, which it calls “outstanding geologic formations”.There and at the nearby Arches and Canyonlands national parks, there are no fences. Much of the landscape’s preservation is based on trust.One online commenter took an unusual view of the debate, writing: “I don’t understand this state. We tolerate polygamy but not swingers.”