The refugee crisis is a powerful testament to Jordan’s resolve, resourcefulness and ability to offer human solidarity to more than 1.5 million Syrian refugees (Fears grow for ‘ghost refugees’ stuck at border between Jordan and Syria, 5 September). Jordan has shouldered the brunt of refugees’ burden on behalf of the whole world. It is hypocritical to negate Jordan’s response to the worst humanitarian crisis of our age at a time when the UK remains silent, ignoring the plight of Syrian children in the Calais camp and far beyond.Dr Munjed Farid al QutobAmman, Jordan• Hartsdown academy in Margate demonstrates to pupils that those in authority can exercise power brutally and arbitrarily (Police called after school turns away pupils for wrong uniform, 7 September). What aspirations does the school have for its pupils? It seems focused on nothing more ambitious than preparing them to work in a Sports Direct or Amazon warehouse without complaint.Ros CampbellLeeds• Very interesting (Woman captured in photo of victory kiss dies aged 92, 12 September). Yet over the years a few women (including Edith Shain, who died in 2010 at 91) have claimed to be the famous kisser, while a string of men have also taken credit. Who knows? As a 2015 USA Today story by Lindsay Deutsch reported: “The mystery may never be truly settled, depending on whom you ask.”David TulanianLos Angeles• Max Fishel (Letters, 12 September) is confusing  science with art. A hot blue Bunsen flame makes a poor picture. Any professional photographer in a lab wants the flame turned to yellow. It will leave a sooty mess and doesn’t heat, but looks more appealing. That wasn’t a science lesson, it was posing.Barbara Cummins (ex-science teacher)Lewes, East Sussex• I was shocked by the picture on page 2 on 12 September: never mind Hillary Clinton in a state of collapse: the Secret Service agent in the foreground is wearing brahn shoes (Letters, 12 September)!Ralph JonesRochester, Kent• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com