Guest appearances, soaring covers and gusty winds were the order of the day for Friday at Coachella where Kanye West and Seal made their way through the sandstorm to provide unlikely cameos.A$AP Rocky: ‘Hanging out with Rod Stewart is like seeing yourself 40 years older and white’ Seal appeared on stage with LA’s R&B curio Gallant to perform Seal’s hit Crazy, and he assisted Gallant with his track Weight in Gold. While that went down well in the Mojave tent, A$AP Rocky’s set, which was delayed and almost canceled because of the high winds and sand blowing around, saw Kanye make a puzzling cameo. At the end of an impressive set by A$AP Rocky, in which he ran through recent hits such as Pretty Flacko Jodye and L$D with the help of a barbershop quartet, Kanye appeared to play The Life of Pablo track Father Stretch My Hands Pt 1. But his vocals were barely audible and the crowd was instead treated to what amounted to a bizarre mime show.Earlier in the day on the main stage, Years & Years won over the crowd with their brand of dance-pop featuring set closer King, while Foals’s transformation from skittish indie outliers to full-blown stadium rockers looked complete with a set that probably belonged further up the bill.The Last Shadow Puppets set in the Mojave stood out for the theatrics of Alex Turner, who wore a mustard suit and ran about the stage weaving in between the group’s string section while flailing a tambourine in the air. In between switching from thanking the crowd for its generosity, then imploring them for more applause and informing them what key songs were written in, the pair showed the songwriting craft that they’ve honed on their new album Everything You’ve Come to Expect. Charm, however, seems to be a quality that they still lack.Sufjan Stevens’s set was part Technicolor sensory overload and part singer-songwriter masterclass, with dancers and neon decoration that brought a touch of the psychedelic to the desert. With tracks including I Want To Be Well and Impossible Soul, it was one of the day’s standout performances.Sufjan Stevens talks to Dave Eggers: ‘I was recording songs as a means of grieving’ On the other side of the spectrum were Savages, who eschewed subtlety for a visceral and lapel-grabbing set, with lead singer Jehnny Beth putting paid to the idea that the era of the frontperson is over. Walls of noise, feedback and wailing guitars provided the backing for Beth, who switched between performing in the crowd and producing slam poetry on Shut Up. Pummelling and unapologetically bruising, the band’s live offering is much more than style and overly serious posturing.Jack U certainly wasn’t serious. While M83 soothed the crowd with their “Imax electro pop”, Jack U’s set was loaded with more drops than a paratrooper regiment, as he remixed and rejigged anything imaginable (the Imperial March, anyone?), turning it all into one repetitive EDM showcase that was torturous or joyous, depending on your attitude toward endless wobbly basslines.LCD Soundsystem’s headline set saw them complete their comeback, picking up where they left off in 2011. Under a giant disco ball, they ran through Us v Them, Daft Punk Is Playing at My House, You Wanted a Hit, Tribulations and a brilliant version of Yeah, which descended into an acid house workout. The potency of tracks such as Someone Great was definitely still there, but it was the band’s cover of David Bowie’s Heroes and segue into Guns N’ Roses’ November Rain that defined their set. 