Artsnight: What Has The Turner Prize Ever Done For Us? 10.10pm, BBC2Since 1984, the Turner has occupied a singular place in Britain’s cultural landscape. It’s routinely derided, and yet the exposure it offers to more outre works – like Anthea Hamilton’s towering buttocks – feels pretty healthy in a country where art seems to be slipping down the educational pecking order. Ahead of this year’s ceremony, Waldemar Januszczak explores its importance. Phil HarrisonMichael McIntyre’s Big Show8.10pm, BBC1The refreshingly naive extravaganza returns, with its pranks and games expanded to the point that star turns from Ellie Goulding and the cast of School Of Rock feel like needless intrusions. McIntyre ribbing a teen about his posey Instagrams, or texting Olly Murs’s contacts, is happy fun, devoid of cynicism and enhanced by the host’s improv skills. Plus, the finale – with a fireman singing a Les Mis number – is worth 10 X Factors. Jack SealeCoastal Path 8.10pm, BBC2If you’re going to take a walk, go big. At 630 miles long, the South West Coast Path is Britain’s premier pathway for perambulation. Paul Rose explores the rambling route, looking at the history, industry and wildlife along it, while meeting those who live there. There’s also the promise of Paul partaking in an extreme activity each episode, which tonight involves coasteering: scrambling, and occasionally swimming. Continues Friday. Mark Gibbings-JonesDeep Water 9pm, BBC4One day, TV dramas will be about something other than graphically gruesome serial murders and the impact they have on investigating officers… but not yet. Noah “Game Of Thrones” Taylor stars in this grimly absorbing Australian drama about a killer who lures his victims via a social media app. Tonight, reeling with remorse at Toohey’s death, he and his partner look into his past links with gangs and put the spotlight on Hammers, a gangster-turned-businessman. David StubbsThe Rolling Stones: Ole Ole Ole!11pm, Channel 4Fifty years after Castro banned the Beatles from Cuba for their pernicious North American influences, their one-time bad-boy rivals – and latterly, most-establishment rock‘n’roll band in the world – became the first huge international band to play Havana. This concert film follows the Stones’ 2016 tour of Latin America, which also took in Chile, Argentina, Uruguay, Brazil, Peru, Colombia and Mexico. A warm, uplifting road movie with soul. Ali CatterallAtlanta 10pm, FoxDonald Glover’s rap dramedy continues. Directed by Hiro Murai, the man behind Glover’s more surreal Childish Gambino music videos, the show emphasises character development over storyline, making it slow in pace but a series to be savoured. In the first episode of tonight’s double bill, Paper Boi clashes with a rival at a basketball game and Earn accidentally falls in with Atlanta’s elite, while the second sees Van make a mistake while hanging out with an old pal. Grace RahmanTony Robinson: Down Under 9pm, More4Final instalment of the energetic travelogue. While running around Bondi beach wielding a Super Soaker, Robinson recounts how Australia suffered at the hands of Japanese air strikes during the second world war. He also meets former prime minister Kevin Rudd, who casually drops in some fluent Mandarin. Perhaps the most surreal moment, though, is when he catches up with a fox hunt in an arid corner of New South Wales. Graeme VirtueFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Good in the hood?... John Singleton’s seminal LA drama. Photograph: COLUMBIA/AllstarBoyz N The Hood (John Singleton, 1991) 10.45pm, BBC2A young black lad’s struggles on the streets of LA, where crack, bad cops and gang warfare are rife. Brought up good and proper by dad Larry Fishburne, young Tre Styles (Cuba Gooding Jr) avoids violence, until his friends are shot up. Singleton’s hip-hop tale pulses with an angry authenticity, now seen as a key text in the Black Lives Matter era. Paul HowlettStrange Days (Kathryn Bigelow, 1995) 11.10pm, SyfyBigelow’s crunchy futureworld fantasy is pitched somewhere between Blade Runner and Cronenberg’s Videodrome. Ralph Fiennes’s Lenny – flogging cyber-records of real, raw human experiences – is a terminally sleazy but recognisably noir antihero, hurled into a revolting trade in hi-tech snuff movies. Superbly made and surprisingly uncompromising. PHThe Raid (Gareth Evans, 2011) 1am, Film4A black-clad Swat team trapped in what looks like the biggest, filthiest, grimmest tower block in Jakarta have to fight their way floor by floor through hordes of blood-crazed gangsters, to take out the drug lord on the top floor. The set-up couldn’t be simpler; the non-stop fights couldn’t be more kinetically, intensely brutal; and in Iko Uwais as the rookie cop Rama, young master of Indonesian martial arts, there is a hero to rival Bruce Lee. PHLive sportTest Cricket: India v England 6am, Sky Sports 2Day three of the second Test in the five-match series.Premier League Football: Manchester United v Arsenal 11.30am, Sky Sports 1The old rivals kick off at 12.30pm. Later, at 5pm on BT Sport 1, Tottenham face West Ham.Rugby Union: England v Fiji 2pm, Sky Sports 2The second of the home side’s four autumn internationals.