Initially the electric vehicle, or EV, looks good: you can still get a grant for one, which brings the cost of a van down by around 20%, and there are simply no tailpipe emissions. However it's important to remember that in effect you are transferring your pollution to a different part of the carbon cycle. Tailpipe pollution is swapped for smoke-stack pollution.Unless you have calculated the amount of electricity you need to recharge and have a renewable option to cover this, such as photovoltaic panels, your EV is not carbon neutral. When you plug into the grid to recharge, you become dependent on the energy mix of the country you live in. In the UK that's not an altogether rosy picture.Here we are largely dependent on coal and gas. A recent study on the real impact of EVs by Norwegian researchers also took into account the carbon-intensive production of EVs. The results were disappointing. Producing the vehicles, particularly the batteries, is polluting. Drive 100,000km (the average battery warranty) over the lifetime of your EV and its "eco" benefit is just 9-14% better than petrol.Here's another issue: imagine there are suddenly 10 million EV owners who all want to charge their EVs after work. This is a nightmare: 80GW of power, or the entire generating capacity available for the UK, would be needed to charge this fleet. Mass EV ownership is simply not viable without an overhaul of the electricity network. Therefore it's incumbent on EV owners to push for a smart grid revolution, too.But let's go back to the future. As petrol gets dirtier (for example requiring oil to be squeezed from tar sands at huge ecological cost), EVs will get cleaner, and easier to produce. Meanwhile the mix of renewables in the UK is supposed to increase (by 2020 coal will provide just 11% of energy). Plus, you can already begin to see the shape of a network of fast-charging points. Institutions such as MIT are working on improving the EV performance to get greater range per unit of electricity (such as working on a cooling/heating system that isn't reliant on battery power).Every day a little more is done. EVs could finally be on the right road, and for that reason this is the route I think you should take.Green crushIt feels as if the nation is slowly reskilling, what with bake-offs and sewing bees. DIY skincare is next. The @Made_In_Hackney kitchen leads the charge with its low-cost edible cosmetics workshops. Julie Riehl (biologist and botanist) and Sarah Bentley (ecologist and permaculture champion) teach all you'll need to know to refill your bathroom cabinet with non-toxic, homemade alternatives that are pure enough to eat (though they warn they don't taste brilliant). Go to madeinhackney.orgGreenspeak: Carpoolchella {ka:-pu:l-tſElei} nounHats off to US music festival Coachella. Carpoolers who went four or more to a vehicle at this year's festival could enter a draw to win VIP passes for life from 2014. Now that's what we call an incentiveIf you have an ethical dilemma, send an email to Lucy at lucy.siegle@observer.co.uk