Those attention-seeking celebrities just love getting naked. So much so, they’ll find any excuse to strip off. Pictures appeared last week of leathery rock legend Iggy Pop posing nude for Brit artist Jeremy Deller’s life-drawing class at the New York Academy of Art. The 68-year-old Stooges frontman is merely the latest in a line of famous types baring all for tenuous reasons. Here are six of the stars’ favourite justifications for getting their kit off…Fur enoughFor 25 years, animal rights group Peta has been persuading stars to pose nude for its “I’d rather go naked than wear fur” campaign, which first made waves when supermodels Naomi Campbell and Christy Turlington took part.Who’s done it? Pamela Anderson, Pink, Alicia Silverstone, Eva Mendes. Mainly women but the likes of Rylan Clark, Iggy Pop (him again) and, er, the Situation from Jersey Shore have kept the male end up...Scales of justice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Helena Bonham-Carter with a bigeye tuna, in support of charity Fishlove. Photograph: FishloveLike a piscine version of Peta, charity Fishlove gets celebs to pose nude with sustainably caught fish (remember Helen Bonham Carter cuddling a tuna ?) to raise awareness of overfishing. Must get smelly under those studio lights.Who’s done it? Judi Dench, Julie Christie, Ben Kingsley, Jerry Hall, Greta Scacchi, Gillian Anderson, Richard E Grant, Hugh Bonneville. Chips with that?Bumps-a-daisyEver since Demi Moore posed naked while seven months pregnant for the iconic 1991 Vanity Fair cover, celebrity mothers have been “doing a Demi” by baring their baby bumps. Pass the Bio-Oil and cocoa butter.Who’s done it? Christina Aguilera, Claudia Schiffer, Mariah Carey, Sienna Miller, Britney Spears… plus, in slightly less A-list news, Myleene Klass, Abbey Clancy and Cara and Billi from Towie.Carry on campaignTo draw attention to a problem, taking your kit off is a surefire way to hit the headlines.Plenty have stripped to make political points about body image and other women’s issues. Although, as Lena Dunham said after posing naked for Planned Parenthood: “That’s just not my particular zone of terror. There are so many things I would be so afraid to do, like hike Mount Kilimanjaro or go to a crossfit gym or talk to Charlie Sheen.”Who’s done it? Courtney Love and Miley Cyrus to campaign against Instagram’s nipple ban; Keira Knightley to protest against retouching; Amy Schumer and Beth Ditto to promote body positivity.Art exhibitionism      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lucian Freud’s painting of Kate Moss. Photograph: Peter Macdiarmid/ReutersNudity doesn’t count in the name of art, right?Who’s done it? Kate Moss, Lady Gaga, Sean Connery, Seth Rogen and Lindsay Lohan have all posed for nude portraits. Musicians from Prince to Rihanna have got naked for album covers. Then there are actors who disrobe on film. As spoof reporter Dennis Pennis asked Demi Moore: “If it wasn’t gratuitous and it was tastefully done, would you consider keeping your clothes on in a movie?”Wagers of sinBlokes love “bantz”, betting and getting their bits out. Hence the men who have vowed to strip for a sporty forfeit.Who’s done it? Gary Lineker has promised to host Match of the Day in his underpants if Leicester win the Premier League. Arsenal fan Piers Morgan vowed to do a naked conga around the Emirates Stadium if striker Olivier Giroud scored against Barcelona. What lads. Aged 55 and 50 respectively.