My father, Tony Augarde, who has died aged 80, described himself as “a writer, musician and word expert”. He was an accomplished jazz drummer, a newspaper arts editor and word quiz broadcaster, while also working for the Oxford University Press for 30 years. He was a committed pacifist.Tony was born and brought up in Tunbridge Wells, Kent, the son of Brian Augarde, who worked for the Union Corporation in London and was a code-breaker at Bletchley Park during the second world war, and his wife, Josephine (nee May).He attended the Skinners Company school (now the Skinners’ school) and went to St Peter’s Hall, Oxford, to study English, graduating in 1960. He then joined the Oxford University Press dictionary department, rising to become departmental manager and compiling dictionaries including the Oxford Intermediate Dictionary, the Oxford School Dictionary and the Oxford Dictionary of Modern Quotations. He also worked on the supplement to the Oxford English Dictionary and the Pocket Oxford Dictionary. He had a huge enthusiasm for words, word games, jokes and puns, and produced five books on word games including The Oxford Guide to Word Games.Tony was given a drum kit for passing the 11-plus and played as a self-taught jazz drummer for more than 50 years in numerous ensembles, from the Oxfordshire jazz scene to wedding dance bands, to Vile Bodies, the band created in the early 1980s by Humphrey Carpenter, which was resident at the Ritz hotel in London. He joked: “I’ve played everywhere, once.” He played with such prestigious British musicians as Alan Barnes, George Chisholm, Mark Nightingale, Tommy Whittle, Malcolm Creese and Jim Tomlinson. Tony wrote for Jazz Rag and Crescendo magazines and broadcast a weekly jazz programme to BBC local radio in the south-east.For 10 years he was arts editor of the Oxford Times, on a freelance basis, reviewing music, theatre, art and television. He appeared on BBC Radio 4’s Wordly Wise, Word of Mouth and Bill Bryson’s series Mother Tongue. He gave talks at literary festivals in Cheltenham, Swindon, Poole and Kent, and broadcast regular word quizzes on radio stations including Talk Radio UK and LBC. At the time of his death he was still writing a monthly Wordplay column for the Oxford Times.Tony joined the Peace Pledge Union (PPU) in the early 1970s and was involved in campaigning against the arms trade and promoting white poppies. After his retirement from the OUP he worked in the PPU London office and in 1990 published a book, Peace is the Way, with Cyril Wright.Tony is survived by Fleur (nee Whitwell), whom he married in 1961, by my brother, Charles, and me, and by four granddaughters.