‘Jackself and Jeremy Wren are setting / nightlines in the kidney-coloured pool … ” From the first line of what would become Jackself, his 2016 TS Eliot prize-winning collection (though not, in the end, the first line of the book) Jacob Polley knew he had something different on his hands. “Oh goodness,” he thought. “What on earth are you doing? This” – each poem telling a small part of a larger story – “isn’t the way to be writing a book of poems, like those ones you wrote before.”It is a surprise to discover this tentativeness, because Jackself is so confident, both in its handling of narrative (of two boys’ rural childhood), and of emotion. Polley’s voice is by turns mischievous, demotic, delicate, direct – and funny. So, for instance, Jeremy Wren makes a 9ft snowman based on his father “so I can give him a smile / stonier than a lip smile / poke myself / in the eyes on his hand sticks / run clean through him / and leave a me-hole”.In another way, however, it isn’t a surprise at all, because this is how Polley works – waiting, like Jackself and Jeremy Wren night fishing, to see what he might catch; trying to be, as he puts it, “a fool”. “I’m a fool as a writer because you have to be kind of stupid, and naive, and prepared to take risks and not overthink, or think your way out of those risks.”Of course, a “fool” encompasses both mental emptiness and licence; seeming simplicity and a capacity to convey complex truths. Allowing oneself to be a “fool” requires an underlying confidence, which Polley clearly possesses. He was successful early, a couple of poems being collected in a Faber anthology; was being talked of as a star in the making even before he was chosen, in 2004, as one of 20 Next Generation poets, a group that included Alice Oswald, Patience Agbabi and Jean Sprackland.Jackself by Jacob Polley review – sinister and mysterious He had been nominated for the TS Eliot prize twice, for his first collection, The Brink (2003), and his third, The Havocs (2012), before winning it for Jackself, his fourth. He has also written a novel, Talk of the Town (2009), about two teenage boys growing up on the edge of a village, friends changed by a terrible act of violence. Written in a kind of heightened Cumbrian dialect, it vividly captures lives surrounded by wild open spaces but as limited in opportunity as the smoky, stale bothy in which the two boys keep ending up. It won both a Somerset Maugham award and the Geoffrey Faber memorial prize.Did the novel make Jackself possible? There’s the obvious similarity of subject, but also the control of narrative, the sense of character. “I don’t know – one of the things about writing the novel was that it threw me back to writing poems with a renewed sense of the possibility of the poem,” says Polley. So, for instance, he discovered that he loved “writing dialogue – that’s something you don’t really experiment with or do much in poems”. And with dialogue came the ability to use shifting points of view, of a narrator, of Jackself, “a soft-lad, a quick- / tear, a worry-wit” – at least according to his friend, the mercurial, charismatic, elementally sad Jeremy Wren.But there were other things, too, as Wren’s name suggests. Polley had already been experimenting with using old English forms – ballads especially, nursery rhymes, songs; “Langley Lane”, in The Havocs, is a moving use of the ballad form that manages to combine a modern story of a boy getting stabbed in the wrong bit of town with the grief and incantatory mystery of Keats’s “La Belle Dame sans Merci”, which uses an older form too, for some of the same purposes. “My son, you walked from Langley Lane? / I walked from Langley Lane. / I took small steps and often stopped / to breathe around the pain.” Jackself (the word is Gerard Manley Hopkins’s) plays on the Jacks of English myth and folklore – Jack Frost, jackdaws, applejacks, jack-o’-lanterns – to set up echoes and undertows, then hitches them to an awareness of even older poetry, medieval and Anglo-Saxon.“A lot of a writing life is a search for technique,” says Polley. “The 10,000 hours or 40,000 hours or whatever it is – you need to do that. You have to absorb something about the handling of metre. I’ve got lots of unsuccessful ballads. But when the material and the form suddenly marry, then it’s what you’re writing for, you know, that’s the exciting bit.”Jacob Polley: ‘If I’m writing a poem, I should be kept busy doing anything other than writing’ Polley was born in 1975 and grew up in Bowness-on-Solway, near Carlisle, the eldest of three children, two boys close in age and a girl, 13 years younger. “I had a lot of freedom when I was a child. I didn’t go to primary school in the village where we grew up. I went to a village a few miles away – and I used to bike there [alone]. I can’t believe I did that.” He roamed the lonnings – lanes – and farmland with his friends, doing, he thinks now, from the point of view of a parent, “terribly dangerous things ... Blades and fire – you name it – and trees. I remember pedaling over a crossroads at speed without looking. Daring things – which were really fucking stupid, you know.” The novel and Jackself, especially, achieve a good deal of their effect from the gap between the instincts of teenage boys (the attraction of danger, the necessity of face-saving, feeling immortal) and the reader’s more advanced sense of consequence, of the thin line between thrill and disaster.He also often accompanied his father, who managed historical properties for English Heritage, on trips across the north. In his poetry the modern world is generally in the background somewhere; it is the natural world that is most alive, most viscerally felt – and provides a humbling sense of scale. Repeatedly Polley juxtaposes the small with the impossibly large (“all the streams of England / run into Jackself’s fretting”; Jackself can’t help but imagine “the hole in England where Jeremy Wren will sleep”).Again and again he butts the immediate up against a sense of deep time: so in The Brink a pike swims “in the poem of its own prehistory”. There’s often a sense of consciousness, too – a persistent watching and knowing, even within the supposedly inanimate – “that wasn’t me in the frogspawn”; or a marsh “where the estuary thinks the same things as the sky” (The Havocs). It’s an effective method of seeing things fresh, to imagine them animate, or to start in close then zoom out until a thing looks nothing like itself, either metaphorically or as part of the poem’s structure, as in “The North-South Divide” (The Brink), in which Polley imagines Britain tipped up, “the bows of Scotland lift clear / of the Atlantic … a whale hangs a moment / singing in the vault / of St Paul’s”.When Polley was 15 his mother had an aneurysm; she had another two years later. During our interview, he says he wrote poetry because he was “really lazy” – “I wrote one-page essays at school. Admirable concision but, you know, ‘Come on, where’s the rest of it?’” – but later he suggests another reading. “My mum being ill probably coincided with the period when I found poems, or poems found me … I discovered this art of compression and distillation [at a time] when events compressed, somehow, my emotional life, and caused me to begin to explore what it might mean to release some of this pressure into poems.” I think you have this lightbulb of experience, this core buried inside you and you write out of the light that casts “I think you have this lightbulb of experience,” he says, “this core that’s buried somewhere inside you and you write out of the light that casts … It takes a long time to process experience. And actually the experiences that are most valuable to us usually happen before we can articulate them. That’s what’s so powerful about them.” He knew by his mid-teens that it was important to him to produce poems; it took a few more years to realise that “sitting about waiting for the writing to be delivered, somehow, into me”, didn’t really work – “I actually had to spend time sitting on me arse on a chair, doing this every day. You have to be in the game in order to receive that idea.”This was greatly helped by something that seems impossible now – a job writing poetry. After he graduated, and had knocked about for a couple of years working in bookshops and on the nightshift at Carr’s Biscuits, he landed a position as a poet in residence at the local paper, the Cumberland News. Every day he turned up at work, “because it was expected, really”, to write a poem to length and deadline. “It really reinforced some of the things that I was discovering, which was you can just hit the page and see what happens. And that you have to learn to turn whatever material you get into something that’s at least all right.”He also learned the basic requirement – not always apparent in poetry – of the need to respect the reader; to communicate, to entertain. He taught poetry in schools, did readings, developed collaborative relationships with people such as the film-maker Ian Fenton (with whom he recently made a short film, Keeping House) and the designer and visual artist Imogen Cloet; for two years he had a fellowship at Trinity College Cambridge. In terms of poetry, he could hardly have done better – published consistently by Picador, all those prizes, being a part of a rich writing culture in Newcastle (he now teaches at the university), the nearest big city to Carlisle, working with poets such as Colette Bryce and Paul Farley in Sean O’Brien’s Northern Poetry Workshop – but as a professional poet he was averaging earnings of £6,000-8,000 a year. Was he ever tempted to try his luck elsewhere? No. “I was really foolish. I just thought, ‘I’m going to do this. And if I look for some job in London or something in the real world then I won’t do this.’”It wasn’t until he was in his mid-30s that a job came up, teaching at St Andrews, and he found himself in receipt of an actual salary. “It was like receiving a prize every month. It still is, really. I can’t believe I resisted it for so long.” A year ago, aged 40, he and his partner Mai Lin Li bought their first home, on the coast in Newcastle. Their son, Ben, is now two.One review of The Brink described what Polley does as a calling, “a kind of secular transubstantiation”. Would he agree? “Whenever I’m writing it seems to me I’m doing two things, and one of those is a kind of gesturing toward something that cannot be reached by language. A sense – it’s not quite a religious sense – that there are things outside our direct experience that we can’t bring into language. The other thing is kind of contradictory, which is working in this system of language that is absolutely capable of suppleness of expression, of lyrical beauty.”So a kind of faith, perhaps, but also an attention to the process of writing poetry itself. Every collection has a go at describing this, wondering “if I could snag this night / in these lines” (The Brink), or finding that “I smell the air crackle with immanent rhymes” (Little Gods). Or as Jeremy Wren puts it, scabrous and acute: “there’s a proper poem for you / agony to bring up / with real carrots in it”.• Jackself by Jacob Polley (Picador, £9.99). To order a copy for £7.99 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.