Arrivals 7pm, Channel 4Watching strangers entering Heathrow airport arrival halls doesn’t sound like a thrilling way to spend an hour. But, actually, this film is rather sweet. And among the gap year kids and long-distance lovers, there’s real pathos in the shape of Khaled, a Syrian refugee waiting for his three-year-old, Ali, whom he hasn’t seen in a year. “Will he even recognise me?” he wonders. Their reunion is the documentary’s emotional gut-punch, making the occasional longueurs worthwhile. Phil HarrisonRobot Wars: Battle of the Stars8pm, BBC2Baying crowd? Tick. Underground carpark vibe? Tick. Heavy rock soundtrack? Tick. It couldn’t be better: a kind of guilt-free version of dogfighting with a thin veneer of engineering knowhow bolted on. Even celeb guests such as Suzi Perry and the Brownlee brothers can’t disguise the fact that the real stars of the show are the sheet-metal creations doing battle in the arena. Pro tip: build a big robot with a ramp at the front. Concludes tomorrow. John RobinsonJonathan Creek 9pm, BBC1Kicking off with a gloriously lurid tribute to the heyday of Hammer horror, the latest mystery for Alan Davies’s mooching sleuth sees him drawn to the seemingly cursed country seat of Daemons’ Roost to reconnect with a previous client. Along with wife Polly (Sarah Alexander), he inevitably digs up much more than he bargained for. Warwick Davis provides enthusiastic comic support as an illusion-loving vicar, while Creek’s much-missed duffle coat makes a cameo. Graeme VirtueJames May: the Christmas Reassembler 9pm, BBC4It’s very easy to imagine the young James May on Christmas morning, 1972, rapt with joy at his new Hornby Flying Scotsman. It’s also easy to imagine the little scamp a few hours later, in floods of tears after piloting his latest toy violently into a wall. In this festive special, he relives this childhood trauma by reducing his model train to its 138 tiny component parts and then lovingly restoring it to its full glory. PHDisappeared: The Search for Cody Dial 9pm, National GeographicCody Dial, a young adventurer from Alaska, went missing in the Costa Rican jungle in 2014, his parents Roman and Peggy last hearing from him in an email sent from a cafe in Puerto Jiménez. Having always suspected foul play, the Dials retrace his footsteps with the help of investigators, speaking to some of those he met in the days leading up to his disappearance. Could he have actually made it out alive? Ben ArnoldPop Quiz: The Comeback9.30pm, BBC4Mike Read must have hoped that enough water had passed under the bridge since his Ukip calypso song for him to venture a proper return to TV. It hasn’t; there isn’t enough water in the universe for that. Here he is nonetheless with the first of two special editions of the 80s show. Stars of that era test their knowledge of what was arguably pop’s finest era, with guests including Toyah Willcox, Leee John, Mari WIlson and Andy McCluskey. David StubbsScream Queens 11.45pm, E4 The zombie lovechild of Glee and Scream concludes with its trademark mix of comedy, horror and extreme darkness. Hester (Lea Michele) is desperate to secure her future so makes a bold move. Brock performs life-saving surgery on Munsch, but will it be too dangerous to succeed? It’s the Green Meanie who poses the biggest threat in this season finale, as one last plan for revenge begins. Ridiculously good fun, with a stellar cast who aren’t afraid to camp it up. Hannah VerdierFilm choicesWallace & Gromit in the Curse of The Were-Rabbit (Nick Park, Steve Box, 2005) 10.30am, BBC1Wacky inventor Wallace and his much smarter dog Gromit are running a pest-control business that gets very busy when a supersized bunny threatens the produce at Lady Tottington’s giant vegetable fete. It’s a hilarious, heartwarming spoof brought joyously to life via stop-motion and modelling clay. Paul HowlettThe African Queen (John Huston, 1951) 10.55am, Channel 5Humphrey Bogart won his only Oscar as Charlie Allnutt, a gin-soaked skipper on the riverboat African Queen. He and Katharine Hepburn’s Rose make one of the great odd couples, sparking off each other in every cranky exchange along the leech-ridden river as they struggle to sink a first world war German gunboat. PHEthel & Ernest (Roger Mainwood, 2016) 7.30pm, BBC1      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tender and moving … Ethel & Ernest. Photograph: Vertigo FilmsThis screen version of The Snowman creator Raymond Briggs’s graphic novel about his parents is tender and moving. Briggs’s artwork is beautifully reproduced in a tale that moves from a milkman wooing a maid in 20s south London to the birth of young Raymond, the blitz, through to the poignant, Alzheimer’s-shadowed conclusion. PHBlue Is The Warmest Colour (Abdellatif Kechiche, 2013) 12midnight, Film4This Palme d’Or-winning love story is an intense portrait of quivering youthful passion, much of which is down to the luminous performances of the two young stars. Adèle Exarchopoulos is a thoughtful high-school girl (also called Adèle) who becomes fascinated by mature, intellectual art student Emma (Léa Seydoux). Their ardent relationship is laid bare not just in the utterly honest sex scenes, but in the closeups on their enraptured faces. A deeply touching romance. PHLive sportWorld Darts Championship Coverage of the afternoon session on day 11 in London. 1pm, Sky Sports 1Premier League Football: Southampton v Tottenham Hotspur Spurs manager Mauricio Pochettino once again leads his side to face his former club. 7.30pm, Sky Sports 1One-Day Cricket: New Zealand v Bangladesh The second match in the three-game series at the Saxton Oval. 9.55pm, Sky Sports 2