There I was, 34, splayed out on the back of a fruit cart in a remote corner of Laos in August 2008, after falling down a rain-stricken riverbank. In unimaginable pain, I thought, I can’t believe I’ve broken my back again. Twice in six months.Earlier that year, I’d been on a skiing trip with my mate Matthew to Les Arcs, France. On the third day, bombing down black and red runs, I had underestimated my speed as we’d approached the bottom of the mountain. I’d stopped dead in the snow; my skis planted and I smashed down on my backside. Oddly, I remember laughing from the rush of endorphins still pumping through my brain, but there was a sharp pain, like a terrible muscle spasm. Matthew made an X with his skis to signal for help and I was swiftly taken by stretcher to the nearby medical unit, then by ambulance to hospital.I’m an anaesthetist at a hospital in Yorkshire, so it was pretty sobering to see an x-ray of my own spine with a collapsed L2 vertebra. The doctors made me a back brace and I stayed in hospital for three days, getting by on GCSE French. When I was repatriated to the UK by air ambulance, I couldn’t do a whole lot. I was signed off work and whiled away most of my two-month recuperation playing on the PSP, but as things picked up, my girlfriend Emma and I booked a trip to Thailand and Laos for the summer.My back was fully recovered and I cautiously agreed to go tubing down the Nam Song river in the thick of the Laos jungle. The river was muddy and fast-flowing. I was walking sideways, in flip-flops, along the top of the bank when I lost my footing and crashed, hard, 12 feet to the bottom. I felt a shock through my spine and I couldn’t move. I was scared: I thought this break would leave me paralysed. A crowd gathered around me. I told them to line up the buoyancy aids and roll me on to them. They borrowed a fruit cart from a farmer nearby and used the wooden board on the top as a stretcher. I was hoisted up the bank and wheeled through mud to the main road, where they flagged a tuk-tuk to take me 4km to a two-room hospital. My muscles were seizing up and there were no painkillers other than the ibuprofen and paracetamol in our rucksacks. When they x-rayed me, there was no sign of a break. They had x-rayed too low but I wouldn’t find that out for another 10 days, until I reached the Bumrungrad hospital in Bangkok, where a CT scan revealed a piece of my thoracic spine (disc T12) was smashed to pieces.Experience: my dad set me on fire The worst was the days in between. We found out our travel insurance was defunct by five days, due to an overlooked T&C about the length of our trip, and I endured a four-hour ambulance ride to Vientiane (Laos’s capital), gritting my teeth over pothole after pothole in the worst pain I have known. We felt isolated and lonely, and it took everything in me to sit through the agony of that one-hour flight to Bangkok for the luxury of fully functioning healthcare. As I went for surgery the next morning, I was told that one knock could have paralysed me. I thought of all those potholes.After 10 days in Bangkok, I flew home with titanium rods in my back. Sedatives ensured that I didn’t remember much of the flight but I do remember the enormous relief when Dad picked us up from the airport. I was signed off work again, this time for three months.Until now, I haven’t been able to recount the story without feeling horror and a shudder through my spine. In the short term, I sold my skis and Emma wouldn’t go away with me the following year: she thought I was bad luck. My fitness has taken eight years to return and I’m half an inch shorter due to the surgery. I’ve since been told by doctors that I have thin bones, which goes some way to explaining why this happened twice. I’m a more cautious man now. We’ve since had a little boy, Theo, two, and our second child is due in December. You won’t ever get me on a rollercoaster with them. And my mates call me Dr Glassback, so I suppose, finally, I can laugh about it.• As told to Deborah LintonDo you have an experience to share? Email experience@theguardian.com