At Scrivener’s in Buxton – five floors of dusty, toppling heaven for the bibliophile – I picked up a yellowing copy of The Ha-Ha by Jennifer Dawson, a novel that was first published, to prize-winning acclaim, in 1961; reissued as a Virago Modern Classic in 1985; and has since fallen out of print. This latest development in its history is, now I’ve read it, bewildering. Such a brilliant book, and so timeless. If I were a publisher, I would prepare a lovely new edition, with a rousing foreword by someone like Ruby Wax or Alastair Campbell, and sell the merry hell out of it. At a tea party Josephine sees not earnest girls in pretty dresses, but 'even-toed ungulates… hosts of big black flies' As perhaps you’ve guessed by now, assuming you don’t know it already, The Ha-Ha is a short, singular, elegant novel about someone with mental health issues. Based on Dawson’s own experiences – she had a breakdown at Oxford and later worked as a psychiatric social worker – it is narrated by a young woman, Josephine, mostly from inside the hospital where she is recovering from a severe bout of mental illness. As a period piece, it’s fascinating, having been written just after the Mental Health Act of 1959, but some years before psychiatric hospitals turned their backs on their more draconian practices (“the pads and cooling-off rooms, [the] locked doors”… as Dawson put it later). But since the nature of such illness is unchanging, it speaks to the present, too. What a pellucid evocation of the isolation – “I wanted the knack of existing” – a breakdown brings with it.Josephine’s trouble, too, begins at college, where her only response to the casual aplomb of her fellow students is laughter: baffling, mirthless convulsions that soon prove her downfall. At a university tea party she sees, not earnest girls in pretty dresses, but “even-toed ungulates… files of armadillos with scaly shells, and hosts of big black flies” – until the room comes back into focus, and she is faced with nothing more than the rattle of cups and saucers. Hysterical at the contrast, the game is up. Now they will take her away, and the months ahead will be bounded by recreation rooms, raffia baskets and high walls, not all of which may be easily scaled. “Outside” is about to become another country.