Oompa Loompa. Ross from Friends. Someone covered in Cheetos dust. Social media was not kind about Claire Danes’ appearance at the Emmys. Despite her gold Schiaparelli couture dress she became Fug Girl fodder when Danes’ stylist liberally sprinkled her with fake tan.But this was not a “red carpet mistake!!!”; it was a calculated move. Danes’ team would have had detailed discussions about the amount of bronzer she should use on the red carpet. Which begs the question: does Danes’ pallor suggest our tanning goals have changed?“Claire Danes’ bronzer is threat level TRUMP,” went one Tweet. It was an obvious comparison. Jason Kelly, the makeup artist who worked with Trump at the Republican National Convention, revealed the extent of his bronzer routine. “I know exactly what he does to himself – the tanning bed, the spray tan, he wears the goggles and you can see the hyperpigmentation around the eyes,” he told Harper’s Bazaar “What I’ll do is use a slightly deeper colour and blend it into his tan so there’s not an abrupt contrast. I’m ready for it.” Hmm, sounds very “red-carpet glam squad”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Have you got to fake it to make it? Trump’s tan. Photograph: Jonathan Ernst/Reuters Trump’s look is a deeply constructed one, an exaggerated take on the “successful businessman”. Bright white teeth, luxurious wave-parted hair and deep, deep tan. Widely mocked it might be, but it’s a look that denotes capitalist success. It’s the “I’ve just been on a skiing holiday and have alphabetised by collection of red wine” look. Has it, in some subconscious way, recalibrated the acceptable level of tan?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tony Blair ‘often wore makeup’. Photograph: Stefan Rousseau/APPost-Kim Kardashian, the idea of looking natural has been supplanted by the need for both men and women to look Instagram ready. Revelations that Benjamin Netanyahu spent thousands on cosmetics for a diplomatic trip and Robert Harris saying that Tony Blair, “often wore makeup, even when he wasn’t on TV”, are less shocking when you consider the digital age we live in and the pressure to look good in HD. In the subtle art of bronzer, Trump’s pallor may have started a trend for “more is more”, which Danes has perhaps bought into. Dressed in gold and with an intense tan, she looked like a poster girl for modern success. Although on Emmy’s night, it did not bring her victory. Instead, the award (for lead actress in a drama) went to Orphan Black’s Tatiana Maslany.