Virtuoso Violinists at the BBC8pm, BBC4Nicola Benedetti presents a raid on the Beeb music archives, lauding her favourite bow-waving wizards from Nathan Milstein and Mischa Elman to Nigel Kennedy and Sarah Chang. Some of the footage from decades gone by showcases amusingly twee TV staging and set design but the focus is, of course, on the players’ prowess and there Benedetti is invaluable. She doesn’t say much but what she does is just enough to inform and clarify. Jack SealeMr Selfridge9pm, ITVThe slick but ultimately sub-Downton period drama bows out tonight with relentless retail jargon, hurried conclusions and a sickly montage or two. As news of Jimmy’s death reaches the staff and rumours abound of a major crisis at Selfridges, Mr Crabb discovers some troubling information about Harry’s personal debts. Is there any way our caddish hero can save his retail empire? If you can make it through one final round of trade embargo-themed chatter, there’s a brilliant bit of backstabbing to round things off. Hannah J DaviesBritain’s Secret Slavery Business10pm, BBC2Darragh MacIntyre investigates the problem of people being forced to work for a pittance in poor conditions in the UK. Some come from abroad, promised a new life only to find slum conditions and wages of £10 a week. This is true of one Hungarian who tells MacIntyre about his time at the Kozee Sleep bed factory in Dewsbury. But some already live in the UK, such as one man taken to a farm in south Wales and forced to work there, unpaid, for 13 years. It speaks volumes that Britain now has an independent anti-slavery commissioner. Julia RaesideComedy Playhouse: Stop/Start 10.35pm, BBC1Three couples navigate the rocks and rapids of marriage in this new sitcom from Jack Docherty, transplanted from Radio 4. The USP is a fourth-wall smashing conceit, by which the cast directly address the viewer – and it works seamlessly, albeit overlaid on to a rather old-fashioned dated narrative: suspicious wives, henpecked husbands and all. As Nigel Havers frets about his young bride, Docherty confesses to us that he sometimes thinks about other women while having sex with his wife. “But, in my defence, so have you.” Ali CatterallArtsnight – Thurston Moore11pm, BBC2These days, former Sonic Youth guitarist Moore is a quintessential American in London, a denizen of the capital’s avant rock scene. Tonight, he celebrates the 40th anniversary of punk, sharing his passion with other veterans of the era, including Buzzcocks’ Pete Shelley and the Pretenders’ Chrissie Hynde and director Julien Temple. David StubbsSpin9pm, More4Never mind doing the right thing; in Spin it’s a constant battle to cover up the wrong thing – it’s tough to work out if it’s the self-interest and personal conflict that drives political decisions, or vice versa. Tonight, Bakian tries to blackmail Gabrielle about her son’s adoption. Meanwhile, Kapita’s ex-wife Appoline knows the truth about the hostage negotiations and, despite threats from Palissy, refuses to back down. And Desmeuze manages to get hold of a secret file laden with political dynamite. John RobinsonThe Seventies9pm, Sky ArtsA curious decision by CNN, creators of this US documentary series, to eschew a chronological, year-by-year telling and instead parcel the 70s into thematic chunks. It’s tidier, sure, but also brings a sense of artificial order to a decade that, by most people’s reckoning, was one of most chaotic in living memory. This week’s instalment looks at the wave of violent crime across the period, from the serial murders of “Killer Clown” John Wayne Gacy and David Berkowitz, AKA Son Of Sam (pictured), to the insidious cult of the Manson Family. Gwilym MumfordToday’s best live sport• T20 World Cup Cricket: Netherlands v OmanWith Bangladesh v Ireland to follow from Dharamsala. 9am, Sky Sports 2• Premiership Rugby Union: Harlequins v BathCoverage from the Stoop. 7pm, BT Sport 1• Scottish Premiership Football: Motherwell v Dundee United All the action from Fir Park. 7.15pm, BT Sport 2• FA Cup Football: Reading v Crystal PalaceCoverage of the first of the sixth-round ties. 7.30pm, BBC1Film choiceMidnight In The Garden Of Good And Evil (Clint Eastwood, 1997) 11.30pm, BBC2)At a Christmas party in Savannah, Georgia, the host (Kevin Spacey) shoots dead his lover (Jude Law). In the ensuing investigation, visiting journalist John Cusack is left gawping at the bizarre reality beneath the town’s genteel veneer. Full of vivid characters, the drama gets lost in a baroque swirl but it’s a fascinating portrait of time and place. A Field In England (Ben Wheatley, 2013) 2.15am, Film4)While working on the bigger-budget High-Rise, tearaway director Wheatley made one of his finest works so far: this psychedelic English civil war drama. And what a weird and creepy thing it is, shot in monochrome and set entirely in the eponymous field, where a bunch of deserters fall under the spell of the sorcerer Michael Smiley – and magic mushrooms. Starring Reece Shearsmith and the Mighty Boosh’s Julian Barratt, it’s a period drama like no other.