My daddy was a smart man and a hard worker who carved out a life for us with his hands and a strong back. He never had a formal education and worked so hard his entire life. He was a man of action rather than a man of words. He wouldn’t go around telling us kids how much he loved us but I could always see the tenderness in his eyes.My memories of growing up in Tennessee include memories of all of us kids, memories of singing and church; chores that I never really liked; misty mountains and laughter – yet still dreaming of seeing what the world held for me outside of my mountain home. Of course, not everything was perfect but I prefer to remember the best of times.My mama and her people had all of the musical genes in our family. Mama would sing all of the time and my sisters and brothers loved to sing too. I always tried to get them to be my backup singers when I would pretend to be on stage but they had no interest in taking a back seat to me. Of course, my Uncle Bill was serious about music long before me and as I was growing up he’s the one who saw my potential and worked so hard to give me a chance in the business. He’s a great musician and songwriter in his own right so I know he sacrificed his own ambitions so I could have mine.We were poor but I never felt poor. We always had food, a roof over our heads and clothes on our backs. It wasn’t exactly what we wanted but Mama and Daddy were always quick to point out the families that suffered far more than we ever did. It all seemed just natural to me. It’s only when you look back at beans and cornbread, sleeping several to a bed, using newspaper for insulation and dealing with an outhouse that you realise – yes, I guess we were poor. It was crowded! With that many brothers and sisters there was plenty of teasing and fighting but we were all in it together. Outside was always important because the cabin was too small to sit in there with all of those 12 kids. Outside was just an extension of our house and there was where we often ate, played games and music and did our chores.I feel lucky and blessed. I never doubted for a minute that we [my husband and I] would be married 50 years as long as we were both alive. Carl is my husband and my best friend so we have had a solid foundation to deal with all of the craziness that comes with a performing career.I’m Miley Cyrus’s honorary godmother because I have known her since she was a baby. I go back a long ways with [Miley’s father] Billy Ray and I was so happy for them when they had this little girl. Miley is very talented and she’s had an enormous career but she is still so young. She has a wonderful future ahead of her, and I will always be there to support her and cheer for her success and happiness.Family is everything to me and not just as a loving memory. My family will always be my greatest love. Sometimes it gets lost in the shuffle but there’s an element of family in everything I do. My music is shaped by my family. My theme park, Dollywood, and my show Dixie Stampede are about giving families an opportunity to be together and have fun. And while the Imagination Library, which is designed to promote early childhood literacy, is all about inspiring a love of reading, it is just as much about being together with your kids.• Dolly Parton’s Imagination Library is a free book scheme. Supported by Dialaflight, Imagination Library has now launched in Southwark, south London, ensuring that every child born in 2016 can receive a free book every month until their fifth birthday. uk.imaginationlibrary.com