No one thinks they are going to sit the Queen on a packing-case when she opens the rebuilt Maltings Concert Hall less than a month from now, but completion of the work is touch and go. The workmen are already on overtime and a seven-day week, and to visit the empty auditorium – cork tiles still going down, the cane chairs unassembled ­– wood-shavings everywhere – is to realise just how much has to be done. Long before the Queen arrives for the ceremonial opening on June 5, the main hall at least will have to be ready for an invited audience and a programme of acoustic tests, including not only Benjamin Britten and Peter Pears playing and singing. but such items as “warble tone,” “theatre maroons,” “pistol shot,” “audience quiet,” and “audience shout.” The experts of Arup Associates – the firm which has supervised the work this time as during the original building – are confident that the now famed acoustics of this converted malthouse will be identical with those before.It was not just accident that the acoustics were as good as they were. Arup Associates bring together specialists in civil engineering as well as architecture, and before the design of the wooden roof was devised, there was long consultation with recording engineers from the Decca Company and the BBC. This time all thought of changing the basic design of the roof was set aside. There were arguments after the fire against using wood again, but a comprehensive sprinkler system has this time been included with outlets everywhere and an enormous tank outside holding 5,000 gallons of water under pressure.To a remarkable degree the fire [that destroyed the two-year-old concert hall in 1969] has proved a blessing in disguise. I can hardly imagine that the Sun Alliance Company who insured the building will agree with that statement, but even they have an impressive hoarding to greet visitors as they arrive (“Destroyed! but Insured with Sun Alliance”). For the rest, as Derek Sugden, the architect, points out, they have been able to correct all the minor faults in the design that had appeared during two seasons’ use. Outside, the great square ventilators have lost their louvres. Inside the auditorium the principal change is in the stage. The apron front now has a full range of positions.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Snape Maltings concert hall. Photograph: Arup AssociatesIt is in the outbuildings that you find the principal developments. Even before the fire Arup Associates had drawn up plans for converting the buildings behind the hall, and it was a comparatively simple task to develop these and rearrange the functions. In what were once the turning bays of the old malthouse, extra dressing-rooms have been built. Also two chair stores, and what in a few weeks’ time will be the most luxurious recording-control room in this country with hessian-covered walls and a timber ceiling. As Ron Marsh, Job Director for Arup, explains, Britten will be able to hear any playback of a wording immediately in ideal conditions by just crossing the passage-way. The place already begins to look like the Arts Centre that Britten and his helpers have in mind Similarly with the outside loading-bay at tailboard height, “we shall be able to wheel Ben’s grand straight in.” For the public there is the incidental advantage of easier access to the grass terrace under the restaurant, and a long corridor well suited to exhibitions.All this makes the rebuilt Maltings, far more than just a concert hall attached to the annual Aldeburgh Festival. The place already begins to look like the Arts Centre that Britten and his helpers have in mind, and everyone at Arup points to the advantage of having a thriving corn business in the remaining part of the complex. While work lorries go in and out daily there is no danger of the place becoming simply a cultural retreat, an isolated ivory tower for intellectuals.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fire at Snape Maltings, the Guardian, 9 June 1969. Read the article here andhere.If the hall was originally built on a shoe-string (the total cost of £175,000 a mere fraction of what any comparable building has cost), the aim this time has been – to use Peter Pears’s phrase – “a rather better quality shoe-string.” As with most artistic enterprises money has presented a problem. The insurance took care of the direct rebuilding but the immediate improvements will cost £76,000, and such desirables as a large rehearsal room and a caretaker’s flat will take another £36,000. The fire, it seemed, sharpened people’s senses – here was something that deserved not just rebuilding but development Commander John Jacob, ex-Navy pilot, at present a pig farmer, has over the last few months been shouldering the full-time burden of organising the Snape Mailings Rebuilding Appeal. On Sunday André Previn and the London Symphony Orchestra with Claudio Arrau as soloist will he giving a concert at the Royal Festival Hall in aid of the fund, but even without such special efforts as that, it has plainly caught public sympathy. When the appeal brochure appeared early this month, it told of £32,100 already collected. Within ten days the fund had reached something like £60,000, and every day’s mail was bringing many hundreds of pounds in comparatively small cheques.The fire, it seemed, sharpened people’s senses – even among those who had not actually visited the Maltings – that here was something that deserved not just rebuilding but development, a concert hall and arts centre with unique atmosphere. The enthusiasm has been reflected in bookings for this year’s festival.At the Royal Concert on June 5 we shall be waiting with bated breath to sample the Maltings sound once again, almost as expectantly as we did at the opening three years ago. Then Britten’s ceremonial setting of the National Anthem – first verse slow and whispered, second verse blazing in glory – sent what I can only describe as an electric shock of emotion through the audience. We could well find the voltage up to the same peak on June 5. The inaugural concert at Snape took place on 2 June 1967:      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Guardian, 3 June 1967.