If the Pokémon Go craze has taken over your life, take a break from running around and trying to catch Squirtle, Charmander and Co, and watch our honest trailer which lifts the lid on the game. For all you fans, we’ve also got a hilarious safety animation from a Chinese TV company about the perils of gaming near a cliff. Love the fact that the two players keep on checking their screens even as they plunge over the precipice … Justin Timberlake might want to be demanding danger money for public appearances after a fan slapped him during a gold tournament. And if clues are a little short on the ground for Pokémon hunters, then there are always plenty to get the brain of Sherlock ticking over. The detective, played by Benedict Cumberbatch, and his sidekick Watson, aka Martin Freeman, are back next year and we have a teaser trailer of the fourth BBC series. We also have a trail for the return of horror drama The Walking Dead, now on to its seventh series. The Tonight Show’s Jimmy Fallon combines the talents of Sex&Drugs&Rock&Roll star Denis Leary – the voice of Diego in Ice Age – with Pretty Little Liars actor Shay Mitchell and rapper G-Eazy for a crazy game of Catchphrase. Meanwhile JK Rowling, who wrote the Harry Potter series, also penned the book Fantastic Books And Where To Find Them, which has been turned into a film starring Eddie Redmayne and Katherine Waterston. Rowling wrote the screenplay of the Harry Potter prequel, which is directed by David Yates and will be the first of a trilogy. Magical!   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Sherlock returns for a fourth series1) Pokémon Go (Honest Game Trailers)Monster hit 2) Sherlock: Series 4 Teaser (Official)Give us a clue3) Justin Timberlake -- Slapped at Golf Tourney ... Fan Arrested.Can’t stop the feeling4) Catchphrase with Denis Leary, Shay Mitchell and G-EazyBuzzin’5) The Walking Dead - Season 7 - Comic-Con TrailerZombies return6) Fetching JackDog collars it7) Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them Rowling magic8) Another Car Ride with MotokiBrake dancer9) Chinese animation warning about Pokémon Go Cartoon capers10) Home Alone Co-Star resurfaces after 26 yearsI spider big one