In my teens, I eyed my adulthood with trepidation, as if stalked by a stranger – one who would seize control as if by demonic possession and regard my fledgling incarnation with contempt. I was terrified of growing up to become the anti-me, maturing into a woman whom I would not recognise, and who wouldn’t recognise her younger self. I doubt I was alone as a teenager in seeing adulthood as a lurking betrayal, an impending death. That may be one reason teen suicide rates are so high: for many adolescents, growing up presents itself as a form of bereavement anyway, so it seems as if there’s nothing to lose.Asked to fill the painfully comic Radio 4 slot My Teenage Diary, I scrambled into my attic recently to dig up the damp, furry-cardboard covers of the journals I began keeping when I was 12. Before rereading them for the first time in 40-some years, I worried that I would be embarrassed. Instead, I was infuriated.I didn’t write entries with nearly the faithfulness that I remembered, and I recorded all the wrong things. I often omitted the date. I rarely described what happened: what people said, where I was, what awful incident had driven me despairingly to this notebook. No, what I mostly wrote down was feelings.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I had forgotten quite how massive an upheaval my older brother caused in our family’: a selection of Shriver’s journals. Photograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianSod the feelings! What was your life like? In those days, I disdained a daily “Dear diary” format, in which a girl traditionally included what happened at school, what hurtful remark from a best friend especially smarted, what punishments parents meted out for which offence, what she had for dinner. Know what? Now, I would love to know what I had for dinner.All those small, irretrievable details of the everyday would be invaluable to me now: word-for-word dialogue between classmates, the blow-by-blow of family altercations, my response to larger historical events such as the assassination of Martin Luther King. These journals lack sensory information, too; I would have loved to know what my teens smelled, tasted, looked, sounded and felt like. Even in private, I was too shy to write anything about sex (God forbid I should mention masturbation, at which I was already, if you will, a dab hand, but over which I suffered self-excoriating shame) or what it was like, say, to get my first period.What I did record at length, alas, was woe-mucking about a classmate named Roger Cook. I wasn’t a girl who flitted from one crush to another. I had one crush, which I sustained for five or six years, starting at 11. That suggests an innate constancy from which my husband now benefits. Nevertheless, I had no idea that all the textual outpouring about my unreturned affections would prove so trying decades later. Preparing for My Teenage Diary, I couldn’t bring myself to read most of these sections – and not from embarrassment. I was bored to death.What was interesting: I had forgotten quite how massive an upheaval my older brother caused in our family, and it is this saga that profitably occupies many pages – sometimes with details, with dialogue! Three years my senior, Greg dropped out of school and left home at 14. That was 1968, and his rebellion naturally involved drink, drugs and sex. You gotta hand it to Greg for shacking up (as my mother would say) with not one but two fetching 17-year-old girls, with whom he had regular threesomes. My morally conservative parents were hysterical. While they had knock-down-drag-outs with my brother, I felt sidelined – especially when he would pitch up again:       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I had no idea that all the textual outpouring about my unreturned affections would prove so trying decades later.’ Photograph: Sarah Lee for the Guardian Gregory’s home. You can tell. He walks in and you are small. The air of importance and self-confidence enters the room; a well-travelled, experienced man. Everywhere I go, ‘Are you Gregory’s sister?’ … I am just a stagnant shadow. Just a small child grovelling up the glory left behind by my older brother.Their eldest out of their control, my parents fiercely pressured my younger brother and me to “not turn out like Gregory”. At any sign that I, too, had wayward leanings, my mother would sob. In fact, both remaining kids were constantly subjected to my mother’s moist, mucus-drizzling fits of weeping – literally on our shoulders – while we would feel trapped, hot and secretly unmoved.Me, I chose to draw the line not over drugs and sex (I was bad, just not in plain sight), but over religion – and of this coming to loggerheads with my parents, too, I have excellent records. The daughter of an ordained minister, I had been forced to go to church since I was a toddler. I hated church, and resented being forced to recite the Apostle’s Creed, mumbling: “I believe …” when I didn’t. But, owing to my older brother’s destabilising insurrection, I didn’t make my stand until I was 16:  This is where I draw the line between The Family and myself. I don’t believe in inheriting a set of beliefs. Father once said one of the ‘requirements’ of living in Our Family was going to church. In the same outburst of fury, he detailed a major reason for attending such an institution is because it is a ‘social custom’. I submit 1) that if belonging to Our Family means believing in an accepted doctrine, than I want no part of it. That is totalitarianism. 2) As an ethicist, I cannot imagine how Father can condone pretending to subscribe to a set of beliefs because of social custom. That is advocating hypocracy [sic] for the sake of one’s image.Shortly after writing that passage, I announced I wouldn’t go to church any more, and I doubt I’ve attended a worship service since.Also interesting? I located early evidence of the lifelong resistance to childbearing that culminated in We Need to Talk About Kevin:  I’ve said I don’t like little kids. Mother and Father always smile that secret smile, and finally divulge that it’s not children I don’t like, but ‘the child in myself’. They don’t even ask, they tell.But why don’t I like little kids? Because for one thing I think 78.2% of them are evil – just the same percentage as everyone else. I don’t like them because they have this angelic reputation, this innocent glow, that is simply deceitful. I don’t like them because they cry when their mother leaves, never fail to spread chocolate ice cream all over their bodies and like to scream for the hell of it at ear-piercingly high frequencies. When they become people, that is, when you can see past their dirt-covered faces to a little speck of personality, they become tolerable.As for the writing style, of course, it’s frequently lofty and affected. Take the exhortation to my older brother, in a poem written at the age of 12: “Oh, Gregory! / Love is not gone. / It would simply flourish under / Recognition. / Yes, conversation with that which / Is three years younger may not / Be intriguing, but ought not to be ignored.” With that which is three years younger? Please! And sure, my spelling (charade = “sherade”) is atrocious. Sometimes I try out a word and I don’t quite get what it means, but other times I’m impressed: I clearly understood the definition of osmosis. I concocted my own goofy slang (a “schmerdie” was a jerk or a nerd), which turns out to have been good practice for my latest novel, in which I invent a new colloquial vernacular for the US of the near future.I suspect most of us objectify younger versions of ourselves, passing judgment, sometimes with surprising harshness, as if turning our backs on a friendship gone sour: “You idiot. How could you have squandered so much energy on that guy? He’s just not that into you! They made a movie about it!” But is that impotent chastisement from the Ghost of Christmas Future really a betrayal?As a teenager, I ached to grow up even more than I dreaded to. I craved escape from my parents’ impositions on what I believed. I was determined to become a writer. I yearned to fall in love, and constructed a fetishistic, romantic ideal out of one real, perfectly nice, but probably rather ordinary boy.Over time, I achieved all these purposes: maturity, independence, literary career and a love of my life. I once feared that I would abandon my true self when I grew up, but the adult’s pursuit of those same goals, decade after decade, has entailed a powerful loyalty to the girl. I may have tried to discard a few aspects of the 1970s Shriver – self-conscious pretension, high-flown histrionics, a weakness for unrequited infatuation – and good riddance. I’m still betting my younger self would recognise this wary, hazel gaze in a heartbeat. I don’t think she would be too disappointed by how she turned out.My Teenage Diary featuring Lionel Shriver is broadcast on Tuesday night at 6.30pm on BBC Radio 4 and will then be available on iPlayer Radio.Her 12th novel, The Mandibles: A Family, 2029-2047, was published in May.