Amazing Hotels: Life Beyond the Lobby 9pm, BBC2New series in which Giles Coren and MasterChef’s Monica Galetti join staff at some of the world’s most staggering hotels. First up, Singapore’s Marina Bay Sands: it cost £3.5bn and looks like a spaceship with an infinity pool on its roof. Or as Coren, who can do this stuff standing on his head, says: “A giant greenhouse for growing people in.” While he mucks in as a swimming-pool attendant, Galetti helps prepare a banquet. Ali CatterallSecrets of Coca-Cola: Channel 4 Dispatches 8pm, Channel 4This documentary strand has got form for worrying away at the tooth-bothering soft drink behemoth. Back in 2007, Mark Thomas travelled to South America, India and the US to investigate the way in which Coca-Cola and its suppliers operate – and he returned with much cause for concern on environmental and ethical grounds. Ten years later, Antony Barnett is giving them the once-over again. Phil HarrisonQuestion Time: Britain After Brexit 8.30pm, BBC1It’s funny, but you don’t much hear the phrase “You lost, get over it” as often as you used to. Not since the PM stuck a gun to everybody’s temples, regardless of conviction. But perhaps we’ll hear it bellowed lustily from the stalls again during this Triggering Article 50 “special”, live from Birmingham – along with that other phrase found carved on a bit of driftwood floating in the Channel, circa 2025: “Taken back control.” Ali CatterallBroadchurch 9pm, ITV“Just because he’s an arsehole doesn’t mean he’s a rapist.” Last week we were introduced to the abrasive Aaron Mayford (played by the usually jolly Jim Howick), an ex-con with such a horrible history that he now finds himself chief suspect in Miller and Hardy’s expanding investigation. But is the night-fishing enthusiast just another red herring? Elsewhere, Cath and Trish have a reckoning, while Mark Latimer has some unfinished business from season one. Graeme VirtueLast Days of Solitary: Storyville10pm, BBC4In 2011, Maine state prison launched a programme aimed at reducing the number of inmates in solitary confinement. Filmed over more than three years, this harrowing, visceral documentary follows what happened next. Alongside prison footage and interviews with inmates, there’s much on the history of solitary, which has its roots in Quaker thought and the misguided notion that offenders left alone might become like penitent monks. Jonathan WrightBaby Daddy 7.30pm, E4The new series of this Three Men and a Baby-esque comedy opens with something of a dilemma for Danny and Riley, who are left without a doctor three months into their pregnancy. There’s still plenty of time for jokes about hormones, nipples and mood swings as they bicker and search for a new one. Meanwhile, Ben, the baby daddy at the centre of the story, is causing trouble at a party by mixing his hectic love life with his search for the mysterious Elle. Hannah VerdierEmpire 10pm, E4The third season of Fox’s oddly compelling hip-hop drama returns after a mid-season hiatus. As we resume, Jamal’s in rehab, having been ambushed by his parents after the mayoral concert. There, he befriends fellow musician Tory Ash (guest star Rumer Willis), but will he be able to tackle his addiction and get back to making ropey R&B? Elsewhere, Lucious advances plans for a new musical project he’s calling Inferno, and Andre continues his deadly plot against his father. Hannah J DaviesFilm choiceThe Ninth Gate (Roman Polanski, 1999)8pm, Horror ChannelRoman Polanski’s occult thriller is in a similarly rich-blooded vein as his horror classic Rosemary’s Baby, with Johnny Depp starring as an antiquarian book dealer hired by saturnine Frank Langella to find a set of ancient tomes that will summon Satan. It’s an intelligent gothic chiller.Live sportUnder-21 Football: Denmark v England 5.45pm, BT Sport 2Coverage of the friendly encounter. How are England’s next generation shaping up?Test Cricket: New Zealand v South Africa 9.55pm, Sky Sports 3The fourth day of the final Test at Seddon Park in Hamilton.Test Cricket: India v Australia 3.50am, Sky Sports 2The fourth day’s play in the final Test of the series in beautiful Dharamsala.