Heathrow has thrown its weight behind Britain remaining in the EU, despite the airport’s claim that its expansion plans would become even more urgent if the country voted to leave.The airport said Europe brought Britain more trade and prosperity. The chief executive, John Holland-Kaye, added: “Heathrow believes that the UK will be better off remaining in a reformed EU. We are the UK’s only hub airport, connecting Britain to over 80 long-haul destinations, and handling over a quarter of UK exports – but we recognise that for business to thrive we also need to be part of the single European market.”He said being part of the EU had made air travel affordable and convenient, which fuelled jobs, exports and growth. Holland-Kaye said: “A vote to remain offers the best of both worlds: it secures our place as a powerhouse in the global economy while remaining in the world’s largest free-trade zone.”Despite Heathrow’s support for the campaign to remain, it believes its own prospects could be enhanced in some areas by Brexit. The chief financial officer, Michael Uzielli, said: “Heathrow would continue to thrive, but the decision to expand would be even more urgent if we did leave. “Trade with the EU would be harder than today and there would be more pressure to connect to world markets – and Heathrow is the only airport that connects Britain with those markets. But the imperative to expand is urgent whether we are in or not.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   John Holland-Kaye, who says being part of the EU has made air travel affordable and convenient. Photograph: Martin Godwin for the GuardianHolland-Kaye said he was confident of a positive decision on the proposed third runway in July, once the EU referendum had passed, and that the airport could meet the government’s environmental obligations.One area of negotiation is likely to be how much Heathrow would contribute to surface access work around the hub, including widening the M25, which would cost about £5.7bn according to the Airports Commission, and at least £15bn according to Transport for London. Uzielli said while Heathrow could potentially afford a higher expansion bill, it believed its contribution should be about £1bn. “We’re a very robust company and have a robust financing platform. We raise a couple of billion of pounds a year and are A-rated. It’s more a question of fairness. Where it’s directly related to expansion we think that is part of the costs, but we don’t think that airline passengers should have to pay for other infrastructure.”The comments came as Heathrow reported a 22% rise in full-year profits to £223m for 2015, as 75 million passengers used the airport in its 70th year of operation. 