I have a nightmare dog. She’s aggressive, she’s demanding, she’s incredibly loud and when it rains she wees and poos all over our house. She can be so cruel to our other dog that he trembles all the time. Her name is Ginny, and she’s also, however, one of the most incredibly trained and obedient dogs I’ve ever had, able and willing to perform tricks and obey commands.To most people, these two concepts are mutually exclusive – if she’s so well behaved, surely she wouldn’t bark or try to bite joggers or wee on my socks. But Ginny, a rescue dog who was horrifically abused by her former owners, is mentally ill. She has a severe anxiety disorder, which we’ve made great strides in managing through medication and training but she’s still mentally ill. Handy greyhound facts and other reasons to adopt a large pointy dog today | First Dog on the Moon We can train her every night (and in a sense we do), and she’ll still have bad days, still have triggers that will bring out the scared abused animal in what’s become a normally very sweet and loving dog. Her illogical fear of the rain is why she breaks her almost perfect toilet training. Her almost pathological fear of loud noises is usually accompanied by a warning nip, trying to get people away from her immediate vicinity. Adjusting to that way of thinking – of knowing that we can’t train the “bad” behaviour out of her, that we can only help manage the way her brain works – has been a long and painful journey, that was only made possible by the help of an amazing dog behaviouralist and dog trainer. The idea of a mentally ill dog is a foreign, and sometimes even humorous, idea. Certainly the fact that I’ve spent more money on my “dog psychiatrist” than I do on my own mental health does have a funny angle to it. We’ve had to adjust almost every aspect of our lives in order to help facilitate this kind of thinking. We weren’t prepared to deal with a mentally ill dog, and we can categorically state that people around us aren’t either.With greyhound racing now thankfully banned in NSW, there is an influx of rescue dogs coming into people’s homes. Greyhounds seem to be an almost universally perfect rescue dog, and don’t come with a large host of problems, however, a lot of them have been through some fairly serious abuse. Some ex-racers have been trained with live-baiting, starved and even dosed on methamphetamines to make them more “competitive”. Their housing situations are often extremely competitive, making some of them territorial around food, and jumpy when it comes to sleeping situations. It’s easy to see that while the majority of them are the perfect dogs, some will come with additional mental health issues, of which owners and the general public don’t seem to have a lot of knowledge. Falling in love with Pete: there's never been a better time to rescue a dog | Steph Harmon At a recent Adopt a Greyhound event, I watched, with my heart in my mouth, as a mother held her toddler up to face level of a greyhound. Luckily, the dog was bemused at most, and had the poise to simply shuffle away from the offending grabbing hands and loud noises. If it had been my nightmare dog, that child would have been bitten.  Adopting a rescue dog is both rewarding and the right thing to do but people need to understand that they can be complicated, and to have a little sympathy and consideration.Over the past few years, there’s been a couple of simple things I’ve picked up which are a good way to start being mindful about pets with mental health issues, and ways in which you can help make a difference.Make sure you check with someone before approaching a leashed dog – people don’t do this with Ginny, and they get bitten.Don’t let leashed dogs go and interact with other leashed dogs – it’s a very stressful experience for them, and can easily lead to fights.Really watch out for children – keep them out of dogs’ faces, and don’t let them touch and annoy dogs. Even the calmest dog can feel confused by a child all up in their zone.If you see someone training or discipling their dog, don’t interrupt. Also, don’t go and give us unsolicited advice, there’s a really good chance they’ve heard it all.If your neighbours’ dogs are barking or causing trouble, try to talk to the owners. There could be a compromise or easily-found solution.If you have a dog you suspect has anxiety or other mental health issues, go see a behaviouralist, they can help you understand what the sources of their bad behaviour are and how to manage them.  Ginny has taught us so much about boundaries, about how to respect a dog’s personal space and how to adapt to their needs. Our society expects dogs to adapt entirely to the ways we want them to behave yet it’s us who are abusing and treating dogs badly. Learning how to cater better for mentally ill dogs is actually a responsibility we all share, and it starts by understanding that their space and their behaviour isn’t automatically yours to invade and dictate. It’s about recognising when dogs are uncomfortable, getting out of their faces, and understanding that their behaviour mightn’t be the result of poor training or viciousness. It’s about learning that it’s us, the humans, who might have to modify our behaviour.This article was amended on 12 September 2016 to amend the imputation that greyhounds are often trained with live-baiting. 