Director and writer Tim Webb, 70, co-founded Oily Cart theatre company 35 years ago to make theatre for children under six, and for youngsters with complex learning difficulties, including those on the autism spectrum. This year the London-based company is taking its Shakespeare adaptation In a Pickle to Manhattan, Brooklyn and Denver, and devising a new show based on Coleridge’s poem Kubla Khan, a version of which will be tailored to deafblind audiences.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tim Webb: ‘We knew we could make interesting shows for the under-fives.’How did Oily Cart begin?Back in 1981, we knew we could make interesting shows for under-fives if we thought about what they were really interested in. They had no interest in the proscenium arch [separation between stage and audience], wouldn’t sit still for long stretches of dialogue, but liked different ways of telling a story, through song, puppets, action.Then in the late 80s, the head of a special school in London asked us to do one of our shows for his children [with learning and physical difficulties], aged from 3 to 19. If you can’t see or hear a scene, is it going to work? If you can’t remember what happened half an hour earlier, how do you deal with narrative concepts? We thought this was absolutely fascinating to worry away at.Tell me about In a PickleIt’s based on The Winter’s Tale and starts at the sheep-shearing festival in Bohemia. The sheep offer you, the audience, things they like – flowers, herbs, the wind – then they find a baby, Perdita, and ask the children’s advice on what to do with it. It’s staged on tables covered in grass, which are stripped away to reveal water tanks, which the children can get their hands in, for the sea voyage. Later, for the feast, the tables are covered in cloths with appliquéd or embroidered foodstuffs, which they can caress and prod and explore. We deconstruct the shows for them, and tell them how they might like to react What does it mean to you to take it to America?The real value is spreading the word. These days I do a lot of teaching, mentoring companies, workshops, because I think our approach to people with complex disabilities like autism is effective. I’ve been working with Chicago Children’s Theatre and also with a company in Moscow, who are particularly interested with work that connects with people who are deafblind: that has influenced our new show, Kubla Khan.How will that work?It’s very smelly and touchy. There are three characters, a musician and a stage manager. Each of these characters has a smell, a blend of essential oils, and their costumes have a different texture: one quilted, one corduroy, one velvety, one satiny. None of our audiences come to the experience without some background. We contact the schools we are going to be appearing in, so the parents or the carers know what is going to happen. We deconstruct the shows for them, and tell them how they might like to react: “People will say funny things, so you can laugh if you like.”When they arrive at the venue, they are met by a 3D multisensory map, a journey through the poem, including objects that they will encounter through the performance. There is a channel that snakes around the space, which is our river Alph; it is filled by a fountain, and it flows over the hands and even the feet of the children.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Oily Cart’s In a Pickle – video.What other techniques work?We like to explore the kinaesthetic sense – the sense the body has of its position in space. We’ve done shows with the audience in hammocks or in swing seats, then we moved into the area of trampolines. Young people with a really heavy load of impairment – couldn’t see, couldn’t hear, wheelchair users, with cognitive delay – really responded well to this. As we bounced them on the trampoline, and sang to them, with perfume wafting across them, they would unfurl and sit upright, look around. They became more connected to the world around them. We’ve also used hydrotherapy pools and fans.How many shows have you actually created? Good question [laughs]. We know it’s over 80. At one point we grew tired of inventing titles, so we’d just create new shows with the same name.• For further details go to oilycart.org.uk