The bedroom has never been so stylish. With pyjamas long on the clothes-now-acceptable-to-wear-outside list, and hotel slippers a bit of a cult thanks to Alexander Wang’s spring collection for Balenciaga, the latest thing to move from not-for-public-consumption to alpha item is the dressing gown. Ok, so we’re not talking the terry towelling numbers that kids wear when they get out of the bath. Think, rather, the satin robe that Ginger Rogers wears in Top Hat, or Marlene Dietrich in the 40s in a man’s dressing gown and pyjamas. This is bedroom chic that is silver screen-worthy.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chrissy Teigen doing robe dressing. Photograph: ddpUSA/REX/ShutterstockBut – and here’s the kicker – you don’t want to go around replicating sirens like Dietrich and Rogers. The way to wear a robe out of the house in 2016 isn’t retro, it has a more streety feel than that, and can be worn with trainers as opposed to marabou mules. Rihanna is a master of this. She has worn robes over short shorts and slip dresses, with bucket hats and trainers, while Chrissy Teigen combines hers with distressed jeans. These designs sort-of pass as long trench coats, but have more of a loungey feel.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The robe meets the trench on the Calvin Klein SS16 catwalk. Photograph: REX/ShutterstockIt’s this nonchalance that has now made its way to the catwalk. Calvin Klein’s spring collection was all long layers and trainers, with a casual “I woke up like this” air that wearing what is basically a dressing gown provides. You can buy similar versions at Monki, the high-street centre of this look. Their Davina coat - which almost reaches the floor – is the one to buy. It looks great layered over shorter pieces.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Davina coat atMonki, £65. Photograph: MonkiThere’s also something properly bohemian, a bit Vanessa Bell, about wearing a robe outside. This is the mood that Dries van Noten - who is able to do bohemian without it looking like Sienna Miller at Glastonbury in 2004. The fringed robes on Van Noten’s catwalk are arty and chic, like the navy one now at Cos.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gigi Hadid does the glamour robe. Photograph: Diego Corredor/Mediapunch/CorbisThere’s another school of thought with the robe – one that comes from Kardashian dressing, that brings the glamour whatever the occasion. Kim wore robes as part of her monotone dressing while pregnant – neutrals over neutrals. And Gigi Hadid is into this version of bedroom dressing too. Her red chiffon sequin robe is almost Rogers-worthy – though a word of warning, it may be hard to tap dance and certainly sleep – in those red leather trousers. 