I first met the poet Joseph Brodsky at a dinner in New York in early autumn 1974. I had just escaped from the Soviet Union, and he had been thrown out of the country two years before. After the dinner we went to a café in Greenwich Village. I remember drinking so many espressos – something I wasn’t used to – that I couldn’t fall asleep afterwards because of the heartbeat.Actually the heartbeat was not only due to the coffee. “I think we have a lot to talk about,” said Joseph. We did. We both came from Leningrad and had many friends, acquaintances and experiences in common. We talked about where I had lived during my 10 years in Leningrad, and Joseph knew every spot. He was fascinated by architecture – specifically the canals, arches, bridges and Italianate palaces of Leningrad refracted into abstraction by the ripples of the Neva River. I remember his eyebrows going up when I said my last apartment had been near the Hermitage, just across the Moika River from the house where Pushkin lived and died. He said, with an ironic grin: “And we left all that beauty…”Joseph listened intently. He looked you directly in the eyes, almost like he was digging for truth in the gaze of the speaker. I suppose he was. I think he was wired that way – to watch people’s behaviour, sift it through his intellect and then fashion it into words. He must have gotten some good material that night because he had me trying out my then atrocious English on the Greek waiter who was equally challenged – a sort of linguistic free-for-all that Joseph seemed to relish.Our conversation never stopped. During the subsequent 20-odd years we talked every week – the last time was when he called to congratulate me on my birthday 27 January 1996. A few hours later he died.The meeting with Joseph had a momentous impact on me. I knew his poetry and admired him, although his poems were not published in the USSR and only spread clandestinely. He is one of the few poets – perhaps the only – from the Soviet generation on par with the “magnificent four” of the pre-revolutionary one: Mandelstam, Akhmatova, Pasternak and Tsvetayeva.Apart from the joy of meeting and befriending a great poet, Joseph’s appearance in my life meant guidance, in everything from simple everyday matters to bigger moral issues. I was young and a newcomer to the west, and Joseph had a great influence on my attitude to life. He became in a way my moral compass. We differed in many respects – Joseph was a staunch conservative both in aesthetical and political matters, I am a liberal. Nevertheless, however pretentious it may sound, if I possess a certain moral firmness, it is thanks to him.Mikhail Baryshnikov will be performing in the UK premiere of Brodsky/Baryshnikov at the Apollo Theatre, 3 to 7 May (nimaxtheatres.com)