Here in the UK, we are creatures of habit when it comes to meat. It’s chicken, pork, lamb, beef; breasts, chops, sausages, roasts; week in, week out. And that’s fine: they’re versatile, easy to get hold of and, often, they’re the ingredients we’ve grown up eating. They’re staples on the menu at my restaurant too, featured in dishes that include my spiced lamb shami kebabs and tandoori chicken.What we’re not so good at here is experimenting with different cuts and breeds, preferring to stick to what we know. When I was growing up in West Bengal, we didn’t have the same amount of choice as I have in my kitchen today. Going shopping was a case of seeing what was available at the market, rather than choosing from a consistently wide selection groaning on supermarket shelves. To us, meat, was a treat we had once a week. We’d buy what we could, when we could. With no guarantee that we’d be able to get the same type or cut of meat, our experience of eating it was hugely varied. My mother would adapt her existing recipes to cook whatever was available: rich, fatty pork belly; an inferior cut of goat, such as trotters, slow-cooked into a spiced soup with vegetables; or mutton mince cooked with peas, perhaps stuffed into parathas and eaten with dal and raita. Indian home cooks are endlessly resourceful because they have to be; as is so often the case, limitation and necessity breed creativity.I brought this desire to experiment with meat with me from India and enjoy cooking with it in all its less predictable forms. Mutton fell out of favour in the UK when younger lamb imported from New Zealand became available cheaply. It’s acquired a reputation for being tough – somehow undesirable because of its age – but this toughness in fact makes it perfect for slow-cooking, producing a beautifully tender final result. I’m a great fan of mutton’s bold flavour – it’s like lamb, intensified – and, combined with fragrant spices such as ginger, garlic, chilli and garam masala, it needs little more than boiled rice or plain roti to make a handsome dish. Similarly, a biryani made with mutton is the very best kind; the vibrant, spiced, fatty juices absorbed by basmati rice for a wonderful one-pot meal.Goat is an Indian staple, another meat bursting with flavour that’s suited to curries, biryani and raan (where it is marinated and roasted). Until recently, it’s been hard to find anywhere other than butchers catering for Indian and other ethnic populations, but thanks to businesses such as Cabrito, who now sell kid meat in the UK, it’s more widely available. Goat meat has less fat than other red meats, which means it needs careful, slow cooking (and, often, a marinade to help tenderise it beforehand) to avoid it drying out. The famous Bengali dish kosha mangsho (goat meat curried with potatoes, onion, ginger, garlic and mustard oil), pulled goat shoulder served in a wrap with onion salad and chutney (one of my signature dishes), and the rich goat curry below are a few examples of how I like to put kid meat to work.Today’s recipes are ideal for readers who love to experiment with flavour and texture; witness how both mutton and goat surrender to heat and spice. You’ll be left with gorgeously rich, indulgent dishes that, I believe, wouldn’t be possible with conventional types of meat, both of which need nothing more than a plain, unleavened bread like my quick, deep-fried puri, and a fresh radish salad with a kick of green chilli to accompany them.Rich goat curryYou’ll need to marinate the goat meat for at least an hour before cooking.Serves 4 500g boneless goat meat, diced 4 tsp rapeseed oil 4 red onions, peeled and each cut into 4 pieces4 tomatoes, finely chopped 500ml hot water (add more if required) 4 potatoes, boiled, cooled and chopped into large pieces 1 tsp dried pomegranate seeds A bunch of coriander leaves, chopped For the marinade100g natural yoghurt 2 tsp fresh ginger, grated 2 tsp garlic, grated ½ tsp turmeric powder 4 tsp tomato puree 1 tsp garam masala 4 tsp red Kashmiri chilli pasteSalt, to taste 1 First, make the marinade. Whisk the yoghurt, ginger and garlic, then add the turmeric, tomato puree, garam masala, red chilli paste and a pinch of salt. Mix well, add the goat meat, ensuring it is thoroughly coated, then set aside.2 Heat the oil in a pan. Add the big chunks of onion and fry for 5-6 minutes on a high heat, until golden brown. Add the tomatoes and cook for another couple of minutes.3 Add the marinated meat and turn the heat up high. Keep stirring until the mixture is dry – this will take around 8-10 minutes.4 Add the water and cook on a low heat, covering the pan with a lid, for 30 minutes. Add the cooked potatoes and pomegranate seeds. Cook for a further 30 minutes until the meat is cooked, but keep stirring occasionally. Garnish with the fresh coriander, and serve.Alu bukara (mutton cooked with plums)Serves 4-5 5 tsp rapeseed oil 1 cinnamon stick 4 green cardamom pods 2 red onions, finely chopped 4 garlic cloves, chopped 2 tsp ginger, grated3-4 green chillies, chopped 1 tsp turmeric powder 2 tsp coriander seeds, crushed Salt, to taste 600g boneless mutton, diced 4 plums, stones removed, but skin left on, chopped 4 tsp fresh coriander, chopped 300ml hot water1 Add the cinnamon and cardamom to a hot, oiled pan. Stir in the chopped onions, garlic and ginger, then cook for 12-15 minutes until the onions are brown. Mix in a few drops of water when required, to keep the paste moist.2 Add the chillies, turmeric, coriander seeds and salt. Mix well and cook for 2 minutes before stirring in the mutton. Cook for 10 minutes on a medium heat.3 Add the chopped plums, coriander and hot water, cover the pan and cook for an hour until the meat is tender.PuriMakes 20400g plain flour A pinch of salt 4 tsp vegetable oil, plus extra for frying 100ml lukewarm water 1 To make the dough, sift the flour into a bowl. Add the salt and oil and then mix in using your fingers.2 Gently add water while kneading to a firm dough. The dough should be elastic, not sticky. Cover with a damp cloth and let it rest for 30 minutes.3 Divide the dough into 20 equal balls and roll these out thinly on an oiled or lightly floured surface.4 Heat the oil in a deep wok or frying pan until smoking hot (180C/350F). Slide in one puri at a time, quickly turn and cook for 30 seconds. Remove from the oil and let it drain on kitchen roll. Repeat the same process until all the puris have been fried.Radish salad with green chilli and fresh corianderServes 4 2 bunches radishes, washed and halved 1 green chilli, finely chopped (optional) 3 tsp coriander, chopped2 tsp balsamic vinegar ½ tsp brown sugar A pinch of salt1 Combine all the ingredients in a bowl, then serve.Romy Gill is head chef and owner of Romy’s Kitchen, based in Gloucestershire;@romyskitchen, romyskitchen.co.uk