Evolutionary biologists from British universities have found new evidence to support their theory that, despite their infertile state, post-menopausal killer whales play a beneficial role in the lives of their grandchildren. The scientists have a serious purpose: they want to find out why orcas go through the menopause, a characteristic shared only by pilot whales and humans. But their work produces delightful insights, starting with the reminder that even orcas, most familiar from blood-soaked natural history documentaries, are in fact family-loving creatures that live in caring extended kinship groups, in which the females usually outlive the males by at least 20 years. So far, so very interesting. The danger comes when others take their research and use it to promote their own view of what constitutes a well-ordered society.Evolutionary biologists have been studying orcas for more than a decade in the search for an evolutionary benefit to the menopause that would explain why it happens. They now conclude that in mammal species where family groups stay together (rather than young males or females being forced to leave), there is a benefit in the form of what they term late-life helping. This is not a new idea: it originated in the 1950s. One more recent study suggested that it was actually mothering, not grandmothering, that was crucial: where grandmothers survived, their mature sons lived longer.But it is important to be clear about what is cause, and what is mere correlation; and in evolutionary biology in particular it is never straightforward. A team of Canadian scientists has argued that the only rational explanation for women’s loss of fertility is the outcome of cradlesnatcher syndrome. Since men prefer to have sex with younger women, older women gradually ceased to be fertile. Other research, by evolutionary demographers, examined parish records in Finland and found a beneficial connection between the longevity of grandmothers and mortality rates among grandchildren. A study of Hazda families in Tanzania found maternal grandmothers played a critical role in bringing up their grandchildren. Another study of data from Guatemala seemed to confirm their importance, and even suggested that paternal grandmothers had the reverse effect. In all of these, there is a correlation between the presence of post-menopausal grannies and healthier grandchildren – but whether it is enough to be understood as an evolutionary pressure that caused the menopause remains a matter of argument.This is the real lesson. Evolutionary biology is an absorbing discipline. It is fascinating to try to find out whether, for example, the New Caledonian crow bends a stick to make a tool that deals with the problem in front of it, or does it because it fits in its beak better. But appreciating crow intelligence, although it should make humans nicer to them, says nothing about our social organisation. If the human female orgasm is, as new research argues, a hangover from the time when orgasm stimulated ovulation, it may at last answer an evolutionary conundrum. But it is irrelevant to its role in feminist theory. The value to a family of orcas of having granny around is interesting but it is not about the human menopause, nor about the worth of older women. That is about human values, and nothing to do with orcas at all.