It was once claimed that there wasn’t a street in Glasgow that didn’t also serve as a football pitch. Now those streets lie empty and everyone wonders where all the children have gone. “They’re all inside playing computer games,” seems to be the most common assumption. I have my own theory: they’re all inside watching cookery programmes.Scotland hasn’t qualified for a major international football tournament for 18 years. I’d say that the start of our prolonged international football decline coincides with the beginning of the proliferation of food programmes on our television screens and in popular culture.So far this year I’ve counted 10 series of TV cookery programmes. There isn’t a night in the week when some smug and be-aproned dolt isn’t pouring some unobtainable culinary unguent on to a barely recognisable confection featuring scallops. And you will never win MasterChef unless there are wee mounds of DayGlo-coloured gloop running in and out the lumpy stuff.I’ve even tried it myself, because, well… there’s just no avoiding it. If there are too many electronic Just Eat transactions on your bank account, a red flag will be raised on a Holyrood computer somewhere and you’ll be marched in front of the SNP’s Named Persons politburo.It is impossible to complete even a desultory tour of your Facebook account without being assailed by otherwise sane and interesting people posting pictures of that night’s tea. If there had been social media in the 1970s, the equivalent would have been people posting pictures of their artex ceilings. And when it’s not pictures of their dinner they’re posting, it will be pictures of cats playing computer chess or six-month-old babies playing Smoke on the Water note-perfect on a Gibson Les Paul.The other night, I discovered once more that there was nothing on the telly except wide-boy estuary types talking about “reinforcing the texture of the kale with a wicked injection of cumin”. And so I sought solace on Facebook where my china, Big Tam, can usually be relied upon to post compelling, real-time pictures of gentle inebriation in the Commercial Inn.Before I got very far, though, Buzzfeed, the smart-arse conveyor of digital entertainment, had crashed the feed again with one of those quick recipes that looks as if it has been filmed from above by a drone and then speeded up. Soon, the bait having been swallowed, you find yourself running for a notebook and writing it all down. “Bloody hell,” you start off thinking, “that looks dead easy and, more importantly, dead quick.” But soon, the early optimism slinks away and a familiar feeling of dread and deep, deep loathing swaggers in. Our international football decline coincides with the proliferation of food programmes on TV Why does it have to be done so quickly? Every time I see these gonzo recipes in full flow I can’t stop thinking of the Benny Hill theme tune. And then I understand why it’s all speeded up. It’s to give the impression that it’s all quick and simple when, in reality, it’s as quick and simple as a week in jail. They tricked me into trying to make my own dough and then casually threw in something about paprika and apricots and this was at a time of the night when M&S is closed, for who has a jar of paprika or apricots just sitting about their shelves? And Nigella thinks we’ve all got food cupboards as large as libraries.The Glasgow Live website last week told us about seven new bars and restaurants we have to visit this month. “We’re fast becoming a food-obsessed city – and if the blogs and the pop-ups weren’t enough to prove it, then the fact that there’s a new restaurant opening on every corner just might clinch it,” it told us breathlessly.They’re right. In Finnieston, a previously unloved and neglected district just west of the city centre, some 40 new restaurants have opened in the last few years with the arrival of the Hydro concert venue. This is the city that, according to health chiefs, has a serious problem with obesity. Yet someone appears to have decided that there will be a restaurant for every man, woman and child in the city at the current rate of growth.Most are not fit for purpose, of course. By liberal use of words like trompette, saltimbocca along with encrusted, jus and drizzle, you are supposed to think that a menu item is good value for around £30 a pop. These are arranged in an inscrutable 4-5-1 formation on the plate with wide, wide spaces in between the food mounds. Sometimes, you don’t know whether to eat it or take a picture of it and sell it on eBay as a Jackson Pollock print.No newspaper’s food section is complete without a food and drink awards. And then there’ll be a blurb from VisitScotland about Scotland’s natural larder and how much it’s all worth to the economy and I get all that. And I also get that this is a smashing way for the food industry to persuade the ignorant middle classes to part with their cash in a pleasingly ostentatious way.What I don’t get, though, is that the quality of food in our hospitals has become a national scandal and that it took the brave efforts of my former colleague, the journalist Anne Johnstone, to expose it as such during a recent spell in hospital. What we serve our elderly and infirm, at a time when they are in most need of a decent meal, is processed slops prepared off-site by catering firms that have won the contract with the lowest possible tender.And what I don’t get either is that as Glasgow has made a fetish of its food it has also become the foodbank capital of Scotland, with the numbers using this facility rising significantly each year. But hey, did you know that the city is becoming a European go-to destination for gourmet burgers?