The fashion designer Marc Jacobs has defended himself against allegations of racial insensitivity after he used dreadlocks in his New York fashion show but cast mainly white models to wear them.Marc Jacobs closes New York fashion week with glorious mess of ideas While some criticised what they saw as a case of cultural appropriation, Jacobs said he saw only people, not their race. “[To] all who cry ‘cultural appropriation’ or whatever nonsense about any race or skin colour wearing their hair in any particular style or manner – funny how you don’t criticise women of colour for straightening their hair,” the designer said.He addressed the allegations in the comments attached to one of a series of images from his New York show on Thursday, which were posted on his Instagram account. “I respect and am inspired by people and how they look. I don’t see colour or race – I see people. I’m sorry to read that so many people are so narrow minded … Love is the answer. Appreciation of all and inspiration from anywhere is a beautiful thing. Think about it,” he wrote.Many people responded to the images of supermodels including Gigi and Bella Hadid, Karlie Kloss and Jourdan Dunn, by asking why Jacobs had decided not to cast more black models when he was showcasing a hairstyle they closely associated with black culture. And they attacked his comparison with the attitudes towards people from black and ethnic minority backgrounds straightening their hair. The pressure many feel to do so is in itself a form of racism, they argued.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Irina Shayk, Gigi Hadid and Karlie Kloss, models for the Marc Jacobs spring-summer 2017 show at New York fashion week. Photograph: Sam Deitch/BFA/Rex/ShutterstockOne Instagram user, whose handle was king.kourtt, wrote: “Saying ‘I don’t see colour’ is honestly just a way of avoiding the obvious issue at hand. Racism and culture appropriation so exist! By avoiding the problem you are the problem. Please remember that. By having these conversations, in a respectful manner of course, we can turn this situation into a positive learning opportunity.”Another, using the handle orangevg, asked: “If you don’t see colour then why are your models 95% white?”And a third, Golbone, wrote: “I really hope you take the time to research and understand the nuances that differentiate cultural ‘appreciation’ and ‘appropriation’. As an artist I know that the lines can blur as inspiration hits but the fact that you have been so resistant to hear the outcry from a large mass of your fans and followers is just sad and disappointing.”