Kesha, the pop star who first rose to fame with the loopily yodeled party hit Tik Tok in 2009, appeared to suffer a severe legal setback last Friday. A New York state judge denied the singer’s request to temporarily set aside her contract with Kemosabe records and allow her to record music with whomever she chose while her sexual abuse lawsuit against the label’s founder, superproducer Dr Luke, remained pending.Judge Shirley Kornreich’s ruling doesn’t necessarily bode well for Kesha’s rape and abuse claims against Luke – in fact, the judge expressed some concern that the claims were too vague and hinted that she might require Kesha to amend them. However, the public response to the ruling might just potentially help the singer achieve her lawsuit’s other goal – to end her contract with Kemosabe. The hashtag #freekesha became the focal point of an intense outcry on Friday, and over the weekend pop stars from Kelly Clarkson to Lady Gaga tweeted their support for the singer, culminating in a Monday morning announcement that Taylor Swift had donated $250,000 “to help with any of her financial needs during this trying time”. On Monday, Lena Dunham also leant her support to Kesha in her newsletter Lenny. Last Thursday, Kesha had been off the charts for more than a year and was suing a producer few people would recognize by sight, and her lawsuit went largely unnoticed outside industry trade publications or music blogs. Now, thanks to an adverse ruling, the increased publicity might embarrass Luke and Sony enough to speed up a settlement. Last week Kesha had a case. Now she has a cause.When the lawsuits began, Kesha, whose real name is Kesha Rose Sebert, and Luke (real name Lukasz Gottwald) had already been working together for nearly a decade. The producer, who made his name with Clarkson’s Since U Been Gone in 2003, signed Kesha in 2005, when she was just 18 years old. But her career languished until a memorable vocal appearance on Flo Rida’s 2008 hit Right Round. In 2009, her first single with Gottwald, Tik Tok, sold 610,000 digital downloads in its first week, setting a record for a female solo artist. It was the first of seven top 10 singles for Kesha – or Ke$ha, as she styled her name at the time – and appeared on her 2010 debut album, Animal, which went platinum.But Kesha’s career had largely stalled by October 2014, when she filed a civil suit against Gottwald in Los Angeles superior court alleging that he had “sexually, physically, verbally and emotionally abused” her. Contending that Kesha was just trying get out of her contract, Gottwald countersued for defamation (a claim that was eventually dismissed) and breach of contract. The case was moved to New York for procedural reasons.Kesha’s lawyer, Mark Geragos, must have known securing a preliminary injunction was a long shot – courts only step in before the trial to prevent “irreparable harm”, or an injury so great that no amount of financial damages can make things right later on. Even accepting Geragos’s argument that Kesha, by not recording any new music during a prolonged trial, might effectively end her career, any judge was likely to counter that money could compensate that unfortunate loss if she could win her court case. That is, after all, what US courts tend to believe.Even so, Judge Kornreich’s rationale was so quotably terse and cold-hearted: “My instinct is to do the commercially reasonable thing.” The online consensus among fans and supporters was that Kesha’s case was doomed, that she would be forced to record with a rapist or, at best, with Sony, the company that had stood behind him, that the court valued corporate interests over a woman’s safety.Then increasingly more prominent pop stars lined up to support Kesha – in addition to Clarkson, Gaga and Swift, Demi Lovato, Lorde, Ariana Grande and Fiona Apple commented on the matter. They’ve almost all been women, it’s worth noting. The only prominent voice speaking up for Gottwald was Gottwald himself, who emerged on Twitter on Monday afternoon, perhaps ill-advisedly, to dispute Kesha’s claims.Kesha’s case comes at a time when many women in the music industry are speaking up against the sort of abuse and harassment that has been routine business practice for years. In January, prominent music publicist Heathcliff Berru stepped down from the firm he founded after Amber Coffman, from the band the Dirty Projectors, accused him of sexual harassment in a series of tweets and a number of other women shared similar stories. At this stage, a full trial against Luke, even one in which he prevailed, could potentially put abusive and manipulative industry behaviour in the spotlight. Robin Thicke was only accused of copyright infringement, and remember how bad he looked in the Blurred Lines trial in 2014?The case’s newfound notoriety might give Kesha the leverage she lacked before, to settle with Sony and Luke on her terms. Perhaps she could negotiate an end to her contract and receive some financial compensation, though any such agreement would almost certainly contain a clause stating that Gottwald admitted no wrongdoing. Given the horrifying allegations in Kesha’s complaint, such a settlement might not feel like justice. Unfortunately, the “commercially reasonable” solution to a legal matter rarely does.