The news is hard to escape these days, with many people hearing about world events not just from news websites but also on social media platforms. But what impact is this having on children?It could be making them more anxious, according to the NSPCC’s Childline service. It reported an increase in the number of children seeking help for anxiety, with concern around world affairs such as the EU referendum and Syria conflict. It’s thought that the rise is down to a combination of personal and political issues, while the charity said others felt it was also partly due to disturbing events seen in the media and on social media.We asked parents and grandparents about their experience of this, and how they try to calm children down about world affairs.Young and anxious: do your children express fears over global events? Salley Vickers, from London: ‘My granddaughter loses sleep over terrorist attacks’I am a former psychoanalyst, working with people who suffered serious trauma, and am now a full-time novelist. My eldest grandchild, aged 11, is extremely anxious about political events, particularly potential terrorist attacks. She has become worried about travelling on the tube in London when she visits me. She is also worried about going into big shopping centres because of the threat of bombs and was deeply concerned after the Paris attacks. She is not at all frightened by any supposed Muslim threat – indeed, she is rather pro–Muslim having many Muslim peers, which is a good and reassuring aspect of modern children’s education, but she is insecure about being suddenly attacked in a place that she previously experienced as familiar and fun. She loves coming to London but feels being there is nowadays more dangerous. These concerns affect her sleep. She has confided she has periods of lying awake, worrying about terrorism and reassurances that it will not happen to her do not, and in my view cannot, dispel her concerns. My experience of working with trauma convinces me that anxiety needs to be addressed and not given a superficial bandage of comfort. My granddaughter doesn’t have a computer or iPod, or direct access to the web on her phone, but inevitably she sees the news with her parents and hears about what’s happening in school from other children who tend to big up scary events. Inevitably, she absorbs often false or exaggerated information from her peers who have access to social media while she cannot check out the truth what they say. In my view, the current state of the world needs to be discussed in schools as well as at home, and the spreading of rumour and gossip about scary events needs to be addressed more fully as a serious element in the school curriculum. Teachers need to rethink how children are introduced to political world events now there is so much greater access to them. More consideration needs to be given to the way social media, which can now feed into a bullying process, affects children. Bullying is hardly a novel phenomenon in schools but I don’t think we are really up to speed with the way political events can be deployed to terrify the less well informed or the more sensitive. There needs to be greater education on civic responsibility for everyone and I believe for the sake of a responsible future society it should start at a younger age. Children need to be taught to look at the news and public reactions critically and not take them at face value, in the way they were once taught to be critical of texts.Amet Akolawin, 28, from London: ‘My daughter gets more anxious about issues such as global warming’My daughter, who turns eight next week, watches the news when I do, so in the morning and evening. She also watches CBBC’s Newsround most days. We do talk about the headlines a lot, she takes an interest in what is going on around the world.She does worry about some of the stuff she sees, just yesterday at bedtime we spoke about the US election and the wall Donald Trump wishes to build between Mexico and America. It lead on to us chatting about the Berlin Wall and the Great Wall of China. My daughter is very inquisitive so talking about news is an simple way to give her some insight and pass on some of my knowledge.She doesn’t like watching clips of war-torn countries, but she will still listen to what the report is saying. She is quite sensitive so if there is a piece on Syria, for example, and I think the images are disturbing, her I will ask her if she would like to watch something else.To be honest she gets more anxiety from topics touched on in school, such as global warming and natural disasters. We go to visit her gran in Sardinia twice a year and much of the news recently has been about the earthquake there. She has become very fixated about this and I haven’t been able to reassure her about. Her uncle lives in Rome so it’s understandable that she would worry but it’s definitely made her afraid of something similar happening to her when she’s there.Jessica Eaton, 26, from Staffordshire: ‘My sons worry they will end up as refugees and no one will take care of them’My sons, who are five and eight, had a shocking realisation about three months ago that the war in Syria was real. They had been in the room with me and my husband when we were discussing the decision to launch airstrikes in Syria. We were watching footage about the civilian casualties and condemning the decision.  They have lots and lots of questions about war, politics and weapons. The boys went away to play for a while and must have got talking because they came back into the living room shortly afterwards very upset, saying: “Real people are dying in Syria, with real guns and bombs.” They had got confused between “real” and “pretend war” because of how war is depicted in video games and the fact that they have toy guns. My five-year-old son started to cry, saying: “We need to stop the shops and the government from selling things that try to make war and bombs and guns fun because it’s real mum. It’s happening in Syria.” It’s not the first time the news has made them upset: my boys worry a lot about war and nuclear weapons. They also worry that they might end up refugees too and no one will love them or want them. They have lots and lots of questions about war, politics and weapons. I don’t shield them from current affairs and I don’t lie to them, but instead spend time explaining stuff and suggesting empowering solutions, such as getting them to make posters or write a letter to the government. We have also registered to take in refugee children for fostering. While the media is busy playing everyone off against one another, children are absorbing dangerous messages from all sides. Our children spend more time using technology than any other generation and are very engaged in the media. I would prefer them to experience moral uncertainty and question everything they read rather than just swallowing information.Anonymous, 41, from London: ‘My eldest worries about animals dying and the destruction of the earth’My eldest, who is nine, has been very worried about climate change since he did a class project on habitats last year. He often talks about environmental issues, such as animals dying, trees disappearing and the general destruction of the earth. Both my children actually stopped eating meat last year and decided to become vegetarian. There’s a lot of focus on this issue and they cry when they think about animals being killed. They even made a How to Save Our Planet game together.We don’t allow our children to watch the news: the images are too graphic and the language is not suitable for under 10s. They occasionally hear the news on the radio, but we monitor their internet use, only letting them online for a limited time. They don’t have access to any social media despite their protests. But this is at home, outside in the world we can’t censor or guide them in what they hear or read. Social media is impossible to censor – thus we have a blanket ban. Geoff Jein, 36, from London: ‘Brexit was the worst news my son had ever heard’ My son is quite sensitive, but half-hearing news headlines and stories does make him anxious. He usually asks questions about stories four or five weeks after he has seen them, which makes me think he’s been worrying for all that time. A particular concern for him at the moment is Donald Trump getting elected. At the time of the primaries he picked up on him being a joke candidate and being a disaster for the world if elected. Some of his friends in schools do Donald Trump impressions that their parents taught them, so Trump is a bit of a funny character in school. But then he hears phrases like, “This man could have his finger on the nuclear button,” and gets worried. He takes things very literally so imagines there actually being a button.  The Brexit result really upset him. We were late to school that morning trying to calm him down.Geoff Jein We don’t let him watch the news but he hears the headlines as the 10-second trailer for the 6pm news usually comes on after programmes he likes watching. That’s worse, because he just hears the headlines and gets no other details and then worries. He is not on social media as he is too young and I don’t think any of his friends are either.The Brexit result really upset him. It got to the point where we were late to school that morning trying to calm him down. He thought that it was the worst news he had ever heard. He was so scared of leaving Europe. I take the blame for that really, as I didn’t see it coming. I gave him a very polemic view of why we should stay and no insight really into why some people wanted to leave. I am hoping to give him more information on news events now so he is less anxious. A few weeks ago, for example, I signed up to The Week Junior, which is a magazine that explains big news events to children.Anonymous, 45, from Kent: ‘We need to help children analyse media stories and sources of information’Since the age of seven my daughter has worried about global events but it’s not had a negative impact. She listens to the radio, reads The Week Junior and watches Newsround daily. If she wants to find out more, we research it together online. We discuss stories and sources of news regularly.After the Paris attacks, a number of children were pulled out of a trip to London. I discussed this with my daughter and explained that the government does all it can to keep citizens safe, and why you can’t let terrorists win. We thought about what we could do, so she wrote to David Cameron and got a response a few weeks later. It’s important to give children a way to try to positively effect change. We also need to help them to understand risk and analyse media stories, and sources of information.