A body has been found in the river Kent in Kendal following reports that an elderly man had fallen into the water, as Storm Desmond caused widespread serious flooding across the north-west of England.Police launched a search following a call at 10am on Sunday. Officers, along with an underwater search team, are now working to recover the body. It is the second fatality reported as a result of the storm, which has left at least 60,000 homes in the north of England without power. Many are also without clean water. In London, a 90-year-old man was believed to have been blown into the side of a moving bus by a gust of wind, near Finchley Central tube station.Storm Desmond: Cameron to visit flood-hit areas – live updates On Monday, the Environment Agency said it would review its response to floods after a major incident was declared in Cumbria – the worst-affected county – where fire services were forced to swap their fire engines for rescue boats. Hospitals in Lancaster and Carlisle were running on generator power after electricity substations were flooded, with army trucks used as ambulances in Lancaster to ferry patients to A&E.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Drone footage over Cumbria shows extent of Storm Desmond flood damageSir James Bevan, the agency’s chief executive, told the BBC’s Radio 4 Today programme that the events were unprecedented. “We had over a foot of rain within 24 hours in parts of Cumbria. That’s more than the monthly average and almost certainly a record, and when that happened the rivers rose to such a level that in some parts of Cumbria they overtopped our flood defences,” he said.Bevan defended levels of spending on flood defences and said existing defences had prevented thousands of homes being inundated and given those who were affected more time to prepare. “That doesn’t mean we don’t need to review what happened, we will, and we need to learn the lessons for the future,” he said.“You can never prevent all flooding. You can never protect everybody everywhere at all times against flooding. Nature’s nature, and from time to time it will throw things at us that will overwhelm the system.” The chancellor had protected a £2.3bn investment in defences over five to six years, he said. Responding to claims – including from the Liberal Democrat leader, Tim Farron, whose constituency was among those badly affected – that some schemes that were promised after previous floods had been shelved, Bevan said those dealing with a “particularly urgent need” were prioritised. “My team is completely committed to providing the maximum protection we can to communities up and down the country,” he added.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Storm Desmond: flooding leaves people and pets stranded His comments came after the leader of Cumbria county council, Stewart Young, called for an investigation into flood defences. “I will be talking to our local MPs later today and if the Environment Agency needs to revisit [the flood defences] then that’s what’s going to have to happen because we can’t continue to have events like this in Cumbria. We just won’t be able to cope,” he told Today.The government has faced criticism after multimillion pound defences built following catastrophic floods in 2005 failed to keep the flooding from people’s homes in Cumbria.Collapsed and dangerous bridges, washed-out main roads and deluged railways continued to turn lives upside down in the Lake District and beyond on Monday. Motorists were being asked not to travel on the A591 into Kendal due to flood water on the road. The main route linking the north, central and southern lakes collapsed into a beck north of Grasmere, effectively splitting Cumbria in two.All bridges in Kendal have reopened following fears they had been left unstable. Schools remained closed throughout the region, either because they were flooded, lost power, or staff and pupils could not get through.A water treatment works in Keswick remained out of action after the surrounding area was submerged but the company, United Utilities, confirmed “good progress” was being made to get the plant back up and running again in “difficult circumstances”.GraphicOne of two storage reservoirs in the centre of Keswick was down, with tankers being dispatched to pump drinking water directly into the pipe network.Burst water mains have also disrupted services in Borrowdale valley, Langwathby and Lancaster – with bottled water being provided to many.In Appleby, residents congregated at the bowling green in the town centre, where a line on the club house wall showed the flooding was 7ft deep at its worst. The club secretary, Keith Dewis, said: “People are devastated, but the community is working together to make sure we get back on our feet.”Along the main street, shopkeepers threw out damaged goods, which were taken away by local builders’ lorries. Trees, rubbish and discarded wellies were among the debris.In Carlisle, the army was sent to help emergency services as they spent a second day evacuating people from homes in streets where cars were almost entirely submerged.About 350 soldiers from 2nd Battalion Duke of Lancaster’s Regiment, based in Weeton barracks near Preston in Lancashire, arrived with two vehicles to help evacuate and warn residents. A Chinook helicopter was sent to move high-velocity pumping equipment needed at an electricity substation. Carlisle United football club players offered to help clean up the city when waters recede there. Cockermouth, which only got its commercial centre back together in 2013 following the 2009 floods, had spent £4.5m on new defences. The town clerk, Sheila Brown, said: “I couldn’t believe it when we found out at the weekend that the floods were going to hit again. It took us four years to get back to normal last time. “People are just assessing the damage and starting to clear up the mess.” Brown did not criticise the flood defences, saying it was the sheer volume of water that overwhelmed them. She was relieved that the town hall cellars were only ankle deep in water, instead of the 3ft of 2009. “It would have been worse without the defences. No defences could have stopped the floods entirely.”Following an emergency government meeting on Sunday, the environment secretary, Elizabeth Truss, said Cumbria rain gauge figures showed a record amount had fallen in the 24 hours between Friday and Saturday evenings.It measured 341mm in Honister, which is more than a month’s worth of rainfall in just one day and more than the UK has experienced in such a short amount of time.Flood warningsDavid Cameron tweeted: “The thoughts of the country are with the people in Cumbria and the NW hit by flooding. The Govt is doing everything it can to help them.”The prime minister chaired an emergency Cobra meeting on Monday to discuss the floods and to organise an effective response. He has announced he will visit the worst affected areas.David Cameron (@David_Cameron)I've just chaired a COBRA meeting on the floods. There'll be further announcements this morning - and later I will visit badly hit areas.December 7, 2015Energy firm Electricity North West had spent £7.9m on flood defences to protect against what it called “once-in-100-years floods” following the 2009 flooding. On Monday, the firm said it had restored power to all but 300 customers in Lancaster, Morecambe and the surrounding area.Mark Williamson, the operations director for Electricity North West, said: “Our engineers have done an incredible job and worked around the clock to restore supplies to almost 55,000 customers in Lancaster. All customers have been restored from our main substation, but 300 customers in the surrounding area are still without power due to localised flooding. “While we still have a significant amount of work to do to fully repair the substation we are still on site to repair the damage.”  