No one talks about memorial benches much. Private tributes in public spaces, they keep alive the names of loved ones known to few. This is the story of one such bench. Its plaque reads, “In memory of Archie Thomas, 1969-1985. He loved this place.”The place Archie loved is Port Isaac. The Cornish fishing village is nowadays also loved by many millions of television viewers thanks to the ITV drama Doc Martin. Archie’s family lived in Worcester, but spent every holiday in Port Isaac, where he became a popular figure.Three weeks before his 16th birthday, he died from an inoperable brain tumour that had afflicted him for most of his life. For the past 31 years, his memory has lingered on in Port Isaac in the shape of his bench. It has been sat on by many thousands of visitors, including my partner, Emily, who is Archie’s sister. Archie's father emailed to ask if Emily knew the bench had turned up in Devon. We were stunned In December last year, storms were forecast for the south-west. Port Isaac fishermen pulled their boats up to the highest point on the Platt, as the sloping harbour is known. Overnight, the tide surged in and snatched Archie’s bench, as well as another couple of benches and some untethered lobster pots. The next morning, a fisherman spotted benches bobbing in the choppy harbour on his computer webcam livefeed, but it was too rough to retrieve them. So that seemed to be that for Archie’s bench.On New Year’s Day, Kathryn Challis was walking her two dogs on Saunton Sands in Devon. On a little-visited part of the vast strand she found a bench, which had managed to clear a high sand bar and fetch up below the dunes. She immediately saw that it was a memorial bench, took photos, and enlisted a friend to move it to her home in nearby Braunton.“Please share,” she wrote on Facebook. “Seems to have been washed up and a family may want to know where this bench is. Far end of Saunton beach.”Her post was shared on a public group with 2,800 members called Any Place and on North Devon, where there were a further 133 shares. It did not occur to anyone that the bench might have come from further afield than north Devon. On 4 January, the North Devon Journal ran a story headlined “Memorial bench for teenager who died in 80s mysteriously washes up on Saunton beach”. It touched a nerve with Grace Brown, a Barnstaple resident whose baby daughter Honey nearly died of a congenital heart condition. She found a census record for a boy with Archie’s dates born in Worcester. Partly because her husband is from Worcestershire, she contacted the Worcester News, which ran a story on 6 January. People who remembered Archie contacted the newspaper to explain that Archie’s father, Michael Thomas, was for many years director of the Avoncroft Museum of Historic Buildings near Bromsgrove.The next morning, Michael, bemused, emailed us to ask whether Emily knew of Archie’s bench turning up in Devon. We Googled the story and were stunned to recognise the bench from Port Isaac. It looked remarkably undamaged but for one missing slat. Emily avoids Facebook, so I joined the Any Place and North Devon groups and, thanking everyone for their help, explained that Archie’s bench had drifted up from Port Isaac. The journey north, past Tintagel and Hartland Point, is at least 60 miles.In hindsight, Emily guessed that something was up with Archie. After Christmas, we drove to Shropshire for a break and stopped on the way at Archie’s grave in a Worcestershire church. Emily was dismayed to find the headstone mottled and the inscription barely legible. It includes lines from an Emily Brontë poem – “No coward soul is mine / No trembler in the world’s storm-troubled sphere.” On 29 December, these very words were movingly recited in the BBC’s Brontë drama To Walk Invisible. On the last day of the year, Archie’s bench beached at Saunton.“He’s sending a message,” said Emily when we heard. “He’s saying, ‘Don’t forget about me.’”Thanks to the incalculable gift enshrined in the odyssey of his bench, her brother has been very much remembered. In the past weeks we have pored over photographs, and read Archie’s diaries and letters to Emily. They all align with her memory of a funny, loving, spirited boy and with what a gnarled Port Isaac fisherman once described as “an old soul”.When Archie was diagnosed with the tumour at three, doctors predicted his imminent demise. He survived two death sentences. The second was described by his mother, Jane, in a powerful contribution to the book Caring for Dying Children and Their Families, published in 1994. At 10, Archie went into a month-long coma from which doctors predicted he would emerge blind and brain-damaged, in the unlikely event that he survived at all. One day at his bedside in Great Ormond Street hospital, she was singing to herself when he woke up and told her she was out of time and tune.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michael Thomas, Archie’s father, and Emily, Archie’s sister, on the restored bench in the harbour at Port Isaac in Cornwall.“Very wet day came out of hospital,” he wrote on 12 April 1979, his first diary entry that year. The brief scrawls in his Letts pocket diaries are typical of boys of that age, except that when he says there’s “nothing much to report”, it’s an indication that he’d made it through the day without a headache consigning him to bed. Over the years, there are countless entries that begin with “bad day”, as well as references to boys at school “being a pain” – teasing him for his fragility. But there are many highlights: trips to Port Isaac, helping at Avoncroft, discovering girls. He frequently draws a heart with an arrow through it. With one or two girls, much to Emily’s surprise 35 years on, he triumphantly canoodled.Jane – who died in 1999 – also wrote about Archie’s desire to own a 12-string guitar, which he was encouraged to save up for. Buying it, he reported, was “the happiest day of my life”. Once, he allowed himself to be recorded playing it. Emily dug out the tape. The first song is the Beatles’ For No One. Archie’s broken voice grapples with Paul McCartney’s awkward melody. It was bitterly difficult to hear this boy, who lived in the shadow of death, sing from beyond the grave of “a love that should have lasted years”.We left London, collected Michael from Tiverton Parkway, and headed to north Devon to meet the people who had been so generous in their support: Kathy Challis, Grace Brown, and Chris and Justeen Easton, whose daughter Ellie died two years ago of leukaemia at 16, and offered to transport the bench back to Port Isaac. At Kathy’s house, Emily and her father, Michael, were reunited with Archie’s bench, to which Kathy had tied flowers and a moving note to Archie. Kathy, a cheerful woman with a dramatic crown of dark ringlets who dedicated a memorial bench to her brother Michael eight years ago, took Emily to the spot where she had found the bench.That afternoon, Archie’s bench was reinstalled at the epicentre of the Platt. His sister and father sat on it and looked out at the familiar enfolding walls of the harbour from which the bench had made its escape. They clasped hands in joy and gratitude.The following day, Sunday 22 January, was the anniversary of Archie’s death. After Archie died, a family friend wrote a poem that now reads like a prophecy of the elemental sea voyage undertaken by his memorial bench:You could not climb our hillsOr ride our waves.But love made splendid compensation,Lifted you to dawdleWith the cleaving gulls;Breasted you beyondThe roaringest of seas.Love’s strength outreached imaginationAnd we who loved you soAre weaker now.Archie Thomas, who would have been 48 on Valentine’s Day, is still making waves.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The plaque to Archie on the memorial bench