Victoria Beckham unveiled her designs for Target in New York last night – it’s out on 9 April on her website, and the fact that prices stop at $70 (£61) is the big news. Even those in the squeezed middle can now have a bit of Beckham’s crisp, pulled-together airport/city street/selfie-with-photogenic-child style – the woman has been a walking advertisement for her own designs since she went from pop star to fashion designer in 2011.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Victoria Beckham for Target. Photograph: Victoria Beckham/TargetThe Target range is massive – with more than 150 pieces – and it’s also mass. This is VB appealing to all of her Instagram following, not just the ones that can afford to spend about £1,500 on a dress. There’s childrenswear and some of the pieces in the lookbook are worn by plus-size models, suggesting a something-for-everyone inclusivity that might not normally be associated with Brand Beckham, a woman who eats salmon everyday and probably isn’t too familiar with carbs. “I think it’s great [and] it’s a collection that women everywhere can enjoy,” she told Vogue. The subtext? Beckham is now established enough at the high end of fashion that producing clothes for those with more moderate budgets is a power move, à la designers such as JW Anderson and Preen, who currently have a collaboration with Debenhams.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Victoria Beckham for Target. Photograph: Victoria Beckham/TargetThis is a greatest hits of Beckham’s career and style. There are the cropped wide-legged trousers (£23), that will be familiar to those who saw her take her post-show bow for spring/summer 2014. There’s the scalloped detailing on dresses (£28) first spotted in her Victoria, Victoria Beckham line, which launched in 2012. And – for the real VB heads – the peplum shape (on a top for £23) that she first made so popular in the late noughties.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Victoria Beckham in 2007. Photograph: Jamie McCarthy/WireImageThe fashion savvy will like the pieces that she likes now – the two-piece with calla lilies (£23 for top, £23 for trousers), the poplin dress (£28), the tuxedo shirt (£23). All speak to Beckham in 2017: elegant lines, a bit drapey and nothing ever form-fitting. And obviously the bunny two-piece (£24) – complete with ears and tail – will be purchased by all parents with an eye on Instagram.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Victoria Beckham for Target. Photograph: Victoria Beckham/TargetIts a sharp contrast, of course, to the previous incarnations that Beckham has ceremonially shed over the years. Since the late 90s, she has moved from non-smiling Spice Girl through Wag style to taken-seriously, award-winning fashion designer to alpha mum.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Victoria Beckham, as seen this month. Photograph: Alo Ceballos/GC ImagesIt makes sense, then, to get the new generation involved. If Brooklyn’s busy snapping for Burberry and Cruz has a pop career in the works, Harper’s extra-curricular is helping mum with her designs, road-testing them and giving her approval to the dress with rabbits on the collar (£20).       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Victoria Beckham for Target. Photograph: Victoria Beckham/Target“I know what fabrics [children] like because I’ve been dressing them for a long, long time,” Beckham told Vogue. “Take that and apply what I’ve learned through being a mum.” A bit real, a bit savvy and actually adding up to nice clothes that people will want to wear? Sounds like the latest version of Brand Beckham is here.