When the markets have been selling the same produce for months, one way to keep mealtimes exciting is to seek inspiration from your kitchen cupboards. No matter how bare they may seem, there is often something hidden away at the back that will add va-va-voom to your cooking. Take today’s pie: use that old packet of dried mushrooms to turn a simple dish into something memorable. Guinea fowl may sound extravagant, but it is very tasty and no more expensive than a decent chicken; if you prefer, use leftover chicken: you’ll still get a terrific pie. And while you’re digging deep in those cupboards, pull out those bags of nuts, spices and dried fruit and use them to make a wobbly, feather-light yoghurt cake.Guinea fowl and wild mushroom rough-puff pieTo save time, buy all-butter puff pastry instead of making it. The wonderfully savoury filling, however, is simplicity itself. Serves six to eight.1.2kg guinea fowl (or 500g leftover roast chicken)1 tbsp olive oil45g dried wild mushrooms such as porcini (or 150g fresh ones: St George’s are just coming into season)50g butter150g lardons2 leeks, cut in half lengthways, washed and sliced on an angle2 tbsp plain flour2 bay leaves1 big sprig rosemary, picked and chopped75ml brandy (optional)200ml chicken stock100ml single creamFor the pastry250g plain flour250g butter, chilled and diced70ml cold water1 egg, beaten with a dash of milkHeat the oven to 200C/390F/gas mark 6. Rub the guinea fowl all over in oil, season and roast in an oven tray for 45 minutes, until just cooked. Once the bird is cool enough to touch, take it out of the pan and pour in 100ml boiling water, scraping up all that delicious roasting debris, then tip into a jug.Strip the meat from the bone in large chunks (keep the bones to make stock and, as a priceless cook’s perk, eat the crisp skin). Pour boiling water over the mushrooms and leave to soak.To make the pastry, sift the flour into a large bowl and use your fingertips to rub in the butter, leaving at least half the butter in pea-sized pieces. Add the water and briefly knead into a dry dough; if need be, add a few more tablespoons of water, to help to pull it together (it should still be a little crumbly and flaky). Wrap in cling-film and rest in the fridge for 30 minutes.Shape the dough into a rectangle and roll until it’s three times its original length. Fold the top third into the middle, then bring up the bottom third to meet it, so you have three layers. Give the dough a quarter-turn, then roll out again to three times its size and fold as before. Repeat this three more times, then refrigerate for 30 minutes.Meanwhile, melt the butter in a large, deep pan on a medium heat, then gently fry the lardons for a couple of minutes, until they begin to release their fat. Add the drained mushrooms, fry for a few more minutes then scoop out with a slotted spoon. Add the leeks to the pan and fry for five minutes, until softened, then add the flour, bay and rosemary. Pour in the stock and brandy, then simmer, stirring continuously, for two minutes. Stir in the cream, guinea fowl meat, lardons and mushrooms, take off the heat and season to taste. Tip into a large pie dish and leave to cool.Roll out the pastry to 5mm thick. Brush the rim of the pie dish with a little egg wash, then lay the pastry on top of the filling and press it down at the edges to seal. Crimp the edges with the back of a fork, then cut a small hole in the centre of the pastry, so the steam can escape. Brush with egg wash, then bake for 35-45 minutes, until the pastry is golden. Leave to rest and cool for 10 minutes before serving.Yoghurt cake with pistachio, lemon and cardamom      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Thomasina Miers’ yoghurt cake with pistachio, lemon and cardamom. Photograph: Louise Hagger for the Guardian. Food styling: Emily Kydd. Prop styling: Jennifer KayThis was inspired by Gather, Gill Meller’s wonderful new cookbook, and is full of light, Middle Eastern flavours. Serves six to eight.Unsalted butter, for greasing4 medium free-range eggs, separated85g caster sugar500ml plain Greek yoghurtZest of 1 lemon, plus extra to serve7 cardamom pods, seeds removed and ground in a mortar35g plain flour, sifted35g currants65g shelled pistachio nuts, lightly bashedIcing sugar, for dustingHeat the oven to 150C/300F/gas mark 2. Grease a 20cm spring-form cake tin and put it on a baking sheet.Using an electric whisk, whisk the egg yolks with 50g of the sugar until thick and pale. Gently fold through the yoghurt, lemon zest and cardamom, followed by the flour, currants and 40g of the pistachios.Clean and dry the whisk, then whisk the egg whites and remaining sugar to soft peaks. Gently fold this a third at a time into the yolk mix, then tip the batter into the prepared tin and bake for 45-50 minutes, until firm, risen and pale gold in colour. Leave the cake to cool (it will slightly sink back), then release from the tin and slide it from its base on to a board; use a metal palette knife to help you. Lightly dust the cake with icing sugar, then top with the remaining pistachios and zest. Serve at room temperature or cold; if you serve it warm, the icing sugar may melt.The weekend cook: Thomasina Miers’ parsnip risotto and blood orange cake recipes And for the rest of the week…The pie can be reheated all week, assuming it lasts that long; use any excess filling for jacket potatoes, turning that humble spud into a supper fit for a king. And use any leftover mushrooms in a gorgonzola, white wine and mushroom risotto. The cake makes a refreshing, light end to a party; simply cut it into cubes, dust with more icing sugar and serve with toothpicks and sugared flower petals.