A strange thing happened last weekend. The police at the Secret Garden Party music festival in Cambridgeshire stopped trying to arrest drug-takers and instead stood by supportively as The Loop, a drugs charity, tested party-goers’ illegal substances to ensure they were safe. Their tests revealed bags of “cocaine” to be ground anti-malarial drugs and highlighted a number of unusually high-strength ecstasy and MDMA tablets, which have been linked to avoidable overdose deaths elsewhere this year.Secret Garden Party pioneers drugs testing service for festivalgoers The reception was positive. Festival-goers gratefully disposed of batches of drugs shown to be dangerous and responded with interest to the information they were given on drug-use risks while testing was carried out. No one died – something that couldn’t be said of Perthshire’s T in the Park Festival two weeks earlier, the scene of two suspected drug poisoning deaths.The experiment goes against the grain of UK drug policy. For decades, our insular policy world has quickly silenced anyone who threatens to treat illegal drugs as a public health issue rather than criminal justice. The standard line is that drugs have health risks so citizens must be protected from them, a policy that recently saw Theresa May outlaw so-called “legal highs” through her 2016 Psychoactive Substances Act.That sounds fine in theory, but banning all recreational drugs because they can do some harm clashes with government policy in other areas. The usual principle is that responsible adults can take some risks to their own health, but government will intervene if individual actions start to cause significant harm to others. We let over-18s drink and smoke but discourage excess, while we have outlawed drink-driving and smoking inside a public place. We let people race horses but not without helmets or along crowded pavements.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  What are legal highs?The approach also fails to reduce drug use. Drug prices have fallen over recent years, a sure-fire sign that it is getting easier (not harder) to get hold of illegal substances. About 8% of the population used illicit drugs last year. This is a fall from the early 2000s peak of 12%, but one that is the result of fashion, not illegality. Drug use increased in the 1990s (when drugs were also illegal).Stringent drug laws rarely affect consumption. “Spice” is a harmful drug, linked to worrying increases in violence in our prisons before it was banned in 2016. Prisoners will still use it, however, because it is easily produced, cheap and undetectable in prison drug tests – unlike less harmful cannabis. After all, spice was banned from prison before the 2016 act. The harm done by illegal drugs in the UK, meanwhile, is considerable – both in spite of prohibition and because of it The harm done by illegal drugs in the UK, meanwhile, is considerable – both in spite of prohibition and because of it. Though it pales into insignificance against the 8,000-plus killed by alcohol, or the 80,000 or so killed by tobacco, drug-related deaths rose to 3,346 in 2014 compared to 2,747 in 2010. Addiction – a growing problem around cannabis as well as opiates – harms lives and GDP.About 15% of prison inmates in England and Wales are serving time for drug offences, and policing the illegal trade accounts for a huge amount of police time. And the trade undoubtedly enriches many who are comfortable with violence and coercion, both in the UK and in producer countries like Afghanistan and transfer regions, like the Caribbean, where owners of drug wealth can destabilise and corrupt vulnerable governments.May’s stance on drugs in her six years as home secretary followed that of her predecessors. While talking the talk of harm reduction, she has never shown a willingness to countenance a decriminalisation agenda, even in a modest form. Nick Clegg accused her of attempting to delete sentences in a government report that exposed the absence of any link between tough drug laws and levels of use. And she has seemingly ignored the fact that myriad countries – in Europe and North America, in particular – have admitted that blanket prohibition policies haven’t worked and are trying alternatives.The US is generously providing examples of what not to do. The poster-child and global promulgator of the “war on drugs”, its punitive stance on even small-scale dealing and possession fuelled a 500% increase in the US prison population, rapidly increasing policing costs, and the exclusion of thousands from treatment. But now, after many states introduced medical marijuana regimes, they provide lessons on how not to liberalise.Federal law continues to outlaw possession, sale, cultivation and transport of cannabis, but laws in Alaska, Colorado, the District of Colombia, Oregon, and Washington state have effectively legalised the drug. Regulation is not highly valued in American businesses and lax regimes are likely to drive up use. Cannabis-infused chocolate and soft drinks are sold with the colourful packaging that appeals to children; warnings and health information (admittedly limited and contested due to the lack of studies) are too sparse.The war on drugs is failing – decriminalisation is the only way forward | Amanda Feilding At a time when most countries tightly restrict marketing of alcohol and tobacco, Colorado regulations meekly allow television, radio, and internet advertising as long as no more then 30% of viewers are expected to be under 21. The harm of cannabis is much-debated, but actively promoting the drug’s use while the jury is still out on long-term effects seems negligent, particularly as cannabis is usually consumed alongside tobacco, a known killer.Reforms in Canada and continental Europe are more instructive. Festival drug-testing originated in Switzerland and the Netherlands. The provision of heroin on prescription is also a Swiss practice. The UK has quietly trialled this but tightly restricted it, despite good evidence that its rollout would support abstinence more effectively than methadone – and take millions of pounds from criminals. Canada is currently embarking – with due caution – on a much more careful approach to legalisation of cannabis. Justin Trudeau is introducing national legislation in spring 2017, with careful planning under way to ensure it produces a highly regulated environment that reduces criminal revenue but also makes it harder for children to access cannabis than currently.This global laboratory provides fertile ground for revisiting UK drugs policy. We are seeing evidence that both prohibition and laissez-faire legalisation are not the answer – but that there is a fertile middle ground. May showed no sign of occupying that ground as home secretary. But we are seeing that countries do not collapse when drugs policies change. We must all take note.