Dietland by Sarai Walker review – gleefully censorious of 'rape culture' Sarai Walker is fat. This is the first thing I notice as Skype connects and the author of Dietland flickers on to my computer screen. Sounds awful, doesn’t it? Calling someone fat – admitting that someone’s size is part of how you instinctively, well, size them up. That one syllable is so loaded with judgment that people tend to tiptoe around it, reaching for euphemisms: plump, plus-size, curvy, large.But why do we treat fat like a four-letter-word when, ultimately, it’s just a descriptor? Dietland, Walker’s debut novel, seizes on this question, overturning conventional narratives about fat in an attempt to reclaim the word. In doing so, Walker explains, Dietland also seeks to “blow up certain types of narratives about women”. Its protagonist is the 300lb (21 stone) Plum, who lives a lonely life in Brooklyn and is constantly dieting.By the rules of chick-lit, 29-year-old Plum should lose weight, feel great, and find love. Instead, the novel detonates into a Fight Club-inspired revenge fantasy. Plum finds herself unwittingly entangled with Jennifer, a feminist terrorist organisation intent on aggressively inverting the male gaze. Plum’s self-hatred transforms into self-acceptance. She goes from rejecting her fatness to embracing it. I take issue with the idea of fat as an outer representation of inner trauma Dietland is fiction, but it’s tempting to read parts of it as autobiography and see, in Plum’s journey, a reflection of Walker’s own. Indeed, Walker, now based in New Mexico, notes that Dietland has effectively been treated as a memoir by the press, which “has got me more press coverage – the media doesn’t like fiction”. While Walker stresses that “Plum’s not me and I don’t see her as a surrogate for me”, she concedes there are certain overlaps. Like Plum, Walker hasn’t always embraced “fat”. It wasn’t a word she used before she moved to London to do a PhD in 2005 and began attending fat studies conferences. Walker’s exposure to fat activism had a major impact on both Dietland and her own life.The novel approaches fat through a feminist lens. However, Walker notes that feminism “doesn’t always have a great history of dealing with fat in a positive way”. A number of fat activists, for example, take issue with the book Fat Is a Feminist Issue, which suggests fat is the result of psychological damage. “One of the things I push back against in Dietland,” she says, “is the idea that fat is an outer representation of some kind of inner trauma.” Dietland attempts to strip fat of its connotations, arguing that maybe “fat is just … fat”. Rather than being a negative, Walker posits, fat can be a “neutral or positive thing”.Fat can be healthy, so don’t tell me you’re dieting for health reasons | Bethany Rutter The idea that fat can be positive goes against everything the western world trains us to believe, particularly in relation to women. The weight-loss industry is worth around $148bn (£100bn): a value that reflects the role fat plays in our evaluation of ourselves and each other. The more we weigh, the less we’re worth. We are reminded of this daily by beauty ideals propagated by the media and advertising. It worms its way into our unconscious. Studies show overweight people are perceived as less productive and are less likely to get jobs. And then there are the medical issues: we’re constantly told fat isn’t just unattractive – it’s unhealthy.Which leads me to a confession: much as I enjoyed Dietland, I found it hard, initially, to get past the idea that fat is fundamentally unhealthy. I’m not the only one. Weight-based approaches to health mean prejudice against the fat is practically socially sanctioned. People who are normally open-minded struggle to question their assumptions about fat being harmful.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A 1968 slimming programme using electric currents. Photograph: John Knoote/ANL/Rex/ShutterstockWalker calls this Fat Derangement Syndrome. “People with Fat Derangement Syndrome become outraged when you criticise the fat-is-bad or obesity-epidemic rhetoric,” she says. “They derail any conversation about fat acceptance.” She jokingly likens the syndrome to werewolfism: liberals mutating into raging anti-fat-crusaders. “Even people who are sceptical of the media and corporations, when it comes to fat, they don’t take time to question at all. They accept whatever they hear in the media.” She sighs. “As fat activists, we often just feel so alone. We have no community except ourselves because everyone else is so hostile.”Walker has come up against a fair amount of hostility while promoting Dietland. During a live radio interview in Australia, the novelist Will Self, also a guest on the show, went full werewolf on her. “He basically derailed my whole interview,” Walker says, with an upset sort of laugh. He didn’t just trot out the usual “fat is unhealthy” stuff, but helpfully mansplained that humans are evolutionarily programmed to find fat people ugly. Self was being so abrasive, Walker recalls, that after the interview another guest asked if she was OK.The run-in wasn’t the first time Walker faced overt abuse from a Brit. She lived in the UK for seven years, on and off, and says: “London was the most fat-shaming place I’ve been in my entire life. It was on a scale like nothing I’ve ever experienced.” In the US, Walker says, fatphobia would manifest itself in subtle ways: she’d find herself excluded from things. In London, however, strangers would say horrible things to her face. “I’ve lived in New York, Paris, Boston and the western US – and that just doesn’t happen.” The people who helped create body anxiety are now apparently providing a solution. It's a bunch of BS One reason, Walker suggests, is that “women’s bodies were on display in London like I’ve never seen. In the phonebooths with those pictures of naked women, and on Page 3, and in those tabloid newspapers with half-naked women on the cover. It was like the whole city was a red-light district.” She contrasts this to her native US, where “we have fashion magazines with scantily clad women but you don’t see those kind of porny images in public as much. I felt part of the reason I got harassed in London was because there were messages everywhere that women’s bodies are public property.”Walker channelled her London experience into a chapter of Dietland in which Jennifer forces British tabloids to feature naked men on their covers. “London was being renovated,” writes the author, “and the wallpaper covering every surface of the city was no longer decorated with women.”My wedding was perfect – and I was fat as hell the whole time Dietland comes at a time when society is undergoing – albeit less drastically – an analogous renovation. Advertising has moved away from “perfect” Photoshopped bodies and is making a point of showing more diversity. Even Weight Watchers has shifted away from an emphasis on shedding pounds to instilling pride about your “body right now”. Advertising has pivoted from shame to empowerment. However, Walker notes, this pivot is just another way for companies to make money. “They helped create body anxiety and now apparently they’re providing a solution. So it’s just a bunch of BS really.”It may be BS, but it’s encouraging BS. As I chat to Walker it strikes me that, for all the furore about fat, it’s rare for fat people to be allowed a voice in the matter. Normally, she points out, the fat are just headless bodies, waddling down the street on your TV screens, while a dour voiceover lectures you about obesity. All that might be about to change, however: Dietland has been optioned as a TV series by Marti Noxon, a writer for Mad Men. So we may soon have a 21-stone heroine on primetime TV. Which might force us into accepting that sometimes fat is just fat. And that is a pretty big deal.• Dietland by Sarai Walker is published by Atlantic. Buy it for £7.19 at bookshop.theguardian.com