I don’t possess many mementos of my maternal grandmother, who died in 1985. No family silver, no heirlooms, barely a scrap of jewellery. But what I do have, on a yellowing sheet of A4 paper, is a recipe in her distinctive cursive handwriting for something she called “mock mousse”, involving marshmallows, black coffee and whipped cream – a popular combination, it seems, way back when.Have I ever made this? No. Will I ever make it? Unlikely. But I hold on to this piece of paper for dear life, because just reading it brings back vivid childhood memories – I can taste that mousse now.Nostalgia and disappointment Food nostalgia is universal – although the flavours of our memories depend on when and where we were born. It’s not just gummy coffee desserts that make me misty-eyed. Newfangled convenience foods of the 1970s and 80s feature large in my roll-call of reminiscence: crème caramel from a packet – even a glimpse of the packaging, courtesy of Google, gives me an intense Proustian rush; Angel Delight; Ice Magic; and other not-so-sweet things such as boil in the bag fish and sauce (more delicious than it sounds, at least in my memories), and Shippam’s sardine and tomato paste – which I still crave from time to time, despite having a kitchen cupboard stuffed full of tins of fancy Connétable numbers.Hence the recent uproar about a chocolate-covered toffee. The news that Nestlé, which makes Quality Street, is replacing the Toffee Deluxe with a new honeycomb-infused chocolate was greeted with mass social media meltdown, fuelled by fury, outrage, shouts of “Christmas is cancelled”, and, inevitably, a petition to rescind the decision. Perhaps a week in which headlines were dominated by the Great British Bake Off’s move to Channel 4 and the Brangelina split was not the best time to mess with the public’s confectionery.Not being able to access the flavours of your childhood any more feels like a great blow; a door slammed in your face. I’m still upset that Bird’s no longer makes Ice Magic. Similar products may be available but I have it on good authority that they are “just not the same”. As LP Hartley definitely didn’t say, the past is a foreign country, they eat different things there And when it comes to Quality Street, memories are not just about the individual sweets, they hinge on the whole experience. As a child, we had a box every Christmas. I think it was the law. I have an early memory of my grandmother and mother counting each type of chocolate to see if they were evenly distributed. (Yes, that’s what passed for entertainment in the 1980s.) If you’re interested, there were more Toffee Fingers than anything else. Invariably, I still buy Quality Street at Christmas, impelled by some misplaced sense of tradition, even though it’s all wrong – the tin is a different shape, and is, in fact, no longer even a tin.Food nostalgia, as well as being intensely personal, is big business. London’s Cereal Killer Café, a harmless if alarmingly hipster concept, was so divisive that it was targeted by anti-gentrification activists last year. And Belfast’s now-defunct Simply Crispy, a pop-up crisp sandwich shop, proved so popular that it sold out within two hours of opening.And then there’s Heston Blumenthal, who seems determined that diners bring their inner children to his world-renowned Fat Duck, as well as their bulging wallets. The tasting menu (£255 per person) not only plies diners with cereal-inspired courses and sashimi eaten while listening to seaside sounds through headphones, but personalises the experience, with staff asking guests making a booking for information about a memorable childhood moment they can recreate.Crunch time for Quality Street fans as Toffee Deluxe is substituted As LP Hartley definitely didn’t say, the past is a foreign country, they eat different things there. Childhood, for many, was a simpler time, a time when, hopefully, we were safe and secure; cared for by others. It’s not hard to understand why foods from our past have a powerful effect on us. Research has shown that such foods make us feel less alone, with one 2015 study finding that participants consumed and enjoyed comfort food more when they felt socially isolated.If only there was an easy way to simplify our lives again – to return to a period when time stretched out luxuriously for hours ahead, when there were no jobs to go to, no admin to be done, no Netflix keeping us up all night and no 24-hour news cycle making our phones beep and frying our synapses. But until someone invents a time machine, we’ll have to make do with the brief moments of respite our childhood foods offer us. Sorry, Toffee Deluxe lovers, you’re out of luck.