It’s been 30 years since The Queen is Dead came out. As to whether it’s the best Smiths album is a moot point, but it does contain some of the band’s best imagery, including Stephen Wright’s gatefold image of the group standing outside the Salford Lads Club taken two years earlier and which set a blueprint, arguably, for the band’s legacy as style icons.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Oversized knits and quiff: Morrissey, with his bicycle. Photograph: Kerstin Rodgers/RedfernsAcid-washed jeans, mismatched jackets, oversized shirts – all in all, a funereal image that lends itself to the fashion photography of Mario Sorrenti, clothes designed to be shot in black and white. Morrissey would probably disagree with this – he was pretty scathing on the subject of fashion. “The Smiths were the worst-dressed group in the history of cloth,” he once said. “I can’t imagine how that would inspire anybody.” Yet his look, here and in general – NHS specs, mis-buttoned Evans shirts, oversized jumpers and flower chains – summed up the band’s sentiment: immediate, emotional, and multilayered. His hair alone (a nod to optimism?) has been copied by footballer Joey Barton, Justin Bieber and James Franco. Whatever Morrissey claimed, on some level the styling was considered and, in turn, hugely influential.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Drake at the Chiltern Firehouse last year. Photograph: REX Shutterstock Morrissey’s mid-80s look has been argued as a sort of precursor to normcore, the accursed anti-fashion trend still adopted by new bands like The Garden and Liss, but in reality, he was more prototypical sad-boy. The neologism is owned by Swedish rapper Yung Lean, but also realised by artists such as Drake, James Blake and Zayn Malik. Put simply, it’s a millennial-friendly term for men who are at one with their feelings. Part subculture, part genre, it taps into a desire to express emotion, and to do so with authenticity and sincerity. And in fashion as well as music, it’s staking its own claim, with Morrissey’s studied muddle of knitwear and ill-fitting blouses wardrobe semaphore for this movement.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Zayn Malik earlier this year in LA. Photograph: MediaPunch/REX/ShutterstockSad-boy style varies. There’s Drake in pink ‘woes’ OVO; Zayn Malik’s post-breakup bleached hair; James Blake with his soft fringe and cardigan. In Blake’s case, his look is more post-vintage in the sense that the clothes don’t look old even if they probably are. With Drake, the pink hoodies are not so much feminised as indicative of a man who owns his feelings. But the styling – especially Malik’s – feels reactive, emotionally, and on a broader level reactive to the current climate of disenfranchised youth.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   James Blake at Field Day festival this year. Photograph: Gus Stewart/RedfernsThat The Smiths’ album came out during Margaret Thatcher’s second term in government, was probably no accident. Britain had a New Right. The Haig pit in Cumbria had closed and Freddie Starr may have eaten a hamster. There was, then, plenty to be sad about. In economic terms, the cheapness and availability of secondhand clothing identified Morrissey’s economic-class status and made him relatable. There was also something flamboyant, even funny in that postmodern ironic way, in what Morrissey wore (at the time, the sad expression and flowers seemed almost cartoonish, as if he was playing dress-up) but equally, when Morrissey said he bought his shirts from Evans, a cheap plus-size womenswear shop, he was actively rejecting the mainstream and with it, capitalist culture.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Morrissey with Johnny Marr in 1984. Photograph: Sipa Press / Rex FeaturesThat his boots were inspired by Marlon Brando’s, his vintage Levi’s always “rolled up exactly the right height” and his hair shaped into an optimistic quiff, inspired by Stuart Sutcliffe’s, suggests the styling was far from accidental, even if it was teed up to be. He was making a statement and it’s a sentiment that has stayed with us 30 years later.