What was the name of Pratchett's first published short story, published when he was a teenager?   Business Rivals Business Rivals is about a man named Crucible, who finds the Devil in his flat.    Troll Bridge    The Secret Book of the Dead    The Sea and Little Fishes How many Discworld novels made it into the top 100 of the BBC's Big Read survey in 2003?   One    Four    Six    Nine What is the first Discworld novel?   The Colour of Magic    Mort    The Light Fantastic    Feet of Clay Which children's book was Good Omens initially intended to be a parody of?   Just William by Richmal Crompton    Dennis the Menace    James and the Giant Peach by Roald Dahl    Molesworth by Geoffrey Willans and Ronald Searle What year was Sir Terry Pratchett knighted for services to literature?   2007    2009    2010    2014 In The Long Earth series, parallel earths can be reached using a device called what?   Plodder    Stepper    Strider    Treader Eric is a parody of which classic tale?   The Frog Prince    Cinderella    Faust    Jack and the Beanstalk Which classic rock album cover does the cover for Soul Music resemble?   Let There Be Rock by AC/DC    Bat Out of Hell by Meatloaf    Mothership by Led Zeppelin    Ride the Lightening by Metallica What is the name of Anathema Device's ancestor, who passed on the book of prophecy to her in Good Omens?   Granny Weatherwax    Dangerous Jock    Nanny Ogg    Agnes Nutter Which real life figure is Leonard of Quirm a parody of?   Leonard Cohen    Leonardo da Vinci    Leonard Nimoy    Leonardo Dicaprio How many books features the witch Tiffany Aching as the main character?   One    Three    Four    Five Who was the Unseen University's first and only known female graduate?   Eskarina Smith    Magrat Garlick    Granny Weatherwax    Lucy Tockley A collection of travel stories called 'What I Did On My Holiday' became a revolutionary text in which Discworld book?   Guards! Guards!    Equal Rites    The Light Fantastic    Interesting Times What does the motto NVNC ID VIDES, NVNC NE VIDES, carved above the doors of Unseen University, mean?   Now you see it, now you don't?    Now or never.    Faithful though unfortunate.    Now thus, now thus. What is EcksEcksEcksEcks?   A creature    A person    A place EcksEcksEcksEcks is no way based on Australia. No way mate.    An awful cough, sorry For which children's book did Terry Pratchett win the Carnegie medal?   Truckers    The Carpet People    The Wee Free Men    The Amazing Maurice and his Educated Rodents Pick the book that isn't part of the Death Trilogy.   Mort    Reaper Man    Soul Music    I Shall Wear Midnight The opening scene of Wyrd Sisters is a parody of the opening scene of which Shakespeare play?   Macbeth    Hamlet    Richard III    The Tempest What is the name of the final Discworld novel?   The Wee Free Men    Mort    The Shepherd's Crown    Reaper Man Finally, who said: 'I DON'T KNOW ABOUT YOU, BUT I COULD MURDER A CURRY'?   Death OF COURSE IT WAS. Pratchett might have said it too though.    Terry Pratchett You got…As Death might say: BLIMEY.You clearly know your Discworld from your Long Earth. So close – try again?You clearly know your Discworld from your Long Earth. So close – try again?You clearly know your Discworld from your Long Earth. So close – try again?You clearly know your Discworld from your Long Earth. So close – try again?“Knowing things is magical, if other people don't know them.” You did quite well – try again?“Knowing things is magical, if other people don't know them.” You did quite well – try again?“Knowing things is magical, if other people don't know them.” You did quite well – try again?“Knowing things is magical, if other people don't know them.” You did quite well – try again?“Knowing things is magical, if other people don't know them.” You did quite well – try again?“He's out of his depth on a wet pavement.” Try again.“He's out of his depth on a wet pavement.” Try again.“He's out of his depth on a wet pavement.” Try again.“He's out of his depth on a wet pavement.” Try again.“He's out of his depth on a wet pavement.” Try again.“He's out of his depth on a wet pavement.” Try again.As Pratchett wrote in Mort: “It would seem that you have no useful skill or talent whatsoever. Have you thought of going into teaching?”As Pratchett wrote in Mort: “It would seem that you have no useful skill or talent whatsoever. Have you thought of going into teaching?”As Pratchett wrote in Mort: “It would seem that you have no useful skill or talent whatsoever. Have you thought of going into teaching?”As Pratchett wrote in Mort: “It would seem that you have no useful skill or talent whatsoever. Have you thought of going into teaching?”As Pratchett wrote in Mort: “It would seem that you have no useful skill or talent whatsoever. Have you thought of going into teaching?”Challenge your friendsSubmit answers