In this new week-long series, anonymous writers share the most painful part of their marriage: the moment they knew their relationship was overIt was early 2008, and I had a Samsung flip phone – not the kind you would ever use as an instrument of distraction, but one that certainly could register the 10-plus calls my husband had made during the few minutes I was in the store late one night.I knew when I got back to the car that I had left my Gmail open on the computer we shared.Seven things I wish I'd known before my divorce: an optimistic guide to the future When I turned down our street toward the house we’d purchased just two months prior, I could see him waiting on the front porch. I hoped he had not woken our son, who had just turned two.What was he going to say?“I know,” he told me. “I read your emails. I know.”How much had he read?Had he read where I had discussed, in depth with friends, how dissatisfied I was with him? How overwhelmed I was as a parent in my early 20s? How I had responded when my high school boyfriend had reached out and how I – who had refused any deep conversation with my husband for far too long – had shared my regrets and fears and hopes with him? How I had found his MySpace account open and read all the messages between him and his college girlfriend, and how he’d missed her?He had read it all. Knew it all.“OK,” I said. “I guess we need to.”•••That email account had been a diary of sorts, recounting how scared I was to find out I was pregnant, how I had initially been excited to be engaged and then, later, how I dreaded the wedding. How much I missed my previous life. We had been over before we started because the reasons we had married – an unplanned pregnancy, a belief in following an “order of things” – were precisely the wrong reasons to marry.I felt sick. We had hurt each other so much, and the saddest part was that most of it was unintentional. We were young and trying to do the right thing by everyone around us.We were done, we agreed. We were over.He would take the car, the house.I would take the extremely heavy furniture.We would share the child.Of course, it couldn’t be that cut and dried. One day, in an argument over how to divide up our lives, my soon-to-be-ex hissed that were it not for our son he’d be happy to never see me again.The moment my marriage was over: 'I had no idea I was living with a drug dealer' “Tough,” I told him. “We are going to be best friends when this is all over.”Eight years later, we definitely aren’t – but what we are is friendly enough to peacefully coexist in the Venn diagram in which we both reside.When my ex remarried, I made sure I was there to pick our son up at the end of their wedding and when my then boyfriend, now fiance proposed a few weeks ago I shared the news with my ex, along with an open invitation to come to the festivities next year.We live five miles apart and are each other’s go-to dog sitters. I buy him magnets for the refrigerator collection at his house and he brings me concert T-shirts when he and his second wife see bands we all like.Sometimes I wonder if we would still be unhappy together if he hadn’t read my email. I don’t know the answer to that, but I do know that for two people who married for all the wrong reasons, we’ve managed to do divorce the right way.Oddly enough, our communication vehicle of choice these days is email. It works best for us due to my short temper and his needling ways, and while we still have our fair share of conversations written entirely in caps lock, we have moved from resentful, awkward adults to two people who share a much-loved child.Maybe this is the way it was meant to be all along.