A winter coat, a pair of jeans, a shirt for work, boots and a pair of socks – that’s the clothes shopping done for at least the next 30 years, maybe even for life.Buying clothes that last a lifetime is a concept that is fast gaining popularity. As brands launch “lifetime guarantees”, there are now shirts on sale that will apparently last until 2046, and ever-lasting pairs of pants.Buy any of these garments and if a zip sticks or a waist band snaps, the company will repair or replace the item for free, even if you have owned it for years – though some of the brands claim their goods are so durable that you probably won’t need to.According to the Valuing our Clothes report by Wrap, the waste reduction charity, extending the average life of items by three months would lead to a 5%10% reduction in each of the UK’s carbon, water and waste footprints that can be attributed to clothing. So these new products represent a tick for anyone wanting sustainable fashion. However, the concept is also likely to appeal to anyone who is sick of spending money on knitwear that bobbles or shoes that fall apart. And that will be many of you, says Tara Button, founder of Buy me Once, a website which promotes durable products. “Consumers are understandably frustrated. Manufacturing methods are being downgraded while prices are staying high and many items simply don’t last anymore,” she says. Feet first  A boot from the Dr Martens For Life collectionButton’s team is currently researching the quality of shoes and finding that many popular brands fall apart very quickly. She points to Dr Marten’s as a good example of better practice. It offers a warranty for life on its Dr Marten’s For Life range – as long as your shoes or boots haven’t been broken on purpose (Dr Martens says it will be able to tell) it will repair them, and if it can’t you will get a replacement pair. To activate the guarantee you must register your footwear within 60 days of purchase.“The price as well as the warranty compares well to other boots, which can easily cost as much and not offer a guarantee,” says Button. The range includes boots priced at £165 and shoes at £145 – not cheap, but less than twice the price of many of the firm’s standard range.  Darn Tough women’s trekking sockSimilarly, with Darn Tough you pay more than for a standard pair of socks, but you get a guarantee for life. If you manage to wear out a pair you can send them back (they’re made in the US but you only need post them to an address in the UK) and get them replaced. The socks can be bought from outdoor clothing stores, and online at places such as Trekitt and Openair. Prices start at about £12.80 for the lightest, short socks, but expect to pay around £20 for a pair of chunky winter ones.Underwear to outerwearUnderwear doesn’t perhaps spring to mind as a lifetime purchase, but Sloggi pants has a form to fill in on its website if you have any problems. You can send them back and get them replaced with an equivalent pair. As guarantees go, it’s not bad for items that start from £7.   Patagonia women’s M10 jacketCoats are always a bit of an investment purchase, so the cost of buying one with a guarantee may not seem so steep an outlay. Patagonia sells jackets with a guarantee that says it will repair or replace them for 100 years after the date of purchase, with starting prices of £130. It trains in-store staff to carry out small repairs and pops up at festivals to run repair clinics.The rest of your outfitSwedish brand Nudie Jeans, meanwhile, has two dedicated repair shops in London where you can get your denims mended for free until they wear out. If you are not nearby, you can get hold of a repair kit. It doesn’t mean you get a pair for life, but it should make a pair last a lot longer. Cost-wise they compare well to other designer jeans, rather than to the high street’s cheapest denim. A pair will set you back at least £89 and some styles cost as much as £270.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Grim Tim Dry Bamboo Selvage-Swedish brand Nudie JeansAnother brand aiming for a similar market is Tom Cridland – it’s offering a “30-year sweatshirt” in a range of colours. They initially cost £65 and the company offers free mending if anything goes wrong during that three decades. “We’ve sold over 10,000 sweatshirts and only one has needed a repair so far,” says the company’s eponymous founder. “We’re making them built to last.”It offers the same promise on a range of jackets starting at £199 and T-shirts costing £35. However, one-off purchases do require discipline and careful consideration before you commit. Dr Rebecca Collins, lecturer in human geography at Chester University, who researches consumption, says: “I’ve come to the conclusion that the quest for novel really drives consumers. If we want longer-lasting fashion we need an element of novelty within the garment. It has to be easily changeable and capable of being worn in different ways.”AlternativesBuy well A price tag used to be a sign of quality, but that’s no longer the case. However, there are some ways to check for the quality of the materials. For example, are the buttons tightly sewn on and do the button holes have tight stitching? When you gently pull the seams of a garment you can see if it’s been closely sewn (lots of stitches are a sign that it’s well made) or if there are gaps in the stitching (cheaply made). And always check the washing care instructions on the label. Natural fibres such as cotton and silk are likely to stand up better to repeat washes, as long as you follow the care advice.Fix them There are sewing workshops and repair cafes (where skilled people will help you fix items) in many places, from Manchester’s Stitched Up to Bristol’s Repair Café, and there tons of videos online which can help you carry out your own alterations and re-shaping.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stitched Up in Chorlton, Manchester.Borrowing clothes Some clothes are only ever worn occasionally. How many times do you wear a cocktail dress, for example? Or a morning suit for a wedding? So it may not be cost-effective to ever own these items. There are plenty of dress exchange and suit hire options on the high streets, while online sites such as Chic-by-choice and Girlmeetsdress offer women’s items for hire, and men’s suits can be found at places like Slaters.On Instagram, the hashtag #ShareWear allows you to search for shareable items. If you’re first to post a comment on an item you can wear the clothes for a week before passing them on to the next person. It’s an initiative by VisitSweden and the Swedish Institute, a Swedish tourism agency. There are occasionally items by Swedish designers on the hashtag, which you wear for free for a week. Another way to extend your wardrobe is to borrow clothes from a Library of Things. There’s one in London, one in Frome, and another is being started in Cardiff. For a small donation you can borrow anything on the shelves.