Where to stayThe Varsity hotel is in the perfect location, both for the start of scenic runs, and for exploring the town more generally. It has large and wonderfully light rooms, with a gym and spa next door free for guests to train and chill out respectively. Despite nestling in the historic heart of the university town, it’s actually a new build, and has chintzy faux-historic decor for clean lines, airy spaces and comfort. The rooms range in style and size, depending on budget, but even the smaller rooms are large enough to swing a foam roller. The higher floors have spectacular views – I stayed in a corner room on the fifth floor, with two walls of floor-to-ceiling windows, and actually uttered a rather stunned “wow!” when I walked in. My room also had a good-sized bath (useful for post-run aches), a fantastically comfortable bed, and a proper selection of teas and coffees to make yourself a cuppa. Oh, and an iPod docking station, fluffy towels and fast wifi. Really, it’s so amazing I’m surprised I ever got out for a run at all. Where to runAs Cambridge is flat as a pancake, the question is simply one of finding the nicest, most scenic and least tourist-clogged routes. From the Varsity hotel you can cross Jesus Green and Midsummer Common and head along the river – I turned back to make it a gentle 5k but there were many more miles to be explored. Cambridge city council have also handily produced a range of downloadable leaflets with suggested running routes, ranging from four to 16 miles.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Glassworks gym Photograph: Paul Winch-FurnessWhere to trainThose staying in the Varsity hotel have free access to the Glassworks Gym next door. On the bottom floor are treatment rooms for massages, while a jacuzzi with a truly spectacular view onto the Backs lets you people-watch without feeling self-conscious; the window is “one way” so no one can see in at you, but you can watch them picking their noses. Again, it’s a wonder I ever got out ...The gym itself is very well equipped – it’s a smallish space but with everything you could need, from cardio machines, treadmills to free weights and TRX trainers. You can also book a one-off personal training session (£45 for an hour) during your stay. I spent a painful but instructive hour with James, a man who clearly knows his stuff, as he works with some “proper” athletes in the town. How was your weekend running? Where to eatBreakfast at the Varsity is likely to please the distance runner, as the buffet includes a variety of different breads and a toaster, so you can help yourself to your carb-hungry heart is content. You have to go out of the hotel and round the corner to the River bar, but that should take all of about 45 seconds. There’s also a new bar and restaurant, Six, opening soon up on the hotel’s entire sixth floor, just below their stunning rooftop garden. It’s fortunate this was not yet open when I stayed, given that it promises to have a dedicated ice cream menu. I’d have moved in.Races to enterThe Cambridge half marathon is a big and popular route – the flat course means there’s huge potential for a PB. Next year’s race will take place in February, but the actual date is yet to be confirmed. There is also, of course, a Cambridge parkrun. The UK leg of the global Wings for Life World Run is also taking place in Cambridge this year, on 8 May. Accomodation was provided by the The Varsity. Prices start at £155. For bookings 01223 30 60 30thevarsityhotel.co.uk