Colson Whitehead, you’d think, would be used to accolades by now. Before Oprah picked his new novel, The Underground Railroad, as her next book club selection, he’d amassed quite a few of the laurels available to American writers. A Guggenheim, a Whiting award, and one of those MacArthur “genius” fellowships. His books had been shortlisted for many prizes, including a Pulitzer. But Oprah’s touch still has its own particular kind of publicity magic, and so Whitehead finds himself answering the question: where was he when he heard the news?“I had a reading at Duke, and my plane touched down. I’m always checking my phone as soon as I hear the landing gear go down. There’s [a call from] my agent,” he tells me over the phone. “I called her back and she said: ‘Oprah.’ I said: ‘Shut the front door,’ because I didn’t want to curse. She said: ‘Oprah book club.’ I said: ‘Motherfucker.’ People were looking at me because this was on the airplane.”Had Whitehead been able to explain to his fellow plane passengers, they would no doubt have understood. But there is some cloak and dagger involved in being blessed by the One Who Gives Away Cars.“They said it’s a secret and you can’t tell anybody, and if you do, we’ll destroy you,” Whitehead jokes. “So four months of lying to people. It was a huge relief two Tuesdays ago when I finally was able to tell people. Two days before, I told my wife. Two days before my daughter was at sleep-away camp, and had no access to electronics, so she had one phone call. I was like: ‘I’ll tell you Tuesday. Since you have no way of telling anybody, I’ll let it out of the bag.’”The book appeared in American bookstores the day of the announcement, even though it had previously been scheduled for publication in the US on 13 September. (The book will be available in the UK on 6 November.) American literary Twitter began joking that Whitehead had pulled a Beyoncé, dropping a surprise book. Not unlike Lemonade, The Underground Railroad sold like hot cakes, hitting No 4 on the New York Times hardcover fiction bestseller list. But for Whitehead, things obviously didn’t happen that quickly. In fact, The Underground Railroad was 16 years in the making.The book follows Cora, a young slave in Georgia who escapes her brutal life on a plantation with the help of that fabled element of the slave era, the underground railroad. In Whitehead’s retelling – though not in real life – the railroad is an actual subterranean train. One or two cars roar through a system of tunnels, with stations buried underneath the houses of sympathetic southern whites. Cora travels through South Carolina and Tennessee before ending up in Indiana. In the New Yorker this week, Kathryn Schulz praised Whitehead’s handling of the subject: “It is a clever choice, reminding us that a metaphor never got anyone to freedom.”Some reviewers have remarked that the Underground Railroad’s spareness is a departure for Whitehead, a novelist known for his comedic touch. He has had a varied career, moving from the slightly fantastic in his 1999 debut novel The Intuitionist, to the solid realistic account of 2009’s Sag Harbor, to the zombie-apocalypse plot of 2011’s Zone One. When I asked him about it, he said: “Growing up watching Kubrick, it seems like a normal thing. You do your dark comedy, you do your war movie, you do your science fiction movie, and it’s all accessing different parts of your personality.”The idea that the Underground Railroad was an actual train had been the idea that inspired this latest book. “I was thinking about how when you’re a kid, when you first hear about the underground railroad, you visualize a literal subway. Just because the image is so evocative,” Whitehead told me. “I thought, what if it actually was a subway?” His imagining of the book unfolded from there, informed considerably, he said, by Jonathan Swift’s Gulliver’s Travels. He imagined the slaves traveling from state to state, and that the story would “reboot” every once in awhile, showing some different aspect of America.But initially Whitehead wasn’t sure he was up to executing the idea. He wasn’t sure he had become the sort of writer that could pull it off, and besides, the prospect of researching slavery, “a gruesome topic”, was not appealing. So years went by, and he wrote other novels while the idea continued to germinate. Finally he had begun to work on a book about a journalist in New York, and the voice seemed too close to the voice Whitehead had used in his nonfiction book about poker, The Noble Hustle: Poker, Beef Jerky, and Death. “It seemed like repeating myself, and also if I put off this slavery idea for so long, why not try to confront why I was trying to avoid it?”The wait was apparently worth it. Over time, Whitehead tells me, he dropped his onetime plan to have this be something of a fantastical story. Originally he thought, for example, that the Underground Railroad would transport the characters to different eras; instead, in the end, the action of the book all takes place in 1850. He spent a lot of time rereading slave narratives, the famous published ones like those of Frederick Douglass and Harriet Jacobs, as well as narratives collected in the 1930s by the Works Progress Administration, which collected oral history from then-still-living former slaves. “They gave me enough material, in terms of slang and the kind of food they ate, in order to get going,” Whitehead said. “So it was four months before I felt ready to go.”One of the most remarkable things about the Underground Railroad is Cora’s level-headedness in the face of the suffering and tragedy she both encounters and experiences herself. Another sort of writer, one more sentimental than Whitehead, might have been tempted to ratchet up more open emotionalism. Instead, his book does not make a big show about Cora’s stoicism, and Whitehead came to believe it followed logically from the horror of slavery. “I think when all you’ve known is atrocity, how do you rank the latest atrocity with the rest?” he told me.Whitehead had in mind several grand schematic novels while composing the book. In high school, he took a class called Fabulism, and there he read Gabriel Garcia Marquez’s One Hundred Years of Solitude and John Bunyan’s Pilgrim’s Progress, and Kafka. These books, alongside Gulliver’s Travels, informed the structure of Cora’s journey. “Any kind of adventure story where someone goes from allegorical episode to allegorical episode, and escapes at the last minute, that sort of outlandish series of events actually works for an escaped slave. You are just going from slim refuge to slim refuge trying to make it out.” He has a point, and the critics, who have all given The Underground Railroad rave reviews, seem to agree that Whitehead fastened on exactly the right metaphor. This, many people are saying, may be the novel that wins Whitehead the Pulitzer.This all comes at a time where there has been so much talk about diversity in publishing and in pop culture. I ask what Whitehead thinks of the debate. “I think progress is slow. Year by year I think we have more and different African American writers making their debuts. I was allowed to write about race using an elevator metaphor because of Toni Morrison and David Bradley and Ralph Ellison. Hopefully me being weird allows someone who’s 16 and wanting to write inspires them to have their own weird take on the world, and they can see the different kinds of African American voices being published.“If you go to a big publishing house, editorial aside, it’s completely white,” he adds. “Stories written about black people or featuring black protagonists have become big or get a lot of attention, and then three years later it’s back to the same draft. Not to be negative, but I always see it as a ... You want to point to The Underground Railroad and [Yaa Gyasi’s] Homegoing as the year black people broke through, [but] three years from now, you’re not going to have that same story.”