Born in Sevier County, Tennessee, in 1946, Dolly Parton grew up in a musical family and performed from an early age. Initially successful as a writer for hire, she established herself as a country superstar in the mid-70s, with hits such as Jolene (1973), and crossed over into the pop mainstream in the early 80s. Branching into acting, she made her film debut in 9 to 5 (1980), the title track becoming one of her most famous hits. A highly prolific songwriter, Parton has released 43 solo albums and scored 25 number ones on the Billboard Country charts. Her latest album, Pure and Simple, is out now on Sony.I started making up songs when I was four or five. The first one I can remember was about a little corncob doll that my mother made for me and which I named Tiny Tasseltop. Mamma was fascinated by how I used to rhyme words, so she used to write them down and tell them to people. She kept shoeboxes full of songs that I wrote when I was little. I’ll never forget hearing my voice on the radio for the first time. It left a sting and a burn and an imprint on my soul The music came from my mother’s side of the family. My grandpa was a Pentecostal preacher and all his kids – my mom’s brothers and sisters – sang and played instruments. They were big into gospel. I realised very early on that I could do more with it, that I could make it a business and a career.One of my mother’s brothers, Bill Owens, saw my potential. He used to take me around Tennessee and back and forth to Nashville trying to get a deal. We would sleep in his old beat-up car. When I was 12, we went down to Lake Charles, Louisiana, and recorded a song we’d written together called Puppy Love. That was my first-ever release.I’ll never forget hearing my voice on the radio for the first time. It left a sting and a burn and an imprint on my soul. I was sitting up on the sink in the kitchen at home – I was probably scrubbing on something – when Puppy Love came on the local station. The radio was across the room and I almost killed myself, slipping in the mop water, trying to turn the volume up. I thought, oh wow, I’ve done it, I’m doing it. It was such a big thrill.I’ve probably written 5,000 songs in my career. I’ve had hundreds and hundreds copyrighted and recorded, but there are so many more – boxes and trunks full of them – that I’ll go back and rework. I’ll think: that was a great title, or a great melody, but the song is not quite there yet.Before sitting down to write, I often fast for a couple of days. This gets me into a clean, spiritual frame of mind and opens me up to inspiration. I bring along a whole suitcase of titles and half-written songs, and I take all my different instruments. If I’m writing mountain songs I like to play mountain instruments, whether it’s the dulcimer, the autoharp or the banjo, but mainly I write with the guitar.Where have country music's women gone? My writing time is very private and spiritual: I hardly ever write with anybody else. Every once in a while I’ll write with Mac Davis, who is one of our greater songwriters – we write quick and good together – but for the most part I do it on my own. I wish I had time to write with more people, but my time is so limited, it takes all I’ve got just to do what I need to do.I write a lot from my own experience, my own thoughts and feelings. I also write for friends and family. When they’re going through things, whether it’s a new baby, a marriage, a divorce, I feel their joy and their hurt. That’s one of the great things about being a songwriter: you can express not only your own thoughts and feelings but also those of the people you’re close to, or people in general.My husband [Carl Dean] and I were married 50 years in May and I thought, well, this is a good year to write about love in its many colours. So my new album, Pure and Simple, is full of love songs. I wrote about all the things we’d been through over the years, and all the things I know about love. There are songs about cheating love, romantic love, friends-with-benefits love, but most of the songs are about true love.I’ve never been someone who gets writer’s block. Writing is just as easy for me now as it was 50 years ago. Of course there are times that I can write better, have greater focus, but there’s never a time when I can’t write anything at all.Five Dolly favourites   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest James Rowe: Love Lifted MeLove Lifted Me James Rowe (1912)Growing up most of the songs Momma sang for us were faith-based and I always cling to them as, like this hymn, they remind me so much of my childhood and great memories of my family.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Rita Coolidge: Higher and HigherHigher and Higher Rita Coolidge (1977)I think this is a great philosophy as love can indeed lift you higher and higher. It certainly has lifted me.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Village People: YMCAYMCA The Village People (1978)This song always makes me laugh and gives me cardio.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Katrina and the Waves: Walking on SunshineWalking on Sunshine Katrina and the Waves (1983)I have opened my tours with this song, I just love it. It’s a very happy tune.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Taylor Swift: Shake it OffShake it Off Taylor Swift (2014)I love the lyrics of this song and I think it’s a great outlook on life.