Most of us inherit our rhubarb from the previous gardener or the gardener before that, or even the one before that. A healthy rhubarb plant can live for a very long time. But what is this unknown variety? There’s a good chance it’s ‘Victoria’, the most popular. It has thick cardinal-red stems with green flecking, and the flesh is also tinged red. It will start producing from late April through to May.Early varieties can get going in January; another popular one is ‘Timperley Early’, which was bred to be forced under a rhubarb pot. If you have this, you’re probably already measuring up the first pick. Give it a little protection (which is what the forcing pot is doing) and you’ll find it races away. Every now and then you see ‘Champagne’, too; this has the most beautiful delicate pink stems and again is very early and bred for forcing.There are many more to choose from. The Victorians were crazy for rhubarb, with a variety for almost every day of the season. We think of rhubarb as something tart, like green apples; but a 19th-century cook would have known types that tasted of cherry, greengages or strawberries. Some had stems so tender you barely had to show them heat; others were so firm they could keep their shape in jams.You can still get hold of some of these, such as ‘Holstein Blood Red’, with its gory stems (available from Otter Farm), or ‘Early Albert’, known for its hardiness (from Chris Bowers & Sons). Brandy Carr Nurseries in Yorkshire has quite a list of rare and heritage varieties.If you want to try before you buy, visit the walled garden at the National Trust’s Clumber Park, in Worksop, Nottinghamshire, home to about 130 varieties. The delightful tea shop uses much of the garden’s produce, so a trip in late spring should result in some delicious treats. RHS Harlow Carr in north Yorkshire has a similarly big collection, not a million miles away from the Rhubarb Triangle.Alys Fowler: how to give your seedlings the best start in life A rhubarb plant can reach two metres wide if happy and will grow on almost any type of soil as long as the drainage is good. It’s a myth that rhubarb can grow in deep shade: it’s a woodland edge plant and some sun makes for the tastiest stems. Never harvest all of these at once: leave four or five from the very beginning, otherwise you will exhaust the plant.A healthy plant will produce fleshy stems that are not hollow, split, too thin or too numerous. Too many thin stems are a sign that the plant needs dividing. Older specimens get congested and this results in crowded growth and flowering. Ideally, plants should be divided every five years.The best time to lift and divide a crown is when it is dormant in late autumn. Be patient in the first year after dividing or planting new stock: a year of no picking will mean there’s much more in the future.