 2.40pm GMT A Thames lock keeper whose job is due go as part of the temporarily delayed cuts at the Environment Agency has personally rescued two people in the last week, according to the GMB union. In a press release aimed at maintaining pressure on the government to permanently cancel the job losses, the GMB said:  Richard Hawkins, the resident Lock & Weir Keeper at Abingdon employed by the Environment Agency, raced into action at 7.30am on Saturday morning 15 February to rescue a boater who had fallen into the Thames. Richard then steered the 57’ narrow boat, which had come adrift from its mooring by the ferocity of the current, across the river, where he was able to secure the vessel safely. Only six days earlier Richard had rescued a young boy who had slipped into the flood waters and was in danger of being swept into the weir.  2.27pm GMT SummaryHere’s a summary of the latest developments:• River levels on the Thames and Severn are likely to rise again over the next few days, but the worst of the flooding appears to be over, according to the Environment Agency. Sixteen severe flood warnings remain in place for a second week in Somerset and the Thames Valley. • David Cameron described flooding as a “tragedy” as he pledged to visit every flood-hit area of the country. On a visit to Upton-upon-Severn he also confirmed some of the details of a £10m package to aid flood-hit businesses.• New damage to the tide-battered seawall at Dawlish looks set to delay the reopening of the line until April, Network Rail has warned. Last week the Transport Secretary Patrick McLoughlin announced that repair to the line would be completed by 18 March. But the latest damage means this deadline is to be extended by up to two weeks.• The Met Office has issued another amber “be prepared” warning for rain in south-west England on Monday with up to 40mm expected in some already saturated areas. But the outlook for the rest of week is for more settled weather. • Flood-stricken communities, including those visited previously by Cameron in the Somerset Levels and Yalding in Kent, have been left without planned defences following government funding cuts, the Guardian can reveal. Undelivered defences, totalling many millions of pounds, also include schemes on the stretch of Devon coast at Dawlish where the mainline railway fell into the sea and near the nuclear power station at Hinkley Point in Somerset.• Chris Huhne, the former energy and climate change secretary, claims George Osborne, was the driving force behind the cuts in flood defence spending in 2010. The chancellor was then forced to increase flood defence spending last June because insurance companies were threatening to withdraw cover for 350,000 homes at risk, Huhne writes in article in the Guardian.• Soldiers have complete 600m-long aqua dam, known as the Chertsey Sausage, along the Thames but some residents of the Surrey town question its effectiveness. For those who live on the other side of it, and whose homes back on to the river, it is too little, too late. They feel their properties, which have already been flooded, are being abandoned to the waters and fear they could find themselves trapped. 2.22pm GMT   A woman pulls children in a dinghy near the Thames in Hurley. Photograph: Oli Scarff/Getty Images 1.51pm GMT Flooding outlookRiver levels on the Thames and Severn are likely to rise again over the next few days, according to the Environment Agency.Katharine Evans, the agency’s flood risk manager, suggested that the worst of the floods appeared to be over for now, but that exceptionally high levels of ground water could pose problems for months to come. Speaking on BBC Radio 4’s World at One programme, she said:  We’ve got further rainfall forecast, but it looks as if some of that is going to fall away from the places where we are having problems at the moment. We will certainly see rainfall push up river levels, particularly on the Thames and the Severn over the next two/three days, but we are not expecting them to be any worse than the ones we’ve seen previously.Evans said high levels of ground water were causing significant problems in the south-west and south-east of England.  Kent, Hampshire, Wiltshire and Dorset are all seeing problems of really high ground water which is either coming out of dry springs and turning those into rivers and coming out of the ground in various spots, or it is actually flowing into major rivers and causing those to rise. It is very widespread ... Ground water is one we are going to have to keep an eye on for weeks if not months.   Flood water surrounds houses near Walton on Thames. Photograph: Peter Macdiarmid/Getty Images 1.26pm GMT Liam Dutton, the weather forecaster for Channel 4 News, explains why river levels still rise after the rain has stopped falling. In the case of the River Thames, it can take around two to three days for rain water in the upper part of the river to flow downstream to the lower part of the river.So, in effect, the rising of the rivers during today and tomorrow will be as a result of the rain that fell a few days ago. 1.23pm GMT   David Cameron talks with residents during a visit to Upton-upon-Severn. Photograph: Ben Birchall/PA 1.12pm GMT DawlishDevon and Cornwall police have released aerial images of the new damage to the seawall at Dawlish. They show that the row of rubble filled shipping containers used as makeshift barrier were battered by Friday’s storm but still in place. The latest damage is likely to set back the completion of the repair of main south-west railway line until April. NPAS Exeter (@NPAS_Exeter)Damage on the main railway line. pic.twitter.com/Rg8jUqlsAkFebruary 16, 2014 12.05pm GMT Cameron visits Upton-upon-SevernDavid Cameron continues to try give the impression of being on top of the crisis by visiting more areas hit by flooding and has promised more trips to come.Upton-upon-Severn is the latest stop on the prime minister’s flood tour.David Cameron (@David_Cameron)A great example of the military helping with floods: running a shuttle service on flooded roads in Upton-upon-Severn. pic.twitter.com/L6PjaHQ421February 17, 2014Cameron said he will aim to visit every flood-hit area around the country “to try and learn lessons”. And he defended the government’s handling of the crisis and hit back at criticism that he was visiting places such as Upton-upon-Severn only after the damage had already been done. PA quoted him saying:  I’ll try to get to every part of the country that’s been affected so that we can learn all the lessons. But here in Worcestershire we can recognise that the flood investment that went in after 2007 has made a real difference, with hundreds of properties protected.”  10.48am GMT Amber warning for rainThe Met Office has issued another amber “be prepared” warning for rain in south-west England with up to 40mm expected in some already saturated areas.It said:  Another spell of rain is expected across southwest England during Monday. This is not expected to be as prolonged or as heavy as in recent days but given the saturated ground, the public should be aware that this still has the potential either to lead to localised flooding or to exacerbate existing issues. Rainfall totals of 10 to 15 mm seem likely quite widely and perhaps 30 to 40 mm locally, mainly over high ground in the west of the warning area.  Met Office amber warning for rain in south-west England on Monday. Photograph: /Met Office 10.38am GMT ChertseyThe reasons for installing the 600m Chertsey Sausage are clearer from the air than street level. Thames police have release this aerial view of the Aqua Dam alongside the flooded river banks. Surrey Police (@SurreyPolice)An aerial view of the 600m long Aqua Dam (aka the @ChertseySausage) from the @NPASRedhill helicopter. #SurreyFloods pic.twitter.com/ugFHYBLAZBFebruary 17, 2014Updated at 10.39am GMT 10.07am GMT Pressure on Owen PatersonGreenpeace is calling for environment secretary Owen Paterson to be sacked over the decision to put flood defences on hold. In the letter to David Cameron, Greenpeace chief executive John Sauven, said: “We believe very strongly that Owen Paterson is failing the responsibilities of his office and we need to see someone put in charge who believes in an evidence-led approach to climate change.” The letter complained about the decision to cut flood defence budgets.To highlight the issue Greenpeace moored a rowing boat with a spitting image style Owen Paterson puppet marooned on the Thames directly outside the Houses of Parliament.Jimmy Aldridge, Greenpeace climate campaigner added: “Owen Paterson, has slashed the budget of the Environment Agency against the advice of his own experts, and delayed projects that could have protected more homes, businesses and farmland from flooding. Paterson’s not just incompetent, he’s irresponsible and dangerous.”   Greenpeace moored a rowing boat with a spitting image style Owen Paterson puppet marooned on the Thames outside the Houses of Parliament. Photograph: /GreenpeaceUpdated at 10.39am GMT 9.47am GMT PM's fund for flood-hit businessesThe prime minister has announced the details of a package of measures to help flood-hit businesses. It includes a £10m hardship fund, a relaxation of the penalties for the late filing of accounts, and a helpline. Announcing the move Cameron said: “The government is taking action across the board to deal with the clear-up and help hard-working people affected by the floods.” Updated at 10.40am GMT 9.11am GMT DawlishNew damage to the tide-battered seawall at Dawlish looks set to delay the reopening of the line until April, Network Rail has warned. On Friday another exceptionally high tide disturbed some of the rubble-filled shipping containers set up as a makeshift tidal barrier where an 80m stretch propping up the main south-west rail line was washed away earlier this month. Last week the Transport Secretary Patrick McLoughlin announced that repair to the line would be completed by 18 March. But the latest damage means this deadline is to be extended by up to two weeks, according to BBC News citing a Network Rail spokesman. Lee Edworthy, regional manager for First Great Western, confirmed the damage in a Twitter update. Lee Edworthy (@FgwLee)Further damage was caused to the sea wall at @FGW Dawlish In Friday's storm, including some of the containers. pic.twitter.com/5KUZlTTsBNFebruary 16, 2014Devon and Cornwall police said there would be an inspection of the damage this morning. Updated at 9.19am GMT 8.38am GMT Thames barrierThe Thames barrier is due to close for the 20th consecutive time today on its current record breaking run of tidal closures. John Curtin, the Environment Agency’s head of incident management, points out that this winter’s closures alone make up a quarter of total closures in the barrier’s 32 year history.John Curtin (@johncurtinEA)#ThamesBarrier stats from @AlanBarrierEA - last night was 19th consecutive closure - 41st this winter - out of only 156 since built 1982!February 17, 2014Update: The Environment Agency later corrected this figure by saying there had been 165 closures since 1982, but that still means that almost a quarter of the total closures have occurred this winter. During Sunday’s closure there was 2.5m difference between the tidal water being held back and the swollen flow from upstream. Alan (@AlanBarrierEA)The difference either side of the #ThamesBarrier was around 2.5m at its peak. This won't restrict upstream flow. pic.twitter.com/ZG54hTpz0mFebruary 16, 2014Updated at 2.17pm GMT 8.23am GMT Guardian cartoonist Steve Bell imagines troops being air dropped onto the Somerset Levels after they turned up last week in Wraysbury without the right footwear.   Steve Bell's If ... on the floods: don't worry, Cameron's in charge Photograph: Steve Bell 8.12am GMT Miliband  Labour party leader Ed Miliband on a visit to flood-hit Wraysbury last week. Photograph: Peter Macdiarmid/Getty ImagesLabour leader Ed Miliband has echoed his comments to the Observer about how the floods demonstrate what will happen if we don’t tackle climate change. In an interview on ITV’s Daybreak programme, he said: “What I fear is if we don’t act this is just a grim foretaste of what’s going to come.” The Observer reported Miliband saying: “The science is clear. The public know there is a problem. But, because of political division in Westminster, we are sleepwalking into a national security crisis on climate change.”He also called for “decent people” in the Tory party and the Liberal Democrats to join the cause, “to come forward and say, we can’t have this ambivalence any more because it will be disastrous for this country”.Miliband’s remarks prompted climate change minister Greg Barker to claim that Labour’s front bench has failed to ask a single question about climate change in the last two years.Greg Barker (@GregBarkerMP)@Ed_Miliband Glad you raise #ClimateChange but why hasn't Labour front bench asked a single Q on it in House of Commons for past two years??February 17, 2014 7.50am GMT SummaryWelcome to our continuing live coverage of the floods crisis. The worst of the winter storms may have passed, but more rain is forecast and 16 severe flood warnings remain in place for second week.Here’s a summary of the latest developments:• Sixteen severe flood warnings remain in place for a second week in Somerset and the Thames Valley as still more rain is forecast. The Environment Agency said  the overall picture is starting to improve as river levels stabilise, but added that there is still a risk to people and property remain.• David Cameron has described flooding as a “tragedy” as he prepared to visit more of the worst affected areas. He also confirmed some of the details of a £10m package to aid flood-hit businesses.• Flood-stricken communities, including those visited previously by Cameron in the Somerset Levels and Yalding in Kent, have been left without planned defences following government funding cuts, the Guardian can reveal. Undelivered defences, totalling many millions of pounds, also include schemes on the stretch of Devon coast at Dawlish where the mainline railway fell into the sea and near the nuclear power station at Hinkley Point in Somerset.• Chris Huhne, the former energy and climate change secretary, claims George Osborne, was the driving force behind the cuts in flood defence spending in 2010. The chancellor was then forced to increase flood defence spending last June because insurance companies were threatening to withdraw cover for 350,000 homes at risk, Huhne writes in article in the Guardian. • An extra 5,000 troops are on standby to support communities hit by flooding. Defence secretary Philip Hammond said 3,000 troops were currently deployed, and another 5,000 were available. He admitted the armed forces could have been despatched earlier to help.• The under-fire chairman of the Environment Agency, Chris Smith, welcomed the prime minister’s pledge of unlimited funds for flood relief but called for the same approach to be to extended to flood defences. “I hope he will apply the same principle to the longer-term issues about improving our flood defences. One of the things that has worried me is whether flood defence is seen by the Treasury as a high enough priority,” he told the Guardian. • The widow of a man killed when a freak wave hit a cruise ship in the Channel has criticised the “badly maintained” vessel. James Swinstead, 85, a father of two from Colchester, Essex, died after water rushed on board the British cruise ship Marco Polo as it was battered by waves during Friday’s severe storms. His widow, Helen, said: “I think the shipping company should give some sort of compensation. The ship was badly maintained. Four windows blew.”• Soldiers have complete 600m-long aqua dam, known as the Chertsey Sausage, along the Thames but some residents of the Surrey town question its effectiveness. For those who live on the other side of it, and whose homes back on to the river, it is too little, too late. They feel their properties, which have already been flooded, are being abandoned to the waters and fear they could find themselves trapped.  A police officer walks past the newly installed aqua dam in Chertsey. Photograph: NEIL HALL/ReutersUpdated at 2.16pm GMT