Margaret Atwood writes graphic novel superhero, 'part cat, part bird' Look! Up in the sky! Is it a bird? Is it a plane? Actually, it looks more like some sort of half-bird, half-man with oversized feathery wings and a rather feline sensuality. It must be Angel Catbird, the unashamedly does-what-it-says-on-the-tin superhero created by Booker prize-winner Margaret Atwood. Her first ever graphic novel became an instant bestseller when it was published by Dark Horse last month. So why is a “nice literary old lady who should be resting in her rocking chair being dignified and iconic”, as Atwood refers to herself in her introduction, attempting to break into the comics industry in her mid-70s? She blames the Sunday newspaper comics she eagerly devoured growing up in the 1940s, from sweet-natured hillbilly Li’l Abner to “surrealist masterpieces” like Dick Tracy.Although Angel Catbird is a spirited homage to that gee-whiz golden age of comics, with characters melodramatically soliloquising in endless thought balloons before throwing themselves headlong into danger, there is also a semi-political underpinning. Atwood is an enthusiastic supporter of a Nature Canada campaign to try to persuade cat owners to stop their roaming pets killing wild birds. So the misadventures of mild-mannered computer geek Strig Feleedus – transformed into Angel Catbird after an industrial accident involving a super-splice mutagen – are studded with conservation-minded “cat facts”. That sounds like an awful lot to pack in, but Atwood’s breathless love for both the form and subject matter, combined with expressive art by fellow Canadian Johnnie Christmas (who beautifully captures Strig’s evolving feline body language), make Angel Catbird a rather jolly adventure. A second volume – exploring the home life of Strig’s vampiric mutant ally Count Catula – is due in early 2017.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Doom Patrol #1 by Gerard Way and Nick Derington. Photograph: DC ComicsDan Martin on Gerard Way With both Spider-Man and Star Wars on its side, Marvel tends to dominate the comics charts. But arch-rival DC has staged a spirited comeback with its back-to-basics Rebirth relaunch, beating Marvel in sales for the first time in three years. DC’s next ploy is Young Animal, a so-called “pop-up” imprint curated by former My Chemical Romance frontman Gerard Way. That might sound akin to David Beckham absent-mindedly creating a fashion line for H&M, but Way has a comics hinterland at least as solid as Margaret Atwood’s, with several critically acclaimed titles already under his marching-band-uniform belt (he even interned at DC as a youth).Of the four Young Animal titles scheduled to roll out before the end of the year, three are radical reinventions of existing DC characters, while the fourth is Mother Panic, an original character created by Way and artist Tommy Lee Edwards. A Gotham-based high-society heiress turned high-kicking vigilante, Mother Panic is, according to Way, loosely based on the young Courtney Love.She will make her debut in November, but readers have already had their first taste with the recent publication of Doom Patrol #1, written by Way with art by Nick Derington. Doom Patrol is a longstanding DC clearing house for alienated oddballs, and Way’s spin steers hard into fringe science and inter-dimensional absurdity. The leftfield vibe is typified by the main cover: instead of a heroic group shot introducing the reimagined Doom Patrol, here’s a foil-wrapped, half-eaten gyro (a type of Greek kebab). Will DC fans share Way’s appetite for oddness? The reviews so far have been positive, and Young Animal definitely brings some spice to the generally meat-and-potatoes approach of Rebirth.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   From Tetris: The Games People Play by Box Brown. Photograph: Self Made HeroTetris gets trilogy as story 'too big' to fit into single film Comics and video games have always enjoyed a certain synergy: mega-selling slash-’em-ups such as Assassin’s Creed and gothic dungeon crawler Dark Souls have seen their digital mythology explored and expanded in comic form. The new graphic novel Tetris: The Games People Play, published in the UK by SelfMadeHero, takes a rather different tack. Created by Box Brown, a Philadelphia-based artist who previously published an illustrated biography of jumbo grappler André The Giant, it pieces together the origin story of the addictive stacking puzzler, from its modest 1980s inception as the part-time project of Russian programmer Alexey Pajitnov to becoming the target of an international (and often underhand) bidding war among rival corporations.With flashbacks to the dawn of civilisation and a walk-on part for notorious supervillain Robert Maxwell, Brown has expertly untangled and reassembled an astonishing tale that frequently reads like a thriller set in a time of unprecedented geopolitical upheaval. It’s a blockbuster in every sense of the word.