The Great British Bake Off 8pm, BBC1After last week’s gingerbread threads, it’s the tricky bread challenge, where Paul Hollywood’s index finger pokes mercilessly at every bake, checking for rawness. Will any contestant suffer the indignity of him warning Mary Berry not to sample their undercooked loaves for safety reasons? As old questions arise about how long to prove and how long to cook, the increasingly lovely bakers deliver semi-innuendo: “I’ve fudged my timings. Hard.” Jack SealeThe Last Leg: Welcome to Rio 8pm, Channel 4Returning to its raison d’etre – the comedy chatshow was introduced for the Paralympics in 2012 – Adam Hills, Josh Widdicombe and Alex Brooker assemble for the 2016 games ahead of the opening ceremony at the Maracanã stadium. As well as looking ahead to this year’s event, they’ll look back at some of the 2012 highlights with Clare Balding, Sophie Morgan and Breaking Bad’s RJ Mitte. Ben ArnoldOur Girl 9pm, BBC1Audacious return of the military drama, with a new character – and actor – in the title role. With Lacey Turner unable to return (owing to EastEnders commitments), Coronation Street’s Michelle Keegan becomes battle-hardened army medic Georgie Lane, mid-deployment among refugee camps on Kenya’s border with Somalia. Tonight’s dramatic tension is furnished by a kidnapped aid worker, for whose rescue Lane risks more than she should. Andrew MuellerMy Congo: Natural World 9pm, BBC2One might picture Congo as a nation beset by violence. Here, wildlife cameraman Vianet Djenguet aims to highlight a different Congo. His home is the Republic of the Congo, rather different from its near-namesake, the larger Democratic Republic of the Congo. The former boasts lavish landscapes, wildlife and a most personable population. Djenguet’s infectious enthusiasm makes this a compelling visual essay. Mark Gibbings-JonesParalympics 2016: Opening Ceremony Live 9pm, Channel 4Stirring stuff, the “Yes I can … ” production number that Channel 4 put together to promote the Paralympics. Now, the opening ceremony presents more drama and colour, as Clare Balding and Adam Hills present coverage from the Maracanã stadium in Rio. But we’ll be wanting to get on with the competition – and Ellie Simmonds, Hannah Cockroft, Jonnie Peacock, David Weir and Sarah Storey are among those looking to do the business for Team GB. John RobinsonRoss Kemp: Extreme World 9pm, Sky1More trouble and strife with the once-and-future EastEnders hardnut, as season five of his far-flung travelogue kicks off in Mongolia. Over the years, Kemp has been embedded with violent criminals and witnessed failed states up close. But even he seems pretty gobsmacked by the White Swastikas, a Mongolian gang of ultra-nationalist activists who dress in Nazi regalia and celebrate Hitler’s birthday by driving a motorcade through Ulan Bator. Graeme VirtueAngelby 10pm, ITV EncoreGiven that its countries are so high-functioning and, statistically, contented, Scandinavia doesn’t half produce some downbeat dramatic fare. The latest is Angelby, a Swedish series in which Vera, a mother who loses her job and husband, resettles in a new community only, apparently, to knock down and kill a young boy. This week, the dead boy’s mother visits the police, while Vera learns more about Angleby’s strange history through a book left with her by persons unknown. David StubbsFilm choiceThe King’s Speech (Tom Hooper, 2010) 9pm, Film4Hooper’s triumphant feelgood movie is not so much about the trials of a king, as an everyman bravely overcoming disability. Colin Firth is George VI, AKA Bertie, who is tortured by his stammer until unorthodox Australian speech therapist Lionel Logue (Geoffrey Rush) offers a cure, and a friendship that teaches the king a new humanity. Helena Bonham Carter is beautifully snooty as Elizabeth, the Queen Mother-to-be; and the impeccable performances are supported by upper-crust screenplay, design and direction. Paul HowlettLive sportCycling: Tour of Britain Coverage of the fourth stage, featuring a 218km pedal from Denbigh to Builth Wells. 1pm, ITV4Tennis: US Open More quarter-final action from Flushing Meadows in New York. 4.30pm, Eurosport 1International T20 Cricket: England v Pakistan The final international game of the summer from Old Trafford. 6pm, Sky Sports 1