From Brixton, where he was born, to Beckenham, where he came of age; from Berlin, which generated three of his 25 remarkable albums, to New York’s Soho, his home for the past two decades, fans of David Bowie are mourning the death of one of rock’s most incandescent stars.In south London, where David Robert Jones spent the first four years of his life in the late 1940s, hundreds came to lay flowers in front of a large Aladdin Sane mural around the corner from the Brixton street where he once lived.David Bowie: the man who thrilled the world Moving messages nestled among the sea of blooms. “RIP David – a Starman gone to heaven,” said one. Another read: “David, thank you for everything. You inspired me and made me who I am. Farewell, and see you in the next life.”As Bowie transcended musical genres, his fans transcended generations. Rosie Lowry, a fashion photography student, came and laid flowers in full Ziggy Stardust regalia and make-up. “He was just a huge influence on me,” said the 21-year-old. “Without him, I wouldn’t have had that strength to be who I wanted to be. His music makes you feel like he’s talking directly to you.”Lowry, whose father was “a massive fan”, said she “couldn’t believe he was gone. I owe so much to him, he’s helped me through so much. I didn’t have to even think about coming down here today. I just got out of bed, and got the face paint on.”Jane Maloney, 44, brought flowers and showed off a Ziggy Stardust tattoo on her back. She, too, had grown up listening to Bowie. “I feel like I’ve lost a member of my family,” she said. “I’ve followed him since I was a kid, seen him live five times. The world is so much emptier without him here. He was an independent spirit and a unique human – there’s never been another person like him.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I’ve lost a member of my family’: Rosie Lowrey, 21, in Brixton. Photograph: Rupert Hartley/REX/ShutterstockAlison Baker, 44, was another who came to grieve. “I grew up in Perth, in Australia – suburban beachside – and it wasn’t the done thing to be different,” she said. “So when Bowie came into my life as a teenager, that just changed everything.”Baker said Bowie was “the one people followed. He never followed anyone, and that’s just extraordinary. He was completely original.” Blackstar was clearly his farewell, she said. “For him to have looked death in the eye and then create that – what an artistic way to go. He skidded into that grave, didn’t he?”Many said Bowie had exercised a profound, sometimes life-changing influence on them. Roy Brophy, 57, left flowers with a note attached that read: “Oh you pretty thing, don’t you know you’re driving our mamas and papas insane.”The singer had influenced him tremendously, Brophy said: as a young gay man, seeing Bowie on Top of the Pops had been “just brilliant, life-changing for me. His willingness to be himself, break down barriers”. And Bowie had changed “every decade”. Brophy added: “[He was] a complete chameleon. And he always had style and grace, even in his death. He’s one in a million.”David Bowie dies of cancer at 69: 'His death was a work of art' Bowie moved to south-east London with his parents when he was four, graduating from Bromley technical high school at 16, having already formed several bands. In Beckenham, the first floral tributes were laid early outside what was once the Three Tuns pub.Here, before the release of Space Oddity in 1969, Bowie would play most Sunday nights, hosting an open mike evening that became the self-styled Beckenham Arts Lab. Lin Davis, 62, who came to lay flowers at the former pub, recalled being a 15-year-old that summer. “We would come to the Arts Lab every Sunday night,” she said. “He wasn’t famous at all then, and often it would be David Bowie taking the money on the door. I’ll always remember – he once stood on my foot and I never wanted to wash the shoe. He had the most gorgeous golden curls at that time, like an Adonis, and we all fancied him.”Hard to believe now, she said, but “in 1969 there was such a buzz in Beckenham”. The singer, said Davis – who went to see the Bowie show at the Victoria and Albert Museum six times – “is in my blood”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A woman with a tattoo of David Bowie reacts as she pays her respects in front of the British singer. Photograph: Justin Tallis/AFP/Getty ImagesIn Berlin, where Bowie spent three particularly productive and innovative years in the late 1970s, the tone was set by the German foreign ministry, which tweeted: “Good-bye, David Bowie. You are now among #Heroes. Thank you for helping to bring down the #wall.” Dozens gathered outside Hauptstrasse 155, in the district of Schöneberg, where the singer shared a flat with Iggy Pop from 1976 to 1979. A selection of his hits roared out into the grey afternoon as Berliners laid flowers, candles and tributes thanking Major Tom or the Thin White Duke for decades of music.Bowie in quotes: 'I wouldn't like to make singing a full-time occupation' Many were visibly upset, wiping away tears as the last bars of Bowie’s Berlin anthem Heroes faded away into the intro of Space Oddity.“I’m here for Bowie. He was a symbol of West Berlin, the island surrounded by the Wall,” said IT consultant Thomas Hank, 54. “He wanted to get back to his roots here, he was in love with 1920s Berlin. I’ve been listening to his music for 40 years. It’s just so sad.”Briton Shaun Kemp, 39, from Doncaster, said he had moved to Berlin two years ago “partly because of Bowie’s Berlin period. It’s just perfect music. I think the city got him away from the weird period he was going through in Los Angeles. The music he made here just influenced everybody.”Christoph Storkmann, 50, said Bowie was his “musical backbone”, adding: “He even died in style – made a last record, celebrated his birthday, then went off to space. He won’t be replaced. There are the pyramids in Egypt and then there’s Bowie in the music business.”Two doors down, Guido Hoffmann, 53, a member of the German David Bowie fan club, was among crowds of people paying homage in Bowie’s former local, the Neues Ufer cafe-bar.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   People place flowers, pictures and candles at the former residence of British musician David Bowie in Berlin. Photograph: Kay Nietfeld/EPA“He used to have his breakfast of coffee and cigarettes here almost every day, before cycling to the Hansa studio. Then he’d come in for a drink in the evening,” said Hoffmann, surrounded by pictures of Bowie in his many different guises.“It was a massive shock this morning, I didn’t want to believe it at first. Only this Saturday we were celebrating his birthday, and now he’s gone. It’s only just sinking in.”Exit Bowie, discreetly: 'He thought it honourable to become invisible' Nearly 6,400 miles away across the Atlantic, the first offerings of what would become a substantial improvised memorial were laid outside the singer’s apartment at 258 Lafayette Street in New York within an hour of the news breaking. The messages were simple and heartfelt: “Thank you David. May the Gods bless us all,” said one. Another read:‎ “Love to a hero.” Kate Corman, who left a candle and a flower, said the news was “unbelievable”. She said: “First Lou Reed, now David Bowie – New York is really over now.” Mark Sands, visiting from the UK, said he and his friends “‎grew up with Bowie. He did it all; totally out there, transitioning from character to character, stuff no one else was doing.”Across the road at Puck Fair, a bar where the singer was a regular, the barman was playing a string of Bowie hits: Jean Genie, Let’s Dance, Heroes. “It’s hard to put into words what he gave us in his songs,” said punter Bill Marlborough. “If you don’t feel it, I can’t explain.”The crowds in New York, where Bowie moved in 1993 after marrying the model Iman, would have been lucky to see him when he was alive; the star’s later years were determinedly low-key and, absent from public life for a decade, he mostly came and went through the service entrance at the back of the building.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A man pays his last respects to Bowie outside the star’s New York apartment building. Photograph: Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesBut Danilo Durante, proprietor of the nearby Bottega Falai restaurant, said Bowie had been partial to his strawberry sfogliatelle pastries and Parma ham sandwich. The last time he was in, two months ago, he had seemed okay, Durante said. “We had no sense he was sick. But you could tell he liked to be low-profile. Maybe because his job was to be the opposite,” he suggested. Like many‎, Durante wondered if Bowie’s final album, Blackstar, released only last week, was a final message: “I guess he knew it was his farewell.” But few fans, it seems, ever really suspected Bowie would do anything quite so mundane as dying. “We were concerned about his health, but we thought he’d go on for ever,” said Michelle Lynn, who first saw Bowie in 1975, on his Station to Station tour. “He was an all-round great artist, always ahead of his time.”