Two years after I moved to Toronto, I crossed the intersection of Bloor Street and Bathurst Street, as I had done many dozens of times before, and slid the sole of my shoe across a manhole that had been worn smooth by decades of cars, snow ploughs and shoes. I experienced a moment of satisfying grace: it occurred to me, mid-foot-drag, on that random snowy evening, that I had done this before – that it was a habit. I had a Toronto thing, my Toronto thing, a secret in the middle of a busy intersection.“Home” is where you know the intimate details intimately: where the stairs or floorboards creak, or how to get around your apartment when the lights are off without bumping into anything. It’s a deep, almost subconscious familiarity with place that makes us feel comfortable and safe, even if we don’t think about it too much. But the feeling takes a while to trickle out into the streets of a new city. I looked for signs, like the manhole cover, that suggested I was part of the place I had moved to In this era of unprecedented urban migration and mobility, more people are looking to find home in places they didn’t grow up. Learning the streets and the short cuts of a new city is the easy part, though; the social part of feeling home is trickier. In London it might be bumping into a person you know on the street, thereby evaporating some of the anonymity of the big city. In Oslo it might mean getting a coveted invite to a cottage in one of the lake districts north of the city. Of course, in an unequal world, accessing power and playing a part charting the city’s future is the most elusive “home” feeling of all: only very few folks get to choose the city’s wallpaper and carpet.My move 400km from Windsor to Toronto was not, in global terms, a difficult migration. I already had some friends and acquaintances waiting – and yet I still found the absence of feeling at home unsettling. So I looked for signs, like the manhole cover, that suggested I was part of the place I had moved to – no longer just floating along with the current and bumping into things, but instead bumping back, as if I were rooted to the ground.When did your new city start feeling like home? Share your story Then, five years into my Toronto life, a friend’s grandmother in hospital developed a sudden heart condition. My friend was worried, so I made my first visit to a Toronto hospital to visit Granny, as we all called her. Thankfully, it was a brief illness; I later returned to the same hospital when that same friend gave birth to her first child. It had become a familiar place – and, I realised, a sign that I was developing roots here, getting tangled up with other people. The art deco facade of Toronto East General became an intimate landmark. For now, it is a place with good memories, though that will no doubt change – which is precisely how I know my city is home.When did you know your new city was home? Share your moments with us using this form and a selection will be published at Guardian Cities 