The 19th century American scholar and educator Anna Julia Cooper’s prophetic words “when and where I enter” are a call to leave no one behind in the struggle for equality. When she wrote this, in her seminal work A Voice from the South, Cooper understood that progress and equality in the US could not be achieved until African-American women, who faced multiple forms of oppression, were put front and centre.Her words ring true today as we consider those who experience intersecting oppressions and have been ignored in global efforts to achieve gender equality and end the HIV epidemic: women of colour, transgender people, men who have sex with men, people who use drugs, adolescent girls and young women, people in prison, individuals living with HIV, and sex workers.Realising that Aids cannot be stopped without putting the health and rights of those who have been neglected at the centre of our efforts, the UN, international donors, advocates and others have stepped up commitments to address the health and rights of these “key populations”. Last month, the US government announced a new $100m (£76m) fund to expand access to HIV prevention and treatment for these people. Private arts: Bangkok museum celebrates Thai sex industry and its workers | Oliver Holmes While the individuals who make up these groups are diverse, with distinct health needs, they share a common experience of stigma and discrimination that prevents them from accessing health services and realising their rights.When it comes to female sex workers, there is significant work to be done to bring them to the centre of the global Aids response. The stigma they face as sex workers and women can be compounded by poverty, class, race, ethnicity, drug use, gender identity and expression, and sexual orientation.Female sex workers bear a disproportionate burden of HIV and Aids, but also have unmet needs such as family planning, safe pregnancy, abortion access and gender-based violence prevention. The causes of poor health for female sex workers are diverse but structural barriers such as criminalisation and systemic human rights violations are common.A report by the Centre for Health and Gender Equity (Change) explores the many barriers to health and rights that female sex workers face. The report highlights evidence that laws criminalising sex work put female sex workers at disproportionately high risk of harassment and violence by police, clients and intimate partners. Criminalisation also encourages female sex workers to move their work “underground” where they have less control of their working conditions, including condom use and client screening, and are less able to access essential health services. Adolescent girls who sell sex and engage in transactional sex are at especially high risk of exploitation and abuse, and face greater difficulty accessing treatment and prevention services.Based on Change’s examination of peer-reviewed articles and extensive interviews with practitioners and advocates, the report concludes that decriminalisation of sex work is necessary for female sex workers to fully realise their rights and is necessary for an effective global HIV response. However, decriminalisation is not a cure-all. National health plans should recognise female sex workers and ensure that healthcare is available, accessible and acceptable. Legal services must be on hand to address rights violations. HIV prevention, treatment and care – and other health services – must be made available to adolescent girls who sell sex and engage in transactional sex, while efforts to protect children from sexual exploitation and abuse must be improved and perpetrators brought to justice. The promotion of community empowerment and partnerships between sex worker-led organisations, governments and civil society must be strengthened and sustained.Amnesty International in global programme to decriminalise sex work The report also flags US policies that are barriers to the health and rights of female sex workers, such as the anti-prostitution loyalty oath (APLO) and national security presidential directive 22 (NSPD-22). The APLO is a provision in US law that requires organisations that receive US global HIV and Aids funding to have a policy opposing prostitution. The policy has been proven to perpetuate stigma and discrimination against sex workers, making it harder for health workers to reach this neglected population. NSPD-22 has undercut US work on Aids by conflating sex work with trafficking.These policies not only betray women worldwide by putting female sex workers’ lives at risk, they also block the US from advancing its own goals to end the HIV epidemic and advance gender equality. Every woman should have access to the health services and care she needs and have her rights respected and protected; female sex workers are no exception. Now is the time to refocus our efforts to achieve gender equality and end the HIV epidemic with female sex workers at the centre. We cannot end Aids or achieve gender equality if female sex workers are left behind.Serra Sippel is president of the Center for Health and Gender Equity