BBC's Nigel Farage comedy to explore his 'empty hours of retirement' We’re with Nigel Farage immediately after his post-Brexit resignation as Ukip leader. Having just given a speech announcing that “I want my life back – starting now,” he’s headed straight to his office for an important meeting with a colleague. Except that by “office”, he means “pub”. And the name of his colleague? “Mr Rothmans”.Also, by “Nigel Farage”, we mean “Kevin Bishop”. He’s playing the lead role in Nigel Farage Gets His Life Back, a one-off BBC2 mockumentary inspired by the Ukip leader’s decision to stand down. Thus, on a warm October day, the Star Stories actor is standing outside a Harrow boozer that’s been turned into Farage’s local, and his face is contorted by prosthetics.“There were tears before schooltime when I FaceTimed my kids this morning,” cackles Bishop from under a faceful of wrinkly, mahogany-toned rubber. “They went: ‘What’s happened to you, Daddy?’ ‘Well,’” he pauses, slipping into the MEP for south-east England’s creepy rasp. “‘I’ve BECOME! NIGEL! FARAGE!’”Pensioners potter past and a three lions flag flutters in the breeze as Bishop details what it takes to become the UK’s Europhobe-In-Chief. There’s a three-hour stint in the makeup chair, temporary grey dye to be combed through his side-parting, and some technical preparations in order to affect a voice that sounds like he’s gargled broken glass: “I’ve been smoking 20 a day for weeks. I wouldn’t recommend it.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kevin Bishop gets the ’tache. Photograph: Adam LawrenceKevin Bishop’s favourite TV The trickiest part of becoming the Ukip figurehead, though? Learning how not to detest him. “When I was first asked to play Farage, I hated him so much. I just thought: ‘He’s a racist and there’s nothing charming about this guy whatsoever!’” offers Bishop. “But I watched a lot of footage of him, and unlike all our career politicians he comes across as though he genuinely believes in what he’s doing, rather than trying to climb a greasy political pole... Not that I’m going to vote for him any time soon.”The cue is given to start filming: Bishop flickers a lighter over a cigarette and begins marching forcefully towards the pub. As he stops to greet a crowd of corduroyed pensioners thrusting eager hands at him, it’s hard not to be unnerved by the voice: Bishop’s croaky Farage tone is somewhere between a bag of gravel and Papa Lazarou. It’s a good impersonation – Bishop has perfected Farage’s random bursts of laughter and habit of manically jerking his head – albeit a version that’s slightly exaggerated to bring out his creepiness. “I have this kind of panicky, pulse-racing feeling when I’m on set,” shudders Alan Connor, one of the show’s writers, in agreement.You can see where the panic might stem from. Farage and Brexit are so politically charged that they feel like risky subject matter for a non-partisan public-service broadcaster to find laughs in. On set, however, everyone is at pains to deny suggestions that the show will be a political critique. “I’d never do a character where I’m thinking: ‘This’ll teach them a lesson!’” says Bishop.“It really is just a comedy about a man with a lot of time on his hands,” adds executive producer Peter Holmes. “He watches a bit of Pointless. He tries to cook some food only to find out that he’s not very good at it. It’s basically my life when I’m not at work.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bishop goes over his lines after Nige forces another hasty rewrite. Photograph: Adam LawrenceIs satire dead? Armando Iannucci and others on why there are so few laughs these days Is it OK to make funny out of someone who treads so close to the politics of racism, though? Even Bishop admits that as filming went on, he became “concerned that we might be humanising someone who’s quite hated”. Still, if you can portray Farage’s worldview as something that should cause belly laughs, perhaps it’s worth the risk. After all, his love of English parochialism is so one-note that he’s virtually a self-mockery already. “He’s ripe for parody; he seems to want to take us back to another time,” chuckles Bishop. Indeed, as filming progresses, his characterisation of Farage starts to resemble a more bigoted Alan Partridge. We variously find him railing against salad-serving pubs that play music – “I want my lunch in a pub, not a vegetarian disco!” – or gibbering in horror that leftwing craptrap has permeated the most respected bastions of journalism (“I expect this from the BBC or Fleet Street. But I never thought I’d see it in the North Kent Chronicle!”). When he’s not punctuating his own jokes by laughing like someone’s popped on his favourite Bernard Manning DVD, he’s drinking old-man ales called White Cliffs or Rule The Waves.Farage isn’t exactly child’s play to spoof, though. As we go to leave, the crew are complaining about how the real life of Donald Trump’s new BFF keeps complicating things. “There was a point where we thought that that Ukip MEP [Steven Woolfe, rushed to hospital after an altercation with another Ukip politician] might die, and we had to ask: ‘Will we [still] be able to air this?’ confesses Bishop.“Also that ’tache. No one saw that coming. Total continuity nightmare,” chips in Connor.Even worse, Farage’s replacement as Ukip leader, Diane James, has stood down since filming started, meaning that Nigel is back as interim leader and hasn’t actually got his life back yet at all, contradicting the show’s title. However, the crew still hope it’ll be OK. “We’ve covered ourself by filming an ending that works for almost any circumstance”, says Bishop. “It’d take Nigel to do something very, very drastic for it to be a problem.” Surely they’re not ruling that out? “Ha!” laughs Bishop as we exit. “No I’m not!’Nigel Farage Gets His Life Back, Sunday 30 Oct, 10pm, BBC2