Lifesavers in Western Australia say they have seen no evidence that shark culling would be effective in reducing attacks and have hit out at claims their mitigation plan is “timid”.The Senate inquiry into shark deterrence and mitigation began its hearing in Perth on Thursday. The hearing had been scheduled for some month but is taking place in the aftermath of the death of teenager Laeticia Maree Brouwer on Monday. Call to classify shark culling and drum lines as threats to endangered species Brouwer was surfing with her family at popular surf break Kelp Beds, near Esperance, when she was fatally attacked, possibly by a great white shark. Her death has reignited the debate over shark deterrence, which in turn prompted a war of words between the federal environment minister, Josh Frydenberg, who appears supportive of culling and drum lines, and the Western Australian government, which has cast doubt on the effectiveness of culling and refused to deploy drum lines after the attack. The committee’s chairman, the Greens senator Peter Whish-Wilson, immediately offered his condolences to Brouwer, her family and friends, and others affected by her death.Whish-Wilson then hit out at News Corp, for suggesting that any such statement of condolence from the committee would be “breathtaking hypocrisy” because members had previously opposed the culling of sharks.“I want to put on our record today how insulting this is for members of the committee, who are just doing their job as parliamentarians on a very important matter of public interest,” Whish-Wilson said.The hearing was marked by heated exchanges from the outset. The Liberal senator Linda Reynolds accused Whish-Wilson of downplaying the deaths of 15 Western Australians since 2000, after he suggested the media overrepresented shark attacks compared with drownings. Whish-Wilson dismissed the suggestion and said Reynolds should win an academy award for her performance. The inquiry is expected to be dominated by the recurring debate on whether to mitigate the risk of sharks through lethal means – culling, drum lines, or meshing, for example – or to adopt other approaches.Surf Life Saving Western Australia’s general manager, Chris Peck, said he had not seen any evidence that shark culling or drum lines were effective. “Our job is to preserve life, that is why we exist as an organisation,” Peck said. “This particular issue... we want to see that there is tried and tested and proven outcomes before we implement anything and we just don’t see that at the moment for meshing, drum lines, or culling.”Peck said there had only been one fatal shark attack at a patrolled beach in recent years. He said the state had a vastly different coastline than the eastern states and said the experiences in Queensland, where drum lines and culling are used, were not necessarily transferrable.The organisation has outlined a six-phase mitigation strategy to prevent shark attacks, which includes research and development, education and awareness, surveillance, communication, preventative action and emergency response.News Corp previously described the plan as timid, an assessment Peck rejected at the inquiry on Thursday.Peck said that, in the past two years, lifesavers had provided 258 direct warnings that allowed more than 4,600 individuals to clear waters.He said aerial surveillance, VR4 receivers, or public sightings had allowed lifesavers to clear tens of thousands of beach users from waters where there was an immediate threat. Peck said the measures had saved lives and their importance should not be underestimated. But he warned the current strategy did not fully protect surfers or divers, particularly in remote areas where lifesavers had no presence, or in waters far from shoreline.“There is no magic bullet to prevent shark attacks and we believe a variety of initiatives must overlap,” Peck said.Frydenberg to consider shark cull, drumlines after death of WA teenager The activist group Sea Shepherd also gave evidence to the inquiry. It said there was no evidence to support the effectiveness of culling but warned the hysterical response of some media outlets was putting pressure on politicians to act.Sea Shepherd’s chief shark adviser, Natalie Banks, said the experience of Hawaii, which culled 4,600 tiger sharks over 18 years, showed such measures were ineffective.Banks said the culling program did not reduce the incidence of shark attacks. She said the culling program was subsequently stopped.The group’s managing director, Jeff Hansen, said culling sharks potentially lulled beach-goers into a false sense of security. “That is a dangerous place to be, we need to look at other options,” Hansen said.He cast doubt on suggestions that great white sharks would be taken off the protected species list, saying the federal government would need to seek the approval of international conservation agencies. Sea Shepherd has also cast doubt on suggestions that shark numbers have exploded. Frydenberg told Perth radio on Thursday that “blind Freddy” could see that shark numbers had increased.University of Western Australia’s centre for marine futures director, Prof Jessica Meeuwig, said anecdotal reports of increased shark numbers could be due to higher numbers of people in the water, changed shark behaviour due to climate change, or dumping of boat from fishing vessels, which caused sharks to follow boats.Meeuwig dismissed lethal measures as ineffective and a waste of resources and energy. She raised concerns about media reporting, which tended to advocate for culling and drumlines despite a lack of evidence. She warned killing sharks could alter ecosystems more broadly, much like the removal of wolves from Yellowstone national park in the US. The chief executive of a business selling personal deterrent devices, Shark Shield, also gave evidence to the inquiry.Lyndsay Lyon said his company was not hyping the products to make money, saying it hasn’t made a profit in 10 years.He said there was three pieces of independent scientific research supporting the efficacy of the devices, which transmit an electromagnetic field to repel sharks.Lyon said it was impossible to reduce all risk of shark attacks but said Shark Shield was proven, independently-validated technology.He said the company was developing a new product that would provide a 100m diameter electromagnetic field for shark protection. 