New research from American Express shows heading back to school will cost the average family with two children £332 – the equivalent of nearly six weeks’ worth of food shopping – just to get the prescribed items from their uniform lists. Another survey found that British parents spend a whopping £4,000 on school uniforms throughout their child’s education.So what can families do to cut the cost? Supermarkets have become the choice for parents seeking to save on school uniforms with Morrisons, Asda, Sainsbury’s, Tesco and Marks & Spencer all offering a range of deals. However, a recent study by Morrisons found that four in five parents needed to replace uniforms within the same year of purchase and two-thirds of school uniforms were replaced within six months. Social media, such as Facebook selling groups in your local area, is a great way to grab school bargains from parents keen to declutter outgrown clothes, many in fantastic condition. One version of this word-of-mouth selling is Schoolreviewer.co.uk, a website that has a buy/sell feature on the page for every educational establishment listed. It is, in essence, a captive audience of parents so sales are quicker and you save on postage – which makes it a more efficient selling route than other sites such as eBay. In addition, a portion of proceeds from each transaction will be given to the parent-teacher association of each participating school, so you’re saving money and helping a good cause too.For parents who are really feeling the pinch, there are some local authority grants available, but they are patchy. The Gov.uk/help-school-clothing-costs site directs you to local councils in England that may be able to offer some help. We tested various authorities – East Sussex and Newcastle said there were no grants, but York said it had vouchers worth £40 to £70 available to those entitled to free school meals, while the City of London said it had grants worth up to £135. Separate arrangements apply in Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales. Northern Irish education authorities offer parents whose children qualify for free school meals £35.75 at primary age and £51-£56 once they are at secondary school. Wales offers up to £105 to those on free school meals. £90: ‘It’s Morrisons for us’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Matt Hazeldine and his son Cayden. Photograph: David Sillitoe for the GuardianMatt Hazeldine, a father of three, lives in Tarvin, Cheshire, with his wife Michelle. His 12-year-old son, Cayden, is starting at Tarporley High School. He spends £20 at Morrison’s for the core items and £70 for the school logo items.“We have three boys, five, 12 and 15, so all of school age, which means going back to school can be a very expensive time of year. It’s essential that we keep costs down where possible but without reducing the quality. It’s easier than it used to be now that supermarkets like Morrisons do good value clothes.“For Cayden’s start at his new school, we’ve got to get grey trousers, pale blue shirts, a navy jumper and black shoes. The school isn’t strict on where we get these from so we can go to the supermarket, but we do get the school blazer, PE shirts and PE shorts from the school shop as they have to be emblazoned with the school logo. The main restrictions on what they can’t wear to school are skinny jeans and designer canvas shoes like Vans.“We have to have clothes that will last the wear and tear of the schoolyard. We’ve had problems where the price has been reasonable, but the durability has let us down, which meant costly and regular replacements.”£250: ‘The school sent a very strict list’       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Linda Greenwood with her son, Charlie, in his new school uniform. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianLinda Greenwood, mum of one, is a civil servant and lives in Redcar, North Yorkshire. Her 11-year-old son Charlie will be attending Rye Hills School. She spends about £250.“Buying Charlie’s school uniform used to be pretty easy when he was younger. He starts secondary school this September and it’s been far from easy. And much more expensive! The school sent us a very specific and strict list of what we had to buy and there was no deviating from it.“I’ve easily spent upwards of £250. So far, I’ve paid £74.15 for PE kit and £38 for a tie and blazer and for the trainers, football boots, shin pads and black shoes, it’ll be around £100-£150. I’ve bought six white shirts (3x2 packs from Tesco, phew!) and five pairs of black trousers, which have been a problem. Charlie’s very tall and into boys age 15-16 or men’s medium. There is one style he likes from Next, but they only go up to a 16-year-old size, so next year I’m going to struggle. The school have a contract with a local shop and they supply all the embroidered uniforms. It’s quite the monopoly. “I wish the school would let us choose where we buy the items and take them to be embroidered.”£800: ‘My children are at private schools’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sue Lemmer with two of her children, Alfie and Evie. Photograph: Sue LemmerSue Lemmer lives in Cobham, Surrey, and has three children including 11-year-old Evie at Notre Dame School in Cobham and 15-year-old Alfie at Seaford College, West Sussex. She can spend upwards of £800 per child for uniforms and sports kit.“My eldest son left Reed’s School in Cobham last year and the setup with regards to uniform was ideal, with a school shop on site. I could pop in or make an appointment or even set an account limit which allowed my son to get things himself at any time, food or uniform with an online stock list complimenting this. “It’s a totally different story for Evie and Alfie. Their costs have been astronomical, with their blazers costing £100 a piece. “Now maybe £100 isn’t too much if the quality will last everyday usage and it doesn’t have to be replaced yearly, but I fear that won’t be the case and it’ll be an annual expenditure for us.“All their uniform has been overpriced, with a white girl’s shirt being £23 at age 11! In Marks & Spencer, you can get three for that price so it shows the school is looking to make quite a hefty profit. Every year, it sets me back around £600 to kit them out at the start, especially as they are all growing, and then they need another £200 on sports gear on top of this, so it adds up very quickly! Their uniform costs more than normal because it has the school logo printed on all items and it often has names sewn into them.“Ideally, I would love all schools to have a school shop on site, especially if their uniform is lost or taken. It makes the experience easier and cuts out the stress of waiting on deliveries and clothes fitting. The benefit to having a shop is that labels can be printed on site and done while you wait – it saves having to iron on tags.“Alfie’s uniform isn’t so simple to get. You have to book to go to London for a fitting or everything has to be done online. Annoyingly sizes never seem to be accurate, so sometimes half the uniform has to be sent back. “It’s very hit and miss, especially with sport kits. Every sport has a different kit – cricket, rugby, hockey or netball – so with the kids all playing sport, they need Astros, and relevant boots or trainers for these sports which adds on another £300 for six pairs.”