On a winter’s day in Melbourne in 2012 I was offered some tickets to an exhibition of Napoleon’s uniforms, furniture, china, paintings, snuff boxes, military decorations and memorabilia. We are often told he is a tyrant but we do not quite listen. We hear him compared to Hitler, but the comparison does not take root. For all the blood and human waste and murderous narcissism of his career, the late phases of the French Revolution and the Consulate, and then the Empire, possess ineffable style in ideas and new politics, in art and human venturing.There were reasons in the exquisite furniture the emperor and Josephine had commissioned from Jacob Frères, who might have come as close to heaven in their creations as any furniture makers of history, interspersed with Sèvres porcelain and silver plates, and paintings by Ingres and David. Everything, I assumed, came from Europe. In fact, it was not so. Some of the material, including a Légion d’honneur, a swatch of the emperor’s hair, and a death mask of the man showing some mutilation of his head, came in fact from an 1840s homestead named The Briars, only 20 miles away from the city. And there, in the catalogue, was a name that teased the brain: Betsy Balcombe. The Australian items seemed to have a connection with this adolescent girl who had lived on the mid-Atlantic island of St Helena when the emperor was stuck there. And the Balcombes, ultimately exiled to Australia, had brought these memorabilia with them. The idea of a friendship between the emperor and a girl who would end up in Australia, her family destroyed by their association with him, gripped me utterly.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A visitor looks at the camp bed in which Napoleon died on the remote Atlantic Island of St Helena. Photograph: Francois Mori/APIn the absence of flights to St Helena – plans to open a recently built airport have been indefinitely postponed – the island has been served for decades by a cargo-passenger ship, RMS St Helena. That’s how my wife, Judy, and I visited it last year to celebrate our 50th wedding, and to compare the geography and atmospherics of its landscape with the novel I had written about Napoleon’s time there.The British East India Company was granted a royal charter over the island in 1658, which was still held when the emperor and his entourage arrived as detainees in October 1815. Back then, ships were more frequently sighted from St Helena, driven there by the ceaseless trade winds that would depress the exiled emperor. William Balcombe, Betsy’s father, was the company’s superintendent of sales there, which combined the roles of provedore and ship’s chandler.The island, with its tortured cliffs, is the summit of an undersea volcano bigger than Etna. There were only a couple of points from which a fugitive could realistically embark a ship: Jamestown, the island’s port jammed into its crevice between two huge rock headlands; and a little inlet on the wild south side of the island. St Helena is totally isolated: Cape Town is 3,130km away to the southeast, Brazil 5,000km to the west.In 1815, the island had only two days’ warning that the emperor was on his way. His proposed accommodation, at that stage the wreck of an old farm named Longwood House, was not ready. On his second day ashore, making his way up the terraces into the interior to visit Longwood, he saw a very elegant bungalow-style house, with an orchard and a summerhouse, in a small valley below. So the Balcombes went through the extraordinary experience of having Napoleon and members of his entourage pulling in through their carriageway and seeking to stay with them.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Napoleon’s bath. Photograph: davidbordes.com/Longwood HouseWilliam and Jane Balcombe offered Napoleon their entire home, but he took only the summer house on a hillock beside the garden – a structure named the Pavilion. As a result, the Balcombe children became accustomed to having the emperor on the premises. If tales of 13-year-old Betsy’s bluntness can be believed, she and the emperor teased each other relentlessly, Betsy not being above asking him if he was sorry now that he had ever invaded Russia? While at the Pavilion, Napoleon encouraged horseplay, and threw himself into games of blind man’s buff and hide and seek, while also forming a more serious alliance with the amiable William.If we read Betsy’s 1844 memoirs, or those of Louis Marchand, Napoleon’s handsome valet, it is easy to recreate the daily regime of the emperor in his first weeks on the island, at the time the Balcombes were developing an emotional allegiance to him. The British gave Napoleon an ultimatum to move out of the Pavilion and into Longwood. Many years later, the Australian granddaughter of little Alex Balcombe, Dame Mabel Brookes, bought the area of now-vanished Briars and the still-standing Pavilion and presented it as a gift to France – it is now one of a number of small French enclaves on the island.Longwood House, where Napoleon lived, gardened, plotted and died, is also part of France, and Betsy and others vividly describe its humidity, ceaseless wind (the island’s turbine farm is just a few hundred metres down the road these days from Longwood), and the massive block of rock, called the Barn, which cramped the view of the sea to the east. Longwood was only 2.5 miles from the Briars, but might as well have been in another, less genial country. Marchand the valet hung cloth from the emperor’s bedroom walls to hide the condensation. In the then windowless and humid dining room (one window has been put in since) the emperor’s party tried to keep the formality of dinners while long-established colonies of rats banged their heads against the tin plates hammered on to the floor to prevent their entry. The emperor’s distaste for his lot had been augmented by the arrival as governor of a British soldier, Sir Hudson Lowe, a narrow man who felt the task of detaining that great spirit of the age very heavily upon him. Pettifogging and mean, he sent the two battalions of soldiers on constrictive patrols of the Longwood perimeter, disposing artillery and semaphore stations on heights above Longwood. He held up the delivery of books and newspapers and even a bust of the emperor’s son.At some stage William began smuggling unauthorised letters and money bills for the emperor. The island had become a place of spies, and of spies spying on spies. These activities contributed to his returning to England in disfavour. The Balcombes’ reasons for leaving the island that year were complex – ill-health was part of it, but also the ruthless pressure of the governor. William and his family, once in England, lived in genteel poverty while the Tory cabinet considered whether he should be charged with treason.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Napoleon on his death bed. Photograph: Daniel Arnaudet/Gérard BlotNapoleon died of stomach cancer in the salon at Longwood in May 1821. (I do not subscribe to the theories about murder by poison administered by Count de Montholon.) But the Balcombes were still under his shadow. The prize, in 1823, for William’s agreeing to swear an affidavit as to the merciful behaviour of Sir Hudson and the British cabinet towards Napoleon, was that William would be given a government job. It turned out to be a post in Australia, as colonial treasurer of New South Wales. Never fully at ease with himself and the world again, Napoleon’s friend, whom he nicknamed Cinq Bouteilles, died in office in Sydney in 1829, leaving disorder and debt.Betsy had married a man named Abell, an habitual gambler who abandoned her after their daughter was born. A gentlewoman, her beauty commented on by many, she was regarded as damaged goods and never able to marry again. In the end she returned to England permanently and made a living teaching music in England. In the Victorian artist Alfred Tidey’s work,The Piano Lesson, which hangs in the Worthing Art Museum, she is depicted her in her mid-years as a trim, extremely handsome figure. She died in London in 1871.Bed, bath and beyond: Napoleon's dying days brought back to life In Betsy’s journal there are subtexts, things hinted at rather than mentioned, and in the spirit of fiction (which after all is a synonym for a lie). I have tried to guess, I hope not too implausibly, at what the gaps and silences might mean. But I am also aware that the relationship between the Balcombes and Napoleon makes an extraordinary tale even taken straight. Without any invention thrown in at all.• Napoleon’s Last Island by Thomas Keneally is published by Sceptre. An exhibition of Napoleon’s time on St Helena is at Musée de l’Armée, Hôtel des Invalides, Paris, until August musee-armee.fr