A painting of two horses and a groom that was thought to be a copy of a George Stubbs painting will this week be revealed as the genuine article. The painting was owned for more than 50 years by the Huntington Library in San Marino, California, before a decision was taken to deaccession and sell it, without reserve, at an auction in New York last year. It was incorrectly catalogued as a copy “after Stubbs”.After the sale, news got round in art history circles that it was likely to be the real deal, leading the TV art historian Bendor Grosvenor to write a post on his blog in which he called it “one of the biggest deaccessioning blunders of modern times”.The buyer was the UK dealer Archie Parker, of the Parker Gallery, who will unveil the Stubbs, titled Two Hacks, the property of Henry Ulrick Reay Esq of Burn Hall Co Durham and their blue-liveried groom in a landscape, at the annual British Antique Dealers’ Association (Bada) fair in London.Parker recalled seeing the painting, with an estimate of $3,000-$5,000, on the Christie’s website shortly before the sale and thinking it must be a real Stubbs. Further research stiffened his resolve.From paintings to entire castle rooms, UK treasures that vanished in America “We saw it on a Friday afternoon and the sale was on the Tuesday, so I booked a flight there and then. I arrived on Monday, viewed it in the saleroom, and agreed with my initial instinct that it was perfectly genuine and then sat on my hands for 24 hours and went to the sale and bought it.“It is quintessential Stubbs of that period. It is very difficult to describe unless you are in front of it … From the moment I saw it in Christie’s, and I was stood 200 yards away, I already had the feeling of ‘wow’.”The painting was offered without reserve, but Parker believes other dealers, guessing it might be more than it seemed, were bidding against him. That brought the hammer price to $175,000. With commission, it came to $215,000 (£176,000).“It is a lot of money if you’re wrong,” said Parker. “When you’re bidding, you do think: ‘What have I just done? Am I completely mad?’”Stubbs is regarded as one of the greatest, if not the greatest, painter of horses, whose 1762 masterpiece Whistlejacket is one of the National Gallery’s best-loved paintings.Parker is now selling his Stubbs for £750,000 and he admits it would be more if noone knew how much he had paid for it. He believes the price at auction would be significantly higher. “We feel that as we bought it rather well, it is only fair that whoever buys it, buys it rather well.”The painting was gifted to the Huntington as a Stubbs in 1958. The confusion over its authenticity arose because there is another version of the same scene in the Ambrose Clarke collection of sporting paintings. They were conflated into one painting in the catalogue raisonné of Stubbs paintings published in 2007, which brought about the assumption that the Huntington painting was a copy.Because Parker’s business partner restored the Ambrose Clarke work 30 years ago, he is able to prove that it was painted a year after the Huntington work. Parker said the most likely scenario was that Stubbs painted the same picture twice because he was asked to do so by the family who commissioned it.The Stubbs will be on view at a fair to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the Bada. Other highlights include an abstract drawing by Andy Warhol, a first edition of Cecil Beaton’s The Book of Beauty (1930), and a rare chronometer carriage clock.