What?The Stingray kitchen 6-in-1 multitool (£11.85, from Amazon) is a set of flat-head tongs, bifurcated on the upper arm. Closing the device retracts the tines, “launching” food impaled thereon.Why?Ground control to Major Tongs. There’s something wrong.Well?If I were emperor, I would enforce a law: things have to be as cool as their name. For example, “helicopter parenting” would only apply to the practice of throwing kids into piano lessons from 15,000 feet. When David Cameron convenes a meeting at Cobra, it better be because he’s planning to attack GI Joe. If you work as a notary, you cannot be called Zander. It would be a strict rule, with the civil service expected to toe the party line (which would be an enormous conga all around Whitehall).My dictatorial instincts have been roused by this week’s gadget, a multi-use kitchen tool called the Stingray, which sounds like a Gerry Anderson-style weapon with which to battle the Aquaphibians, but looks like a spatula bought at B&Q. It has a rubberised orange handle and head, perhaps because it’s made by a Dutch company, TNK. The colour is more redolent of easyJet and mobile phones than Rembrandt and total football, but that’s capitalism.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Stingray’s main components are a fork and a set of tongs that double as a spatula. Photograph: Graeme Robertson for the GuardianAs with Dutch sporting philosophy, versatility is the key. Stingray combines a spatula, a toothed tong and a fork in one utensil. It’s a striking chimera, and has a signature move, in which closing the tongs pushes food off the fork. TNK calls this feature “launch control”, immodestly implying it’s rocket science. I tried it and my sausages pinged around like intercontinental Scud missiles, with no control involved. Maybe bangers are too aerodynamic. The rest – grip, flip tongs and bottle-opener – are fine. I like the hook that locks the device’s legs closed, like a chastity belt.But, and I hate to say this, the device is ugly. It looks like a croc being bayoneted through the snout. Oh Stingray, you are clever and useful, yes. But, just as with people, the things we need and the ones we want are entirely different. I’m sorry this tale has a sting in the telling, but I can never love you, not in my heart. It’s best you swim away now. I know it’s hard. In breakups, there’s no such thing as launch control.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Redeeming features?Clacking its jaws open and closed is a bit like sock puppetry.Counter, drawer, cupboard?Its natural habitat is buried in sand, beneath the Black Sea. We’ve all been there. 3/5