When I discovered the theme for my recipe swap, I was grateful and relieved in equal measure. While this classic sweet-but-bitter citrus preserve always has a place at my breakfast table, the supply from my enthusiastic jam-making auntie often outstrips the demand. I’ve experimented to a certain degree (spreading it over a pork shoulder, layering in breakfast pots with creamy Greek yoghurt, swirling through brownie batter), but your suggestions have given me a renewed vigour.In all cases, these recipes have proved to be so much more than the sum of their parts. That characteristic bitterness is just what an indulgent, chocolatey pudding needs to pull it back from the brink of sickly sweet; it pairs perfectly with robust, woody herbs while retaining its character, and, what’s more, a little spike of heat will mean you will be reaching for a spoon at breakfast, lunch and dinner. See this as a chance to think beyond tea and toast.The winning recipe: Marmalade panna cotta with bay and bourbonWhat I loved most about Detoutcoeur Limousin’s panna cotta is that it’s a collection of classic ingredients used to make a crowd-pleasing pudding, but somehow, it tastes exciting and new. It’s creamy, sharp, heady and rich, all in one mouthful, with the warming sweetness of the marmalade giving a good contrast to savoury bay. Using finely shredded marmalade will give a smoother texture.Makes 63 gelatine leaves250ml double cream400ml creme fraiche100ml whole milk2 bay leaves150g Seville orange marmaladeJuice and zest of 1 orange, plus extra zest to serveZest of 1 lemon2 tbsp bourbon (optional)1 Put the gelatine leaves in a bowl of cold water for around 5 minutes, or until they soften.2 Heat the cream, creme fraiche and milk with the bay leaves and marmalade until it is all just starting to simmer. Remove from the heat and add the zest and juice of an orange and the lemon zest, then simmer for a few minutes until slightly thickened.3 Remove the gelatine from the water, squeezing to remove any excess, then take the cream mixture off the heat and whisk in the gelatine and bourbon, if using. Remove the bay leaves and leave to cool for about 20-30 minutes before pouring into 250ml ramekins, or other serving dishes. Refrigerate to set for about 3-5 hours, or overnight.4 Garnish with a bit of extra orange zest on top of each dessert before serving.Chocolate orange bread puddingFaye Cooke says this recipe has won over both bread-and-butter pudding and marmalade haters. I’ve served it to both, and concur.Serves 6Butter, for greasing250g stale brioche, sliced thickly100g marmalade50g dark chocolate, roughly chopped2 eggs2 tbsp caster sugarZest of 1 orange150ml double cream225ml whole milk1 tsp vanilla extract1 tbsp demerara sugarCream or custard, to serve1 Preheat the oven to 160C/325F/gas mark 3 and grease an ovenproof dish.2 Make sandwiches with the brioche and marmalade, cut them into triangles and arrange evenly in the dish. Sprinkle over the chocolate.3 Whisk the eggs and caster sugar together, along with the orange zest, cream, milk and vanilla extract. Pour this over the bread and leave it to soak for about 10 minutes. Sprinkle over the demerara sugar.4 Put in the centre of the oven and bake for about 45 minutes, or until the pudding has just set. Remove, let it cool slightly and divide into 6 slices. Serve with cream or custard.Marmalade and turmeric cocktailI’ve filed away Fadime Tiskaya’s cocktail recipe for Christmas; the sharpness of the tonic, lemon and marmalade has a palate-refreshing quality.Serves 240g marmalade10g fresh turmeric, finely grated40g rum200ml orange juice, freshly squeezed100ml tonic water4 tbsp lemon juice6-8 ice cubes1 Heat the marmalade in small pan with half of the turmeric. Let it cool.2 Mix everything in a cocktail shaker or blender really well until it is all combined, then serve. Feel free to sieve for a smoother finish, but I personally like the bits in.Marmalade and chocolate tartLook no further than Alice Shields’ gorgeously rich marmalade and chocolate tart for those times when you need a pudding as indulgent as it is fast to throw together.Serves 8For the base400g milk chocolate digestives100g unsalted butter, melted, plus more for greasingFor the filling5 tbsp rough cut marmalade300ml double cream200g milk chocolate, broken into small chunks100g dark chocolate, broken into small chunks1 Grease a 20cm loose bottomed tart tin with butter.2 Put the biscuits into a food processor and blitz until they resemble breadcrumbs. Add the melted butter and blitz again, until the crumbs start to clump together.3 Put the biscuit mixture into the greased tart tin. Press down the mixture with the back of a spoon, so that it evenly compacts in the tin and up the sides. Put the base in the fridge to set for at least 1 hour.4 Once the base has set, spoon in 4 tbsp of the marmalade, and evenly spread it out.5 Put the chocolate into a large, heat- proof bowl, then pour the cream into a pan and put on a medium heat until it starts to bubble. Remove the cream from the heat and pour gently and slowly over the chocolate. Whisk the cream and chocolate mixture, until all the chocolate has melted, and the mixture comes together.6 Pour the mixture on top of the tart base, spooning over the last 1 tbsp of marmalade and swirling through when you are done.7 Put the tart in the fridge to set, for at least 3 hours, before slicing and serving. This keeps well in the fridge for 2-3 days.Chocolate jaffa oat barsI will confess that one morning Mandy Mazliah’s ode to jaffa cakes were deemed healthy enough for a breakfast on the hoof. Dairy and refined-sugar free (if you buy vegan chocolate), they will be a hit with big kids and toddlers alike as a snack.Makes 9-12120g oats50g nuts (I used hazelnuts)100g dates, chopped 35ml sunflower oilJuice and zest of 1 orange3 tbsp orange marmalade100g dark chocolate, roughly chopped1 Preheat the oven to 160C/325F/gas mark 3. Grease and line the base of a 20cm-square cake tin.2 Put the oats, nuts, dates, oil, orange juice and zest into a food processor, then pulse until well combined. Spread smoothly over the base of the tin and bake in the oven for 20 minutes, or until firm and golden brown. Remove and allow to cool completely.3 Spread the marmalade over the top of the oat cake. Tip the chocolate into a glass bowl set over (not in) a pan of simmering water, and gently melt. Pour the melted chocolate over the top, allow it to cool slightly then pop it in the fridge to set. If you want to avoid the chocolate cracking, remove the cake from the fridge after 30 minutes or so and cut into squares or bars.Jalapeño lime marmaladeAt first, I followed ColonialCravings’ advice and drizzled this over avocado on toast. Now every meal has become its vehicle.Makes 1 standard jar (about 450g)6 limes1 jalapeño pepper300g sugar2 tbsp cider vinegar900ml water1 Put a small saucer in the freezer. Cut all the skin and pith away from the limes and remove the segments from their membranes. Put the segments and any juice that may have escaped into a large saucepan.2 Halve the jalapeño pepper lengthways and finely slice it, seeds, membrane and all. Add it to the pan with the sugar, then give it a stir. Mix in the vinegar and water and set the pan, uncovered, over a moderate heat. Bring the mixture to the boil and then allow it to bubble away for 45-60 minutes. You can, very carefully, give it a stir every so often. By this time, the volume should have reduced by about half and the colour should have turned slightly more golden.3 Test that it has reached setting point by dropping a teaspoonful on to the chilled saucer. Leave it for a minute and then push your finger through it. If it wrinkles then it has reached setting point. If not, let it bubble for a few minutes more before testing again. Pour the mixture into a warm, sterilised jar and seal.Take part in our next theme, BUTTERMILK!. Upload your ideas: theguardian.com/witness; Send them by email: recipes@theguardian.com; orInstagram @guardian_cook by noon on Wednesday 14 September. Selected recipes will appear in Cook and online on 24 Sep.