Householders who arranged a green deal assessment through a firm called Tivium believing it was part of the government’s official scheme are out of pocket after the firm failed to carry out promised work.The company cold-called customers and made doorstep sales calls offering free home improvements through the green deal scheme ranging from new boilers to solar panels. It said work could only be completed after an assessment report costing £299 upfront.Some of those who signed up complain they never received a report, while others say they are still waiting months later for any sign that work will be carried out and that they have been unable to get a refund.Energy and climate change minister Amber Rudd, says: “This company has never been green-deal authorised and its mis-selling practices are simply unacceptable.”Under the official government scheme, launched in January 2013, householders sign up to the green deal to pay for energy efficiency improvements with a loan repaid through their electricity bills. An initial home assessment typically costs around £120, with work carried out on the promise that annual repayments won’t be more than the savings made from the changes.Pensioners Ann and Barry Denison from Walton, Peterborough, were approached by a Tivium salesperson in May 2014. “We received a knock on the door, and were asked what energy efficient home improvements we’d like,” says Ann. “We said solar panels, and paid for an assessment on the understanding this was the only cost involved and it was part of a government scheme.”The Denisons were promised the work would be completed by December. “We’ve made lots of calls and sent emails to ask for an update, but we’re either cut off, can’t get through, or don’t receive a reply. We’ve requested a refund but heard nothing.”Lilian Wilson, 79, from Darlington, took up Tivium’s offer after a call telling her she could get a new boiler for £299. “A man called round and, as he explained it was a government-backed scheme, I thought nothing could go wrong. And my boiler was playing up at the time,” she says.“I paid by cheque, but after speaking to the family became sceptical of the benefits so cancelled within seven days. I threatened legal proceedings after a refund was initially refused – since then I’ve had letters saying I will get my money back, but have not received a penny,” Wilson says.The Denisons and Wilson both received a refund of the £299 paid to Tivium after the Guardian intervened.Tivium, which is under investigation by Trading Standards and says it stopped accepting customers in October 2014, blames “teething problems” with the green deal scheme for delays in getting work done. It claims it will refund fees to customers who call 0191 5800 321 or email support@tivium.co.uk.The firm failed to respond when asked why it states it is part of the government scheme when it is not an authorised provider. A spokesman says: “We have strived to offer an excellent service in terms of quality of work, timely delivery, professional behaviour and complaint handling.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Check the firm has the green deal quality mark with its individual registration number.Citizens Advice says consumers need to be wary of rogue companies trying to cash in on the green deal scheme to gain work. Gillian Guy, chief executive of Citizens Advice, says: “Some consumers looking to take advantage of the green deal have fallen foul of scammers. Analysis of green deal cases reported to the consumer service in the six months to February 2014 found seven in 10 were about scams.”If you want to apply for an assessment under the official scheme there are a number of accredited firms that provide this. Check the firm has the green deal quality mark with its individual registration number.Guy says: “Keep copies of all the paperwork. If you don’t get the service that you expect, then if you have paid by credit card you could claim the money back from your card provider.”However, for Tivium customers who paid by cheque getting their money back could prove a struggle if the firm fails to pay up.You could take your case to the small claims court, with information on this route available at the Citizens Advice website. The fee for claims of £1,000 or less is on a sliding scale from £35 to £70. But if the company doesn’t have the money to pay, you may still be left out of pocket, and cases can drag on.Alternatively, if a company files for insolvency, you can add your name to the list of creditors with the relevant administrator.Green deal offersThe first phase of the green deal offered householders 25-year loans to pay for energy efficiency measures to be repaid through energy bills.However, you do not have to take out a green deal loan to get energy saving measures installed and claim cashback. In June 2014, the government began offering cashback under the green deal home improvement fund.Householders are able to claim up to £1,000 to install two energy saving improvements such as a new boiler and cavity wall insulation. You can get an extra £500 if you have bought your home in the past year.The work must be done by a registered green deal provider. The measures being installed also need to have been recommended in a green deal assessment or on your energy performance certificate (EPC) within the past two years. You can get £100 towards the cost of an assessment if you install recommended improvements.Before paying for anything, check for any free help or subsidies you are entitled to. Depending on where you live, whether you claim benefits, or live in a property that is difficult to insulate, you may be able to claim free home improvements.Under the energy companies obligation (ECO) scheme, the big energy companies have to offer free cavity wall and/or loft insulation to certain homes. Also, many local authorities can make grants available to local residents to help them pay for energy efficient measures.You can contact the Energy Saving Advice Service on 0300 123 1234 to find out what options are available to help fund improvements. You may be able to apply for free assistance without going through the green deal scheme. Scottish households seeking home energy efficiency advice should contact Home Energy Scotland on 0808 808 2282.