The tangy freshness of feta, along with its satisfying, crumbly texture, means it’s a reliable and versatile fridge stalwart – a humble ingredient with transformative prowess that can effortlessly elevate a dish. I usually have a packet on the go, either unopened and ready to be broken over grainy salads or roasted roots, or marinated with window-box rosemary, thyme and lemon zest and kept in a jar for impromptu dipping into. My absolute favourite way with the fresh, briny cheese is tumbled with earthy spinach and wild herbs and encased in olive oil-laden layers of golden, flaking filo. In Greece we brought fresh spanakopita from the bakery every day, and took it down to the water’s edge with a brown paper bag filled with explosively ripe tomatoes. A mouthful of the ever-so-slightly-sheepy feta pie, followed by one of juicy, sweet tomato made for a perfect picnic.The winning recipe: Feta cheesecakeFaye Cooke’s idea of using feta in a baked cheesecake is inspired, because its salty sharpness works so well with the sweetness of this dessert. It hits all the spots: salt, sweet, creamy and sharp – a bit like salted caramel – with a satisfying texture. . The beauty of this is that any seasonal fruit topping would work well, so experiment with what you have in.Serves 8-10150g digestive biscuits, crushedA pinch of salt 1 tsp black sesame seeds50g butter, melted200g feta250g cream cheese2 eggsZest of 1 lemon160g caster sugar2 nectarines, plums or peaches100g raspberries 1 tbsp lemon juice20g unsalted butter 1 sprig thyme, leaves picked1 Line a 20cm springform cake tin with greaseproof paper. Put the biscuit crumbs into a bowl with the salt and sesame seeds and mix in the melted butter until well combined. Press the mixture into the bottom of the cake tin, evening out with the back of a spoon, and put in the fridge while you prepare the filling.2 Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4. In a mixing bowl, break down the feta using a fork. Whisk in the cream cheese, eggs, lemon zest and 85g of the sugar. Put the tin on a baking sheet, pour the filling on to the crust and give it a tap to even it out. Bake in the middle of the oven for 40 minutes, or until almost set.3 Meanwhile, slice the stone fruit and put the pieces in a roasting tray with the raspberries, lemon juice and remaining sugar. Flake over the unsalted butter, cover with foil and set aside. When the cheesecake has 15 minutes left, put the roasting tin on the bottom shelf of the oven.4 Remove the cheesecake and fruit from the oven. Let them cool slightly. Carefully transfer the cheesecake to a plate. Lift the fruit from its juice and spoon on top of the cheesecake. Pour over 1 tbsp the juice, then chill the rest.5 Scatter over the thyme leaves. Serve with the reserved juice from the fruits.Honeyed feta and oregano filo parcelsLauren Kisby’s sweet little parcels are fantastic because they work as a snack, starter, cheese course or dessert - so rather a versatile dish to add to your cooking arsenal. I used olive oil rather than melted butter, as Lauren does for the filo, and baked rather than fried these. Don’t worry if any of the filling escapes - I scraped the crispy browned bits off the baking tray and served them along with the parcels, which went down very well with my testers. I can imagine a little chopped toasted hazelnut working well in the feta mixture too.Serves 4200g feta3 tbsp honey3 big pinches fresh oregano, finely chopped1 pack of ready-made filo pastrySalt and black pepper, to season30ml extra virgin olive oilToasted sesame seeds, for garnishing1 Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4. Put the feta in a bowl and break up slightly with a fork. Add 2 tbsp of honey and chopped oregano and mix well. Season to taste. If the feta has got a little warm in the mixing process, cover and put in the fridge until cool, so it’s easier to portion up.2 Remove the pastry from the box. Take one sheet (cover the remainder with a damp cloth to prevent drying) and cut it into thirds with a sharp knife. Brush one third with olive oil, layer and repeat until you have a strip 3 sheets thick.3 Take about a dessertspoonful of the cool feta mixture and put it on to one end of the pastry strip, leaving enough space around it to paint it with a little olive oil. Fold one corner of pastry over the filling, lining it up with the edge of the strip, to start a triangle shape, and press it down to seal in the filling. Then, following the edges of the pastry, continue painting, wrapping over the pastry and sealing in the filling, creating a triangular parcel. Repeat until all the mixture is used up. Set aside on a lined baking tray, covering with a damp cloth as you go.4 When ready to cook, paint the parcels with olive oil and scatter with the sesame seeds. Bake in the oven for 15-20 minutes, or until golden and crisp. Serve immediately, drizzled with a little more honey.Leftover lamb, feta and chard parcelsHannah Madden’s parcels combine three very happy bedfellows in lamb, chard and feta – the feta adding a freshness and zing to the other ingredients. She discovered the combination as an idea to use up leftover lamb, but this could also work without the meat as a sort of spanakopita.Serves 4-6300g leftover cooked lamb 300g chard or spinach150g fetaA handful of mint leavesBlack pepperHalf a 220g pack of filo pastry sheetsOlive oil1 If you are using slow-cooked lamb, such as shoulder, shred it with two forks. You could finely cube a roast lamb leg too. Wash the chard and chop the stalks into 1cm pieces then roughly shred the leaves.2 Blanch the chard stalks for a minute in a little water, then add the leaves for another minute. Drain in a colander and run cold water over them to stop them cooking. Squeeze the chard against the colander and leave to drain.3 Crumble the feta, roughly chop the mint and combine in a bowl with the lamb and chard. Season with black pepper – you’re unlikely to need salt.4 Working with one sheet of pastry at time, cut each one into thirds lengthways so you have a few long strips. Lightly brush one sheet with olive and lay a second sheet on top and repeat. Take about a dessertspoonful of the lamb and feta mixture and put it on one end of the pastry strip, leaving enough space around it to paint it with a little olive oil. Fold one corner of pastry over the filling, lining it up with the other edge of the strip, to start a triangle shape, fold over the other edge and press it down to seal in the filling.5 Put the parcels on a greased baking sheet with the join underneath, then brush the surface with more oil.6 Bake for about 20 minutes in medium oven – about 180C/350F/gas mark 4 – until they are golden. Serve with a tomato salad, tzatziki and olives.Hot feta dipJane Lister, I love the simplicity of this dip, which is somewhere between a romesco sauce and baked feta. The fruity, sweet-sharp pepper works wonderfully with the punch of the feta, the whole thing underpinned by garlic and a healthy buzz of chilli. This would be perfect with little baked pitta crackers, but, as we discovered when testing the recipes, is also lovely with the lamb, feta and filo parcels dipped in!Makes 1 sharing bowl 4-5 sun-dried tomatoes2 skinned red peppersA small garlic clove, crushed1 tbsp olive oilA pinch of dried chilli flakesSalt and black pepper200g feta cheeseA handful of chopped coriander, to serve1 Set the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4. Liquidise all the ingredients (except the feta and coriander), adding 1 tbsp hot water to a make sauce. Crumble the feta into a small, shallow ovenproof dish and pour the sauce on top.2 Put in hot oven for 5-10 minutes, until the cheese is warmed through. Sprinkle with the coriander. Serve with crusty bread to dip.Late summer tartineMehrunnisa Yusuf’s recipe is a love letter to a salad eaten at Eagle Mountain in Arizona, where strawberries, spinach, candied walnuts and feta made for a delightful and unexpected combination. I loved the lemon-laced whipped feta on toasted sourdough and will be using that as a base for many a seasonal tartine.Makes 1250g feta Olive oil (preferably mild and fruity)Zest of 1 lemon A thick slice of sourdough 1 tbsp honey 50g sliced strawberries, peaches or nectarines A handful of toasted walnut halves, for garnishing A sprig of fresh mint1 Whip the feta in a food processor with 1 tbsp or so of olive oil. Transfer to a bowl or jar, then fold the lemon zest into the whipped feta.2 Toast a thick slice of sourdough. Spread liberally with the whipped feta. Pile the fruit on top and drizzle with honey. I like to use something mild and on the sweeter side like a lavender honey as this amplifies the sweet-salty balance. Garnish with some toasted walnut halves and finely chopped mint.3 You can store any leftover feta in the fridge, topped with olive oil, to keep it fresh.Feta and watercress frittataJustine Wall’s use of watercress in this recipe harks back to her time living on a farm where she could pick it fresh from the bed, and the peppery leaf gives this brunchy favourite an elegance that makes it more than suited for supper, too.Serves 4 1 tbsp olive oil1 tbsp salted butter1 white onion, peeled, finely chopped1 small garlic clove, grated 10-12 new baby potatoes, boiled, drained, sliced in half and set aside1 red pepper, finely chopped150g feta cheese, cut into cubesA large handful of watercress leaves, choppedSalt and black pepper, to season A few sprigs fresh oregano, finely chopped4 eggs, beatenA large handful of grated parmesan1 Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4. Heat the oil and butter in a large frying pan until frothy. Add the onion and garlic. Fry for 8 minutes.2 Add the halved boiled potatoes and the red pepper, and fry gently for a further 2 minutes. Add the feta cubes and chopped watercress, the salt, pepper and oregano, followed by the eggs. Shake the pan to ensure everything is easily distributed. Keep on a medium heat for 1 minute, then top with grated parmesan.3 Transfer to the preheated oven for 10 minutes, or until set but golden brown on top. Leave to settle for 5 minutes, then tip out of the pan, slice and serve.Dale Berning is away.