If there is one measure of how far Washington has come since the turn of the century, it is on the dinner plate.“Everyone joked about it being the worst food in the country,” muses Erik Holzherr, a New Yorker who opened Washington’s first cocktail bar eight years ago. “But I had friends visit from Paris recently and they said how much they love the food. It’s been an amazing change.”This week Washington’s culinary and cultural awakening gained fresh impetus when it became the fourth US city to be the subject of a Michelin Guide, joining heavyweights New York, San Francisco and Chicago. Michelin announced that it has deployed its anonymous inspectors to test the city’s burgeoning restaurant scene for a book to be published in October.Such talk would have been laughable in the days when the US capital was dominated by one trade – politics – plagued by crime, and bitterly divided by class and race. Muriel Bowser, mayor of DC, told the Guardian: “The restaurant scene mirrors a lot of what’s happened in Washington DC. There’s been a real renaissance. Where in the 80s we were losing population, now we add a net of a thousand people every month in DC. We had a tougher business environment then, and now we go out of our way to make it easy for restaurants to open and operate and hire a great team.”Washington is now said be the second-fastest gentrifying city in the country after Portland, Oregon. Millennials are driving growth, giving DC an average age lower than many American cities. And yet, as so often, development is uneven and has come with its own price as neighborhoods turn younger, wealthier and whiter, displacing longterm businesses and residents.When Martin Luther King Jr was shot dead in Memphis in 1968, a spark was thrown into the Washington tinderbox. Stanley Mayes was 18. He recalled: “I was standing there when Stokely Carmichael made statements that captured the emotions following the assassination. Some people acted out. I think it was more frustration than any planned aggression.”Five days of riots and looting destroyed businesses and homes that were not rebuilt. As the middle class fled to the suburbs, areas in the neighborhood of Columbia Heights, on the U Street corridor, and along H Street in the north-east quadrant were allowed to decay, with drug dealers and sex workers filling the gap. By 1991, the political capital of America had also become the murder capital with the killing of 482 people, most of them black.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Masa 14 on Washington DC’s 14th Street. Photograph: Goran KosanovicMayes, 66, who is African American, said: “We went through a long time like Dresden after the bombing with the state of disrepair of the community. It was decimated and there was a lot of population erosion, homes boarded up and hulks of buildings lying fallow.”Co-owner of Divine Shine, a shoe repair shop, Mayes credits the late and longtime mayor Marion Barry for helping to turn the situation around on U Street, notably with the Reeves Center, a local government office building that aimed to boost development and create jobs in the “riot corridor”. “Now it’s a great street that’s recovered to what it was before the riot, a great urban street with commerce overflowing.”Along with local fixture Ben’s Chili Bowl, a thriving restaurant scene has grown, especially after the financial crisis. In 2009 restaurateur Richard Sandoval was among the first to take a chance on 14th Street by opening Masa 14, offering Latin-Asian fusion against a “hip backdrop”.Sandoval said: “I’d been hearing about a lot of plans for new apartment buildings. I was scared. I thought the first couple of years would be challenging, but it took off from the get-go. Now there are a lot more restaurants, more competition, which pushes the standards higher.”Sandoval now owns four restaurants in Washington. “You never heard much about it; you always heard about New York, San Francisco and Chicago. But it’s developed tremendously over the last 10 years.”He believes Masa 14 chef Ryan Ratino is “phenomenal” and has the “calibre” for a Michelin star.Yet 14th Street used to be very different. Greg Selfridge, a property developer, can remember driving there after sunset. “It used to be the area where ladies of the night plied their trade. It’s completely different from what you would see today.”He added: “DC is just a much cooler place to live these days. The bar scene, the restaurant scene. People are now taking it for granted, but having grown up here I still shake my head in disbelief at the changes I’ve seen and how quickly they happened. DC has had a real coming out in the last eight years and the Michelin Guide is the exclamation point at the end of it. You can’t get much cooler than that.”Indeed, it is all a far cry from the days when Washington was disparagingly described – in a line often attributed to John F Kennedy – as “a city of southern efficiency and northern charm”. It was founded in 1790 but the population did not take off until the start of the civil war and again after each world war, hitting an all-time peak of 802,000 in 1950.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fiola Mare on the Georgetown waterfront. Photograph: The Washington Post/Getty ImagesThe mid-20th century also marked the start of white flight to the suburbs. In just two decades, the white population fell by more than 300,000. Black people were in the majority by the late 1950s and, by 1980, made up 70% of the total. But that proportion fell to 61% in 2000 and 51% in 2010. In recent years increasing numbers of young white, Latino and Asian professionals have moved in. The total population stands at 672,228.Washington’s development also received boosts from the opening of the Metro underground railway and Kennedy Center in the 1970s and the continued expansion of the federal government under successive administrations, attracting more and more workers in need of amenities and services. The local economy has diversified to include hi-tech, hospitality and venture capital sectors, and Washington is attracting record numbers of tourists.Holzherr came to Washington in 2001 and fell in love with the place. In 2008 he opened a cocktail bar, Wisdom, in the long neglected south-east of the city. “I saw the gentrification and change happening in that area,” the 38-year-old explained. “It was dramatic and had a lot of excitement, but it was a rough start.”Holzher then opened a bar on H Street, another area striving to be reborn after being gutted in1968. Three of his staff got held up at gunpoint and, for a time, new businesses outpaced new residents. But accommodation is catching up, and Holzher has since added another bar, Church & State, complete with pews and stained glass windows.“Living in the city is hip again,” he said. “The architecture and history you have in DC are special. This is the closest I could get to Paris without leaving.”With gentrification comes inflation, however. Holzher added: “The prices have jumped so quickly it’s scary. Even for my business it’s been rough. In the south-east we build up regulars, a lot of people in politics, but a lot got pushed out. I’ve seen that in every city I’ve lived in, but what’s dramatic is that it’s happened so quickly. You see the price of houses going up 100% in two years.”Among Church & State’s local patrons is Kelly Carnes, a publicist who bought a house on H Street six years ago on her father’s advice. She said: “There were about four bars then; the last time I counted it was over 30.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Church and State. Photograph: PRFor young professionals such as Carnes, it is an attractive place to live compared to Washington’s older and more staid, buttoned-up suburbs. “H Street has true grit and people who like to start conversations with a bit more than, ‘Where do you work?’ Instead of asking, ‘What do you do’, they ask, ‘What do you like to do?’”It is also, she remarked succinctly, “hipster Zion”.But Carnes, 31, acknowledged that there are downsides. “Gentrifrication is definitely something every city is struggling with. You want to maintain the historic culture that makes a place special. We’ve built relations with our community. It’s on everyone’s minds in terms of being true to the spirit of the place they’re inhabiting.“I know it’s part of the growing pains of any development like this. There is good and bad and all you can do is be part of the good.”The unintended consequences of Washington’s growth gained media attention last year when Latosha Jackson-Martin posted a sign outside her father’s 50-year-old hair salon in Bloomingdale. “Due to ‘gentrification’ and mixed emotions Jak and Company Hairdressers will be closing,” it said.For the best past of a quarter century, the Washington Post reported, the store on Rhode Island Avenue had been surrounded by a laundromat, a uniform business and liquor stores with plexiglas windows. But by the time it closed, it was “nestled between a pub with an extensive whiskey and scotch menu, a gourmet bakery and a Mexican restaurant that sells cucumber margaritas”.Leah Hendey, senior research associate at the Urban Institute think tank, said displacement is difficult to measure and in some cases home owners may benefit by selling at higher prices. But gentrification is far from uniform, she noted. “The prosperity gains in DC have not been felt equally. East of the Anacostia river, average family incomes are below 1980 levels. A lot of people are struggling.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Goat cheese at Masa 14. Photograph: Goran Kosanovic