Staging an outdoor promenade show in the Lake District requires not only considerable chutzpah but a lot of weather-proofing. “All performers are rehearsing both with an umbrella and without,” says Geraldine Pilgrim, nervously tramping around in her walking boots and a cagoule, days before her new first-world-war-inspired show, Flight, is due to open in the gardens of Brockhole by Windermere.“I knew it could get quite wet up here, but I’ve never before had to deal with this extent of rain.” She looks up at the darkening sky and grimaces. “I’m going to have to pray for good weather.” One of Flight’s first scenes features a group of Edwardian ladies on the front lawn in pristine white dresses: will their elegance be dashed if their delicate parasols and dainty shoes are swapped for brollies and wellies?Londoner Pilgrim was not perhaps the most obvious artist to be chosen to develop a site-specific theatre piece set by Windermere inspired by aviation. She initially thought so, too, when approached by 14-18 NOW, the major cultural programme taking place across the United Kingdom to mark the centenary of the first world war. “They asked me to respond to the word ‘flight’ as well as the site, but not only am I really petrified of flying but I’d never even been to the Lake District. But I’ve fallen in love with the place. I’m telling everyone I know, ‘You have to come up. It’s just beautiful.’”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Waiting for sons, brothers and lovers to return … a scene from Flight Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianPilgrim decided to take the commission after discovering the Royal Flying Corps was known as the Suicide Club because the average time these young men were in the air before being shot down, killed or missing in action was 11 days. The shock of this knowledge and the young lives wasted led to the main theme of Flight: women waiting for their sons, brothers, fathers, cousins or lovers to return.Pilgrim is known for her extensive research and collaborations with large groups of volunteer performers: her last show, Well, took place in an abandoned pharmaceutical factory in east London. For Flight, she is working with people from Westmorland Croquet Club, Burneside Brass Band, Kendal Homing Pigeon Society, the Ambleside Women’s Institute, RAF air cadets, the sea cadets and Ashton Theatre Factory in Barrow.Brockhole, home to the Lake District visitor centre, is known by children as having one of the best playgrounds in Britain. The name of the complex comes from the rather run-down house at the centre of it, built in the Arts and Crafts style in 1897 for William Henry Adolphus Gaddum, a silk merchant from Manchester, who wanted a summer house in the newly fashionable Lake District. Modern visitors are not usually allowed access to the house, other than to the cafe and gift shop. But Pilgrim’s team have been carrying out a shoestring renovation of the once glorious upstairs rooms, which have been wasting away as conference and storage rooms in recent years.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Everyone has rehearsed with and without umbrellas’ … Geraldine Pilgrim. Photograph: Martin Godwin for the GuardianThe show’s prelude starts outside the house, transformed into an airport for the weekend. Visitors will be given red or blue stickers before being ushered into Brockhole for a tour around a temporary museum dedicated to the history of flight. After 15 minutes or so, they will be taken down to the glorious terrace, where the show proper begins with those hopefully unsoggy Edwardian ladies on the lawn.It would spoil the fun to give too much away. Suffice to say that the audience will be taken around Brockhole’s spectacular grounds and down to the shores of Windermere, where they will encounter everything from a field hospital to Nissen huts, an officers’ mess with places set for 24 but just one surviving diner, and a drill parade. The latter is performed by the northern wing of the Royal air cadets, based in Blackpool. “It’s completely beautiful. It’s like choreographed ballet,” says Pilgrim. At one point, the audience will see parachutes suspended in the trees, a macabre reminder of the reconnaissance balloonists, the first service personnel to be allowed the luxury of abandoning their aircraft with any hope of survival. The first generation of first world war pilots were not allowed parachutes, says Pilgrim, “because the powers-that-be thought it would encourage them to abandon their planes, which would be too expensive”. The ultimate message of Flight is bleak, she admits. “We need to show that in the first world war pretty much everybody died.”  We need to show that in the first world war, pretty much everyone died There is no dialogue: in many scenes the action is frozen, creating a series of living portraits rather than a conventional play.For several months, Pilgrim’s team have been trawling Cumbria in search of their 110-strong community cast. When we spoke last week, Pilgrim was still two short: she needed one more 1920s dancer and another pilot.It’s a fairly big-budget extravaganza, despite employing just one professional actor. The show is funded with a £130,000 grant, supplemented with £18,000 raised from other sources. The production could have done with a bit more cash, she says: “It’s not a lot for a show on this scale. Really we need £200,000.” After three days of performances this weekend, a free installation trail based on the show will be open from 11 to 17 July.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   History of flight … Amy Johnson, the aviation pioneer Photograph: PASome of the volunteers play real people, including the Hull-born pilot, Amy Johnson. David Marshall, who runs a shop selling honey in Grasmere, will embody Thomas Mawson, who designed Brockhole’s splendid gardens. Marshall, an amateur actor with the Ambleside Players, is taking his role very seriously, and has grown a magnificent moustache for the part. “The challenge will be conveying Mawson’s thoughts without words and without overacting,” he says. Some volunteers were allowed to choose their own parts. Robbie Di Vito, an art student at Lancaster University down the coast in Lancashire, was desperate to play a 16th-century character based on Leonardo da Vinci. He will embody the early dreamers who believed man would one day be able to fly. His turn will last just two minutes and 20 seconds, but he will perform it 10 times a day. (There are five shows daily and in each, the audience is split into two groups who do the tour simultaneously in opposite directions.) He plans to use his Italian background to aid his performance. “I will talk to myself in Italian. I can use my language skills to get in the zone,” he says. One of the Edwardian ladies on the front lawn is played by retired model Susan Johnson. Living in the village of Dent, near the border with North Yorkshire, Johnson is used to rain, but is slightly concerned about retaining her composure on the slanting lawn in poor weather. “We are sitting having a picnic on the slope and getting up quickly and elegantly could be quite tricky,” she says.• Flight is at Brockhole on Windermere, 8-10 July, preview 7 July.