VogueOn the cover: Cara Delevingne, who has featured on three out of the past four British Vogue September issues. Cara is “shawling” – wearing off-the-shoulder – a Balenciaga anorak (£1,615).Weight: 1.22kg.Your autumn-winter look: Tweed meets velvet meets military. Think “Victoriana space princess who’s a little into S&M”. Bear in mind that “heavy officer coats styled over silky negligees, gold lamé dresses and belted waists salute a wartime sweetheart from days gone by”.Key styling tip: Wear a waterproof grandly off the shoulder. (See: Cara on the cover.) “Head to the waterproof and windproof section of Millets ...How you wear it: unzipped to the sternum, falling off your shoulders.”Tracksuit-trouser count: Adidas Originals £45 side-stripe tracksuit bottoms appear no fewer than five times. Vetements’ £580 version, once.Celebrity quote: Cara Delevingne: “Having been with both men and women,I know that women are amazing and complicated and confusing and you never know where you stand and it constantly keeps you on your toes. Men are easier to figure out.”Soundbite: “Chickpea meringue might look brown but it tastes just as good as the real thing.”Cheap trick: For the Christopher Kane catwalk look, you can buy a three-pack of clear rain bonnets for £6 from Amazon.Scene-stealer: Get Off My Dick T-shirt, sadly uncredited.What to eat for breakfast: The OMG Syringe Shot mini-boost of flaxseed oil, cannabis oil and grapefruit, from vegan restaurant Farmacy, £5.Love      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Love, September 2016 issue, with Margot Robbie.On the cover: Two alternative covers, featuring Cara Delevingne and her Suicide Squad co-star Margot Robbie. Inside, the two actors interview each other. Cara kicks off by proceedings by announcing she is off for a “nervous wee”.Weight: 2.04kg.Your autumn-winter look: Goths and toffs. Editor-in-Chief Katie Grand writes, “this issue is part goth (Echo and the Bunnymen, represented by Panos [Yiapanis, Love’s Fashion Director]) and part toff (every precocious mid-Eighties teenager, represented by me).”Key styling tip: An expensive coat falling off one or both shoulders. Adriana Lima demonstrates with a cotton peacoat by Christian Dior, Dree Hemingway with a black velvet Prada cape.Tracksuit-trouser count: One pair of embellished velour by Juicy Couture.Celebrity quote: Cara and Margot discussing the names under which Prince Harry is stored in their phones: Hazza, PH (for Prince Harry), HP (for Harry, Prince).Soundbite: Poppy Delevingne is listed on the masthead as Editor of Unicorns.Cheap trick: White cotton Calvin Klein underpants feature prominently in a Bruce Weber shoot.Scene-stealer: Cindy Crawford turns make-up artist and hairstylist, prepping her Palace T-shirt-wearing daughter Kaia Gerber for a shoot styled by Kendall Jenner.What to eat for breakfast: Poppy Delevingne and her personal trainer once shared a bottle of rum “in between jumping jacks, mixed in with our protein shakes, which was the weirdest/best experience”.Elle      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Elle, with Kristen Stewart.On the cover: Kristen Stewart, Zayn Malik, Amandla Stenberg and Hari Nef. A roster of Hot Rebels.Weight: 96g.Your autumn-winter look: Deep frills, modern gothic, sportswear, velvet suiting, stomper heels.Key styling tip: Wear your sporty jacket falling off your shoulder. Try a bottle-green £76 nylon Urban Outfitters padded jacket “shawled” to reveal a Christopher Kane sweatshirt.Tracksuit-trouser count: One pair of Adidas side-stripe, one pair of Urban Outfitters side-stripe.Celebrity quote: “I have three nipples,” reveals Ethan Hawke.Soundbite: This season’s hero is “a woman from the city who takes an Uber across town to frequent the secret club in the basement of a sex shop”. She is “allergic to crystals and thinks sequins are naff The return of lurex? Another story.”.Cheap trick: A white cotton Calvin Klein bra top, £30.Scene-stealer: Zayn Malik’s new, frowny, serious pop star face is well cute.What to eat for breakfast: Cover star Kristen Stewart drinks iced coffee with her interviewer.Porter      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Porter, with Edita Vilkeviciute.On the cover: Model Edita Vilkeviciute in Prada coat, shawled with a kitten clutched to her breast.Weight: 85g.Your autumn-winter look: Super-luxe decadent aristo-groupie bohemianFor instance, velvet boots: “Nothing says exuberance like footwear in a fabric long association with nobility and after-dark glamour”.Key styling tip: Make like cover star Edita and wear all your clothes – from a Burberry coat to a Dior dress – unbuttoned to reveal a shoulder. “The oversized overcoat will be your go-to piece this fall thanks to its 1980s proportions.”Tracksuit-trouser count: Barely in evidence. Instead, designer Haider Ackermann sings the praises of tight trousers and high heels. “Standing straight – there is a real strength to that.”Celebrity quote: Winona Ryder on films: “Movies are all big franchise superhero things. And I’m 44 – I don’t think anyone wants to put a cape on me and chuck me out of the window!I don’t know how good my bone density is.”Soundbite: “When I practise my ballet steps, I motivate myself by always looking up, as if to the second balcony, where I imagine Nureyev to be sitting.”Cheap trick: Take a tip from the Bruce Weber shoot and use kids’ plastic toy cars, the kind that live in backyards, as props. Much cheaper than sports cars.Scene-stealer: A dead heat between the cover kitten and a rug, made from the skin of Marchesa Luisa Casati’s pet cheetah, which features prominently in a shoot featuring her descendants.What to eat for breakfast: Take a tip from Amanda Lear, who recalls summers with her soulmate Salvador Dalí in the 70s: “Breakfast would be served to me in bed by the maid, Rosa (who was always dressed in pink), with a hand-written note from Dali saying what the plan for the day was, and a little gift [such as] a sprig of jasmine or a scarab beetle.”Glamour      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Glamour, with Chloë Grace Moretz.On the cover: Actor Chloë Grace Moretz in Gucci.Weight: 52g.Your autumn-winter look: Style a velvet suit with a lace blouse. “Opt for a sheer blouse and a flash of skin to break up the look and avoid tipping into the gothic.”Key styling tip: Glamour has sourced the shawl look off-the-peg on the high street: Asos has an off-the-shoulder double-breasted suit jacket for £65, with matching trousers for £55.Tracksuit-trouser count: One pair of F&F (£18), one pair of Urban Outfitters (£32), one pair of Lacoste (£220).Celebrity quote: “Invest in a cosmic blackboard. I have a blackboard in my kitchen where any visitor can write down their dreams, as serious or fun as they desire,” shares columnist Fearne Cotton.Soundbite: At Burning Man, “we stumbled across a ‘hug deli’ where I ordered a bear hug with a side of spank – painful!”Cheap trick: Gigi Hadid recommends buying Crealine h20 makeup remover, available in French pharmacies for around a tenner. Or go all-out with a cotton waist corset, £69 from Corset Story, to be worn over your coat a la Prada catwalk.Scene-stealer: Victoria Beckham, whose “epic life advice” features heavily in the CGM interview (and is trailed on the cover).What to eat for breakfast: Model Alessandra Ambrosio makes “eggs and avocado” for herself and her children.