The lunches, the parties, the hangovers … Christmas is wonderful, but the cost can add up. If, on the way to a festive drinks party, you’ve ever ducked into a corner shop and found yourself scouring the shelves for a generous-looking but not too expensive gift (seriously, who buys those dusty £45 bottles of Bollinger?), you’ll know that while leaving things to the last minute does contain a not-unenjoyable frisson of risk, you will pay for it. However, gift-giving doesn’t have to be so frenzied: there is a slower way of doing things.People are always happy to receive homemade presents. These gifts cost a fraction of their shop-bought equivalents – even more so if you stash away old glass jars throughout the year – but that’s not the only reason to make them. The trick is to take pleasure in the pace. Good things come to those who wait.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Orangettes … candied orange peel dipped in chocolate (and a saving of about 400% on some shop-bought versions).OrangettesCandied peel costs next to nothing to make … and only takes an evening.Cost (per 150g): £1.90 homemade v £8.50 at Hotel ChocolatMakes about 300g4 navel oranges1kg sugar150g chocolate (minimum 60% cocoa)1 Quarter the oranges and remove the flesh so you are just left with the peel and some pith. Slice each peel quarter into 5mm strips. Put the strips in a pan and cover them with water. Bring the pan to the boil, then simmer for 10 minutes.2 Drain away the water, and cover the peel slices again with fresh water – changing the water in this way gets rid of any bitterness. Bring to the boil again and simmer for 30 minutes, keeping an eye on the water level and popping a lid on the pan if it is evaporating too fast.The best cookbooks and kitchen tools 2016 | Cook shelf of fame 3 Drain the slices, but this time keep the water. Decant it into a measuring jug, then pour it back into the pan: for every 100ml of liquid, add 100g of sugar. Put the sugary water over a very gentle heat and once the sugar has dissolved (you can give it a helping hand by stirring) add the peel. Simmer for about 45 minutes or so, until the peel has gone translucent.4 Allow the peel to cool in the pan while you heat the oven to its lowest setting. Lay the peel evenly on a tray lined with baking parchment, and dry in the oven for 30 minutes.5 Remove the peel from the oven, sprinkle over some more sugar and gently toss to coat.6 Break the chocolate into chunks and melt in a heatproof bowl over a pan of simmering water. Leave to cool slightly, then dunk half of each orangette into the chocolate.7 Leave to cool on baking parchment in the fridge. Keeps for a month in a sealed container.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Salted caramel florentines: tick all the festive boxes.Salted caramel florentinesFlorentines make the perfect stocking filler, ticking all the festive boxes: fruity, nutty and chocolatey. These have the unnecessary but brilliant addition of salted caramel. As a postprandial pick-me-up, they’re hard to beat – we can always find room for one or three.Cost (per 8 units): £2.50 homemade v £7.50 at Melrose & MorganMakes 14-16For the salted caramel30g unsalted butter50g soft light brown sugar2 heaped tbsp golden syrup1 tbsp double cream½ tsp sea salt For the florentines60g flaked almonds50g salted pistachios50g dried or glacé cherries1 tbsp plain flour100-150g milk cooking chocolate, broken up into chunks1 Preheat the oven to 160C/325F/gas mark 3 and line 2 baking trays with greaseproof paper.2 Mix the nuts, cherries and flour together in a bowl.3 Put the butter, sugar and syrup in a saucepan over a low heat for 4-5 minutes until everything melts, stirring occasionally. Once the mixture is bubbling gently, remove from the heat and stir in the cream, then return to the heat and cook for another 3 minutes. Add the salt and stir to combine. Mix in the dry ingredients.4 Put 4 heaped teaspoonfuls of the mixture on each lined baking tray, allowing them as much space as you can – they will spread a lot. Flatten slightly and make sure each teaspoonful has an equalish amount of nuts and caramel to bind it together.5 Set a timer and bake for around 12 minutes, keeping a close eye on them. They will start to spread out quickly – if this looks like it’s happening too much, take them out, allow them to cool for a moment, then gently poke back into a rough circle, before popping back in the oven. Depending on your oven and where it’s hottest, you may also need to turn or switch the trays round during cooking.6 Remove from the oven, leave to cool slightly then poke back into shape. Once they are firm, transfer to a wire rack and leave to cool completely. Repeat until all the mixture is used up.7 Melt the chocolate in a heatproof bowl set over a pan of barely simmering water, making sure the water doesn’t touch the base of the bowl.8 Brush the undersides of the cooled and hardened florentines with the melted chocolate. Put in the fridge until set, then brush on another layer of chocolate: it’s Christmas, after all. They’ll keep for up to a week in a sealed container in the fridge.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Marrons glacés: take a while. but very easy to make.Marrons glacésThese take a few days but require minimal exertion. You can use fresh chestnuts, but cooked are easier to find, and at a similar price to fresh ones, so this recipe skips the boiling and peeling stage.Cost (per 200g): £2.50 homemade v £18.00+ at Venchi Makes about 400g500g sugar400g peeled, cooked chestnuts1 Put the sugar in a pan with 500ml water. Bring to the boil very gently, stirring often at the beginning to dissolve the sugar, then simmer for 10 minutes. Add the chestnuts and simmer gently for a further 10 minutes. Leave the chestnuts in the syrup in the pan to cool completely.2 The next day, or a few hours later, very slowly bring the mixture to a simmer for no more than a minute. Allow the chestnuts to cool completely in the pan.3 Repeat this process over the next few days until most of the syrup has been absorbed, then put on a wire rack to drain. If you still have a lot of liquid after the chestnuts have been simmered 4 or 5 times, remove them from the syrup with a slotted spoon.4 Leave to dry overnight or for a few hours in the oven, at its lowest setting and with the door propped open. Store the chestnuts individually wrapped in recycled toffee wrappers or in little parcels of greaseproof paper.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Blackberry vinegar: ‘zhoosh’ up a salad on the cheap.Blackberry vinegarIf you haven’t been bothering the hedgerows, don’t worry – forage in the frozen aisle instead. This fruity vinegar is perfect for zhooshing up salads.Cost (per 200ml): £1.29 homemade v £7.85 by WomersleyMakes about 700ml300g frozen blackberries500ml cider or white wine vinegar175g caster sugar1 Put the blackberries in a large bowl or container and leave to defrost. Mash slightly, then pour in the vinegar, mix together, cover and leave to sit in a cool place for 5-7 days.2 Strain the mixture through a sieve placed over a bowl. Put the infused vinegar in a saucepan, add the sugar and bring to the boil, stirring occasionally to help it dissolve. Leave to cool, then sieve again to get rid of any foamy bits, and decant into a sterilised bottle. Store in a cool, dark place until needed. It should keep for a couple of months.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Orange and cranberry curd: great on toast on Christmas morning. Photograph: Ola O Smit for the GuardianOrange and cranberry curdWinter food can be heavy, but citrus brings welcome freshness. This curd is best consumed within a few days, so it’s perfect for making at the last minute, and would make a suitably celebratory breakfast spread on hot toast.Cost (per 200g): £2.20 homemade v £6.45 at Fortnum & MasonMakes about 500gJuice and zest of 2 large or 3 medium oranges (about 150ml)75ml pure cranberry juice with no added sugar220g caster sugar100g cold unsalted butter, chopped into cubes3 large eggs1 Put the juices, zest, sugar and butter into a heatproof bowl over a pan filled with a few centimetres of water, over a medium-low heat. Stir together to combine as the sugar and butter melt. In a separate bowl, whisk the eggs together.2 Remove the first bowl from the heat. When the contents are warm but not piping hot (you don’t want to make scrambled eggs), add the whisked eggs by pushing them through a sieve. Mix together, then return the bowl to the pan over the heat and cook until thickened, stirring occasionally – you might want to increase the heat a little. It could take up to 20 minutes to thicken.3 When the curd is thick enough to coat the back of a spoon, remove the bowl and leave to cool, then transfer to sterilised jars and chill until needed. It will keep for a week in the fridge.Caroline Craig and Sophie Missing are authors of The Little Book of Lunch (Square Peg, £20)