David Bowie’s son Duncan Jones has announced that he is to become a father, sending a heartfelt message to the late rock star. In a touching message about his father, who died of cancer a month ago, 44-year-old Jones tweeted the news. A hand-drawn cartoon of a baby with an umbilical cord protruding from its stomach and a speech bubble with the words “I’m waiting” accompanied the message.Duncan Jones (@ManMadeMoon)1 month since dad died today. Made this card for him at Christmas. Due in June. Circle of life. Love you, granddad. pic.twitter.com/sf7SEUtm64February 10, 2016The Bafta award-winning director of Moon is Bowie’s eldest child, and the only child from the pop star’s 10-year marriage to his first wife, Angie, who was recently a contestant in Celebrity Big Brother. Jones has been estranged from his mother for nearly 30 years. He is married to photographer Rodene Ronquillo, who also put a message out on Twitter after Jones had broken the news.rodene jones (@rodeneronquillo)Shame on those of you who just thought I was really fat and didn't say anything. HAHA. ;) pic.twitter.com/OtTF2wPrPkFebruary 10, 2016In 2013, Jones’s wife was given the all-clear following her own cancer battle, which saw her undergo a double mastectomy. “My fiance, at the time, ended up finding my lump. It was right underneath my breast, above my rib,” she said in an interview with Popsugar. She added that it was a “very awkward place” was probably why it had been missed previously. The couple married in 2012.Jones, the director of the upcoming film Warcraft, and adaptation of the video game series of the same name, was also at the helm of sci-fi thriller Source Code.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Bowie with then-wife Angie and son Duncan in 1974. Photograph: AlamyThe couple’s first child would have been Bowie’s first grandchild.Meanwhile, Bowie’s widow Iman broke her silence on social media for the first time since her husband’s death. The couple were married in 1992, two years after they met.Iman Abdulmajid (@The_Real_IMAN)pic.twitter.com/ibO9lubSIbFebruary 6, 2016   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  ‘An extraordinary, alien, otherworldly creature’: David Bowie 1947-2016 - video tribute