For decades Ally Capellino has been making beautifully minimal leather goods – bags and purses that are pared rectangles of perfect clarity, all extraneous detail excised. So it is a surprise to enter the two-storey flat of the label’s creator, Alison Lloyd, and find objects on every surface. There are decorated eggs, jugs, crockery printed with images of Greek politicians, a cake stand crowded with brown bottles dug up in the garden, desiccated gunnera leaves and dead moths. (To be fair, I think she would prefer not to collect the moths.)Lloyd describes her style as “organised clutter”, but it’s more provocative and composed than that. She hovers over a bowl of dried lemons on the hall table; some of the cut sides have turned green. When I find these in my own fruit bowl, I regard them as a sign of domestic mismanagement, but in Lloyd’s flat they look curated. She prods at them with a collector’s blend of care and cold-eyed watchfulness.“After a while they just dry,” she says, picking through the bowl. “My mum’s house is much worse.” She has just returned from a visit.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A younger Capellino with her son, Hamish, painted by a friend. Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the GuardianLloyd owns the bottom half of a four-storey late-Victorian house in Dalston, east London. It would be wrong to suggest that chaos rules. There is a place for everything. Down the hall from the lemons, she pauses again. “These are all out of the garden,” she says, indicating what looks like a beautiful metal sculpture but is simply a desiccated frog she found in a plant pot. There’s another frog, two dead fish – “next door’s cat caught one and I saw it dried out, and then another fish died, so I just left it in the sun for a bit. I think that’s a squirrel,” she says, fingering a tiny fragment of skeleton. The overall effect is of lives stilled, wrested into quiet by Lloyd’s restless mind. There is, she admits, “quite a lot going on in my head”.This is a special home for Lloyd. In many ways, it is the place she has lived that is most hers. In 1999, she and her family left their house in nearby Bow. She had co-founded Ally Capellino with her husband Jonathan Lloyd-Platt, but then everything fell apart. “What happened was, we went bust and we lost the house.” At the same time, she and Lloyd-Platt split.Lloyd moved with her son, Hamish, a couple of times before they settled on this Dalston maisonette 12 years ago. Lloyd’s daughter, Agnes, meanwhile, went to live with her father, before moving in with her mother when she started university.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Book shelves in the living room, leading into the kitchen. Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the Guardian“I had a massive panic attack when I got here. The business had a bit of a dip, and Hamish left home. Downstairs were those two massive bleak bedrooms.” But now at last, after the family house, the stop-gap flats, this place has become a kind of resting place.She borrowed enough money on the mortgage to make renovations: a door to the garden, en-suite bathrooms, the conversion of a third bedroom, in which “an itinerant friend” stays for months at a time. When Agnes, now 26, left two years ago, Lloyd rented out her room to Airbnb guests. “There was nobody in the house,” she says. “I hated it.” Lloyd has a waspish sense of humour. She limits guests’ stays because “after two weeks, it’s like fish and family…” She looks askance from beneath her cap of pale hair. “They start to stink.” The comment seems particularly mischievous given the goldfish carcasses enjoying the liberty of an unlimited pass in the hall. It is hard to resist the sense that all these interesting people who drop in are part of some collection, too. I don’t go to markets any more, because I dread bringing something home. It’s like lost kittens We climb the stairs, past a framed display of decayed shoes, “from a holiday in Spain 25 years ago. It’s their back stories that appeal: ‘Where’s the other one?’ you know.”This sense of salvage runs through the whole home. Other than two sofas which Lloyd bought 12 years ago from Ligne Roset – and the artworks given to her by friends such as the painter Duncan MacAskill – she says her possessions are “of no material value”. The large dressers in the kitchen were bought from “chancers” on Bow’s Roman Road. The kitchen table is a counter from a shop that closed down. She found the top of the coffee table “in bushes in Mile End park”, and stood it on a banana box from Sainsbury’s. A lamp came from the hoarder who lived next door, “a sad case” whom she misses; when he died, all the neighbours helped themselves to something. “I don’t go to markets any more,” she says, “because I dread bringing something home. It’s like lost kittens.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Capellino on her reupholstered sofa. Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the GuardianShe rarely rearranges an interior, except when she’s at work, a few miles away in Shoreditch. Most nights she is the last to leave the office, staying “at least an hour after everyone’s gone. I like to fiddle around with things.”Noise drifts through the French doors from the garden, where Lloyd is having a studio built. It will be a lovely place to work, I say. “I don’t know what it’s for,” she replies. It seems to be the emptiness, the unspecified possibilities that appeal to her. “I have no idea what I am going to do with it. Could be yoga, could be a bit creative, could be dinner. Basically, it’s not going to have anything in it.”