For a nation constantly boasting about its multiculturalism and diversity – at least when its Olympic bids are at stake – tonight’s Brit awards are looking like a woefully white affair. What has been an abysmal year for grime in terms of nominations, has been a record year for the genre in reality. It appears that so-called “industry experts” seem to know chuff-all about what people are actually listening to.But aside from their uncanny ability to ignore the genre almost entirely, it is not just the black members of this burgeoning music scene that are left on the sidelines. While the Brits board claim that they “typically celebrate the highest levels of achievement, reflecting commercial popularity and chart success”, the success of black soul singers has been notably brushed over this year – even though they make the very style of music many of the white nominees are lauded for.Snubbed UK singer and Grammy award nominee Lianne La Havas’s album, Blood, peaked at No 2 last year and two songs from Ella Eyre’s Feline album made it into the top 40. X Factor runner-up Fleur East reached No 3 with her debut single Sax, and topped the iTunes chart with her cover of Uptown Funk. It’s hard to believe the omnipresent Kwabs and MNEK didn’t receive a nod somewhere either.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Raking it in … Adele, James Bay, Jack Garratt and Jessie J. Composite: Getty/Rex/RedfernsIn past years, white singers influenced by soul manage to clean up at the Brit awards and tend to then do the same several months later at the Mobos. The fact that many black musicians struggle to receive recognition at any ceremony at all doesn’t seem to bother them one bit. By their own admittance, many of these singers owe a great deal to the likes of Aretha Franklin, Etta James, James Brown and Whitney Houston – to the black pioneers of soul (hello Adele, Sam Smith), the blues (James Bay) and R&B (Jack Garratt, Jessie J). Considering they’re making music of black origin and subsequently raking it in by doing so, many show an unbelievable amount of contempt for the issues faced by those they emulate.This issue was raised earlier this week, when Lily Allen, one of the few white artists to speak about the lack of diversity at the Brits, had her comments immediately shot down by blues crooner and nominee James Bay, who didn’t understand why she “had to go down that route” and assured us it was “about music”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Shot down … Lily Allen, one of the few white artists to speak about lack of diversity. Photograph: Ollie Millington/Getty ImagesSimilarly in 2014, controversy surrounding several white Mobo nominations were immediately written off as “annoying” by songstress Jess Glynne. “It’s not about the colour of your skin, it’s about your music,” she echoed, not realising that’s the exact point people critical of almost entirely white shortlists are trying to make. “I think people read into things too much and jump on the whole ‘it’s not equal’ thing.” Around the same time, Ed Sheeran was nominated the “most important person in black music” by the BBC 1Xtra power list and swiftly implored sceptics to “listen with their ears, not their eyes”. Clearly it hadn’t occurred to him that it was precisely the fact that people “listen with their eyes” that saw him top the farcical list in the first place. Not everyone is as wilfully colourblind as he may be – at least not in the music industry, where a doe-eyed, warbling white boy certainly paints a prettier picture than a black one and makes a prettier penny.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Soul sister … one of Britain’s biggest black music exports Amy Winehouse. Photograph: James McCauley/Rex ShutterstockThis does not mean that the nominated artists aren’t talented. It’s simply that black artists, whether they are more, less or equally as exceptional are not equally rewarded – even within a predominantly black genre. I know the world would like to believe that Britain’s biggest soul exports over the decade – Duffy, Amy Winehouse, Adele, Sam Smith, Jack Garratt and others – are so because they’re the best, but we’ve all seen enough black teens perfecting Mariah Carey’s falsetto highs on The X Factor to know it’s simply not the case. White artists have not thrived within a predominantly black genre in spite of being white, they have thrived because of it. Artists are continually nominated for making music pioneered by black artists – usually at the expense of black artists. And any acknowledgment of this is met with huffing and puffing of epic proportions.It’s white privilege at its most dizzying. Dominate a genre pioneered by black people, then balk and cry foul when this grim reality is pointed out every once in a while. In some cases, they don’t even bother engaging with the debate at all, in spite of the huge public platform that they have to instigate genuine influence and change. Somehow, regardless of them being the ones rewarded for their music, they remain the victims, nursing a paper cut from yet another sharp-edged race card.The argument often goes that “people shouldn’t get rewards simply because they are black”. But when will we finally realise that in the business of making “black music”, musicians are continually rewarded simply because they are white?