BBC iPlayerFleabagHaving spawned one of 2016’s most talked-about TV offerings, Phoebe Waller-Bridge’s tragicomic hit recently returned to its one-woman theatrical roots with a limited run at Soho Theatre. Tickets sold out in no time, but thankfully there’s another chance to catch the TV version, heavy on humiliation, masturbation, grief and acerbic one-liners.Available now Planet Earth II PlaylistsFor those who can’t get enough of the BBC1 nature documentary’s swoonsome visuals, the iPlayer is offering three half-hour interludes of aerial and drone footage from the series, set to a wide-ranging selection of music curated by Benji B, David Rodigan and Huw Stephens. Slow TV for viewers without the time, the selections veer from the obvious (Many Rivers To Cross over shots of a river) to the inspired (Alice Coltrane in the rainforest canopy). There’s no Tinariwen for the desert or Moby by the ocean but, yes, there is some jungle in the jungle.Available to 27 DecBBC3Seann Walsh: One For The RoadFeted observational comic/all-round wally Seann Walsh took his gags to the Highlands back in September as part of his One For The Road tour, along with punning “support act and driver” Mark Simmons. Expect carnage and comedy as the pair career around remote Scotland without a tour manager or 4G signal in sight in this one-off.Available from Wednesday      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Seann Walsh (left) and Mark SimmonsNetflixTen PercentNaturally, this cameo-filled French dramedy about actors has drawn comparisons with the likes of Extras and Entourage. Its Parisian froideur and style do, however, give it a distinctly Euro edge. Agents Mathias, Andrea, Arlette and Gabriel look after some of France’s biggest names, but behind the doors of their swanky offices, trouble is afoot: actor Cécile de France is dropped from a US flick for being too old, while Mathias is pursued by an unexpected, persistent visitor.Available from Sunday PodcastGriefcastA shroud of taboo, fear, mystery and polite euphemism still surrounds the way we speak about death today. Comic Cariad Lloyd – whose father died when she was 15 – draws on mortality with humour and warmth, throwing the shroud to one side as she speaks to fellow funnypeople about their own experiences of death. Episodes released so far feature Adam Buxton, Jayde Adams, Jon Harvey and Sara Pascoe, with more to follow.Available now Chapo Trap HouseThere’s a new demographic in US politics known as the Dirtbag Left. They’re the left-behind Bernie Bros; the young people energised by Sanders who voted for Clinton with a heavy heart, or didn’t vote at all. The sensibility is well represented by this podcast, which comes courtesy of a trio of smart but cynical twentysomethings whose first post-election mission is to eat plenty of humble pie. Their subsequent moves should be well worth watching as the response to Trump develops.Available now