No cartoonist alive devotes as much effort as Daniel Clowes to mapping the differences between the way people see themselves and the way they really are. “Whenever you meet somebody you know just as an online presence, the only response I’ve ever had is overwhelming empathy and sadness,” Clowes says over iced tea and soup in Manhattan. “Because you see at once. Often people come off very combative and sort of aggressive, and then you see them and think: ‘You are just so not a vital presence in the physical world.’ I don’t think I’ve ever met somebody for the first time that way and thought, ‘They’re exactly what I pictured!’”Clowes’s work is characterised by such a devotion to technical perfection and a well-calibrated acidity about the depressing consistency of human nature that it seems as if the man himself ought to be just like one of his own perpetually angry, thwarted oddballs.It comes as a shock, then, to discover how warm Clowes is in person, how generous when it comes to other artists and writers and anxious he is to take the charitable view. His work has changed over the years, and, he says, so has he.Clowes is tall and thin, bald with a short, mostly grey beard, horn-rimmed glasses and a deep voice. He looks like a person who should frown more than he actually does, prone as he is to launching into enthusiastic and humorous descriptions of places and people.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Daniel Clowes – self-portrait. Photograph: Courtesy of the artistOn Chico, California: “Chico, you may not know, is just the ultimate Central Valley depressed truck-stop town. It’s Fresno without the glamour and the culture.”On Terry Zwigoff, who directed Ghost World and the award-winning documentary Crumb: “If someone could just pay him to say he’s going to direct a movie and not do it, he’d be so happy. To be out having to boss people around is so alien to him.”On his late friend and assistant Alvin Buenaventura, who died two weeks before this interview after a long battle with depression: “Alvin ... was really improbable, from a completely culture-free middle-class army family in San Diego, and somehow had the greatest sense of art and culture of anyone I’d ever met. He was like a desert flower that blooms once every 20 years.”Clowes’s new book, Patience, is an enormous undertaking, not just in length but in narrative scope and in what it wants to do visually. It is a decades-spanning time-travel story about Jack, a man trying to save his pregnant wife Patience from being murdered years previously. Psychedelic double-page spreads attempt to depict what it feels like to fall through time. Jack wanders through beautifully rendered neighbourhoods as he tries to learn more about Patience’s personal history and which of her old acquaintances might become her killer.“I think he’s the closest I’ve had to an arts education,” says Adrian Tomine. “Being friends with him has taught me a lot about being a cartoonist and a lot about being a consumer of culture.”Clowes and Tomine have both recently finished books representing years’ worth of work: Tomine’s Killing and Dying was released in October. And while the two men are very different stylistically, they are both meticulous. “Dan might be the only person who never gave me a hard time about how long it took to create Killing and Dying,” Tomine says. Patience took five years to write and draw. Comics, especially monthly superhero books, are often written out like a screenplay, but Clowes first plots, then designs the sequences and the layouts of the panels within them. Only at the very end of the process does he write the text for the page. His characters also often miss things that the careful reader can see. “A lot of what I write about is what someone wants to present to the world, and then what they really are,” Clowes says. “What I play with a lot is the text, which is a lie, and then the image is the truth.”When asked why he wanted to spend so much time on a single project – the book is also his longest, at 180 pages – Clowes is frank: “I did not want to.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Courtesy of the artist“I found a piece of paper somewhere where I’d tried to imagine how much each section would be, how many pages, and it was such a gross underestimation,” he says. “I was just thinking, ‘I’m gonna cram stuff in there and cut stuff out!’ Which is normal – that’s kind of my normal process is to condense everything and to carve away, and keep it as minimal as possible. This one, I felt like I wanted to do the opposite, really, and make it bigger.”The book shares DNA with Clowes’s most recent efforts, especially 2010’s Wilson, about a man who deals with the death of his father in what might be the least healthy way possible (a film, by Craig Johnson, director of The Skeleton Twins, is in the works), and Clowes’s other big sci-fi story, The Death Ray. The stories are more mature, and the characters deeper.Some of that probably has to do with Clowes himself growing older, and especially with fatherhood. “Whenever I’m hanging out with people and they’re in their 20s or early 30s with no kids, you realise how much of their persona is based on these shticks they’ve come up with over the years and how they present themselves to the world,” he says. “It’s all about certain poses they take on. I remember so well myself at that age, where you’re like, ‘I’m going to be really contrary, and say I disagree, and that this is the opinion I’ve staked out because it’s interesting!’ and then after you have kids, you realise, ‘I’ve got to actually be who I am, to present that to this person who’s watching everything I do.’”And Clowes has grieved, too – he has said that his father’s death in 2008 led him to write and draw Wilson. “My whole life my dad said, ‘You should do a New Yorker cover!’” Clowes recalls. He made it a joke: “I was like, ‘OK, I will! Sure, Dad, I’ll just call them up tomorrow.’ And I was literally colouring my first New Yorker cover the night he died. It came out a week after that. He knew it was going to happen, but he didn’t get to see it. It was so crushing.”The two-layer cover of that magazine is a quick one-two gag: on the exterior is a man standing on a ladder in a cluttered workshop, a frown of concentration of his face as he puts the finishing touches on a sophisticated robot that he is building. Turn the page, and the man and the robot are sitting down at a table together in the living room playing cards, the man with a satisfied smile on his face.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Courtesy of the artistIt is a perfectly Clowesian pair of images: a man with grand, maybe revolutionary designs who probably doesn’t even know that he really just wants some company. And it is worked out at the same level of detail as every page of Patience.In fact, everything Clowes draws has an high level of polish. The bitter, funny mid-90s adventures of Dan Pussey, for example (a cartoonist who leaves art school to work for a slave-driving publisher of superhero comics), are just as carefully drawn as Wilson. But the tone and ambition of the work has changed, and radically.Labour-intensive or not, Clowes says he can’t stop himself. “Normally when I’ve finished a book in the last 10 or more years I’ve had something else waiting to go, and so it’s always been this pressure to finish, and then the next Monday I start over. With this I had nothing at all, because I cleared out everything. I just told everybody, ‘I can’t do anything until this is over.’”When Patience was done, Clowes decided to take a two-week holiday. “After about two days I felt like I had no purpose in the world,” he says, laughing. “I just felt, ‘What am I doing?’ The thing I live for in a way is to see these pages stack up. I like to wake up in the morning and go, ‘Oh, I drew that yesterday!’ And if I miss that, I just think, ‘I’ve just X’ed off a day of my precious life and it’s just gone! and I’ll never get it back!’ So I sort of refocused and tried to think about what I’m going to do next.”Patience by Daniel Clowes is published by Vintage. To order for £13.59 (RRP £16.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.