It’s my first time in Coventry, and I’m lost. Negotiating my way around its notorious ring road, I find myself entirely reliant on the instructions issued by my passenger, Dr Stewart Birrell, assistant professor of experiential engineering at the University of Warwick.“Stay in the middle lane here,” he says, “and go straight over the lights.”“What lights?” I say. At least he hasn’t mentioned my driving. I’ve clipped the pavement twice, bouncing us both in our seats.“Then just follow the road round,” Birrell says, opening his door. “You should be fine from here.”“Where are you going?” I say. He leaps out with the car still travelling at 25mph. Instinctively, I slam on the brakes. When I look over, he’s standing by the window.Although I really am in Coventry, I’m not actually on the ring road. I’m on the university campus, inside the Warwick Manufacturing Group’s (WMG) state-of-the-art, £3.2m driving simulator, the only one of its kind in the world.What does the 3xD Simulator for Intelligent Vehicles have that other simulators don’t? First of all, the car itself is not a simulation – it’s a Range Rover Evoque. The engine has been removed and replaced with a bunch of blinking boxes designed to fool the car’s sensors into thinking it is driving. The car sits in the middle of a 360-degree cylindrical screen projecting a high-definition, digitally rendered route, a total of 30 miles of roads round and about Coventry (the longest ever route mapped for a simulator, although they didn’t know this at the time). Its connectivity also makes it unique: the simulator can feed in GPS and 4G signals to mimic entertainment and guidance systems.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tim Dowling encounters a pedestrian while ‘driving’ the Range Rover.“We’re effectively bringing the city to the vehicle,” says Paul Jennings, professor of experiential engineering at WMG, an academic department that collaborates with industry. “We want everything to be as immersive and representative as possible.”I can testify to the simulator’s immersive nature. The engine hums. The world lurches with every turn of the wheel, and it takes a while to acclimatise. When I look in my rear-view mirror, I see the other side of buildings I’ve just passed. After 10 minutes I feel deeply anxious and quite car sick. I really shouldn’t be driving, because the simulator is primarily used to test driverless cars.In driverless mode, I sit in the passenger seat while the car takes me on a virtual trip round the Warwick campus, negotiating roundabouts, lights and other traffic. It’s not like watching a movie – I am hypervigilant. At a crossing, a pedestrian steps in front of the car and it brakes sharply. Even after several circuits of this route, my stomach lurches at this moment every time.The driverless car is one of those futuristic innovations that seems to have arrived on our doorstep well ahead of schedule. Trials of driverless pods on real roads are about to begin in cities including Coventry, Milton Keynes and London. It seems almost pointless to ask whether or not driverless technology is a good idea: it’s here already.“Do I think driverless cars are a good idea? I would say yes,” says Jennings. “I would put safety at the top. On UK roads each year about 1,500 to 2,000 people die: 90% of those are down to human error. So, theoretically, if we can get more intelligence into driving, we can save lives and reduce the number of accidents on the road.”It is not just lives that could be saved, but also time. “The average UK driver at the moment spends six working weeks a year behind the wheel,” says Jennings. “You could actually use that for something more productive.”Although driverless vehicles would be, in theory, inherently safer, testing prototype systems in the real world presents a number of challenges.“Firstly, it’s a bit scary – you’ve got real driverless cars out there with real people, and therefore you have to be very risk-averse,” says Jennings. “Actually, for the vast majority of the time nothing very interesting happens.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The car sits in a 360-degree cylindrical screen projecting a high-definition, digitally rendered route.In the simulator you can recreate real-world situations and test them over and over under controlled conditions. You can push systems to the point of failure – what happens when a signal degenerates, or a sensor misinterprets? – without risking lives. You can look for what engineers call “corner cases”, problems that occur only when a particular set of variables coincide.“These little, interesting scenarios when things don’t work quite as planned, or that challenge a system a bit more,” says Jennings. “It’s those that we really need to test for.”One unique aspect of the 3xD simulator is its ability to “spoof” connectivity. The car and the screen sit inside a giant Faraday cage – a metal box, basically – that blocks out all outside interference. The 3G, 4G and GPS signals the car receives are all in-house recreations. You could drive it through Coventry while telling the satnav it’s in Beijing. That may sound needlessly perverse, but cyber security is a big worry for the future of driverless technology.The eco guide to electric vehicles “GPS has been known to be spoofed quite easily,” says Carsten Maple, WMG’s director for cyber security research. “Our team know how to create fake base stations, so your mobile phone looks like it’s connected to O2 or Vodafone, but actually it’s just connected to a computer.”While it’s illegal to set up a fake station (though they do exist in the UK, for various nefarious purposes), Maple’s team can mimic one inside the cage. “We can then say what an attacker would be able to do.”At WMG they don’t really use the term “driverless” unless they are talking to laypeople. Instead, they speak of varying levels of vehicle autonomy. A level 5 vehicle is truly driverless; chances are it wouldn’t even have a steering wheel. There is barely such a thing as a level 1 car any more: ABS brakes, cruise control and assisted parking are all forms of autonomy. In the levels in between, cars are to some varying degree self-piloting, with human drivers supervising and intervening where necessary.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I take the car up a slip road and on to the M6, but when I miss my exit I quickly run out of motorway – the car lifts off and hurtles through empty space.’This human-machine handover point is one of the most challenging issues for the industry. The potential for error is vast. According to studies done in the simulator by Birrell, people need on average between seven and 12 seconds of warning before safely resuming command of a vehicle that has been driving itself. “It’s the time it takes to get the driver back into the loop,” he says. It’s hard to conceive of an emergency with a reaction window as generous as 12 seconds. And that is for someone who is sitting behind the wheel. Imagine if you happened to be kneeling on the back seat trying to decorate a birthday cake.“There’s a question as to whether they will even do this level of autonomy,” says Maple. “They might just skip that.”This issue is more than theoretical. In May, a Tesla driver was killed in Florida while the car was operating in autopilot mode – a sort of enhanced cruise control that governs the car’s speed and road position in relation to other vehicles. The car failed to distinguish a white 18-wheeled truck crossing the highway against a bright sky, and crashed into it at full speed. Although Tesla advises drivers to remain alert with their hands on the wheel in autopilot mode, there was evidence to suggest the driver was watching a Harry Potter movie at the time of the crash.It is not only a question of how the driver/passenger behaves in relation to the autonomous vehicle, but also how other road users react. Driverless cars are programmed to maintain a regulated safe distance from the car in front, leaving a gap a human driver might be only too happy to slip into. And how will pedestrians behave in an area open exclusively to driverless traffic?The first self-driving car fatality proves nothing | John Naughton “If I know there are only autonomous vehicles around me,” says Maple, “I don’t need to use that pedestrian crossing any more, because I don’t need to worry that the driver might not be looking and run me over. So instead of being better at freeing up traffic, you could have much more of it, because of the people aspect.”The 3xD simulator is due to move down the road next year, to the university’s as-yet-unfinished National Automotive Innovation Centre. One upcoming project involves testing the very driverless pods that will soon take to the streets in Milton Keynes.It is difficult to predict the future for driverless technology, because different companies are pursuing different avenues, even if the ultimate goal is the same. Google is working with the idea of fully autonomous vehicles operating in a restricted environment, which will gradually expand. Tesla and other manufacturers are thinking in terms of gradually increasing the autonomy of cars using all our roads. Even Uber has moved into the field. “Uber has got all the data recorded from all its drivers,” says Maple. “They’re literally driving themselves out of a job.”At the end of my time at WMG, I have one more go in the simulator. I take the car up a slip road and on to the M6, but when I miss my exit I quickly run out of motorway – the car lifts off and hurtles through empty space, as if I have died. It is, to say the least, disconcerting.In a taxi on the way back to the train station, I pass the actual crossing where, in the simulation, the careless pedestrian kept stepping in front of my Range Rover. Even though I’m not driving, I lean forward to look both ways.