Sacha Baron Cohen’s love affair with America appears to be over, at least temporarily. The British comic’s controversial new comedy, The Brothers Grimsby, has bombed at the North American box office with just $3.2m in its first weekend.Why are film titles still being changed for international release? The spy spoof, which has made headlines in the US over a “Donald Trump has Aids” joke, landed in eighth place – Baron Cohen’s lowest ever debut in North America, way behind The Dictator’s $17.4m haul from 2012. By contrast, Borat bowed with $26.4m in 2006 and Bruno managed a whopping $30.6m opening in 2009.The Brothers Grimsby, which was titled simply Grimsby in the UK, has been dogged in the US by claims Sony chose to bury the film rather than upset Trump and his supporters. The studio has denied the reports, but there have been suggestions the film was lightly marketed in North America, with minimal billboard and television advertising. Baron Cohen has been promoting the movie himself by showing it to celebrities such as the Kardashian family and asking them to post their reactions on social media.Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian)Our reaction to @sachabaroncohen's movie "The Brothers Grimsby"'. You guys are gonna die!!!!! You have to go see it! pic.twitter.com/MIp5GJ1HhDMarch 2, 2016The Brothers Grimsby, in which Baron Cohen plays a Liam Gallagher-like football-loving buffoon who discovers his brother (Mark Strong) is a secret agent, debuted in the UK on 24 February and has been met with mixed reviews. The Guardian’s Peter Bradshaw wrote: “Sacha Baron Cohen brings his B-game – or maybe even his C-game – to this moderate new comedy that basically defeated my attempts to like it.”Zootopia review – Disney's furry fable gets its claws out for the bigots Elsewhere on the chart there was better news for Disney Animation Studio’s Zootopia, which retained the No 1 spot with another $50m in receipts and has now scored $142m in just two weeks of release in North America. The tale of a city populated by talking animals hit $431m at the global box office this weekend after another record-breaking cycle in China.The thriller pseudo-sequel 10 Cloverfield Lane also posted excellent results, opening with $25.2m in second place. Starring John Goodman, John Gallagher Jr and Mary Elizabeth Winstead in the story of a young woman trapped in a survivalist bunker by a man who claims the outside world is no longer safe, Dan Trachtenberg’s film has been superbly reviewed. The Guardian’s Jordan Hoffman wrote: “10 Cloverfield Lane does a spectacular job of capturing nightmare logic. You sense danger even if you can’t explain it … All three actors are tremendous.”Two other new films made this week’s top 10. Romantic comedy The Perfect Match landed in sixth place with $4.15m, while faith-based drama The Young Messiah scored $3.4m in seventh. The Perfect Match, which centres on a charming playboy who finds himself lulled into a serious relationship, has been poorly reviewed. But The Young Messiah, about the seven-year-old Jesus, has received decent notices for a faith-based production. It currently boasts a 63% “fresh” rating on the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes.US and Canadian box office, 11-13 March1. Zootopia: $50m. Total: $142.6m2. 10 Cloverfield Lane: $25.2m - new 3. Deadpool: $10.8m. Total: $328m4. London Has Fallen: $10.6m. Total: $38.8m5. Whiskey Tango Foxtrot: $4.5m. Total: $14.5m6. The Perfect Match: $4.1m - new7. The Young Messiah: $3.4m - new8. The Brothers Grimsby: $3.15m - new9. Gods of Egypt: $2.5m. Total: $27.3m10. Risen: $2.25m. Total: $32.3m