Stalin was keenly aware of the power of music, or at least of the inherent challenge of free expression to authoritarian rule. In 1936, around the time of the start of the purges, he condemned Dmitri Shostakovich’s opera Lady Macbeth of Mtsensk. For two years it had been playing around the world to packed houses. But Pravda, Stalin’s mouthpiece, declared its defining idiom was “quacking and growling” that was intended merely to “tickle the perverted taste of the bourgeoisie”. In communist Russia, the opera was silenced. This was not an exercise in musicology. This was Stalin asserting his control over the inner life of Soviet citizens.Marks & Spencer probably didn’t quite have Stalin’s soul-sapping battle with Shostakovich in mind when it introduced piped music into its stores. All the same, it almost certainly did want to alter its customers’ mood. It wanted them to feel happy and confident and ready to part with their money.How Waterstones thrives without the sound of muzak | Letters Nor, when it was announced earlier this week that it was going to press the off button, was it so that customers could think for themselves again. Opinion varied over what it did want to achieve. Either it was a) to allow its ageing shoppers to talk to each other, or b) to save the large amount of money it costs to run an endless loop of upbeat tunes.The capacity of music to alter mood remains undisputed. Now, anti-muzak campaigners Pipedown have followed up on the Marks & Spencer’s ban to demand that restaurants switch off too. They agree that older customers struggle to hear against it, and that’s probably true. But why not just say that silence is, you know, golden.Other people’s music leaking out from their earbuds is irritating. Pedestrians so absorbed by their personal sound system that they stray into the path of oncoming cyclists are a hazard. Music imposed by a commercial operation is a personal assault. It is Huxley’s soma, a happiness drug, as impossible to evade as a supermarket’s pumped-out fragrance of new-baked bread. It is used to calm us down, or rev us up. It is a deliberate attempt to interfere with our autonomy.Some people hate silence. They are the ones who are either permanently wired for sound, or who cannot walk into a room without turning on the radio or TV. For them it is purgatory to imagine, say, a long journey with only the inner workings of their mind for company. Some of them might even go for walks in beautiful places with headphones on. The capacity of music to alter mood remains undisputed At least choosing always to have sound in your ears that is not the soundtrack of the world around you is a personal thing. It is a positive, if in my view inexplicable, decision that can be reversed, unlike the noise of pounding music that blots out any capacity for critical thought when, say, trying on a pair of jeans half a size too tight.But really, blotting out the sound around you as a matter of course, excluding the shuffles and sneezes, the distant chat, every footfall: why would you? Of course some noise is tiresome. All the same, obscuring it also means obscuring the unexpected: the song of a robin, a moment of kindness, a touching gesture. It would be like wearing glasses that drain the world of colour. Why would anyone seek out monochrome vision? Why choose to live in a world without natural sound?Muzak is air freshener for the ears. An inadequate attempt to sanitise reality.