All talk and no action has been a common complaint of season six so far, with some justification. Carrie’s new paradigm of legal advocacy hasn’t exactly got the adrenaline pumping. Hopefully, the big bang that ends tonight’s episode is a turning point. The return of Majid Javadi too can only be a good thing.“Should we go back to the ghettos of Europe and Asia and wait for the next pogrom?”Back in the Holy Land, Saul has an unholy journey to his destination and is shocked at his rough treatment. We are equally shocked when we see who he’s meeting. Majid Javadi was always one of Homeland’s most fascinating villains. If anything, his lack of strong ideology made him all the more dangerous. He first showed his true colours by murdering four American assets he promised Saul he would get out of Iran at the time of the revolution. His most diabolical moment though was masterminding the Langley bombing. The 219 of America’s finest killed that day are testament to his ruthlessness. Yet he also embezzled $50m from Iran and spied for the CIA. He is the consummate survivor – turning on a sixpence whenever the circumstances suit. If anyone can help Saul get the truth about Farhad Nafisi, it is he – and that is the request he makes.It’s a long journey back to his sister’s and when Saul arrives, she is ready for him with questions about his allegiances that he really can’t answer. Fortunately, his ride to the airport arrives, though it’s not the one he is expecting. It’s his old buddy Etai Luskin, Israeli ambassador to Germany.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘You fuck with us, we fuck with you’ … Israeli ambassador Etai Luskin may need to brush up on his diplomatic language. Photograph: 20th Century Fox/Didier Baverel /SHOWTIMEEtai has heard about a senior Iranian intelligence official crossing the Jordanian border into the West Bank just as Saul paid a flying visit to an estranged sister there he hadn’t seen for 12 years. Saul’s unconvincing denials lead to his flight being grounded until the morning.“You fuck with us, we fuck with you” says Etai. He may need to brush up on his diplomatic language, but if nothing else, the ambassador knows the stakes. A nuclear Iran ushers in a real existential threat and the prospect of his country wiped out “in a flash of light”. “If you believed in me, you wouldn’t keep telling me to keep my mouth shut”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The battle lines are drawn … Carrie needs to act fast. Photograph: 20th Century Fox/JoJo Whilden/ShowtimeSekou Bah must be one of those lucky guys. How else could he go from facing a 15-year stretch in a supermax prison to walking away with all charges dropped? All he has to do in return is stay away from the press and keep his mouth shut. Reda is impressed by Carrie pulling this one out of the fire “as long as it doesn’t come back and bite us in the ass”. As if!There is relief all round at Sekou’s homecoming party, but a couple of his boys from work are sceptical about his release. You don’t walk away from federal charges without giving someone up is their feeling. Insulted by the implication, he immediately uploads a video exonerating himself and outing Massoud as an FBI informant. It’s exactly the kind of act that could see Sekou back in prison and it is only reluctantly that he takes the video down. Ultimately, it is the right decision for his future.As the show ends though we see that he has no future. The delivery van he drives through New York explodes as a device on board is detonated. So much for being lucky. We have this year’s terrorist outrage, but who exactly is behind it?“What is the use of being in power if you can’t correct things that are demonstrably bad for America and wrong for the world?”You knew this one was coming. Right before the President-elect’s press briefing there’s a newspaper report about the growing concern among intelligence professionals that she is “wilfully ignoring” the Iran nuclear issue. Dar Adal and his crew of hawks have worked their magic. She confronts Dar, telling him “I will not have my agenda mis-characterised and undermined before I even take office”.If she underestimated him before she intends never to make the same mistake again. She calls in Carrie to ask for any leverage she has on Dar to keep him in line. It’s a big ask but, as Keane says, wholesale reform of the CIA is a big deal.Carrie is conflicted at the prospect, but Dar does his best to make it easier for her. He visits her as she picks Frannie up from school. He knows all about her counselling the President-elect and demands she cease and desist. She needs to stand down.“No, you stand down,” she tells him. “You had your turn – 50 fucking years of it – and look where we are now.”The battle lines are drawn. Carrie needs to get that leverage fast.“Parking lot, Long Island City. He had a key and a padlock!”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Quinn doesn’t know it yet, but he has very likely captured a crucial stage of a terrorist plot. Photograph: 20th Century Fox/JoJo Whilden/Showtime Whatever idea Quinn has in his head about the apartment opposite won’t budge. Breaking in with some difficulty with his compromised fine motor skills, he has a scan around. There is nothing too suspicious to the untrained eye but he focuses on a stool by the window that leaves deep impressions on the carpet. Later that night he trails the man in the apartment to the parking lot of Medina Medley, Sekou Bah’s place of work. He is able to take a few photos before he is moved on by a police patrol unit. He doesn’t know it yet, but he has very likely captured a crucial stage of a terrorist plot.Notes and observations      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Pretty child – striking hair!’ … Dar takes a sneaky dig at the red menace Brody. Photograph: 20th Century Fox/JoJo Whilden/ShowtimeThe most obvious culprit behind the van bombing is Agent Conlin but it seems like overkill even for him.“Pretty child – striking hair!” Dar’s sneaky dig at Carrie’s baby father, the red menace Brody, was vicious, unnecessary and very funny.“A man came to school, he had painted hair and he scared Mommy.” Frannie’s comeback was vicious, necessary and equally funny.“What’s not wise is peddling unverified and politically motivated horseshit to the press.” President-elect Keane demonstrating once again that she lives in a fictional universe unlike our own.Saul is gambling that Majid Javadi feels proud enough of what they achieved together with the nuclear deal to salvage it. It’s a noble thought but, venal as he is, he would do better to appeal to Javadi’s love of American luxuries.We are well used on Homeland to the guy with a wild idea who turns out to be right. Usually it’s Carrie, but this time it’s Quinn. Will anyone listen to him?Who planted the bomb in Sekou’s delivery van and why? How will Carrie react to his killing? Are you happy to see Majid Javadi back? Please let me know below.