I’ve interviewed a lot of smallholders over the years and in most cases, a quest for greater self-sufficiency began with a back garden or allotment veg patch. Of course you don’t need to move to the countryside to expand your self-sufficiency horizons, and this is why for many back garden chicken keeping is the obvious next step.I love keeping chickens – they are such fascinating, friendly creatures and I’ll never tire of freshly produced, properly free range eggs. With the gardening and smallholding courses that we’ll be running on our little Welsh plot in the very near future, more animals are very much on the agenda. I adopted some rescue hens a few weeks back: without the British Hen Welfare Trust (BHWT), they would have been destined for slaughter. The charity rehomes ex-layers when they are about 17 months old and no longer deemed commercially viable by farms. As well as enriched cages (which means 40 to 90 hens per cage) the BHWT also works with barn and free range hens. Ours were from the latter and have proven to be spirited and inquisitive from the off. We’ve had them in a fox proof enclosure (and house) next to our existing hens, so they can get used to each other before letting them out together. The term pecking order originates from the expression of dominance in chickens for a very good reason, so it’s worth being careful especially with birds that could be a tad fragile for a few weeks.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A BHWT rescue hen exploring a wildlife twig pile. Photograph: Kim StoddartYet with a little TLC and a healthy diet, most chickens will keep on laying productively enough - their eggs just get bigger and less uniform in size at this age, which doesn’t matter a jot for home use. From our little brood of six, we were getting about three eggs a day from day one. Fresh grass, produce from the garden and seaweed powder (such as kelp) mixed into their drinking water all helps them to flourish. BHWT also provide lots of useful guidance for first time chicken keepers and new adoptees.There are many benefits to keeping chickens, although most will nibble at your flower beds, fruit and vegetables given half a chance, so I now keep mine in a separate area of the garden where they still have plenty of free range foraging interest. Their used bedding provides a brilliant compost accelerator, and having hens means that the sometimes ridiculous number of slugs I remove from the veg patch can be put to good use (in other words munched greedily) when thrown their way.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Indian runner ducks will eat slugs and make a good alternative to chickens. Photograph: Kim StoddartChickens come in all different colours and sizes (as do their eggs) and when I visited this year’s Royal Welsh spring show there was a mesmerising variety of poultry on display. Chickens aren’t the only birds worth considering. Khaki campbell ducks are good egg producers which are more intent on hunting out slugs than eating your produce so tend to be a popular choice. Indian runners are also good and hilarious to watch as they charge about. Duck poo is rather unpleasant however – you have been warned.Geese are also delightful, especially the gentler breeds such as Toulouse: if you were so inclined, they could be used as a natural lawnmower. They are noisy, however, which is why they also have a reputation as a burglar deterrent. They are unlikely to be a popular or indeed realistic choice with your neighbours. Turkeys, as well as being the most fascinating creatures to watch, love eating stinging nettles and dock leaves, so they can prove useful as ground clearers if you fancy rearing Christmas dinner.At the Royal Welsh the quails really caught my eye, so I fancy adding some of these little birds (and their delicious) eggs to our collection in the very near future.  • For more gardening ideas and antics, visit getbadlybehaved.com or @badlybehavedone