No more excuses, no more bare, broken concrete, no more empty beds denuded of life, no more forgotten corners. Even if you’re just calling it home for the summer, even if you’ll never have your name on the deeds, even if you have only one windowsill, I give you these: plants that will survive and flourish, cover and clothe and flower all summer long.Walls, paving and concrete cracks1 Mexican fleabane (Erigeron karvinskianus) makes a carpet of grey-green foliage that sticks around all year and is covered all summer in daisies that fade from white to pink. To top it all, it’s an effortless self-seeder, always choosing the best spot. Loves sun, the seaside and tiny cracks, hates very harsh winters.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mexican fleabane (Erigeron karvinskianus) is an effortless self-seeder. Photograph: Alamy2 There’s a whole gang of ground-hugging, crack-loving, wall-hanging, crevice-seeking bellflowers that will be happy in sun or part shade: try Campanula carpatica ‘Bressingham White’ (pure white), C. cochlerifolia (white to blue), C. latiloba ‘Hidcote Amethyst’ (bright blue), C. ‘Birch Hybrid’ (mauve blue), C. portenschlagiana (purple blue), C. poscharskyana (purple blue). The latter two will take quite deep shade and are guaranteed to flower all summer long. All tolerate chalk soils.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Campanula poscharskyana tolerates shade and flowers all summer long. Photograph: Alamy3 Alpine water fern (Blechnum penna-marina) is a handsome fern with fine, fishbone, glossy green foliage. Loves damp shade and a crumbling back wall, hates drying out.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alpine water fern (Blechnum penna-marina) thrives in damp shade. Photograph: Alamy4 Alpine lady’s mantle (Alchemilla alpina) is the tiny version of the more common lady’s mantle (A. mollis), with dainty leaves, each edged in lime green, and tiny pompoms of yellow-green flowers. It’s perfectly suited to paving crevices where, if happy, it will self-seed. You can get common lady’s mantle to do the same thing, but it gets big and boisterous.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alpine lady’s mantle’s (Alchemilla alpina) dainty leaves are suited to paving crevices. Photograph: Alamy5 Pennyroyal (Mentha pulegium) is born to be stepped on (the pressure helps it spread). Not so good for eating, but you’ll forgive it for its clean peppermint smell. One for the edge where it will wander into your path. Loves pollinators, hates drying out.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pennyroyal (Mentha pulegium) is great for edging paths. Photograph: AlamyDry shade6 Sweet woodruff (Galium odoratum) is a wiry thing of a plant that loves deep shade and is covered in scented white flowers in late spring. Will gently spread as it ages and is unfussy. Dunk the flowers in white wine for a spring spritzer.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sweet woodruff (Galium odoratum) produces scented flowers in late spring. Photograph: Alamy7 Bergenia ‘Bressingham White’ is the pure white form of the more garish pink flowers of the common bergenia, aka elephant ears. Thick, paddle-shaped evergreen leaves are crowned in clusters of flowers above the foliage in spring. Perfect under shrubs. Tolerates chalk soils and damp conditions, hates harsh winds.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bergenia ‘Bressingham White’. Photograph: Alamy8 I think of Baltic parsley (Cenolophium denudatum) as the posh cow parsley that tolerates shade. Its large, white heads of elegant flowers float above a mound of fern-like foliage. Makes a lovely cut flower, too, but won’t tolerate very dry shade, so dig in compost before planting.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Baltic parsley (Cenolophium denudatum) makes a lovely cut flower. Photograph: Alamy9 White dusky cranesbill (Geranium phaeum ‘Album’) can take any amount of dry shade and thin soils, and still shine. This is loved by bees and easy to maintain. Give it a short back and sides after flowering and it will repeat its performance.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Geranium phaeum ‘Album’ is a white form of the dusky cranesbill. Photograph: Alamy10 Periwinkle is often sniffed at, in part because in public spaces it seems to love to collect litter, but the lavender-blue lesser periwinkle form Vinca minor ‘La Grave’ has larger than average flowers and works well interplanted with lily of the valley, hellebores, epimediums and Geranium macrorrhizum ‘Bevans’.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Vinca minor ‘La Grave’. Photograph: AlamySunny gravel gardens11 As the name suggests, the globe thistle Echinops bannaticus ‘Taplow Blue’ has perfect grey-blue globes of flowers: that is if you can see them for all the bees they attract. At 1.5 metres it is taller than E. ritro ‘Veitch’s Blue’ (also worth growing) and will tolerate the thinnest of baked soils. It won’t self-seed, which you’ll be pleased about because it’s quite hard to get rid of once settled.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The globe thistleEchinops bannaticus ‘Taplow Blue’ is popular with pollinators. Photograph: Alamy12 Alpine sea holly (Eryngium alpinum) has brilliant sky blue, teasel-like flowers surrounded by prickly bracts that look like an Elizabethan ruff. It is a problem-free plant for dry, chalky soil. Easy to grow from seed and doesn’t tend to self-seed.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alpine sea holly (Eryngium alpinum) is easy to grow from seed. Photograph: Alamy13 Sedum ‘Herbstfreude’ is drought tolerant and makes a more compact, neater plant in thin, well-drained soils. (In more lush conditions it flops open; ‘Matrona’ is a better choice for fertile spots.) It has huge plates of tiny star-shaped pink flowers that darken with age before drying to a russet orange that stands well in winter. Loved by butterflies and bees.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sedum ‘Herbstfreude’ is drought-tolerant. Photograph: Alamy14 Mediterranean spurge (Euphorbia characias subsp. wulfenii) is best when starved a little in thin soils. Has long oblong grey-green leaves with huge drumstick heads of green-yellow flowers. Resents a harsh wind, loves baking in the sun.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mediterranean spurge (Euphorbia characias subsp.wulfenii) grows best in full sun. Photograph: Alamy15 Take your pick from the oreganos: you can have Origanum vulgare to eat, or go for the more showy O. laevigatum ‘Herrenhausen’ with its wiry stems of tiny purple flowers, which looks good next to grey-blue foliage. O. rossenkuppel with its bright pink flowers works with pastel shades.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Origanum laevigatum ‘Herrenhausen’ looks great next to grey-blue foliage. Photograph: AlamyContainers16 There are endless shades of tobacco plant (Nicotiana x sanderae), from white-and-lime green to pastel pink. These tender annual bedding plants are surprisingly drought-tolerant, happy in sun or shade, but they benefit from regular feeding. Plant out after the last frosts.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Nicotiana xsanderae comes in a range of shades, from white to pastel pink. Photograph: Linda Burgess/Getty Images17 Nasturtium ‘Empress of India’ has deep red, almost velvet-like flowers against dark foliage. Ideal for containers, hanging baskets and window boxes in full sun. Easy to grow from seed, but plant no more than two per container.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nasturtium ‘Empress of India’ is ideal for hanging baskets. Photograph: Alamy18 Fuchsia ‘Whiteknights Pearl’ is delicate, refined, elegant; the very opposite of the garish purple and pink you expect from fuchsias. Slender, palest pink flowers appear from June to October. Happy in shade, but won’t tolerate hard frosts.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fuchsia ‘Whiteknights Pearl’ produces pale pink flowers from June to October. Photograph: Alamy19 Chilli pepper ‘Numex Twilight’  is a tiny chilli suited to sunny windowsills (inside in winter, outside in the summer). Fruits start purple and ripen to yellow, orange and finally red; it packs a punch in cooking.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chilli ‘Numex Twilight’ will grow on a sunny windowsill. Photograph: Alamy20 Heuchera ‘Palace Purple’ is indestructible for sun or shade. It has dark purple foliage with an almost metallic sheen. Tiny white flowers float above the foliage in summer, attracting plenty of pollinators. Keep moist for lush foliage. See below for plant offer.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Heuchera ‘Palace Purple’ looks good in sun or shade. Photograph: AlamyDamp places21 Fish mint (Houttuynia cordata) loves pond margins and reliably damp spots. I grow mine in a tiny pond. It’s edible, used in Thai dishes for its strange fish-like flavours; it’s also pretty, with heart-shaped leaves and tiny white flowers in spring. ‘Chameleon’ is a variegated pink, purple and white variety if you’re feeling colourful.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The leaves of fish mint (Houttuynia cordata) taste good in Thai food. Photograph: Alamy22 Sanguisorbas are ideal for any soil that doesn’t dry out excessively, so if you are prone to flooding, these may work well for you. White burnet (S. canadensis) is particularly robust, growing to 1.8m tall with wonderful bottle-brush upright flowers. Great burnet (S. officinalis) is our native, crimson version, perfect for wild gardens.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Great burnet (Sanguisorba officinalis) is perfect for wild gardens. Photograph: PRILL Mediendesign/Alamy23 Royal fern (Osmunda regalis) is as regal and stately as its name suggests. Upright, bright green, finely divided leaves unfurl in spring; it has distinct spore-bearing rusty orange fronds in summer, but in autumn the whole thing turns red. Perfect for margins of a stream, pond or damp border. Grows to 2 metres tall.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Royal fern (Osmunda regalis) turns rusty red in autumn. Photograph: Alamy24 Giant cowslip (Primula florindae) is ideal for reliably moist, shady places. It will self-seed and spread, tolerating acid and clay soils. It is deciduous with surprisingly tough, but fresh green leaves in spring and sulphur-yellow flowers in early summer. Often repeat flowers if you cut back early. Candelabra primrose (P. prolifera) is another good choice, being evergreen with tiers of golden yellow flowers. Mealy primrose (P. pulverulenta) has dark red to red-purple flowers from late spring to early summer.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Candelabra primulas (Primula pulverulenta) will self-seed and spread in moist, shady places. Photograph: John Glover / Alamy/Alamy25 Don’t have space for the monstrous leaves of a gunnera? Rodgersia is the plant for you. Rodgersia podophylla grows to only 1.5m tall and the same again wide. It has architectural, deeply lobed, glossy dark green leaves that are bronze-coloured when young, and sprays of creamy white flowers in summer. Rodgersia tolerates clay and will spread, but suffers in cold, drying winds •      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Rodgersia podophylla is a more compact plant for lovers of gunnera. Photograph: AlamyPlant offer Buy a two-litre potted Heuchera ‘Palace Purple’ for £9.99, or two for £16.99, plus £4.95 p&p per order. Call 0330 333 6790, quoting ref GU516. Or shop online at shop.theguardian.com/GU516. Dispatched in four to six weeks.