Fig trees can be found in many places in the world, their bright-green, fleur-de lis-shaped leaves providing a welcome dappled shade. In Britain, they grow abundantly, but seldom bear much fruit unless enclosed in a walled garden. The leaves, however, are exactly what I’m after. In California, we wrap the large leaves around freshly caught fish to be grilled on an open fire or baked in the oven. In the sweet kitchen, we gently wash the leaves of any dusty pollen and dunk them into pots of cream or milk to infuse and turn into custards and ice-creams.The flavour of the fig leaf is difficult to describe – it is somewhere between a fig and a coconut. Its fragrance is heady and a little surprising. For me, it’s best kept simple – a burnt-sugar shell suits it well in the creme brulee below.Texture, as well as flavour, is what makes a well-balanced dessert, and here, the crunch of the bruleed top accentuates the silky set cream inside. You can add another layer of texture by serving it with a cookie – or my favourite buckwheat shortbread below. Buckwheat flour is, despite its name, wheat- and gluten-free. It is a relative of rhubarb, and in many countries the whole groats are toasted and cooked like a delicious, fragrant rice. Milled, it is a tasty alternative grain flour. Buckwheat’s earthy flavour makes it a good match for a custard flavoured with herbs or other botanicals.Fig leaf creme brulee (main picture)Serves 66 fig leaves180g single cream360g double cream 180g milk150g caster sugar9 egg yolksA pinch of salt6 tbsp caster sugar, for the topping1 Heat the grill of your oven and lay the fig leaves out flat on a baking tray. Put the tray on the highest rack in your oven and leave the door ajar. After a few minutes you will start to smell the wonderful heady aroma of the fig leaves warming up and then starting to singe under the flame. Let them take on a little bit of colour before taking them out of the oven.2 Combine the creams, milk, sugar and fig leaves in a saucepan. Cook until the mixture is just about to reach the boil – it should be foamy, and the sugar dissolved.3 Separate the eggs, reserving the whites for another use. Put the yolks in a large bowl with a pinch of salt.4 Pour the milk mixture over the yolks, and whisk to temper them. Strain the mixture into a large jug.5 Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4.6 Put 6 ramekins in a 2cm deep roasting tray. Pour the custard into the ramekins, then fill the roasting tray with water until it reaches halfway up the ramekins.7 Cover the whole tray with foil, then bake them for 35-40 minutes. The custards should still have a slight wobble in the centre when they are done.8 Remove the tray from the oven, peel away the foil and leave to cool for 10 minutes. Remove the ramekins from the water and put on a cooling rack to cool completely. Clean the sides of the ramekins. Store in the fridge until you are ready to brulee the top.9 When ready to serve, sprinkle the tops with the caster sugar and scorch with a cook’s blowtorch until you have a layer of burnt caramel on the top. Serve at once.Buckwheat shortbreadMakes up to 24 pieces150g whole almonds with skins on, toasted and roughly chopped300g buckwheat flour400g unsalted butter, cold and cut into 1cm cubes200g golden caster sugar½ tsp salt4 egg yolks1 Line a 20cm x 30cm tin with baking parchment. Preheat the oven to 170C/335F/gas mark 3½.2 In a mixing bowl, combine the chopped almonds, flour and butter. Mix into a coarse meal. Add the sugar and salt. Mix well.3 Add the egg yolks and mix just until the dough starts to come together.4 Press the dough into the prepared tin. Bake for 15‑20 minutes, or until it is just starting to turn golden.5 Remove from the oven. While the shortbread is still warm, use a bench scraper or a sharp knife to gently cut the shortbread into 24 pieces (2 by 12). Allow to cool completely, before cutting again and removing from the tin.Claire Ptak is a pastry chef, author and food stylist and owns Violet Bakery in London. She is the author of the Violet Bakery Cookbook (Square Peg); @violetcakeslondon