There is a picture of Gordon Parks now in American school books. This only emerges casually and extremely modestly at the end of our conversation. “As a matter of fact I’m opposite Buffalo Bill, in full colour, and that’s good, because it gives the Negro kids something to identify with.”It’s not surprising that he is a kids’ hero. He is a “Life” photographer, writer, composer, and now the first Negro film director and producer. “The Learning Tree,” his first feature film, was screened at the Edinburgh Festival. He is 56, with a handsome lived-in face and greying hair, a vivid talker whose opinions have been forged by tough experience. “The Learning Tree” is an autobiographical film of his childhood: part idyll, with the beauty of the countryside and closeness of his family; and part nightmare, with the sudden eruptions of violence, the deprivation, humiliation, and licensed murder of the Negro. When Gordon Parks went back to his home town to shoot the film, it was only the third time in 40 years he’d been back. Surface things had changed, but the white attitude of superiority still prevailed. “I think that the film being made there did an awful lot to dispel that. For the first time there – well, for the first time in the United States – there was a black man riding in that big crane, and he was the boss of a mostly white crew, about 200 people. They looked at this at first in utter amazement and eventually they were proud of me, because I was a local boy. It was very prideful for the Negro kids.”    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Learning Tree, written, directed and composed by Parks, 1969.The film is in Kansas, in the twenties, and the attitudes are those of the twenties, which made me uneasy as I watched it. The 15-year-old hero, Newt, testifies in court to save a white man wrongly accused of a murder that a black man did. Newt’s actions are right according to the society’s system of justice, but he never seems to question that system. It is the delinquent, half-crazed Marcus who questions it, and sees both justice and religion arranged for the convenience of the white man. Gordon Parks says, “It’s difficult to equate this film with what’s happening today. It’s a memoir. It’s not the militancy of today. Marcus was right to question the system, dead right. He was closer by far than Newt to what the black man is aware of today. But the next part of the story is much tougher – I won’t be faced with the same dilemma again. I moved on to another part of the country and learned fast what Marcus knew back there.”He was the only one of his group of friends to become successful: “The boys of my gang – there were six or seven of us – none of them lived to be men, to be 21 years old, except one. All of them are dead from some violence or other, shot or cut to death before they were men, by white society. “No wonder you get a Rapp Brown, no wonder you get a Le Roi Jones, no wonder you get a Stokely Carmichael. But you can’t really compare these kids with me, because my time was beyond their time. Black studies, the identification with Africa emerging, has instilled a lot of pride in black kids. But the black kids on the campuses are suddenly asking for separate classes and segregated dormitories. I’ve said to them, ‘Black people have fought and died that you might be here. These white kids will be the next leaders, and will reshape your lives for the next 200 years unless you get in the classrooms with them and help’.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Shaft, directed by Gordon Parks. Official trailer.