MondayThe Shepherd’s Life, James Rebanks’s book about living and working on the Lakeland Fells, has won many admirers. It’s adapted and directed for the stage by Chris Monks at the Theatre by the Lake in Keswick. Only the Brave, written by Rachel Wagstaff and directed by Steve Marmion, is a new musical set in June 1944. It’s at the Wales Millennium Centre from tonight. Long Day’s Journey into Night, starring Jeremy Irons and Lesley Manville, is at Bristol Old Vic.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Billy Howle and Jeremy Irons in Long Day’s Journey Into Night. Photograph: Hugo GlendinningTuesdayCalculating Kindness at Camden People’s theatre is about the scientist George Price, who formulated an equation for the evolution of altruism. BAC’s Homegrown festival, featuring work from young and emerging artists, begins tonight with 20 Stories High and Theatre Rites’ The Broke ’n’ Beat Collective. The Wardrobe Ensemble’s 1972: The Future of Sex is at the Bike Shed in Exeter. Filter’s hugely enjoyable and totally irreverent take on Twelfth Night is at Clwyd Theatr Cymru in Mold. The Gate in London hosts the Royal Welsh College of Music and Drama’s new writing festival, featuring plays by Elinor Cook, Ali Taylor, Joe Ward Munrow and Daf James. Amanda Whittington’s lively and enjoyable Kiss Me Quickstep moves to the Stephen Joseph in Scarborough.WednesdayAlistair McDowall had a big hit with Pomona. His latest, X, is a sci-fi drama directed by Vicky Featherstone at the Royal Court. The RSC’s A Midsummer Night’s Dream: A Play for the Nation, featuring amateur actors playing Bottom and his fellow thesps, heads to the Citizens in Glasgow. Phil Willmott’s latest musical, Princess Caraboo, is at the Finborough. David Leddy’s dystopian drama International Waters moves to the Traverse in Edinburgh.Thursday   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a clip from Tipping PointTheir Hamlet wasn’t great but let’s hope Bristol’s normally excellent Shakespeare at the Tobacco Factory finds form with All’s Well That Ends Well. The high cost of living in a capitalist world is charted in the Ricochet Project’s circus two-hander Smoke and Mirrors at Home in Manchester. Also at Home from tonight is Breach’s The Beanfield, which looks to the past to consider civil liberties and state oppression today. It’s fragile, messy, alive and alert. The lovely Tipping Point by Ockham’s Razor is at the Lighthouse in Poole.Friday and the weekendA Nation’s Theatre festival, curated by BAC, but taking place in venues all over London, begins with Target Theatre’s Made, about sweatshop workers, which is at Rich Mix, Light’s The Magic Beanstalk is at the Little Angel and Mike Kenny’s Snow White and Birdsnest’s Happy Harry’s Café are at the Polka. Tonight there are two King Lears in preview: Michael Buffong directs Don Warrington at the Royal Exchange in Manchester, while at the Royal and Derngate in Northampton, Michael Pennington is the ageing tyrant in Max Webster’s revival. Douglas Maxwell’s The Silent Treatment takes place during a sponsored silence and its written specially for the excellent learning disabled company Lung Ha. It’s at the Tron in Glasgow from tonight.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Glenn Close stars in Sunset Boulevard at London Coliseum this weekend. Photograph: Richard Hubert SmithSunset Boulevard, starring Glenn Close, starts at the London Coliseum. Playing Up, a participatory experience of live art for children and adults, starts at Tate Modern. Saturday sees the start of Eve Ensler’s three short plays about human trafficking, The Fruit Trilogy, at West Yorkshire Playhouse. Laila: The Musical is inspired by the story known as the eastern Romeo and Juliet, and is at Watford Palace from Saturday night. Finally, this weekend is your last chance to catch the Quarantine quartet Summer. Autumn. Winter. Spring at the Old Granada Studios in Manchester.