Who would have thought that Big Little Lies (Monday, 9pm, Sky Atlantic), the HBO series about a group of rich, competitive Monterey moms, would turn out to be a powerful study of friendship and trauma?Sure, it was hard at the beginning to know exactly who (or what) the show’s real stars were. Was it Hollywood A-lister Reese Witherspoon or was it her kitchen island, a gleaming marble-topped structure so vast that, were it in London, developers would turn it into an apartment block and flog it to investors in Singapore? Could it be Nicole Kidman – quiet, watchful and elegant – or her walk-in wardrobe, which isn’t really a wardrobe at all but the shopfloor of Gucci recreated next to her bathroom?These are the kind of homes that make a Schrager hotel look like a tatty B&B in Torquay, all glazed exteriors, expansive decks and infinity pools on clifftops. At times, Big Little Lies felt like the last 10 minutes of Grand Designs stretched out over a series, with us as the impoverished plebs drooling from afar.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Nicole Kidman in HBO’s Big Little Lies.There were problems, too, with the characters, some of whom you’d long to stab in the eye with their school-run stilettos. There’s Witherspoon’s Madeline, a stay-at-home mother and professional meddler engaged in a long-term feud with her ex-husband and his wife; and Laura Dern’s Renata, a tightly wound lawyer who patronises her fellow parents at school drop-off and hires more entertainers for her daughter’s birthday party than you’d find at a Cirque Du Soleil show.But as the series has developed the cliches have fallen away and most of these women have shown themselves to be more complex, flawed and interesting than their Bottega Veneta handbags would suggest. At the centre of the story is a death at a glitzy school fundraiser, the details of which remain deliberately murky. In fact, the identity of the murderer is almost superfluous to the narrative, far less important than the events that lead up to it. If the central truism – that money doesn’t buy happiness – is basic, these women are not. All have secrets, and their accompanying sadness and shame pays no heed to wealth or status.However, the biggest achievement of Big Little Lies isn’t in its location scouting or wardrobe department but its raw and nuanced portrait of the ripple effect of male violence. Jane (Shailene Woodley), a Monterey newcomer whom Madeline takes under her wing, is able to hold it together in front of her six-year-old son but, once alone, is beset by flashbacks of the rape through which he was conceived. Meanwhile, with the help of a therapist, Celeste (Kidman) is reframing her domestic situation. Her slow admission that her relationship with her husband (Alexander Skarsgård) isn’t merely volatile, and that their violent episodes aren’t born out of lust, make for some of the most intense moments of the series.Still, there are questions: what is Jane planning to do with the gun under her pillow? Who is bullying Renata’s daughter? And will Celeste find the courage to leave her abuser? This week’s season finale deals with these issues and more and is a hugely gripping piece of TV. What began as a series about female caricatures and unchecked capitalism has evolved into something else entirely: a poignant tale of survival. This is, truly, the grimmest of fairytales.