Each Wednesday evening since September, a crew of 10- to 25-year-old girls and women has been gathering at an Auburn community centre to take part in a free dance class.The girls are all new arrivals in Australia and come from a range of backgrounds: some are humanitarian entrants, others new migrants and others refugees. The class is called “groove therapy” and its aim, says teacher Vanessa Marian, is to help them build confidence and a sense of community.Marian is a 28-year-old dancer, who moved to Australia from the United Arab Emirates when she was five years old. The idea for the classes came, she says, after watching “one too many harrowing videos that week on my Facebook newsfeed.Jump First, Ask Later review: parkour stage show fails to get airborne “[There were videos of] Syria before and after it was bombed and children being pulled from the rubble and I saw trolls commenting underneath: ‘Keep them out, they’re terrorists.’ I couldn’t handle that people could look at something like that and still be so insensitive,” she says.“And then I realised it’s because they couldn’t identify with those people. When they think of Syria, they think war-torn, people rioting the streets, people in Muslim attire, their hijabs and whatnot, and it’s just so foreign. I think we need to focus on how similar these people are to us, to humanise them. I didn’t want to write a status or rant about it. I wanted to meet these people, see for myself. My skill set is dance and it was the only thing I could come up with that I could use to give back.”Marian has been giving the free hip-hop and street dance classes as part of an eight-week program, in partnership with the Western Sydney Youth Transition program run by Auburn Diversity Services. And, she says, it’s working.Why focus the classes around street dance, over other dancing styles?It’s the skills that I have to offer. But hip-hop, Afro styles, Jamaican styles – they are born out of an oppressed people, as a result of injustice. It’s a form of expression and escapism.When I went out to the desert and taught Aboriginal kids earlier this year, I found the best street dancers I’ve ever seen and they’d never taken a lesson. When you ask what hip-hop is to them, they say: “Freedom, expression, being able to be myself.”   Vanessa Marian: ‘Hip-hop, Afro styles, Jamaican styles – they are born out of an oppressed people, as a result of injustice.’ Photograph: Kurt DaviesStreet dance is so raw, it clicks with a lot of kids who are from disadvantaged backgrounds because that’s where it was born from.How have you incorporated education and English conversational skills into your dance classes?At the beginning of class, we sit around and chat, and the girls get really excited telling you about things back home, which is a cool cross-cultural exchange. I don’t know how many of them are officially refugees. We don’t focus on that, on the harrowing side of life, because this is a form of escapism and confidence building.We get them to stand up and talk into a microphone, which is terrifying for some and so liberating for the showoffs. We have these two sisters, one who’s really extroverted and one who couldn’t even say her name into the microphone. For me, that’s cool because it challenges the stereotype of refugees or Muslims girls as really timid and shy. It’s like, no, there’s just one introvert and one extrovert.They’re just kids like the rest of us. When you ask them what their favourite foods are, they’ll say kebabs and baklava but also pizza and burgers and pasta. They really funny and bubbly, really full of life, and I think that’s an important message to get out.Is it difficult to be culturally sensitive when teaching something as physical as street dance?Yes and no. I’m not going to teach a ratchet booty drop to kids, ever. I’m definitely mindful of swearing. I’ve worked with refugees before and I guess, because I’ve lived in the Middle East and I am Indian, I understand a few of those culturally sensitive things.There’s also this really awesome unity in being multicultural. I find so much solace in it, because sometimes I can feel isolated, being Indian. There’s an unspoken understanding between us as minorities, I guess because there’s culturally similar things across a lot of these countries, around being a girl and the way you should act.What kind of impact do the classes have on the girls?Tkay Maidza on bringing a new sound to Australian hip-hop: I didn’t really want to fit in They’re forming friendships and community, building skill sets like teamwork, confidence, presentation, self-determination. They’re really good things to have for life and they look impressive on a resume. The ones that come regularly are more confident and really supportive of the terrified ones; they’ll say their name and everyone cheers, so there’s definitely a cool sense of rallying.The thing is, it’s an eight-week program and it’s almost over. We’d love to gain traction to get funding to book out the hall and pay a teacher each week. Auburn Diversity Services has funding for excursions, so we’re planning employment-based excursions on alternative career paths in creative fields ... It’s a good thing for the kids to know – “Hey, this is something you can totally do in Australia.”To be able to make the dance classes an ongoing program would be so amazing, too. I’ve realised the really profound impact that a really simple weekly dance class can have on absolutely anyone.