Judging by the constant flow of sustainability announcements from companies, you could be forgiven for thinking that the route to cleaner, more responsible business is clear: a straight shot, free of obstacles and primed for smooth sailing. Whether it’s 100% renewable energy or zero deforestation, companies are making big progress on sustainability.Business leaders are not taking sustainability seriously But what we don’t often read about is what it takes to get there. The day-to-day work of making change happen is, in reality, fraught with obstacles, impediments, and delays – all of which can leave sustainability projects dead in the water.Although we rarely hear it, the truth is that sustainability wins are the result of tireless work from within an organization, whether by a fiercely committed and vocal CEO, a core sustainability team, an employee-spawned grassroots green team, workers quietly changing the way they do things – or all of the above. There’s no one path to sustainability success. Just about the only sure thing is that we rarely get a glimpse behind the curtain to see what comes before the press conference or coverage. Here’s what we do know: change from within is never easy. And the nature of the challenges is shifting.Moving from ‘why’ to ‘how’“Over the past 10 years, a lot has changed, and in some ways not enough has changed,” explains Laura Gitman, a vice president at BSR, a corporate sustainability network and consultancy. “I’d say that certainly the conversation used to be about ‘why is [sustainability] really important?’ and while that question does still come up sometimes, now we’ve moved on to the ‘how’.”In general, Gitman and others say, companies now know why they should move towards sustainability, but rarely know what to do to get there. Some companies start out with the grand vision – 100% renewable energy, or zero waste to landfill – but quickly find themselves adrift without a plan of action. Conversely, many businesses have plucked the often-harvested low-hanging fruit – energy and water efficiency, in-office recycling, reducing landfill waste – but have no grand strategy for how to get to the higher branches.Even firms that have decided on both the long term vision and the short term strategy face hindrances. One of the common challenges involves changing the culture of a company to get everyone onboard, especially if employee compensation isn’t tied to sustainability performance.Perhaps the most high profile way of changing course is when a CEO gets behind the wheel. There may be no more prominent example than Apple CEO Tim Cook, who last year made a blunt but profound decree about the company’s goals for operating for the greater good. The good, the bad and the ugly: sustainability at Nespresso At Apple’s 2014 annual meeting, an incensed Cook rebuffed a question from climate deniers about investing only in profitable projects – in other words, shifting Apple’s focus away from renewable energy and other sustainability efforts. “When we work on making our devices accessible by the blind, I don’t consider the bloody ROI,” Cook told Justin Danhof of the National Center for Public Policy Research, a climate-denier network. “If you want me to do things only for ROI reasons, you should get out of this stock.”That level of support from a CEO is as powerful as it is uncommon. “That was a historic moment,” says Natasha Scotnicki, the senior program director of Ceres’ corporate program, noting how rare it is for the CEO to lead a corporate sustainability mission from the inside while also calling on policymakers and peer companies to drive change. There’s a potential downside from strong CEO leadership on corporate sustainability, however: CEOs depart. “We see often that there is a lot of CEO change,” Scotnicki says, adding that having a sustainability strategy that extends to leaders below the top spot is “critical to sustaining the organization for the long term and maintaining shareholder value for the long term”.“Sustainability is by default a long term issue and requires a long term plan,” Gitman says, “so restructuring often thrusts companies into a challenging area or even chaos.” Where do we go from here?More often than not, the true front lines of sustainability aren’t in the C-suite, but take the form of large and small skirmishes throughout a workplace. Social and environmental issues come up in nearly every role and every department, and every employee can do something, whether it’s starting a recycling program or drawing up a corporate sustainability policy. We’re looking for people who make sustainability happen from within. You may be the chief executive or the chief sustainability officer, but it’s just as likely that you’re elsewhere on the organizational chart. Perhaps you sit on the board of directors, or maybe you’re a project manager working out in the field. Regardless of your position, your passion for sustainability puts you on the front lines of change, and we want to hear from you.Are you secretly your company's chief sustainability officer? If you’ve got a story to tell or lessons to share, please get in touch. We’ve created an easy form you can fill out – you can even remain anonymous, if you prefer. Because no matter how inspiring the success stories may be, those sustainability victories will be much harder to achieve without knowing the warty details of what works, what doesn’t, and what obstacles you can expect to face on your company’s sustainability journey.This series, Business sustainability: tales from the front lines, is funded by The B Team. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled “brought to you by”. Find out more here.