The funniest standup I’ve ever seen Phil Kay. I just love the way he makes you feel exhilarated to be alive. The first time I gigged with him was about five or six years ago when he told a story about eating rubbish from a bin. I was utterly hooked.The funniest sketch I’ve ever seen Cardinal Burns’ rap battle from their TV show. Dustin has a battle with a genuinely good rapper who’s taking it seriously, whereas Dustin’s rhymes are like nursery rhymes. I must have watched it over 100 times.The funniest TV show I’ve ever seen The only show that will make me laugh out loud no matter what is The Inbetweeners, which should never be dismissed as just knob gags. The dynamic between the school friends is universally recognisable, and yes there are knob gags, but they’re funny because of the characters who are making them.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Isy Suttie’s six tips for meeting The Actual OneThe funniest number Eight – why is that? Who knows? It’s funnier than 12, though, for example. Ending in a consonant is imperative. Twenty-two just drifts off.The funniest hairstyle I’ve ever had Monk bowl with 1cm fringe. My college boyfriend cut my fringe one night on a whim (with my consent), and it was so short I either had to wear a bandanna or wax it on to my forehead.The funniest book I’ve ever read The Secret Diary Of Adrian Mole – and it really stands up to the test of time. I read it again recently and it was still as funny, and also sadder than the first time.The funniest heckle I’ve ever had I’ll pay you £20 to get off. It didn’t seem funny at the time, but most heckles don’t. I was at Edinburgh festival in 2005 and I was doing a misguided bit about a squirrel biting my hand. I got the £20. I wish I’d asked for more.The funniest joke I’ve ever heard I don’t know who wrote this: A boy ran into a chip shop as they were about to close and breathlessly asked the owner if they had any left. The owner said, “Yes, we do!” and the boy said, “Well you shouldn’t have cooked so many then.”Isy Suttie: The Actual One –Book Tour is touring to 24 Oct