Just because you don’t work in an office or a factory doesn’t automatically mean you don’t work. Says who? Says the Office for National Statistics. For the first time the ONS has officially quantified the home production economy. It’s worth a mere £1 trillion, since you ask. Hallelujah and about time, mumble millions of homeworkers, carers and floor-scrubbers.Home production economy worth £1tn a year If government officers spent more time reading history, they would possibly have worked this out a long time ago. The word “economy” would have tipped them off. As would the term “housework”. Economy is derived from Greek, meaning management of a household or family. And in English, until the Industrial Revolution, housework meant the work of the house – the work that needed to be done to keep a family afloat, be it cooking and cleaning, or agriculture or craft.Because, for thousands of years, “work” was for the most part done at home, whether you were a doctor, or a lawyer, or a carpenter, or a shoemaker. Tasks were divided along gender lines – there were areas of work that were generally accepted to be “women’s work” or “men’s work” – but it was intertwined, and it all went to maintain the house and family. Men looked after the cattle, women did the milking; men butchered the meat, women cooked it. Men cut the leather for shoes and did the heavy punchwork, women did the fine sewing.This joint labour was not a secret. In 16th-century wills, men frequently called their wives “fellow labourers”. But as industrialisation crept on, factories replaced home-created piecework, and work became something that went on in specialist locations, and was something for which the labourer was paid in cash. If you weren’t paid, and you didn’t go somewhere else to do it, it wasn’t work. Wives were no longer fellow labourers. Now they were more frequently named in wills merely as the source of “wise Advices”, dispensed by “holy Examples” and “devout prayers” . Work is professions and trades, and it is also mopping the floor and doing the school run In 2001 the government took a token step towards returning to the older, wider understanding of work when they used the census to count the number of unpaid carers. By 2011, the scale was clear: 5.8 million people in England and Wales – more than a tenth of the population – worked at a job that had previously been invisible.What the ONS has done is important, for by putting a value on the unpaid economy of domestic labour it is admitting that work is, beyond question, work. Work is earning money, and it is also childcare. Work is professions and trades, and it is also mopping the floor and doing the school run.While they get a small pat on the back for that, quantifying that work is fairly straightforward. Childcare, nursing, cleaning are all tasks that can be outsourced. If they can be outsourced, they can be paid for, and therefore to the bean counters they are work. But this still needs to be taken further.For work is keeping both house and family afloat. Consider all the work done every day that has no name but keeps a family functioning.Not just making sure that Ronnie has clean gym kit on Mondays, but also that Ronnie sees his grandmother. The work involved in making sure his grandfather’s birthday isn’t overlooked. Remembering whose turn it is to host Christmas, and making sure there are no peanuts in the meal so that Aunt Bella can come, while wrangling the smaller children away from the cousin no one likes but who must be invited to keep her mother happy.These are activities one might call kin care or family care: the maintenance of relationships, of visits, the co-ordination of schedules, the remembering of birthdays, the sending of Christmas presents. This is work too.No doubt government advisers will roll their eyes, but 50 years ago they would have rolled their eyes at the notion that cleaning the ring out of the bath was worthy of being designated work. Yet thanks to the ONS, we now know that bath-ring cleaning is part of this £1tn industry.So let us be completely clear: housework is the work of the household, by the household, for the household. You don’t have to go somewhere special to do it; and it doesn’t become real simply because cash is handed over for its performance. If it keeps the household functioning physically, mentally or emotionally, it is housework. Let us celebrate it. And for God’s sake, let it be valued. It is valuable.