On 21 September 2014, 400,000 climate activists gathered in New York City for the People’s Climate March, an 85-block-long tide of humanity walking from Central Park to the UN. The purpose? To demand that world leaders take meaningful measures to address climate change. I was a drop in that ocean.Since then I have been slowly traveling the world for a year, mostly by bicycle, to collect 1,001 stories from people I meet about water and climate change. Sometimes I make an audio recording of their story. The bicycle is my primary mode of transportation, but by no reason the main focus of my trip. I use my bicycle as a tool for human connection – a way of meeting people and listening to their stories about water and climate change. Slow cycling, for me, means valuing human interactions over speed. I don’t tally the kilometers as I go. I’m not competing with anyone. There’s no windscreen between me and the elements. My only goal is to listen. When I stop in a place long enough to listen, I meet people, many of whom are interested in what the heck a 23-year-old woman is doing riding her bicycle alone around the world. They offer me all kinds of help, whether it’s water to fill my bottles, a place to pitch a tent for the night or, more often than not, a shower, meal, and a place to sleep in a spare room or mattress on the floor. These are the benefits of traveling as a solo female; while I might be excluded from some spaces, I am welcomed into so many more.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Devi Lockwood disembarks the ANL Bindaree cargo ship that took her from New Zealand to Australia. Photograph: Devi LockwoodIn the past 12 months, I have traveled slowly in the US, Fiji, Tuvalu, New Zealand, and Australia. I have no intentions of stopping soon.This project draws inspiration from a shorter solo trip I took down the Mississippi River in 2013 when I biked 800 miles from Memphis, Tennessee to Venice, Louisiana, following the river to its mouth at the Gulf of Mexico. Along the way I made more than 50 hours of audio recordings of stories people told me. The farther down the Mississippi River I cycled, the more people told me about the changing coastline in Louisiana.I met 57-year-old Franny Connetti 80 miles south of New Orleans. When I stopped in front of her office to check the air in my tires, she invited me to get out of the afternoon sun. Over a shared plate of fried shrimp, Connetti told me about 2012’s Hurricane Isaac that washed away her home and her neighborhood.“We fight for protection of our levees. We fight for our marsh every time we have a hurricane,” she said.Despite that, she and her husband moved back to their plot of land in a mobile home just a few months after the disaster. “I couldn’t imagine living anywhere else,” she said. “Do you think there will come a time when people can’t live here anymore?” I asked. “I think so. Not in my lifetime, but you’ll probably see it.”The ever-expanding human population is putting stresses on the environment that are unique. I have begun to analyze my daily habits in a different way – how am I complicit in environmental racism, and how can I contribute to environmental justice?In New Zealand, after meeting climate activist Chris Watson, author of Beyond Flying, I decided to stop flying to reduce my environmental footprint. I crowdfunded the money to take a cargo ship across the Tasman Sea and am getting ready to hitch a ride on a yacht from Australia to Indonesia.Most of my interactions on the road are purely serendipitous – Peggy Dutton, a woman I met outside a grocery store in Agnes Water, Australia took one look at my loaded down bicycle and said, “You must be traveling a long distance.”Dutton, a cyclist herself, invited me to stay with her family for the night, which turned into two. In our time together we mounded potatoes, rode our bikes to the beach, and shared stories about water birth and love. When she sent me off she called ahead to friends in the Boyne Valley– Blair and Rebecca Smith, who let me sleep in their daughter’s room. Blair Smith, a former professional basketball player, spoke with me about the exceptional number of 100-year floods the Boyne Valley has experienced in the last five years. “Where I work in Monto, we’ve had five major floods in the last three years where the farmers have lost their crops every time. They lose their fences. I guess that’s the climate changing,” he said. This is only a taste of the 412 stories I have recorded in the last year of travel. The aim is to create an archive. I want to get people listening to each other – it’s all about human connection. If this archive can be a small way of getting people talking about water and climate change within their own communities, then I hope I’ve done something worthwhile.