JMW Turner, one of Britain’s greatest painters, is to be the face of the new £20 note, following a nationwide vote.It will be the first time an artist has appeared on a British banknote, after the governor of the Bank of England, Mark Carney, asked the public to nominate a deceased cultural figure they felt deserved the high honour.Turner, renowned for his dramatic seascapes, beat off competition from 590 painters, sculptors, fashion designers, photographers, film-makers and actors put forward by 30,000 members of the public.JMW Turner may be a safe choice for new £20 note – but it's deserved The list included Alfred Hitchcock, Alexander McQueen, Derek Jarman, Laura Ashley, Francis Bacon, William Morris and Vanessa Bell, which was then narrowed down by a panel of artists, critics and historians to a final choice of five.The final five – Barbara Hepworth, Charlie Chaplin, Josiah Wedgewood, William Hogarth and Turner – were selected on the basis of their “unquestioned” contribution to both the visual arts and British society as a whole, as well as their enduring influence. Fittingly, the announcement of the new banknote was made at the Turner Contemporary gallery in Margate, which stands on the former site of Mrs Booth’s lodging house, where Turner would always stay when he visited. The announcement was made jointly by Carney and the artist Tracey Emin, who grew up in the town.Carney said it had been “so important to get this right, and have a proper process that involved the public”, adding that far from banknotes being purely a practical necessity, “if done properly they can be a piece of art in everyone’s pocket”.“Money is memory for a country and its people,” said the Bank of England governor. “Banknotes of the Bank of England are a celebration of the UK’s heritage, a salute to its culture, a testament to its great achievements, including those of its most notable citizens. In short, money has not just economic value, it has cultural value as well.“Turner is arguably the single most influential British artist of all time. His work was transformative and endures today. And his work will now feature on another 2bn works of art – our new £20 notes.”Emin expressed particular joy that Turner, who she cited as a major influence growing up as an “outcast” artist in Margate, had been chosen.“The fact that we have this on the £20 note shows now that the British people are a nation of people who appreciate creativity and appreciate the arts,” said Emin.“Turner lived his life to full, in a very passionate and wild way. His paintings were wild, and the way he treated nature, the sky, the sea was all about fecundity and a surging, deep internal combustion.”Asked whether Turner would approve of his face and his painting appearing on polymer – a plastic-type material that the new notes will all be made from – Emin said that while “money is supposed to be dirty and art is supposed to be spiritual, I think his ego would definitely approve”.The note will feature Turner’s 1799 self-portrait, which currently hangs in Tate Britain, as well as one of Turner’s most recognisable works, The Fighting Temeraire; a tribute to the ship which played a distinguished role in Nelson’s victory at the battle of Trafalgar in 1805.Emblazoned on the note will also be a quote from the artist, “light is therefore colour”, as well as his signature taken from his will, in which he bequeathed many of his works to the nation. The new £20 note, which replaces the one featuring social philosopher and economic theorist Adam Smith, will enter circulation by 2020. This is the first time the public have been given a say over whose face appears on a British banknotes.  Carney overhauled the process in 2013, following a high-profile campaign to ensure that women, apart from the Queen, remained on banknotes, after the Bank decided to phase out the Elizabeth Fry £5 note.Historical figures were first introduced on to banknotes in 1970. Turner joins Winston Churchill and Jane Austen as the significant figures who will feature on the new polymer notes – Churchill on the £5 and Austen on £10. Following in the footsteps of Florence Nightingale and Elizabeth Fry, the Pride and Prejudice author is only the third woman to be the face of British currency.Turner was born in 1775 in London, the son of a barber, and he entered the Royal Academy Schools at the age of 14. It was 1786, when he was sent to Margate, that his love affair with painting and drawing the north-east Kent coast began. He would return to that coast throughout his life, and it was where he painted some of his most dramatic oils and watercolours, describing its skies as “the loveliest in all Europe”.Turner was a particularly prolific artist, producing more than 550 oil paintings, 2,000 watercolours, and 30,000 paper work over his lifetime. His life was also the recent subject of a film by Mike Leigh, with Timothy Spall taking on the role of the complex artist.Victoria Pomery, the director of Turner Contemporary, said: “The decision to celebrate JMW Turner, one of the greatest technical pioneers in the history of British art, is extraordinary, not least because it has proven by a public vote that Turner is the nation’s favourite artist. Brilliantly, it is an official acknowledgment of the immense historical value of the visual arts to the UK. “But it is also a stark reminder that we must place increasing value on our future as a nation of creative minds. We must invest to support the next great artists and innovators.”