Memorable food often comes from humble beginnings. When I was at cookery school in Cork, I remember a party at Gubbeen Farm where a deceptively simple soup of potatoes, thyme and chorizo oil left me mesmerised; this was all of 15 years ago, but I remember it as clearly as yesterday. I have had similar epiphanies, including at Noma in Copenhagen (a charred spring onion puree) and at Hartwood in Tulum, Mexico (wood-baked beetroot), so I hope you’ll give today’s simple-sounding recipes a go: they are comforting, rich in flavour and deeply satisfying.Plaice with potatoes baked in anchovy creamThe garlicky anchovy cream blankets the spuds, and the oven turns them into a silky, golden mass. Serves six.1kg white floury potatoes2 lemons, 1 cut into wedges, the other halved1 large or 2 medium onions½ head garlic6 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil10 anchovy fillets1 dried chilli, crumbled500ml double cream3-4 branches rosemary, leaves picked and finely chopped1 small handful fresh thyme sprigsSea salt and freshly ground black pepper1.2kg plaicePeel the spuds and cut into 1- to 2mm-thick slices (use a mandoline, if you have one). Put the slices in a bowl, cover with cold water and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Peel the onion and cut it in half, then into wafer-thin slices.Bash the head of garlic with a rolling pin to separate the cloves, then whack each clove once or twice, to break the skin. Peel off and discard the skins, then finely chop the garlic. Heat four tablespoons of the oil in a frying pan on a medium flame, then fry the garlic, anchovies and chilli, breaking up the anchovies with a wooden spoon. Don’t let the garlic burn – if it starts catching, turn down the heat a little. After a few minutes, the garlic should be soft and not coloured, and the anchovies dissolved into a paste. Add the cream and the rosemary and thyme leaves (reserve a few thyme stalks for later). Bring to a simmer, then take off the heat and season to taste (the anchovies are already salty, so you may not need much salt).Heat the oven to 160C/320F/gas mark 2½. Drain and pat dry the potatoes and put back in the bowl. Add the onion and the cream mix, toss to combine, then arrange in two overlapping layers in a wide baking dish. Pour over any cream left in the bowl and gently press down the mix to level it out. Top with the reserved thyme stalks and bake for an hour.Remove the spuds and leave them to rest while you get on with the fish. Turn up the oven to 200C/390F/gas mark 6. Cut the remaining lemon half into very thin slices and lay over a medium baking tray, making a bed for the plaice. Put the fish on top, drizzle over the rest of the oil, season generously and bake for 20 minutes, until tender and flaking apart.Divide the fish between six plates and serve with the potatoes and wedges of lemon. Follow with a well-dressed, crisp green salad.Grilled hispi cabbage with celeriac mash and ancho relish      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Thomasina Miers’ grilled hispi cabbage with celeriac mash and ancho relish. Photograph: Louise Hagger for the Guardian. Food styling: Emily Kydd. Prop styling: Jennifer KayThis unusual meat- and dairy-free main course works without the chilli relish, which you have to make ahead of time, but it is very special with it. If your local shops don’t stock anchos, they are widely available online from the big supermarkets as well as independents. Serves four.For the ancho relish8 ancho (or aleppo) chillies, stems removed, deseeded3 banana shallots, peeled and finely chopped4 garlic cloves, peeled and finely chopped150ml red-wine vinegar300ml olive oilFor the celeriac mash60ml olive oil1kg celeriac, peeled and cut into 1cm cubes3 sprigs fresh thyme, picked and chopped2 garlic cloves, peeled and finely choppedFor the cabbage2 hispi cabbages, outer leaves discarded, cut into quarters through stem2 big handfuls each parsley and tarragon leaves, roughly choppedFirst make the relish. Roughly rip up the chillies, then pulse in a food processor until broken into pieces the size of small snowflakes. Transfer to a bowl, then stir in the rest of the relish ingredients. Season to taste and leave to macerate for at least a few hours, and preferably overnight (the flavour will keep improving over several weeks).For the mash, heat 40ml oil in a large pan on a medium-high flame, then add the celeriac, thyme and garlic, season well and fry, stirring once or twice, for five minutes, until the celeriac starts to brown. Turn the heat to low, add 75ml cold water, cover and cook for 20-25 minutes, until very soft. Roughly mash the celeriac, stir in the remaining 20ml oil and season to taste. Keep warm.The weekend cook: Thomasina Miers’ recipes for curried dal and winter drop scones Bring a large pan of salted water to a boil, blanch the cabbage wedges for three minutes, then lift out of the water and leave to steam dry. Meanwhile, heat a large griddle pan or grill and, once hot, char the cabbage wedges on both sides, until they are covered in dark char marks and the edges are crisp.Divide the celeriac mash between four warm plates and top each serving with two cabbage wedges. Spoon over some of the relish, then dribble a little oil from the relish over the top. Sprinkle with herbs – be generous – and serve at once.And for the rest of the week…Make lots of the relish, because it keeps for months in the fridge, covered with a film of olive oil. It’s a knockout with grilled pork or beef, on stir-fries or with roast monkfish or salmon; or have it with a cheesy, buttery baked potato. The mash, too, goes with just about anything. And do consider making double the amount of the creamy potatoes: they freeze well, and are very tasty reheated in a frying pan and eaten with a fried egg on top.