In a potentially big win for Latin American rainforests, Archer Daniels Midland, the third largest global supplier of agricultural commodities, has adopted a draft policy to end deforestation across its supply chains. The company is expected to formally announce the new plan at its shareholders meeting Thursday.ADM’s commitment rivals that of palm oil giant Wilmar’s anti-deforestation promise in 2013. This time, the product in question isn’t palm oil, but soybeans. ADM is one of the world’s leading soy traders and a top soy exporter in Latin America, where expanding production is a leading driver of deforestation across the Amazon and the Gran Chaco forest.It’s a pressing problem: Forest Trends, a Washington-based international nonprofit organization, estimates that 50%-70% of soy exports – about 31m tons – have displaced forests in Brazil, Bolivia, Uruguay and Paraguay. This isn’t ADM’s first agricultural commitment to Brazil. The company abides by both the Brazil Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources’ embargo and the 2006 Brazilian Soy Moratorium (SoyM), a voluntary commitment to avoid trading, acquiring or financing soybeans from areas of the Amazon Biome that were deforested after July 2006.But ADM’s new policy does advance from previous commitments. The centerpiece of the new move is a pilot version of the company’s Responsible Soy Standard, which it is launching with a group of Brazilian growers. Under the program, expert third party inspectors will conduct yearly assessments to determine if growers are adhering to a broad set of social, environmental, legal and agronomic standards. Among other things, the program will grade farmers on their labor practices, water and soil usage, solid waste management, observance of land rights, legal compliance and fertilizer consumption.Local and national interests clash in Indonesia's palm oil industry In concept, ADM’s new proposal is a bold step that could shift the industry standard in anti-deforestation policies. However, it will be some time before it yields any significant results. Starting this year, ADM will work with a third-party expert to map its soy supply chain against peatlands, high carbon stock forests and high conservation value areas. Afterward, it will develop an action plan towards a more sustainable, traceable soybean supply chain to help protect these areas.Soy vs palmPalm oil’s use in a wide variety of consumer products, together with the heavy impact that its cultivation has had on forests in Indonesia and Malaysia, has made it a priority commodity for conservationists and for sustainably minded companies. For the last few years, it has been the most heavily publicized commodity in the fight against deforestation. The attention has paid off: Wilmar, Cargill and ConAgra have all made noteworthy conservation commitments. But while 117 private companies have made commitments to reduce the impact of their palm oil involvement, only 27 have done the same for soy, according to Forest Trends’ Supply Change project.Wilmar’s and Cargill’s commitments are cross-commodity policies, which means that they cover all commodities in their supply chains. However, action from these companies has largely focused on palm oil. They have not included specifics for soy sourcing, says Lucia von Reusner, shareholder advocate at Green Century Capital Management, an investment advisory firm that manages several environmentally responsible mutual funds.In an email to the Guardian, a representative for Wilmar’s said the company was “focusing on getting the palm oil sector right first before extending the policy to other product sectors”. Could ADM’s announcement this week accelerate that expansion? The companies have a close relationship: ADM holds an 18.1% stake in Wilmar, and its CEO, Juan R Luciano, sits on Wilmar’s board. ADM is also a key supplier of soy to Wilmar. The two companies have collaborated since the mid-1990s, when they jointly built a network of soybean processing operations in China. The companies have significant supplier relationships with one another and collaborate on sales and marketing of tropical oils in Europe, Wilmar’s spokesperson said, adding that both companies were committed to delinking their business operations from deforestation.McDonald's to axe deforestation from its global supply chain “If Wilmar is serious about applying its no-deforestation commitment cross-commodity, it really depends on ADM’s participation,” Von Reusner said. “Their partnership cannot be overstated.” The competitive nature of the agricultural industry means that ADM’s commitment could encourage other companies to make soy-focused commitments, she added.In its effort to encourage more companies to adopt no-deforestation policies, Green Century Capital Management filed a shareholder proposal with Bunge, another giant agricultural trader and one of ADM’s primary competitors, asking the company to set clear goals for reducing its role in deforestation. Bunge declined.In a statement to the Guardian, Bunge highlighted its involvement in SoyM and said that it has a long record of working to reduce deforestation in agricultural supply chains. It is committed to working with interested stakeholders to develop responsible and sustainable initiatives that will reduce deforestation at scale, a company spokesperson wrote in an email. “We have been, since day one, and continue to be, a leader of the soy moratorium in the Amazon and recently announced a zero-deforestation palm oil policy.”Von Reusner acknowledged Bunge’s participation in SoyM, but noted that the moratorium in Brazil covers only a limited portion of the company’s soy supply chain.Results?Brazil’s work on Amazon soy production, while significant, may have simply shifted the problem elsewhere, experts say. Much of the conversion of natural ecosystems for soy cultivation actually occurs outside of the Amazon now, in the drier forests and savannas of the Cerrado and Gran Chaco, according to Crystal Davis, director of Global Forest Watch (GFW). This includes areas in Paraguay, Bolivia and Argentina.Research by University of Wisconsin professor Holly Gibbs found that the Brazilian soy industry’s moratorium significantly decreased deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon, but that rates of deforestation in the Cerrado and other eco regions not covered by the moratorium, as well as in the Amazon biome outside of Brazil, increased.Big soy: small Paraguayan farmers fighting back against global agribusiness The voluntary private sector-led moratorium outperformed the legally mandated Brazilian Forest Code, the study found. “Only 115 people out of several thousand soy farmers have violated the Soy Moratorium since 2006, but over 600 of them have violated the Forest Code,” Gibbs said. “So this same group of farmers is five times more likely to violate the governmental policy than they are to violate the private sector agreement.”Zero-deforestation policies like Wilmar’s are definitely sending a strong market signal, but it remains to be seen whether real change will result, Davis said: “While some of these commitments went into effect immediately, others are not due until the end of 2015. GFW’s near-real-time forest monitoring systems will tell us whether or not the policies are working over time.”Deforestation in Indonesia and Malaysia, which together produce more than 80% of the world’s palm oil, dropped significantly in 2013, according to GFW, which expects to publish new data later this year. However, the drop predates most zero-deforestation commitments, including Wilmar’s. “It is not yet clear that the drop is connected,” Davis said. “We are also hesitant to indicate a trend with just one year of data in a new direction.”The role of business in development hub is funded by Business Call to Action. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled “brought to you by”. Find out more here.