The X Factor 8pm, ITVIt’s the final! A pre-Christmas tradition as forced, unfestive and yet strangely essential as sherry in dusty glasses round at your weird auntie’s. This year looks like a battle between two balladeers trading slightly bum high notes, with the early favourite – threateningly eyebrowed Matt Terry – recently overtaken by Finnish diva Saara Aalto. If they destroy each other in a frenzy of dry ice and key changes, slick boyband 5 After Midnight might cause a shock. Jack SealeStrictly Come Dancing 6.50pm, BBC1It’s semi-final time and the four remaining couples must perform two dances in the hope of getting one step nearer to the glitterball trophy. Still in the running are back-flipping gymnast Claudia Fragapane, slick Hollyoaker Danny Mac, lovable sports presenter Ore Oduba and Louise Redknapp, who is loosening up as the show goes on. Tune in for dancefloor showdowns and – on Sunday’s results show – a live performance from Sting. Hannah VerdierWalt Disney 8.45pm, BBC2Before Disney became a global megabrand, the name belonged to a keen young animator, generating fare for the likes of Missouri’s Laugh-O-Gram Studio. This first of a two-part doc, this programme follows Disney’s early years, gambling a fledgling reputation on long shots such as a talkative rodent or the hitherto-unimaginable task of a feature-length cartoon. Filled with fascinating flotsam from the archives, it’s an intriguing insight into the pioneering studio. Mark Gibbings-JonesModus 9pm, BBC4The stylish Swedish thriller continues, with psychologist Inger finally beginning to piece together what’s really happening. Considering she and copper sidekick Ingvar are chasing a killer who seems positively intent on being caught, it seems a rather overdue development. No matter, there are more than enough intriguing elements and plot twists here. In tonight’s double bill, there’s another homophobic murder and we finally learn bishop Elisabeth’s secret. Jonathan WrightRauschenberg: American Art Pioneer9.45pm, BBC2A gorgeous, playful exploration of the icon of postwar US art, currently enjoying a retrospective at the Tate Modern. As presenter Alastair Sooke says, the man’s “endless curiosity saw him rewrite the rule book”, constantly reinventing and anticipating every major art movement from the 1950s onward. Rather lovely accompanying soundtrack, too, featuring Eno, Talking Heads and Nick Drake. Ali Catterall Scorpion 9pm, ITV2The US show about crime-solving best-bud geniuses continues on its digressive path. As you may have already gathered, it’s more nerdy romcom than Agents Of SHIELD, and tonight we watch what happens when the amiable Walter travels to Ireland. Ostensibly, he’s there to commemorate his deceased sister Megan, but then an environmental disaster intervenes. Now he must try to work with Tim, who is having cosy nights in with Paige. John RobinsonThe Queen’s Sister 7.15am, YesterdayIrreverent but somehow affectionate 2005 biopic of Princess Margaret, with a terrific turn from Lucy Cohu in the title role. It depicts a life shunted off the rails by the refusal of the establishment to allow her to marry divorced RAF fighter ace Peter Townsend, portraying a princess who subsequently made the most of her privilege but – possibly to placate viewers’ rage – was nevertheless thoroughly miserable. Andrew MuellerFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stellar cast … Peter Ustinov and David Niven in classic Agatha Christie adaptation Death on the Nile. Photograph: RONALD GRANTDeath on the Nile (John Guillermin, 1978) 1.30pm, ITVAn Agatha Christie mystery with a stellar cast, this is a sequel-of-sorts to the classy Murder on the Orient Express. Peter Ustinov is an impressive Hercule Poirot, faced with a luxury cruise liner full of suspects after the killing of spoilt heiress Lois Chiles. Among those on board are Bette Davis, Angela Lansbury, Maggie Smith, Mia Farrow and Jon Finch. Anthony Powell won an Oscar for his costume designs, but Guillermin lacks the deft touch of Lumet on the Orient Express. Paul HowlettThe Anomaly (Noel Clarke, 2014) 11.35pm, Film4Noel Clarke directs himself in this enterprising though ultimately underwhelming sci-fi. He plays soldier Ryan, who wakes up to find strange biotech forces messing with his brain in a story that references everything from The Matrix to Looper. But if the multiple-realities thread wears a little thin, there are plenty of buffed bods and lots of slow-mo action besides. PHJackpot (Magnus Martens, 2011) 1.05am, BBC2Just the thing for Scandi-noir fans: a gripping thriller set in the Norway-Sweden borderland, where wry detective Solør (Henrik Mestad) is investigating a bloody Christmas massacre at a strip club. Based on a Jo Nesbø novel, it expertly blends nuts-and-bolts police work, suspense and dark humour. PHToday’s best live sportPremier League Football: Leicester City v Manchester City 5pm, BT Sport 1 The Foxes continue their stumbling title defence against one of their possible successors.Boxing: Anthony Joshua v Eric Molina 5pm, Sky Sports Box Office From the Manchester Arena.Test Cricket: India v England 3.45am, Sky Sports 2 Day four of the fourth Test from Mumbai.