I tried, for a while, to be in movies. Or rather, my mother and I tried, because that’s the nature of child actors – they require adult sponsorship, the parental momentum taking over when the child’s interest falters. I missed days of school to attend auditions in various low-ceilinged rooms in Burbank, toting my headshots in a fake leather portfolio like a grim little businessman. I ate bowl after bowl of ice-cream for an ice-cream commercial, did a catalogue shoot on a soundstage where bright, fake leaves blew in front of industrial fans. I was not a happy child: this all seemed like a vision of what the world could be. A world free of sharp edges.I read for the parts of girls who spoke in full sentences and played soccer, girls who wore capri pants and collared shirts in Liberty prints and kept up sexless crushes on boy neighbours. These were girls unlike any girls I knew, but that was part of the pact, the lie we were all creating together: the characters weren’t realistic, but they offered the chance to participate in a world in which daughters would ask mothers to buy them their first bra, where daughters would confess the benign secrets of their hearts. The characters were sometimes embarrassed or ashamed, but in neat, normal ways, ways that were easily assuaged by a mother sharing her own experiences on the drive to soccer practice. I did not recognise this world but I wished I did, and for a while, believed that these precise falsehoods were vastly preferable to the indignities and messes of real life.This was the same period of my adolescence when my mother shaved her head without warning, brown stubble encasing her head like a little cap. Her scalp newly visible, weight falling from her, though I wouldn’t see to what extent until I was an adult, when photographs from that time shock me. She grimaces in almost every one, like the camera is a joke she is playing on herself.My mother took me to every audition. Navigating the rental car through the sunny streets of Los Angeles with directions printed off the internet. Reading magazines in the waiting room with the other mothers (they were always mothers). Mothers who sometimes ran through lines with their daughters with military intensity, mothers who sat up straight and lovely on the edge of their chairs as if their politeness would have some bearing on the casting director’s choice. Their fates were tied to whatever went on behind the door, their children gone to the place they could not follow.I was superstitious. Wearing the same outfit to every audition. Keeping little private rules about how many sticks of gum to chew beforehand, how to crease the pages of my script in half lengthwise. Tricks to make myself believe the stakes were low, nonexistent, like the mothers in the room who tried to keep up casual conversation with their daughters about softball practices or family dinners, though their tones were forced and obvious – nobody really believed they cared about anything outside of that room. I had to press my nose to an actor’s nose to see if we looked alike. I tried not to breathe in her face. The auditions went badly, unless they went well. I couldn’t track what the difference was, what accounted for the positive responses in the casting director, the rising smile in their voice or the request to go through the scene again. When they asked if they could speak to your mother – the sure sign of a second audition – you’d re-enter the waiting room and whisper to her without looking at anyone else, though of course the others knew exactly what had happened, exactly what blessing had been visited upon you.I got a second audition for a part in a campy TV movie, then got called back a third time. The casting director asked me to throw tennis balls from a bucket, one by one, into the lush yard of the Beverly Hills hotel. Possibly to test my athleticism. I threw as hard as I could; no one seemed concerned with getting them back. I had to press my nose to an actor’s nose while they filmed our faces in profile. To see if we looked enough alike to play the same character at different ages. I didn’t know who the actor was, then: she was kind enough and wore a black turtleneck. I tried not to breathe in her face.I got the part. A hairdresser dyed my hair black. They paid for me to take tennis lessons in the yard of a rented mansion, but when I failed to grasp even the basics, they got me a stunt double who was my exact height and build, each of us a blurry reflection of the other. We were wary, the girl and I, shaking hands on set, disturbed by the thought of someone displacing the exact same space in the world.For that week of filming, it was like I had a new team of parents, professionals who invested time and money in making certain I would perform well. On-set teachers who went over homework with me, line by line. Makeup artists who applied tinted balm to my cheeks, murmuring idle gossip about celebrities I had never heard of while they surveyed my face. I didn’t think about the limits of this world, of the time when the filming of my few scenes would be over and I would have to return to my own house, the room I shared with two of my six siblings, the flickering lights of my seventh grade classroom. I thought the blessing would never end. And my mother must have felt it too: she had met people who would chat with her during downtime, crew members who brought her bottles of water, other parents of kid actors who would commiserate over work permits and Screen Actors Guild dues. She belonged and so did I, marked by rare luck, sanctioned by all the busyness and effort that surrounded us. And who wouldn’t want to believe that the world took notice of you, made a space for you, fussed over your presence and wished for your success?The final day on set was harried. We were late for my call time, stuck in traffic. The director paced, unhappily, while the hairdresser scorched me with a hairdryer, teasing my fringe into a cartoonish 50s puff. It was a dinner scene, and the dialogue was inane, blunt; my character and her mother having a bleating argument over which sports were “lady-like” enough to play. Even at that age, I felt some trepidation over my lines. “I want to be the greatest female tennis player in the world” – did people actually say things like this? And did they say things like this to their mothers and fathers, reveal the plain wishes thumping away in their hearts, just over dinner? I took my seat at the table on set, waiting for the crew to finish making adjustments. Then everything was ready, the lights angled and specific. I had not felt it so clearly, before – the strange country of the film set, the entire lovely world on offer – it only existed as long as I could give them what they needed. I did very badly. I stumbled over my lines, had to start again. Wasting take after take Kids are unreliable actors, and so the movie people had their magic tricks: the menthol they blew into your eyes to make them tear up. Creative cuts and edits. Pulling away at the necessary instant or dubbing the lines later. But those things didn’t help, not really. Because when I had to deliver, the moment the camera was rolling and 100 crew members were gathered, waiting for me to fulfil my end of the bargain, I did very badly. I stumbled over my lines, had to start again. Wasting take after take. My voice gone strident and false, my face caricaturing emotion. The director tried to trick me into repeating the accident of my audition performance, tried to talk life into me. The director, in whose face, even at 12, I could sense something desperate crack, some angry wish that I give her what I had given before. And maybe my mother was upset, too, or embarrassed, confused about why I was causing problems. Maybe she still believed you could make people happy by being what they wanted you to be.I disappointed the director, I know. And an entire scene of mine would be cut, which I wouldn’t find out until the movie aired. My presence on screen was clumsy and brief. But no matter: I wasn’t thinking of the future. For that half hour, their faces were all trained on mine. My mother watching beyond the camera. The director tensed like any sudden movement might distract. And me, washed by the persistent heat of the lights, at the table with my new father and my new mother, both beautiful, both benevolent, their faces matte with rice powder. In front of me was a glass filled with glistening fruit cocktail, fruit cocktail the prop master refilled after every take, like magic, like there might actually be some sweetness in the world without end.• Emma Cline’s debut novel The Girls is published by Chatto & Windus.