Peter Polites thinks Australia has narcissistic personality disorder. “We lie about our origins a lot,” says the western Sydney writer. “The bush narrative is one of many fictions that exist in Australia. We’ve been let down by our role models, America and England, and that has framed our nationalism in a corrosive way.”Polites’ debut novel, Down the Hume, follows protagonist Bux as he tangles with cultural and individual identity, a rolling addiction to painkillers, and his destructive relationship with his violent, hyper-masculine boyfriend, Nice Arms Pete (“Nice Arms Pete in beast mode was a devil’s meal”). Liane Moriarty on Big Little Lies, and the 'parallel world' of fame in America Polites’ tactile prose packs a punch in clipped, sparse beats. Polites tells Guardian Australia he calls this the “machine-gun staccato” of everyday life. “I listen to the language of people in petrol stations and kebab shops, and try to replicate that … I think of my life as residency, and stuff from my world bleeds over into my narrative and my stories.”His writing is scattered with insights about the ways people relate – and fail to relate – to each other, as moments of connection give way to slackened despair, whether in fleeting erotic encounters or in Bux’s inevitably fading friendships with dementia patients at the nursing home where he works.Polites is the associate director of western Sydney’s Sweatshop collective, a group of writers from migrant and marginalised backgrounds who are challenging and subverting the narratives that have long dominated mainstream Australian literature – white, middle-class, colonial. The recent debut novels of his Sweatshop colleagues, Michael Mohammed Ahmad and Luke Carman, saw both named on the Sydney Morning Herald’s best young Australian novelists list.Polites believes the increased recognition of western Sydney’s fertile and multivalent cultural significance is indicative of a long-standing phenomenon that has found its time. “Wherever there is such a complex socioeconomic array of voices and people, there are always artists there,” he says. “There are artists everywhere. The advocacy that Sweatshop has been doing for writers from diverse and low socioeconomic backgrounds has contributed to the surge of our narratives. Sweatshop has also been instrumental in developing the cultural capital and knowledge to encourage those writers to write.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Peter Polites: ‘I’m trying to write from my own place and my own experience’ Photograph: Stelios Papadakis“Overseas, what seems to sell from Australian narratives is bush culture. The bush is just as worthy of being read about as any place, but I want to interrogate the diversity of the western suburbs. Everyone has a link back to their ancestral lands, whether through language, cultural praxis, or a range of other ways.”Like Ahmad and Carman, Polites draws deeply on his own background and experiences in his fiction. Polites and Down the Hume’s protagonist Bux are both queer men from western Sydney, and the children of Greek migrants. Debut novelists are routinely assumed to be writing thinly veiled fictionalisations of their own lives, and Polites welcomes this curiosity even as he refutes its reduction of the real and the fictional. “The first-person voice is a version of me,” he readily admits. “But if Peter Polites can access 180 degrees of decision-making, the character [of Bux] can only access 10 degrees of decision-making.” The drive of the narrative dictates the rest. Down the Hume’s propulsive rhythm feels like entering a strong current. Its fast pace and escalating plot are typical of the noir genre, but it is also filled with unexpected and precise turns of phrase, which can shift quickly from the menial to the lyrical: “The different ways we spoke came and sat next to us on the plastic chairs. Our body shapes we inherited and fought for laid out on the table. Our money, the places we came from, ideas we picked up were all around us.”Tender, appreciative descriptions of masculine beauty are too rarely found in narratives dictated by the heterosexual gaze (whether from a male or female perspective). The habitual absence of this tenderness is made starkly clear by its continual presence in Down the Hume.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “I’m trying to write from my own place and my own experience,” Polites says. “That might be hard for some people to access. We’re at the cusp of gay people inhabiting genre texts. We can just watch a story and you can be interested in the narrative as opposed to someone’s sexuality.”Polites read and researched deeply across queer and working-class literature and noir fiction while planning the novel, which then took him seven months to write. “Although my work is noir, at its heart is melodrama,” he says. He was well aware of the genre traditions he was writing into, and was motivated by a desire to “understand myself as a person within the context of literature, and to also write about my queerness [within that lineage]”.Writing about multiple stereotyped subcultures – migrant and working-class communities in Sydney’s west, gay men, addicts – is fraught territory. Readers without direct personal experience may bring their own, not necessarily accurate, assumptions to the writing. Polites writes for these readers, and also for those who identify closely with Bux. “I’m writing for both audiences, and I’m hoping that even though there is a pseudo-literary style, that the plot involves readers who wouldn’t necessarily read the kind of book that Down the Hume is. I hope it’s through the plot that people access the trauma and pathos.”Kathryn Heyman: 'You know he's dangerous, why are you overriding your instincts?' The novel’s powerful insights into individual and national identity – including that fundamental Australian narcissism – are likely to resonate with readers of all backgrounds. Perhaps none more so than Polites himself, who had his own revelation in the writing of it. “When I finished writing Down the Hume, the biggest realisation I had was: I do consider myself Australian. I don’t use it in a positive or negative framework; I just am part of this land now in a way I never felt I was before.” • Down the Hume by Peter Polites is out on 28 February through Hachette 