Hi, Wes! What happened to your eye (1)?I don’t know. They keep telling me to come up with a better story. I think I was bit by a spider.That sucks.Yeah, it does suck. I couldn’t figure what it was for forever. It was swollen. I thought it was two zits or something.Well, spider bite or not you actually appear in Terrence Malick’s Knight of Cups (2) – so congratulations.I made it! Yeah that was a surprise. You learn to expect that you’re probably not going to make it. You’re just doing it for the process, which is good enough. That is all I wanted to do anyway. It’s very exciting to actually be in it. It’s nice.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Given Malick’s working style (3) what did you make of the final product? You probably had no idea what to expect. Yeah, I only knew story wise who I was to Rick (4). We built a real story between us. Terry was there for the character work. All that process was like a typical process. All of that was just there so we could live in it. We were never going to present that or say too much about that. A lot of the time, really the focus of the process with Terry is to not present anything – to never indicate anything. The idea was that everyone would just sort of run into these moments that were real. They would all converge at once: the lighting, the acting, the location. It would just happen at the right moment. That’s why we shot so much I think – to get those moments.Malick doesn’t strike me as someone who watches a lot of new films or TV, so how did you get on his radar?It was strange how this one came about. It seemed like out of the blue I got this phone call to ask me to do this. The phone call came at a time when I was still rebuilding my career. This was before Hunger Games had come out – that was really the thing where people went: ‘Oh, he’s back again doing stuff,’ even though I had done a few things in between.Someone probably knew that I fit the idea of what he wanted – the idea of the brother who’s struggling and has deal with a lot of things. To be honest, I can’t speak for them.You never asked him why he cast you when you got to set?No, I didn’t. [Laughs] I didn’t want him for some reason to go: ‘Oh wait, you’re not the guy I want; you’re not who I thought you were.’ I was afraid that moment was going to happen.There was a moment when he was putting together The New World where I had a chance to meet with him. It’s one of my great regrets that I didn’t and state my case for why I wanted to be in that film. It was bad timing on my part. I didn’t do it. So I’ve always regretted it. It was even stranger to get a phone call out of the blue. Maybe he had remembered me from that time. You mentioned rebuilding your career. The film, like your last project American Horror Story: Hotel, deals with addiction. Do you intentionally seek out these projects as a means to explore your past (5)?No. I haven’t been looking for it. I’ve always been open to it, though, because it’s part of something I can work with: life experience. With Ryan [Murphy], I think it was an intention to have me come on and have that be one of the things to deal with. I liked that because I liked how they dealt with that metaphorically. I think there were some really clever, very accurate ways of representing it, including the “addiction demon” which was the most brutal way to put it, but it was incredibly accurate as far as the damage, the feeling of that and the sort of never being able to escape it.Actor Wes Bentley opens up about past heroin addiction With Terry, this was something personal to him. I don’t know how much he actually knew about me with that. He must have had some idea, but he didn’t know the details. You never seem to shy away from discussing that part of your life with the press. Why do you choose to engage?There was a time when I was only talking about it as far as how it had to do with me personally. I do that less now because I do roles like Hotel and this where it’s applicable to what we’re talking about. I’ll talk about it in that sense. But I’m not shy because I’m not ashamed of it – I don’t think there’s anything to be ashamed of. Shame is partly what kept me in that space. Once I could shake that off and not be ashamed of it, it’s allowed me to be free of it in a way. As free as I can be. And so part of that is talking about it. It’s also my experience. Whenever I am applying myself to something, I can’t help but be part of it. Yeah there was a time where I was intentionally talking about it – I wanted to help others as much as just kind of express it. I’m an artist, I like to express it. Now it’s easier to talk about when in reference to the work I’m doing, which is the one good thing that came out of it. I can use it – I’m an actor. It’s the one benefit. I can actually apply it to my work.I was starstruck when I met Lady Gaga. What was it like to act with her?It’s great because she’s got one of the essential keys: it’s commitment to own it. It’s what Christian [Bale] does best is commitment – and she’s got that. She’s got that ability. So I was impressed with that. It’s great to just kind of sit in a room while we’re waiting to do scenes, because she’s got a lot of great stories and she’s very funny. She’s fun. That’s really, on set, one of the most important things. When you can hang out with somebody and have fun with them – she’s definitely like that. But takes the work very seriously.You were objectified a lot in Hotel. So often women are, so it was refreshing.[Laughs] Sure, yeah. I’m not shy – I have no problem with nudity or other people’s nudity. It’s just a body.I feel like every time a character would meet you for the first time on the show, they’d comment on your appearance.Oh yes, that’s right. It happened a lot this season. I think that must have been a joke with the writers. They’re a funny group like that. No, it was fine – it’s all part of it. It’s flattering too!The Los Angeles portrayed in Knight of Cups is beautiful but intensely hedonistic. As someone who lives here, is Malick’s vision accurate?Oh yeah. To me it’s the best depiction because it’s in a truly artistic sense, much like a poem, or a piece of classical music. That’s the way he told this story. Nothing is indicated to you. There’s no forcing of your hand, no pointing your head in the right direction – it’s just sort of given to you. What I took from all that I thought it was a very accurate portrait of LA from my experience. There’s a lot of bait and trappings, and you kind of get lost here before you know it. It always kind of leads to loneliness.Most people are adrift here. They come here with an idea and even when they’re able to successfully implement the idea, or get some success from it, you still get lost. There’s something about it. It’s just a hazy, hazy place. It makes you forget who you are. What makes you stick with it then?I want out of it – I did my time. I only came here to shoot a movie and now I’ve lived here almost 20 years. I’m ready to get out. It’s kind of perfect timing for me and that.Well, best of luck with that!Thanks.Footnotes(1) When we meet, Bentley is sporting what appears to be a bruise under his right eye.(2) Bentley stars in Terrence Malick’s Knight of Cups, out on Friday in the US. Malick is famously known for cutting actors from his movies: Mickey Rourke shot on The Thin Red Line, only to be excised completely from the finished picture.(3) On Knight of Cups, Malick didn’t give his actors his script – just character descriptions.(4) The film centers on Rick (Christian Bale), a Hollywood screenwriter battling intense loneliness. Bentley plays his troubled brother.(5) Following his breakout performance in American Beauty in 1999, Bentley spiraled into drug addiction. He became sober in 2009.