It started when he was about 13. Branden Jacobs-Jenkins went to see Waiting for Godot at the Studio Theatre in Washington. He was spellbound.“I sort of weirdly think all my work is me trying to recreate that experience somehow,” he says. “I have these really intense sense memories of not knowing what was going on but being completely riveted.”Samuel Beckett’s two wanderers in space and time, Vladimir and Estragon, were played by African American actors, Thomas W Jones II and Donald Griffin, who improvised black slang and even hip-hop long before Alexander Hamilton learned to rap. The notoriously protective Beckett estate reportedly tried in vain to stop it.Jacobs-Jenkins recalls: “There was just something about seeing people of colour occupying that landscape. I was really struck by it. It was my first real professional theatre experience.”He has lived and breathed theatre ever since and, now 31, is regarded as one of America’s hottest young playwrights, already with a clutch of awards. His play An Octoroon, which opens in his home city of Washington this week, “may turn out to be this decade’s most eloquent theatrical statement on race in America today”, in the view of the New York Times.Race. It is both Jacobs-Jenkins’s calling card and his burden. To ignore his identity as a black man in the still white-dominated theatre world would be fall into the pretence of post-racialism satirised by Stephen Colbert’s parody news host: “I don’t see race. People tell me I’m white and I believe them …” Yet to bang on about race every time Jacobs-Jenkins’s name comes up seems reductive, trite and an injustice.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   James Konicek, Kathryn Tkel, Jon Hudson Odom and Erika Rose in An Octoroon. Photograph: Scott Suchman/Woolly Mammoth“I feel like I’m put in a position where I have to engage with what people bring to my work which is an expectation for me to talk about race because it’s not normal for a black writer to be writing in the theatre,” he says. “So I have to like explain my presence, my skin colour. Those are definitely the works that people wind up responding to for whatever reason; I’ve certainly written plays that don’t do that.”While some of Jacobs-Jenkins’s works do explore black identity, his award-winning play Appropriate is made up entirely of white characters. A critic in the Washington Post commented: “Jacobs-Jenkins appropriates, makes his own, a story of white America, and this presages a more hopeful time when the ethnic identity of a playwright might not prompt a mention.”Try flipping it around and analysing the whiteness of Arthur Miller, Eugene O’Neill or Tennessee Williams. Jacobs-Jenkins observes: “I think everyone is always writing about race. Race is not like a thing you opt into as a conversation.“It’s like a matrix or a system of values that we all operate in and live inside of every day but, for some reason for artists of colour, we get labelled as writing about race when actually, if you look at every classic American play, they’re basically all about the idea of race and relation and an evolution of culture, otherness and how we deal with it. So I don’t know, it’s a tricky question to ask because if you’re going to ask me, you’ve got to ask everyone.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jon Hudson Odom in An Octoroon: the New York production experimented with black-, white- and redface. Photograph: Scott Suchman/Woolly MammothBroadway and Hollywood might appear to be in the vanguard of diverse, progressive America but for the past two years no black actors were nominated for an Oscar. Few theatre audiences in New York are likely to reflect the demographic makeup of today’s America. The owners of the means of artistic production are still overwhelmingly white. Jacobs-Jenkins is aware of only one black artistic director of an off-Broadway house. He muses: “For a long time I was programmed in February which is Black History Month which is when people think black people will buy tickets. But now for the last three years my shows have been in the summer which is the slot that no one actually pays attention to. So there are politics to programming.”There are politics to casting, too. “It’s like us knocking heads against a glass, which is the reality of how we view racial thinking being in the world. Even though we’re not using it to burn crosses, it’s influencing our gaze, it’s influencing the way we look at and receive all kinds of stories.“I don’t hate people who colour-blind cast but I hate people who colour-blind cast and pretend that they’re not, who pretend that these bodies on stage don’t actually carry specific meaning.”Like many radical artists, Jacobs-Jenkins’s thrilling experiments in form and content come not out of a vacuum but steeping himself in theatre lore. His influences and inspirations include Williams, O’Neill, Miller, Caryl Churchill, Sam Shepard, David Henry Hwang, Wallace Shawn, Christopher Durang and Marsha Norman. He adds: “I wrestle in a big way with August Wilson’s work in that I at times admire it and at times feel infuriated by it, which is weirdly more influential than loving someone entirely.”An Octoroon is an adaptation with a twist of an obscure 19th-century melodrama about slavery; an octoroon is a person whose ancestry is one-eighth black. The audience is “meta-theatrically” guided through the action by a character known as BJJ, a stand-in for Branden Jacobs-Jenkins himself. The New York production toyed with blackface, whiteface and redface. It was praised as “entertainingly demented”, clever, comical, knowing and Jacobs-Jenkins’s most personal work to date.What is it saying, as British dramatist David Hare might ask? “Every play for me is a kind of weird investigation for myself and ends up hopefully being useful for people. I’m not a really firm believer in theatre that is ‘about anything’. I don’t think theatre can be about anything other than the people who show up and the value that they hold. I think theatre is about checking in on some controversial ideas among the people and seeing where we all square in our relationship to those ideas and also with each other.”He adds: “I wrestle with this idea of consensus in theatre all the time, where everyone’s supposed to feel the exact same thing together. But I’m interested in when we actually diverge on topics and when we come together and becoming aware and conscious of those fluctuations.”An Octoroon is being staged at the Woolly Mammoth Theatre in Washington, the city where Jacobs-Jenkins was born “in a hospital that no longer exists, apparently”, and where his mother and sister still live. When he was growing up, he recalls, Washington was the murder capital of the US and ranked second among the country’s worst government schools; he went to a private Catholic school before studying anthropology at Princeton.Crime has gone down, schools have improved and once no-go neighbourhoods have gentrified since then. The theatre scene has gained some swagger and could arguably be seen as the third most vibrant in the nation after New York and Chicago. “It’s healthy and it’s a strong community and I feel like there is something in the water,” the writer reflects.But Washington remains first and foremost about politics. Of late Jacobs-Jenkins has been reading Svetlana Alexievich’s book Voices from Chernobyl: The Oral History of a Nuclear Disaster and thinking about the collapse of empires. “Oh God, maybe Donald Trump is our Chernobyl,” he ponders, half-jokingly. “Who knows? I keep trying to imagine what it is to try to be a writer in a world he’s talking about. I feel that so much of my work is about the opposite of what that is. It’s about trying to avoid things like hatred, ultimately, and bigotry.”• An Octoroon is in previews at the Woolly Mammoth Theatre, opens on 3 June and runs until 26 June. Details here