Democratic contenders promised repeatedly to take forceful action against climate change in their first presidential debate on Tuesday night – even before they were asked. Much to the disappointment of campaigners, CNN allocated just one question to climate change, outsourced to a member of the public, and relegated to the final segment of the two-hour encounter.But four of the five Democratic contenders – with Jim Webb, the former Virginia Senate the sole hold-out – grabbed every chance that came their way to inject climate change into the event.Bernie Sanders ranked climate change as the single biggest threat to America’s national security. “The scientific community is telling us: if we do not address the global crisis of climate change, transform our energy system away from fossil fuels to sustainable energy, the planet that we’re going to be leaving our kids and our grandchildren may well not be inhabitable,” Sanders said. “That is a major crisis.”Martin O’Malley touted his plan to purge fossil fuels from America’s energy supply within the next few decades. Hillary Clinton recounted the time she roamed the hallways of a cavernous conference hall in Copenhagen looking for Chinese leaders who could make a deal to cut carbon pollution, and defended her position on the Keystone XL pipeline.“I never took a position on Keystone until I took a position on Keystone,” Clinton said.Clinton went on to say she had been committed to fighting climate change since 2009, when she and Barack Obama hunted down the Chinese leadership at the Copenhagen climate conference to try to reach a deal to cut carbon pollution. “I have been on the forefront of fighting climate change, starting in 2009, when President Obama and I crashed a meeting on the Chinese and got them to sign up for the first international agreement to combat climate change that they’d ever joined,” she said. “We marched up, we broke in, we said, ‘we’ve been looking all over for you, let’s sit down and talk about what we need to do,’ and we did come up with the first international agreement China has signed.”Lincoln Chaffee proudly claimed to be on the coal industry’s enemies list. The candidates’ attention to the topic, in sharp contrast to CNN, reinforced the importance of climate change for Democratic primary voters. Environmental groups had been looking to candidates to provide concrete details of their plans to fight climate change. “One question simply isn’t enough time to discuss our greatest challenge,” Tom Steyer, the billionaire climate activist, said in a statement. “We must add a debate exclusively focused on climate change solutions and clean energy.”The candidates mentioned climate change a dozen times during the two-hour encounter – far more than during five hours of Republican debates.The encounter confirmed that Democratic contenders feel under strong pressure from party activists to demonstrate their climate change credentials. To date, Sanders and O’Malley have been the most forceful when calling for action to fight climate change, and describing the threat posed by climate change. Clinton used the debate to play catch-up, putting to rest concerns about her position on Keystone XL during her time as secretary of state. Clinton came out in opposition to the project in September. In 2010, as Secretary of State, she had said she was inclined to support the pipeline.