Weighed down by scandal and financial woes, American Apparel’s retreat from the high street is looking more likely by the day. So a space opens up for a brand that provides ethically produced basics with a zeitgeisty point of view and respect for the power of a nice typeface. Enter Everybody, the fledgling set up by two American Apparel alumni Iris Alonzo and Carolina Crespo.The duo, at American Apparel for 14 and 11 years respectively, set up Everybody as a fashion label with a difference. Yes, they launched this month with the most basic of basic items – a white T-shirt made from recycled cotton for $25 (£20) – but actually the rest of the items on the site weren’t their idea at all. Each item is designed by a friend or creative in LA, where they’re based.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Carolina Crespo. Photograph: camrafaceWith drops of these limited items on the site weekly, first up is a 10ft (3m) body pillow made by art collector Jean Pigozzi, while a mac by artist couple Mae Elvis Kaufman and Kalen Hollomon is next. “The only rule that we have is that we have to know how to make it,” says Alonzo. While anything is possible, there’s a general tendency towards the fundamentals of a wardrobe: the perfect mac, shirt or sweatshirt. “It’s about what is missing in your life, what you don’t have in your closet … or a 64-year-old art collector who has everything made a body pillow that fits to his body, and is shaped like a snake.” Hey, whatever works.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Everybody green sweatshirt. Photograph: camrafaceIf, currently, Everybody’s contributors are chosen by Alonzo and Crespo, the hope is that eventually they will be joined by members of the public, with 10% of the brand’s output generated by customers themselves. This sort of crowdsourced fashion is something Alonzo thinks reflects the direction in which fashion and shopping are going. “It’s the opposite of the traditional design concept and instead reaches out to people,” she says. A kind of community is the goal – with stories, and really nice, no-brainer clothes, at the heart of it. “We’re reliant on word of mouth and people caring about what they consume,” says Alonzo. “A shirt is a shirt. But if there’s a story behind it about a 74-year-old man who plays chess in the park and it’s the same price as the one in another store, we hope you’ll buy this one.” 