My father and I have been estranged for over two years. He was physically violent and emotionally abusive to me throughout my childhood, and I felt that I couldn’t forgive him. In August 2014, I told him I never wanted to see him again, focusing on all the negative things about him and all the ways in which he had hurt me. And yet, now he is dying, unconscious and struggling to breathe through an oxygen tube after a major stroke and brain haemorrhage, all I can think of is how much he loved me.How he would hold my fringe back and kiss me on the forehead before school. How he bought me a portable cassette player with headphones and three Duran Duran cassette albums, because they were my favourite band. How he taught me to roll a grapefruit before cutting it, and eat croissants with marmalade. How he bought me a pottery set and roller skates, although we were struggling by on just his salary, and allowed me to skate to school. How he would play chess and tennis with me, and take me to endless chess and tennis tournaments, even though I never won anything. How he would buy me every issue of Discovering Needlecraft magazine. How he would read the Guardian every day and fill in the quick crossword, but leave a few clues and praise me if I solved them.How he went to the US embassy to get me citizenship like him, even though he didn’t want to be American any more, just in case I wanted to be. How he came to collect me when a car was kerb-crawling me; how he drove me to the police station after a man exposed himself to me. How he took me for my abortion when I couldn’t turn to anyone else, after my boyfriend had turned violent. How he looked after me in Spain when I was pregnant for the second time and having a nervous breakdown.A lapsed unitarian, he came to the launch of the atheist bus campaign, and the awards ceremony when I was given a special award by the National Secular Society. He kept every one of my Guardian columns, and every article I ever had published, even during our many estranged periods. Along with my mum, he gave me a lot of his savings to buy a flat after I became a single mum. And he set my date of birth as the passcode on his phone.Yet I’m ashamed to say I blamed him, often, for everything: for my anorexia when young, my cutting, my suicide attempts, my failed relationships, my estrangement from my brother; for my anxiety, my depression, my violent boyfriend and my nervous breakdown. He was there during the tough times, yet all I could think was that the tough times happened because of him, forgetting that the causes of events are complex, and that plenty of people who had happy childhoods have to deal with mental illness and domestic violence too.I even stopped him from seeing my daughter, then three, the thing that brought him most happiness, because I was scared he would hurt her, and that her life would be like mine. That decision would mean he never spoke to me again.My estranged father wants to get in touch, but I don’t want to see him When we spent time together in previous years, my father hugged me a lot yet never talked much. Born in 1930s America during the Depression, he was a man of few words, a silent romantic who signed his empty Valentine’s cards to my mother with only his first initial. I know he thought I talked too much; ironically, I never told him what I needed to. Knowing he was old, I tried to get back in touch several times to make things right, but my mother said he didn’t want to hear from me. I understand that. Why would he want to hear from the daughter who was never able to forgive him for his mistakes; who brought them up time after time, unable to accept his apologies? Who prevented him from seeing his granddaughter? Who berated him for his faults, yet never acknowledged his numerous kindnesses?It’s much too late now. When I sit by his hospital bed and hold his large wrinkled hand, far too warm, and ask him to squeeze it if he can hear me, he doesn’t. So I tell him a few of the things I should have told him when he was conscious, though it’s hard to say the words: that I love him very much, and that I’m sorry about the estrangement. I tell him about Lily, his granddaughter, and that I’m going to get her US citizenship just like he got me citizenship, and that we’re going to visit California, where he grew up. And it reminds me of what I’ve known for a long time: that my dad didn’t know how to be a father to me when I was young, because his father was abusive to him as a child. His father died estranged from his son; my father is dying estranged from his daughter.I never thought that I’d feel this broken at losing him. I fantasise that his eyes will open, and that he will be conscious again for just a few days. I will give him a letter thanking him for all the things I have remembered while writing this piece, listing all the beautiful memories from childhood, and apologising for all the ways I have wronged him. And when I deliver the letter, I will bring my five-year-old daughter with me, so he can see her happiness and sweetness, and learn that the chain of hurt that has been passed down from generation to generation has finally been broken. But when his last breath leaves his body, that fantasy will die along with him, and I will always regret everything that remains unspoken.The author’s father died four hours after this piece was written 