A huge mechanical puppet has been unveiled in Devon ahead of a journey over two counties to celebrate the mining history of south-west England.The Man Engine, billed as the largest mechanical puppet to have been built in the UK, will travel 130 miles across Devon and Cornwall during the next fortnight. It has been constructed to mark the 10th anniversary of the west Devon and Cornwall mining landscape being added to the list of Unesco world heritage sites.  As it moves from place to place in crawling mode, the Man Engine is the size of a double decker bus, but it becomes nearly three times as tall when it extends to its full height of about 12 metres (39ft) with the help of puppeteers and mechanised parts. The Man Engine, which was commissioned by the Cornish mining world heritage partnership, was shown to the public in Tavistock on Monday and greeted by choirs, visitors and local people performing the Cornish mining chant Haka Balweyth. It will trundle through 10 mining areas and form the centrepiece of theatrical shows and cultural events.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Man Engine is pulled to his feet in Tavistock. Photograph: Ben Birchall/PAEngineered in Cornwall, the puppet’s rocking neck is a reminder of a giant beam engine, while the shoulders look like sheave wheels on mining headgear and the hands resemble 20th-century excavators.Will Coleman, the artistic director of Golden Tree Productions, which created the engine, said the figure was designed to be a reminder of thousands of years of mining history in Cornwall and the region’s geology.“Our horn-shaped granite kingdom of Cornwall is a tiny 0.002% of the planet’s surface, yet beneath our rocky shores can be found samples of more than 90% of all mineral species ever identified. Millions of years in the making, the geology of Cornwall is unique,” he said. “This unbelievable geological treasure has powered the Cornish people’s endeavour through 4,000 years of mining history: innovation, triumph and heartbreak. I was brought up on the banks of the river Tamar with the stories and the legacy of Cornish mining all around me. The landscape is deeply rooted in the impacts of that industry, and in the successes and the struggles of the real people whose lives shaped our Cornish mining story.”A series of events will coincide with the procession of the Man Engine. In Liskeard, the first Cornish town to receive the puppet, a street mural is being painted to mark the event, while the Man Engine will be greeted by brass bands on Bodmin Moor.  On the penultimate evening of its journey, in Penzance, a 7.5-metre (25ft) tall Humphry Davy puppet will appear and parade through the chemist’s hometown to meet the Man Engine, offering it the gift of a huge Davy safety lamp, which safeguarded the lives of millions of miners.Cllr Julian German, the chairman of the Cornish mining world heritage partnership, said: “Our Cornish mining ancestors were international entrepreneurs, who propelled mining into a new industrial era on a worldwide scale. It wasn’t an easy journey for anyone then, and in many ways, it is a difficult history.“Special projects like the towering Man Engine show we still share this same gritty ambition and ingenuity with our ancestors.”