In the first two episodes of Channel 4’s latest endurance reality show Mutiny, in which nine men attempt to recreate the potentially lethal 4,000-mile voyage undertaken by William Bligh in 1789, the point of it all has largely been elusive, though it seems to be something about self-discovery and inner strength. We have come so far along the reality TV path that it now seems fine to offer up men defecating over the side of a boat. When they aren’t working out how to go to the loo, the participants – I keep wanting to call them contestants, but the only prize appears to be getting out alive – are suffering in other ways, with the skin falling away from their sodden hands, their spirits dampened and the crux of any survival show: hunger.By this week’s third instalment, the crew have stopped off en route to pick up supplies for the next leg of the journey, but owing to the baking sun and slower progress than expected, their rations start to go off. They lob a hunk of pork over the side of the boat and get increasingly cranky. Soon, food is all they can talk about. They daydream about refreshing sorbets of every flavour. The modern-day Captain, Ant Middleton, notes that they are experiencing “the same pain and suffering” as Bligh’s crew would have done. “That’s a bit scary, actually,” he points out. Naturally, there is tension between the men.As with most reality TV tricks, you can trace limited rations back to Big Brother. From the first series, housemates had to gamble their weekly shopping budget on the outcome of tasks. It quickly became clear that when people were hungry, they would bicker. I’m a Celebrity Get Me Out of Here took it further not only by forcing famous people to eat testicles, but by mostly feeding them rice when they weren’t eating testicles. Almost every contestant inevitably loses a serious amount of weight and ends up lobbing insults at a soap star because all they can think of is cheese.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   I’m a Celebrity Get Me Out of Here took the enforced hunger further not only by making famous people eat testicles, but by mostly feeding them rice when they weren’t eating testicles. Photograph: REX/ShutterstockMutiny is part of an increasingly prevalent type of reality show where the business of survival is key. In a more innocent time, there was Shipwrecked, where young attractive people were left on an island mostly to sun themselves and fall in love. But TV has become more hardened, and we now demand suffering. On The Island with Bear Grylls, participants are dumped on a remote island and have to find their own food and water. Last year, some contestants ended up drinking stagnant water, which made them sick, which made them think they should drink more stagnant water, and so it continued. They had to hunt for their food and were bad at it, so they got dramatically thin and argued a lot. Similarly the promising Eden, which saw people cut off from the world in what was supposed to be a social experiment, descended into tedium as the group failed to live off the land, mostly talked about the food they were missing, and then fought. There’s a case to be made that keeping people hungry ruined both The Island and Eden, and I had been dreading the point at which this started to appear in Mutiny, too, because when hunger is that extreme it is all-consuming, and it makes the participants flat and exhausted, and as television, ultimately, it can only be repetitive. I know it’s supposed to be entertainment, and I’m sure that if there was any serious risk they’d be removed, but there’s also something particularly vulgar about depriving people of food, watching people go hungry, just to whip up a bit of extra drama. It feels entitled and indulgent and queasily contemporary: let them not eat cake. The Mutiny crew have a distance to go before they can pick up more supplies, but I hope they slip them a cool box for the last leg.