Benjamina and Selasi are the new Ross and Rachel As other contestants put their heads down and focus their thoughts, two of the bakers are horsing around like it’s Olympic dressage season. He holds egg whites above her head to prove the stiffness of his peaks; she accuses him of hiding outside her house with night-vision goggles, hacking her laptop for recipes. They intuitively choose the same ingredients, lock eyes when rolling out their dough. They are the new Ross and Rachel; but that relationship was a rocky road. How long can it be before the legendary words ring out of the tent: “WE WERE ON A BAKE OFF!”Mary Berry would prefer you to not to (use a blowtorch)  Mary Berry’s blowtorch disdain. Photograph: BBC/Love Productions“I just wish they weren’t all using blowtorches,” wailed the dowager countess Berry, as all but one of the contestants reached for the gas to finish off their meringue tops. No one can prove she eschews the blowtorch because it brings to mind the spectre of soldering, and other forms of mechanical labour, but there’s no other reason. This is the woman who famously declared “no household should own a deep fat fryer,” igniting a class war with MasterChef’s Gregg Wallace, truly a Rob Roy for our times. Ironically, the fire brigade sided with her on that one. Tom is the new Jamie Oliver      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Judgey McJudgeface … Tom the health-loving time lord. Photograph: Tom Graham/BBC/Love ProductionsHe may look like someone let the air out of a Joaquin Phoenix doll, but Tom is spiritually closer to the crusading Jamie Oliver. Where others ladle on sugar and fat, Tom prefers healthy options like pumpkin curd, and declared herb fougasse his cinema snack of choice (unlike you, with your Maltesers and your Transformers 3). He also described himself “not a fan of sweet pastry,” so it must be a shock to find himself here: like a time lord quantum leapt into the body of a man who has voluntarily applied to be on a cake-based gameshow. Jane and Candice aren’t playing any more      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Battle-ready … frontrunner Jane eyes her arch rival Candice. Photograph: Tom Graham/BBC/Love ProductionsThe two frontrunning bakers always had an inner steel to them. As the finish line draws near, that has turned into outer steel, like Robocop’s exoskeleton. “I know where my rival is. She’s right behind me!” laughed Jane, in a way that sounded 25% like a joke, and 175% like a reconnaissance report from a battle-ready battalion. Equally gimlet-eyed, Candice has put away all the “handle my sausage” and “hold these jugs” sass to concentrate on outbaking everyone, regardless of whether it cost her camera time. Even her lipstick was nude this week, symbolising naked ambition.The patriarchy also rises      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hurrah – or boo!? Tom rises up to become star baker. Photograph: Tom Graham/BBC/Love ProductionsOodles of suffragetti-spaghetti this week, as at the halfway stage every single male contestant was in danger of eviction, while the women all excelled. But this is a show about baking: a historically gendered task, in which we still need visible male participation. The show posed a political dilemma – support the metrosexual beta males in their symbolic struggle, or cheer on the women who are clearly much better? In the end, despite having been in danger, Tom – a man – surmounted the odds and walked away star baker. Hurrah! Or boo!? Please check Comment is Free this afternoon, once we’ve figured out the correct answer.