Video games are often criticised for their outlandish story lines, but considering what’s been happening in British politics this week, they now seem like a perfectly sensible place to learn about the world.So if you’ve not yet had your fill of plot twists, back-stabs and last minute turn arounds, here are gaming’s greatest power struggles.Add your own favourites in the comments section!Assassin’s Creed II (2009, Ubisoft)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Assassin’s Creed II. Photograph: UbisoftUbisoft’s historical hitman games always mix the stalk and stab action with a rich, twisty-turny plot, and this one is especially sneaky, pitching the Borgias against the Medici clan in renaissance Italy. But Assassin’s Creed II goes one better than featuring Machiavellian politics – it actual features Machiavelli himself, cropping up as a useful ally amid the picturesque slaughter. Civilization series (1991-, Microprose/2K Games)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Civilization VI. Photograph: 2K GamesSure, you can play Sid Meier’s globe-spanning strategy sims as a noble leader and tactician, but it’s much more fun to be a duplicitous psychopath, endlessly toying with foreign rulers. Nothing beats letting them think you’re an ally who really, honestly does take that peace treaty seriously ... before driving your tanks through their cities and nuking the capital.Crusader Kings series (2004- Paradox)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Crusader Kings II. Photograph: ParadoxWhile Civilization is all about guiding a whole nation to political or military glory, this Medieval strategy sim is about maintaining a single bloodline, whatever the cost – and that’s as likely to involve strategically beneficial marriages and gruesome assassinations as it is victory on the battlefield. It’s a cynical, clandestine view of power and motivation that seems pretty suitable for our current political climate.Democracy series (2005-, Positech)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Democracy 3. Photograph: PositechPositech’s complex trio of political sims put you in charge of a modern democratic country as you seek to control everything from the economy to the crime rate, while manipulating voters. If you fancy role-playing as Boris Johnson, simply install the game, load it up then immediately leave so that someone else has to do it.Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (2002, Rockstar)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Grand Theft Auto: Vice City. Photograph: RockstarGTA has always played with the familiar gangster movie themes of betrayal and ambition, but Vice City has the greatest cast of crime clans, corrupt politicians and power hungry henchmen the series has ever produced. Right in the middle of it all is Tommy Vercetti, stirring up trouble (ie insane hyper-violence) between the rival Forelli and Vance families. They were probably all at Eton together.Middle Earth: Shadow of Mordor (2014, Warner Bros)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Middle Earth: Shadow of Mordor. Photograph: Warner BrosIt may look like a standard fantasy-themed hack ’em up, but Shadow of Mordor adds a clever “Nemesis” system, allowing players to manipulate the hierarchy of the evil orc army by either killing or possessing key generals. Enemies also bear long grudges against the player, which only come to light during battle – or two days into a leadership election campaign.Suikoden II (1999, Konami)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Suikoden II. Photograph: KonamiOne of the greatest role-playing adventures ever made, Suikoden II has been described as Game of Thrones meets Pokemon – a sprawling tale of warring states, in which the player starts out as a lowly knight with a nice castle but no allies. Like Corbyn, you find yourself having to quickly build a new regime of loyal warriors. Unlike Corbyn you can recruit from over 100 willing candidates.Syndicate (1993, Bullfrog)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Syndicate. Photograph: BullfrogThe classic cyberpunk strategy shooter is set in a world where warring corporations have replaced elected governments and where the population is controlled via small devices that utterly manipulate each user’s understanding of the world and render them docile and compliant. Apparently, this was science fiction in 1993.Tropico series (2001-, Poptop Softare/Haemimont Games)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tropico V. Photograph: Kalypso MediaAn ironic take on the grand strategy genre, Tropico gives players control of a remote island state where electoral fraud, covert nuclear testing and other corruptions are enthusiastically encouraged. With its violently factional populace and bizarre insular policies, it could easily be re-skinned as a Brexit training sim. Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings (2011, CD Projekt Red)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Witcher 2. Photograph: CD Projekt RedThe second title in CD Projekt Red’s monster hunting fantasy adventure has an overtly political narrative, taking place amid the chaotic power vacuum following the murder of a king. White-haired beast killer Geralt must navigate this viper’s nest of conspirators, murderers and would-be rulers, as vast armies prepare to clash over the whims of mad men. In short: more treachery, sex and violence than a Tory party conference.