A grey sea-wind sweeps in to thrash foliage about and skirmish among boughs as I hasten along from the town's imposing castle into the dark groves of Llechwedd. These western woods are a kind of Atlantic rainforest – damp, dense and luxuriant with hanging ivy, mossed rocks, spleenwort-feathered boles. The path to them circles above extensive wild gardens where jays pillage ripening apples. They belonged, until her death in February a week before her 93rd birthday, to Miss Enid Jones, head of English when Philip Pullman was at the school below – an inspiring teacher to whom he remained devoted. It's surely not fanciful to see how, in this exceptional landscape – Snowdon, a graceful pyramid to the north, the long arm of Lleyn encircling the bay, rough bounds of the Rhinogydd protection against all forms of corruption from the east – the physical became imaginative in the mind of the finest of all children's writers. An adolescence spent here would inform a lifetime.Steps descend into the shade, drifts of dog's mercury across the woodland floor. Cloud's clearing, in the sudden manner of these coasts. Shafts of sunlight search down through canopies of beech and sycamore. One falls upon a cluster of meadowsweet so that, illuminated, froth of golden blossom and mild astringency of scent seem somehow angelic in this sombre place. Leathery brackets of dryad's saddle, too tough now to gather for eating, jut from a rotting, fallen trunk. The ancient volcanoes of Lleyn are stark against a brightening sky. I glimpse a grey heron gliding past to its nest in an old cherry tree by the castle and, in following its flight, catch sight of shy movement in the upper branches of a light-starved, straggling ash that is losing out in the great battle of the trees. Focusing my glass, a sparrow-sized bird, bar-winged and carmine-crowned, comes into view – a lesser spotted woodpecker, all-too-rare in Britain now. It reminds me of days long ago in the apple orchards of Herefordshire, where once they were numberless.