As the fashion world waits to draw a line under a season that has seen an economic and creative recalibration, a new wave of millennial designers are poised to take the reins at London fashion week.Of the eight new designers handpicked for the the British Fashion Council’s NewGen mentoring scheme – whose previous recipients include Alexander McQueen and JW Anderson – seven are female. “We have had a strong cohort of female designers in NewGen, which is fantastic to see,” says Caroline Rush, chief executive of the British Fashion Council.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Caroline Rush, centre, at an LFW runway show. Photograph: James Shaw/Rex/ShutterstockTwo will open fashion week: Polish-born German-raised Marta Jakubowski, whose aesthetic showcases a tenure spent on film sets and at opera houses, as well as interning for Alexander Wang, with extravagantly flowing fabric and precise cutouts that are halfway between atelier and caped superhero; and Ashley Williams, who continues to mix athleisure, the trend that will not die, with cartoon gothic imagery. Elsewhere, Alexa Chung and the label Shrimps have turned their brand of street style into businesses. Chung, who is previewing her second Archive by Alexa for Marks and Spencer’s collection on Friday, which is due in stores on 1 November, and Shrimps’s creative director, Hannah Weiland, have put the emphasis on wearability.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Models backstage sporting athleisure wear. Photograph: Tristan Fewings/Getty ImagesWhat effect will this new generation of female designers have? “I think it will inspire young women to go into business,” says Rush. “And it will also get them thinking about starting their own careers in fashion.”Theresa May shows Britain is still open for business at London fashion week But industry turmoil has threatened to overshadow this season’s fashion weeks. There has been a record number of creative directors moving on from high-profile roles: Maria Grazia Chiuri from Valentino to Dior, Raf Simons to Calvin Klein, Jonathan Saunders to Diane von Furstenberg and Grace Coddington announcing her retirement from American Vogue. The business is also having to reconfigure to move with the times. Runway to retail, the idea that clothes can be bought immediately after they debut on the catwalk, which Tom Ford did at New York fashion week – and the merging of male and female collections as seen at the Burberry show this week – have happened not just out of economic necessity but from an understanding that consumers have changed the way they shop. One of the most significant shocks to the industry was the result of the EU referendum in June. “The majority of us wanted to remain,” says Rush. “Since [the vote] we’ve been conscious of massaging our international relationships.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   British designer Vivienne Westwood arrives at Downing Street for the London fashion week reception. Photograph: Hannah Mckay/EPAAt the prime minister’s reception at No 10 on Thursday, the focus was also on the business of fashion. “The government I lead will do everything we can, including providing the right investment in training and skills to help everyone, whatever people’s backgrounds, to go as far as their talents can take them,” Theresa May said. Her comments were echoed by the mayor of London at an event to mark the start of fashion week. “London is open to the world and is an international leader of creativity and entrepreneurship,” Sadiq Khan said. “The fashion industry epitomises all that is great about the capital.”