All summer, the British Library is hosting punk-themed events to mark the movement’s 40th anniversary. Punks may have wanted to smash their era’s sacred idols but today punk is enshrined as the definitive pop-cultural moment – and one that still shapes our world.Paul Smith celebrates 40 years of punk But is that true? Hippies, not punks, nurtured the world wide web. Mod, not punk, exerts an unshakeable grip on our idea of a well-dressed man. And, in terms of the way we work and socialise, the pop-cultural movement that has the greatest sway over us – and that we really need to understand – is not punk but rave.Rave was the phenomenon that began in the late 1980s of large groups driving out to abandoned warehouses, taking ecstasy and dancing all night. Punk and rave shared the DIY ethos and spawned a generation of bedsit enterprises, but in every other way they were different.Punk was a statement of sartorial and musical individuality; rave was all about the collective. Punk required you to live every second of your life committed to punk – rave was for the weekend. Punk’s defining attitude was a radical anger that pitted you against the world and made gobbing political. Rave let you feel that smiling at strangers was a step towards a new global consciousness.Was rave facile? Did it lack the substance to be considered a cultural movement on a par with punk? Maybe. But almost 30 years on it is rave, not punk, that shapes our world – and it’s only because the changes are so profound, and so taken for granted, that we can’t see that.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Before rave, Glastonbury was a dire, cider-soaked place full of, well, old punks. After rave, festivals became Technicolor carnivals of fun, a booming industry and a rite of passage for a generation.’ Photograph: Leon Neal/AFP/Getty ImagesWith its strong links to the DJs, venues and music of the gay scene, rave played a huge role in breaking down the stigmatisation of gay people that followed the Aids crisis – and in nurturing the liberated social climate that made the legalisation of gay marriage seem inevitable.It was the scale of rave that finally alerted society to the ubiquity and the banality of drug use. Even if our drug laws are still a mess, at least intelligent conversation about drug policy is now possible. Rave also revolutionised our summers. Before rave, Glastonbury was a dire, cider-soaked place full of, well, old punks. After rave, festivals became Technicolor carnivals of fun, a booming industry and a rite of passage for a generation.But the truest measure of the two different movements is that, unlike punk, rave has never really gone away. Superstar DJs and vast dance music events are now woven into our culture.But if rave has ultimately resonated at a deeper level than punk – not just persisting as a subculture but shaping the way society evolved – why is this the case? Maybe it’s because, while punk encapsulates something profound, rave promises something indispensable.Punk is a glorious celebration of an individual’s right to live on his or her own terms – regardless of society’s judgment. Rave offers the one thing that supplants that, and meets an arguably deeper need – our instinct not just to be individuals but to belong, to transcend our fears of exclusion and to feel wholly part of something potent and meaningful.Once punk and rave are placed in opposition, the distinction can seem ubiquitous. What is the Brexit debate, if not a war between the exasperated punks of Vote Leave and the touchy-feely ravers of Britain Stronger in Europe?But rave’s greatest achievement is not just in fomenting that culture clash or ushering in a few social changes. By superseding punk as the nation’s biggest youth culture, it was instrumental in forging an attitude that goes to the heart of the way we live now – and the way we’ve chosen to respond to the changes of the past 20 years. Specifically, it was rave that finally stripped hedonism of its outsider allure and turned it into a mainstream pursuit – and the No 1 coping strategy for our stressed and uncertain lives.The whole point of being a raver was to have the best time you could possibly have in that moment. Calibrating your cocktail of drugs, pre-planning your comedown, adorning yourself with glow-sticks: a self-sublimating moment of pure pleasure was the goal, and the pursuit of it became a skill worth cultivating.Today we live and work in a rave economy. The second that you book a journey or holiday, you’re offered myriad ways of “optimising” your experience. One of the fastest-growing sectors of our economy is not producing “things” but one-off, “you-had-to-be-there” moments that lift us out of our dreary lives and make us feel better about going back to work after the weekend. The solution to a break-up is a 48-hour jaunt to Barcelona. Yes, this is all just consumerism, but the significance of rave was that it was the moment consumerism and hedonism really collided, and neither has been the same since. The only thing ravers ever marched for was their right to party Punks dreamed their anger could bring down capitalism. Ravers shrugged and settled for private liberation, two days a week. Perhaps it’s because punk reminds us of a time when social change seemed possible that it is now so cherished. The mile-high stacks of Jon Savage books and shrink-wrapped reissues of Never Mind the Bollocks stocked in the British Library’s “punk shop” are useful in helping us deny how compromised and powerless we actually feel. Or maybe punk just fits perfectly into our template for an avant-garde movement: divisive, iconoclastic, white and male. Beside it, rave looks mindless. Any curator suggesting an exhibition on rave would surely be scorned for suggesting that smiley badges and fractals are worth anyone’s time.But 28 years on from the second “summer of love”, Britain has been reshaped in its image: liberal, entrepreneurial, hedonistic. If you believe a certain YouTube clip, we’ve got an ex-raver as prime minister. Even if that wasn’t David Cameron at an orbital party (so-called for their proximity to the M25) in 1989, in his ingrained social liberalism and periodic outbreaks of blokeishness, he is a product of rave. If he sometimes seems uncomfortable with his own privilege, maybe it’s because the point of rave was that deep down we are all the same.But that’s exactly where rave’s detractors have a point. Because the movement’s belief that social injustice would dissolve in the face of all-night partying was clearly simplistic. Rave promised to break down cultural barriers and bring all parts of society together. Today, Islamophobia is rampant and the conversation around “migrants” and “outsiders” has never been uglier. The unprecedented focus on fun-in-the-moment was rave’s unique appeal. But that also meant it could never deliver the change it promised. The only thing ravers ever marched for was their “right to party”.So, rave may have had far more social influence than punk, but in our rave-shaped world, where inequality is actually worse than ever, maybe what we need are some really angry people to come along, smash everything up, and remind us of our rights. Maybe what we need are some punks, challenging attitudes again and delivering a shock to the system – just perhaps not the stale old kind you can attend a lecture about for £15 at the British Library.