Trevor Paglen, the US multidisciplinary artist known for his work tackling mass surveillance, has been awarded this year’s Deutsche Börse photography prize. The artist who maps the twilight world of the surveillance agencies Paglen, who was born in Maryland in 1974, won for his work The Octopus, first shown at Frankfurter Kunstverein last summer. The project explores topics such as data collection, military surveillance, drone warfare and the systems of power connected to them, and comprises images of restricted military and government areas and skylines showing the flight tracks of passing drones, as well as research assembled in collaboration with scientists, amateur astronomers and human rights activists.Paglen’s prize, announced at a ceremony at London’s Photographers’ Gallery on Thursday, was awarded by a jury including David Drake, director of the Ffotogallery in Cardiff, artist Alfredo Jaar and Wim van Sinderen, senior curator at the Hague Museum of Photography. Brett Rogers, jury chair and director of the Photographers’ Gallery, recognised Paglen’s “significant contribution to current issues that deal with the disquieting impact of the unseen aspects of technology on our daily lives”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Self-portrait ... Trevor Paglen (2015) Photograph: Trevor PaglenNow in its 18th year, the Deutsche Börse prize goes to a photographer of any nationality for their significant contribution to the medium of photography, either through an exhibition or publication in Europe. Past winners include Paul Graham, Juergen Teller and Rineke Dijkstra. This year’s shortlist was dominated by artists who engage with social issues and contemporary politics. Deutsche Börse photography prize shortlist: drones v the women of Tahrir The other shortlisted artists include Laura El-Tantawy, born in the UK to Egyptian parents in 1980, who is known for her works examining identity and the social and environmental issues arising from her background (she grew up between Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the US). She was nominated for her self-published photobook In the Shadow of the Pyramids, which mixes images from Cairo, taken in the build-up to the 2011 revolution, with old family photographs. Dutch artist, designer and curator Erik Kessels was nominated for his exhibition Unfinished Father at Fotografia Europea, which looked at themes of memory and loss and was inspired by the artist’s father’s debilitating stroke. Tobias Zielony, a German artist born in 1973, was shortlisted for his work The Citizen, which was exhibited as part of the German Pavilion presentation at the Venice Biennale. His work looked at the lives and everyday struggles of African refugee activists living in Europe.All the entries will be on display at the Photographers’ Gallery until 3 July, before moving to the Deutsche Börse headquarters in Frankfurt.The Deutsche Börse photography prize 2016 is organised by the Photographers’ Gallery and is on display until 3 July.