Born in Scotland, Sheena Easton, 57, has won two Grammys and sold more than 20m records; her songs include Modern Girl and U Got The Look, a collaboration with Prince. This week, she makes her West End debut in 42nd Street at Theatre Royal Drury Lane. She has been divorced four times, has two children and lives in Nevada.When were you happiest? When my kids were young enough for me to carry them both, one on each hip. I miss walking in the door and them flinging themselves at me.What is the trait you most deplore in yourself?Whenever I am not being truthful, because I hate that in others.Property aside, what’s the most expensive thing you’ve bought? I decided I wanted a red convertible Jaguar, because I thought I would look the bee’s knees in it. The first time I drove it with the top down, it scared the shit out of me. After that, I only bought “mom” cars.What is your phone wallpaper? My cats. I have to rotate them so they don’t get jealous.What would your super power be? To be able to kill bad guys with sarcasm.What do you most dislike about your appearance? My stumpy short legs.What is your most unappealing habit?Snoring. I’ve woken myself up.What is your favourite smell? A puppy’s feet: like Doritos.What is your favourite word?Fuck, or any other curse word: I have a mouth like a sailor.If you could edit your past, what would you change? I read too much science fiction to mess with anything. I’d be terrified that, by changing something, my kids wouldn’t be mine.What is the worst thing anyone’s said to you? “I don’t love you any more.”Which book changed your life?Hamish Meets Bumpy Mackenzie. We used to get a book as a prize for coming first in class, and all through primary school I wanted to get up on that stage and pick out that prize.What is your guiltiest pleasure?Sitting around on my day off in my jammies, not showering, eating junk food and playing video games.What do you owe your parents?From my mom I got my work ethic. From my dad I learned that love is something you do, not just talk about.What was the best kiss of your life?Let’s just say it was stolen.Who would you invite to your dream dinner party?Interesting women: Mary Magdalene, Elizabeth I, Cleopatra and Jane Austen.What is the worst job you’ve done?A cafeteria in Glasgow where the manager was horrible. I walked out and got a great job in a betting shop.Irvine Welsh: ‘If I don’t have sex every day, I start to go a bit weird’ What has been your biggest disappointment?That I never found a way to stay in a relationship long term. I always feel trapped.If you could go back in time, where would you go?My dad died when I was 10, so I’d go back to when he was still healthy; we’d go on walks and to the movies.How often do you have sex?Not as often as I talk about it.What do you consider your greatest achievement?When I started out, people thought I was going to be a flash in the pan, but I’m still working.What is the most important lesson life has taught you? Everything changes: when good things happen, savour it; and when bad things happen, hang in there.