On 3 November 1969, as the Vietnam war and protests against it raged on, Richard Nixon addressed a divided nation. At the end of his 31-minute speech, he coined a phrase that stuck.Trump ends California swing marked by bold remarks, criticism and violence “So tonight,” he said, “to you, the great silent majority of my fellow Americans, I ask for your support.”Nixon had created a cultural shibboleth: the silent majority, the conservative masses, appalled at the cultural and political advances of the 1960s, ready to reel them back in. In the 1980s and 2000s, Ronald Reagan and George W Bush looked in the same direction. Now, in a bitter election year, the phrase is back.“I’ve no idea if Donald Trump even knows this,” says the writer Clara Bingham, “but many of the signs at his rallies say: ‘The silent majority stands with Trump.’ I don’t know if Trump needs to identify with Nixon.”Nixon looms large over Bingham’s new book, Witness to the Revolution, an oral history of 1969-70. Though most of her 100 interviewees are the “radicals, resisters, vets [and] hippies” who tell the story of a time in which “America lost its mind and found its soul”, she also spoke to law enforcement agents and staffers from the Nixon White House.Nonetheless, in the week of publication, Bingham has appeared on page and screen to discuss contemporary politics as well as historical fact. As Trump homes in on the Oval Office, as violence breaks out at his rallies, many fear America may be losing its mind. Others hope that in Bernie Sanders, it may yet rediscover its soul. Having pointed to the link between Nixon and Trump, Bingham proceeds to strengthen it. “The ‘silent majority’ is a very important catchphrase that Nixon first used,” she said, “when he decided to publicly take on the anti-war movement.“He wanted to vilify them, to marginalise them ... And this happened right after the [first] moratorium on the war, on 14 October, when two million people went on strike. They were regular Americans – they were not just hippie freaks – so Nixon needed to put them right back into their box and prove that the ‘silent majority’ was with him.“That phrase, ever since, has been loaded with all the vitriol and paranoia the Nixon administration had towards the anti-war left. They just decided, ‘Either you’re with me, or I’m going to obliterate you.’”Vilify, marginalise, vitriol, paranoia – familiar words in the age of Trump.“With Trump,” Bingham said, “it’s: ‘You’re either with me or you’re a sleazebag or a liar or a crook’ ... The anger of the Trump campaign, the anger of the protesters, the anger of the Trump people back at them, is, I think, completely haunted by the 60s.”‘This was civil war’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mary Ann Vecchio screams as she kneels by the body of Jeffrey Miller, on the campus of Kent State University, Kent, Ohio on 4 May 1970. Photograph: John Filo/AP1968 and all that: how Donald Trump channels the spirit of a most violent year Eight years ago, the election of Barack Obama seemed to indicate change in the corridors of American power. But at the end of the 1960s, when Obama was eight years old, the three contenders to succeed him had all reached voting age. Bingham says 2016 has become “the last shout of the boomers”. A decade and its discontents are back at the heart of American politics.Granted, things were a little more dramatic back then. Bingham lists the “hinge” events that affected most of her interviewees: the Chicago Democratic convention in 1968, the reporting of the My Lai massacre in 1969, the national guard killing Kent State students in 1970. “This was a civil war,” she says of the Kent State incident, which happened on 4 May 1970, and the “hard hat riot” of 8 May, in which New York construction workers attacked protesters mourning the students who died in Ohio. “At that stage, America was right on the brink of full-on chaos. You had 700 colleges shut down and 2.5 million students refused to go to school, 9,000 protests, 84 acts of arson … it was real, proper chaos.”Next to such numbers, the unrest of 2016 – even such street fights as broke out at a Trump rally in San Jose on Thursday – may seem more like unease. But wherever conversation about 1969 and 1970 goes, the echoes ring clear down the years.Bingham considers the rise of Sanders, a democratic socialist from Vermont, a sometime carpenter and folk singer, an “ex-hippie”. After all, the crowds turning out to see him as the California primary approaches surpass those who turn out for Trump.“In a way, I feel like the Bernie revolution is attempting to put in motion some of the unfinished business of the 60s revolution,” she says. “[But] it does make me chuckle a little bit when Bernie flings around the word ‘revolution’. OK, you got 15,000 people to come to your rally. That’s pretty great, and let’s face it, we haven’t seen 15,000 people come to rallies in a really long time.“But you know, when you have 500,000, then call me. Which is what there was 15 November 1969, with the second moratorium [against the Vietnam war] in Washington DC.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Moratorium Day peace parade passes through Washington on 15 November 1969, appropriating slogans. Photograph: APThe drivers of protest have changed too. More than America’s continuing wars, it is economic inequality, Bingham says, that now adds fuel to the fire. This is “the new Vietnam-lite”, she says, “and it’s what is galvanising the Trump and Sanders movements, the anger about being left out by Wall Street and the urban elites.”“Back in the 60s it was a generational gap, but now it is very much a class gap between the elites and the white working class, who have been left out by the new global economy and trade deals.”When Bingham gets going on an answer, it can – in the best possible way – be hard to get a word in edgeways. Born in 1963, she missed the 60s the first time round. There is no need to guess that she wishes she had experienced those years as an adult. She admits as much, speaking with gathering speed.“And then there’s the social angle, which is very similar to the 60s. Then, the hard hats were profoundly threatened by all the new personal liberties that the young hippie generation was espousing.“I quote Easy Rider at the beginning of the book: just having long hair was a huge threat to the status quo. And now we have a similar threat to the social status quo which is like the next round: gay rights. Let us not forget that only a year ago, gay marriage was not the law of the land.“I do think that some of the Trump anger could come from reaction to the supreme court on gay marriage. And you add to it Obama’s transgender bathroom directive and there is the sense again that the old world order is under attack. Immigration feeds into it, too. “It started in the 50s, which is what Trump is talking about when he says he wants to ‘Make America Great Again’. In the Eisenhower 50s, the Reagan 80s, white males had power. And let’s face it, unless you have a college degree, if you’re a white male now, your white skin privilege, as they called it in the 60s, is no longer.”‘The thrill of the hunt’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Richard Nixon mingles with protesters at the Lincoln Memorial. Clara Bingham interviewed Lauree Moss, centre, for her new book. Photograph: Bettmann Archive      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Clara Bingham. Photograph: Maggie PetersBingham has written two other books – Women on the Hill and Class Action, the former about women in Congress, the latter the story of a sexual discrimination suit brought by Minnesota miners and turned into a 2005 film, North Country.She is also an experienced journalist, a former White House correspondent and the author of a famous exposé of rape at the US Air Force Academy. In 2011, she produced The Last Mountain, a well-received documentary about environmentally ruinous mining in her home state, Kentucky. The oral history of Witness to the Revolution therefore came naturally, she said, particularly the “thrill of the hunt” of tracking down interviews with former members of the Weather Underground, such as Bill Ayers; Karl Armstrong, one of the men who bombed the University of Wisconsin; and Wayne Smith, a black Vietnam veteran. More well known interviewees, such as Jane Fonda and Daniel Ellsberg, the man who leaked the Pentagon Papers, required a different approach.Bingham also spoke to the “other side” – men who might even have considered themselves members of the silent majority: Stephen Bull, a Nixon aide; Bill Dyson, an FBI agent.Such work took time: Bingham started in 2012. By publishing day this week, six of her 100 subjects were dead. The rest are all in their 60s and 70s, which drove her to record their experiences before it became too late. But as she worked, the 2016 election approached, heating the political climate and ensuring she was not writing for posterity alone. “The process of the book was, ‘Am I going to find the person who was shot and paralysed at Kent State, Dean Kahler, and will he till me his story?’ It was like that everywhere,” she says.“I interviewed so many people who’d been fugitives, so many people who’d gone to jail, people who had been paralysed from either being a Vietnam vet or being shot by the Ohio national guard. “Everyone had a trauma.”Witness to the Revolution is published in the US by Penguin Random House.