There’s a certain bohemian timelessness to the London home of Jess Morris and Tim Watkins. In the garden, silk bunting flickers through the trees and wine is uncorked at midday. Leopard print, velvet. Frank Zappa stares down at you on the loo. But despite their glam 70s sensibility, the label – first silk scarves, now denim – that the couple launched from their living room is surprisingly modern, in that it’s exactly right for now.“Stretch denim is the scourge of the planet,” Morris says, crossing her legs. “When I heard that leggings were the best-selling item in the world, well. It made me want to burn everything down.” “Denim should be hard,” adds Watkins, serious as death. Vogue agrees, calling time on skinny jeans. “Endless sightings of perfect stiffened jeans at last summer’s festivals and never-ending mood pics via the Instagram feeds have fuelled a mainstream appetite for genuine non-stretch jeans,” wrote news editor Julia Hobbs this summer. Catwalks are running blue with denim, while vintage jeans are in high demand. Vetements chopped up old pairs, stitching them together for a straighter leg and higher rise. At £880, they sold out immediately. Perfect timing then, for Rockins to reveal its new designs, key terms: Blondie, Gaye Advert, Thelma & Louise, sex.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Double denim: jeans go back to the 70s.The couple started out in 2014 making silk scarves as Christmas presents when “we were too broke to buy anything for our rich friends”. When one of the friends – Kate Moss – started being papped in hers, and another photographed his for a glossy fashion magazine, they thought, “Maybe we should do this for real.”They have created a rock ’n’ roll family business – their eldest son coined the name Rockins when he couldn’t pronounce his dad’s surname – and their boys Vinnie, nine, and Lennie, seven, wear the scarves proudly, the former with one draped around his neck, the other with his as a jaunty belt.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rock it: denim courtesy of RockinsWatkins bounces into the flat, returning with earlier handmade Christmas gifts, including a customised album sleeve, where the faces cut out of the Rolling Stones’ Some Girls cover are replaced with those of their mates. There’s Moss, and Paul Simonon, and Sadie Frost, and... “Luckily they’re all quite searchable on Google Images,” he says dryly. The scarves, each packaged in its own customised 7in sleeve, started selling – Joan Jett was photographed wearing one, then Steven Tyler, then Keith Richards. What happened? “What happened is we’re fucking lucky to be best friends with Kate Moss,” Morris cackles smokily.Though their celebrity connections undoubtedly contributed to their early success, she’s underplaying the brand’s appeal. Their 1920s-inspired bias-cut silk scarves caught the moment, lassoed it. Skinny scarves were on Prada catwalks shortly after they launched Rockins, and the 1970s continue to influence fashion – the louche rock-star look they deal in is in demand, pushed by both Topman and Saint Laurent. Rockins is the bestselling scarf brand in Liberty, and, after denim, a homeware collection – Lux Interiors – will follow.Morris grew up in Southsea, where her mum ran a second-hand clothes shop. “‘Vintage’ hadn’t been invented yet.” When she moved to London she became a shop assistant at Gucci, going on to work for Vivienne Westwood, and later running the PR for Agent Provocateur. She met Watkins when she was 38 and he was 29 – he had moved from Birmingham to work with Jamie Hewlett, creator of Gorillaz, who had the office next door. “I saw him and thought, ‘We’re from the same tribe.’” A year later, Morris was pregnant with Vinnie.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Arresting looks: reinventing denim with Rockins“We had both worked for ‘outsider brands’,” Watkins says. Designers who “weren’t too caught up with what other people think”. “No rules, no restrictions,” Morris says, with a hint of wistful nostalgia. “At Agent Provocateur we marched girls in police leather and nipple tassels down Oxford Street. Whenever we did a stunt like that, Joe [Corré, co-founder of the brand and son of Vivienne Westwood and Malcolm McLaren] had to go to court and pay a £2,000 fine, but he figured it was worth it.” It was this “maverick education” that gave them confidence to start out on their own.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Last September Rockins started taking apart vintage jeans – Helmut Lang, Levi’s – and remade the patterns to their very particular specifications. They talk me through their first pair, modelled by Morris. They’re high-waisted, tight and tough. She mimics the cowboy dance you have to do to pull them on, then turns around to show me the view from behind. “This is what you want. This W, see?” Comfort, she says, is overrated. These are jeans to be chucked on the floor at the end of the night, and washed no more than once a month. They’re meant to last for ever, but take weeks to break in. She grins. “Whoever said it should be easy?”Available from 15 September at matchesfashion.com