Mary Beard once pointed out that in antiquity, men openly admitted it: they didn’t like the sound of a woman’s voice. Modern life reveals traces of that attitude in the destructive metaphors we use to describe how women sound. Angry women are “shrill”; intelligent women are “sharp”. And, as any woman who uses her voice for work – in, for example, a podcast – will tell you, men are not shy about complaining. They have thousands of complaints, about your tone and your language. They will say you have “vocal fry”, but what they mean is: I don’t like having to listen to you.That makes the dominance of women in podcasts a sound to behold. For a long time, it seemed as if podcasting was a male realm, but no longer. Sure, there are lots of men doing podcasts, but women are voicing a lot of the form’s biggest hits. Serial, the podcast that made podcasts a phenomenon, was narrated by a woman. Then Starlee Kine lit up the iTunes charts with her sorely missed Mystery Show. And that’s before we get to NPR and BBC stalwarts, such as Terry Gross and Kirsty Young. The podcast revolution has taught us that women’s voices aren’t just pleasurable to listen to, they are essential. Here are the can’t-miss-podcasts produced, reported and performed by women in 2017:2 Dope QueensJessica Williams and Phoebe Robinson met by chance, through Williams’s gig on The Daily Show. But they sound as if they have been friends for a million years in each and every episode of 2 Dope Queens, which started out as a live show and whose episodes are often recorded live. The style is a free-form riff, and the two joke about Tinder, race, cinema, RuPaul’s Drag Race and a variety of other subjects. The podcast has been credited with breaking up the white-guy domination of the comedy scene, by having comedians of every shape, size and background on the show. Their ascension has seemed effortless.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anna Sale … cathartic. Photograph: Andrew Morales/Rex/ShutterstockYou Must Remember ThisKarina Longworth’s classic Hollywood podcast got its first burst of attention when she did a sprawling 12-part series on the Manson murders. In her hands, that story wasn’t just the story of a deranged man and his band of deranged followers. It was about the way the violence seeped into the soil of Hollywood and touched more than just the lives of the victims. Longworth has continued with that big-picture approach (no pun intended) in her series on the anti-communist blacklists of the 1950s, and, right now, her three-parter on the life and death of Marilyn Monroe. Longworth writes and narrates all the episodes herself, with only the occasional guest. Each one is a masterclass in structure and the careful use of detail. Plus, you’ll learn a lot you didn’t know about a lot of famous people.Scummy MummiesIf you took the bodies-are-gross-but-funny ethos of the early feminist websites – think the original Jezebel – and applied them to a parenting blog, you would get something like Scummy Mummies. Every episode of Helen Thorn and Ellie Gibson’s gleefully profane take on pregnancy and motherhood involves a lot of swearing and cackling. In an era where parenting is often fetishised and sanitised for readers of parenting blogs, their impious attitude towards it all is near-revolutionary. Listen to the midwife episode and marvel at their explicit discussion of the biological reality of being pregnant and giving birth. It is nice to have such honesty come out from behind closed doors. Also, once you hear about how one of the hosts has a rare condition in that episode, you’ll be hooked.In the DarkMadeleine Baran’s first season followed the case of Jacob Wetterling, a long-missing child in Minnesota whose disappearance was solved just a few weeks before Baran’s first season began airing. Another breed of podcaster might have been disappointed by the way this ruined her dramatic suspense, but Baran was interested in something wider than a whodunnit. To find out what it was, you’ll have to binge-listen to the first season (in order). The series is perfectly constructed, each episode opening a new avenue of the mystery. Baran has promised there will be season two and her thoughtful, careful style makes her a uniquely empathic entry into the true-crime genre.Women challenging the patriarchy – one podcast at a time Melanin Millennials“Millennials” has become a kind of modern swearword, a slur directed at people in their early 20s. But here, it’s an asset. Anyone who was once a smart, sceptical and young woman won’t be able to help but fall in love with London’s Imrie and Satia. Partly inspired by the example of BuzzFeed’s Another Round in the US, the pair simply chat for an hour or so about whatever subjects happen to be on their mind – sometimes it is the latest issue being raised by #BlackLivesMatter movement, sometimes it’s relationships; other times it’s rape culture. The intelligence of Imrie and Satia’s discussions puts a lot of regular BBC and NPR commentators to shame.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kelly McEvers … Embedded. Photograph: Amanda Edwards/WireImageDeath, Sex and MoneyThere is something about Anna Sale’s interview style that lets her guests open up as if they have known her (and her thousands of listeners) for ever. The topics are all there in the title, and though, in other hands, this could have become sentimental fast, Sale always manages to keep things above water. Sometimes, she explores the stories of ordinary people, such as the woman who discovered that her dying husband was having an affair, but never got a chance to confront him about it. At other times, she interviews celebrities, as with her excellent interview featuring Ellen Burstyn. But any tears Sale might inspire feel cathartic – and fully earned. Barbara Walters wishes she were this good.Embedded Most journalism is done quickly and cheaply these days. Few reporters get to do what Kelly McEvers does in every episode of Embedded: go deep into a story and tease out what is really happening. This season, the show is exploring police-shooting videos. And, even though those videos have been on the front pages of American newspapers and websites for years, you can learn a lot from getting into these weeds. While McEvers and crew are sceptical of police narratives, they are also interested in the reason the police have been so trigger-happy. In the latest episode, they focused on a time when a cop exercised self-control and stopped himself from shooting a suspected murderer.Call Your GirlfriendIn what sounds like an unlikely premise, Ann Friedman and Aminatou Sow took their real-life long-distance friendship update calls and turned them into a podcast. But the pair are so charming that each episode goes down like a long glass of wine after a hard day. Friedman and Sow are both politics and pop-culture junkies, so in a single conversation like the one they have on the latest episode of the show, they will lead into a conversation about Neil Gorsuch’s supreme court confirmation hearings with, “Hi, Boober, how’s your day going?” (Sow, greeting Friedman.) The intimacy of the conversation is part of the appeal – the tangle of personal and political in this friendship is so easy to relate to.