When I was growing up, my father Bruce wanted us all to like oysters. In New Zealand, you get special bluff oysters from the south of South Island: lovely specimens with the creamiest flavour.When I was little, though, for some reason you could only get them in a can. Which you bought in a pharmacy. Not sure why. New Zealand was strange in those days. Olive oil was another thing you could only ever get in pharmacies.So we weren’t at all convinced about oysters. The texture was too much for us. We’d watch our dad shove one in his gob and think “that is so disgusting”. So he decided to cut stale white bread into cubes and pour the juice from a can of oysters (which he ate) over them, then dip those into a fish-and-chips-style beer batter. He’d fry them – a delicious oyster-flavoured crunch – and that’s how he got us all hooked. We’re all great oyster fans now.We grew up in a coastal town called Whanganui, on the west coast of North Island. There’s a black sandy beach, where New Zealand’s longest navigable river, dark and muddy, spills into a very cold ocean. It’s not the tropics.We lived in Castlecliff, a part of town with a romantic name. Our house was really well known on our street and beyond as the Zigzag House – you can see the colourful roof-tile pattern from which it got its name on Google Earth. It sits on a half-acre plot, a big hunk of land. We had a swimming pool that my father built, and an electric merry-go-round based on a washing machine motor that he knocked together, too. All the kids were given a bit of land, and we’d compete to see who’d grow the best beans, tomatoes, pumpkin …In the summer, my dad and his mates would go down to the shoreline and drop fishing nets. Before school, we’d be roped in to fillet and salt fish, then go home and have fresh fish, battered and fried, caught a mere 30 minutes earlier. Even though we lived in town, we learned about growing our own produce – and eating our pets. We had a pet sheep we called Lambchops that Dad gave us for fun. And initially it was, but then it became a chore. One day, when she was about 18 months, we were eating and Dad said: “Do you remember your little pet? You’re having her for lunch.” My sister spat her lamb out and ran from the table. She became a veggie. These days, she posts the most delicious meaty shots on Instagram, so that didn’t last. At the time, though, I wasn’t shocked. I was just thinking: “God, this is delicious.”We weren’t foodies. We ate simple food. No chilli, very little garlic, no risotto or balsamic. Pasta came out of a can. We had a supermarket-size freezer in the living room, which was always hilariously full of dead things: half a sheep, shoulders … It’s still there.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Eat them with a beer, like my dad,’ says Peter Gordon. Photograph: Peter Bezuijen for the GuardianOyster and beer batter frittersServes 4-6200g flour½ tsp smoked paprika (optional – Dad would never have heard of it!)1 tsp salt2 tsp sugar1 tsp baking powder230ml beer, at room temperature (lager is best; dark ale overpowers the oysters)2 tbsp chives, chopped 8 oysters2 tbsp oyster sauce3-4 thick slices of slightly stale white bread, cut into largeish cubes (if the bread is fresh the fritters will become soggy)Oil, for deep-fryingLemon wedges, to serveSara Roahen’s recipe for chicken and sausage gumbo | A taste of home 1 Heat the oil to 180C/350F.2 Make the batter by sieving the flour, smoked paprika, salt, sugar and baking powder. Whisk in half the beer slowly, making sure there are no lumps. Whisk in the chives then the remaining beer.3 Open the oysters, put in a small blender with the oyster sauce and 3 tbsp cold water, and pulse to a smoothish puree.4 Lay the bread cubes in a wide bowl and drizzle the oyster puree over. Gently toss the bread to coat evenly – it will suck up the juice, so work quickly. Give the batter a gentle whisk, then add the bread, 6-8 chunks at a time, and gently toss to coat them evenly.5 Deep-fry in the oil until golden, shaking off excess batter to form what we called “crunchies”, and turning them a few times so they cook evenly. Put on to kitchen paper, sprinkle with salt, and keep them in a warm oven while you cook the rest.6 Eat while hot and still crunchy.Peter Gordon is executive chef and co-owner of The Providores and Tapa Room, London