Raised in London, David Baddiel, devised the Fantasy Football League television show with Frank Skinner in 1994. He writes novels for adults and children, and scripted the 2010 movie The Infidel. His one-man show, My Family: Not The Sitcom, runs at the Menier Chocolate Factory in London until 25 June. Now 51, he has two children with the actor and writer Morwenna Banks.When were you happiest? I’ve never been entirely happy, although for about 45 seconds after David Platt scored the winning goal against Belgium in the World Cup in 1990, I kind of blacked out with joy.What is your greatest fear? Injury, or worse, to my children.Which living person do you most admire, and why?The comedian Norm Macdonald. He’s the funniest man in the world, but so committed to being funny, he’s continually screwing up his career.What is the trait you most deplore in yourself?The fact that I will age and die.What is the trait you most deplore in others?Lack of self-awareness. Although in great sitcom characters, it’s a must.What makes you unhappy?The rush to judgment on social media. And indeed, all media.What did you want to be when you were growing up? A footballer. I sometimes say to people, “I could have been a professional footballer, if I’d wanted to.” They say, “You did want to.”What or who is the greatest love of your life?Morwenna Banks.What does love feel like?A deep, trusting peace.If you could bring something extinct back to life, what would you choose?My sitcom, Baddiel’s Syndrome.What was your most embarrassing moment?On live global TV for Live Earth in 2007, I was talking to a climate change scientist and began to say the phrase, “Just for today, I’m going to pretend to be a climate change denier.” Unfortunately, I said holocaust denier.What do you most dislike about your appearance?The fact that it causes me to continually be mistaken for Ben Elton, Alan Yentob, Ian Broudie or Mark Watson.Who would play you in the film of your life?Ben Elton, Alan Yentob, Ian Broudie or Mark Watson.Which book changed your life?Couples by John Updike. He remains my touchstone of great writing.To whom would you most like to say sorry, and why?My parents, for my new show.When did you last cry, and why? I cry a lot. Especially on planes. What is that about? On a plane, I’ll be in floods at The Good Dinosaur.Q&A: Bill Bryson, author – ‘When did I last cry? When the Guardian called me a scaremonger’ How often do you have sex?Not often enough. But I, and almost all men I know, have always felt that.What single thing would improve the quality of your life?A spreadsheet that, taking into account all other people’s experiences, makes it absolutely clear that I do have enough sex.What song would you like played at your funeral?When my daughter Dolly was 10, she took part in a talent show. She sang Elton John’s Your Song, and knocked it out of the park. I’d like the recording I made of that.