Melbourne writer Liam Pieper describes himself growing up as “a bookish kid and sort of lonely”, but it’s a picture at odds with the drug-fuelled, riotous young life that he chronicled in his acclaimed 2014 memoir, The Feel-Good Hit of the Year.His second book, Mistakes Were Made, was a collection of personal essays about the highs and lows that followed the release of that controversial memoir, which revealed Pieper to be a petty criminal in his youth, and gathered a good deal of awkward press surrounding his family life.You might think Pieper’s new book, The Toymaker, represents his desire to retreat from memoir into novels – but the subject matter doesn’t reveal an inclination to take the easy route: he’s decided to write fiction about the Holocaust. The virtual Holocaust survivor: how history gained new dimensions Pieper believes the hard distinction between fiction and nonfiction is overrated anyway: “A recent development made by a modern marketing apparatus,” he argues. “Like old man Oscar said, ‘There is no such thing as a moral or an immoral book. Books are well written or badly written. That is all.’”If a distinction does exist, Pieper has found a way to take the best methods from each approach, combining rigorous research with a good deal of imagination. He says he just wants to “entertain, and if at all possible, say something in the subtext”. Guardian Australia: Part of The Toymaker is set in Prague, where you lived for three months as part of the Unesco Cities of Literature program. Did you know you wanted to use the time in the city as research for The Toymaker?Liam Pieper: I had the bones of The Toymaker before I’d gotten to Prague, and that’s what I pitched to Unesco, who sent me over. That said, the various elements and themes didn’t really gel until I was over there, could walk the streets I was writing about, could stand in the town square and see where my characters would have stood. The real heart of this novel took shape when I visited Bubny Station, the sleepy commuter station from which Prague’s Jews boarded trains to be taken to their deaths on an ordinary morning in 1942. Commuter trains rolled by full of ordinary people on their way to work, ignoring what was happening.There’s a monument there now. The railway tracks that the trains to Auschwitz were carried on have been rerouted and head up towards the sky, to heaven. It’s very striking. The idea is that people travelling past on their commutes will see this object that looks fundamentally wrong, and ask what it is, and think about it – the way they didn’t back in 1942. If enough of those commuters had spoken up, things would have been very different. Silence is deadly.My new book is my answer to that monument. I see what is happening in the world right now, and it terrifies me that too few people are thinking about it. This is my attempt at getting people to think about where their society is going, to not be silent about it.With such a strong history of memoir writing, is research still your starting point for fiction too? I write in both fiction and nonfiction modes because they allow different approaches. Sometimes you need the power that only veracity can bring to writing. Sometimes you need to explore some deeper truth that can only be excavated through fiction. The characters in this book are a mixture of historical models and imaginary friends. The character of Arkady, for example, is loosely modelled on the Hungarian pathologist Miklós Nyiszli, who collaborated with [Nazi doctor] Josef Mengele in order to save his family from terrible deaths – but his character is a composite of a lot of kind, stoic survivors of the camps that I grew up around [in an area of Melbourne which is home to many Holocaust survivors], people who had survived unimaginable horror and had come through the other side.The dignity of those people, that sense of quiet dread they carried around under their cheerfulness, informed this book more than anything else. Love is the best revenge for the evils of the Holocaust People will always ask if writers have the right to write fiction about atrocities that they haven’t experienced. As both a memoir and fiction writer, where do you stand on this argument? Were you nervous about hitting the right tone?I think it was Flannery O’Connor who said, “You can do anything you can get away with.” Some reviews have called this book “bold” or “confident”, which is a nice thing to have said about you, but truthfully I am shit-scared. Mainly that I would cause offence or suffering to survivors and their families. There were many, many nights that I was paralysed by that fear.Some scholars of the Holocaust have decided that its existence defies human reason, that it can never be understood. I don’t disagree, but I think we have the duty to try to understand. One older Polish man who was integral in helping me write this book told me that the only thing you can learn from the atrocity is that it must never happen again.A catchcry of survivors around the world is “never forget”, and all the survivors I spoke to reiterated this to me. Never forget – because to forget is to risk the old hatreds rising. And every year more survivors pass away, sadly, so it’s up to us to remember. The legacy rests with the diaspora, but the complicity of silence falls on the world and the responsibility belongs to us all. • The Toymaker is out now through Penguin Random House