For every parent, a child’s transition from primary to secondary school is poignant and bittersweet. You may be proud and excited, and your child might be more than ready – but there’s still a sense of time rushing away from you, of childhood running out, and not quite knowing what or who will emerge.All this was true for artist Melanie Manchot when her daughter, Billie, her only child, approached 11. “It’s such a significant time in a child’s life,” she says. “Billie would have an hour journey to her secondary school, taking a bus and a train on her own, whereas until then, I’d taken her to her local primary each morning by the hand and met her at the gate at 3pm. I was hyper aware of the letting go, of Billie moving away from us and having a life outside the family. It’s a huge leap.”It was this leap that led to the idea of trying to chart the changes ahead by filming Billie for just one minute every month until she turned 18. It would be in Manchot’s studio, standing in exactly the same spot each time, no sound, no colour, just Billie before the camera, being herself. “From 11 to 18, Billie would change from a child to an adolescent to a teenager then an adult,” says Manchot. “I wondered, by the end, what continuity would we see? Would we still see the same person?” When Manchot proposed the idea to her daughter, the answer was an instant yes. Growing up in Hoxton, east London, in a home that serves as a studio for both her parents – her father, Stuart Haygarth, is also an artist – meant Billie was familiar with the processes involved. “She grasped the idea quickly,” Manchot says. “To me, it was a commitment from the beginning. I wanted it to last for seven years. For Billie, it was much lighter – a ‘let’s try it’.”  This wasn’t the first time Manchot, who was born in Germany, had included family in her work. She first came to prominence in the mid-90s with a series of portraits of her mother, who was then 65, most of them naked and many billboard size. (Indeed, some were billboards that were hung outside South Kensington tube station.) “It started with one image I wanted to make and I asked my mother if she’d be willing to work with me,” says Manchot. “It was about the representation of women and the notion of beauty – particularly when women are beyond a certain age. In many ways, they are incredibly beautiful, but they reach a point of invisibility. Their bodies may be complicated, a little bit unruly, beyond what we readily accept.”What started as one studio shoot stretched into a five-year project, with Manchot photographing her mother outside, still naked, in all the places she frequented – at her home in Düsseldorf, at a favourite mountain hideaway. “I got to follow her, see where she goes, what she does,” Manchot says. It deepened an already close relationship.“My father died suddenly when I was three months old. I was the first and only child and so, growing up, it was just me and my mum,” she says. “We have a super-close relationship but by the time of the photographs, I’d lived in New York and was now in London, so we weren’t physically close. It was also a way of spending time together, of inviting her into what had become the most important thing in my life. “We’d quite often spend a day or two days taking photographs, sitting, talking – there’s also an incredibly strong intimacy involved in being around someone’s naked body, in being allowed that. To me, it was the same with Billie. It’s was a privilege being allowed to film her all that time.”  Starting in May 2008, when Billie turned 11 – her last term of primary school – the project slipped seamlessly into their routine. “It was always at the beginning of the month, Billie back from school, at the end of my working day,” says Manchot. “We’d go downstairs to the studio. I marked the spot Billie would stand and where the camera would be and it stayed the same for seven years.” There’s no narrative, no story. But, in a way, there is. It’s the story of growing upMelanie Manchot For Billie, now 18, it was no big deal. “It was only a minute so not that bad, though there were times I was less keen,” Billie says. “You have to stay in the one spot and there’s obviously no sound, so you are limited in what you can do. I think the fact that it was a film, not a photograph made it more representative. You can pose for a quick photo but when you’re standing there for a minute, it feels more like you.“It wasn’t digital – it was all shot on Super 8 – so I didn’t really see it afterwards. We might film for a year and then it would be sent off to be developed. I didn’t have a sense of what it would all be like.”Manchot was equally uncertain: “I didn’t see it for long periods and didn’t know what it would become. Billie had veto rights all the way through – as my mother had before. She could always say ‘I don’t want to do this’ or ‘I want this to stay private’. Then it would become a portrait for us as a family.”Filming finished last May as Billie turned 18, about the time of her A-levels. and shortly afterwards, Manchot was invited to exhibit at the Institute of Contemporary Arts. “The timing was amazing,” she says. “The show was the week of 14 September – and on the 19th, we would be taking Billie to Leeds to start university.  I was looking back at all this film, seeing the years gone by, putting it into a sequence – and Billie was packing up her whole life, ready to leave.” The installation, 11/18, is an  18-minute sequence, with a screen for each year, the early years unreachable, set right at the back. “There’s no narrative, no story,” says Manchot. “But in a way, there is. It’s the story of growing up.”Billie at 11 looks more playful, more relaxed. She laughs and yawns and shows things to the camera – her guinea pig, her newly pierced ears. Her hair goes through typical changes – straight fringe, side fringe, no fringe. Makeup appears. The older Billie is more still, more wary, more steady and composed. There’s the sense of an interior, a holding back. But still there’s continuity. Certain gestures – the way Billie pushes back her hair and looks up, for example – survive from 11 into adulthood. In the final minute, all the images appear at the same time – all the Billies present together. And then they are gone.How did Billie feel, seeing all her former selves? “I went along to the show with some of my friends – people who’d known me through all those years,” she says. “It was funny seeing it just as I was about to leave – but really nice to have it. I’m very glad we did it.”What’s striking as a parent is how fast we can forget our children’s younger selves, how completely they vanish. Has making 11/18 helped Manchot hold on to every age and stage? “When I see young children now, it seems such a distance,” she says. “I remember Billie being six clearly and poignantly – we spent a month in Ibiza and I can almost project myself back to that time and see her and feel her, the size, the dimensions. But there are lots of times between that have disappeared because that’s what time does – you can’t hold on to it.“I remember filming Billie so well – some of those memories are so powerful, what she wore, how she rolled up her T-shirt. The marks of where we had to stand are still there on the studio floor and I’m going to keep them for ever. Maybe part of making this was to allow me as a mother and as an artist to stay more in touch with the many small moments that slip away.”11/18 is included in Melanie Manchot’s exhibition People Places Propositions at Towner Art Gallery, Eastbourne, 16 April to 26 June, townereastbourne.org.uk 