My kitchen is … not mine. I left my flat and job in theatre late last year to pursue a career in food. Earlier this year, I found a job as a part-time au pair; I make breakfast and dinner for the kids, and then have time to write and cook all day while they’re at school. It also means I spend my days in the biggest, brightest, most beautiful kitchen I’ve ever been in – either testing recipes, or spreading out my books and research on the enormous dining table. I miss my old kitchen (and my kitchen paraphernalia, which is all still in boxes), but I can’t imagine a better space in which to write a cookbook.My favourite kitchen tool is … my green rubber spatula. I have had it for years and use it constantly – for baking, certainly, but also to stir stocks and stews, to flip things over in a frying pan, or to scoop yoghurt out of the bottom of a tub. It’s almost always dirty in the sink, awaiting its next task.My storecupboard staple is … Maldon sea salt, if I can only have one. But I also always have dried spaghetti, lemons, chilli flakes and a decent collection of tinned fish (anchovies, sardines and mackerel), which can all come together to make the easiest possible supper, without having to dash to the shops.When I’m starving I … will always reach for some version of toast with egg and avocado. I eat it multiple times a week – for breakfast, lunch or dinner. My current favourite is to fry the egg in some anchovies and then top with a little parmesan.My culinary inspiration is … literature. I have always been a voracious reader, and spent much of my childhood wishing I could run off on adventures with Harry, Ron and Hermione, travel to the north with Lyra and Will in Pullman’s Northern Lights, or sit in the kitchen with I Capture the Castle’s Cassandra Mortmain. As I grew older, the feasts these characters enjoyed hadn’t faded from my memory, so I started to recreate them. I am currently working on a book filled with 100 recipes from my favourite novels (from Anna Karenina to Norwegian Wood to Winnie-the-Pooh).‘Giving yourself a challenge is the only way to become a better cook’ | Kitchen encounters My best-kept kitchen secret is … to cook with people. I love getting friends involved in whatever it is we’re going to have for dinner; helping me fold dumplings, or shape bread, or add the butter while I whisk the hollandaise. The joy of being an au pair is getting the kids involved in cooking too – it’s wonderful to see their enthusiasm for everything from peeling onions and stirring cheese sauce, to taste-testing different types of custard.When I’m invited to dinner, I always take … something homemade – like a batch of biscuits – that I can either leave behind or that we can crack into at 11pm. Or a bottle of wine, prosecco or sherry, which I find is never unwelcome.Everything tastes better with … salt. I use it all the time, in both sweet and savoury cooking. My favourite sweet recipe right now is a spice cookie I’m working on – they get a little pinch of smoked salt on top as soon as they come out of the oven.When I go shopping I … really miss Newington Green Fruit and Veg. I used to live about 15 minutes walk away, and would wander over every Saturday to stock up for the week. It’s my favourite food shop in London; even though I am now in Clapham, I’ll go out of my way to visit it and pick up something I’ve been missing. I genuinely find myself dreaming about their tomatoes, their blood oranges and their radishes.For dinner tonight … I’ll be having something off my list of recipes for the book. I’m about to start shooting, so I am in a cycle of trialling and re-trialling recipes to make sure that they’re perfect. Tonight itwill either be the meat pie and assorted pickles enjoyed by the Blyton’s Famous Five or the March sisters’ buckwheat cakes. And Edmund’s Turkish delight for pudding.