Blue cheese dip may seem an odd choice so soon after Christmas excess, but it’s the perfect last hurrah for any odds and ends still hanging around after the festive season, and a very painless way to ease yourself into the inevitable new year resolutions – after all, raw broccoli and carrot batons never taste better than when smothered in cheese. A stalwart of the classic supermarket selection back in the days when, for most of us, hummus was something half heard on Gardeners’ Question Time and guacamole was very rarely mistaken for mushy peas, blue cheese dip is definitely due a revival. Just make sure you remember the crudites to go with it.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jamie Forrest’s blue cheese dip. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianThe cheeseGiven this is a recipe designed to use up leftovers, it would feel wrong to get too prescriptive about specific varieties. However, if when that seasonal weight has lifted, you do wish to purchase some cheese specially, I would recommend a gorgonzola piccante, as suggested by Jamie Forrest on the Serious Eats website as being “not too mild but not too assertive either, and with a characteristic twang that really made the dip something special”. You may be relieved to hear that the last of the Christmas stilton will also work well, although some testers found it slightly bitter, while BBC Good Food’s more assertively salty roquefort also had its fans. Creamier St Agur, which I thought would be a shoo-in, proved too shy and retiring for most of us, and the fourme d’ambert, used by chef Alessandro Grano in Alex and Leo Guarneri’s book A Year in Cheese, was deemed similarly disappointing. Play around with what you have, but I reckon meek and mild blues are best deployed elsewhere.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alessandro Grano’s dip uses fourme d’ambert. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianThe foundationsMore important than your choice of cheese, I think, is what you mix it with; the base of the dip will dictate the consistency and, to some extent, the flavour profile of the finished product. Use a mixture of cream cheese, double cream and thick labneh yoghurt, as Forrest suggests, and your dip will be both solid enough to wreak some serious deforestation on the unwary broccoli floret, and so rich and creamy that you might not feel like going back to clean up the damage. BBC Good Food’s mixture of creme fraiche and mayonnaise, by contrast, is almost runny enough to qualify as a salad dressing. Some testers find the tang of the mayonnaise, which also comes through in the Bon Appetit recipe using sour cream, comes through too strongly, preferring a more neutral base, such as Grano’s fromage blanc (Greek yoghurt makes a good substitute) or Forrest’s cream cheese. This is also used by Jane Nickerson, whose 1953 recipe is collected in the New York Times Cookbook. Her mix of cream cheese and sour cream is the most successful combination for both texture and flavour, although if you’re looking for a slightly lighter version, equal parts Greek yoghurt and sour cream are rather nice.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bon Appetit’s sour cream version. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianAlthough I’m sceptical about the use of anything mechanical here, given how easy it is to crush the cheese with a fork, as Bon Appetit suggests, if you happen to have a stick blender or a small food processor, it does help to aerate the dip, giving it a more moussey consistency. Keep some of the crumbled cheese back to stir in after blending for a more interesting texture and flavour.The extrasBon Appetit and Grano both flavour their dips with garlic, Forrest prefers spring onion, while Nickerson seasons it with “onion juice” which, a note explains, “mid-century cooks used … the way we now use garlic”. Not only is it more of a faff to prepare (really, who enjoys grating an onion?), but it has a harsher, more one-dimensional flavour than its modern counterpart, while spring onions, much as I love them, remind us all of cheap cheese and onion sandwiches. Garlic and the chives Grano uses seem to blend better with the other ingredients. He also adds chervil, and Bon Appetit pops in thyme, but testers can’t pick up either, and with a flavour as strong as blue cheese, it seems pointless to try to compete.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   BBC Good Food adds Worcestershire sauce. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianMany recipes use vinegar to balance the richness of the other ingredients, whether red or white wine, or sherry; I happen to think cider works best. Nickerson stirs in a generous amount of dry sherry itself, which gives her dip a confusing, if not entirely unpleasant, savoury flavour somewhere between an amuse bouche and an aperitif. BBC Good Food adds a similar, if slightly sweeter note with Worcestershire sauce, which you may like to consider if you make your dip with Greek yoghurt, or your chosen cheese turns out to be milder than you expected – it adds a bit of oomph to proceedings. Which, given the year we’ve got ahead of us, you might well need. Happy 2017!The perfect blue cheese dip      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Perfect blue cheese dip. Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the Guardian(Makes 1 bowl)1 garlic clove, crushed75g cream cheese3 tbsp sour cream110g strong blue cheese (I like gorgonzola piccante), crumbled1 tbsp cider vinegar2 tbsp chives, finely choppedPut the garlic, cream cheese and sour cream in a bowl with two-thirds of the blue cheese and whiz with a stick blender until fairly smooth. Stir in the vinegar and taste, adding a little more if necessary, and then fold in the remaining cheese and the chives, reserving a pinch for the top.If you don’t have a stick blender, put the garlic and vinegar in a bowl and add two-thirds of the blue cheese. Mash hard with a fork until it breaks down into tiny pieces. Beat the cream cheese to loosen it, then fold in the sour cream and stir both into the cheese mixture. Fold in the vinegar and most of the chives, reserving a pinch for the top, then taste and add a little more vinegar, if necessary. Serve with lots of raw vegetables.Blue cheese dip: a forgotten classic or the last thing you fancy at this time of year? Does anyone still buy those supermarket dip quartets? And which other festive leftovers are you currently struggling to find a home for?