"The Greens are finished" chants Tim Montgomery – his Times editorial joining heavily orchestrated wishful thinking last week. But an opposite concern is ironically more serious. If judged by its roots, the greatest danger for the green movement lies more in the trappings of success, than in Montgomery's asserted "failure". And there also emerge here some important implications for Enlightenment traditions of science.Myriad strivings for "liberation", "equality", "internationalism" and "nonviolence" flow vibrantly in "environmentalism". Remember "peace" alongside the "green"? Roots of these restless challenges are as old as hierarchy itself. They remind that ecological – like human – destruction is a pathology of over-concentrated, under-accountable power. And few instruments are more potent than the shaping of language and knowledge. So, for decades, green understandings and innovations were ridiculed, misrepresented and excluded by worldwide political, business and scientific establishments. Yet now, these mainstream voices compete to sound the "greenest". Hence Montgomery's desperation!Of course – with inequalities growing, war rampant, resources depleting, pollution increasing, climate disrupting and nuclear weapons and energy indefensibly entrenched – iconic green motivations remain unresolved. But among the greatest green achievements is that once-marginal aspirations are now deeply and explicitly embedded at the loftiest levels of international governance. Much of this offers little more than a "civilising effect of hypocrisy" (pdf). But the triad of values framing the seminal 1987 UN Brundtland Report do mark a watershed: "human wellbeing", "social equity" and "environmental integrity" are the means to hold "progress" to account.This green achievement is surprisingly under-appreciated. Far from contending with science, it enriches Enlightenment traditions (pdf). "Human progress" is not some mystically optimal outcome of incumbent interests – a hardwired, single-track "race to the future" possessing only pace and scale. Progress also has the property of direction. This is what the post-Brundtland panoply of international treaties and organisations are really about: guiding better directions for knowledge and innovation. Questions transcend merely: "how efficient?" or "how fast?" (pdf). Instead, an invigoratingly open landscape for social choice demands: "which way?"; "who says?"; "why?". Sustainability and fairness escape the shackles of "trickle down" from some single trajectory of advance. Markets compel attention as servants not masters. As argued in a recent manifesto, what green politics shows to be at stake, is not the speed, but the directions for progress.Yet, as Montgomery reminds us, the backlash remains very powerful. Green ambitions to open up different pathways are suppressed by cynical "sound science", "pro innovation" mantras defending the supposed inevitability of the status quo. This undermines the sceptical qualities of science, risking reduction to instrumental dogma. So were nascent technologies like wind energy, ecological farming and green chemistry nearly snuffed out – had they not been nurtured by social movements. Equally now, reductive intellectual property driven obsessions with transgenics impede scientific appreciations of natural complexity. The immense inertia of established infrastructures curtails not only choice, but even language and knowledge of alternatives.Yet, amid these pressing adversities, it is ironic that it is a form of "green" message that now most threatens newly possible democracies of progress. Examples include some ill-considered polemics by environmental NGOs. Cries like "five years to save the planet" (pdf) may (if lucky) be forgotten before they're refuted. But there builds an invisible effect in political culture. It plays into the hands of precisely the powerful forces of closure so long and effectively challenged by the greens. Incumbent government, business and academic interests can reassert old excluding habits – taking advantage of rejuvenated technocratic values, uncertainty denial and intolerance for dissent.Recent high-profile (ostensibly "Green") pronouncements illustrate this. From early empowering hopes around positive visions, the emphasis moves to disabling fears – of "non-negotiable" imminent "catastrophe". Where greens once overturned the spurious certainties of polluting industries, some elite environmentalism now proclaims "absolutely no uncertainty", brooking "no compromise". And rather than highlighting scope for deliberate social choice, emerging agendas of coercion assert immutable "planetary boundaries" allowing "no alternatives". Even more striking, is the suspension of critical faculties concerning human "control". Successive disasters (presciently anticipated by 'Greens'), revealed the false expediency of claims fully to 'control' even the most particular of technological systems. Yet now we find our entire era renamed "the Anthropocene" – as if human impact is the same as "dominating control". Communitarian humility is replaced by self-deceiving hubris – aiming at "managing the control variables" of the Earth itself. Few paths could be less "Green".So, are "the Greens" finished? Of course not! The grounding is too strong in rumbustious global civil society. But some of the greatest threats to truly green futures lie uncomfortably close to home. These do not arise in the necessities of the many dances with authority. Nor is there any need to qualify the stark imperatives. Greens are "finished" only if they forget the subaltern insights of their roots. As knowledge can be power, so power tries to shape knowledge – including green knowledge. And few oppressions are more forceful than closure of imaginations. So, for all their seductive appeal; concentrated power, expert certainty and fallacies of control remain the oldest enemies. Despite pressing constraints, the great strength of green politics lies in its critical pluralism. This means hope-inspired democratic choice, not fear-driven technical compliance.This post is part of a series on science and the green movement following debate at this year's Science in Public conference.Andy Stirling is professor of science and technology policy at the University of Sussex. 