For almost 18 months, up until April, I wrote a column in Family about my midlife online dating disasters, an experience that ended in triumph when I found Edward on a website as I was deleting myself from it. Now we live together, I’ve been thinking about how different cohabiting is the second time round. Edward and I had been in long marriages before living alone, and shacking up has presented unforeseen hazards and lessons. Here are 13 things I have learned.1 Shopping, cooking, entertainments and housework are subjects full of unexpected traps. Ordinary things you’ve done with someone else for 20 years (and then in a self-determining way for another two) are abruptly sources of controversy. Suddenly there’s a man on the next sofa cushion who is, in a word, alien. He can’t miss an episode of Robot Wars, doesn’t like Almodóvar and finds televised motor racing relaxing. These aren’t bad things in themselves – taste is taste – but they have to be acclimatised to. This alien in your bed, this Mork: he’s the man who buys the cheap pizzas, not really seeing the difference; he’s revealed as a natural Frugal, while you’re a natural Lavish. When you’re away he buys a pouch of filled pasta, eats half and keeps the rest for the following day. He suggests that the cooked soggy broccoli he put in the fridge in a bowl be “used up” in the mac cheese.2 Unexpectedly, kitchens can be flashpoints. You come into a midlife shack-up with ingrained domestic habits. I overstock the dry goods cupboard, perhaps subconsciously convinced that Armageddon will come without warning. Having nine kinds of pasta and every spice known to botany makes me feel safe. Edward limits himself to heavy sighs when he opens the doors and there’s a cous-cous avalanche. He doesn’t get that the shelves in the fridge are hierarchical. Cream goes on the top shelf with the cheese, right? It never goes on the bottom shelf with the meat, ever. I have declared there is no cream and he’s gone and produced it from behind some pork loins and I have been bulgy eyed with critique. He doesn’t rinse and squeeze the sponge when he’s mopped the worktop and this insignificant thing has brought us the closest we’ve come to a blazing row. The thing they never tell you about living with someone is that the worst arguments you’ll ever have (barring bankruptcy, adultery, pranged cars and other such trivia) will start with a kitchen sponge.3 Learn how the other operates when you disagree. We’re starting to take account of that, which is a skill it has taken me all my life to learn. I used to rush in, during my marriage, and escalate and make generalised accusations and self-sabotage. I’m getting better at taking a breath and listening. A recent incident ended with me saying calmly, “You’re getting on my nerves,” and him saying, “Sometimes you get on mine,” and me saying, “Sometimes I’m bloody annoying when I’m right,” and him saying, “Sometimes, yes, you are, but not often. Hardly ever.”We kissed and that was that. This talk-down technique has worked in both directions. Sex-wise, you need to find your real pattern, which might not tally with the one you had when you were dating 4 Resist the urge to be Veruca (or Vernon) Salt about getting things your own way, but be prepared for some saltiness: when two busy traffic streams converge, there’s always an adjustment period. Sometimes the other person will secretly be grateful that you’re a control freak because they don’t want the job of rummaging through every antique pair of curtains on eBay looking for The One. They’ve had enough of looking for The One. It’s vital for both of you to sharpen your awareness of when taking the initiative is necessary and wanted. And when it isn’t.5 Tolerance is hugely important. I’ve become almost cool about Edward’s need to watch golf on TV. He is tolerant of my need to research everything to the nth, including holiday locations (he favours a lucky dip approach). While investigating the possibility of buying a teeny European bolthole for our old age, I announced that I’d found a great village by a Spanish lake, but then discounted it because the lake was a reservoir and I once had a dream in which big sucky pipes under the surface of one sucked me right in and away, and Edward sat nodding sagely before saying, “No reservoirs, then. Noted.”Mutual resilience about the other’s quirks is a key signifier of contentment, and contentment is the state to aim for. Contentment’s relaxed and everyday and sustainable. Happiness is often too uppy a state to last and the inevitable downy can easily be misinterpreted as a catastrophe, whereas contentment ambles along in the inter-zonal.6 Sex-wise, you need to find your real pattern, which might not tally with the one you had when you were dating. For us, there are a) periods of intense activity – OK, not usually that intense – interspersed with b), sibling snuggling-up like the babes in the wood. Occasionally one of us is in A mode while the other is definitely in B. This happened the other night. “Why are you jiggling?” I asked. “What’s that fidgetiness mean?” “I’m frisky. It means I’m frisky.” “Oh God, no. Go to sleep. I’m so tired.” He started rubbing the small of my back. “Hey,” I said. “You there. You try to whisk my PJ trousers off and I’ll thump you in the Adam’s apple.”It’s lucky for me that he thinks I’m funny, and that he can make me howl with laughter. Nothing is as underrated by the young as the necessity of that.7 Incompatible circadian rhythms might unexpectedly be a thing. Edward is a lark and I used to be a night owl but, like nuns in a convent whose menstrual cycles get into sync, I’m gravitating into lark mode and have started to see a midnight bedtime as daringly late. We’re often ensconced with books and the teapot by 10pm, like picture book pre-digital-age midlifers, like Raymond Briggs’ Jim and Hilda. “I’m glad I have you,” I say sometimes, when we’ve kissed our goodnights. I mean it most fervently. We confess our failings to one another and find them amusing. An inability to admit them is even funnier 8 If you are ready to embrace the cardigan, be sure not to move in with a snowboarder. Our holidays are growing steadily more middle aged; we’re probably only a biscuit’s width from coach trips to Germany so as to cruise along the Rhine. With only ourselves to please, we can hit the Neolithic trail and dawdle round magnificent gardens, where Latin plant names have been noted on phones.9 Little ways of showing your love are a big deal. Edward was hugely supportive of my writing the book, even though it’s about the lead-up to him and then him specifically. He doesn’t want to read it but says he hopes others find it useful; it hasn’t much to do with who we are now. He smiles and shrugs, when he says so, and the love and trust really move me.He’ll say “You look nice,” if I make an effort, but he doesn’t care if there’s makeup or not, or what I weigh; he has no ghoulish notions about a woman being an asset on his arm. He’s getting wrinkly and greyer and his jawline isn’t what it was when we met and nor is mine and he doesn’t give a shit. He’s unselfconsciously self-accepting and that is inspiring.10 You should be able to relax completely and be yourself. We socialise a little bit, keep a sketchy track of culture, but essentially we’re home bodies. We hole up with hot chocolate and books and blankets and music and box sets and big socks. He falls asleep with a Robert Harris clutched to his chest and I feel a surge of fondness. We’ve been known to draw down the blinds on a Sunday morning and watch a thriller and eat ginger sponge pudding, though that’s about as transgressive as it gets.11 At some point while shacked up, the M word may arise. Marriage. Is it worth doing again, when really there’s no need? We’re good as we are. I have occasional hankerings, I admit, for “I do” (and how it would make my mother less anxious) and an incredible dress and rose petals thrown at my head. And for our coming old age. I never want to be in a situation in which he’s in hospital with a stroke and I am not next of kin, for some outmoded reason. Or vice versa.12 There ought to be a mutual plan for the next chapter. That’s part of the second chance romance: using the newness and freshness to have new and fresh ideas. We have an optimistic view of our 60s. Sixty is still some way off but it’s on the horizon, and if the span of life is marked off into quarters, 60-80 is probably going to be the final segment. As Jeff Bridges said recently, he thinks of retirement as re-tyrement, having new tyres fitted to life and going off in a new direction. It’s a weak pun but I know what he means. How you see your final quarter unfolding is a key point of compatibility, one you mightn’t have thought about when you were gaily (or not so gaily) wading through available matches on CloseToDespair.com.13 It’s important to trust enough to be saved from aspects of yourself. I have obsessive and perfectionist tendencies, so three trips to paint stockists and 11 matchpots daubed on to squares of lining paper were needed to decide on the sitting room walls. A trip to a garden centre to get two pots to flank our door turned into four visits and nine pots, and six clematis plants and four geraniums and three rose bushes, and if Edward hadn’t pleaded for a cease-fire the war on the garden would never have ended. I was happy to admit to this. We confess our failings to one another and find them amusing. An inability to admit to them is even funnier, and that’s pretty key. Once the wall colours were agreed upon we spent a happy week with paint rollers, singing along to the radio, and it was a bit like being 28 again. The idea that we’re at the beginning, that things are fresh, unspoiled, rich with possibility – what better feeling could there be in your 50s than that?Read our extract from Stella Grey’s book, The HeartfixWhen I told my mum I was abandoning online dating and going out to find men in the city, she clapped her hands in rejoicing. She thought there was a qualitative difference, as if finding a man online would be like finding one on sale at Aldi. Real-world men were bound to be better quality, she thought. Generally, I spared her the sad litany of failures to instigate chat in bookshops and delicatessens and with men in parks, letting my dog meet their dog. I didn’t even know if I wanted to go back to that kind of happenstance. Online dating at its best sends you to meet-ups fully informed. I’d grown accustomed to the data sets. I’d grown used to self-descriptions, the likes and dislikes, the bucket lists and the all-round self-revealing that goes on in a properly filled-out profile page. Little is known about a stranger who asks you out while your terriers say hello to one another beside a shrubbery after five minutes of dog chat. You can’t really subject them to the standard questions. You can’t go barging in to their private lives, gung ho. So, are you married? Oh – single, really, that’s interesting, and what are you hoping for, from a relationship, something long term? When you’re used to the online way of doing things, accidental first meetings offer so little of people upfront, as facts. When you meet online it isn’t usually going to take until the third date to discover that someone is a Scientologist or a conspiracy theorist, or that he has nine children.I’d already tried singles-oriented real-world socialising, and I could only attempt it a second time if I pretended the first time hadn’t happened. I’d done the joining-societies thing; I’d become a gallery friend and had been to public lectures. Nothing doing. How can a conversation start in those circumstances that isn’t embarrassing or obvious?I’d already humiliated myself in wine shops, rushing in, sidling up to nice-looking men and talking to them about vins de pays. They’d bought their wine and gone home.I’d tried to initiate chat with men who stopped off in the railway station food hall at six o’clock, as they stood in front of the Meals for One section. I’d done this in an early phase, post-separation, when my mental health wasn’t the best. In my head I was someone else. I was 28 again. I could see her, the slender, striking, dark-haired girl, in the falsely reflecting mirror behind my eyes. At 28, I was flirted with on an ongoing basis, by men older and younger.At 28 you don’t see yourself at 50, thickened in the waist and loosening around the throat. It doesn’t occur to you that those same men who ogled you at the office, back then, would run a mile if they met you now, even though they’re all older than you.The Heartfix by Stella Grey is published by Harper Collins, £12.99. To order a copy for £10.65, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846