10 Cloverfield Lane review – monster 'sequel' is more Hitchcock than Xbox The roll-out of a new trailer has become a tiresome exercise. Ten-second teasers precede a 6o-second teaser, which is followed by a two-minute trailer, accompanied by another two-minute international trailer, and perhaps finished off with some TV spots and a final internet-only trailer. By the time the year-long masterclass in overhype is finished, not only do you feel as if every major plot detail has already been divulged, but you’re also sick of the film in question. Would anyone be excited if yet another Batman v Superman trailer was released this week? Perhaps it’s inevitable that movie marketing has become so overstuffed and overexplained. Audiences are bombarded with entertainment choices from more mediums than ever, and box office success can now be predicted by how many times trailers have been viewed and whether a film trended on social media.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Which is probably why so many weathered film fans were shocked and impressed in January when JJ Abrams released a trailer for 10 Cloverfield Lane. Before it premiered with prints of Michael Bay’s 13 Hours, no one knew the film existed – at least not in that incarnation. After chatter about a sequel to 2008’s equally secretive monster hit Cloverfield died down, Abrams, the film’s producer – and general master of all things mysterious – quietly announced the production of a film called The Cellar and then, just to confuse us, Valencia. It was met with little fanfare. Only when the trailer was revealed did audiences – and the industry – realise there was to be another film under the Cloverfield banner. It’s a deviously constructed and perfectly vague example of how a trailer should be made. As with the film itself, we know something sinister is taking place, but we don’t know exactly what it is. It’s the equivalent of a juicy click-bait headline: we have to click on the YouTube link to find out more. Rise of the reboots gives new life to Rocky and Ghostbusters It was also bravely launched a mere two months before the film hit cinemas, Abrams smartly realising that, if it had been released any earlier, a contemporary audience would be expecting more secrets to be revealed pre-release. Then last weekend, a $15m (£10.6m) budget film, shot mostly in one location by a first-time director with no major stars (Mary Elizabeth Winstead and John Goodman, as great as they are in the film, aren’t draws at the box office) that no one had heard of three months ago made just less than $25m amid widespread critical acclaim.It is a compelling case study, and one with no real precedent. Many assumed it would be a direct sequel to Cloverfield, but it’s been referred to as more of a “blood relative”. Abrams has cleverly manufactured a franchise of secretive sci-fi thrillers that exist under one mysterious word and provide an antithesis to the tired cycle of uninspired sequels that are trotted out every month. In these spoiler-heavy times, it’s remarkable to see the control he has over how his work is released. (There was even an auto-deleting script to ensure secrecy in the audition process.) And in a time when many directors are criticising the marketing of their films, it is refreshing to see a strong relationship between creative and commercial departments.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the original teaser for PsychoThe film owes a heavy debt to Hitchcock with its Psycho-ish setup (woman takes off from a difficult situation only to find herself in an even worse one), its deliciously lurid soundtrack and its seat-edge suspense scenes. But even the master himself wouldn’t have created a marketing campaign this spare. A common misconception about contemporary trailers is that they ruin the plots of films. But Hitchcock, though a commercially savvy salesman, was unafraid of spoiling the delicate secrets of his films. The original teaser trailer for Psycho is itself a six-minute spoiler of a film that works best when you’re kept in the dark.While the success of 10 Cloverfield Lane has caused much discussion, it’s unlikely to single-handedly lead to a new trend. Blockbusters that reveal their cards early and in full are still making a healthy buck, and not all genres require the same level of surprise as the thriller does. However, coupled with Abrams’ slow and steady release of Star Wars: The Force Awakens materials, which has made $2bn at the global box office, it does cement his status as the industry’s ideal figure: one that can create but also sell with equal skill.One thing that the film’s low-budget success will definitely lead to is yet more Cloverfields. Abrams and director Dan Trachtenberg have discussed the potential for sequels, and the ending certainly hints at more to come. But after “breaking the template” this time around, can it be done again? And after all, would a surprise Cloverfield semi-sequel really be a surprise next time?