Spoiler alert: this blog is for people watching series one of Follow the Money. Don’t read on unless you’ve seen episodes three and four. Hold on to your calculators and join me as we try and decode who has sold what to whom fraudulently; which failing company has what deficit; which rotten apple in the government has promised subsidies to whom; and what superconductor project (based on as-of-yet unproven science) Sander is trying to sell to which Emirati big bucks.This series might be about the slow burn in terms of winning my affections, but it certainly isn’t when it comes to the action – it crams a heck of a lot into each episode. In this week’s double bill there was a trip to Abu Dhabi and the nearby sand-and-glass city of Masdar; a mother-son road trip to Jutland (ah, that old chestnut) to close a family business, and Mads continuing to tussle with the frustrations of fighting crimes done on paper and in boardrooms rather than with fists and firearms. Oh, and Bimse and Nicky got into more scrapes than Kevin and Perry on a week in Ibiza.Emotionally, too, this lot don’t hang about. We saw Mads having a full-blown breakdown in the arms of Alf (I’m not sure I’d take it quite so well if a colleague I’d known for a week called me in the middle of the night, tanked up and in need of a lift) and Ulrik punching his hand through a glass door then having a heaving cry in his boss’s office.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Breakdown … Thomas Bo Larsen as Mads Justesen Photograph: BBC/DRMads is definitely a grower. He’s still pretty irritating, but in the way an old friend might be – you’ve developed a fond affection for their foibles, but make sure your fikas with them are only occasional. He flips out when a cup-holder breaks, chucks stuff around the office when Prebens (having negotiated him time off to “get his shit together”) questions why he’s been working for another department, and has no humility when working in an area of the law he knows nothing about – much to colleague Henrietta’s annoyance.But he has more than his share of sweet moments this week, too. For instance, when his wife Kristina was feeling better and his first suggestion was, “Shall we go to the garden centre to buy rhododendrons?” And whereas last week he forgot to pick one of the kids up from their swimming lesson, this week he left Energreen HQ mid-job to dash to the post office and collect his wife’s new walking stick. Let’s be honest, though, he’s not having the best time of it. The scene where it transpires that Kristina is having an affair with her doctor is pretty crushing. She has initially hidden behind the excuse of going out with the girls, but Mads sees a text he thinks is on his daughter’s phone (and teases her about being missed by some young man called David), only to realise it’s his wife’s phone … yes, awkward. It’s a great scene, emotionally tense and electric – he bangs the lovely light, her lip trembles and Mads has a moment in the garden. (Though I did find his tucked-in T-shirt distracting – if it’s tucked into his jeans, is it also tucked into his tighty whities?)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A very meek mouse ... is Claudia (Natalie Madueño Wolfsberg) being played by Sander? Photograph: BBC/DRNicky’s not having a good time of it either. Constantly fighting Bimse’s fires, beaten up by his father-in-law and most likely blackmailed into more car-stealing. But then he does advertise he’s “fast and furious” with that tattoo we saw peeping out this week. As a series it’s definitely picking up, though just as you feel you are settling into a pair of safe Scandi hands, a slice of incredibly hammy dialogue is served up. “We have to find the root of evil at Energreen,” says Mads at one point. Or take Sander, explaining why he had to send molecular scientist Hanne home for declaring that the project wasn’t yet ready: “There isn’t room for doubts. We need to be critical and ambitious … we may never doubt that we’ll succeed. If we do, then we have nothing left.” There’s also a fair bit of unsubtle symbolism that clogs up the screen – the sand slipping through hands in the desert, the ice Hanne uses to demonstrate her superconductor project. It’s all just a little bit obvious.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   What’s he up to? … Nikolaj Lie Kaas as Sander Sødergren Photograph: BBC/DRWhat else do we know so far?• Energreen CEO Sander gets more slippery by the second. He’s in Abu Dhabi – the twinkly lights of the city provide a great backdrop for dramatic chats about green energy and “the future” – to try and sell whatever he can to Mr Saif Al Wasem, a big cheese in green energy who owns the world’s first carbon-neutral city and has $2bn to invest in green energy this year. Let’s make it three, Sander joshes – it ends up at four. Sander is uninterested in whether the science behind the superconductor actually works – he fired Hanne for expressing her doubts about it, and overnight has found some cowboy British scientist to take her place and give the presentation to the potential investors, which he does with a flourish, like he’s Mr Majeika himself. Sander, it’s clear, is willing to bulldoze all obstacles for the sake of profit. • It’s all very murky, again, when he sends Claudia to negotiate the sale of Thullander, before it transpires that it’s unsellable. We get the feeling Sander knew this all along (perhaps he even made it so?) and was just playing, like a very fat cat with a very meek mouse.• A fortuitous encounter while Mads is out giving cyclists tickets for texting (demoted for the morning, back into uniform, by an angry Prebens) has him spot Energreen CFO Ulrik Skov with his Doberman. Doberman, he deduces, is the name he hadn’t quite been able to hear on the wiretap conversation between the two fired traders, Peter and Mark, where they say all their dealings were sanctioned by a “… man”. Bingo!• Alf and Mads do a lot of digging around Ulrik and, it turns out, he was CFO of a wind turbine company called Swan that went bankrupt just before it could be rescued. It was then bought for a not insignificant sum by a state-owned company called Danstrom (where the permanent secretary of the ministry of energy used to work as a consultant) – weird, to say it was such a “lousy company” – two months before the government announced subsidies for the industry. With me this far? (Am I even with me this far?) Then Sander’s friend, the permanent secretary, told him subsidies for wind energy would rise considerably, Sander became CEO of Energreen and soon hired Ulrik, book-cooker extraordinaire. Bottom line: Sanders and Ulrik are both total crooks. But now Ulrik’s cracking under the pressure. As Sanders says, “as long as we’re on the same side, nothing can go wrong”. But are they going to remain on the same side or is Ulrik about to get thrown under the proverbial bus?• Nice Nicky is having a tricky time keeping Bimse away from the cash. They hid it together, but then he moved it the next night – from the parties, the bikers and “the Serbs”, who can’t believe Nicky would be friends with such a dweeb, so must therefore be a partner in crime. The more cash Bimse flashes, goes Nicky’s sound logic, the more others will cotton on to something and come looking for it. That’s exactly what’s happening. Nicky’s father-in-law calling in his heavies in leather waistcoats to try and get Nicky out of this tight spot can only mean one thing: trouble.Thoughts and observations• I like the boss of the fraud squad – she’s not messing about, is she? More of her, please.• Can we expect Mia the journalist to crop up again? She seemed pretty peeved that Alf hadn’t been in touch for two months but then called to talk shop – “what a dickhead!”• I’m no scientist, but Hanne’s explanation of the superconductor, with its Meissner effect and magnetic flux, reminded me more than a little of Jeff Goldblum’s explanation of how to use the aliens’ technology against them in Independence Day.• What a cruel twist of fate that Mads got on Nicky’s tail because of something so innocent as him posting pictures of his baby’s face, covered in food, on Facebook.• I ended up feeling quite sorry for buffoonish Bimse and was glad, even though it was clear it spelled trouble, when Nicky invited him round. I just hope he lasts long enough for his mum to see his made-up face tomorrow.• Fingers crossed for more inappropriate snogging next week – that was fun. Claudia and Sanders wouldn’t last five minutes at the office Christmas party.