Have you ever been out with friends and your partner, and looked at that person and asked yourself: why can’t he/she be like that with me? Perhaps they are friendlier, more thoughtful, more animated, funnier. Or perhaps the opposite is true – your partner is reserved and quiet in social situations and garrulous behind your front door.But it is unrealistic to expect a person to be consistent – since a “relationship” is quite different from a relationship. A “relationship” – that social dynamic that develops between two adults living together as a couple whether involving children or not – involves a dynamic which is distinct from that which is employed during encounters with wider world.We like to think we are always ourselves – but we are not and neither is anybody else. We are, at least partially, a product of the people we are surrounded by at any given time. Some people animate you, others have the opposite effect – to suppress or close your personality down.Inside the confines of the couple relationship, these effects are multiplied and refracted. Its privacy, its everyday intimacy, its nakedness, its longevity, all give it a special quality, which can operate in a number of ways. Obviously, in simple mathematical terms, you spend far more time with your partner than with any other adult in the world. Even if you don’t – perhaps because you both have high-pressure jobs involving long hours – the kind of time you spend with them is very different to the kind of time you spend in other environments. The family home is not merely a theatre (albeit one with a very small audience); it may also be a crucible In the privacy of family relationships, certain forces – which are also to some extent at play in the larger world – become accentuated and concentrated. Your partner will, in the early years of your relationship, form a picture of you that will be difficult to dislodge once it has hardened into an attitude. This might be that you are mean/generous, lazy/workaholic, kind/callous – anything at all, really. Given that we have a lot of trouble accepting the fluidity of the human personality, we tend to create straitjackets quite quickly and once fitted it is hard for the straps and restraints to be unfastened. Any information that contradicts the original stereotyping will tend to be ignored or discounted.At the heart of the relationship, therefore, is an act of creation in the head of each of partner. This has a real world effect – that of partially creating the person that the observer/partner has imagined. Because once it is insisted you are a certain way, as any schoolteacher will tell you about their pupils, you may easily become convinced that it is pointless to try to behave in any other way. Thus we create our own monsters – or heroes, if it suits us to idealise those we are with.After the battle to define or be defined has been fought and won or lost (a process that usually takes place most intensely in the early years of a relationship) a new version of the person can emerge – the “relationship identity” which may be quite different from a previous or accustomed self.A “relationship”, therefore, is a mirror, but a very strange mirror. It may reflect you accurately, if such a thing is possible. Or it may distort you – magnify or diminish you, darken you or lighten you, depending on the force and inclinations of the person you share it with, and also the resilience of your own ego and powers of self-definition (as anyone following the travails of Rob and Helen in The Archers will know).It may be true may that some people are most themselves when they are behind family walls. For others, it may be that their selves have been largely created and forged within those walls. The family home is not merely a theatre, albeit one with a very small audience – it may also be a crucible, where personalities are melted and reforged – for good or ill.• Tim Lott offers one-to-one mentoring for writers through Guardian Masterclasses. To find out more, click here.@timlottwriter