In truth, we barely use the pram any more. He doesn’t need it. The boy can walk now. More than that, he pelts around everywhere, arms outstretched behind him like a little cape, bottom tick-tocking wildly from side to side. It’s really something to see.This will be the final Man with a Pram column. As these columns were all essentially written for my baby in the first place, it only seems fitting that I should directly address the last one to him:Dear son,Every week for just over a year, I’ve taken each of these columns and diligently filed them away in a box with your name on it so that, one day when you are older, you can look back and see what your arrival meant to us.I’ve had a few regrets since you were born. I regret the time I accidentally left that full nappy bag next to a warm radiator, for instance. I also regret not bothering to learn any nursery rhymes, which explains why I’ve spent a full year purely singing Jingle Bells to you.But this column has not been one of those regrets. Parenting, when you’re new to it, can be just as lonely as it is terrifying. And by writing my experiences down, and hearing from people in return – in comments, on Instagram and in person – I’ve come to realise that everybody feels like this sometimes. These people have helped me more than they could possibly know. Realising that I haven’t been alone has been one of the great salves of this last year.You might not understand what this means yet, but you were nothing when I first wrote about you. You were just an idea, a weird little abstract that your mother and I inexplicably pinned all our love to. Now you’re here and you’ve already exceeded our greatest hopes. Everything you do breaks my heart. Your yelp of delight whenever you encounter anything new. How hard you grab my finger when we’re walking together. The way you put your entire fingers in your mouth when you eat blueberries. I could sit and watch you all day. Sometimes I do.You’ve probably noticed that I didn’t shy away from mentioning what hard work you are. This is true – I’ve aged about 20 years in the past 14 months – but I promise it was never meant as a slight. Nothing truly good in life ever comes easily, I’ve learned, and you’re the best thing we’ve got. There is nothing in the entire world I’d trade you for.I’m so proud of you and who you’re turning into. You’re kind and thoughtful, and you greet everything with a happy curiosity. We’ve got a long road ahead of us, with so many stories yet to tell, but if you can somehow keep these qualities intact, I won’t ever need to worry about you.I don’t know how old you’ll be when you read this, but I hope by now you’ve got used to the world and how cruel it can sometimes seem. I know it often feels as if everything good in your life – things you like, work you enjoy, people you love – will get taken away when you least want it to. But that’s normal. Change is part of life, but it isn’t always bad. Yes, it’s scary. Yes, it can hurt sometimes. But change leaves a gap, and a gap is always an opportunity for adventure. So thanks for reading, son, but it’s time to close the box. Let’s find a new adventure. I love you, Herbie.Dad@stuheritage