People often complained about being trapped in poverty. Or trapped in the wrong body. Or trapped behind enemy lines. Or trapped in the wrong job. But all these instances of being trapped by something, either literally or metaphorically, pale in comparison to the worst kind of entrapment, which is being trapped in wealth. Most people are fortunate enough to never experience such a thing, they can live their lives how they like, being able to make decisions such as “Should I use what little money I have to buy food or heating?” Imagine being able to make such important decisions, and on a regular basis! Some people can only dream of the freedom of taking your life in your hands whenever you open your wallet. These people are trapped in wealth. Pity them.The Guardian view on David Cameron: the warping ways of wealth | Editorial David Cameron is such a person. As a result of him going through a difficult time recently, due to his tax affairs, Cameron has been defended by Charles Moore in the Telegraph, who points out that the prime minister is one of the unlucky few to be “trapped in wealth”. Cameron deserves sympathy, not criticism. Being trapped in wealth is no laughing matter, as it present many real and serious issues and consequences. Loss of empathyBeing trapped in wealth can cause a serious loss of empathy, in both directions. As soon as it was pointed out that Cameron was trapped in wealth, it resulted in an onslaught of scorn on Twitter from hundreds/thousands of people lucky enough to be free of the curse of having no wealth worries. But thanks to the workings of our brains, we find it very hard to empathise with someone whose situation is radically different to our own. So if we have ample wealth (and have always had it), we struggle to relate to the issues experienced by someone who barely has any money. And vice versa. As a result, those with ample wealth would struggle to relate or sympathise with impoverished people. It’s just how the brain seems to work. It’s OK though, as long as the wealthy are not put in charge of running countries with large numbers of people in poverty this shouldn’t have any serious consequences. In defence of Charles Moore and his original piece, he does make this very point himself regarding David Cameron.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Consider the horror of having only one yacht, or an outdated model. Photograph: Gavin Rodgers/Rex/ShutterstockPsychological impactHumans are motivated to do many things for many reasons and these often rely on obtaining some goal, whatever it may be. But what if you’re born into wealth, so much so that anything you want can be just bought without a second thought? As well as being “spoiled”, with all the negative impacts that has on a person, the brain gets used to anything, given enough time. So if you don’t feel any involvement or effort in getting what you want, then soon it will stop providing any stimulation, which also has unpleasant psychological effects. Being trapped by wealth can mean you end up with stunted ability to form relationships, empathise or be excited by things. This can manifest in weird ways, such as …The questions David Cameron still faces over his tax affairs Status and competitive urgesWhen you’re wealthy, you tend to socialise with people in similar situations. Like attracts like and so forth. This is why you seldom see a billionaire in a Wetherspoons. However, when you’re part of a group, you also have a fundamental urge to be liked/respected by that group, and if your common interest is “having lots of money” the best way to achieve respect and admiration is to have “the most” money. This presents a problem. Just like how there must be one “most important” news story, technically only one person can have “the most” money. When there are set goals and only limited resources to achieve them, people get competitive. There’s only so much money in the world and you need as much as possible if you want to be the richest person (which you probably will, being trapped by wealth). Given the complexity of tax law and economics in general, it’s clearly a smokescreen for the real means by which rich people get richer. Deadly duels! The most obvious answer is that millionaires and billionaires regularly fight to the death in winner-takes-all deadly combat. This explains why there are fewer than 2,000 billionaires in the world, and they tend to be an “unethical” lot. Clearly, being trapped in wealth results in a merciless Darwinian selection process that favours those who value human life the least. And what kind of existence is that? Being stabbed with a gold-plated, emerald-encrusted spear it doesn’t make you any less dead.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Imagine having so much wealth you feel compelled to gold-plate your toilet. Giving it away is unthinkable, but defecating on it is fine. Imagine what it takes to get into that state of mind. Sounds awful. Photograph: Paul Hilton/EPAHealth hazardsBeing trapped by wealth has many health hazards too. Say you’ve bought many valuable antiques, but you end up with respiratory problems caused by excess dust. Or maybe you’ve bought countless gold items, but so much so that the metal leaches into your skin and poisons you, or you’re simply crushed under the weight of your jewellery. Or maybe you want to fill a pit with gold coins and swim in it like Scrooge McDuck, only to gravely injure yourself when you dive in. Being trapped by wealth can even have serious health consequences in an indirect manner. For example, if you complain about being trapped by wealth to a shelf stacker who’s just worked 50 hours in four days just to be able to pay their rent, they may be suddenly overcome with an urge to do unspeakable violence. So remember, being trapped by wealth is a very serious business. You can’t even do a fundraiser for those afflicted, as it just makes things worse. Dean Burnett is aware that this article is ridiculous, but feel free to point it out to him on Twitter nonetheless. @garwboyThe Idiot Brain by Dean Burnett (Guardian Faber, £12.99). To order a copy for £7.99, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.