Wolf-whistling has been reclassified as a crime! Thousands of innocent, well-meaning men might find themselves clapped in jail for trying to give a woman a compliment! It’s political correctness gone mad!Or at least, that’s what you might be forgiven for thinking after a cursory glance at some headlines this week.In reality, the law hasn’t changed at all. One police force (Nottinghamshire) has expanded its definition of hate crime to include misogyny and harassment of women. This simply means that they will log and monitor such incidents, enabling them to build up a picture of the problem, support victims, and become aware of particular problem hotspots.The definition of a hate crime is one motivated by hostility or prejudice towards any aspect of a person’s identity. In terms of the incidents that police forces in England and Wales already monitor annually, such aspects include disability, gender identity, race, ethnicity or nationality, religion, faith or belief and sexual orientation. Is it really so shocking for sex to be included in that list?Nottinghamshire police made it clear that this was not a sudden change in the law, and did not mean that behaviour such as wolf-whistling would be recategorised as a criminal offence, stating: “A hate crime is simply any incident, which may or may not be deemed as a criminal offence, which is perceived by the victim or any other person, as being motivated by prejudice or hatred.”The spokesperson added: “This doesn’t necessarily mean that a criminal offence has been committed, but means we will carry out risk assessments and offer support as we would to any victim of a hate crime.”The types of behaviour the initiative will focus on include uninvited physical contact such as “groping”, verbal abuse and harassment, and taking photographs without consent. These behaviours, which often happen in combination, or escalate into more serious abuses when a victim tries to ignore or reject them, have a real impact on women’s lives and freedoms.While the media have seized on the specific issue of wolf-whistling, to the point of suggesting that it is particularly highlighted by the initiative, it wasn’t even mentioned in initial news reports and is not a major point of focus for the women’s organisation that spearheaded this collaboration with local police. In fact, this seems to be a deliberate attempt to belittle the problem and ridicule action taken to tackle it.Melanie Jeffs, centre manager at Nottingham Women’s Centre, told me: “It’s a real shame that the serious impact this has on women is being completely ignored and boiled down to something trivial. It is an attempt to turn it back on to the victim and suggest she has an attitude problem. When actually what women are saying to us is, ‘This is affecting our ability to go out and live our lives’.”One woman told Jeffs: “My local corner shop shuts at 9pm. But for me it shuts at 6pm, because that’s the time I stop going out at night.” For Jeffs, it’s not about wolf-whistling: it’s about restrictions on living.As founder of the Everyday Sexism Project  I have spoken to hundreds of women and girls whose lives are affected on a daily basis by verbal and physical harassment in public spaces in exactly the way Jeffs describes. A woman being followed home by a man aggressively sexually propositioning her and refusing to take no for an answer; a 14-year-old girl being shouted at by men making lewd gestures as she walks to school in her uniform; a pregnant woman being groped on the bus; a runner being made to feel so unsafe by repeated verbal harassment that she simply gives up exercising outside.Yes, wolf-whistles are the thin end of this wedge – the “harmless” reminder that a woman’s role in public is to be judged and commented on by men. But the whole picture is much bigger than that. The toleration of minor sexist incidents sets up a power imbalance, leading to normalised attitudes and behaviours towards women that make some of the more serious abuses seem more socially acceptable.Of course the entitlement some men feel to shout at, threaten, follow, make sexually explicit comments to or touch women they don’t know in the street is motivated by prejudice.It stems from the idea that women’s bodies in public places are there for male use and enjoyment. It is connected to the default setting throughout our society that treats man as the norm and woman as the other. But because we are so used to it, objection is cast as hysterical overreaction. The very normalisation of street harassment protects it from being challenged.Thanks to one police force listening to local women’s organisations, women and girls in Nottingham will receive the message that this kind of behaviour isn’t normal or acceptable, that support is available, and that the problem will be taken seriously. If only we could get the rest of the country to follow that lead.