I – or more specifically, my almost-three-year-old – was really looking forward to this week’s swap: it’s a theme that demanded, demanded, a party! And party we did. Subsequently, I have three things to tell you.First, kids don’t need to drown in sugar to have fun. It’s a party – they’re spinning with excitement, they’re hungry; they will eat. So give them food that’s fun, but that will feed them too: some sweet things, some vegetable things (alongside all of this, I had a tray of roast broccoli and a huge bowl of blueberries – both disappeared before anything else did), something to drink and lots of the coconut popcorn below.Second, no matter how worried you are that you’ve not made enough for your many tiny guests, it will be too much, so don’t worry. And third, don’t worry. Don’t worry about impressing other parents or hiring fancy venues, buying expensive goodie bags or hiring projectors. All you need is a park, this picnic and a smile on your face.The winning recipe: Butternut cheese strawsMandy Mazliah AKA @sneakyvegblog is a dab hand at making vegetables shine for little people, and these straws exemplify how she does it. Simple, delicious and perfectly portable, they’re a snack that makes eating less of a chore and more playtime sustenance. Which is what food at parties should be all about.Makes around 101 x 320g puff pastry sheet100g steamed or roasted butternut squash, pureed100g cheddar cheese, grated1 Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/gas mark 6. Unroll the pastry sheet. Spread the butternut squash evenly over the top, then sprinkle ⅔ of the cheese over.2 Fold in half and press the edges shut. Gently roll out the pastry until it’s the same size you had originally.3 Cut into 1cm wide strips, twist a few times and put on a nonstick baking tray. Cover with the remaining cheese. Bake for 15-18 minutes, or until golden.4 Best served while still a little warm from the oven, but fine the next day too if stored in an airtight container.Raspberry vanilla biscuitsBryony Bowie’s are all pretty, flecked with pink – to be decorated with sugar balls, hundreds and thousands, or whatever else grabs your kids’ fancy.Makes 18-20175g plain flour75g light muscovado sugar100g butter75g fresh raspberries1 tsp vanilla extract1-2 tbsp cold water100g icing sugar1 Set the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4 and grease or line a large baking tray. Mix together the flour and sugar, and rub in the butter until your mixture resembles breadcrumbs.2 Stir in the raspberries and vanilla. Add just enough water to bind your mixture into a dough.3 Turn out the mixture on to a lightly floured surface, and roll it out to about 3mm thick. Cut out shapes and transfer them to the prepared baking tray.4 Bake for 20 minutes – they should still be slightly soft, as they’ll harden as they cool. Transfer to a wire rack until completely cool.5 Mix the icing sugar with enough water for icing that’s thick enough to spread on your biscuits. Top with the decorations of your choice.Gold date ballsFor the gluten-free among your young guests: Justine Wall’s bling balls are chewy and wholesome and they keep for up to 2 weeks. You can substitute the gold dust (available in supermarket baking aisles) with desiccated coconut, seeds, cocoa powder or cacao nibs.Makes about 2050g pecans50g almonds150g pitted dates10g cocoa½ tsp vanilla paste½ tbsp coconut oilGold dust, to decorate1 Pulse the nuts in a high-speed blender or food processor until finely chopped.2 Add the dates, cocoa, vanilla paste and coconut oil and pulse again until the mixture starts to clump.3 Roll the mixture into little balls and coat with the gold powder.Banana and blueberry loafNicola Keys has come up with the baked equivalent of “well, duh!”: of course bananas and blueberries – every baby I know’s favourite foods – were going to make something awesome!Makes 1 large loaf2 very ripe bananas 140g butter 140g caster sugar 2 eggs 140g flour, sifted 3½ tsp baking powder100g blueberries A handful of rolled oats1 Set the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4 and grease a nonstick 2lb/1kg loaf tin. Mash your bananas in a bowl with a metal spoon or fork and set aside.2 In a mixing bowl, cream the butter and sugar together until light and fluffy, then add the eggs and continue to mix until combined.3 Gently fold the sifted flour, baking powder and mashed bananas into the egg/sugar/butter mixture. Add your blueberries and give your mixture one last gentle stir (just so the blueberries have mixed in).4 Pour your mixture into the loaf tin and sprinkle the top with rolled oats. Bake in the oven for around 30-40 minutes, checking regularly until a knife comes out clean.5 Remove from the oven and leave to cool a little in the tin, before upturning on to a wire rack.Twisted pigsMarmite and honey, in homemade sausage rolls: Rachel Kelly, what a find!Makes 30 5 tbsp runny honey1 tbsp mixed spice or a dollop of Marmite (to taste)1 x 500g puff pastry block32 chipolata sausages 1 egg, beaten with a splash of milk1 Preheat the oven to 220C/425F/gas mark 7. Gently melt the honey in a small saucepan. Stir in the spice or Marmite and heat slowly for a few minutes until well combined.2 Roll out the puff pastry on a clean, lightly floured surface. Cut the pastry into 15 long strips, then cut those in half, and lightly brush with the spiced honey.3 Place a chipolata at the bottom of each half strip and wind the pastry up the sausage, twisting as you go.4 Put the twisted pigs on a lightly greased baking sheet and brush with egg wash. Bake for 15 minutes, or until a lightly golden. Serve warm or cold.Coconut and cinnamon popcornAnna Thomson says her kids, surprisingly, prefer this flavour of popcorn, even though it contains no sugar – and the kids at our party clearly agreed. It’s all down to the coconut oil which, as it cools, hardens into tiny flecks of cool sweetness. Makes 1 big bowlful3 tbsp coconut oil50g popcorn kernels½ tsp ground cinnamonA pinch of salt1 Melt the coconut oil in a large, heavy-bottomed pan. Add the popcorn kernels and shake the pan to coat with the oil. Put a lid on the pan; turn the heat to high. Once the corn starts popping, turn down the heat and give the pan an occasional shake.2 Once the popping subsides, sprinkle with cinnamon and salt. Mix and serve.Whipped feta cream puffsMary Jones, these sit perfectly inside little palms and they feel so much more celebratory than a cream-cheese sarnie.Makes 18-20For the puffs240ml boiling water110g butter150g flour4 eggs For the filling160g feta300g cream cheese10g chives, finely chopped1 Preheat your oven to 190C/375F/gas mark 5. Boil the water in a double boiler or enamel pan. Add the butter and stir until melted. Add the flour and stir vigorously until the mixture forms a ball in the centre of the pan and does not stick to the sides.2 Remove from the heat. Add the eggs one by one, beating well after each addition. The mixture should be stiff.3 Using a spoon, dab walnut-size balls of the dough on a greased baking tray, and bake for 40-45 minutes, then cool on wire rack.4 Whip the feta and cream cheese together in a mixing bowl, then stir in the chopped chives. Fill the cooled puffs with the mixture (about 2 heaped tsp per puff).AmerikanerJasmin Devonport’s childhood treat when on an outing with her grandfather has quickly become my child’s anytime treat when on a stool in my kitchen. Two different contrasting icing colours means this is fun to make at a party!Makes about 10For the dough100g butter 75g sugar10g vanilla sugar2 eggs325g plain flour2 tsp baking powderA pinch of salt4 tbsp milk, if needed For the lemon icing1 tbsp lemon juice75g icing sugar For the chocolate icing75g melted chocolate1 Preheat the oven to 220C/425F/gas mark 7. Beat the butter until smooth, then mix in both sugars. Stir in the eggs, one at a time, until the mix reaches a creamy/frothy texture. Mix the flour and baking powder together, then combine this with the egg mixture. The dough should be firm enough to shape, but if it is too stiff, loosen it with up to 4 tbsp of milk.2 Line a baking tray with baking paper. Spoon or pipe 10 portions of the mix on to the tray, each roughly 5cm in diameter. Use a wet spoon to shape them into circular mounds. Bake for 10-12 minutes, or until just cooked. Remove and cool on a wire rack.3 Melt the chocolate in an ovenproof bowl in the still warm oven. Meanwhile, mix the lemon juice and icing sugar into a slightly thick paste.4 When the Amerikaner are still slightly warm, turn them over to expose the flat base. Brush either the lemon icing or chocolate on the flat side, or an arty combination of the two, then set aside to dry before serving.Chocolate cakeI’m still on the lookout for my go-to chocolate cake, so I was excited to try René De Beer’s. A moist, flavoursome crumb you just know will work with whichever buttercream, jam filling or impossibly complicated icing extravaganza your little one requests.Makes 1 large sandwich cake60g cocoa250ml boiling water6 eggs400g light brown sugar120ml oil2 tsp vanilla essence250g flour1 tbsp baking powder1 tsp salt1 Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4. Mix the cocoa into the water, and set aside to cool. Meanwhile, grease and flour two cake tins.2 In a large mixing bowl, beat the eggs with the sugar until light and frothy. Add the oil and vanilla essence and beat again until light and frothy.3 Add the cooled cocoa water and stir well.4 In another bowl, sift the flour, and mix in the baking powder and salt.5 Add the dry ingredients to the wet ingredients and stir lightly until just combined. Pour into the two greased and floured cake tins and bake for about 45 minutes.6 Remove the cakes from the oven and turn out to cool on wire racks.7 When cool, sandwich the two cakes with the filling of your choice: salted caramel buttercream, chocolate ganache, cherry jam, whipped cream …