Until recently Jane Austen has been Bath’s most bankable literary connection, with fans flocking to the elegant Georgian town to channel Pride and Prejudice. But these days a romance written by another bankable female author is boosting the town’s coffers. EL James’s bestselling Fifty Shades trilogy is being credited with a sexual awakening that has put sales at Bath-based online sex toy retailer Lovehoney onto another plane.Last year the website’s sales jumped almost 30%, boosted by a range tied to the first Fifty Shades film that encouraged increasingly adventurous Britons to create their own mise en scène with props ranging from silky wrist restraints to adjustable nipple clamps, inspired by the steamy antics of Christian Grey and Anastasia Steele. Analysts are predicting another sales bonanza for Lovehoney and rivals such as Ann Summers this year thanks to the sequel’s arrival in cinemas in time for Valentine’s Day.‘She’s a very nice lady,” says Lovehoney co-founder Richard Longhurst of a shrewd licensing deal struck with the author that drew customers around the world to the site for the first time. “She’s got her head screwed on and is nice with it.”Lovehoney is an unlikely success story. Co-founders Longhurst and Neal Slateford chipped in £4,500 each to get the business off the ground in 2002, with orders initially despatched from Longhurst’s bedroom.Superficially, the friends are not typical entrepreneurs. Slateford was once half of DNA – the dance music producers best known for their remix of Suzanne Vega’s Tom’s Diner in 1990 – while Longhurst was a tech journalist. They met in 1996 when Longhurst was editing an internet magazine, and he interviewed Slateford about (in his words) the “nerdy website for computer musicians” he was setting up. Slateford’s startup cash came from a redundancy cheque from the publisher he was working for when the dotcom bubble burst.From the outset they sought to normalise a market that suffers from an association with dingy shops and blacked-out windows, and were keen to appeal to female shoppers.“I think one of the reasons why Lovehoney has been successful is that sex-toy retailing, particularly in the US, grew out of the pornography industry,” says Longhurst. “We came into the industry as internet people.”That is clear from the poky office they share. The decor is more The IT Crowd than Peter Stringfellow, and the desk is littered with objects that could be industry awards or novelty sex aids. The effect is completed by a blow-up Donald Trump doll complete with Make America Great Again cap.Slateford sees clear blue water between itself and rivals such as Ann Summers, which has a bigger turnover – sales exceeded £100m in 2015 according to the most recent accounts filed at Companies House – but is less profitable. “The Ann Summers proposition is about being naughty, and that’s not what we are about,” he says. “We are much more couple-focused, a bit more normal.”With rival sites called names like Adult365, Slateford says the name Lovehoney “popped into his head” when he was flicking through a compendium of sex movies and stumbled upon Mudhoney, the Russ Meyer film from which the US grunge rock band subsequently took their name.It may be in the business of sex, but Lovehoney is not a intrinsically sexy business. Housed in a squat building on the edge of an industrial estate on the outskirts of Bath, the mezzanine floor of the warehouse houses the slower moving lines, an arrangement that results in a box of pink strap-ons nestling beside a stack of policeman hats. However, this lucrative specialist retail market is expected to be worth £24bn globally by 2020, with industry data pointing to more relaxed attitudes to buying products that were once considered taboo.Lovehoney reported a 68% increase in profits to £5.1m on sales of £58m in the year to 31 March 2016. That success was recognised with a Queen’s Award for Enterprise last year. The bestselling product is the “Silver Bullet” – a £12.99 vibrator with 10 settings – which has benefited from a successful push into the US and Australia.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Part of Lovehoney’s tie-in Fifty Shades No Bounds collection. Photograph: Lovehoney“Prince Philip asked: ‘What do you do?’” says Longhurst, of his encounter with the Duke of Edinburgh at the Buckingham Palace drinks reception. “I said ‘Sex toys, sir’ and he tottered off, so it might not have registered.”This year Lovehoney is chasing growth in the US and Australia, having recently opened warehouses in both countries. “If we do half as well in the US as we have done in the UK we should be able to double the size of the business,” says Slateford.The retailer receives frequent approaches from potential investors but it is not looking for backers, having paid for warehouses in Brisbane and Atlanta out of its own cashflow.The men, who have known each other for 20 years, found themselves on opposite sides of the Brexit debate, Longhurst says. “I was a Leaver and Neal was a Remainer so we cancelled each other out.”For Longhurst, who is 47, the benefits of being part of the EU just didn’t stack up: “For me there is no such thing as an EU to trade with: it’s 27 other countries,” he says. Not to mention that, in the 2000s, Lovehoney’s vibrators fell foul of Brussels’ Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, designed to increase the recycling of obsolete electrical equipment.Slateford, who is 53, thought leaving would be a “load of hassle” and feels “quite European”. He concedes that the fallout of the vote, which has seen the value of sterling drop sharply against the dollar, could force up the price of its vibrators, which are manufactured in the Far East.“We buy a lot in dollars but we’ve got a natural hedge because we also sell a lot in dollars now,” says Slateford. “We have to be competitive but I suspect that some prices will have to rise at some point.”The owners’ other halves also hold senior positions in the business. Slateford’s partner, Bonny Hall, is head of product development.The whiteboard behind her is crowded with Post-it notes describing products still in development. New toys are tested by staff using codenames and, once they are close to launch, by a roster of 30 external testers.Hall, who previously worked in the wine trade, says project-management expertise is more prized than an adventurous sex life, as new products can involve up to eight months of to-ing and fro-ing with suppliers. “First you get the shape right, then you have to get the engineering right,” she explains.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lovehoney’s cofounders Neal Slateford, left, and Richard Longhurst. Photograph: John ScottVALENTINE BONUSThe annual dash to the shops on the eve of Valentine’s Day has become big business, with analysts predicting Britons will spend the best part of £500m on their loved ones in the coming days.Average spending per person on Valentine’s Day is expected to increase 12% to just shy of £30 this year, according to advisory firm PwC, as shoppers splurge on chocolates, flowers and gifts. It is predicting a total spend of £458.7m, as 14 February increasingly rivals Easter for retail revenue. But while fans of the romantic day are spending more, PwC’s survey of 2,000 adults found almost half were not even planning to buy a card.