As well as being chairman of the parish council, Peter Hood has a personal reason for worrying about the proposal to boost Heathrow's capacity by doubling the length of one of its runways."If these plans go ahead there would be a runway on top of my house," he said, speaking in the historic centre of Colnbrook, the latest village under threat from the airport's long-running and varied efforts to bulge outwards. "It wouldn't be for a few years yet, but still. It's a nice house. A bungalow. I like living there."Few people awaited Sir Howard Davies's report into possibilities to expand south-east England's airports as readily as those already living around Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted.Of the three options shortlisted, by far the most unexpected was the notion of lengthening one of Heathrow's existing runways by about two miles westward, allowing for simultaneous takeoffs and landings.It was certainly a surprise in Colnbrook, nestled in the corner where the A4 and M25 meet, just a mile or so from the airport's western perimeter. The parish council did not even object to it in advance, Hood said: "This one was a bit of an oddball. We didn't see it coming."The plan would involve more than the extended runway, Hood said: "They'd have to move the M25, and the plans show it coming in this direction. I imagine it would be turmoil. This would be a building site."Like many places around the airport, Colnbrook is set in green-belt countryside and manages to maintain an almost rural feel in parts. Planes are a constant presence but are sufficiently far away, for now, to be largely unheard inside buildings.A walk up and down Colnbrook's high street found precisely no one else who had heard, before Tuesday morning, of the extended runway plan. "It would make such a big difference to such a lovely village," said Sally Cox, 52, landlady of Ye Olde George pub, who moved to the village just under a year ago. She said: "It's the friendliest place I've ever lived. This is the sort of pub that if you come in on your own and stand at the bar, people will be talking to you immediately."Colnbrook's estate agent reports booming sales, while another pub, the Ostrich‚ which claims to be England's third-oldest, dating back to the 12th century, is about to be taken on by a new owner.The village of Sipson, meanwhile, reprieved when the government ruled out immediate plans for a third runway, now finds itself in the potential path of the other Heathrow option.Jane Taylor, chair of the Harmondsworth and Sipson Residents Association, lives at the end of the proposed new runway. "If a plane overshoots, I'll be entertaining more people than I can cope with," she said. "It would leave Sipson at the bottom of a runway, which would be intolerable."While residents both feared and expected Heathrow's plans would resurface, Taylor was defiant: "This isn't just Sipson. We will get together with other communities to have a concerted effort. West London doesn't want Heathrow expansion."Meanwhile, Brendon Sewill of the Gatwick Area Conservation Campaign warned it would be a mistake to see expansion at that airport as an easy option. While fewer homes would be directly affected, residents believe putting the airport on a potential equal footing with Heathrow would be catastrophic for the area."It's not just a runway, it's the industrialisation of Sussex," says Sewill. He believes the proposals would turn the area, full of peaceful villages and open countryside, into "the surrounds of Heathrow". "It's not just a strip of concrete: we're talking about changing the character of a part of England that people hold dear."