Four days into the expedition and the Akademik Shokalskiy has reached its first major waypoint: Macquarie Island. This lonely piece of rock – some 20km long, 5km wide and half way from New Zealand to Antarctica – is a piece of sea bed that was pushed up above the water by tectonic activity around 7m years ago. Geologist Greg Mortimer, one of the expedition leaders and a veteran Antarctic scientist, described it as a “treasure, one of the last untouched areas of the world".The plants, animals and rocks there provide a valuable scientific insight into the history of this part of the world, he said. The island is also home to tens of thousands of penguins, most famously at Lusitania Bay on the island's south-east coast, where they congregate in vast numbers on the beach.Antarctica Live daily data. Graphic: Sean Clarke/Andrew MasonThe island had been well known for more than a century – the sealing industry had ravaged populations of fur seals and penguins there over many decades – when the explorer Douglas Mawson stopped over on the original Australasian Antarctic Expedition. He landed on the island on 11 December 1911 with the intention of building a relay station for the wireless transmissions that he wanted to send to Australia from Antarctica. Mawson and his crew stayed on Macquarie for almost two weeks while they built two masts on Wireless Hill, at the north-east of the island. His expedition would become the first to send regular weather reports directly from the frozen continent, via this relay station.On his arrival, Mawson wrote about meeting an “army of Royal penguins; picturesque little fellows, with a crest and eyebrows of long golden-yellow feathers. A few yards from the massed ranks of the penguins was a mottled sea-leopard, which woke up and slid into the sea as we approached.”The penguins surrounded the crew of the Aurora, pecking at the their legs, and they “chattered with an audacity which defies description. It was discovered that they resented any attempt to drive them into the sea, and it was only after long persuasion that a bevy took to the water. This was a sign of a general capitulation, and some hundreds immediately followed, jostling each other in their haste, squawking, whirring their flippers, splashing and churning the water, reminding one of a crowd of miniature surf-bathers. We followed the files of birds marching inland, along the course of a tumbling stream, until at an elevation of some five hundred feet, on a flattish piece of ground, a huge rookery opened out – acres and acres of birds and eggs.”The expedition also recorded sightings of Maori hens, giant petrels and sea elephants in their first few days.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alok Jha and BBC radio producer Andrew Luck-Baker discuss their satellite communications as the Akademik Shokalskiy approaches Macquarie Island Photograph: Laurence Topham/GuardianGiven this rich heritage, Macquarie Island is carefully protected from visitors. The leaders of our expedition needed very specific (and, by the sounds of it, hard-to-get) permits to allow them to carry out their planned scientific research programme on Macquarie, which includes taking cores of peat and deploying underwater cameras to record and catalogue the species living there.At a pre-Macquarie briefing the night before, we were told that we'd need to be careful not to bring biological contaminants onto the island. That meant disinfecting shoes before and after arriving at the island and vacuum-cleaning any clothes and bags that we wanted to take ashore, to clear them of any seeds or any other organic materials that might inadvertently end up in the island's pristine habitat. Also, we were warned to stay at least five metres away from any wildlife to avoid disturbing them.This was going to be the first part of the expedition ashore, so Mortimer also introduced the procedure the ship's crew used to ensure that no-one got left behind when the Shokalskiy sailed away in a few days' time. Each passenger was assigned a tag number and it was their job to turn their tag, hung at the entrance to the boat where the gang plank is, to the “off” or “on” sides depending on whether they were off on Macquarie Island or on board the ship.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alok steadies a satellite phone unit in rough waters off Macquarie Island. Photograph: Laurence Topham/GuardianUnfortunately, the briefings and the excitement of seeing our first penguins turned out to be premature. The swells around the north east coast of the island, where we had dropped anchor, were too big for us to get ashore aboard one of the Shokalskiy's rubber dinghies. (The same swell, by the way, that has been making the boat roll around on the ocean so much in the past few days). We waited several hours in the morning, hoping that the waves would calm down, but to no avail.Eventually, the expedition leaders Chris Turney and Greg Mortimer made the decision to haul anchor and press on south. There was a murmur that we might be able to visit Macquarie (and its rich array of penguins) on the way home from the ice in a few weeks' time. Just before lunchtime, the ship's engines kicked in and the Shokalskiy headed, once again, deeper into the Southern Ocean.Next stop: Antarctica.Highlight of the day: Seeing five tiny penguins come swimming up to the ship as we arrived at Macquarie Island.Lowlight of the day: It's starting to get very cold - with wind-chill it got to below freezing at times out on the deck and exposed fingers took a while to regain normality. Better get used to it.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Heading south once more. Photograph: Laurence Topham/Guardian