My first thought is always to tear rather than cut. This applies to bread, of course, unless you are making toast; mozzarella, peaches, lettuce, scones and muffins, smoked salmon, roast chicken, cold ham, but not beef, which is far more tempting in softly undulating, rose-pink folds. There is a casual generosity in large, jagged pieces pulled apart by hand that you don’t get when something is thinly sliced or tortured into cubes. Soft edges, gently torn, feel easy and relaxed.And so it was with the ham salad I made this week, the meat torn roughly into frayed shards and tossed with ripe fruit. I used watermelon, whose sweet, cool juice is so refreshing with the salty quality of cured meat, but I could have used slices of cantaloupe or honeydew, nectarines or mango. (Never try to tear a mango, by the way.)I used a yogurt dressing, flecked with shredded basil leaves and stirred through with a little olive oil. The herb’s pepperiness is just the thing for watermelon. This is a dressing that also works with cold chicken, steamed asparagus, potato salad or as an accompaniment for a summer vegetable curry. I make it in a screw-top jar by the old-fashioned shaking method, and it will keep, refrigerated, for a couple of days.But hang on, there’s a fat lump of gammon first, simmered with bay, peppercorns and aniseed, glazed with apricots and marmalade and passed round the table in thick, juicy pieces. The salad is our treat for tomorrow.Glazed ham with apricotsServes 6gammon joint 1.5kg, rolled and tied black peppercorns 12star anise 3cloves 4bay leaves 4onion 1, mediumcelery 1 ribFor the glaze:apricots 500gwater 600mllemon 1caster sugar 60gmarmalade 3 tbspPut the joint of meat into a large, deep saucepan. Pour in enough cold water to cover the meat by a third, then add the star anise, cloves and peppercorns and then the bay, crushing the leaves as you go. Peel the onion and halve it, then tuck it in with the meat. Chop the celery rib in two or three short pieces and add them to the pot.Place the pan over a moderate heat and bring the water to the boil. Skim and discard any froth that rises to the surface, partially cover the pan with a lid, then lower the heat to a gentle simmer, the stock giving a mellow blip-blop.Leave the ham to cook, turning it over occasionally in the quietly bubbling stock, for 90 minutes then turn off the heat.Meanwhile, halve the apricots and discard their stones. Put the fruit in a saucepan and pour in the water. Cut two or three long strips of peel from the lemon and drop them into the water together with the juice of the lemon and the sugar.Bring the water to the boil then lower the heat and let the apricots simmer for about 10 minutes until just soft enough to crush. Remove the pan from the heat and set aside. Crush half of the apricots to a coarse purée using a fork or the back of a spoon, then stir in the marmalade.Set the oven at 200C/gas mark 6. Carefully remove the meat from the cooking liquor and lower it into a roasting tin. Place half of the apricots around the joint of meat, together with a few tablespoons of the cooking liquor to keep them moist during cooking.Spread the purée over the top of the ham (some of it will inevitably slide off into the roasting tin). Place the ham in the oven until the apricots are totally soft and the glaze is starting to brown lightly in places.Remove the roasting tin from the oven, cover with foil and leave to rest for 10 minutes. Carve the meat thinly, then serve it with the apricots that have cooked around it.A salad of ham, watermelon and basil      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tear it up: Nigel Slater’s salad of ham, watermelon and basil recipe. Photograph: Jonathan Lovekin for the ObserverThe best way to store leftover ham is to wrap the cool meat loosely in clingfilm and refrigerate it, remembering to bring it out a good hour before serving. Keep the pieces large enough that they need to be cut with a knife and fork, they will be juicier that way.Serves 2-3cooked ham 350gwatermelon 500mlwatercress a handfulFor the basil dressing:natural yogurt 250gwhite wine vinegar 2 tspolive oil 100mlbasil leaves 10gPut the yogurt into a large glass jar, add the white wine vinegar and the olive oil. Shred the basil leaves with a knife or by tearing them, then put them in the jar with a little salt and black pepper. Tighten the lid and shake the jar vigorously for a few seconds until all the ingredients are fully combined and you have a smooth, silky dressing.Tear the ham into large, irregular pieces and put the pieces in a serving dish. Peel the watermelon, cut the flesh into large pieces, removing the seeds as you go. Add the watermelon to the ham. Wash the watercress, removing any tough stalks, then combine with the ham and watermelon. Toss briefly with the basil dressing, or spoon it over the salad, as you wish.Email Nigel at nigel.slater@observer.co.uk or follow him on Twitter @NigelSlater