IUDs, implants, condoms and the ever-present pill: for years, contraceptive methods have remained run-of-the-mill while the search for a new alternative that could revolutionise the industry has come up short. Recent headlines have focused on the negative aspects of traditional hormonal birth control: the pill causes depression and gender mutation in freshwater fish, while a clinical trial for a male contraceptive jab was abandoned when the subjects began suffering side-effects already well-known to women.But 50 years since it first became available, the pill remains the default option, and women still shoulder the responsibility for preventing pregnancies. Could software be the solution? Elina Berglund Scherwitzl, founder and chief technical officer of mobile fertility app Natural Cycles thinks so.Using a sensitive thermometer and sophisticated mathematics, Natural Cycles is an old-fashioned period tracker, with extra features. The app, which launched in 2014, asks users to take their temperatures in the morning, preferably before getting out of bed, then input that into the app, which tells them where they are in their menstrual cycle. Days when a woman can get pregnant become red; “safe” days are green. So far, so low-tech. What makes Natural Cycles unique, though, is the algorithm developed by Berglund.The 32-year-old from Malmö in Sweden holds a PhD in particle physics and was a member of the team that discovered the Higgs boson at Cern, before developing her life-changing formula.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Natural Cycles app Photograph: Danijela Froki/Natural CyclesThrough daily use, the algorithm learns not just how to map an individual’s ovulation but to predict it, too. That allows the five days prior to ovulation to be identified in real time, alerting women to the fact that male sperm can linger for that long in their bodies, ready to pounce on an egg when it is released.The app fills a gap in the market, spotted by Berglund when she felt fed up with the limited options on offer other than hormonal contraception. She devised the algorithm and started mapping her own cycle, as well as those of female colleagues at Cern. It proved so succesful that Berglund and her husband, fellow physicist and Natural Cycle’s CEO Raoul Scherwitzl, decided to devote more time to the app.Berglund has hired a team of researchers that includes Kristina Gemzell Danielsson, a professor in obstetrics and gynaecology at Karolinska Institutet in Stockholm. Their most recently published clinical study showed that Natural Cycles, when used correctly, is as efficient in preventing pregnancies as the pill. Unlike the pill, though, it doesn’t offer any cover for fertile days, which means that comparing the app to medical contraception can be tricky.Asking women to put faith in their phones to protect them from getting pregnant is a complicated business. In Sweden, the app was criticised for targeting young lifestyle bloggers and their impressionable readers. One example was Blondinbella, by Isabella Löwengrip, who is now a Natural Cycles investor. (Löwengrip says that the average age of her 1.3 million weekly readers is just over 30 – two years older than the typical Natural Cycles subscriber.) In December last year, the Swedish Medical Products Agency also banned the app from calling itself a preventivmedel – the Swedish word for “contraception”, which is associated with purely medical birth control. As a result, it’s now marketed as a “fertility monitoring device” that “can be used to avoid pregnancies”. Berglund doesn’t seem too worried, though.“What we do is track fertility, right? And then women can use it how they want – it’s a tool for them to use this information either to prevent or plan a pregnancy.” Plus, she says, the company’s research shows that younger women are more disciplined in using contraception on red days; their pregnancy rates were much lower than those of users above the age of 35.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Natural Cycles app Photograph: Natural CyclesThe ideal app user, Berglund says, is a woman in a stable relationship who is planning to have children at some point, and who would like a break from hormonal contraception ahead of trying. Gemzell Danielsson points out that it’s not a good option for women who absolutely want to avoid a pregnancy. Nor does she recommend it for anyone who has what she describes as “an irregular lifestyle”, irregular menstrual cycles or lacks the motivation to stay on top of their cycles. The latter of these categories might account for the 45% drop-out rate that the app is currently experiencing; women who sign up but fail to keep to their thermometer schedule.The most important thing about Natural Cycles, Berglund and Gemzell Danielsson argue, is that it adds an alternative method to the mix. “I’m still surprised that there hasn’t been such a product before,” Berglund says. “I have been thinking about this since I was a teenager, because I didn’t feel well from taking the pill.”Berglund is critical of the conveyor-belt style in which young women are prescribed it, and the fact that birth control is still very one-sided within relationships. “Sweden is supposed to be the most gender-equal country, but I think when it comes to contraception … the burden is very much on the woman.” Natural Cycles, she insists, is “more of a couple’s thing – the woman measures her temperature and the man sometimes has to wear a condom.” ”The most important thing for the company, Berglund says, is to gain trust. “That’s why we keep performing clinical studies and why we try to achieve a higher ISO class of medical device status.”But before Natural Cycles can become as trustworthy a contraceptive option as hormonal methods, larger-scale, independent studies will need to prove its efficacy. So while the app hasn’t killed the pill just yet, it is a welcome addition.