For most families, I imagine, family photos are sacred. They are arranged tidily and chronologically in albums with titles such as Xmas ’91 and Majorca ’98. They are not stored in plastic crates, there aren’t 5,000 of them and they definitely don’t include mysterious snaps of electrical fittings and occasional (full-frontal) birthing photos in all their gruesome splendour. My family photos do all of the latter. If they were a song, they wouldn’t be the quaint and catchy Picture Book by The Kinks, but a 15-minute long early Sonic Youth track with intermittent screaming and 108 solid seconds of feedback.I grew up in a house where, at any given moment, someone was naked or shouting, or both. The family photos reflect this. It’s not that there aren’t any idyllic snaps of brown birthdays in the 80s or orange weddings in the 70s, but given the chaos and the sheer volume of pictures, there’s a Russian roulette element to picking your way through decades of Margolises.Dip a hand into one of the overflowing crates and you might bring up a shot of one of the many family cats. Click. Or it could be a picture of my mum reading a paper on the loo in the 80s. Click. Or it could be an image of my brother’s fat, blood-soaked, screaming head making its way into the world, framed by my mum’s splayed legs. BANG.Even worse, you could unwittingly fish out a 20-year-old photo of my parents posing as Adam and Eve, on a Greek holiday. Of all the oddities and horrors lurking in those crates, these unholy images – about 10 of them, I think – are the most compelling excuse for never letting anyone from outside the immediate family delve into our photos. It’s just too risky. Although, whenever friends have asked me what was like growing up with liberal, screaming, naked, swearing parents, I’ve been tempted to dig out the Adam and Eve photo to show them.Now more than ever, we use photos as personal propaganda. On Facebook and Instagram, we curate photographic evidence of our lives basically going to plan. No one, I’ve noticed, is ever crying and eating spaghetti hoops straight out of the tin on Facebook.Within my family’s many thousands of unedited trapped moments, there’s some behind the scenes stuff. “Babies are cute,” says the picture of my sister, aged one, in a sunhat. “But look at where they come from,” say the birthing pictures. “Holidays are nice,” say the yellow and blue beach pictures. “But they can lead to electrocution,” say various photos of electrical fittings – taken for litigious purposes – from a Spanish villa with dodgy wiring.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eleanor’s mum in 1987, reading on the loo. Photograph: Courtesy Eleanor MargolisIn On Photography, Susan Sontag wrote, “To collect photographs is to collect the world.” It’s hard to tell whether our 5,000 or so family photos were consciously collected, or just (in the case of “poorly wired lamp” series, in particular) not thrown away. But knowing that, in any given pile, I could find pictures of my journalist dad interviewing an AK-47 wielding grand wizard of the Ku Klux Klan, in the 80s; or a long dead cat; or the picture from the 60s that my mum insists on keeping, of the girl from Liverpool who taught her how to say “fuck”, the photos really do seem like our very own chunk of world. A world in which people get electrocuted on holiday. And children teach each other how to swear. And nerdy Jewish men interview heavily armed racists. From underexposed and shoddily composed pictures of elderly relatives, to the parts of the collection that got chewed by mice, our photos are laden with imperfections and so are we.Life, after all, is solid boredom and humiliation, occasionally punctuated by moments of joy. The job of personal photos is usually to trap those elusive bliss commas in amber. But carrying this off requires a certain amount of trial and error. You snap away, at a wedding for example, then weed out every scowling bridesmaid and dangerously drunk uncle until the narrative reads, “Everyone in attendance smiled for a solid seven hours”. You know, the same methods applied to official photos of North Korean national holidays. And yes, I am comparing your average wedding album to a collections of photos touted by one of the world’s most oppressive regimes. And I’d do it again.The likelihood is that sheer laziness birthed my family’s 5,000-photo shit show. But within the chaos is enough boredom and humiliation to counterbalance the fun. I’m on the fence about whether this is noble or just fantastically depressing. Either way, if I want to look at a picture of my mum looking indifferent in 1983, I can.Every couple of years, my parents, my siblings and I gather together, tip the contents of both crates on to the living room floor and engage in a ceremonial memory binge that smells like developing chemicals and leaves our fingers dry and dust-coated. We commemorate – in between all the idyllic stuff – the time when my brother and shaved off his eyebrows when he was 13 and the Christmases where everyone screamed at each other more than usual. And the minute shorts my dad wore in the mid-80s. And my mum’s turquoise boiler suit.Then there are my dad’s photos of Pakistan, Guatemala and Japan – full of people we’ll never meet and who are blissfully unaware that they exist in crates, next to pictures of some British woman giving birth. I can only hope that we’re all extras in other families’ intensely personal photo collections to make up for it.From a mess of beaches and racists, cats, babies and birthdays, 70s people with massive glasses, accidents, sacrilege, tantrums and times my mum erupted into a cackle that none of us can quite imitate, we piece together our history, shorts and all.