Your editorial rightly highlights the serious problem of finding adequate funding to allow developing countries to tackle and cope with climate change (Last chance salon in Paris: there is no planet B, 30 November). It has been estimated that this could cost about $3,500bn, a truly staggering sum at this time of a global economic slowdown. Yet it mustn’t be forgotten that, when the global banking system was threatened, the world’s rich economies responded with programmes to print €7tn of quantitative easing to keep the financial system afloat, ie twice that thought to be required to deal with climate change in vulnerable countries.Indeed the European Central Bank is still e-printing €60bn a month under its QE programme and is committed to doing so until September 2016. Our report Climate QE for Paree proposed that if it were to allocate say €10bn a month either from this QE programme or from an additional QE commitment, it could use it to buy climate change bonds from the European Investment Bank. The EIB could then direct these funds to climate change programmes in both Europe and developing countries. This could have a galvanising effect on other rich countries, putting pressure on them to introduce their own climate QE initiatives and thus further bolster global funds towards thousands of billions eventually needed to keep temperature rises at 2C. We found the money to save the banks, we now need to do the same to save the planet.Professor Richard MurphyCity UniversityColin HinesConvener, Green New Deal group• You rightly say that each of us has a contribution to make in the climate change struggle. Two years ago we installed eight solar panels on our roof at our own expense, generating energy to feed into the national grid. We were able to do so but most households are not; hence Nicholas Stern correctly links action to poverty elimination. But if, as is vitally important, our contribution is to be widely replicated by the thousands who can, the least the government should do is drop its policy of reducing the feed-in tariff; indeed it should increase this cost-effective stimulant.Benedict BirnbergLondon• Is the UK that is pledging financial support for clean energy research (Major economies promise $20bn for clean energy, 30 November) the same UK that has cut subsidies for wind and solar power, is driving all out for fracking and gas-fuelled electricity plants, has increased support for North Sea oil production, has ended home energy efficiency grants and watered down efficiency requirements for new houses, and will soon end grants for electric cars? The same one that is offering billions in support, funded by doubled electricity wholesale prices, for nuclear plants, yet claims to be helping households by cutting the piffling environmental tariffs on energy bills (Osborne puts forward plan to reduce household bills by £470, 30 November)? For sheer chutzpah this blatant hypocrisy takes the prize.Michael MillerSheffield• It seems the Labour party is missing a trick. While David Cameron appears at the Paris summit, his leadership should be questioned. Having caved in to George Osborne’s pressure to break the party’s 2015 election commitment of a £1bn carbon capture scheme, and slashing solar subsidies, attention needs to be given as to whether Cameron really is the right man to lead us safely out of environmental turbulence to safe levels of carbon emissions. Labour urgently needs to turn its attention away from infighting and focus on opposition so we get the crucial pledges we need in Paris. The impact of these pledges on our long-term security should not be ignored or underestimated in the chaos of this week’s debates.Alice AnsellLondon• John Prescott and Andrew Hammond’s article (theguardian.com, 30 November) says “Lawmakers are … a fundamental part of an effective strategy to tackle the world’s environmental challenges. Along with governments, they can now help co-create, and follow through to implement, what could be a foundation of global sustainable development in coming decades for billions across the world.”While I agree to some extent with the sentiment, environmental law is only effective if it can be implemented. There’s no mention in the article about how a global law could be enforced. Mr Prescott should be aware of the difficulties in enforcing international laws and the limitations of such enforcement.Laws of this nature, and arguably any international environmental law, do not deliver. The approach must change if we are to agree a global, effective dialogue and agreement. What the Paris conference needs is not bluster and backroom deals with the threat on law enforcement, but compassionate politics to bring the world on board. And maybe the leaders of the developed countries could first say sorry to the victims of climate change.Paul CollinsBristol• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com