Activist comedian Sean Bedlam tells a story about the greatest gig of his comic life; an audience who seized every gag, chuckled at every callback, chortled at every punchline. For a comedian who flies explicit political colours (Bedlam was recently in Paris, agitating for climate change action during the UN conference there), it was unusual to experience such consensus in a crowd. A punter approached him afterwards, still laughing, and slapped his back. “That was great!” said the man, in a clear local brogue. “But who was that Tony Abbott guy you kept mentioning?” Abbott was the prime minister at the time.Not everyone is drawn to politics, in life or in comedy; moreover, the subject is polarising by its very nature. Yet comics are still keen to risk the love of a crowd for the topic – and not all with the same success as Bedlam.Adrienne Truscott's Asking for It review – sophisticated confrontationalism Some of the biggest tickets at the Melbourne International Comedy Festival (MICF) this year are for those who have built international careers on provocative political material. Wil Anderson’s never been one to shy from expressing his convictions; Nazeem Hussain’s material has made a furious target of Australian racism and cultural hypocrisy; and in Adrienne Truscott’s most famous show, she delivered a series of rape jokes with no pants on. Asking For It was not only the apogee of feminist comedy, but, in her willingness to take on the structural misogyny of comedy itself, set a new standard in comic bravery.Comedy audiences do not represent a unified political creed; in fact, the suggestion that they might drew laughs from the comics I interviewed. Toby Halligan – whose own MICF show Toby or Not Toby featured attacks on the Coalition crackdown on Safe Schools and, most memorably, a demonstrative smiting of homophobic conservatism with a wobbling “dildo sword” – says that it would be equally incorrect to presume comics themselves were a homogenous political grouping.“I think a lot of comedians avoid talking about politics because it’s material that a) comedians find boring and b) audiences find boring,” he says. “But I grew up in Canberra, so I didn’t really have a choice ... In Canberra, it was politics or drugs, so I went with politics over all.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘When you’re trying to make buck’s nights laugh, it become depressing and difficult’: Zoe Coombs Marr as Dave Photograph: Dave HeadFor the Barry Award-nominated Zoe Coombs Marr, performing as her drag alter-ego Dave in Trigger Warning, the decision to be political was implicit, rather than deliberate. “Just being a woman onstage in a show, it’s already political,” she says, of the career choice that itself has become the subject of her material. Coombs Marr even admits within the dazzlingly clever show that she created Dave to inoculate herself against the misogynistic atmosphere she encountered on the standup scene when she started out at 18.“Standup is difficult,” she tells me. “In Australia we’ve got a tiny scene because we’ve got a small population. We don’t have enough people to sustain niches, so ... a lot of the rooms that have audiences are really mainstream. If you sit outside, you sit very far outside and you become very aware of that. I love comedy and people in comedy, but when you’re trying to make buck’s nights laugh, it becomes depressing and difficult.”“It became funnier for me to parody what was going on, and parrot people’s expectations,” she says, of creating Dave. “I’d say the work I make is political, but I make the distinction in small and big ‘P’s with that. I don’t want people to think I’m doing some kind of sketch about John Howard ... although, I did have Dave doing a sketch about John Howard in the last show. But it’s political in that it’s about queer politics – and because [that]’s what I’m interested in doing, it comes out.”Coombs Marr will take the politics of her show one step further this year, when she and fellow queer comedian, Rhys Nicholson, get “married” to each other on Friday night in Melbourne. The wedding will highlight the absurdity of a law that permits two people who don’t love each other to get married, but refuses the same right to the comedians and their same-sex partners.Coombs Marr credits the internet for moving the social conversations around gender and race forward, helping her show find resonance with a sympathetic audience. But what of the social conversations Australia is still struggling to have? A poll only a year ago found that our internationally condemned treatment of refugees was of concern to a mere 22% of the population. Isn’t creating an entire comedy festival show to advocate on their behalf – especially for a young, bright star like Tom Ballard – a needless risk?Melbourne Comedy Festival review – Axis of Awesome, Nazeem Hussain and Sara Pascoe Ballard spends more than an hour in his Barry-nominated show Boundless Plains to Share making a surprisingly hilarious case for a more humane Australia. He is grateful for winning the Moosehead, a festival award that funds the development of “risky” projects, which gave him the opportunity to have the resources and imprimatur to explore what is important to him. “The immediate question is, ‘How can you do comedy about this topic?’ But you can talk about breakup a death or disease – I really believe you can do comedy about absolutely anything if you come at it from the right place,” Ballard says. As for the topic at hand, the comic potential is ripe: “Things have got so ridiculous at this point, the situation itself is a farce. The consequences of our crazy fear and insane border protection policies have resulted in some bureaucratic comedy gold.”Of course, not everyone swallows the show. One bloke made a point of walking out during Ballard’s set while wearing a “Straya” jersey; he may have felt more at home during the patriotic display of flags at the Melbourne Town Hall, where the satirical trio of the True Aussie Patriots have made themselves another festival hit.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   True Aussie Patriots, who perform at Melbourne Comedy Festival 2016. Photograph: True Aussie PatriotsInspired by horror-watching the propaganda of far right hate groups Reclaim Australia and the United Patriots Front, comics Anne Edmonds, Damien Power and Greg Larsen decided their most concrete contribution was unrestrained parody. Homemade videos, all those flags and a truly stunning “Australia suit” nail the nationalist aesthetic to side-splitting perfection.Says Patriot Greg Larsen: “We just want to highlight ... that sinister racism that exists in those movements. They continually say that they’re not racists and not bigots, but trying to protect Aussie values – but it’s clearly racist, and clearly ultra right wing.”Larsen elucidates the sense of mission that motivates them all: “We are comedians,” he says, “so we want to shine a light on that and be funny at the same time”.Melbourne Comedy Festival runs until 17 April; Sydney Comedy Festival runs from 18 April until 15 May