PremieresFear the Walking Dead   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The first half of the second season of this zombie drama saw our troupe of survivors taking refuge in a Mexican paradise only to be kicked out when they didn’t believe that the reanimated corpses of their loved ones should be kept alive below the hacienda. As the second half kicks off, Madison’s family is breaking apart as Nick goes off on his own adventures and her boyfriend Travis is on the hunt for his son Chris, the most annoying teenager on all of television. At least her daughter Alicia and her partner in crime Strand might help her survive until season three. AMC, Sunday 21 August at 9pm EST.60 Days In   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A&E was so confident that this show – which puts ordinary, law-abiding people into county jail and films how they fit in with the criminal population – was going to be a hit that they renewed it for its second season before it even premiered. The gamble paid off and it’s now one of the biggest reality shows on cable television. It also made it easier for production to get a whole new crew of fake inmates in front of the cameras before everyone got hip to what this show entails. However, if this season is anything like the first one, it will be riveting. A&E, Thursday 18 August at 9pm EST.Superstore   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Tom Daley isn’t the only one working the springboard at the Olympics. NBC is using the events in Rio to gin up some interest in their shows before they premiere this fall. While a special episode of The Voice probably won’t give that popular show much of a bump, a sneak peek of Superstore, the workplace comedy about the multi-ethnic team that runs a Walmart-esque big box retailer, might find itself some new viewers. Catch a brand new episode now before it returns on 22 September for the rest of its second season. NBC, Friday 19 August at 10.30pm EST. New on streamingFearless   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest For something that only lasts a few seconds, bull riding is one of the most dangerous and exciting sports in the world. This new docuseries (which is really just a reality show that is trying to show off its fancy pedigree) follows a group of Brazilian bull riders as they compete in their home country and at the world championships in Las Vegas. The way the rodeo treats animals is unlikely to impress Peta, but the focus on the humans behind the sport should make for six great episodes of television. Netflix, Friday 19 August. What to catch up onHalt and Catch Fire   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Let’s just get this out of the way: the first episodes of Halt and Catch Fire aren’t that bad. This 80s-set drama, about three people in Texas trying to make one of the first personal computers, got off to a rocky start with critics and fans, but after two full seasons, it’s one of the best shows on television right now. Yes, the second season, which shifts focus to the female characters as they try to start their own business, is much better, but the first season is still well worth watching. The third premieres on AMC on 23 August, but all 20 episodes are currently streaming on Netflix.TV newsMaking a Murderer subject’s conviction is overturnedThe amazing music of Stranger ThingsThe CW focuses on first gay superhero showAmerican version of Great British Bake Off to continue on ABCJames Corden gets another TV show deal for Drop the MicThomas Gibson fired from Criminal Minds after kicking producer