Mia Hansen-Løve’s latest film tells of a life at the crossroads. It’s about a woman in crisis, the quest for artistic fulfilment and the freedom that comes from an acceptance of loss. Things to Come takes its lead from the experiences of Hansen-Love’s mother, a Parisian academic, although the director points out that all of her films are personal enterprises, steeped in the specifics of her own individual concerns. Tangentially, I suspect, this one is about her as well.Things to Come review – Isabelle Huppert in exquisite agony She suggests we meet around lunchtime at her Paris apartment. I know the director is married to Olivier Assayas – a fellow film-maker, 26 years her senior – so I’m picturing something grand and book-lined, perhaps with a maid smiling discreetly in the wings. Instead, the flat turns out to be a spartan duplex, as defiantly impersonal as an Airbnb. Hansen-Løve pads barefooted to the door and says she can’t offer me coffee, she’s not even sure she has tea. She plops down on the couch and appears to be racking her brains. “I could pour us some water,” she says with a faint show of brightness.On balance, I reckon the surroundings suit her. At the age of 35, Hansen-Løve still carries herself like an ascetic student who has just pulled an all-nighter. She has sleep-dust in her eyes and her red hair is a haze, while her floral-print trousers could conceivably be PJs. Her conversation, meantime, is fuelled by earnest enthusiasm. She talks of Ingmar Bergman and Andrea Arnold; Kelly Reichardt and Abbas Kiarostami. She says she’d love to work with Hou Hsiao-Hsien. She can’t imagine a world where this would ever happen.Barack, the Beatles and Bridget Jones's Baby – 40 films to watch in autumn 2016 Hansen-Løve talks like a novice when she’s practically an old hand. I loved her 2009 breakthrough, The Father of My Children, a heart-soaring drama about a death in the family, and adored 2011’s Goodbye First Love, a piercing coming-of-age story. Hansen-Løve makes films that are tender and nuanced. Her characters are like saplings bent by storms. In last year’s Eden, she mined the experiences of her brother Sven, a one-time DJ, to paint the French house-music scene as a boulevard of half-chances, epiphanies and broken dreams.“I’ve never made a film that was literally about my life,” she says, “although Goodbye First Love was probably the closest. But they are all transpositions, inspired by the people I know. The idea of a portrait is the first thing for me. There is a precise presence I am trying to grasp. People I’ve known and loved or who have disappeared. Like a painter, you know, even though I’m not a painter at all – I’m a really bad drawer.” She scrunches her face with embarrassment and reaches for her water.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Isabelle Huppert in Things to ComeInevitably, the facts and fictions have a tendency to blur. Her work risks leaving her subjects uncomfortably exposed. She worries about Eden and the effect it had on her brother. Sven collaborated on the story and provided the basis for the footloose nearly-man at its centre. But when he saw the movie, he found the portrait upsetting. “He had a feeling it shone a harsh and brutal light on his life at the time. I mean, when we made the film, he was already in the process of leaving that world behind. But the film accelerated the process – a lot. So it was brutal and cruel, but it was probably good for him as well.” Another scrunch of the face. “So yes, it’s difficult. But I don’t know any other way I can write.”Eden: 'There was no film that took club culture seriously' On Things to Come, it was her mother’s turn. Hansen-Løve’s parents (both philosophy professors) separated when she was in her 20s, and her mum’s subsequent search for a new life and meaning is played out afresh by Isabelle Huppert. Her mother, she says, was OK with the process. She read over the script, advised on the philosophy scenes. “The only time she censored me – and this is very strange – was the name of the cat. In the film, she has a cat called Pandora. In reality, the cat was Desdemona. I wanted to use it, but she said, ‘No, that’s the cat’s privacy.’ I love the fact that she would be totally cool with everything else but, ‘Oh no, please don’t touch the cat.’”Hansen-Løve started out as an actor and as an occasional critic for Cahiers du Cinéma. In her teens, she landed a supporting role in Assayas’s 1999 film Late August, Early September, and they’ve been together since she turned 20. Their daughter, Vicky, is now seven. I’m tempted to view them as a kind of latter-day Agnès Varda and Jacques Demy: married artists whose individual work can be read as a kind of ongoing conversation.Hansen-Løve laughs. She’s not so sure. “I ask a lot from him,” she admits. “But he doesn’t ask a lot from me. I think the age difference is partly why. He’s more self-confident than I am. So he reads my scripts and then, when I’m editing, he’s always the first person I show the film to. And that allows me not to ask anybody else. It’s a clear, simple dialogue, and I trust him completely.”  Boulevard of half-chances … Eden.Does the fact that they’re both in the same industry ever lead to friction? “Well, there is some friction between us as a couple, like all couples, on an everyday life level. But film-making has been like a paradise, like a preserved area, and our relationship has allowed me to find serenity in my work. I don’t think I would have found it otherwise.”I look around the spartan apartment. There is a poster for Eden on one wall, a poster for an Éric Rohmer retrospective on the other. Aside from that, the place could be a blank slate. I’m guessing this can’t be the actual family home. Is it, perhaps, an office where she comes to write? “No,” says Hansen-Løve. “It’s my home. It’s my new home.” But this subject seems to unnerve her. She gives a mirthless laugh. “I just moved here. It’s quite small, I know, but there are other rooms downstairs.” Another laugh. “But I haven’t really been living here. I’m just starting out.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the Things To Come trailer on YouTubeI open my mouth to ask another question, at which point she piles in to explain that, actually, she has just returned from the island of Faro, where Ingmar Bergman used to live. She says I’d love it. She was there scripting a new film, which will be called Bergman Island. And what’s funny is that the story touches on all the things we’ve been discussing – the professional and personal relationship between a film-making couple. Of course, Bergman Island is not really about her and Assayas. But she accepts that some people will choose to see it that way.Things to Come review - Mia Hansen-Løve puts Isabelle Huppert through later life crisis She takes a gulp of water and fixes me with a stare. “When I was in my 20s,” she says, “I was completely lost in life. Realising I wanted to make films gave me strength. Because film-making is a perpetual questioning of existence. What is beauty? Why am I living? And I need that, I think, perhaps because of being the daughter of two philosophy teachers.”She’s on a roll now. I can’t get a word in. “When I was 20,” she says, “I felt so disconnected from the world, so melancholic. And to find this activity that allowed me to deal with all that and get me back into the world – I’m still so amazed by that. I don’t have the words to say how happy that makes me. It saved my life. I mean, I know other people probably say that. But for me it is true.”Outside, interview done, I decide to walk the two miles back to Gard du Nord. The day is warm and sunny; the walk should be pure pleasure. And yet all the way I’m nagged by the memory of that sparsely furnished apartment - and by the awkward follow-up question I tried and failed to get out. Why is Hansen-Love there? Where is her husband and daughter? Has the marriage now ended or am I merely jumping at shadows? I don’t know, it’s a mystery and no doubt that’s as it should be. Some situations need time to sift and settle and be repositioned as drama. She may feel free to tell us, a few films down the line.• Things to Come is released on 2 September.