Part civil servant, part detective - Ian Cowie spends his time tracking down the organised criminals and illegal polluters of Yorkshire.Based in Leeds, Cowie is team leader of the Environment Agency's crime unit. He and his team of 14 enforcers have been involved with 50 prosecutions over the past year, putting criminal polluters behind bars or slapping them with fines running into tens of thousands of pounds.The Environment Agency was formed in 1996; before that Cowie worked for West Yorkshire metropolitan borough council. After studying environmental science at the University of Newcastle, he started working in the field of research and development of waste disposal options, as well as assessing the changing demographic of waste over time.Cowie now heads a team that looks after the biggest area within the Environment Agency, spanning the top of the Pennines to Humberside and Hull, Teeside down to the south of Sheffield. "We deal with the whole spectrum of waste," he says. "Illegal scrapyards – people just start dismantling cars and letting the oil drain out without the proper facilities to contain it. People start tipping in farmers' fields to raise levels, without any protection to the environment."Cowie manages both the enforcement arm of the environmental crime unit – which carries out surveillance operations, interviews suspects and puts together a case to take to court – and the intelligence side, which liases with the public and gathers information. Some of the team are ex-police.They often work in partnership with local police forces, and sometimes other enforcement agencies such as the UK Border Agency.The job can get dangerous and the enforcers try to keep their heads down, staying off the electoral register and out of the yellow pages. "We do get threatened, we do get followed. The team has defensive driving skills so they can recognise when people are following them – such as driving around a roundabout three times to try and put people off track," he says. "We have had somebody who has been held up by his lapels against the side of a skip."Because the environment crime team is so small, the criminals prosecuted take it personally. Cowie deals with the same criminals time and again. "I can't believe the lengths some people go to, to spoil the environment just to make money out of it," he says. "Sometimes I prosecute people four times or more. We're not going to stop and go away - and they keep going."The biggest challenge is gathering enough evidence to make a successful prosecution. "There's always more illegal activity out there than we can deal with so it's a case of starting with the most polluting and work down," says Cowie.The Environment Agency now has the power to confiscate criminals' assets. The evidence against illegal polluters is usually very strong, so in court they fight the procedure not the facts. "There's always a threat that they will fight tooth and nail because they know we might take the rest of the money off them," says Cowie. "They don't attack our evidence but they'll attack the way we got it. We've got to do everything right, make sure the filing's perfect."Cowie doesn't think of himself as a civil servant. "Coming from the local authority, I still see myself as serving the local public. It may be more central now, but I still see it slightly different from the civil service."• Want your say? Email us at public.leaders@theguardian.com.To get our articles on policy and leadership direct to your inbox, sign up to the Guardian Public Leaders Network now.Looking for your next role? See our Guardian jobs site for the latest job opportunities in local government.• For the latest on public services leadership, follow us: @publicleaders