For three months in 2006, every day after school, Justin Cronin took his daughter for a bike ride. As they cycled around their neighbourhood, eight-year-old Iris prodded him for a story, which had to obey two rules: firstly, “that it was interesting” and secondly, that one character had red hair (to match her own). The pair slung ideas back and forth on their bikes, until the weather turned. Bikes went in the shed and Cronin, who at that stage was the author of a few moderately successful books, started noting their brainstorming marathon down. “Two days later, I had 30 single-space pages of complete narrative information,” he says. “I’m a writer! I couldn’t ignore that. So I started actually writing it. Then 10 years went by.”What that decade produced was a trilogy beginning with The Passage, a post-apocalyptic vampire blockbuster. Initially set in 2016, the US government starts whisking away death row inmates to test a drug intended to lengthen human life. Progress is stagnating until FBI agents are asked to snatch a six-year-old girl called Amy so she can receive a refined dose of the drug – and everything goes to hell.The Passage: a post-apocalyptic vampire tale you can get your teeth into | Alison Flood Cronin’s doorstopper arrived in 2010, amid much excitement: before it was even printed, rights were sold in 45 countries and Hollywood began bidding on the film rights (these went to Fox 2000, for Ridley Scott’s production company Scott Free). His horror-fantasy blend debuted on the New York Times bestsellers list in third spot and stayed for eight weeks. Some of the snippier reviews deemed it an imitation of Stephen King’s The Stand; King himself called The Passage “enthralling”, with “the vividness that only epic works of fantasy and imagination can achieve”. A sequel, The Twelve, arrived in 2012 and now, four years later, the final book is here: The City of Mirrors.Not much changed for Cronin in the decade after The Passage barnstormed bookshops. He says that he still writes in the room above his garage and complains he is the only one who takes the bins out. But it gave him the luxury of quitting his other job – teaching English at universities in Texas and Philadelphia – and brought him a lot more readers. “I was happy before The Passage sold – I was writing books, doing what I wanted, a supportive publisher, I had two healthy children. I had zero complaints!” he says. “But now I have a lot of readers. There is a certain kind of pressure with that; not an unwelcome one, because it means people are interested, but I want to live up to their interest.”Cronin talks about the process of writing with great joy; everything that comes afterwards less so. “Every time I write a book I want to do something I haven’t done before. Publishing, to some extent, wants you to succeed at one thing and then do it again, and again, and again,” he says. “There is a kind of deafening silence between finishing copy edits and the sale date. And reviews! You get five fabulous reviews and one shrug, you always remember the shrug. I am nervous about this one.” The diagnosis made me want to make it the best book I possibly could. My life’s work is an important thing, right?Justin Cronin One of the most startling elements of Cronin’s writing is his willingness to jump time: The Passage’s opening thunders along at a popcorn-movie pace until it halts, leaping forward 93 years to the quiet desolation of an isolated colony sitting in the ruins of what was once the US. The young inhabitants spend their days scavenging resources and fending off “virals” until Amy arrives, 100 years old and looking like a teenager. In the 2012 sequel The Twelve, all the protagonists have reached their 20s. In The City of Mirrors, they’re Cronin’s age and, as he puts it, “having a midlife crisis at the end of the world”.“The City of Mirrors was always an empty nest story,” he says. “I am going through a transitional phase of life, and this is an expression of what is happening to me. You never feel like you’re old enough to run things, but then you look up and realise the president of the US is the same age as you. All of a sudden, you’re the boss – but then your kids grow up and go away. What am I supposed to do now? My characters all feel some sense of loss in this book and I’ll tell you something, that is a lot like looking up from a 10-year trilogy and realising you’re 53 and your daughter has left home.” Does he feel a bit lost, without his daughter, and with his story all told? “I was for a while. My son still lives under the roof. But I am consulting my list of other things I want to achieve.” What is on it? “I want to be a better pianist. Some day, I want to play in a jazz quartet. It can be the worst one in the world, but I want to be in it.”Cronin lovingly calls his trilogy “a luxury”, a preoccupation for his brain that kept it busy for a decade: “I am never really happy unless I am immersed in a story. I have structured my brain over the last 20 or 30 years to have a story preoccupying some level of my mental state.” He sighs. “Now it is done, it is like someone has tipped over all the drawers and the room is uncomfortable and empty.”In the four years between The Twelve and The City of Mirrors, Cronin encountered some impatience online over how long the final book was taking. There was a reason: two months shy of his 50th birthday, he failed a blood test, then a biopsy – then received a cancer diagnosis.Writing suddenly took a back seat, as his days were spent in consultation rooms, instead of his office. And now? “I am fine,” he says cheerily. “My situation was taken care of by wonderful doctors and I was reassured that one day I will die of something completely different. When something like that happens, it is time-consuming.” But after he had surgery for the cancer and sat down to write, his thinking had changed: the pressures of a large fanbase were not to be prioritised over making the final book the best in the trilogy. “It is amazing how these things can change your thinking, and I think you should honour that. It made me want to make it the best book I possibly could. My life’s work is an important thing, right? Some people voiced their frustration, but I was unconcerned because the book was good. I want my headstone to say: ‘He was a good guy and he wrote good books’. Deadlines are motivating, but I am not going to let them be a prison.”The City of Mirrors contains a glimpse of humanity 900 years in the future, when Amy’s story has evolved to become something akin to a religious myth. Religious iconography is scattered throughout the trilogy: Project Noah, a plague-like virus, a text called The Book of Twelves complete with language reminiscent of the Bible. None of this stems from personal belief: Cronin says he was raised in a “lazy Catholic way” and in an essay, recalls choosing the name Cornelius for his confirmation because he was Cronin’s favourite character in the Planet of the Apes. However, the trilogy follows his interest in how humans develop myth and religion; after all, everything starts with a scientist who theorises there is a biological reality behind the myth of the vampire. “What is the reality in the dirt, that gave rise in nine centuries to a culturally important mythology?” he says. “King Arthur would have had no teeth, probably smelled awful, but had enough political acumen to unite the British Isles and was in the right place at the right time … 1,500 years later we’ve mythologised him utterly, into something deeply connected to a national identity.”There is a tendency in speculative fiction to depict future societies that lose religion, but Cronin’s suggests the opposite: new faith could emerge from scientific catastrophe. “That makes sense to me, we always want that,” he says. “People don’t give that up. Now, science has done remarkable things – from the outset, I wanted my vampires to obey the laws of biology, physics and the dramatic unities of space, time and action – but that is not all there is in the world.”A decade on, the hype around a Ridley Scott film of The Passage has long died, but rumours have resurfaced of it appearing on the small screen instead. “I don’t want to say anything premature that doesn’t come to pass,” Cronin says. “I’d love it if it happened and I think television is the right format. A lot of terrific character-driven storytelling is happening on TV right now, and ultimately that is what this is. It wouldn’t be easily compressed into a two-hour movie.” He does not see himself involved in the project, whatever form it takes: “I am not a novelist who can’t wait to write a screenplay or be involved in a movie. The infrastructure for writing a novel is so much simpler; I don’t need a caterer or 200 people.”The City of Mirrors by Justin Cronin – extract And his daughter. Had she completed the trilogy she helped him start? “Since those jolly three months when we rolled around the neighbourhood, she has had the time-consuming job of growing up,” he says, a little mournfully. “She’s not read the last one yet.”The City of Mirrors is out now in the US and Australia, and on Thursday in the UK. It is available from the Guardian bookshop for £16.