Look closely at popular television comedy to see if it might tell you something about wider society and you are asking for trouble. Humour, after all, is not supposed to stand much analysis. The much-used analogy from EB White is that the process is like dissecting a frog: few people are interested and the frog dies of it.But when the BBC announced a “landmark season” of re-booted sitcoms last week, marking 60 years of television entertainment, it was a clear invitation to wonder what the hits of the past tell us about the changing face of Britain.The broadcaster plans to start off this summer with a special live episode of Mrs Brown’s Boys, but the season will also feature a faithfully rendered episode of Are You Being Served?, written by Derren Litten as a tribute to its creators, David Croft and Jeremy Lloyd, along with a sequel to Porridge from its original creators, Ian La Frenais and Dick Clement, a fresh episode of the bawdy Frankie Howerd vehicle, Up Pompeii!, as well as a specially constructed prequel to Keeping Up Appearances, crafted by the series’ original writer, Roy Clarke, and introducing us to a young Hyacinth Bucket.The point of this cross-channel bonanza, according to BBC controller of comedy Shane Allen, is finally to give this major part of the corporation’s output its due. Too often, he said, the difficult job of creating an enduring situation comedy is looked down upon in comparison with the business of making drama or documentaries.“People love their sitcoms like nothing else on television, and putting together this season has made me think about what makes shows last,” said Allen, who grew up listening to old episodes of the radio sitcoms Hancock’s Half Hour and The Navy Lark with his grandfather. “These shows are often about misfits, and even grotesques, like Basil Fawlty. It is also shows set in an abstract or historic setting, something like ’Allo ’Allo or Dad’s Army, or even Father Ted, that tend to survive. Others prove too rooted in their own era.”Allen believes there is also a requirement for warmth in the script: “There has to be an identifiable character so that audiences can think they know someone like that.”On BBC4 he is scheduling careful recreations of three classic lost episodes, of Hancock’s Half Hour and Steptoe and Son by Ray Galton and Alan Simpson, and Till Death Us Do Part, by Johnny Speight.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Galton and Simpson’s classic sitcom Hancock’s Half Hour. Photograph: Allstar/BBCThis news has been greeted with joy in some quarters, but dismay in others. The decision to mount such an expensive retrospective season, accompanied by a documentary called British Sitcom: 60 Years Of Laughing At Ourselves, to look at the social and political context, has been robustly defended by Allen as a one-off celebration of the form and just a part of his varied comedy slate.“These days there is such variety in television comedy, with spoofs, comedy thrillers, ‘mockumentaries’, all out there, we can afford to take a look back at the classics,” he said.Sitcoms that demand the same serious respect as a television drama can surely be submitted to some social scrutiny. Perhaps it will ruin the jokes, but it is hard to believe that, after surviving more than 40 years, the punchlines of a show such as Are You Being Served? are so fragile.For Joe Moran, author of Armchair Nation: An Intimate History of Britain in Front of the TV, all sitcoms look “a little anachronistic now”. “They come out of old-fashioned British character comedy and the ones that are currently successful, like Miranda, feel as if they are also commenting on the traditions of those days,” he said.Moran suggests that the essential sitcom set-up always involves people who are stuck, often because of social class. “Things are less socially certain now and so sitcoms tend to be more like soap operas, with a developing plot. TV reflects society, but I also think technical developments shape the way things happen on screen. Cameras go out and about now, and that has taken comedy out of the studio set.”The comedies that appear most fresh and relevant may also be the ones that address our changing social concerns. Viewers may think they are just “funnier”, but perhaps they simply express something easy to identify in themselves or in others.For Neil Pearson, former star of the newsroom comedy Drop the Dead Donkey and the man behind recent radio recreations of lost episodes of Hancock’s Half Hour, it all begins and ends with Hancock’s writers, Galton and Simpson, who invented the British sitcom format in 1956 and created the ultimate “universal” British sitcom character with their eponymous anti-hero. Much like Samuel Beckett’s stage protagonists, Pearson argues, Hancock is busy being left behind by modern society.“Hancock’s Half Hour was new and fresh because it was the first show, up to and including The Goons, which went all the way through without a musical interlude. Galton and Simpson said they had such faith in their characters and in the stories that it would work. This was revolutionary and quite audacious from such young writers.”The show remains, Pearson thinks, the “12 bar blues” of the sitcom, the basis for everything else. The scripts also achieve timelessness because they bear few signs of the limited attitudes to sex, race or colonialism that were common in their era.“When we recorded these scripts we found that nothing needed to be changed apart from one half line, and that was because the use of a phrase had changed,” he said. The third radio series of The Missing Hancocks is due to come to Radio 4 this spring.Allen remains bullish about the backward-looking BBC comedy fest to come, but acknowledges a general air of nostalgia around, with a Dad’s Army film out this year and Star Wars and Bond cinematic outings that also harked back to the originals. “There is a 25-year cycle for such nostalgia,” said the 43-year-old, “so that when I was young people were watching Happy Days, a show about the 50s.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hugh Dennis with his on-screen family in Outnumbered. Photograph: Colin Hutton/BBCFor actor Hugh Dennis, star of the BBC hit Outnumbered, the theory that a successful show mirrors the concerns of the audience makes sense. “Sitcoms certainly reflect their times, although I doubt it is a deliberate process. In the 60s The Likely Lads, for example, was about Rodney Bewes’s upwardly-mobile character, Bob, who wanted to be an executive, and his friend Terry, who wanted to stay true to his working-class roots. It was about the building of a postwar Newcastle. And in Steptoe and Son, Harry H Corbett’s character dreams of escape into a groovy, modern world. Those social changes feed the humour, in the same way that so much 19th-century rural literature is set at that moment when the railways threatened a peaceful life.”Dennis suspects other sitcoms, such as Are You Being Served?, revolved around the vanishing hierarchies of working life. “In fact the success of The Office proves that,” he said, “because Ricky Gervais’s David Brent wants to be liked by his staff and to be seen as young. Even Fawlty Towers was about a disappearing social hierarchy to a certain extent because of the funny deference he would show to any authority figure, something that just seems strange today.”Outnumbered, for Dennis, necessarily arrived on television screens “in an age of self-help books and general angst about parenting” where couples discuss their children in a way previous generations never have.The key component in British sitcom, the actor believes, is a central character who is a “loser”. “I don’t know whether that is about the loss of empire, or about our national character,” he said.For Pearson, a good sitcom series should also provide “an accurate snapshot” of an era.Whether the sitcom will live on, or becomes the archetypal dead frog of over-analysed comedy, is not yet sure. The content will have to adapt, even if the format survives. Any future revival of Drop the Dead Donkey, said Pearson, would have to focus on journalists who are dodging heavy regulation and clinging on to their jobs, while Dennis predicts the next successful family-centred sitcom will tell the story of those 35-year-old children who are still living at home.