In the last instalment of this weeklong series, an anonymous writer shares the most painful part of his marriage: the moment it all fell apart.What if the moment your marriage is over is a discovery forced upon you when your marriage has only just begun? It was a beautiful summer’s day and I was waiting for my wife of only five months to come home. Rather than sit around, I decided to go out and buy something nice for lunch.The moment our marriage was over: 'I saw a complete lack of kindness' When I got back from the market, my wife was back and I could tell at once that she was in a bad mood. When she got angry I knew to leave her alone until she was ready to talk. So I started making lunch, and she made herself scarce.Eventually she reappeared and I asked her what was wrong. “Nothing,” she replied. A few minutes later, the atmosphere thick with tension, I asked her again. “I’ve made a mistake in marrying you. I can’t live with you.” And with those few words, she destroyed my life.•••We were both in late middle age, both of us with failed marriages behind us. I hadn’t expected to find love again – I hadn’t been looking for it and, if I’m honest, I would have said at the time that “falling in love” was something that happened to my children, not to people approaching their dotage.But fall in love I did, and it was overwhelming. It wasn’t the love so much as the falling that was the problem. Without realising it, I had made her front and centre of my life. I’ve always been a hopeless romantic – I recall at school being struck by the idea of courtly love in Chaucer; the noble purity of it, the sublimation of self to a higher ideal, that of the love of another.I believe that she had fallen in love with me too. She was much less demonstrative, much more guarded, but the few things she did say led me to think that her feelings matched my own – at any rate we seemed to coexist very intensely. The happiness I felt when she agreed to marry me was only matched by the happiness I felt when she walked into the register office.We’d been together as a couple for some years before the wedding, but we hadn’t lived together. With the benefit of hindsight I can see that while we were well-suited as lovers, we were entirely unsuited as housemates. We should have continued as we were, dating and living apart. I moved out the same day as she delivered her bombshell, back to my old apartment that I had been trying to sell since the day of the wedding (luckily for me, the housing market had flatlined). The moment our marriage was over: 'I had to tell him that I loved someone else' The following day I asked her if she had meant it. She texted me. “I’m sorry, but I’ve made up my mind.” I asked to see her, to discuss it. She agreed but refused to say when.A week of unendurable pain and anxiety later, she contacted me to say that we should meet. I cannot describe how frantic I was, how desperate my desire to save my marriage, which had been so precious and, I had thought, invulnerable. The encounter lasted 10 minutes, during which I learnt nothing, except that she was still angry. Her last words as she left were: “For what it’s worth, I am sorry.”I haven’t spoken to her since. Although we both live in the same town, I’ve only actually seen her three times, and two of those times she was in a car. We are now divorced.I’ve come, over time, to understand that she had discovered that living with me was too claustrophobic, that I had failed to meet her expectations, that I turned out to be a better boyfriend than a husband. I too had recognised that our life together wasn’t perfect, but I hadn’t minded. I had wanted our union to work, come what may.I realise now that while what she did was entirely forgivable, the way she did it was less so, even though I have now forgiven her. Life’s too short to hold a grudge, for one thing. Hemingway put it very well: “The most painful thing is losing yourself in the process of loving someone too much, and forgetting that you are special too.”