In mid-February, the ministry of environment and forests virtually approved six hydropower dams. This is the latest in an 18-month-long debate on the ecological impact of dams in Uttarakhand.In June 2013, floods severely damaged parts of the state. About 6,000 people died, and tens of thousands of pilgrims were stranded. The disaster destroyed six villages, buried dozens of others in silt, and wrecked highways. Within days of the disaster, environmentalists and villagers alleged dams aggravated the disaster. When reservoirs brimmed over the danger mark, dam operators opened the sluice gates without warning villagers living downstream. The unexpected deluge washed away people, livestock, and buildings. Dynamite used to blast tunnels destabilised mountain slopes causing numerous landslides.The state plans to build at least 197 dams across the river Ganges and its tributaries. Environmentalists say dams are being built “bumper to bumper,” with tail waters of one flowing into the reservoir of another downstream project in many places. In the Alaknanda-Bhagirathi alone, which already has 45 large and small dams and 29 under construction, 96 more are being proposed.Officials of Tehri Hydropower Development Corporation claimed that the Tehri dam prevented the total destruction of Rishikesh town and the partial destruction of Haridwar. The dam, the highest in India and the tallest in the world, apparently held back the Bhagirathi. But Himanshu Thakkar of South Asia Network for Dams, Rivers and People argued the dam merely postponed flooding by a day.At least 10 large dams were damaged and 19 small ones destroyed. Boulders tumbling down the slopes, smashed pipes and blasted huge holes in concrete dams, while water inundated turbine rooms. Two months after the floods, while delivering the final order on a long-running case against the 330 megawatt Srinagar hydropower project on the Alaknanda, the supreme court issued a moratorium on dam construction in the state. It wanted an expert committee to investigate if dams in the state caused environmental degradation and exacerbated flooding and review 24 hydel projects on the Alaknanda and Bhagirati rivers that the wildlife institute of India had vetoed for causing irreparable ecological damage. These dams, with a combined capacity of 2,900 megawatts, need nearly 10,000 hectares (24,710 acres) of land and will submerge 3,600 hectares of forests.In April 2014, the 11-member-committee, chaired by Ravi Chopra, appointed by the ministry under orders from the supreme court, said dams had significantly exacerbated flooding. It recommended 23 of the 24 projects be cancelled and agreed with the wildlife institute that the dams would severely damage biodiversity. On 6 December 2014, the government filed an affidavit accepting dams aggravated the impact of floods. The state government threw a fit, claiming the expert committee was prejudiced and its report had no “scientific logic.” Three years before the disaster, the comptroller and auditor general of India conducted a performance audit of hydel projects in the state. Its report is a long litany of faults – most dams had made no provisions for flash floods, some didn’t have the necessary approvals, and a few dumped muck on riverbanks or riverbeds. It criticised the state for pursuing hydropower “indiscriminately” and faulted the central government for lack of oversight.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stranded pilgrims waiting to be rescued at Govind Ghat, Uttarakhand. Photograph: Manan Vatsyayana/AFP/Getty ImagesWhile the case played out in the supreme court, the residents of Srinagar town dragged a power company to the national green tribunal that adjudicates on environmental issues. They claim GVK, the infrastructure company building the Srinagar hydropower dam, raised the level of the riverbed by dumping muck from the dam construction into it. Additionally, the power company opened the sluice gates at 3am without first warning people asleep downstream. After the floods receded, parts of Srinagar town lay buried in 3 to 9 metres of sludge. The residents wanted the company to compensate their loss. Similar allegations have been made about other dams.Power companies appealed to the supreme court to allow construction of dams in the upper Ganga basin. Despite the allegations of people against hydel power companies, the auditor-general’s report slamming the companies and the government, and the expert committee’s scathing review of 24 dams, the judges asked the ministry to re-examine six specific projects that had already been vetoed by the expert committee.The ministry put together a team of four experts. This second committee said although the projects had all the clearances, most of them had been granted long before the June 2013 floods. The disaster had changed the project sites physically and therefore needed comprehensive re-assessment. It also pointed out that the impact of the dams hadn’t been studied cumulatively with existing dams or those scheduled for construction in the future. It said, [The] committee is of the view that the six projects may not be taken up as they have potential of causing significant impacts on the biodiversity, riverine system, wildlife and other fragile ecosystems in the areas where these projects are located due to altered hydrological parameters. As such, the entire process of according clearances to these processes warrants review.”Without revealing a word about the misgivings of this second committee, on 18 February, the ministry told the court that the six hydropower projects had all the requisite clearances. The tone of the enquiries by the supreme court and the responses of the ministry changed dramatically over time. A court that proactively sought to know the role played by dams in a natural disaster grew focused on the fortunes of six specific dams. A ministry that acknowledged the devastation caused by dams fed only select portions of an expert critique to the court.With a belligerent state intent on pursuing hydropower at all costs, it’s only a matter of time before more dams are built with little or no regulatory oversight or safeguards against natural disaster.