It’s not technically true that Anne Glover, the chief scientific officer to the European Union, has been sacked for her support of GM crops. The post has been shot out from under her, as Greenpeace and other opponents of GM have been urging.It is, in any case, wrong that this should have happened. Scientists should not be punished for their professional opinions. That is true whether or not these are convenient to the powerful. To sack a scientist for her opinions about GM crops is every bit as wrong as it would be to sack one for their opinions about climate change or – as with David Nutt – about drug liberalisation.This isn’t to say that scientists are always right, or that their opinions should decide policy. Outside their areas of expertise ,scientists can be quite as wrong as anyone else – often more wrong, because they believe they are right.Even within their area of expertise, scientists can be wrong – in fact they are certain to be wrong about some things. The trouble is that neither we nor they can know precisely what they’re wrong about, and how.It is a bit like the advertising man who complained that he knew half his money was wasted – he just didn’t know which half. Unlike advertising, science does make useful progress, but this does not diminish the area of uncertainty so much as move it to new questions.Nor is there a clear scientific procedure for determining how much of what we think we reliably know is, in fact, reliable. To know that requires judgment, which is a quality that can’t be quantified reliably. So the chief qualification of a chief scientific officer is not scientific excellence in a particular field – although that’s also necessary so that they can understand those who excel in other fields – but judgment. And once you have chosen someone for their judgment, you must trust it.If the job of a scientific adviser were only to give advice on questions where the science was settled beyond reasonable doubt, we would not need to have one at all.That’s why the Greenpeace assault really worries me. For the organisation claims – disingenuously, I suspect – that the problem lies not with the advice given by Anne Glover but with the existence of a post in which any scientist gets to exercise their judgment in such an unfettered manner.Instead they want the post replaced by a greater diversity of opinions. This is bravely contrarian even for Greenpeace: it’s hard to think of any other body that feels that what the EU needs for better decision-making is another committee that can be stuffed with special interests.Neither scientists nor politicians are infallible. And in a democracy we trust politicians rather than scientists to make decisions partly because we have a means for discovering and punishing their mistakes by voting them out of office. That kind of punishment for unpopularity should not be applied to scientists, whose work should be judged on quite different criteria. In the end, the sacking of Anne Glover undermines respect for both science and democracy.