On 29 June, the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences released its list of film-makers, artists and executives invited to join its ranks, and eventually play a part in who walks away with an Oscar. The Academy invited 683 potential members, its largest and most diverse class ever. While this was an important move toward the inclusion of more marginalized communities within the Academy, it is merely one step on a longer journey.While reviewing the list of invitees, I was struck by the names of individuals that I believe should have been Academy members long ago. Melvin van Peebles, Kiyoshi Kurosawa, Euzhan Palcy and others have amassed such a significant body of work through the years that the 2016 list of invitees was clearly, in part, righting a wrong. These and other omissions speak to one of the concerns I voiced when discussing #OscarsSoWhite, the hashtag I created: the way in which individuals are nominated to the Academy must be reviewed and revamped so that deserving potential members are not overlooked due to overly stringent rules.Oscars new members: eight things we learned from the 2016 invite list I applaud the effort of the Cheryl Boone Isaacs, the Academy’s president, to diversify its ranks. With 283 invitees from 59 countries, the Academy demonstrates its recognition of amazing talent outside of our borders that should be welcomed. Misan Sangay, Trinh T Minh-ha, and Souleymane Cissé are all examples of international film-makers who have been invited to join the Academy.It is important to note that not just the acting categories have been diversified. Importantly, casting directors, producers, and directors, those who have significant influence over who works on a film, both in front of and behind the camera, have also seen their ranks become more inclusive.Overall, the numbers look impressive: this is the largest and most diverse invitation class ever. Of the invitees, 46% are women and 41% are people of color. But when one does a deeper analysis, the results leave something to be desired. More than 300 of the invited members are women. But even if they all accept, the percentage of women in the Academy increases by just 2%, from 25% to 27%. This is significantly less than the overall representation of women in this country. Similarly, 280 people of color were invited to join the Academy, but their acceptance will only increase the ranks by 3%, to 11% from 8%. This is in stark contrast to recent US census numbers indicating that people of color are 37% of the United States population, and growing.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Righting wrongs? Japanese director Kiyoshi Kurosawa was included on the list of potential members. Photograph: Gabriel Bouys/AFP/Getty ImagesWhat is concerning is that the Academy’s Board of Governors committed to doubling the number of women and diverse members in its ranks by 2020. While the Academy may reach that goal with respect to people of color – in part because the number that they’ve committed to double was merely 8% to start with – it does not appear to have moved strongly enough this year with respect to women. To double the female ranks from 25% to 50% by 2020, each year must see approximately a 5% increase. This year the increase was just 2%. It begs the question: is the Academy being reactionary to appease the outcry buoyed by conversations amplified by #OscarsSoWhite, without thinking through how it would execute its stated goals?While the Academy should be applauded for this step in the right direction, it’s overall numbers are still disappointing. Even with the new class of 683 members, the Academy remains 73% male and 89% white. Although the youngest invitee this year is 24, the average age of Academy members is still in the 60s. With these statistics, it would not be surprising if the 2017 Oscar nominees are not as inclusive of marginalized communities as one would hope; not enough has changed. Importantly, the voting structure of the Academy has not changed at last report. Astoundingly, Academy members are not required to view the performances in the various categories before voting. This turns on its head my view that awards should be based on merit. There can be no merit-based system if members aren’t watching the films to judge their merit. Therefore, without change to the voting structure, Academy members will continue to use some other criteria for selecting their winners that may amount to little more than a popularity contest. This is untenable for an award held in such high regard that has the power to influence career trajectory.I salute the 2016 Academy invitees and hope they will maintain the push for inclusion of marginalized communities from inside the organization. Until this is no longer an issue, until there is a wealth of films that showcase the nuance and complexity of all marginalized communities, whether it is based on sexual orientation, disability, race, ethnicity, gender identity, or First Nation status, I will continue to fight.