Born in New Jersey, Amy Lamé moved to London in 1992. Three years later, she co-founded the cabaret club night and performance artist collective Duckie, which won an Olivier award for its 2003 performance C’est Barbican!. Lamé continues to host Duckie’s Saturday event at the Royal Vauxhall Tavern, south London, and she DJs at various club nights around the capital. She has appeared on TV shows such as BBC2’s Gaytime TV and ITV’s Loose Women, her radio work includes BBC London and 6 Music and she co-presents queer cultural podcast HomoLab. In 2010-11 she was Camden’s ceremonial mayoress, and in November 2016 she was announced by the London mayor, Sadiq Khan, as the city’s first night tsar, a role created to safeguard the capital’s night-time economy.1 | Gig Christine and the Queens, O2 Academy Brixton, London      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘This is nothing like I’ve ever seem’: Christine and the Queens at the O2 Academy Brixton. Photograph: Richard Isaac/Rex/ShutterstockThis is the last gig I went to, just before I started the night tsar job. I came across her albums in France and she absolutely blew my mind. I gave her her first UK airplay on 6 Music in 2014, which I’m very proud about. It’s great now that she’s hit the big time. When I saw her live, I thought this is like nothing I’ve ever seen: contemporary dance mixed with a big light show. It’s an entire artistic vision. It’s not sequenced and showbiz style – there are no sequins. It’s different from what you’d expect from a pop star. She gets quite emotional on stage, the audience gets emotional as well and it’s a beautiful moment we all share.2 | Ballet Anastasia, Royal Opera House, London      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It is is disturbing and brutal’: Anastasia performed by the Royal Ballet. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianI love ballet, probably because it’s one thing I could never, ever humanly do. Watching the dancers takes you into a completely different space. I find it really helpful for working out problems. Most of the music is by Tchaikovsky, and it’s choreographed by Kenneth MacMillan. The first two-thirds are classical ballet, so pretty and lovely, then at the end, when Anastasia is in a mental institution, there’s German expressionist modern dance. It jars because it is disturbing and brutal. It’s so demanding for the prima ballerina. You have to be an incredible dancer and proficient in so many kinds of dance.3 | Film Mean Streets, BFI, London      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It’s a very sad, sexy film’: Robert De Niro and Harvey Keitel in Mean Streets. Photograph: Everett Collection/Rex FeaturesThis is a film I’ve seen many times, but it’s something I’m really looking forward to seeing again because the BFI has its Scorsese season beginning in January. I could not be more excited about it as he’s one of my favourite film directors. The season is also showing some films that have influenced him, a strand he has programmed. His new film, Silence, is debuting as part of the season, but I’ve chosen Mean Streets because it’s one of his earliest films and you can see how it’s influenced every film he’s done. It also made me fall in love with Harvey Keitel. It’s just a very sad, sexy film.4 | App Stop, Breathe & Think      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Pay a little extra and get kd lang guiding you through meditation’: the Stop, Breathe & Think app.This is a mindfulness meditation app put together by a charitable education foundation in the US, where they teach kids in inner-city schools simple meditation techniques. There are lots of different options: things for anxiety, for getting a positive outlook on the day. The one for falling asleep is amazing – it really does the trick. The bonus is that kd lang is involved in the project, so you can pay a little extra and get her helping you do guided meditation through your earphones. It’s like pouring chocolate and honey into your ears. I also love Duolingo – I’ve been trying to learn some simple Polish phrases on it and I’ve not been very successful, but it’s a lot of fun.5 | Radio WNYC      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It’s always a great collection of people and topics’: David Remnick, editor of the New Yorker. Photograph: Laura Barisonzi for the GuardianI’m addicted to radio and have been since I was a child. I think in every photo my parents have of me, I have a little yellow transistor radio glued to my ear. WNYC is the national public radio station for New York and I listen to it via a phone app. I find it interesting to hear the kinds of things that matter to New Yorkers in their city life. A couple of broadcasters, in particular, are superb: Brian Lehrer, who has a political programme, and David Remnick, editor of the New Yorker magazine, who presents The New Yorker Radio Hour. It’s always a great collection of people and topics.6 | Bar The Society Club, Soho, London      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘This is a bookshop during the day, and at six o’clock turns into a cocktail bar’: The Society Club, Soho. Photograph: D Hurst/AlamyA friend said to me: “I’m taking you for poetry and Corpse Revivers.” I thought, OK. This is a bookshop during the day and at six o’clock turns into a cocktail bar. Friday night is poetry, but unlike any other show I’ve been to. Every 10 minutes, someone will stand up, the room will go quiet, they’ll read a poem for a minute or two, and then sit down and everyone carries on drinking. Another 10 minutes later, somebody else stands up and does the same thing. It punctuates the conversation in such a lovely way; the cocktails are amazing, too. It’s one of those hidden places you think don’t exist any more – but this one does.7 | Show Bourgeois & Maurice, Soho theatre. London      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘To call them cabaret doesn’t really describe it’: Bourgeois & Maurice. Photograph: Christa HolkaThey’re the most acerbic cabaret. To call them cabaret doesn’t really describe it because the lyrics are so acidic, biting, political and satirical. It’s clever, super-politicised cabaret. Their appearance is quite whimsical – they’re dressed in sequin onesies and huge wigs – which contrasts with the message. They sing songs about how we could save the world but we’re all just too busy, we haven’t got the time. It’s very topical. They’ve written a great, sad song about Brexit, British Values, their version of a national anthem, which is quite shocking, but so truthful. I suggested they release it as a single.