In a year in which independent bookshops continue to struggle in the UK, we are loving the career change that has led Judy Blume to become an independent bookseller. In the US, indies are flourishing, and we’re hoping that passion (and business) will spread around the world. What better time to start sharing the love than in Independent Booksellers Week, an annual reminder of how precious well-stocked bookshops, run by enthusiastic and knowledgeable staff, are to our cultural life. Our readers have started by recommending ten fantastic independent booksellers around the world. Keep them coming in the comments or on GuardianWitness.1. This neatly ordered shop in central Victoria (Australia)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “This is my local secondhand bookshop. Mount of Alex stocks quality and rare books on all kinds of topics and many genres of fiction. It has beautiful polished timber floors, a leather couch and massive solid wood bookcases. It does not smell musty or dusty. You can saunter around undisturbed as if in a library. You do not have to get on your hands and knees – or fly – to avoid piles of almost tipping over columns of books as you do in some second hand bookshops. The books are neatly ordered and the shop well-frequented by a highly literate and cultured local population, many of whom are writers themselves – so it is a venue for special book and author events.” –AnitraNelsonName: Mount of AlexLocation: 273 Barker Street, Castlemaine, Victoria 3450, AustraliaFind more information here2. This old chaotic store in London – though it’s now evolved It’s great that the biggest bookshop in London is an independent, and even better that they’ve now sorted themselves out so you can actually find what you’re looking for there. How many of you worked at Foyles in Charing Cross Road back when it was still chaotic and un-computerised and everybody could expect to get the sack after at most a year? And being interviewed personally by Mrs Foyle in her private penthouse on the top of the building ... I spent the summer of 1997 in the Drama dept, those were the days! –Laudrup10Note that the bookshop has recently moved to a new location (on the same road) and is incredibly orderly. But its customers will always remember its fantastic former mess. Here’s a “then” picture...      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Customers browsing in Foyles, 1955. Photograph: Alex Dellow/Getty ImagesAnd now:      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The new and shiny bookshop. Photograph: Matthew Chattle / Alamy/AlamyName: Foyles Location: 107 Charing Cross Rd, London WC2H 0DT, UKFind more information here3. This bookstore-meets-library in Mumbai True to its title, this word-paradise brings forth the bests of the writer within, satisfies the devouring reader and bridges one to the world of ideas that are books.The library is a much welcomed first - the collection is curated around its members and their literary love interests. An initial interview with the founders and a few recommendations later, one finds a thoughtful range of reading for children, adults and the rest of us.Nestled close to the centre of the city, Trilogy has a charter of events that fosters a sense of community. Critics, connoisseurs and curators of the written word come together each month against the backdrop of a vibrant wildlife exhibit of photographs on one side and an adjacent sheet of foliage that peeks in at the readers through the glass windows. It’s a library one enjoys sharing with friends, guests and colleagues. –Shradhdha Shah      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Meethil MomayaName: TrilogyLocation: 1st floor, Building No 28, Raghuvanshi Mills Compound, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel (west), Mumbai 400013, IndiaFind more information here4. This small town that is basically one huge bookshop Although it’s very obvious, and also not technically a (single) bookshop: Hay. A worthy trip for anyone into books of any description. If you’re going for the book shops, it’s best to do it as a separate trip when the festival’s not on. Takes a few days to do it properly – a long weekend in a B&B with nothing but books and country walks is very much advised. –Cubano1      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Books, books, books in picturesque Hay. Photograph: Martin Godwin for the GuardianName: Hay-on-WyeLocation: Powys, WalesFind more information here5. This staple of Washington DC literary life  They are the IN spot in DC. If you write a book, this is where you want to introduce it and a new book seems to be introduced every day (three on Sundays). They seem to have figured out that the way to keep a bookstore in business these days is to make it a community center: classes, book groups, children’s activities AND it’s where President Obama shops for his Christmas presents! –ajproc (via email)Name: Politics and ProseLocation: 5015 Connecticut Ave NW, Washington, D.C. 20008, USAFind more information here6. This old printing factory in Lisbon“This is the bookshop in LX Factory, Lisbon. It used to be a print works and the presses are still in situ,” shared drexler19.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: GuardianWitnessName: Ler Devagar Location: Rua Rodrigues Faria, 103. 1300-501 Lisbon, PortugalFind more information here7. This indie in New Zealand where they import books across oceans for you I lived there for 22 years and is was the only shop I went to willingly and for no reason other than to browse. The staff are great. The atmosphere is great. The selection is great and they will order anything they don’t have. And in NZ, independent bookstores are hard to find. –Eamonn Morrissey (via email)Name: Unity BooksLocation: Willbank House 57 Willis St, Wellington 6011, New ZealanFind more information hereSee pictures here8. This green literary haven in Budapest It feels like a second home for me and for most of its domestic & international visitors. It’s a community, people go there to give or take language lessons. Or to spend hours alone to read a book or press real or virtual keys of their devices that are used to connect the internet. The mood is invigorating. Massolit has a garden, I assume it is something unique. You may want to sit there for any purpose. To find tranquility on your own or to have a discussion with friends, sipping a cup of tea or or a glass of wine, leaving the world behind. The cakes are splendid and their coffee is legendary, the so trendy high-end kind. And the books. I always find something interesting, as they have a huge selection, including a significant variety written by Hungarians, translated to English. Massolit is also hosting exciting cultural events, frequently with live music. If you are visiting Budapest or learning or working in the country, it is a sin to miss it. – Zoltan Szombathelyi (via email)Name: MassolitLocation: Nagy Diófa u. 30, 1072 Budapest, HungaryFind more information hereSee pictures here 9. This shop that is getting ready for the end of the world Though it’s received quite a bit of global press (see Paris Review or the Guardian’s interview with its booksellers), this vast, museum-like bookseller is strangely absent from your list. It features several idiosyncratically designed spaces, well-stocked with multifarious titles, new and used. It’s at the epicenter of the urban renewal happening now in the historic core. –Estupido      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: GuardianWitnessName: The Last Bookstore Location: 453 S Spring St, Los Angeles, CA 90013, USAFind more information here10. This store in a bus stop in Terband, the Netherlands At this bus stop along a dead-end road, not only do you get picked up and dropped off by the bus, you can also browse a small selection of books and pick the one you like best. And the best part of all: paying is optional and entirely up to you! The people of this tiny village have turned the bus stop into a cosy living room-like space, decorated with flowers, art work and even a big clock. It marks the slow passing of time during the long waits for the bus. I found this place by accident when I was visiting the church and cemetery of Terband looking for traces of my ancestors. –ID2813793      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: GuardianWitnessName: None knownLocation: Terband, Friesland, The Netherlands 