Damian Lewis has rounded on opponents of his participation in the 50th anniversary celebrations of a north London comprehensive, telling the assembled crowd that the critics “miss the point”.A number of alumni of Acland Burghley school had taken against the appearance of the Hollywood star on Wednesday evening, saying the Old Etonian did not “represent the real Burghley values” and therefore should not be part of such a landmark celebration.Speaking to hundreds of parents and children outside the school just before the beginning of a light show, Lewis paid homage to the school, mentioning former alumni such as the musicians Ms Dynamite and Eddy Grant.#RealBurghley isn’t about Damian Lewis or class war. It’s about our brilliant school | Rachel Cohen and Harriet Yudkin “For those who were hoping to see Eddy Grant or Ms Dynamite I can only give my apologies – I was the only one available,” he said to laughs.“And to those people who wrote to the newspapers, very kindly suggesting that I should not be here, I think that they miss the point slightly because it seems that this event is about more than that. It’s about celebrating our community and the role the school has played here in Tufnell Park for the last 30 years.”Lewis said that he was a “proud member” of the Tufnell Park community, which he said was home to more creativity than any neighbourhood he had lived in. The school allowed boys and girls to engage their creative faculties and “think for themselves”, he added.billybeckett (@billyfbeckett)@Eddy_Grant were you invited to Acland Burghley's 50th bday tonight? https://t.co/J1NzxuqMYVJanuary 27, 2016Rachel Cohen, a sociology lecturer at City University who went to the school in the 1980s, had organised an online petition against Lewis’s appearance, which was signed by about 100 people. She said the school could have invited one of its well-known former students rather than Lewis.“At the moment there is a public debate about whether the acting profession is too elitist, with Eton-educated people very much in the public eye. This is another reason we should be celebrating Acland Burghley’s achievements even more,” she told the Camden New Journal.Cohen added that when she approached the school to ask why Lewis was the star attraction rather than a former Acland Burghley pupil such as Grant and Ms Dynamite, she was told they had not been able to secure Burghley-educated celebrities in time.“When I went there it wasn’t considered especially good academically,” she told the Journal, “but it had an amazing art department and the teachers had a sense of social and political purpose. There was a pride and belief in comprehensive education as inclusive and benefiting the whole community. These values, perhaps more than anything else, are what it gave me.”Cohen and her fellow petition organiser Harriet Yudkin are asking for alumni to share their views and memories using the hashtag #RealBurghley. Several have tweeted their support for Cohen.Anna Feuchtwang (@AnnaFeuchtwang)This makes me proud of @Acland_Burghley students past and present. https://t.co/bAkP3OYDbDJanuary 26, 2016Among the alumni in the crowd outside the school on Wednesday evening was Lewis Durham – from the band Kitty, Daisy & Lewis – who said that he was not concerned about the row.He said: “It’s just a laugh, isn’t it? It’s not hurting anyone. There are people out there getting killed on the battlefield at the moment. People should be more concerned with other things to be honest.”  Acland Burghley ‏@Acland_Burghley Huge thanks to @lewis_damian for his time & support, seen here with a very happy Ms Adams-Heath! #LightUpBurghley. Photograph: TwitterThe headteacher, Nicholas John, said the anniversary party was just one of a number of celebrations scheduled and they would include a wide variety of people. Lewis lives in Tufnell Park, where Acland Burghley is located.He told the Journal: “Damian Lewis very kindly agreed to open the light show for us, to give up an evening of his time. The school he went to is of no consequence.“We are planning to hold a series of other events over the next two years and we will be inviting many other people to take part. I cannot expand on who was or was not invited, and we do have a large number of prestigious alumni. However, our school community extends to people living in our neighbourhood.”In 2014, 57% of all pupils attained five GCSEs grade A to C including English and mathematics, placing Acland Burghley’s result in the bottom 40% of similar schools’ results, and in the middle 20% of all schools. In November, the school confirmed that two of its former pupils had travelled to Syria to fight with Islamic State.A survey conducted by Goldsmiths University and the arts organisation Create in November concluded that the UK’s creative industries were dominated by middle-class people. The findings prompted leading figures to express their concerns that the lack of diversity meant the arts were becoming the preserve of the rich.