We all need a few good smoothie recipes in our breakfast repertoire. There are three on rotation in my house most of the time. A pleasing but subtle green one, a vibrant fruity one, and one that works as a smoothie bowl for days when drinking my breakfast doesn’t seem right.I have also included a choose-your-own-adventure flavour map. The balance of a smoothie is a very individual thing – this guide should ensure your smoothies are both energising and delicious.If you are a less experienced cook, smoothies are a good way of experimenting with balancing different flavours without putting too much at stake – a skill that can then be rolled out across the rest of your cooking. If you are a more experienced smoothie maker, then I hope this week’s recipes might provide a couple of new tweaks.A good smoothie is all about getting the ratio right, I break my smoothie recipes into five parts. I usually stick to one main flavour, which makes the base of my smoothie (two parts); an accent (one part); and then a liquid or ice component (two parts). Finally, I like to add an extra kick of flavour, a mellowing creaminess or some balancing sweetness or acidity. Keep adding and balancing until you have a smoothie that tastes great and is the thickness you like to drink – or eat (such as in the recipe below).Summer beetroot, raspberry and vanilla smoothie bowlThe consistency of this smoothie is just a little thicker: you’ll need a spoon to eat it. The bowl creates a wider surface area, which provides the perfect canvas for generous scatterings of texture and flavour.Serves 23 prunes, soaked in 100ml hot water1 small beetroot, peeled and chopped125g raspberries150g strawberriesJuice and zest of ½ a lemon50g oats1 tsp vanilla extract120ml water or milk of your choiceA few ice cubesToppings Frozen raspberriesPomegranate seedsRaw almond butter/cashew butterHemp seedsAlmonds1 Soak the prunes in water for as long as you have time for – even overnight if you remember.2 Pour the soaked prunes and their liquid into a blender. Add all the remaining ingredients and blitz on high until completely smooth. Taste and adjust the sweetness, adding a little more vanilla or lemon as desired.3 Pour the contents into a bowl and scatter over your toppings.A friendly green smoothieDespite their ubiquity, green smoothies are really worth considering if you’re looking for a quick, delicious and enlivening breakfast. When I’m in green smoothie mode, here’s what I think about: I want it to be filling, energising and nutritious. I like my smoothie to be packed with greens – so vibrant in colour and velvety in texture. Flavour is always the most important factor for me – I can’t drink something that tastes too worthy. Kale (like other greens) can have a bitter note; balancing the ratio of greens with a little sweetness is what makes a green smoothie.Serves 2150g ripe pineapple, peeled1 banana, peeledA large handful of kale, spinach or other greens (frozen works too)½ an avocadoJuice of 1 lime1 tbsp almond butterA small thumb of fresh ginger, grated250ml coconut water or waterA handful of ice1 Roughly chop the pineapple and add it to a blender along with the rest of the ingredients.2 Blend on a high speed until completely smooth. Taste and adjust the spiciness to your liking by adding more ginger, if necessary.3 Pour into two glasses. Serve chilled.Sunshine mango and turmericThis is the smoothie I make when I need a lift in the morning. If goji berries are not something you usually buy, you can leave them out, but I urge you to try them – they taste like slightly sour and more piquant raisins.Serves 21 ripe mango, stone removed1 tsp goji berries (optional)1 tsp fresh ginger, grated½ tsp ground turmeric or 1 tsp fresh turmeric, grated250ml orange juice or coconut waterA good grinding of black pepperA handful of ice1 Put all the smoothie ingredients into a blender, then blitz it all together on a high speed until it has become completely smooth. Taste and adjust the flavours to your liking, then add the ice and blitz again.2 Pour the smoothie into two glasses. Serve chilled.Flavour map1 Start with a hero flavour (2/5ths)Greens (kale, lettuce, spinach, spring greens), banana, mango, pineapple, peach, blueberries, cherries, pear, avocado, persimmon, papaya, apricots strawberries, raspberries, courgette, fennel, beetroot, red pepper2 Add an accent flavour (1/5th)(Choose from one ingredient above)3 Add liquid (2/5ths)Water, coconut water, cow’s milk, almond milk (unsweetened), fruit or vegetable juice, drinking yoghurt or kefir, tea (chilled), ice4 Add 1 tbsp of creaminess Nut or seed butter, tahini, oats, chia seeds, flax seeds, yoghurt5 Boost the flavour with a pinch of ...Vanilla, goji berries, fresh grated turmeric, dried spices (ginger, cardamom, turmeric, saffron, cinnamon, nutmeg), fresh grated ginger, nuts, desiccated coconut, seeds, cacao powder or nibs6 For extra sweetnessA soft date, a squeeze of honey, a little maple syrup, one chopped dried fruit (apricot, fig, prune) 7 For extra acidityLemon juice or zest, lime, orange, kiwiAnna Jones is a chef, writer and author of A Modern Way to Eat and A Modern Way to Cook. (Fourth Estate); annajones.co.uk; @we_are_food