When I was growing up, I loved stories about magic. One of the best parts of the fantasy genre is the idea that magic exists in real life. I sometimes feel that a human being can personify this, too – someone who manages to hold on to a tiny bit of something special and then reflect it back to the world.One of the most magic people I know is my mother. She assures me that she has not always been this wonderful, and that she was once a strict disciplinarian, but I don’t believe her. If she was, it would have been at a time before I can remember, before her eldest brother got his hands on a gun and killed himself.We were living in Trinidad when the news came. I have no memory of these events, but they have played in the background throughout my life. My uncle Leslie shot himself in New York – but not before he tried – but failed – to take his girlfriend with him.The American Dream – “Life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness” – hadn’t worked out very well for my uncle. He had moved to New York looking for a new life, but he was struggling. He was unhappy. My mother remembers that the last words she spoke to him were along the lines of, “You’ve got to get your life together. Try harder. Make something of yourself.” You know, that old line. A sentence that begins with “I love you” and is tempered by a “but”.Thinking about it now, I realise how devastated she must have been to get the news that he was gone. When she was seven, her mother had died from an illness that she is still unsure about. Then in her 20s she lost a brother she adored. She remembers my uncle as being infinitely kind and considerate. Until he snapped, that is, and showed that he was also capable of great violence. Against himself and the woman in his life. His death could have broken her. But it didn’t.It changed her – and me as well. My existence as I know it comes at the cost of my uncle’s life. I am who I am because of the person my mother became when he died. She was never able to understand why he had been in so much pain.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sheena Kamal’s mother, Pramatee.My family moved to Canada shortly after the suicide, when I was six. My mother had wanted a fresh start, one where she wasn’t surrounded by the death of her loved ones.She had no guidelines for parenting. After her mother died, her father quickly moved on to start a second family. She has said that, at times, it felt like the abandonment of his first family, that maybe this abandonment led to my uncle’s unsteady frame of mind.Alongside my mother, my brothers and I lived in a bubble of laughter and imagination. It wasn’t us against the world. It was us in spite of the world. The world could do whatever it wanted and it didn’t touch us. It was only when reality intruded that we realised how fragile our bubble was. We didn’t follow the standard immigrant narrative of working ourselves to the bone for someone else’s idea of achievement. We could never explain ourselves to other people, so we simply stopped doing it. It caused fractures. We didn’t care. We knew how fragile happiness could be.Whenever anyone suggested I get a job to pay for university, my mother told me to ignore them and follow my gut instinct. We had no idea how we were going to finance my college education. I applied for a scholarship that no one thought I would receive. My mother was the only one who believed that it was within my grasp. She took the day off work when the application was due, and drove me around to try to get everything in on time. I will never forget rushing into the courier shop with her. We made it just before closing time. As I slid the envelope across the counter, I knew I couldn’t have done any of it without her.That is who she is – rather, who she became. Of course, you can do this crazy thing you want to do! Why not? You are strong, you are pretty, you are smart. You are short, but it shouldn’t be too much of a problem. You’re applying for this big scholarship? You’re going to move across the country to follow your dreams? It all makes perfect sense.It is heady stuff. My mother has never allowed me to believe that the world is somehow against me, that I’m a small cog in a large machine. It has led to an almost absurd level of confidence, for which I have been criticised at times (mostly by the men in my life). I can do anything but cook, because even the unwavering love of my mother can’t hide an unsophisticated palate. I can do anything but plan, because that involves taking myself out of the moment.I don’t know if this disregard for long-term thinking has always been the best choice. I know it has led to my complete lack of desire to explain myself or be understood by anyone but her. I’ve learned the hard lesson that to pursue happiness, you have to keep people at a distance. I often don’t know how to engage with the world, so just as often I don’t. I know this is selfish to the core, but I am working on it.In the present political climate, where life and liberty seem to be under threat, we don’t give a lot of thought to the pursuit of happiness. It seems indulgent, doesn’t it? But there must be some kind of balance. I have experienced the reverberations of despair: they echoed throughout my formative years. Despair can’t be an option. It hurts people in ways that we never see coming.I often think about the woman my uncle tried to kill that night in New York. I don’t know what happened to her – I don’t even know her name – but she almost lost her life because some man, a man who was important to my family, was unhappy. He didn’t just kill himself, he tried to murder a woman, too. Whoever she was, whatever she did, she did not deserve that. I have never forgotten that good people are capable of bad things. And maybe, if we are strong enough, something meaningful can come from the aftermath of tragedy.In Stardust, Neil Gaiman writes about a star that falls to Earth as a woman. She is pure light, the physical embodiment of love. He almost gets it right. There are such people in the world, but they aren’t perfect. They don’t come from the sky. They are the people who step outside of themselves and are able to sift through the bad in order to get to the good. People such as my mother.Sheena Kamal is the author of Eyes Like Mine, published by Bonnier Zaffre, £12.99. To order a copy for £11.04, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.