Owners of a Pennsylvania property that doubled as the “murder dungeon” home of serial killer Buffalo Bill in the Oscar-winning thriller The Silence of the Lambs have reduced the house’s selling price after failing to attract interest from buyers.Scott and Barbara Lloyd put the three-story 19th-century house up for sale in the summer for $300,000, but dropped the asking price to $250,000 last month. The property is the second most-viewed on the website realtor.com, but estate agents have fielded far more interest from journalists than potential buyers.“The fact that a home gets a ton of publicity doesn’t necessarily add up to a quick sale,” the website’s Erik Gunther told the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review. “Just because I want to gawk at something doesn’t mean I want to buy it.”The foyer and dining room of the Lloyds’ home, in a corner of the remote village of Layton, Fayette county – about an hour from Pittsburgh – was used to shoot scenes for The Silence of the Lambs. But it does not feature a dungeon in the basement, with director Jonathan Demme having chosen to shoot those elements on a sound stage. In fact, according to photographs obtained by the Associated Press, the property features a basement with stairs leading down, rather than a dry well in the floor.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   No dungeon ... the doorway and stairs leading to the property’s basement. Photograph: Keith Srakocic/APThe Silence of the Lambs was one of the biggest box-office hits of 1991, taking $272m worldwide (the equivalent of $476m, or £329m, in today’s money) and sweeping the major categories at the following year’s Oscars with five awards. A producer secured the Layton property for scenes involving Buffalo Bill, who kidnaps a US senator’s daughter and keeps her in his basement, with a simple door-knock in 1989.The Lloyds, who have owned the property since 1976, are now hoping that the price reduction will lead to a quick sale. “We got the message out to the curious, but not to the people who are interested in actually buying,” Scott Lloyd told the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review. “We’re finally starting to get a little bit of motion.”