Gary Oldman is a cinema-goer’s dream and a publicist’s nightmare.The revered actor, whose performances as the titular demon in Bram Stoker’s Dracula and as Sex Pistols bassist Sid Vicious in Sid and Nancy stand out because of their singular strangeness, is still among the most exciting actors working today. His strength lies in his ability to make brazen choices and commit to them fully.Spotlight review – Catholic church called to account over child abuse As an interview subject, he’s proven himself to be just as wildly unpredictable and passionate, probably to the horror of his handlers.Who can forget his infamous chat with Playboy in 2014, where Oldman dumped on his sci-fi blockbuster The Fifth Element (“I can’t bear it”), defended Mel Gibson’s antisemitic outbursts (“We’ve all said those things”), let his thoughts be known on the pope (“fuck the pope”), and called the Golden Globes a “meaningless event” that amounts to “90 nobodies having a wank”?Since that interview went viral, the actor has maintained a relatively low public profile, appearing in Dawn of the Planet of the Apes and the period drama Child 44, and keeping his mouth mostly shut in the press.That changed on Friday when Yahoo published a short video with Oldman, pegged to his upcoming thriller Criminal. In the two-minute spot, he doesn’t discuss his new film, instead opting to heap praise upon his involvement in 2011’s John le Carré thriller Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy (the only film of his to net him an Oscar nomination), and then heavily criticise the recent Oscar best picture win for Tom McCarthy’s Spotlight.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gary Oldman in Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy (2011). Photograph: Moviestore/REX/ShutterstockTinker Tailor Soldier Spy was nominated for three Oscars but won none in the end – a fact that clearly still rankles Oldman.Why Spotlight's Oscar win is a great thing for journalism | Alicia Shepard “There’s a sort of pedigree that [Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy] had, I’d like to think, worthy of such an honor,” he says in the clip. “Where so many you see, you kind of go ‘really, they won an Oscar for that?’“If you think of some of the movies that have been nominated over the years for best picture – Gone With the Wind, Lawrence of Arabia – and then you look at Spotlight, and you kind of go, ‘best picture?’ I enjoyed it but, you know, sometimes it gets a little … I just scratch my head in wonder.”Oldman is of course entitled to his opinion - and it’s refreshing he’s gone against the tide to openly lambast his industry’s decision to reward a film he doesn’t believe deserved Hollywood’s highest honor. It’s unfortunate then that his argument – if you can even call it that – doesn’t hold water. If you’re going to come out strongly against Spotlight, a film that many feel merited its win, you had best have a sound enough reason.Citing Gone With the Wind and Lawrence of Arabia as the gold standards by which fellow best picture winners must be matched, is narrow-minded. Oldman seems to be suggesting that best picture winners must be epic in scope and tone to be truly deserving of the award – something Spotlight undoubtedly is not.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In Spotlight, McCarthy tackled the Boston Globe’s Pulitzer-winning investigation into a huge child molestation cover-up within the local Catholic archdiocese, but did so in a micro-manner that focused on the exacting work done by a group of journalists, instead of offering a sensational exposé on the church’s wrongdoings. His approach was uniquely affecting because of its subtlety.Based on what Oldman said, Alejandro González Iñárritu brutal survival thriller The Revenant is the only nominee out of this year’s bunch to fit his best picture template. It’s an ambitiously mounted period epic, made for a lot of money, with a major star turn. Unfortunately it’s also dourly serious, overlong, overwrought and hollow. Yes, it’s astoundingly executed and Leonardo DiCaprio gives it his all – but to what end? In the end, all The Revenant adds up to is another rote revenge picture.Spotlight is also a more vital film – a fact that seems to be lost on Oldman. It proves why true journalism still matters and sheds a needed spotlight on a cover-up that many would rather have ignored. That it succeeds at doing both without hitting its audience over the proverbial head should be celebrated, not discounted.It’s indeed a shame that Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy failed to generate excitement among Academy voters. On top of boasting one of Oldman’s most nuanced performances, Tomas Alfredson’s film is impeccably crafted and ingeniously plotted. But it’s also the type of film the Oscars tend to overlook.Yes, as Oldman stated, Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy has a “sort of pedigree” that demands the Academy’s attention: its ensemble cast includes Colin Firth, Benedict Cumberbatch and John Hurt, and it comes from the Oscar-nominated producer of Atonement and Elizabeth. Its labyrinthine plot, however, left many viewers cold, with its detractors calling it impenetrable – something that no doubt accounted for why it failed to score a best picture nomination. It’s also chilly and calculated, two qualities Oscar doesn’t tend to favor. The Academy are no means great arbiters of taste. Their choice to reward Crash, Paul Haggis’s clumsy racially charged drama over Ang Lee’s landmark gay love story Brokeback Mountain, with a best picture win in 2005, has become notorious. But in awarding Spotlight, the group went against the grain to honor a relatively lo-fi film by today’s standards, that’s classical in nature and deft in tone. Its win should provide hope to Oldman that intelligent adult fare – of which Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy fits the bill – can indeed triumph at Hollywood’s biggest event.