My great nan Elsie was a big part of Christmas in our family. She loved this time of year.As the nights drew in we would make Christmas fairies together and decorate the trees at her sheltered accommodation. On Christmas Day itself she would be with us, exchanging gifts, serving up the dinner, playing games and bringing the love and laughter that made it so special. The thing Nan taught me above all was: 'remember there is always someone, somewhere, you can help' But in 2012 Nan became ill and as December approached her health was deteriorating. When I realised that she would be spending Christmas in hospital, instead of at home with us, I was devastated. So I decided that if Nan couldn’t come to us for Christmas, we would take Christmas to her. With my pocket money I went out to buy gifts and decorations to take to the hospital.Over the course of our visits, it struck me how many others would be spending Christmas away from their loved ones. I began taking in presents for them too. With the help of my family and the support of people in the local area we collected around 250 presents – including toys, toiletries and games – which we gave to the children’s wards and a local care home. Nan was someone people would turn to for help, and I felt happy that we’d been able to help so many others enjoy Christmas too.Nan sadly passed away in March 2013. That was her last Christmas. The thing she taught me above all was: “Always remember that there is always someone, somewhere, you can help. Give them your time and, especially at Christmas, give them love and kindness.”A few months after she died, I launched a Charity Secret Santa campaign in her memory. I started a social media page, spoke to local radio stations, collected donations in supermarkets and got schools and the community involved. We collected 650 gifts that year which we gave to charities, hospices and care homes. It was as if Nan was still with us.The appeal has been getting bigger ever since. In 2014 we delivered more than 2,000 gifts and hosted a tea party for the elderly at Nan’s old flats. Last year we handed out 4,000 presents, distributed food parcels for the homeless and delivered emergency care packages for a women’s refuge.Volunteering is what Christmas is really about Since my last Christmas with Nan, I have met some amazing and inspiring people with wonderful stories to tell. Hopefully I have helped make Christmas a little bit merrier for them. This is what Christmas means to me now. It’s about giving your time and compassion as well as your money.It’s why I was so excited to be this year’s #givingtuesday champion. Doing something good doesn’t have to be a grand expensive gesture. It can be something as simple as popping round for a cup of tea with someone who has been ill, or spending an hour or two volunteering at your local care home. There are hundreds of ways to do something good on #givingtuesday. As Nan would say: “There is always someone, somewhere, you can help”.#givingtuesday is led in the UK by the Charities Aid Foundation. It takes place on the Tuesday in November after Black Friday. This year more than 1,500 UK charities and businesses took part. The day I made a difference is the Guardian Voluntary Sector Network’s series that showcases the work of people involved with charities. If you have a story you want to share, email voluntarysectornetwork@theguardian.com with a short summary of your experience.Talk to us on Twitter via @Gdnvoluntary and join our community for your free Guardian Voluntary Sector monthly newsletter, with analysis and opinion sent direct to you on the first Thursday of the month. 