Hip-hop stars such as Future and Kanye West may have weirded out the rap mainstream significantly over the last few years, but for all their mini-dress wearing, fashion-designing, cough-medicine-chugging appeal, they’ll have to go pretty far to outweird Kool Keith, a rapper of some 58 alter egos who, for the last 30 or so years, has stood at the front of the hip-hop weirdstream, quietly sabotaging his own career as he goes.Keith first came to prominence as a member of Ultramagnetic MCs, a revered New York rap group who somehow never quite turned critical acclaim and cult status into full-blown commercial success. The group’s sound was a riot of golden age-style dusty funk samples and heavyweight scratching, topped off by Ced-Gee’s brilliantly stentorian vocals and Keith’s already outlandish rap style, a tightly packed, metaphor-heavy polyrhythmic maze of scientific imagery, internal rhyme, casual boasts and narrative. “I’m sendin’, brains are bendin’ / Like metal, crust to rust corrode / and low stacks, pick up the wax while you ask / how you do it, show me through it,” runs one particularly dense group of lines from When I Burn, the penultimate track on Critical Beatdown, the group’s classic debut album – a record that also houses (on Give the Drummer Some) the infamous “Change my pitch up / Smack my bitch up” couplet later sampled by the Prodigy.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Right from the start there was something very different about Keith’s rap style. It sounded like hip-hop beamed back from another planet, strange but not unknowable, an astral bedfellow of the metaphysical creativity of Sun Ra’s cosmic jazz. Tellingly, perhaps, when Keith told a journalist in the Ultramagnetic days that he had spent time as a psychiatric patient in New York’s Bellevue hospital – a story apparently invented out of boredom – it was widely believed. When Keith told a journalist – out of boredom – he'd spent time in a psychiatric hospital, it was widely believed “I was tired and was messing around with Ced just to make him laugh,” Keith told Wax Poetics in 2009. “I told this one reporter that I went crazy and was sent to Bellevue. I told him I tried to eat my own hand and that they had to stop me! Ced was holding his stomach because he was laughing so hard – so I thought the dude would know it was a joke.”Critical Beatdown may have been warmly received but the group were unable to create any momentum, temporarily splitting up in 1990 before returning in 1992 on Mercury Records for the disappointing Funk Your Head Up, an overstuffed, mixed bag of tracks that nevertheless hosted the brilliant Poppa Large (the video for which features Keith in a straitjacket, his head encased in a birdcage).Keith would record solo sessions with Godfather Don in 1992, but he didn’t go solo until after Ultramagnetic’s third studio album, The Four Horsemen, released in 1993 to little commercial avail. The same year saw Keith work with producer and DJ KutMasta Kurt on demos for what would later become his first two solo (ish) albums, Dr Octagonecologyst (as Dr Octagon) and Sex Style (under his own name). Not one to be idle, in between the two releases, Keith teamed up with Tim Dog for an album as Ultra.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It was Dr Octagonecologyst that would cement Keith’s place in rap legend, selling around 200,000 copies and getting picked up by Mo’ Wax and DreamWorks. It is, by any standards, a supremely strange album, relating the adventure of the titular doctor, a nightmarish surgeon/gynaecologist/“halfsharkalligatorhalfman” from Jupiter who performs rectal rebuilding surgery and relocates saliva glands. But if that sounds slightly childish, Keith’s lyrics are phenomenal throughout, a surreal bad dream attack of consciousness that sounds like going under heavy gas.The opening lines of Blue Flowers, the album’s second single and best-known track, are an eminently quotable example of Dr Octagon’s deranged internal logic and unsettling half rhyme. “Dr Octagon, paramedic foetus of the east,” it opens. “With priests, I’m from the Church of the Operating Room / With the strikes of force, scalpels since the holocaust.” This was matched by peerless production from Dan the Automator and KutMasta Kurt, an eerie Bartók string sample running underneath the considered, jazzy beat, while DJ Qbert added head-turning scratching. Sex Style ditched jazzy weirdness in favour of a heavily sexualised rap style that Keith called 'pornocore' After his commercial breakthrough with Dr Octagon, expectations were high for Keith’s next album. But rather than repeat himself, Keith ripped up the Octagon blueprint on 1997’s Sex Style, an album that ditched the jazzy weirdness in favour of a heavily sexualised rap style that Keith called “pornocore” and a cover picture featuring Keith in pink pants. The album was brilliant, in its own sleazy way, but the minimal beats and porn obsession caught many Dr Octagon fans off guard and it remains a polarising release.Keith would brush with stardom again later that year, with the release of the Prodigy’s 10m-selling The Fat of The Land, an improbable US No 1 album. Not only did Keith feature on album opener Smack My Bitch Up (in sampled form), he also provided a vocal for Diesel Power, an experience he would later characterise (on Leave Me Alone) as: “I got 40 grand for three minutes to write a song with Prodigy.”Later that year, Keith signed a contract with major label Columbia but, true to form, things did not turn out as planned, as KutMasta Kurt explained in a 2011 interview with Culture Creature: “After Sex Style, there was this buzz that we created. Keith got this shady manager who got him a record deal. In the fall of 97 or 98, we recorded Black Elvis … but the label put Keith in limbo. They didn’t know what to do with Black Elvis.”Keith’s answer was to create Dr Dooom and kill off Dr Octagon in style: the first track of Dooom’s 1999 album, First Come, First Served – the aptly titled Who Killed Dr Octagon? – saw Dooom shoot Dr Octagon after posing as a rabies patient. “Everybody was like, ‘When you gonna do another Dr Octagon record?’” KutMasta Kurt explained. “We said, ‘Why don’t we just kill Dr Octagon, then people can stop asking about it.’ So we did Dr Dooom.”There was, Kurt explained, a great deal of frustration behind the Dr Dooom project, with the album seen as an attempt to get away from the alternative audience that Dr Octagon had attracted. The album’s extreme horrorcore lyricism – “Penetrate your Gap jeans with Black & Decker machines / Alternate your skullies, catch dead rats in Saran wrap / Put used diapers on your windshield wipers,” runs one charming example from Call the Cops – seemed intended to ward off this new audience, while the brilliantly moody Leave Me Alone was the polar opposite of a hip-hop party jam, effectively begging everyone to go away and leave Keith in peace: “Ignorin’ yo’ phone calls from broke labels / Who try to put out underground MCs / Tryin’ to get me to rap on a wacky ass track for one G.” Black Elvis/Lost in Space went on to become a minor chart hit … naturally, Keith wasn't happy Columbia would eventually put out Black Elvis/Lost in Space in August 1999, just four months after the release of First Come, First Served. Surprisingly, the album went on to become a minor chart hit, reaching No 74 on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart and No 180 on the Billboard 200, still Keith’s best solo chart performance. Naturally, Keith wasn’t happy, berating Columbia executives on Test Press, a bonus track on his next album, Matthew: “Ruffhouse politically had to freeze my album / Regular Columbia don’t know what the hell is goin’ on / With a sheisty distribution switch behind my back.”The next decade was one of slow decline for Keith. It’s not that he ever lost his uncanny lyrical ability, rather that he started to recycle concepts, becoming musically predictable on the way. Dr Octagon came back to life in 2006, although The Return of Dr Octagon was a let down. He was killed off again on 2008’s Dr Dooom 2, and album that received a 3.7/10 review from Pitchfork.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Ultramagnetic MCs would return in 2007 for an underwhelming reunion album, and Keith has ploughed on with his solo career, releasing eight solo albums since the release of Dr Dooom 2, with collaborators including producers Ray West and L’Orange. Despite his commercial decline, Kool Keith may actually make more sense in 2016 than he has at any other point in his career. It’s not just that other rappers have bent to his weirded-out style and adopted his use of internal rhyme – Eminem is said to have been influenced by Keith in this way, referencing him in The Monster on 2013’s The Marshall Mathers LP 2 – but the growth of lyrical annotation sites such as Genius allows listeners to dissect his metaphor-heavy lyrics in a way that had been impossible for the majority of Keith’s career. We can, as a result, finally get our heads around baffling lyrical salvos like “My oxygen region’s New York to California” (a reference to alligators’ ability to dwell in water and on land, apparently) and “Like a green red blue reindeer, dead lying down with a fawn” (which suggests the red, green and blue pixels on a TV screen).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kool Keith in Jersey City, 2009. Photograph: Roger Kisby/WireImageIt helps, too, that most fans have stopped waiting for another Dr Octagonecologyst or Critical Beatdown and can instead enjoy Kool Keith for what he is: a dazzling lyrical innovator and inspired creative schemer, gifted with one of the most compelling musical minds in hip-hop. “I put another extra 20 years on rap,” Keith told Pitchfork in 2012. “Some people take what I do and run with that only, so they can’t go further. I’ll come back out and create something else.”