“The question is no longer, ‘Where are all the women musicians?’” tweeted She Shreds a few months ago, “but rather, ‘Where in YOUR practice are you lacking the ability to see us?’” Though the latter question isn’t always applicable – particularly in areas of the music industry such as producing and managing that are still vastly male dominated – the female-orientated music magazine make a valid point. The sidelining of women in the music industry is proven by cold hard stats: women make up only 14% of PRS for Music writers and performers; 86% of all performers at UK music festivals last year were men; at the 2015 BBC Proms, only 10% of the pieces performed were composed by women.Mothers of invention: the women who pioneered electronic music This summer, however, a series of events hope to inspire a new wave of female music figures; hopefully ensuring that festival organisers, venues, and music publications are unable to place the blame of underrepresentation on a simple lack of supply.Girls Music Day hopes to tackle this with its event: taking place at Shoreditch’s Sonos Studios on 23 July, tickets are allocated, via ballot system, to girls and women aged 14-24. Its guest speakers range from musicians (Laura Marling and Metronomy drummer Anna Prior) to DJs (Jamz Supernova) and PR company founders (Totem’s Naomi Williams).“There aren’t enough women headlining festivals, running record labels, or working mixing desks,” says BBC presenter and DICE music editor Jen Long, the event’s organiser. “Complaining on social media won’t fix that. Instead we need positive action, and it’s a testament to our industry that so many brilliant women have offered up their time to help inspire the next generation.”Bridging the Gap, a one-day event at Rich Mix cinema on 29 July, has a similar motive. Curated by gal-dem, an online magazine written by women of colour, it aims to bring together industry professionals in London in the form of panel discussions, DJ sets, and live performances.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Antonia Odunlami, music editor of gal-dem Photograph: Liv LittleIt also aims to highlight the intersectional inequality at play in the music industry – an aspect all-too-often overlooked at events such as these. During a panel on gender equality at this year’s Brighton Music Conference, for example, Motive Unknown’s Lucy Blair recalled being one of only two female speakers in the whole of last year’s two-day programme – a telling oversight that she has since worked hard to rectify. But this year’s panel, though a step in the right direction, was made up entirely of white people. “The twofold layer of prejudice is so inbuilt in the underpinning of the [music] industry,” says Antonia Odunlami, the music editor of gal-dem. “The upshot means that [women of colour] ultimately will suffer more than anyone else in this sense - far more than white women.”There are some for whom the idea of an all-female event or panel, aimed at an audience comprising mainly women, seems counterintuitive. They see the concept as an exercise in preaching to the converted, its “all-female” tag alienating men who hold the most power to enact change. Odunlami disagrees.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anna Meredith performing at the ICA In London. Photograph: Maria Jefferis/Redferns“Women need a safe space to feel comfortable and or empowered among ourselves,” she says. “We spend so much time having to deal with living, working, breathing in a man’s world, being forced to pander to a male gaze. It gets tiring. Sometimes it’s not all about – or for – men and that’s the damaging perspective that a lot of these issues are based upon.”Lauren Laverne’s Wonder Women series at Shakespeare’s Globe this summer certainly isn’t about, or for, men. Curated by the BBC 6 Music DJ, the event, featuring the likes of Róisín Murphy, Ibibio Sound Machine and Gwenno, it is billed as a platform for “some powerful and visionary women who are altering the complexion of popular music in the 21st century in ways both iconic and disruptive”.For those musicians who aren’t quite Wonder Woman status yet, Anna Meredith’s Manchester residency is a good place to start. In collaboration with Brighter Sound and the Museum of Science and Industry, young and emerging female musicians will work with Meredith to create work inspired by the Wonder Materials exhibition.A composer and performer who’s straddled the worlds of classical and pop music, Meredith says there are gender gaps in both sectors. “While there’s some very strong female composers in my generation, there’s also a definite gap in younger, teenage female composers,” she explains. “I imagine it would be easy to go all the way through early-stage music education and for women only to factor into syllabuses and lessons as singers from the 1960s onwards. Pop has a history of strong female singer-songwriters, but I’m also keen to highlight and encourage female producers, and challenge the assumption there’s a man ‘doing the electronics’ behind the scenes.” It’s important for these events to show women the positive side of the industry – not just bemoan the inequalities – says Long. “There’s so much good in the music industry and the conversation about gender imbalance right now can paint music as a dark place to work if you’re a woman. How are we going to inspire a future generation of girls to pick up instruments or start a label if we keep filling their minds with negativity? That’s what Girls Music Day is about – giving a stage to some amazing women who can talk about how great their jobs are and motivate more girls to join us.”Whether it’s behind the scenes or on stage, women in music are making their voices heard this summer – and they’re helping others find theirs in the process.DICE’s Girl Music Day is at Sonos Studio, London, on 23 July; gal-dem’s Bridging the Gap is at Rich Mix, London, on 29 July