It is the latest wheeze dreamed up by George Osborne as part of his plan to build a “northern powerhouse” to rival London: a Great Exhibition of the North, celebrating the best of the north of England’s culture, art and design.Towns and cities across the north-east, north-west and Yorkshire are invited to bid to put on the two-month exhibition in the summer of 2018, with the help of an initial £5m government grant. A further £15m has been pledged for a legacy fund to attract further cultural investment in the chancellor’s nascent powerhouse.Tourism supremo Sir Gary Verity, chair of the Great Exhibition board, said he wanted to “explode the myth that the north doesn’t make anything any more”.The exhibition will not hark back to the north of old – of flat caps and whippets, said Verity, who brought Harrogate to the world stage in 2014 when he lured the Tour de France “grand depart to God’s own county”, while chief executive of Welcome to Yorkshire. “It’s not about looking back to 100 years ago, he said. “It’s about today and the economy of the future.”Graphene, the wonder substance invented by Nobel prize-winning scientists at the University of Manchester, could feature, or “a design company making ergonomic chairs at the back of Ripon Cathedral”, Verity said.The show should change perceptions about the north of England, he said, which is why he persuaded Osborne’s staff that the exhibition really ought not to be held during winter. “Originally they wanted to put it on this winter but I said ‘if you want to change people’s minds about it being grim up north, you need to hold it in summer’,” he said.The competition to host the exhibition was criticised by the shadow culture minister, Maria Eagle, who noted Osborne’s original idea – dubbed the Festival of the North, gazetted back in November 2014 – was originally supposed to be a collaboration of some of the iconic museums from across the region.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ian McMillan, known as the Bard of Barnsley, broadly welcomed the move. Photograph: Sutton-Hibbert/Rex Features“However it now appears that the government has turned the initiative into one that pits cash-strapped northern cities against each other to win investment,” she said. “Instead of creating unnecessary chaos and forced competition the government should work with northern cities to build a legacy for the benefit of all.”Yorkshire poet Ian McMillan, often dubbed “the bard of Barnsley”, said the money pledged was “just crumbs”, but that he broadly welcomed the exhibition. “I’d rather have one than not,” he said. “I’d rather have a progressive tax policy, but we are not going to get that, so why not?”But he objected to the exhibition name, which is inspired by the original Great Exhibition of 1851, held in a specially constructed Crystal Palace in London’s Hyde Park. Concocted by Prince Albert and inventor Henry Cole, the world’s fair show was an “up yours” to France following the French Industrial Exposition of 1844.“It should have a northern name,” McMillan argued. “I think it should be called the Champion Exhibition of the North, or the Gradely Exhibition, or perhaps the Reyt Good One.”He said he would like the exhibition to include a piece of conceptual art, which would encapsulate what he described as the archetypal South Yorkshire gesture: “A slight sideways movement of the head, barely perceptible, used to greet another person in Barnsley,” he said. “Not a ‘Hello, my dear man, how are you?!’ greeting. Not a pumping handshake given by Osborne in a high-viz jacket. It’s almost like a nod. A nuanced northern nod.”Cultural commentator Stuart Maconie — the author of Pies and Prejudice, about his native Wigan — said he would like to see the Tyne bridge put into the Great Exhibition of the North.“Newcastle is the best looking city in England and when you arrive it’s the first thing you see,” he said. “Not to be too political about it, but it’s a reminder of when the north of England made things, before we started just selling sandwiches to each other.”