The French food firm that manufactured the Findus lasagnes found to contain up to 100% horsemeat specialises in frozen ready meals, a third of which are exported.Comigel, based in the north-eastern town of Metz, started business in 1976 and supplies tens of thousands of tonnes of frozen meals to about 15 countries.It was revealed on Friday that the company had alerted the major British food distributors with which it trades because of doubts about what it described as "conformity of specifications" of certain products, namely lasagnes and spaghetti dishes sold as containing beef by Tesco, Aldi and other UK supermarkets.Findus confirmed it had received the warning last Saturday.The Comigel group makes its frozen ready meals at its Tavola factory in Capellen, Luxembourg. This site employs 200 people who produce at least 16,000 tonnes of frozen dishes in aluminium trays a year. The meals are then sold either to frozen food firms such as Findus, or to chains such as Tesco and, in France, Cora and Auchan, which in turn sell them under different brand names.A quarter of the factory's output goes to canteens in schools, colleges, hospitals, retirement homes and companies, and public service restaurants in France.Comigel's director, Erick Lehagre, was at the Tavola factory on Friday, but was said to be unavailable for comment. Comigel could be subject to large fines as a result of the scandal, even if it is discovered that one of its suppliers is the source of the horsemeat.Lehagre, 53, is registered as living in large detached property in a village near Lille in northern France. Both he and his wife Bénedicte, a lawyer and municipal councillor, are keen golfers and leading members of the local club. website was unavailable on Friday morning, a note reading "under construction" superimposed on images of some of the company's products, among them a lasagne.Before it was taken down, the website claimed Comigel saw its primary role as being "creative and innovative" with regard to the research and development projects of its business partners, mainly European food distributors. claimed the company had five food standard certificates from recognised authorities, including the British Retail Consortium and other bodies in France and Germany.Under the heading "quality", it said: "Food security of the ready meals, traceability and in-service improvement of quality are crucial, vital commitments.The website added: "Our production site is equipped with an internal laboratory for bacteriological analysis. The quality of raw materials, the manufacturing processes and finished products is critically monitored."In 2010 Comigel was said to employ 200 people as of 2010. In 2009 it reported an annual turnover of €60m (£51m), a third of which was accounted for by exports, mainly to the Benelux countries, Germany, Scandinavia and eastern Europe.Its sister company, Atlantique Alimentaire, which also makes and distributes frozen food, is based in La Rochelle in western France. It employs 240 people and had a €41m turnover in 2009.The French finance ministry department responsible for commercial competition and repression of fraud has said it is looking into the scandal.Horsemeat is sold legally in France, and there are about 15 chevalines, or butchers selling it horsemeat, in Paris. Fans argue it is more tender, lower in fat and higher in protein than beef. 