The massive male polar bear begins to feed. His long canines rip off chunks of bloody flesh, which he swallows with practised ease. I reflect on the efforts these magnificent predators make to track down their prey: wandering alone for days across the polar ice in the hope of catching an unwary seal.But I’m not watching the latest BBC blockbuster, The Hunt. Indeed I’m not watching TV at all; I’m sitting on a dilapidated bus on the end of a disused airfield in northeast Alaska, barely 50 metres from not one, but dozens of polar bears. There’s no ice either: just grit, which has stained these usually pristine animals a filthy shade of grey. And these bears are not feeding on a seal they have killed themselves, but on the corpse of a bowhead whale, put here by the inhabitants of Kaktovik.Stranded polar bears at Kaktovik, Barter Island, Alaska - in pictures If you want to dispel virtually every myth about polar bears, then Kaktovik is the place to come. This is where the textbook on their behaviour goes right out the window. Everything I had ever been told about these mighty creatures is forgotten as I watch them hunker down to feed together, squabbling over the whale’s corpse like vultures on the African savannah.Earlier that day, I had witnessed another incredible sight. A 10 metre-long bowhead whale was dragged ashore. During the next hour or so, the carcass was expertly butchered: terrifyingly sharp knives slicing through thick layers of skin and blubber, revealing steaming chunks of flesh, crimson as the brightest lipstick. I was offered a piece – tough and rather flavourless, but not entirely unpleasant.The Inupiat of Kaktovik are allowed to take three whales every autumn, to sustain them through the winter to come. Once the meat and blubber have been removed, the carcass is taken to the edge of town, providing food for the bears.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Polar bears on the ice-free shores of Barter Island, near Kaktovik, Alaska. Photograph: Sara Ramsden/Channel 4 Picture PublicityIt is impossible to watch polar bears without being reminded that, like all Arctic wildlife, they are under threat from global climate change. It’s a message reinforced by all those amazing wildlife films, where a lone bear travels across the rapidly melting sea ice in search of its prey. So it’s not surprising that the polar bear is widely seen as the creature most likely to go extinct because of our stupidity and greed.But is that really true? Watching Channel 4’s Polar Bear Feast this weekend may make you think otherwise. For as the bears feasting on this whale carcass show, these animals – like all their family – are not specialists, but opportunists. They have survived for millions of years by finding new supplies of food, as their environment has changed. It may be inconvenient to say so, given the polar bear’s undisputed position as the icon of the environmental movement, but when the sea ice melts they may simply move on to land and make a new living there. That’s not to say that we should ignore the horrendous consequences of climate change on the Arctic, its people and its unique wildlife. But as I watch these animals, which have changed their behaviour so radically to take advantage of this unexpected bonanza of food, I would put my money on polar bears being around for a lot longer than we think. Polar Bear Feast is on Channel 4 this Saturday 5 December at 7pm.