Somebody on the point of bursting into flames from ungoverned anger has written in with a list of my perfidies, which include my still being alive when he has specifically indicated that he wants me dead. He holds me responsible for unforgivable frivolity in the face of climate change, and for my apparent indifference to the forthcoming nuclear war. And for having lived too long.From internal examination of his violently aggressive prose, I judge him to be an Australian, so he will understand when I encourage him to insert his head in a dead bear’s bottom. This useful instruction, in a less polite form, I first heard 50 years ago from my friend Bruce Beresford, the Australian film director. Neither of us thought the expression any the less eloquent for the fact that Australia has no bears except koalas. The smaller the bear, indeed, the more evocative the instruction.Rectally challenged dead bears aside, however, there is something stimulating about unhinged verbal disparagement. My persecutor has no rhetorical gifts whatever, but he has correctly guessed the unsettling effect of his going nuts in your face. You start looking around to make sure your children are safe. The best British political comedy of recent times, The Thick Of It, depends on Peter Capaldi’s supernatural talent for keeping a stream of abuse flowing with the energy of a ferret attacking anything that might stop it getting out of a pair of trousers. He’s WC Fields on a rocket sled.I’ve just watched the whole show all over again and found hundreds more reasons to admire the organising ability of its master spirit, Armando Iannucci. The mere mention of that name, however, should remind us there is a downside to the churning activity that has brought us to the point of enjoying a homogeneous global comic universe.Clive James: ‘I am planning for a future in which I appear only as a shimmering outline’ With Iannucci’s brainchild Veep starting up again, America is reminding us it is on the verge of reasserting a monopoly of comic power, like Donald Trump’s toothpaste. America doesn’t make me think this when Judd Apatow fields a new show about a pair of geeks; for one thing, the girl in Love (tiresomely generic title) is not a true geek, she’s just another goddess pretending to be aphasic. But America does look supreme when it steals Iannucci because it doesn’t even have to teach him anything. That ability to get a bunch of actors running like mad rats in a crackling maze is something he brought with him.Nevertheless, Veep will never be as funny as The Thick Of It until it steals Capaldi, and if it did that it would have to bleep every second line. It would be a bleeped Veep.