I have a love-hate relationship with weeds. Sometimes, early in the spring when the first rays of sunshine warm back and soil alike, there is something strangely soothing about hand weeding. It's a chance to clear the ground and clean the soil, working between loved garden plants, and seeing how old friends have fared over the cold months of winter. But come the summer, when the weeds are in full battle cry, the activity loses its charm altogether. Some weeds should be avoided like the plague – any plant with the word "creeping" or "repens" in its name should be assiduously uprooted and destroyed - think creeping buttercup and thistle, for example, or couch grass (Agropyron repens) – yet other weeds exhibit a certain gentlemanliness in the way they behave. The common figwort (Scrophularia nodosa), caught in its first autumn before it has had a chance to seed, forms a gnarled and distended, whitish-green truffle-like tuber that is satisfyingly easy to pop up from the soil. Likewise, common fleabane, after just a month or two of growth is easily uprooted, stems and its first tentacular roots and all: a quick check to see that none has snapped off, and you know that a clean job has been done. (That said, woe betide anyone who doesn't remove it in that first autumn, for it morphs into a rampant horror the following year.)Over the past few years, I have even been watching the trials and tribulations of one particular weed, like some estranged father separated from a loved offspring. The weed in question is the annual meadowgrass, or a form of it, to be specific. For those who believe in evolution, the story is a fascinating one.A few years back Mike Grant, now editor of The Plantsman, then botanist at the Royal Horticultural Society's gardens at Wisley, took a particular interest in the annual meadowgrass that grew in the flower beds there. For those who don't think you know this meadowgrass (you do, I assure you, for it plagues every British garden), it's a classic weed with classic weed strategies for survival. It grows rapidly to flowering – perhaps in as little as six weeks – and does its growing in the first months of the year when competition from other plants is limited, and when gardeners are only just thinking of coming out of hibernation. The plant produces copious seed, which germinates rapidly and instantly, going on to give birth to as many as three or four generations in the course of a year. But it has one Achilles heel, for the leaves of this lowly grass are unfeasibly bright and green against the dark and dank winter soils, falling easy prey to gardeners.Enter Mike Grant and evolution in practice. Mike noticed that the plants in the flower beds at Wisley had earth-brown leaves, and enquiries among botanically-minded gardeners identified a few other locations for this form of the grass, from places as far afield as Lancashire and Kent. Evidence enough for Mike to formally describe the brown-leaved plant as a form of annual meadowgrass: he named it Poa annua forma purpurea in 2003.The explanation for how this form of meadowgrass came into being is rather fun. It would seem that the repeated weeding favoured a few brown-leaved plants over the green leaved typical form, for gardeners can more easily see the bright green leaved form. In short, more green-leaved plants are weeded out by hand or hoe, leaving a greater proportion of the brown-leaved form to grow and reproduce. And I love the fact that this process seems to have first taken place at Wisley: I can picture ill-paid horticultural students, bemittened and chilblained, being pressganged into weeding the chilled Surrey soils, overseen by some nasty gangmaster. The jabbing fingers and hoes of the students, in short, have played God and catalysed Darwinian evolutionary processes before our very eyes. Portsmouth Field, the RHS's famous trialling grounds, is apparently awash with the stuff in a "good" season, and members of the Wild Flower Society make special pilgrimages to the gardens to garner a record for their wild flower diaries! Today, P. annua f. purpurea is found as far afield as Kent and Lancashire (even at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew), and always in gardens, probably spread in the pots and soil of nursery plants or gifts from friends. While I can't describe myself as a weed enthusiast, I grudgingly respect the strategies they adopt. If you want to know more, I can't recommend Richard Mabey's recent volume, Weeds, enough. • Andy Byfield is one of the founders of the wild plant charity Plantlife.