If you placed all the articles written about the new Ghostbusters movie (before anyone had seen a single frame) back to back, they would probably stretch at least 10 times round Manhattan. Even prior to Bridesmaids’ brilliant Paul Feig signing on the dotted line for the current iteration in 2014, original star Dan Aykroyd spent at least four years trying to convince a reluctant Bill Murray to pull on his proton pack and fire up the Ecto-1 for one last time.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Watch the new Ghostbusters trailer with an all-female castPaul Feig: Ghostbusters reboot criticism is 'vile, misogynistic shit' Then, almost as soon as Feig had announced his plan to recruit a new, all-female team of ghost hunters, the backlash began from both former cast members and disgruntled “men’s rights” advocates. The film-maker swiftly dispensed with what he quite rightly labelled “vile, misogynistic shit”, and rather more politely pointed out that anyone who felt their childhood was about to be ruined by a Hollywood comedy should probably get out more.Leslie Jones (@Lesdoggg)ITS NOT A MAN, WOMAN, RACE, CLASS THANG!! ITS A GHOSTBUSTER THANG!! AND AS FAR AS IM CONCERNED WE ALL GHOSTBUSTERS!! STAND TALL!!March 4, 2016Now, the first trailer for Ghostbusters 2016 has landed, and – yes, you guessed it – the whiff of controversy is still palpable. Here are five takeaways from our debut look at Feig’s follow-up to the hip-swingingly fabulous Spy.The ghost of JJ Abrams is hovering over Paul Feig’s movieIs it a remake? Is it a sequel? An opening line tells us that the new movie is set 30 years after another crew of scientists saved New York, but if that’s so, why don’t our new quartet – Melissa McCarthy, Kristen Wiig, and Saturday Night Live regulars Kate McKinnon and Leslie Jones – recognise the Ghostbusters emergency vehicle as a dead ringer for the 1984 Ecto-1? Maybe they lived out of town, but the suspicion is that such logic gaps are born of the same Hollywood obsession with nostalgia that led Star Wars: The Force Awakens baddies to waste all their precious galactic credits on yet another implausibly fragile Death Star.Diversity campaigners have joined the anti-Ghostbusters queueCould the Ghostbusters receptionist be Chris Hemsworth's smartest role yet? Feig’s movie looked like being a liberal’s wet dream, with the film-maker singlehandedly righting all Hollywood’s Bechdel test-baiting wrongs by casting four of the funniest women in America in roles originally inhabited by men and handing Annie Potts’s receptionist’s desk to Thor out of The Avengers. But what’s that you say? Someone’s still not happy?The problem, say many, many people on Twitter, is that the new version of Ghostbusters features three brainy white scientist types and one street-smart black stereotype. That’s pretty much the same setup as we saw in Ivan Reitman’s original film. But, so the argument goes, Feig and his writing team might easily have switched the dynamic for the remake – even if Jones does seem to be getting all the best jokes, and is clearly a more equal player than Ernie Hudson’s Winston Zeddemore was in 1984.Heather Abrey (@HeatherAbrey)@Ghostbusters @KevinFrankish Not sure about the "three educated white women and sassy black friend" feel. Hopefully more to that character.March 3, 2016Unnamed Insider (@Unnamedinsider)The black character not knowing "science stuff" but "knowing New York" yikes!! #GhostbustersMarch 3, 2016Imperator Fieriosa (@GeekMelange)Like I'm excited for all-female Ghostbusters. But 3 white ladies & 1 Black woman (stuck w/"street smarts" trope) is barely diverse.1March 3, 2016‘Someone’ is trying to bring the evil back to New York CityBut on to more immediate matters, like the plot. We’ve been told the major villain in Ghostbusters 2016 is Neil Casey’s Rowan, a powerful demon of unknown provenance, and the trailer tells us that someone is “creating a device that amplifies paranormal activity”. In the original movie, two human vessels, Rick Moranis’s unfortunate Louis Tully, and Sigourney Weaver’s lissom Dana Barrett, were required to summon the demon Gozer to Earth. Might Chris Hemsworth’s Kevin the secretary, whose eyes look a little glazed at one point, be involved this time? We know the Australian actor asked for his role to be beefed up before taking the part, and he’s got the look to play a musclebound Sumerian demigod.Ghosts seem to be getting mixed up with demonsHollywood is pretty clear on this. Ghosts are usually visible and do not possess people; demons are usually invisible and do. But Feig has decided to shake things up, and it seems that once a bit of green goo gets inside you, there’s no telling what manner of head-spinning-all-the-way-round type behaviour may ensue. Luckily, a bit of extreme violence is all that’s necessary to banish evil spirits back to the seventh layer of Hades – or perhaps the corner of 7th and 34th – rather than a full exorcism carried out by a trained cleric.The jokes are closer to Spy than the original GhostbustersAnyone who bet that Feig was going to change his style just because he’s remaking one of the 80s’ best-known movies was always going to lose that wager. Like last year’s superb espionage caper, Ghostbusters 2016 is sending up its source material as much as it’s paying tribute to it. This is Feig, and his trusted, regular team of McCarthy and Wiig, having huge amounts of fun once again with genre silliness, as opposed to essaying the more nuanced indie comedy of Bridesmaids. If you’ve seen Spy, you’ll probably “get” the humour here. But there are clearly plenty who haven’t and are wondering when Murray (yes, he’s in) and Aykroyd are going to turn up and bring the jokes. Yet even this brief look at the film suggests McCarthy’s spectacular improvisational skills are once again coming to the fore, and that’s enough to settle any lingering nerves for me on this one.