The whole book, Conjuror, is based around music. Do you two have any musical talents?Carole: Well, I love music. I always have music playing in my house… I like to sing… but…      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest John: She can write really well, but she’s pretty much tone deaf! Can’t hold a tune in a bushel basket our gran would say.Carole: Yep. That’s true. John has the musical talent in the family. He has a beautiful voice; as many of you will know he spent a great deal of his professional life in musical theatre in shows like Phantom of the Opera, Miss Saigon and Anything Goes. He’s also released a number of CDs over the years and he has had a number of concert tours in the UK. He also does Panto most years in the UK too.What was your inspiration for the novel?John: Lots of things inspired us but the main one was wanting to bring the musical arts into our fictional world the same we way used visual art in our middle grade Hollow Earth series.Hollow Earth by John and Carole E. Barrowman – review Carole: Once we imagined the Animare world in our first trilogy, where artists can animate their art and move in and out of paintings, creating a character who could manipulate reality with his music seemed a logical creative step for our story.Lots of siblings have fights all the time. Do you two get along most of the time?John: Ha! Most of the time. We may be adults, but we still revert to our sibling behaviours every now and then.Carole: My job as his big sister is to boss him around as much as possible.John: While my role as her wee brother is to annoy her… a lot.Throughout the novel ‘The Grand Inquisitor’ isn’t given a name. Why is that?Carole: Great question. I don’t think anyone’s asked us this before. We actually name him in the very beginning of the opening chapter, but then we never refer to it again because he’s…John: No spoilers…Carole: I won’t! Let me just say it’s because he’s inhabiting the job of Grand Inquisitor. It’s a position that defines him at this time in history.Why did you name the book ‘Conjuror’ and not ‘Animare’?John: This is Remy’s story. It’s his journey of self-discovery and his quest to find out the truth about his mum’s murder.Who came up with the names for the characters in the book?Carole: We share responsibility for naming characters, and if we don’t agree we arm wrestle to see who wins… or I threaten to tell our mum he’s being mean to his sister.John: Since Carole does all the heavy lifting in terms of the actual writing of the story, I usually defer to her name choices if we’re in conflict… most of the time.Who's a Who: Dr. Seuss or Doctor Who? – quiz Did you have any arguments about the plot of the book?Carole: Sometimes. But not too often with Conjuror.John: We collaborate on the broad outline of the story and the key events of the arc, and then as I mentioned before Carole is the writer and she goes off and works on a full draft. When she does that sometimes things change, characters do things we maybe didn’t imagine in the outline and when that happens she’ll call me… usually in the middle of the night… This actually happened with our first novel Hollow Earth; she called me and she was almost crying, and she said ‘I can’t kill him!’Carole: That’s right! I think John thought I was plotting to murder my husband.John: Turns out she’d fallen in love with Solon, a character from medieval Scotland in Hollow Earth. We’d planned to kill him off and she couldn’t do it.Who did most of the work for the book?Carole: I do!John: I do!Carole: I’m telling mum…John: Ok… she does…12 Doctors, 12 stories, 12 jackets – a Doctor Who style celebration! Did you watch Doctor Who as children?John: We were born and raised in Scotland and since Carole’s a bit older than I am she actually was a fan of the original Doctor Who when it first ran in the UK in the late 60s and 70s. When we emigrated with our family to the US in the late 1970s, the show was on re-runs on a Chicago TV station and I watched it then. Carole: So that’s a yes. We were both huge fans as children and continue to be fans as adults which is why it’s so cool that we can write about some of these characters, and that John played such an iconic character in the series.Which do you enjoy most: writing, or acting, or teaching?John: I don’t like to choose. I see all of these as part of who I am and I love doing all of them.Carole: I agree. We’ve both worked hard to keep our passions for all of these areas active in our professional and personal lives. Which book do you consider to be your best?Carole: Yikes! That’s like picking a favourite child… Not sure I can do that. I’m proud of each one of our books.John: I think when we’re working on the next book or comic we always go into that project trying to do better than we’ve done before. Michael Scott's top 10 Doctor Who creatures What’s the best question you have ever been asked?John: This one.What inspired you to write a book based around drawing and music?Carole: We both love the arts, and we’ve always thought that our imaginations are our super powers... When we were brainstorming Hollow Earth the idea of being able to bring drawings to life was something we thought would be really cool to do.Who are your favourite children’s authors?Carole: I loved Enid Blyton mysteries and Alexandre Dumas’ adventure stories. I also read lots of classic writers like Charles Dickens and Jane Austen. I was also a huge sci-fi reader; one of my favourite childhood books was John Wyndham’s The Day of the Triffids.John: Like Carole, I loved Enid Blyton’s Secret Seven series and I loved Roald Dahl, especially Charlie and The Great Glass Elevator. I read lots of comics too. My favourite childhood novel, though, is SE Hinton’s The Outsiders.Is it tricky writing books with a sibling?Carole: Oh yes, especially when your sibling is tricky…John: We’ve collaborated now of lots of projects, including Conjuror and six other books, and we’re still having fun working together. That’s pretty cool I think.Did either of you ever get writer’s block and what helped you overcome it?Conjuror by John and Carol E. Barrowman - review Carole: I don’t really get ‘writer’s block’. If I get stuck on something I won’t call it that… Instead I stop sweating over the writing problem I’m trying to solve and I go watch a movie or I read or I go for a swim… and I stop thinking about whatever is the ‘block’. Often when I return to the problem, my brain has figured it out and I can move on. If it hasn’t I move on to another scene or write something else. I try not to give in.John and Carole Barrowman’s new book, Conjuror, is out now and available at the Guardian Bookshop.