I was two years into my GP training, working as a general medical senior house officer on rotation at the Royal London Hospital in Whitechapel, east London. We were protesting our horrendous rotas as junior doctors. That’s Jeremy Corbyn in front of me, with the beard, who was supporting us.Back then, we worked shifts known as one-in-twos, one-in-threes and one-in-fours. A one-in-two meant you had to be on duty all night every two days, while still working the days either side, and be on duty every other weekend (essentially a 120-hour week). The most I ever did was one-in-three – regularly working a 100-hour week. A weekend would involve going to work on a Friday morning and not getting home until Monday evening. The bleep could go off at any time. I got very little sleep and often didn’t eat until late at night. I remember falling asleep in the operating theatre at 5am one Monday, while assisting on an emergency operation to pin a fractured hip. I jerked awake, but it was incredibly unsafe. I remember fighting not to fall asleep at the wheel driving home.The junior doctors striking last month were protesting against having contracts imposed on them; for us, it was more a growing dissatisfaction with our hours. We wanted change. Sam Everington (pictured front right in the Christmas jumper, and now Sir Sam Everington) led the campaign. He had camped outside the hospital on Christmas Day and Boxing Day a month earlier, to make a statement, and caused a bit of a media storm. He was our inspiration; today, he’s hugely influential, still a GP in east London, and still wears those jumpers.Junior doctors strike across England – in pictures Our campaigning worked. Things are better for junior doctors today, but if Jeremy Hunt gets his way, their conditions will deteriorate. They risk finding themselves on a slippery slope backwards, being paid less for the hours they work. I joined the strike in January outside Whitechapel tube: the doctors were angry and organised, with a strong feeling that they were doing exactly the right thing.I finished my hospital job in September 1990 and became a GP the following year. I’m now a GP in east London, at a practice in Bethnal Green. It’s the best job in the world – building relationships with people, looking after them – but I hate the bureaucracy: it’s unrelenting. I sit on numerous committees, and although it’s good to be involved in the running of the NHS, these things take you away from patient-facing care. It drives me nuts.Sam sent me this picture just before Christmas. It was published in the Morning Star. A few of us even went on the daytime programme, Kilroy, to join the audience debate.Looking at the picture today, I am angry that the gains we fought for are in danger of being eroded. They weren’t just for doctors, they were important for patient safety. I am proud of today’s junior doctors for standing firm in defence of the NHS.• Are you in a famous photograph? Email thatsme@theguardian.com