 I believe that you can find the solution to any problem if you look hard enough and sometimes, those solutions can be found in a really great book!I love nothing more than discovering picture books with my children that might help them with some of the problems they face today; from building their self-confidence and (what Carol Dweck coined as) a ‘growth mindset’, to learning to be kind to themselves and each other and to try to make sense of change, loss and grief.Our world has never been more distracted, stressful and complex so here are my top 10 picture books with self-help messages to help children adapt to the world and thrive. 1. Penguins Hidden Talent by Alex Latimer Penguin’s Hidden Talent is a modern light-hearted tale about a Penguin who would love to take part in the big annual talent show but just can’t find his own special talent. It’s a lovely reminder that we all have something special to give to the world, it just sometimes takes a little time and good friends to help us figure it out. 2. The Dot by Peter H Reynolds Vashti says she can’t draw. Her teacher thinks she can. The Dot is an inspiring story about how the power of someone believing in you (and the opportunity to look at something from a different perspective), can reveal greatness. The Dot helps us see that there is a creative spirit in all of us. 3. Flight School by Lita Judge Another story that features a penguin who was “hatched to fly” and has the soul of an eagle but… wasn’t built to soar. With passion and determination, he follows his dreams (despite the technical difficulties) and proves that where there is a will, there is a way! 4. The Most Magnificent Thing by Ashley Spires A “regular girl” has a wonderful idea. She is going to make “the most magnificent thing”. She knows how it will look and work but unfortunately, it doesn’t turn out the way she planned and it’s up to her trusty canine assistant to give her the help she needs. This story is a wonderful model of the hard work and persistence required to bring artistic impulses successfully to life (which in our current world filled with instant gratification, is a valuable reminder). 5. Giraffes Can’t Dance by Giles Andreae, illustrated by Guy Parker-ReesLifeboat: children's illustrators raise money for refugees – in pictures Gerald dreads the great Jungle Dance every year because he can’t dance like the other animals who laugh at him and call him a fool. As he creeps off feeling alone, a cricket helps him realise that we are all different and some of us just dance to a different tune! This funny and delightful story shows us the importance of compassion and the beauty of diversity. 6. The Sneetches by Dr Seuss 'Oh, the places you'll go!' The best Dr Seuss quotes “Now the star belly Sneetches had bellies with stars. The Plain-Belly Sneetches had none upon thars”. My mother had to read The Sneetches to me every single day when I was a child and the message is just as current now as it was 40 years ago when she read it to me, that we are all just the same underneath and whether you have a star or not, isn’t what’s important. What’s really important is compassion, tolerance and accepting people who might be different from us.7. Dragon Island by Martin Baynton, illustrated by Terri Rose BayntonNorman is a dragon who (unlike all the other dragons on the island), likes “making not breaking”. No matter how hard he tries to change the aggressive nature of the other dragons, he simply cannot. This story is a great one to demonstrate that there are some situations of conflict that we simply cannot change and why sometimes it is necessary to remove yourself from them for your own self-preservation.8. Cry Heart but Never Break by Glenn Ringtved, illustrated by Charlotte PardiTop 10 children's books on death and bereavement One of the most deeply compassionate books I have ever found on how to try to accept the profound sadness of loss and understand the natural balancing laws of nature. Death tenderly arrives at the children’s house one day to take their beloved grandmother. The children try to stall him and he tells them a heart-warming story to help them understand why death is natural and necessary.9. The Day the Sea went Out and Never Came Back by Margot Sunderland, illustrated by Nicky ArmstrongThe best quotes about loss and bereavement Eric is a sand dragon who loves the sea very much. When it goes out one day and never comes back, it feels as though he has lost everything and he doesn’t want to feel anything ever again. But one day a flower helps Eric have the courage to feel the full pain of his loss and realise that his memories of the sea are like a special kind of treasure in his mind. I have never found a book that has depicted the enormity of the loss of a loved one and practical ways to grieve like this book so delicately does.10. The Lion and the Bird by Marianne DubucThis story takes me to that magical place that exists between a great children’s book and a beautiful adult philosophical tale. A lion finds a wounded bird in his garden and nurses it back to life. They share a world of happiness together through winter but deep down, Lion knows the time will come when spring will return and the bird will fly back to its flock. It’s a tale which reminds us that when we dare to love greatly, we risk great loss but that if we set love free, it might just come back. Avril McDonald is the Author of the Feel Brave Series of books (little stories about big feelings for 4-7 year olds) and founder of www.feelbrave.com 