Singers at the Royal Opera House have made an impassioned plea on behalf of the chorus at English National Opera, calling planned cuts to its pay and conditions “extreme” and “irreversible”.In a letter seen by the Guardian, the ROH chorus tells ENO that it has the opportunity “to make your company once again the greatest in the world for opera performed in English”.The letter continues: “Don’t disable the very essence of what makes that possible. Don’t expect to fill your auditorium if you present your visitors with a part-time, inexperienced company. ENO deserves better and so does its loyal audience.”ENO is being forced to make cuts after Arts Council England (ACE) announced in 2014 that it was cutting its annual grant by 29%, or £5m.ENO in crisis: who can keep the magic alive? The 44-strong full-time chorus has been threatened with a pay cut of least 25%, in that members would be employed on a nine-month instead of a 12-month contract, reflecting a reduction in work at ENO’s base, the Coliseum in London. The chorus, which also faces four redundancies, are due to vote in a ballot on industrial action, announced by the union Equity last week.A string of big opera names, including the ROH music director, Antonio Pappano, and singers Susan Bullock, Sarah Connolly and Stuart Skelton, have condemned the proposals. ENO’s own music director, Mark Wigglesworth, has also warned that cutting the core of the company “would damage it irreparably”.In a hand-delivered letter to ENO’s chair, Harry Brünjes, and chief executive, Cressida Pollock, the ROH chorus interprets the threatened cuts as part of “an intention to eventually do without a full-time chorus altogether”.“Without explicitly stating so, the figures you have produced suggest precisely that,” the letter says. “The salary decrease of at least 25% and the dramatic change in working practice are such that members of your chorus would not, in many cases, be able to sustain their current circumstances. “To suggest that these performers would be able to continue to support themselves in the capital and fill unused months with other contracts is at best naïve, and at worst exposes a substantial lack of knowledge of the current climate. “Once these extreme measures are put in place, they will be irreversible. Years of training and experience lost. Performances are the raison d’être of any opera company; therefore it follows that the performers should be the last port of call for cuts. The ROH chorus know this situation all too well, and managed to negotiate successfully, some 20 years ago, to keep the chorus full-time and at the core of the present company.”Arts Council England has ordered ENO to come up with a new business model after decades of financial problems.The company plans to save £664,000 from the chorus, £523,000 from backstage staff costs, £2.9m by reducing productions and increasing visiting company income, and £778,000 from reductions in other overhead costs. There are no plans at the moment for a reduction in ENO’s orchestra.For some, the villain of the piece is ACE. But writing on the Guardian on Tuesday, its chief executive, Darren Henley, says ENO has been too late in addressing opera’s biggest challenge – making itself relevant to 21st-century audiences.Every opera company must adapt or die: the ENO is no exception | Darren Henley Defending the £5m cut, he writes: “Until this financial year ENO has struggled to attract audiences and to balance its books. It has been bailed out over the years by the Arts Council to the tune of millions of pounds. Although we are seeing clear signs of improvement, as stewards of public money, we cannot ignore its track record.“In reducing ENO’s grant, we believed we could get better value for the taxpayer by investing that money elsewhere. We also believe we have made the organisation wake up to the changes required to run a modern, sustainable opera company.”He praised the current leadership for getting to grips with the financial challenge and “coming up with credible ideas that aren’t simply the old year-round, grand opera house model playing to dwindling audiences”.In a statement, ENO said: “We have been listening to all comments from the artistic community and our audiences with regards to the proposed changes to ENO and we thank them all for their support. We have also consulted with leaders of opera houses from across the UK and internationally, as well as colleagues from other national portfolio organisations for their advice and guidance. “Following a 30% reduction in our ACE funding, we must make significant changes to the way our organisation operates. It is of utmost importance that we act now and face the economic reality of the situation we are in. Failure to do so would place ENO, a company that has been at the heart of the UK’s operatic scene for over 85 years, at grave risk of closure. It has been made clear to us that no further financial assistance will be forthcoming if we do not make these changes to our operating model.”