Not all species are equal; some are highly refined specialists – not choosy aristocrats but animals, plants and fungi compelled by chemistry, ecology and morphology derived from millions of years of evolution to seek, and thrive in, only very particular circumstances. Each specialist has unique mandatory interactions with the physical environment and intimate relationships with other species. Such specialists are not evenly distributed; vast areas of humdrum fields are populated by unfussy habitat generalists. The humdrum is punctured by spaces where lower human pressure allows moderately specialist species toflourish. At the top end are species with a string of exacting requirements that coincide only in a handful of places.Thursley Common is a pinnacle of specialness, the sandy rolling hills – purple with bell heather, scattered with gorse and birch – and wetter bogs and pools are home to a particularly rich array of rare and endangered life. Heathland animals burst into activity in sunshine, but today has been solidly overcast with rain on the agenda. As I walk on to the heath, my fears of an uneventful visit to an amazing place are lessened as the sun breaks through the clouds. Sure enough, a silver-studded blue flits among the heather, displaying distinctive blue-flecked black dots on his wings. Not only does its little caterpillar need the right food-plants (various heathers), it also depends on black ants that protect it and take it into their nest to pupate safely.In the middle of the heath the path expands into a broad area of loose sand. A large dark insect leaps into the air and careers downwind – classic tiger beetle behaviour. It hits the sand and hunkers down. Instantly I know it is a special animal. The common green tiger beetle is a matt metallic emerald, but this is a polished antique bronze. It is a heath tiger beetle, a specialist of ethereal quality, exceedingly rare and one of the species that embodies the quality of Thursley Common – pinnacle achieved.@MattEAShardlow