This is the time of year when the UK’s retail giants launch their blockbuster television ads and this year has been no exception, with a comedy bouncing dog, Mrs Claus and a time-poor dad.Which retailers are giving money to charities this year?Retailers are raising funds and awareness for many causes this year. John Lewis is supporting the Wildlife Trusts with an uplifting ad about a bouncing boxer called Buster. The retailer has opted for light-hearted comedy, rather than the more sentimental values of previous campaigns. Last year’s heartfelt ad for Age UK told the story of lonely old man living in a moon crater. This year, John Lewis is selling a range of cuddly animal toys donating 10% of each sale to the Wildlife Trusts. The ad cost £1m to make in a west London studio and the department store will spend a total of £6m on the campaign.Christmas TV ads - the search for a cracker, the fear of a turkey “Coming home” is the theme behind Waitrose’s Christmas advert, which follows the migration of a robin. The supermarket chain is selling Michael Morpugo’s book about the robin’s journey for £5 and donating 50p from each sale to Crisis.Sainsbury’s is supporting Great Ormond Street with an animation film voiced by comedian James Corden. The advert tells the story of Dave who decides to create clone helpers so he can spend time with his family this Christmas. The profits from a gingerbread “Dave kit” will help fund on-site accommodation at the children’s hospital.Aldi is raising funds for Barnardo’s with its campaign about Kevin the carrot who desperately tries to reach the fireplace and meet Father Christmas. Soft toys of Kevin are being sold for £2.99, with 100% of profits going to the children’s charity.'We had a fox stuck on a trampoline' – wildlife charities react to the John Lewis Christmas ad And which aren’t?Marks & Spencer’s Mrs Claus film directed by Oscar-winning Tom Hooper has been described as this year’s best Christmas advert, but it is not raising money for a specific charity. The high street retailer is instead continuing with its popular Food on the Move campaign, with profits going to Shelter. How much will the charities get?Retailers and charities tend to be equally tight-lipped about how much charities actually get as a result of Christmas TV advertising.But this isn’t just about money. Age UK reported a huge boost in inquiries about volunteering as a result of the 2015 John Lewis ad, which raised issues of loneliness.How else are charities hoping to raise money during the festive season? Special fundraising events include Doctors of the World UK’s annual Santa Run in Victoria Park, east London, on 4 December, while Save the Children is encouraging everyone to take part in Christmas Jumper Day, on 16 December. The NSPCC is hoping to raise more than £150,000 for its Childline service at a Christmas carol service held in the crypt of St Paul’s on 13 December. And on Giving Tuesday, on 29 November, organised by the Charities Aid Foundation, more than 1,400 UK charities will be involved in a huge campaign expected to raise millions of pounds in a short space of time. Last year, the day brought in more than £6,000 a minute for UK charities.Talk to us on Twitter via @Gdnvoluntary and join our community for your free Guardian Voluntary Sector monthly newsletter, with analysis and opinion sent direct to you on the first Thursday of the month.