The Vikings Uncovered8.30pm, BBC1As if to prove that we are living in a fantastical future replete with spectacular job titles, space archaeologist Dr Sarah Parcak employs satellite images of Earth to develop accurate imagery of otherwise long-lost historic settlements. Using this technology, Parcak joins historian Dan Snow and a team of experts who go to extraordinary lengths to prove (or disprove) claims first made in Viking sagas that their settlers explored locations as far-flung as North America some 1,200 years ago – centuries before Christopher Columbus. Mark Gibbings-JonesMarcella9pm, ITVAnna Friel stars as the titular heroine in this new suspense series from the creator of The Bridge, which flips backwards and forwards, revealing and confusing as it goes. Marcella, a former cop, is pretty upset when her husband Jason moves out. As she tries to get to the bottom of why he’s no longer in love with her, a more formal investigation comes her way. When she left the police force, Marcella was investigating a possible serial killer. Now, all the signs seem to indicate that he has resumed his mission. John RobinsonThe People v OJ Simpson: American Crime Story9pm, BBC2This week we focus on the jury members, and the extraordinary strains they face during the course of a lengthy, high-profile, hard-fought trial. We flash back to their arrival at their swanky hotel, convinced that they have landed an extended holiday, only to find themselves effectively quarantined. Racial divides become evident, along with resentment at their treatment. Will all of this result in their returning a wise verdict? Meanwhile, Robert Kardashian worries that his own side appears to be doing too well. David StubbsJames May: The Reassembler9pm, BBC4It’s not quite Slow TV, but there’s something relaxing about this new series in which May reconstructs an object from its component parts. Later this week he’ll try to piece together an electric guitar and a rotary telephone, but first up is a classic Suffolk Colt petrol lawnmower in more than 300 bits. With no time limit, it’s just May rooting around for pins and scratching his chin – all good practice for his next gig, reverse-engineering Top Gear for Amazon. Graeme VirtueSex Box10pm, Channel 4The controversial series, featuring couples getting it on in a soundproofed box before discussing it with a panel of experts, returns. But gone is Mariella Frostrup and her veneer of respectability; in comes smirking former E4 host Steve Jones. The show purports to offer advice to participants on how to improve their love lives, and tonight includes tutorials on oral sex and erotic massage. Plus Flemish sexologist and former Miss Belgium Goedele Liekens throws her oar in. Like a po-faced Eurotrash. Julia RaesideLost & Found Music Studios10.05am, CBBCA spinoff of Canadian faux-reality kids’ series The Next Step, this new mockumentary follows a group of tween performers taking part in an elite after-school programme. Would-be rockstar Luke performs a song that his pal John has written to express his feelings for dancer Michelle, but another member of the cohort promptly assumes it’s for her. Meanwhile, sheltered Eva worries about fitting in. Sickly sweet and cheesier than an IV drip full of Wotsits, it’s the sort of thing 9- to 12-year-olds will likely adore. Hannah J DaviesPlebs10pm, ITV2The plebs are back for a well-deserved third series, and Marcus, Stylax and Grumio are hoping to get tickets for the hugely popular “beast games” at the Colosseum. Instead, they find themselves embroiled with a group of animal rights activists, led by a fiery Gaul called Delphine, whose main form of protest appears to be the use of tomatoes. Understandably, Marcus is soon infatuated. The dim-witted Grumio unwisely crosses Landlady, their new landlady, played by the magnificent Maureen Lipman. Ben ArnoldToday’s best live sportCurling: World ChampionshipsCoverage of the round-robin stage of the men’s event at St Jakobshalle in Basel, Switzerland. 9am, Eurosport 2Cycling: Basque TourStage one of the road race, from Etxebarria to Markina-Xemein. 2.30pm, Eurosport 1U-21 Premier League: Manchester United v ChelseaThe next generation strut their stuff. 7.30pm, BT Sport 1Netball: Hertfordshire Mavericks v Yorkshire JetsFrom the Hertfordshire Sports Village in Hatfield. 7.30pm, Sky Sports 2FilmsBecket(Peter Glenville, 1964), 1.15pm, BBC2This tale of murder in the cathedral is a fine-looking, intelligent costume epic, adapted from Jean Anouilh’s elegant play. At its heart is a compelling clash of superstars: Richard Burton, fresh from conquering Cleopatra, and Peter O’Toole of Lawrence of Arabia fame, as, respectively, the troublesome archbishop Thomas Becket and Henry II, their lifelong friendship sundered by the conflicting demands of church and state. Paul HowlettRust And Bone(Jacques Audiard, 2012), 1.20am, Film4Marion Cotillard’s Stéphanie is a trainer of killer whales who loses both her legs to one of the beasts in a horrifying accident. Streetfighter and single parent Ali (Matthias Schoenaerts) takes care of her, and their lives intertwine. Despite the extraordinary circumstances, the relationship feels real, thanks to its honest performances, while Audiard conjures mesmerising scenes. PH