The maker of Flora and Stork has put the margarine and spreads business up for sale as consumers turn to butter and healthier options.Unilever, an Anglo-Dutch business which is one of the biggest consumer goods groups in the world, said it plans to sell its spreads business, which is valued at around £6bn, or spin it off into a separate company.Sales of margarine and spreads, once regarded as a healthier alternative to butter, have been in long-term decline in Europe and the US. Concerns about trans fats in the 2000s led to many brands removing hydrogenated fats from their spreads and reformulating their recipes. However, sales have continued to fall. Growing suspicion of processed foods and a re-evaluation of saturated fat have prompted many consumers to return to butter. Households have also cut back on the amount of bread they eat and are buying more butter because they consider it to be more natural.Sales of margarine in the UK are down more than 12% on last year while butter sales have climbed nearly 2%, according to figures from research group Kantar Worldpanel.Spreads v butterGeorge Salmon, analyst at City firm Hargreaves Lansdown, said: “The reality of 21st-century life is that people are more likely to grab breakfast on the go rather than sit around the table with a few slices of toast.” Tom Berry at consumer research group GlobalData added: “A turnaround in expert advice on dairy fats has resulted in the resurging popularity of ‘real’ butter. The growth in home baking and the narrowing price gap between butter and margarine have further contributed to falling sales for the latter.”Margarine has been central to the Unilever business since the company was formed in 1929 by the merger of Lever Brothers, which was making soap from its factory in Port Sunlight, Merseyside, and Margarine Unie, a collection of margarine makers across Europe.Margarine was invented in France in 1869 after Napoleon III offered a reward to anyone who could produce a cheaper and longer-lasting alternative to butter. Hippolyte Mège-Mouriès, a chemist, created margarine and eventually sold his product to Jurgens, a Dutch company that went on to become part of Margarine Unie and then Unilever.The firm’s Stork brand was launched in 1920 and was the subject of famous 1970s and 1980s advertising campaigns, with comedians Sir Bruce Forsyth and Leslie Crowther, the latter fronting TV taste tests in supermarkets.Flora was launched in 1964, and marketed as being healthier than both margarine and butter, while I Can’t Believe It’s Not Butter! – a lower cost spread that claimed to taste more like the real thing – first went on sale in the US in 1986.However, demand for margarine and spreads has been on the slide in recent years. Annual UK sales have dropped by more than a third over the past five years, from £605m to an estimated £399m in 2016. At the same time butter sales have gone up from £666m to £706m, research from Mintel shows.Paul Polman, chief executive of Unilever, said on Thursday: “After a long history in Unilever, we have decided that the future of the spreads business now lies outside the group.”Polman announced the move as part of a shakeup of Unilever after it fought off a $143bn (£115bn) takeover bid from US rival Kraft Heinz.As well as owning the collection of margarine brands, Unilever products include Dove soap, Ben & Jerry’s ice-cream, Persil laundry detergent and Marmite.Unilever also announced it would spend €5bn (£4.3bn) on buying back its own shares – which should push the price of the shares up – and would increase its dividend payout to shareholders by12% this year. The company is also also planning to cut costs, which will result in management job losses, and said it would review its dual legal structure in the UK and the Netherlands. This review, which will be conducted with Brexit as a backdrop, could lead to Unilever ditching its UK legal base, although the company said this did not mean any jobs would be affected. At the time of the Kraft Heinz bid, Polman called for more help from the government to protect “national champions” such as Unilever. Companies in the Netherlands are offered more protection against hostile takeover bids because directors are required to take into account the interests of all stakeholders in the business, not just shareholders.Neil Wilson, a senior market analyst at ETX Capital, said: “The Kraft Heinz bid was a massive wake-up call. Unilever realised it needed to do more for shareholders but it also has to improve margins – the appeal of Kraft’s bid was being able to squeeze far higher margins out of the business – bribes alone won’t work.”