I’ve been talking about my app idea, “Tinder for friends!”, for years. I wasn’t exactly first, given that apps for friendship were already in existence but that didn’t stop me from feeling thoroughly vindicated to read that this month dating app Bumble (which has the satisfying rule that only women can make the first move) had launched BFF.BFF is a feature within the Bumble app that allows people in need of a new hang to swipe through potential matches to find like-minded folk. What it really is, though, is a validation of the new ways we find people in a world that is increasingly connected, yet, often, never more lonely.Good friends are hard to find – and even harder to keep | Tim Lott Is it odd to swipe through a series of geo-located, aesthetically pleasing individuals to line up a coffee date with some random? Well, maybe. But as anybody who has been told that they should “get a hobby” in order to “meet new people”, or has ever moved cities or countries can attest, it can be hard to make new friends as an adult once the student years are over. And anyway, courting a new friend is kind of like dating (“want to grab a coffee some time?” or “what’s your relationship like with your mother?”), just without the angst of vetting a potential life partner during happy hour and wondering whether you could, in fact, marry a man that neglected to mention on his online dating profile that he didn’t have any teeth.As Abby Green wrote in the Washington Post of her experience trying out BFF, perhaps the best thing about the app is the difference between looking for friendship and looking for love is that you have a few more gaps on your dance card.  With friendship, we have many vacancies and can fill those spots with different types of people. But with romantic love, people are usually looking for one person, which means there’s a lot of pressure to present the best version of yourself on dates. There was no pressure to be this woman’s only friend – and that gave me the freedom to worry less about rejection and focus more about being myself.In what is shaping up to be golden time for the celebration of female friendship in popular culture – from Abbi and Ilana’s (mostly) platonic love affair for each other on the TV show Broad City, to Taylor Swift’s mega squad – the focus on actively finding new friends makes sense. It should be celebrated. Because apps for friendship speak to the way friendship has shifted – to become something valued and essential, something to seek out and something that comes in many forms. Is it just me... or does everyone lose friends in their 30s? Like the friend that you met on Twitter because you were both live-tweeting The Bachelor, or the women whose aesthetic you admired on Instagram and asked out for a drink. These friendships have the same value as the friends you grew up with, or the ones that came into your life by default – and perhaps more so, because you chose them for their values, their opinions, their A-game #foodstagrams.Indeed some of the best women I know I met on the internet. I told them first when my sister died. I’ve sent them countless first drafts of articles and always valued their opinions. Women whose posts about their dogs and their babies and articles they loved, I have voraciously liked and retweeted. I sign up to their newsletters and read their latest blogs. Our interactions online are a kind of love language, and all those emails and long-running G-chats and double-taps add up to something. A friendship that is important if not rigidly defined. I don’t see my internet friends as much as I used to, we’re scattered all over the world, with different lives and other friends who fill in the gaps. But sometimes it might be more fitting that way; talking on the internet was how we met, it’s a connection that feels comfortable. But more importantly, it feels necessary.In a piece for the New Republic, Jenna Wortham said, “The Internet represents a broadening of the spectrum of relationships we can have.” And that is something worth swiping for. 