The city of Seattle is seeking a writer for a unique residency: in one of the towers of its Fremont Bridge, which crosses the Lake Washington Ship Canal.The selected writer – who could be a poet, fiction or “creative non-fiction” author – will receive $10,000 (£7,000) to work in the space for three months, and is expected to “undertake an in-depth exploration of the bridge” and write a literary response to the experience, to coincide with the 100th birthday of the structure in 2017.Reading American cities: books about Seattle The residency will occupy the northwestern tower of the bridge, a room measuring 13ft by 8ft, with a 10ft ceiling and a stairway coming up through the space. It’s furnished with a desk, chair, overhead lights, windows and an air-conditioning unit. Given that the space has no toilet, kitchen or running water, it’s a mercy that the residency is not a live-in appointment. The chosen writer will be able to use the facility as a “studio, a platform for observing the bridge and its surroundings, or as a base from which to interact with the community”. The writing residency is part of a ongoing exploration by Seattle’s arts and transport bodies into how to integrate more art in the streetscape. Eligibility requirements include being established professionally – no students – and living in or within 100 miles of the northwestern US city.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Seattle’s Fremont Bridge in action during the opening of the Lake Washington Ship Canal on 4 July 1917. Photograph: Ashael Curtis/Seattle Photograph CollectionBecause Seattle has so many waterways, the city has an unusual number of drawbridges with towers, many unused: out of the Fremont Bridge’s four towers, only one is currently being used by an operator. Opened in 1917, the Fremont rises to let boats through an average of 35 times a day, making it one of the busiest bascule bridges – movable bridges that swing upward – in the world.Artist Kristen Ramirez was selected for the first, and only so far, artistic residency in Fremont Bridge in 2009, when she produced a temporary sound installation combining oral histories from the community. “It was one of the highlights of my life and career as an artist,” said Ramirez, now Seattle’s public art project manager. “I will never forget it, and I’ve never understood why the residency went dormant after that time. Since I came into this job in April, I’ve figured out how to resurrect it, because it was so valuable and unusual.”Kristen Ramirez’s work Bridge Talks Back“I was struck by the noise,” she said of her time in the bridge, her experience soundtracked by boats honking to signal the bridge to open. The “stark” room has windows all around, offering a 360-degree view – “so you’re quite exposed,” remembered Ramirez. “It’s not a refined little space, it’s urban infrastructure and it feels that way. It’s also 100 years old and it feels that way.”Books about Seattle: readers’ picks Having had the experience herself, “and knowing it’s not a great space for a visual artist to create things physically,” it was decided a project would be picked for the bridge’s birthday.Interest has already been “absolutely overwhelming” according to Ramirez, with screenwriters, lyricists, novelists, poets and comic writers getting in touch. “We’d like to leave the final delivery open to that person’s experience of the space,” she said. “The project roughly calls for a celebration of the bridge and its meaning to the city, but it can be in a metaphorical sense.”A second residency for a “lighting artist” has also been announced, with an opportunity to stay in three of Seattle’s bridges – University, Fremont and Ballard – all of which are currently unlit. 