Jeremy Clarkson has apologised to the former Top Gear producer he punched after settling a £100,000 racial discrimination and personal injury claim.Oisin Tymon launched the action against Clarkson and the BBC after the presenter gave him a bloody lip in a bust-up last March.Clarkson reportedly flew into a rage after being told he could not order a sirloin steak after a day of filming, allegedly calling Tymon a “lazy, Irish cunt” during a confrontation at a hotel in North Yorkshire.BBC gives TV bosses a sneak peek of Top Gear – including Chris Evans feeling sick Tymon’s lawyers, Slater & Gordon, revealed the case has been settled.In an apology issued through the law firm, Clarkson said: “I would like to say sorry, once again, to Oisin Tymon for the incident and its regrettable aftermath.“I want to reiterate that none of this was in any way his fault.“I would also like to make it clear that the abuse he has suffered since the incident is unwarranted and I am sorry too that he has had to go through that.“I am pleased that this matter is now resolved. Oisin was always a creatively exciting part of Top Gear and I wish him every success with his future projects.”No details of the settlement were given, but it is understood to be in excess of £100,000. Clarkson and the BBC both contributed.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Oisin Tymon is understood to be receiving more than £100,000 from Jeremy Clarkson and the BBC after settling his racial discrimination and personal injury claim. Photograph: BBC Worldwide/PAThe BBC dropped Clarkson from Top Gear following the incident, and his co-presenters, James May and Richard Hammond, also left.Jeremy Clarkson: BBC throws out Top Gear tour complaint Clarkson has reportedly tried to apologise to Tymon before, and last June he tweeted that he was “so sad and sorry it’s ended like this” after his last Top Gear show with Hammond and May was aired.Tymon’s lawyer, Paul Daniels, from Slater & Gordon, said: “The action involving Mr Tymon has been concluded. Oisin is keen to put the matter behind him now that it has been brought to a close.“Oisin greatly appreciates all of the support he has received, including from the BBC. He remains focused on the creative work he loves at the BBC.”Tymon is working at the BBC and has been promoted to a new role as a development executive. He was previously an assistant producer on Top Gear. It is understood that he will have had to sign a compromise agreement with the BBC over the settlement which will restrict him from criticising the corporation. A BBC spokesman said: “The action involving Mr Tymon and the BBC has been resolved.“Oisin is a valued member of the BBC who behaved with huge integrity in dealing with the very difficult circumstances last year – a situation in which, as Tony Hall has stated, he was completely blameless. “We are pleased that matters have now been resolved. Oisin has made an important contribution to the BBC in his 12 years with us, and we hope to see him continue to realise his potential in his role as a development executive. “We believe Oisin has a very exciting future at the BBC.”Clarkson, May and Hammond have signed up to launch a rival show on Amazon’s TV service, while Chris Evans is currently filming a new series of the BBC’s Top Gear show with fellow presenters Matt LeBlanc and Eddie Jordan.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Drone pilot unwittingly films new Top Gear presenter Rory Reid driving for the new series