It’s 1980s Australia and Louise and Allen’s marriage looks set to be shattered. A corrupt political power struggle within the Australian Labor party has threatened the shared socialist worldview that brought them together; closer to home, rampant societal misogyny puts pressure on the gender equality for which they had strived.Yael Stone on Orange is the New Black: 'I wasn’t Sapphic enough to play Nicky' The pair are played by Yael Stone and Dan Spielman, a New York-based Australian couple who are on a break from rehearsals in the foyer of Sydney’s Belvoir Street Theatre. They’re feeling invigorated but challenged by the intense dialogue of Stephen Sewell’s remounted play The Blind Giant is Dancing – first produced by the Lighthouse Acting Company in Adelaide in 1983 and last seen on Belvoir’s stage in 1995.It’s a week until opening night and the set is being bumped in upstairs. A snippet of the cricket jingle C’mon Aussie C’mon can be heard above, a reminder that this play is set more than three decades ago, in an Australia that’s still alive in many memories: brimming with sporting pride but fearful of job security as Labor, once the workers’ party, begins tearing down tariffs and protections.Best known as inmate Lorna Morello in the hit US Netflix series Orange is the New Black, here Stone plays Louise Kraus, a 30-year-old refuge worker who sees marriage as “uniquely linked to patriarchy and capitalism” and the domestic home as “a political playground”, says Stone.Spielman, 36, plays the lead, Louise’s husband Allen Fitzgerald – a 39-year-old Marxist economist and Labor socialist left number cruncher. New to the harsh rules of capitalism, he becomes embroiled in a power struggle: the socialist must become a selfish capitalist, and a corrupt one by association. “People like Allen, who had dedicated their lives to politics, felt that everything was slipping away,” says Spielman, of the time.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Married in real life, Yael Stone and Dan Spielman ‘have to try and be careful’ of the impact this play could have on their relationship. Photograph: Brett Boardman/Belvoir Street theatreIn every scene, Stone and Spielman’s characters are in heated intellectual dispute and the stakes continue to rise. It’s acting but it’s complicated: they’re married in real life, too. “We just have to try and be careful,” says Stone, 30, of the potential for personal impact.“It’d be naïve of us to think that acting these scenarios day in, day out doesn’t wear [on us], somehow,” Spielman says, “and so we talk about it.”They have acted together before: in the 2011 Malthouse Theatre production of Lally Katz’s play A Golem Story, Stone played a woman robbed of her fiance and her memory; Spielman played a rabbi’s student. They first met some time earlier, when Spielman approached Stone in a theatre foyer. (“I said, ‘I think you’re great,’” he says. “She had no idea who I was.”) I have concerns about the way the way the women end their stories [in the play] … it’s not a happy and empowered ending.Yael Stone “We know a lot of other couples who are both actors,” says Stone. “Some don’t talk about work at all. It’s a really interesting discussion for us.”Sydney-born Stone and Melbourne-born Spielman married in New York in 2012. The day after, Stone took her ruby red lipstick, invented accent and slight hangover to a second audition for the US Netflix hit series, where she won the role of Morello.Earlier this month, Netflix ordered an unprecedented three more seasons of Orange at once, after the series’ ensemble scooped a Screen Actors Guild award. It’s the kind of quick shot at fame that can leave actors reeling: they laughed about the gossip press coverage of Stone with her Orange co-stars on a Hawaii beach in December, which disregarded Spielman as a “tour guide”, he says.“Yeah, that was pretty weird,” nods Stone. “I [see] a picture like that and I’m intimidated by it, certainly.” But she’s in love with the show and its fans, and now participates in a New York yoga circle for women who have been released from prison in real life. For his part, Spielman will again appear as investigative journalist Ned Banks in the next season of critically lauded ABC political thriller series The Code, filmed in Canberra. The show won a swag of AACTA awards, as well as a best lead actor nomination for Spielman. “Since we’ve moved to New York I’ve got – ironically, hilariously – better and more job opportunities [in Australia] than before I left,” he says.But both are theatre creatures at heart. It’s Spielman’s first time on this particular stage (he’s appeared at Sydney Theatre Company and Bell Shakespeare in the past), but Stone is well-acquainted with the Belvoir foundations – equity, ensemble and a political bite – that are writ large in Blind Giant. Before her success in Orange, she starred in several Belvoir productions, among them Ladybird, Scorched, Summer of the Seventeenth Doll and As You Like It. But it was her roles in the Belvoir productions The Diary of a Madman, opposite Geoffrey Rush, and The Book of Everything – both of which toured to New York – that set the actress on a new course: streaming screen stardom.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Yael Stone has a long history with Belvoir, including playing opposite Geoffrey Rush in The Diary of a Madman. Photograph: Brett Boardman/Belvoir Street theatreAfter spending the past three years working with one of the most talented ensembles of women on television, she admits she has been mulling the depiction of women in Sewell’s play. “I’ve not said this out loud to anyone outside the rehearsal room,” she laughs, hesitating, “but I have concerns about the way the way the women end their stories … it’s not a happy and empowered ending for any of the women and that’s an interesting decision by Stephen. It may be a comment on the system at large, and how powerful that is, or it may have a darker influence.”The political corruption and sexual harassment that pervades the Australia of Blind Giant still sits “unpleasantly well” in 2016, says Belvoir’s artistic director, Eamon Flack, who is directing this production. “It’s incredibly direct,” he says. It’s also worryingly relevant: “Repeatedly reading the newspapers throughout rehearsals, you find lines from the play spoken by [current] politicians in strife.”But while this work may have the speed of Aaron Sorkin, Flack says the size of its ideas is more like those of Sophocles. The main characters speak a language of idealism that sounds almost anachronistic today. “I feel like idealism today has been replaced by glib, moral slogans; that the left has become a sort of moral Tupperware party,” Flack says.Sewell dedicated the play to Salvador Allende, the Marxist president of Chile who died while fascist forces stormed the Moneda Palace in 1973. In Blind Giant, a Chilean exile named Ramon Gris is the one who persuades Spielman’s character to compromise on his values by cutting a political deal. Gris lost several family members to Pinochet’s purge and, as corruption engulfs Fitzgerald, Gris pulls himself back: “If all that was left of me was hate it would be best for everyone for me to be in the grave!”In this production, Ramon Gris is played by Ivan Donato, who has a very similar family history: his Chilean family migrated to Australia in 1987, the year after Donato was born. Both his parents were politically active during Pinochet’s time and his paternal grandfather, the head of the electricians’ union and a Communist party member, was detained in 1976 and disappeared.Years later, the family discovered his grandfather had been tortured, given a lethal injection and tossed into a river somewhere. “It’s not like you feel a burden to play this role, but you feel a sense that you’re speaking on behalf of many people who never had a voice,” Donato says.“It’s kind of sad, because not many people speak the way Ramon speaks any more – about truly believing in the power of people and what people can do, if they work together collectively.”The Blind Giant is Dancing opens at Belvoir Street Theatre on Wednesday 17 February.