I am in London, talking to “new media artist” Jeremy Bailey in Canada via Skype. We are both watching a puddle. In Newcastle. Two people, three cameras, at least five screens and one giant puddle. “I love this!” cries Bailey. “The whole industrial, military machine for this! To watch a puddle in Newcastle.”Of course he does. Always enthusiastic, often awkward, sometimes topless, Jeremy Bailey’s video persona gives a playful and eccentric drubbing to the tech industry. To the idea that one piece of kit, one patent, one software programme or platform will cause a social, aesthetic or cultural revolution. “I’ve always thought that was strange,” he says. “In the history of aesthetic development, it’s generally a shift in ideology that’s helped us progress. So what I’m trying to ask is: what if it was less about technology and more about the person?” Bailey’s work will soon feature in Electronic Superhighway (2016-1966) a Whitechapel Gallery exhibition exploring the impact of computer and internet technologies on artists over the past half century.“Electronic Superhighway is a term you might not have heard for 30 years – that sounds kind of cheesy now – but it was originally coined by Nam June Paik, who’s one of my heroes,” says Bailey. “In the 1970s, Sony released this video camera for the consumer market and, so the story goes, Nam Jun Paik walked into a department store, bought one off the shelf, made a film to be shown in the gallery that night and, boom, video art was born.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Web I Want: a 2015 video by Bailey about wearable tech.Bailey currently juggles his own video projects with a teaching gig at New York University’s engineering school and work at a tech company. “An accounting software company,” he clarifies, laughing. “It literally destroys dreams. But that’s how artists get by; they work in accounting.”  My first sexual experience was a chat-room thing. But it's no less real. It still had an effect on me When he was 10 years old, Bailey’s parents mortgaged their house so he could buy a computer that would edit video. “So much of my memory is hunched over the computer, first thing in the morning, making a birthday card for my mum or playing video games with my brother,” he says. “Almost my entire childhood was lived within a Mac computer. Even my first sexual experience was a chat-room thing; it wasn’t a girl at school – because that wasn’t going to happen. It was like a 40-year-old woman in Nebraska. But it’s no less real. It still had an effect on me.”The Whitechapel show includes a section of Bailey’s patent drawings – hand-drawn line sketches of ludicrous, fantastical inventions, like a wearable augmented unicorn face for display on the internet, or the snappily titled Apparatus for the Display of Wearable Augmented Reality 3D Primitive Skeleton with Reactive Physics for Dance on the Internet.“There’s always speculation on tech sites about what people like Apple are going to do next, which means hounding their patent drawings for clues,” he says. “But they’re absurd drawings, done in such a crude fashion that you could really see the human behind it.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bailey’s Patent Drawing #7 (2013). Illustration: Jeremy Bailey/Pari Nadimi GalleryIt’s this intersection between the tech and the person who made it, wants it and uses it that inspires much of Bailey’s work. His own grandfather had a patent registered in the UK. “I’d always heard from my family that he was involved in the invention of neon light, but it turns out that’s completely false. The only invention I could find attached to his name was a little cap for sauce bottles that prevented the sauce from dripping down the side of the bottle. It’s such a domestic, pedantic invention, and I’d built him up as this life-changing inventor.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Aristarkh Chernyshev’s Loading (2007), part of Electronic SuperhighwayLove it or hate it, Bailey’s awkward brand of humour sets him apart. “Engineers and students have been taught that technology is serious – that they shouldn’t be playful,” he says. “But experimentation leads to some of the most radical ideas. I had a teacher at art school called Colin Campbell, who was incredibly queer in all of the most marvellous ways. All of his videos were in drag and he showed me that art could be funny.” Later he discovered the artists Vito Acconci and Martha Rosler “who were critical while being funny, which is like winning the Olympics to me.”Humour, I venture, is also a handy tool to deflect negativity. “The comment section is always more fertile than the content itself,” says Bailey, sounded genuinely sanguine. “The comments on my videos tend to be trolling sort of stuff. Before YouTube I would get the most hateful messages on my website – people just annoyed that I existed. But I actually think there’s vulnerability in every troll.” I am taken aback. “I might behave in a different way online,” explains Bailey. “The internet gives me that permission – but for me that’s a real positive. It’s allowed me to explore different points of view. And that’s what satire has always done.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A visitor watches Rafael Lozano-Hemmer’s Surface Tension (2007), also included in Electronic Superhighway.How does Bailey want visitors to approach his work? As a scathing takedown of our tech-obsessed consumerist greed? As a topless online dance party where everyone’s invited? As just another white guy playing with his pencils and programming software? “They should go down there prepared to have fun and think about tech in a way that they think they’re not allowed to,” he answers.“People often feel that they’re at fault – that they’re too stupid to work technology or that they’re not good enough. So I want people to go in there and feel great about themselves. They can be more powerful or interesting than Apple or Google can ever be; their voice is important, however marginal they may be. Technology has built a load of tools to allow us to express ourselves however we like; not how they tell us to.” It’s a Marxist satirical art dream, with unicorn faces. ‘It is a dream,” says Bailey. “But it’s also a reality.’ • Electronic Superhighway is at Whitechapel Gallery in London from 29 January to 15 May.