As anyone with a vagina will tell you, there are a bunch of non-hormonal factors that affect sex drive. Show me a pair of Crocs, for example, and I’ll show you one very, very dry vagina. But it makes sense that these chemical messengers that control most major bodily functions should affect our sexual function, too.For a long time, scientists didn’t bother to find out anything about female sexual desire (presumably because they thought we didn’t have any). It’s been well established that libido tends to decrease with age, particularly after menopause. But the handful of studies that attempted to look at changing hormonal levels and sexual desire during a period cycle have largely proved inconclusive. Until a study published in 2013 in the journal Hormones and Behavior in 2013 found evidence of a correlation between the two.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Vagina Dispatches: Stopping PeriodsResearchers at the department of psychological and brain sciences at the University of California, Santa Barbara, recruited 43 women into their study. As well as tracking their menstrual cycles and collecting daily saliva samples, the researchers gave the women a questionnaire. Each day, the women were asked “How much did you desire sexual contact yesterday?” (they were given a 1–7 scale) in addition to behavioral questions about whether they had masturbated, had sex and, if so, who had initiated sex.Then, the researchers looked at the women’s levels of two main hormones produced by ovaries – estrogen and progesterone. There were two main findings.Estradiol, which is a type of estrogen, seemed to positively correlate with sexual appetite (more estradiol, and two days later, more desire) while progesterone seemed to suppress sexual desire within a day or two. Both of those hormones fluctuate over the course of a menstrual cycle, as I’ve tried to show in the diagram below.The basic takeaway is that women are likely to feel their sex drive be at its highest during ovulation – in the middle of their menstrual cycle, about 14 days before they get their next period. Evolutionarily speaking that is a good thing, since that is also when fertility is at its highest.For some women, it’s not just the hormones – the mere fact of seeing red could affect their sex drive, too. On the site Go Ask Alice, a woman who identifies as “menses maiden” explains that she often feels hornier when she’s on her period and asks if she is weird. Alice (who, in reality, is a team of Columbia University health specialists) replies that it can work both ways.Because the chances of pregnancy are slightly lower while a woman is menstruating, that may psychologically enable some women to feel more sexual. There are other potential advantages to period sex, too – the blood can act as a lubricant, which makes penetration less painful – and if you’re lucky enough to orgasm by the end of it, that can help relieve cramps. On the other hand, some women might feel less aroused if they find period sex gross or if (as is my case) the pain of feeling like someone is using your uterus as a squeezy toy doesn’t exactly make you feel turned on.Those different reactions aren’t really so surprising though. For the past 10 months, Mae Ryan and I have been working on a video series called Vagina Dispatches. Again and again we come back to the fact that all women are different physically, emotionally and psychologically.