The call by John Blackwell, head of the British Veterinary Association, to ban the religious slaughter of animals is, in fact, in accordance with the recommendation repeatedly made by the Farm Animal Welfare Council (Top vet calls for reform of halal and kosher slaughter practices, 6 March). FAWC's advice was first set out in 1985 and then reaffirmed in 2003: the "council considers that slaughter without pre-stunning is unacceptable and that the government should repeal the current exemption". However, both the Thatcher and Blair governments rejected the advice. The reasoning of the Department for Environment, Food, and Rural Affairs in 2003 was that "the government is committed to respect for the rights of religious groups and accepts that an insistence on a pre-cut or immediate post-cut stun would not be compatible with the requirements of religious slaughter by Jewish and Muslim groups".In other words, heightened religious sensitivities, combined with the fear of Jewish and Muslim religious lobbies, have led to successive governments ignoring the advice of their scientific advisers and the pleas of animal welfare organisations. By so doing, they have provided an exemption to the law on animal cruelty, which not even advocates for fox hunting are granted.It is important to note that a number of other European countries have already outlawed religious slaughter (including Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and Poland); those countries that take the prevention of cruelty to animals seriously ought to follow suit.Dr Rumy HasanSPRU – Science & Technology Policy Research, University of Sussex• As a vegan for more than 30 years I am fascinated by those outraged over halal/kosher slaughter. I sincerely hope they never eat animal flesh or dairy products abroad, as "humane slaughter" (an oxymoron) is not practised in so many parts of the world. Do all those in high dudgeon over this issue ever holiday in destinations like Turkey, Egypt, Tunisia, Indonesia, Dubai? Do they go vegan while there? My guess is most don't. Worldwide, 60bn animals a year are intensively bred, fattened and slaughtered, and the meat industry is growing. The livestock industry is a ruthless and brutal one. Animals are a "product", a "crop" to be "harvested".Of course, being squeamish Brits we kid ourselves that the 1bn animals killed in the UK each year had "nice" lives and went to the knife in a "humane" manner. It is a myth.Sara StarkeyTonbridge• The article about Jewish and Muslim animal slaughter (Our slaughter is humane, 7 March) reminded me that, as a junior technician at Liverpool University, I used to have to go to Liverpool's main abattoir to collect newborn calf blood for research into viral diseases including smallpox, influenza and German measles (rubella). I was an animal lover and a member of the RSPCA when younger. I witnessed at very close quarters the two forms of slaughter, the captive bolt and the Jewish method described in the article. The calves I saw killed by the latter method appeared to die cleanly and almost instantly. If I had to watch animal slaughter again, I would choose to witness this method every time.Colin KennyLiverpool