It’s astonishing that over 600 musicians and teachers have lined up (Letters, 6 April) to denounce Charlotte C Gill’s reasonable and not remarkably radical or controversial critique of music education (Music education is now only for the white and the wealthy, theguardian.com, 27 March). Why such a robust rebuttal? It’s even more astonishing that “improvisation” is not mentioned on either side of the argument. Improvisation is central to music-making: it complements and enhances all other technical and practical disciplines, and it is common to most genres and musical traditions worldwide. It probably also helps to improve educational attainment; and the ability to improvise – to think on your feet – is certainly a useful life skill for young people in an increasingly volatile and uncertain world (a world, moreover, that desperately needs more good music). Most people would agree that music education could be broader – more creative, more inclusive. Surely we should be better off discussing how this might be achieved, and get on with putting it into practice?Tony HaynesGrand Union Orchestra, London• I disagree strongly with the arguments advanced by your eminent music educators including Sir Simon Rattle about the importance of being able to read music. Aged 63, I have taught myself jazz saxophone to a reasonable standard over the last seven years essentially by ear, despite spending more than £5,000 on 500 hours of musical adult education. Music is essentially intended to be heard, not read, all over the world and going back through history. While I understand the importance of musical literacy to the western classical tradition, from which most of these eminent musicologists seem to originate, there are many musical traditions such as jazz and blues that have grown essentially aurally. As Billie Holiday once said: “Whatever we did, we did it by ear!” See my online short course teaching people to play aurally via Miles Davis’ Kind of Blue album: www.howtoplayjazz.org.  Gerry RogersLondon • Further to the excellent letter from the entire (or so it seems) musical establishment, making the case for good musical education versus the abandonment of formality, I am reminded of a jazz trumpet player of my acquaintance who defended his poor technique by claiming that to improve it would endanger his recreation of the truly primitive art of his New Orleans heroes. When asked how he might react to a genie offering to give him the technique of Håkan Hardenberger, his moral tussle with that fanciful possibility was palpable.Bob CaldwellDaventry, Northamptonshire • Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com•  Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters