It would be August, at the Fishstore, the family home in Mousehole, Cornwall. I’ve written a book about the house, which is where my late husband was brought up. It’s an old, oblong, industrial granite building that used to be for pilchard preparation – it has sloping floors where they used to scrape out the guts of the pilchards; where they’d sweep it all out.We’d sit at a long refectory table, looking out towards the island ahead. White sea spume, gulls swooping, little fishing boats, the Lizard peninsula in the distance.Fresh from Cornwall I’d be with my two sons, both very natural cooks. We’d have crab, which we always boil and pick together. It’s an event! We lay them out to cool, crack the legs and claws, then chop the body in half ... We like to mix the white and brown meat together with some vinegar to make a highly seasoned spread. The legs are what I like the most, winkling the meat out with my finger.I’d serve that with mayonnaise, butterhead lettuce and thin slices of salted cucumber, pickled in white wine vinegar, sugar and chopped dill. It becomes like a relish to counterbalance the crab.I’d have a just-baked sourdough loaf baked by Hedone - a restaurant in Chiswick - magicked down to Cornwall! A good crisp crust!With that, we’d drink my current favourite everyday wine – Tesco’s Picpoul de Pinet for £6!The main course would be a roast grouse, each. The birds would be lavishly stuffed with thyme and draped with a few rashers of streaky bacon. And bread sauce seasoned with onion, bay, quite a few cloves, black pepper and salt. Gravy would be the pan juices with a bit of red wine and redcurrant jelly. We’d also have parsnip game chips and a few, very fine green beans. Washed down with some red burgundy, chosen by my son Zac.To drink - some gorgeous Burgundy. My eldest son Zac (John) is retained by BBR so he has become the wine expert, so you’d let him choose the wine.It might then be nice to have a sliver of Roquefort or another nice blue cheese that’s very ripe to go with that Hedone bread …There’s a place called Jelbert’s in Newlyn, the next village. They have been making dairy ice-cream since just after milk rationing ended. The recipe has never changed: no eggs, just milk, only vanilla flavour. It is to die for.Alongside the ice-cream, we’d have one of two things: either some raspberries warmed in the oven with a little caster sugar, or blackberry and apple pie with shortcrust pastry. My mother used to make this pie to fill all four of us up; I seem to have inherited her talent for making shortcrust pastry.Lindsey Bareham is a food writer and cookbook author; lindseybareham.com.