Five of the six artists competing for the 2016 Jarman award for moving image art are women, exploring subjects as diverse as Alzheimer’s disease and Arab pop culture.Sophia Al Maria, Cécile B Evans, Shona Illingworth, Rachel Maclean and Heather Phillipson have been shortlisted alongside Mikhail Karikis for the £10,000 art prize, which is named after English film-maker Derek Jarman, who died in 1994.Now in its ninth year, the award honours UK artists working with film, video and moving image in all its forms and keeping Jarman’s “spirit of experimentation, imagination and innovation” alive. The work of this year’s nominees spans short films, animations, YouTube collages and multi-screen installations.Al Maria’s work explores the complexity and contradiction of modern life in the Middle East. In wildly different ways, Evans and Illingworth investigate ideas of human emotion and memory. Maclean is a creative scavenger of found sound for the screen. Karikis, whose work currently features in the Whitstable Bienniale, uses the voice as a sculpture material, while Phillipson houses her video art in giant feet and dogs that she makes herself. The shortlist “represents a riotous explosion of colour, sound, skill and distinctive imagery, but beyond the visuals are also some very serious, thought-provoking messages,” said Adrian Wootton, Film London chief executive. “As well as serving to shock, startle and entertain, great art has the power to cut to the very heart of contemporary culture.”The Jarman prize jury has a reputation for talent-spotting: former shortlistees Elizabeth Price, Laure Prouvost and Duncan Campbell went on to win the Turner art prize. This year’s winner will be announced on 28 November at the Whitechapel Gallery, whose director Iwona Blazwick is one of the six judges.As well as the £10,000 prize money, all six shortlisted artists will be commissioned to produce new work for Channel 4’s short film series Random Acts and their art will tour 11 galleries around the UK. Whatever the result of the main award, a woman is guaranteed to win the Jules Wright prize. Named after the late theatre director and founder of the Wapping Project, it honours the achievement of a female creative technician, this year in the field of film editing.‘A riotous explosion’: the six shortlisted artistsCécile B Evans   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The trailer forCécile B Evans, Hyperlinks or It Didn’t Happen (2014)Heather Phillipson   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest An excerpt ofHeather Phillipson’s Final Days (2015)Mikhail Karikis   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest An excerpt from Mikhail Karikis,Children of Unquiet, (2013-2014)Shona Illingworth   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest An excerpt ofShona Illingworth’s 216 Westbound, (2014)Sophie Al Maria   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Sophia Al Maria’sHow Can I Resist U? (2012)Rachel Maclean   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest An excerpt ofRachel Maclean’s Feed Me (2015)