Modern food moves at a bewildering pace. Where once, influences from star chefs would disseminate slowly and new products could take years to establish themselves, today rare ingredients and new dishes can proliferate online, globally, almost instantly. On Instagram, a coalition of food nerds – not just chefs, but (amateur) bakers, baristas, brewers and artisan producers – are generating a creative frenzy of new ideas and potential break-out trends.It is exhausting. It is exciting. The ideas are often ludicrous. Yet food’s appetite for the new is currently insatiable. The next menu you read will invariably be filled with words such as kefir (a fermented milk drink) or tsukune (Japanese chicken meatballs) that would stump all but the most painfully cool of diners. But, fear not. Together we can make sense of this head-spinning, at times stomach-turning world – with this, the ultimate hipster food glossary.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A unicorn-style rainbow cake. Photograph: Ian O'Leary/Getty Images/Dorling KindersleyUnicornIf you thought the freakshake was peak infantilisation for modern food, think again. Unicorn is all about turning cakes, bakes, shakes and even the occasional toastie into eye-watering, multicoloured monstrosities, using a rainbow of food dyes, sprinkles (known as unicorn food), edible glitters and tiny marshmallows. It has already spread (like devastating wildfire? contagious disease?) across Instagram and Pinterest, to, last month, ITV’s This Morning. At least, that cookery item was aimed at parents entertaining their kids at half-term, instead of ostensibly functioning adults who take this cutesy-wutesy, cartoon nonsense seriously.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jackfruit. Photograph: Getty Images/iStockphotoJackfruitWhopping great south-east Asian fruit being pulled hither and thither as vegetarians recognise its fibrous potential as an alternative to pork. Try the pulled BBQ jackfruit subs at Edinburgh’s Paradise Palms. Think: dude food without the crisis of masculinity.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Barbecued calecots and peppers. Photograph: Getty Images/iStockphotoCalçotsAn overgrown Catalan spring onion … or is it the Iberian leek? Either way, suddenly visible in ambitious UK restaurants where we heathens often eat the whole thing, not just the sweet white bulb, usually charred and eaten dipped in romesco. Brindisa’s traditional calçotada feast is served in London throughout March.Pét-natWine! Would you just stand still for a minute! No sooner had we got our collective head around orange wine (grapes fermented skin-on for greater complexity), natural wine (minimal chemical/mechanical intervention) and biodynamic wine (hippy, mumbo-jumbo wine) than up pops low-tech pét-nat – or pétillant naturale – a subset of softly sparkling, cloudy wines bottled midway through their first wild fermentation, to create raw, exciting plonk. Or unpredictable rubbish. Depending on your POV.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kalettes. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoKalettesHispi (cabbage) and crosnes (tiny Chinese artichokes) ran it close, but if you want to name-drop a fashionable vegetable this season, it has to be Kalettes, a trademarked kale/brussels sprout crossbreed that produces sprout-sized kale cabbages. Think of it as the new plango (the plum-mango hybrid) or a sequel to the cronut (the croissant-doughnut). Only less fun.Turbo G&TA G&T spiked with cold-brew coffee, which everyone (OK, the style mags after it blew up on “Insta”), is calling, “the new espresso martini”. Try a CBGT at the Mondrian hotel, London.Cacao nibsThe in-crowd loves to shroud trendy ingredients in linguistic mystery. Hence why these unprocessed shards of what we used to happily call cocoa beans are now referred to by their Spanish name (derived from the Aztec language, Nahuatl). These bitter, chocolatey pieces are scattered across everything from porridge to Michelin-star desserts.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Miso caramel (with ginger ice-cream). Photograph: Amit Lennon for the ObserverMiso caramelSalt? Using salt to season food? What are you, a barbarian? No. All the cool kids now use miso, with miso caramel (the new, super-charged salted caramel), promising to be its big, crossover hit. “You get the salinity but with added umami, making it more savoury and complex,” says chef Nick Grieves, who uses it with desserts at his Newcastle restaurant, the Patricia.#icemanpourInstagram-driven idiocy (do you see a theme emerging?) that – for reasons unknown – has seen craft beer “fans” take to pouring murky beers in a way that leaves the glass brim-full with zero head. Result: the beer looks horribly flat and is impossible to drink.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Turmeric latte. Photograph: Getty Images/iStockphotoGolden milkThe clean-eating cabal is really pushing turmeric’s health benefits, often in the form of this blend of nut milk and turmeric root, also known as a turmeric latte. Writing for Food52, Mayukh Sen concluded: “It’s a hideously awful drink.” He pointed out that in India, this bitter concoction (in Hindi, haldi doodh) is used to nurse sick children. Essentially, this is a Calpol cappuccino. But mystical. And romantic. Because ayurveda, yeah?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Poké. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoPokéThe collective term for various colourful, soy-dressed Hawaiian raw fish salads, poké (rhymes with OK, not bloke) is big news in London, at the likes of Island Poké and Ahi. It has yet to make serious inroads outside the capital. Make of that what you will.Matcha Mille crepe cakeMulti-layered pancake ’n’ cream stack infused and/or dusted with vivid green matcha tea. Think: the Incredible Hulk does Bake Off. Does it taste nice? No idea. But it looks stunning on Instagram, which, in 2017, is far more important.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: EddieHernandezPhotography/Getty Images/iStockphotoDankThe descriptor du jour (among craft-beer geeks keen to suggest they took drugs once), for IPAs that have a resinous, sticky, skunk weed character. Tip: up the ante by insisting you are “coming up too fast” on your 9% DIPA (double IPA).HorchataNo longer (to Brits) solely a confusing reference in a Vampire Weekend song, this creamy, chilled cinnamon-strafed blend of almonds, rice and water is enjoying a moment at authentic Mexican taco joints, such as Corazon in London and Barrio Comida in Newcastle.Root-to-shootNose-to-tail for the flexitarian generation; a waste-minimal ethos of cooking that embraces the whole plant. Damn tasty if we’re talking about deep-fried Jerusalem artichoke skin.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Two Georgian khachapuri. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoKhachapuriWant to freak out your hipster friends? Casually mention khachapuri. Recently tipped by Restaurant magazine, this Georgian speciality has a growing cult status in the US, but is largely unknown here (try it at London’s Little Georgia restaurants). However, it is only a matter of time before someone enterprising takes khachapuri – imagine a pizza-like dough-boat filled with cheese, eggs and butter – and makes it massive. What’s not to like?