Although many names were circulating in anticipation of ENO’s announcement of a new artistic director to fill the vacancy left by John Berry’s departure last summer, I doubt if Daniel Kramer’s was high on many people’s lists. At first sight he seems an unlikely choice for the role; though he’s regularly singled out as one of the most talented of the rising stage directors’ generation that has been mostly as a result of his work in the spoken theatre. His work in opera is quite limited to date – he is currently working at the Coliseum on ENO’s forthcoming Tristan and Isolde, which opens in June, but his previous experience consists of half a dozen shows, two for ENO – Birtwistle’s Punch and Judy at the Young Vic, and Bartók’s Duke Bluebeard’s Castle in the main house – together with Carmen for Opera North, Rufus Wainwright’s Prima Donna in Manchester and Pelléas et Melisande and Die Zauberflöte elsewhere in Europe.English National Opera appoints Daniel Kramer as artistic director How far beyond that his knowledge of the repertory and the operatic world goes, I don’t know. Perhaps he is a very quick learner. But as artistic director, he will be responsible for planning the repertory for coming seasons and for finding the directors to stage it, while presumably one of his first tasks will also be to help to find a new music director, following Mark Wigglesworth’s ill-timed departure last month.Yet it’s easy to understand why the company has not been able to choose a more experienced figure in the English-speaking opera world to take on the role. As the job description for the post made clear, whoever was appointed was going to have to report to the chief executive, Cressida Pollock, who by her own admission knows very little about opera, and presumably would have to get their artistic plans approved by her. For anyone who has spent their working life in the business and therefore might reasonably expect to exercise some artistic control, that might well have been one constraint too far.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Clive Bayley and Michaela Martens in Duke Bluebeard’s Castle, directed by Daniel Kramer at ENO in 2009. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianENO in crisis: who can keep the magic alive? Perhaps Kramer is now at just the right point in his career to relish what opportunities this appointment should give him. Presumably, though, he will also want to continue his wider directing career in parallel with what he does at the Coliseum, and in choosing someone for what will be a key role in the coming seasons, but for someone who may well be away from the company for significant periods of time, the ENO board is taking a calculated risk. The recent experience of the Royal Opera might have been salutary: for as that company seeks a replacement for its head of opera, Kasper Holten, who is leaving in a year’s time, Covent Garden is known to be looking for someone who, unlike Holten, is not an opera director but will be prepared to devote all their energy and time to what’s going on at Covent Garden.It could be that Kramer gets that balance right for ENO, and proves to be genuinely imaginative in what he programmes at the Coliseum and, one hopes, in other spaces . If not, those who greeted Berry’s departure last summer with such jubilation might feel they could have been more careful about what they wished for.