In autumn 2006, I’d just returned from a year of travelling after getting a first in economics at the University of Birmingham. I was 21, living back with my parents near Southampton and two weeks into a graduate position at the accountancy firm, KPMG. The future could not have looked brighter.I went back to Birmingham to catch up with some friends. After a curry, we headed back to the student union for old times’ sake. There had been an open day on campus so the fountain was on. I got the idea to jump in, and tried to persuade everyone to join me. We had had a few beers but we weren’t wrecked – it was just a laugh. At the end of the night, a mate and I decided to go for it. We ran towards it, but while he jumped in, I, for some reason, put my arms over my head and did a racing dive.I remember lying face down in the water, thinking, “OK, time to get out now,” but my legs wouldn’t work. I tried to use my arms to push myself out, but that wasn’t going to happen, either. I had just worked out that I couldn’t roll over when the security guard pulled me out.I was lying there, facing the sky, thinking, “This feels quite serious.” The paramedics arrived and in the ambulance it dawned on me that I was paralysed. But it didn’t occur to me for one moment that it would be permanent.I couldn’t feel anything from the chest down. Within half an hour I was shown my spinal x-ray in hospital. The doctor pointed to where my neck was broken. The bone was crushing my spinal cord. I asked him if I would walk again, and he told me he doubted it.I hadn’t got my head around the situation because one of the first things I did was call in sick to work. I told them, “Don’t worry, everything is going to be OK, but I’ve broken my neck and I’m paralysed.” They called my parents and said, “Concentrate on getting him better, then we’ll help him get back to work.”I fought hard to be optimistic, but I had to accept that I would use a wheelchair for the rest of my life. I couldn’t really do anything by myself and I will always need someone to wash and dress me. There were some very dark days, but I had something to work towards. Knowing my job was waiting for me gave me a purpose.Experience: my dad set me on fire Rehab was hard, but I stayed focused. At about six weeks I was able to sit in a wheelchair for about 25 minutes. I sat for a few more minutes each day, but it was excruciating. It must have been so hard for my family. I remember my parents watching me trying to take Wotsits crisps out of the bag, spilling them everywhere.After nine months, I could move around in a wheelchair. I went to live with my parents, and exactly one year after the accident I started work. I gradually increased my hours until, two years after the accident, I was able to start back on the graduate scheme. I passed my professional exams, but the need to reduce my workload meant I couldn’t excel.After a secondment, I got a job as a senior lecturer in accountancy at Southampton Solent University, which was a real boost. I also set up a wheelchair rugby club: returning to a sporting life was an important step. I went on to take a post at Southampton Business School, where I am now a senior teaching fellow.I’d put off thinking about relationships because I wanted to get to a point where my spinal injury was one of the least interesting things about me. But over time, I began to feel ready. I met Laura two years ago and now we are married. Proposing wasn’t easy – I wanted to do it on holiday, but I needed help hiding the ring. I ended up asking her over a takeout pizza.I feel lucky. I love my job, I play sport, and I have this incredible woman in my life. I do wonder what would have happened if I hadn’t dived into the fountain. If I could wake up and not be disabled, of course I would take that. But I wouldn’t undo my accident. I’ve achieved so much. And not everything has been despite the accident – some things have actually been because of it.• As told to Tillie HarrisDo you have an experience to share? Email experience@theguardian.com