Last week, the second season of Serial ended with less of a bang and more of a shrug. The show’s first season, which investigated an underreported crime, was wildly popular. It smashed all previous podcasting records upon its release in 2014, and helped introduce a broad audience to the possibilities of the format. Serial’s team, led by Sarah Koenig, even won a Peabody Award for their work. Expectations were incredibly high for the show’s second season, so it’s no surprise that it failed to meet them.Serial recap – season two, episode 11: Present for Duty Season two swapped a relatively obscure murder mystery for a very high-profile desertion – the case of Bowe Bergdahl. Even casual news readers had heard the story of the US soldier who walked off his base in Afghanistan, was taken prisoner by the Taliban, held for five years, and only released after the government released five Taliban leaders from Guantánamo Bay in exchange for Bergdahl’s freedom. The story had made headlines years before Serial decided to tackle it.While Bergdahl’s story had been covered exhaustively, including reports that he had been separated from the coast guard, diagnosed with a schizotypal personality disorder and may not have been fit for duty, Koenig and her team managed to add to the conversation. Not only did they let Bergdahl speak for himself, via a series of interviews with the film-maker Mark Boal, but they also asked and answered a question that no one – including the military or the US government – had seemingly bothered to investigate. Namely: did anyone die while searching for Bergdahl after he left base and was captured by the Taliban? It was an important question – and one on which Bergdahl’s reputation seemed to balance – but aside from anecdotal posturing, no one had actually tried to answer it before. Serial’s reporting showed that despite the strong beliefs of some of Bergdahl’s fellow soldiers and superiors, his poor decision cost no one their lives.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bowe Bergdahl. Photograph: US army/Handout/EPA There’s little doubt that Bergdahl’s defense team will bring up this point during his court martial. It was a well-reported element of an important story, but for listeners hoping for a follow-up to Serial’s blockbuster first season, it came across as, well, boring. The show’s central mystery – why Bergdahl walked off his post – took a back seat to a larger and more tenuous conversation about what it means when we, as a society, send young men to fight wars. Over the course of the season’s 11 episodes, Serial worked to untangle complex questions about what it means to be honorable, loyal and just in wartime, and what and when sins can be forgiven. The overarching story was subtle and nuanced and will probably earn a spot in the curriculum of journalism schools. It may even win Serial its next Peabody Award.Guilty pleasure: how Making a Murderer tapped into our weakness for true crime But it’s hard to make subtlety and nuance exciting enough to keep listeners’ attention for an entire season, especially for Serial fans hoping for at least some of the drama and intrigue of the show’s first season. This season had no cliffhangers. There was no Nisha phone call or Asia McLean or Best Buy phone booth. The show’s investigation into whether Bergdahl’s disappearance caused any deaths didn’t even come up until the last few episodes. Serial’s second season did not leave anyone (save Bergdahl’s defense team, perhaps) on the edge of their seat. When the show shifted from weekly to biweekly halfway through the season, it lost even more of its dramatic edge. In the end, it was like listening to a thinkpiece read aloud over the course of three months, riveting for some and dull as dry toast for others. It was also challenged by series such as Netflix’s Making a Murderer, which offered those keen for true crime another grisly, barely believable show to sink their teeth into.Serial was always meant to be experimental, starting with its serialized format, and it seems clear that season two was another attempt to try something new in podcasting – very, very long form reporting of a complicated case. Unfortunately, at some point season two ended up more as a podcast for journalists by journalists than a riveting tale for listeners. However, don’t give up on Serial just yet. There’s no doubt that Koenig and her team will apply the lessons learned from season two to future shows. Between their ability to find dramatic, underreported stories, as in season one, and their incredible reporting chops and ability to mine for subtle emotions, as evidenced by season two, Serial’s third season, whatever it holds in store, may be mandatory listening once again.