When Offspring first hit screens back in 2010, it gave us something we hadn’t had before: the realism of Australian dramas like The Secret Life of Us and Love My Way, but with a totally bonkers backdrop. Nina Proudman was unlike any other leading lady on Australian TV — distracted, overwhelmed, possibly psychotic.God, we relished in it. A woman like us! Sometimes a mess but doing her best – it was easy to see the appeal. Through dream sequences and flashbacks that offered insight into Nina’s true feelings about work, romance and endless family crises, Offspring told us it was fine to feel like an impostor, to be afraid or discombobulated or incapable. We knew it from the first episode, watching Nina’s meltdown at work, terrified someone would find out she didn’t know where her life was heading. Women hadn’t done that on Australian TV before. They hadn’t been allowed to make it up as they went along, bumbling through careers, love and friendships.The Kettering Incident review – Tasmanian gothic thriller par excellence But as the seasons went on, melodrama started to eke into Offspring. The Proudman family, clearly cursed by some ancient legend, were beset by endless tragedy. We forgave the show because the way they tackled it was new – not middle-distance stares or people back from the dead, but people coming together to problem solve, often finding strength in one another instead of conflict. The lightness, the relatability, the kind chaos of Nina faded. Her scatteredness became sadness, and what we’d seen of ourselves in her was harder to find. But John Waters was continuing to age in a way appropriate to our daydream fantasies. We needed to watch that happen. The show’s creator, Debra Oswald, said she felt the show reached its natural end in the last episode of season five, in 2014. But the show’s many devout fans weren’t ready to let go. Nina had a new love to explore, the looming highs and lows of motherhood, her sister’s unwavering support. There was still some story there. Offspring’s series return on Wednesday night – after much public support, and a petition – has come without the involvement of Oswald and her head writer Michael Lucas. Their absence has made fans nervous; this pair is a dramedy powerhouse, and with the Proudman essence so exquisitely crafted there’s skepticism anyone else can pull it off. But the main cast is back. Time has passed, and Nina’s daughter Zoe is older. Sneak peeks give clues about the amount of heartstrings it will pull (lots), the tears we’ll shed (loads) and the laughs we’ll have (heaps, hopefully).“Nina’s in a very different place from last season,” actor Asher Keddie says, in Channel 10’s behind the scenes video. The new season also welcomes TJ Power and brings back Patrick Brammall, Lawrence Leung and Dan Wylie, the do-no-wrong stalwart of the Australian TV scene. Comedy Showroom review – ABC offers a sometimes funny, strangely homogenous take on Australia But my hope from season six is a return to the original Nina: frazzled, confounded, lost in her imagination, but with amazing apartments. How will things change with a two-year-old? When I had a two-year-old, I ate whatever rubbish I found on the floor. Of course, there’s tragedy lurking: some huge event that will “see the Proudman clan tested like never before”. We’re also told to expect a bigger, better family secret. Secrets? In the Proudman family?Let’s hope this new season delivers what Offspring does best: love, sorrow, joy, broken hearts, love triangles, secret fathers, long shots of Melbourne’s inner north, and a terrifyingly loose hold on reality.This disorganised, bamboozled and oft-daydreaming writer needs a show like that. • Offspring’s season return airs on 29 June at 9.30pm, on Network Ten