      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Clitter Clatter. Photograph: Dominick TylerClitter/ClatterRelated terms: tor, scree, talusClitter in Devon, clatter in Cornwall - these are the piles of irregular granite boulders that litter and clutter the hillsides around tors. The sculpting of the tors began 280 million years ago, when the vast granite domes of Devon’s and Cornwall’s moorland were pushed up through the Earth’s crust. The final flourish was accomplished during the ice ages when water that seeped into fissures in the granite expanded as it froze and levered off rocks that then tumbled down hills. What remained a tthe top were the tors, and the arisings strewn at the bottom were the clitter, or the clatter. A fine example of this is Wistman’s Wood in the West Dart valley (pictured).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eagre. Photograph: Photograph: Dominick TylerEagreRelated term: BoreThis is the name given to tidal bores on fen rivers. One eagre occasionally runs eight miles inland, up the River Great Ouse to Wiggenhall, where it’s known as the ‘Wiggenhall wave’. At the distant bend in the river, there was a sudden little shrug on the water’s surface and a crease appeared. Moving slowly but steadily, the crease rolled upstream as the bore pushed its way against the flow.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Erratic. Photograph: Dominick Tyler Photograph: Dominick Tyler/PRErraticThese are large rocks that have been carried by glaciers that then melted and are left behind, waiting for a tide that may never come back in. This can happen to individual rocks or to a whole group, as with the Norber erratics near Austwick in Yorkshire, a whole pod of beached greywacke boulders stranded on a Carboniferous limestone pavement. The presence of massive blocks of stone conjured some imaginative local legends. If the solitary twenty-ton erratic boulder in the village of Merton was ever removed from its resting place, flood waters would rise and inundate the world.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fraon. Photograph: Dominick TylerFraonA Fraon offers sanctuary from the elements. In foul weather, finding a fraon under an overhanging cliff might well keep you alive. Many such places have been used as shelters for hundreds of years and over time short-term tenants may have improvised additions to the meagre facilities. Fraon is Gaelic but seems to be very seldom used.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jackstraw. Photograph: Dominick TylerJackstrawRelated terms: spheroblast, gall, burrNamed after a parlour game, this storm-felled tangle of tree presents a giant version of pick-up sticks for foresters, Jackstraws are most common at the edges of coniferous plantations, where closely planted rees are more exposed to winds. . Proximity to other trees means that root structures can intertwine and this can cause large areas to fall. Jackstrawed timber is kept off the ground and it also tends to be loosely arranged and thus well-ventilated. The wood therefore dries quickly and burns vigorously, providing the potential catalyst for forest fires.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pot. Photograph: Dominick TylerPotThe moors of north Yorkshire are punctured by holes big enough and deep enough to be given a wide berth by walkers and to incite gleeful investigation by cavers. These potholes are the entrances to vast networks of underground chambers and pasages, dissolved out of the limestone by the relentless flow of water. Though ‘pothole’ and ‘pot’ are more or less interchangeable terms, the former is used more for the opening and the latter for the space beneath. A pot is therefore a subterranean chamber that has an opening in its roof.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Scowle. Photograph: Dominick TylerScowleRelated terms: swallet, dean, deneIn and around the Forest of Dean the ground is a labyrinth of rifts and hollows, deep pits and tree-topped banks, all known locally as ‘scowles.’ For a long time they were believed to be the remains of ancient iron diggings. However, recent excavations suggest that while the scowles were clearly exploited for their iron-ore deposits, their structures were formed as a natural underground in the limestone that was later exposed at the surface. Their topographies make scowles a rich and seldom-disturbed habitat for plants, invertebrates and small mammals, especially bats.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stunpol . Photograph: Dominick TylerStunpolRelated terms: nurse log, daddock, stag-headedThee’s an old woodsman’s adage that a tree spends the first third of its life growing, the next third standing and the last third dying. In Dorset, trees that are well into this final third are called ‘stunpols’. They are often partially dead and broken-down. Their hearts are sometimes hollowed out with rot. Though such trees are often admired for their sculptural qualities and for their sense of dignified grandeur, to call someone a ‘stunpol’ is to imply profound decrepitude.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Thundereggs. Photograph: Dominick TylerThundereggsRelated term: geodeThere is broad consensus about the geological origins of thundereggs: gas bubbles that form in flows of molten lava are filled with crystaline minerals harder than the surrounding rock. Many thousands of years of subsequent erosion reveal spherical rocks that can be cracked open to reveal gem-like cores. Wales is one of a few places you can find these outside the US, and here they are known as ‘wyau cerrig (stone eggs).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Zawn. Photograph: Dominick TylerZawnRelated term: geoZawn is derived from ‘sawan’, a Cornish word for chasm. These steep-sided coastal inlets are formed by wave erosion on weak spots in the cliff face. In taller cliffs, zawns can be formed when waves carve out a cave that grows until its roof collapses completely. This one is at Nanjizal beach, a few miles south of Land’s End, and is called Zawn pyg.To buy Uncommon Ground for 11.99 (RRP 16.99) visit bookshop.theguardian.com or call the Guardian Bookshop on 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p on online orders over £10. A £1.99 charge applies to telephone orders.