Just over my left shoulder, as I sit here on my sofa, is a cat. Her name is Zelda. Any minute now, she’ll hop down, have a stretch, contribute some dfdfdfdfds to this article, sit vacantly for a while on the coffee table, then return to her post for a light snooze. In return, I’ll fill her bowl and sing, “You are a cat” at her, to the tune of U Got the Look by Prince.For I am a male cat owner – a “cat dad”, if you must – and apparently there are loads of us now. Cats are “stealing the hearts of UK men”, reports a delighted BBC, following a survey that found 17% of UK men now have a pet cat, up from 13% in 2016. Why might this be, a nation asks. In short, because social media is essentially a cat PR machine, and because men will do anything to appear attractive to the opposite sex. Why not get a cat? Their delights are manifold, and perhaps men have only just cottoned on But also, why not get a cat? Their delights are manifold, and perhaps men have only just cottoned on. What makes cats such fascinating pets is there’s just enough of us in them. Zelda gets hungry, thirsty, lazy, snappy, lively, curious – sometimes she just wants a tummy rub. Who can’t relate to all that? And it’s all done with a sense of “mystery” that, let’s be honest, is probably just low intelligence (Zelda isn’t the sharpest tool in the box: you should see her trying to penetrate a pair of long curtains). Either way, it’s a cracking combo.Then there’s all the other stuff, like their deep commitment to relaxation, which is admirable and contagious – indeed pets are quite simply good for your health. Cats are funny, too. Funnier than I was expecting. Somebody should do a gif of one. Then there’s the sniffing – always with the sniffing. They’re also blissfully unselfconscious: they have the kind of innocence that children lose for ever when they start posing for photos, getting fancy haircuts, shoplifting etc.As you may have gathered, Zelda is my first “proper” pet, with apologies to Huxley the hamster. I helicoptered her heroically out of Battersea Dogs and Cats Home (they’ve branched out) in 2013. If you are one of those loser guys who doesn’t have a cat, I’d recommend going rescue – you’re doing a little good, and you’re also probably getting a more … “interesting” character. By which I mean, Zelda’s a bit fight-y.Now this is perhaps my favourite aspect of her. She basically comes with an unwritten user manual of where she can and can’t be touched (mind you, don’t we all). Innocent visitors see that goddamn face, and like a moth to the flame, they go in for the stroke. Inevitably, they get it wrong. Swipe. It’s a planting of a flag, a Vinnie Jones reducer. “Welcome to the house,” it says. “Now leave me alone until I’m ready for a head massage.” I swear, there isn’t a toddler who’s entered the building who hasn’t been bleeding within minutes. When I take her to the vet, it’s a team effort to pin her down for a check-up, like the police trying to arrest a Mitchell brother. After one particularly unsuccessful appointment, the vet described her as a “bloody Spitfire”. I’ve never been so proud.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   There’s all the other stuff, like their deep commitment to relaxation, which is admirable and contagious – indeed pets are quite simply good for your health Photograph: Paul FleckneyWithout wanting to go all George Monbiot on you, I love this low-level rewilding of my living room. I’m a nature lover living in the city, so have to take whatever I can get, and cats seem that bit more untameable than those tongue-flapping surrender monkeys, dogs. I love urban foxes for the same reason: London is a staggering achievement of human endeavour, and yet these streetwise survivors are still here, slinking through railings, trotting across roads, freaking people out with their depraved sex noises. Ironically, and thankfully for me as a birder, Zelda is rubbish at killing things. She can’t be bothered. She just sits inside and cackles manically at the array of tits, face like a cracked meringue.What this survey doesn’t mention is age, and I bet it’s men in their 30s and 40s who are really behind all this. The theory of pets being a proxy for a child is an old chestnut, but it’s surely true, and maybe men are now embracing this. I contracted early-onset broodiness at the age of 27, and getting a cat has frankly been a godsend. You get to name it, for starters. What a thrill! A number of names were piloted – DJ Fuzznutz, Catlington, Cat, Dame Judi Dench – but it was Zelda that stuck.I therefore have the pleasure of nurturing a living thing, without having to sacrifice sleep or a social life (I promise I have friends too, absolutely loads of them). In fact, the only sacrifices I’ve had to make are privacy in the shower, and a roughly £50 annual spend on children’s plasters. Which makes me think having a cat is no more a preparation for fatherhood than having a basil plant. If anything, basil plants are harder to keep alive.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Cat dads have been briefly fashionable before, in 2013 when the Coen Brothers released Inside Llewyn Davis. A ginger tom is not only a star, he’s also a cunning cinematic device. As Llewyn (the main character) becomes gradually less likeable, it’s the cat that rescues your perception of him. As the Coens explained in interviews at the time, the cat was shorthand for “good guy”. Llewyn was all right deep down: he had a cat.Contrast this with The Simpsons’ Crazy Cat Lady character, who flings her felines around and screams blue murder. It’s deeply unfair of course that we chaps get a good name for having a cat while women get painted with the crazy brush. “Cat dad” even sounds fun. Cat dad! It’s a jolly new demographic to look out for on public transport, like “soft Brexiteer”.Four years since Inside Llewyn Davis, the cat dad has truly gone mainstream. Today we have A Street Cat Named Bob, a sort of Ed Sheeran to the Coens’ Dylan. The modern “sensitive guy” now expresses himself not in moisturiser and good shoes, but with a cat and a beard, and let’s face it, it’s not a bad option to have. Now if you’ll excuse me, I have a bowl to fill.Are you a man who owns a cat? Share your pictures and comments here.