The British public knew little of David Gest, who has died aged 62, before he burst on to our screens a decade ago to launch his reality television career. We’d perhaps seen that clip where he greets his new bride, Liza Minnelli, with the kind of kiss that could wear a dent in solid stone. And some of us may have watched that Ruby Wax special where she followed the newlyweds around for a few days as they cooed at each other and bought expensive jewelry. But he was otherwise a peculiar-looking mystery to us; friend to the Jacksons, record producer, showoff.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest But his memorable 2006 stint on I’m A Celebrity … Get Me Out of Here saw him while away his time in the Australian jungle, without the trappings of celebrity, with the telling of increasingly tall tales while nonchalantly batting away tarantulas and charming everyone in sight. And in just 18 days, he strangely endeared himself to viewers too as he plucked far-fetched stories from the air, telling Myleene Klass that his mother was a one-legged nun who gave him up for adoption and other disbelieving camp mates that his maid went by the name of Vaginica Semen. When he was bored, he made his own fun and the camera liked it.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest His appearances on UK television after that were frequent and always laced with baffling flights of fancy. In real life, this isn’t a trait most people look for in their friends, but as a reality television entity, he couldn’t have been better. When the camera was on him, his mind wouldn’t rest. Hardly any of his on-screen time featured humdrum musings on what was for dinner or who was going to do the washing-up. He was too busy cooking up the next batch of hooey to distribute, a big delighted smile on his face as he saw his colleagues bite the bait. He had to give the audience their money’s worth, by hook or by crook.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Another notch on his reality bedpost was Celebrity Come Dine With Me, a show in which four luminaries would take it in turns to host dinner parties for each other, competitively. When it was his turn, he borrowed a suitably swank penthouse and, at the opportune moment, wheeled out an ancient Mickey Rooney, assuming that the sheer stardust of his decrepit presence would be enough to earn him a few extra points. It was the kind of excruciating TV moment he became famous for. Rooney stood there, Gest hadn’t thought through what to do next and everyone looked a combination of impressed and embarrassed until the editor mercifully cut to a break.David Gest, TV celebrity and producer, dies Gest didn’t seem to understand normal human interaction, preferring (on camera anyway) to perform a series of stunts and set pieces in order to draw his audience to him. After his early appearances with Minnelli, where he mostly hid behind dark glasses and played the part of the moneyed music executive, he seemed to reinvent himself when he came to the UK as a solo act and his truly playful side came to the fore.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest His most recent appearance on Celebrity Big Brother (in January this year) is remembered for the tragic farce which ensued when fellow contestant Angie Bowie was informed of her ex-husband’s death from cancer and a series of misunderstandings led housemates to believe that Gest himself had passed away in the next room. But his time on that show saw him turning that mischief and sense of the absurd up to 11 as he frolicked with the younger contestants, taking any opportunity to shock and create moments for the cameras. In this age of celebrity generated purely from personality, he used his own particular oddness, fame-filled Rolodex and appearance to launch a whole new career as a television jester. Particularly in his most recent run on British TV, his self-awareness (warning the younger Big Brother contestants to stay away from plastic surgery and pointing to his own face) made him more loveable still. Who knows where that total abandon to his reality television fate would have led him next.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 