An Australian semiconductor company believes it is finally getting closer to “pay day”, more than a quarter of a century after its breakthrough technology first began taking shape at Sydney’s Macquarie University.Mushrooms, whales and hurricanes: how bio-inspiration boosts energy efficiency BluGlass, which operates out of a hi-tech factory in the Sydney suburb of Homebush, has signed two major deals in the past year that could see its technology deployed by some of the biggest LED light manufacturers in the world.Those deals have been struck with equipment company Veeco and Philips Lighting subsidiary Lumileds. The two are giants in the booming LED market, a market that is expected to grow by 45% a year over the next decade to more than $220bn as consumers focus on more efficient appliances. A $200bn LED market could mean about 100 less fossil fuel plants, meaning LED lighting could play a key role in decarbonising the global economy because of its energy savings. The details of the co-operation agreements with Veeco and Lumileds are confidential but if the work to be conducted over the next six to 12 months is successful then BluGlass is confident it will have a product it can licence and finally deliver to the market.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Wafer testing for new LED lighting technology by the Australian semiconductor start-up BluGlass. Photograph: BluGlassThat work began more than two decades ago at Macquarie University, which was a world leader in the development of LEDs. The name of the technology is a mouthful – remote plasma chemical vapour deposition (RPCVD). It is used for the production of high-efficiency devices such as light-emitting diodes (LEDs), power electronics and concentrated solar cells.Senior entrepreneurs: 'You've got to back yourself and give it a go' BluGlass technology is unique in that it can produce gallium nitrades – a key ingredient in LEDs – at a lower temperature than other technologies. This, in turn, means that the devices can be manufactured at lower cost and are more efficient, and therefore more friendly to the environment because less power is consumed. The technology is also said to be more easily scaleable.In 2006 the technology, the team and the patents were bought by BluGlass but it took until 2012 for BluGlass to prove that the technology works. That milestone was rewarded by support in the share market and winning the Australian Cleantech prize the following year.More importantly, it also paved the way for collaboration with Veeco and Lumileds. Lumileds is thought to be interested in improving the overall performance of their LEDs while Veeco is most likely interested in green LEDs, a notoriously harder-to-make LED than other colours that requires the added material indium. It is used for green traffic lights and TVs, mobiles and projectors.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Australian semiconductor company BluGlass tests their new LED lighting technology. Photograph: BluGlass“To describe it in a simple way, we are developing an alternative way of making LEDs,” says Giles Bourne, the chief executive of BluGlass.“The current way of making LEDs uses a reactor, it is a hot process, where heat is used to break a bond between materials.“We use a colder process [which] allows us to lift performance. That means higher efficiency and lower costs, and so higher margins for the producers.”The goal for BluGlass is to licence the technology to equipment and device manufacturers, or provide retrofitting kit to improve the performance of existing machines.The technology can also be used in specialised foundry work and BluGlass has a small income with “bespoke” foundry contracts at its Homebush base. These specialise in making epitaxial nitride wafers used in the semiconductor industry.Australian biofuels could transform airline industry and create jobs BluGlass is a rarity in Australia, being both a semiconductor technology start-up and a company listed on the stock exchange, currently with a market value of about $55m.Bourne says it has been a “godsend” because, in the absence of a large and sophisticated venture capital and private equity market in Australia, being listed has given the company access to money.The fact the listed company has had to comply with strict governance controls has also made it easier to access federal government grants and it has been grateful for the $15m it has received to date. “That has been crucial,” Bourne says.But Bourne says that the investors have been as patient as the team working on the technology for all these years. “What we are trying to show is that we have got a performance advantage. That is not a trivial task. It takes a long time. But we think the fruits of our labour are about to pay off.”