1 | Jarvis v JackoIt’s a slightly scary 20 years this week since Jarvis Cocker stormed the stage at the 1996 Brit awards and upset Michael Jackson. For his messianic performance of Earth Song (“What about elephants?”), Wacko Jacko was bathed in white light, bestowing blessings on children (awkward) and a rabbi. Jarvis pricked his pomposity by dashing up and waggling his skinny arse at the audience. He was soon bundled off by security, but not before lifting his shirt for good measure. When police questioned Jarvis over spurious claims he’d injured one of the child actors, he was accompanied to the station by funnyman and former solicitor Bob Mortimer. Tabloids initially tore Jarv apart, before realising most of us thought he was a hero. History has proved us correct.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest David Niven enters Oscars folklore.2 | Streaker v David NivenLet’s hope for something like this at this year’s Oscars. At the 1974 Academy Awards, co-host David Niven was introducing Elizabeth Taylor, who would announce the best picture winner as Paul Newman and Robert Redford caper The Sting. Quite a starry scene. It was at this moment that Robert Opel emerged butt naked and jogged across the stage, flashing a peace sign. The unfazed Niven’s reaction entered Oscars folklore: “Isn’t it fascinating to think that probably the only laugh that man will ever get in his life is by stripping off and showing his shortcomings?” A sad coda to the story came when Opel, an artist and gay rights activist, was murdered in his San Francisco gallery five years later.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Keith Richards ‘chops the mutha down’.3 | Stones fan v KeefDuring (I Can’t Get No) Satisfaction at a 1981 Rolling Stones gig at Hampton Coliseum, Virginia, a fan invaded the stage with the intention of embracing Mick Jagger. Keith Richards, however, had other ideas. He thwacked the interloper with his black Fender Telecaster – then coolly strapped it back on and continued riffing. Keef explained his actions thus: “I had no idea what this guy was gonna do. All I knew is that he was trying to get his hands on Mick and this I had to prevent. And I had a weapon in my hands.” He later recalled: “The cat was on my turf. I had to chop the mutha down. The guitar stayed in tune, though. That’s the greatest advert for Fender I can give.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Kanye West gatecrashes Taylor Swift’s moment.4 | Kanye v TaylorThe interruption that launched a thousand internet memes. At the 2009 MTV awards, teenager Taylor Swift pipped Beyoncé to best female video, so enraging ego-on-legs Kanye West that he rushed to the podium and yelped: “Yo Taylor, I’m really happy for you and I’ll let you finish, but Beyoncé had one of the best videos of all time.” Not just rude but unnecessary: Kanye had overlooked the fact that at MTV’s interminable shindig, there were a whopping 17 categories – including the climactic video of the year gong, which Beyoncé went on to win. West was widely derided, with even Barack Obama calling him a “jackass”. The self-regarding rapper got a taste of his own medicine at last year’s Glastonbury, when his headline set was crashed by prankster Lee Nelson.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest John Terry claims victory.5 | JT v teammatesAnother interruption that launched a thousand memes – mainly of John Terry gatecrashing events to claim credit. Despite being suspended from the 2012 Champions League final (he’d been sent off in the semi for violent conduct), the Chelsea skipper still went up to collect the trophy and lead the celebrations. Team player or glory seeker? Football fans thought the latter, especially when he appeared in pristine kit, shin pads and inscribed boots. He did exactly the same thing a season later, when he missed the Europa League final with an ankle injury – although not one severe enough to stop him running on in full kit at the final whistle. Wags quipped that the last time he got changed that fast was when he heard Wayne Bridge’s car pull into the driveway.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Soy Bomb lands.6 | Dancer v Bob DylanAt the 1998 Grammys, Dylan was honking out Love Sick when backing dancer Michael Portnoy decided to build up his part. He tore off his shirt to reveal the bizarre slogan “Soy bomb” emblazoned on his chest and enjoyed 40 seconds of limb-flailing, jerky writhing before security intervened. Despite looking baffled, Dylan didn’t miss a beat. Portnoy was a self-styled “multi-genre artist, director of behaviour and almost a vegetarian”, who did his impromptu dance as “an act of pure revolution”. It was an eventful Grammys that year: Wu-Tang Clan’s Ol’ Dirty Bastard also crashed the stage to launch into a drunken tirade about how his new suit “costed a lot of money, cos I figured we was gonna win”, before concluding “Wu-Tang is for the children!”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Calvin Harris joins Jedward.7 | Calvin Harris v JedwardA blink-and-you’ll-miss-it moment but at least it included one of your five a day. Scottish DJ Calvin Harris was invited on to The X Factor in 2009 and pulled a stunt during the song by that year’s novelty act, John and Edward Grimes (now known as Jedward). As the Irish twins massacred an Under Pressure/Ice Ice Baby mash-up, Harris leapt on stage, slapping his backside and holding a pineapple on his head in imitation of their vertiginous haircuts. He was escorted from the studio and dropped as a guest from spin-off show The Xtra Factor. Harris said he wanted to mock the contest’s ‘’frightening stranglehold’’ on the charts. The fateful fruit was on his rider from a gig earlier that day.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Pete Townshend loses his cool with Abbie Hoffman at Woodstock.8 | Protester v Pete Townshend“Fuck off my fucking stage!” That was the roar of the Who’s windmilling guitarist at the Woodstock festival. The band played 1969’s counter-cultural mud bath to promote their rock opera album Tommy, but Yippie (Youth International Party) leader Abbie Hoffman interrupted their set to rant about the jailed White Panther and MC5 manager John Sinclair. Grabbing a mic, Hoffman yelled, “I think this is a pile of shit while John Sinclair rots in prison…” before Townshend walloped him off stage with his guitar and announced: “The next person who walks across this fucking stage is going to get fucking killed.” Hoffman later admitted he was on a bad LSD trip. Townshend said he actually agreed with Hoffman’s sentiment but he had “violated the sanctity of the stage”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Barack Obama’s ‘signer’ denies he’s a fake.9 | Signer v Barack ObamaWhen a fake signer stood next to the US president at Nelson Mandela’s 2013 memorial service, before an audience of 91 world leaders, it was initially amusing. Instead of proper sign language, he translated Obama’s speech using made-up gestures and nonsensical phrases like “prawn”, “rocking horse” and “hand me the scissors”. However, the incident caused a security scandal and embarrassment for the South African government. It turned out the interloper was Thamsanqa Jantjie, a man with schizophrenia who was once charged with murder. Jantjie cashed in on his infamy by launching a career as an “actor and spokesperson”, getting released from psychiatric hospital the following year to film an ad.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Fruitbat takes out Phillip Schofield.10 | Fruitbat v Pip SchofieldBetween 1988 and 2005, the televised Smash Hits Poll Winner Party was a fixture in the pop calendar, like the Brit Awards’ snotty little sister. Its most infamous incident came in 1991 – the year of Chesney Hawkes, the KLF and Color Me Badd. When short-trousered punk-pop duo Carter the Unstoppable Sex Machine’s performance was cut short, Jim Bob and Fruitbat trashed the set. Host Phillip Schofield sarcastically said “Blimey! That was original” and was promptly knocked flying as Fruitbat rugby-tackled him to the floor. Carter USM were temporarily banned from performing on TV, but tour ticket sales soared and their single went to No 11. Fruitbat admitted he was “severely hammered” after drinking a crate of lager given to him backstage by the Farm.