When I read Poems That Make Grown Women Cry, the collection edited by father and son Anthony and Ben Holden, I cried so much that my family thought I was concealing some terrible news. Take “Daylight Robbery” by Paul Henry: I have witnessed exactly the scene he describes, of a seven-year-old boy suddenly transformed into an independent young man by his first serious haircut, with both my sons, but I didn’t stand back far enough at the time to see the experience for what it was. The poem made me cry with a mixture of happiness and sorrow in reliving what Henry captures so well, but also with regret that I did not sufficiently inhabit the moment in my own life.The poetry that moves men to tears As a teenager enthusiastically discovering poetry for the first time, I was thrilled by the Romantic idea of a “spontaneous overflow of powerful feelings”. Making the reader cry seemed to me then an important part of what a writer, even in prose, should aim to do. But when you’re older, and your life has provided more “powerful feelings” than you really have the stomach for, the poetic appetite may turn to something more austere or contemplative. A notable feature of this collection is to remind one that such a polarity is false; many of the tears that follow are evoked not by rhetoric but by a reflective winnowing.Is there then a hierarchy of tears, a snobbery of sobs? I suppose we might agree that the tear you shed when the footman in Downton Abbey rose to become a village schoolmaster was a cheap one, while the gasp you sighed at the closing lines of The Waste Land was more dearly bought. In which case, where do we place “Donal Og”, with which the book starts? My wife first showed me this poem, an anonymous eighth-century love poem with a startling range of imagery, three years ago and I found it literally unreadable – a wild lament, for sure, but a curse as well. It’s like the Adagietto from Mahler’s Fifth or the distant strains of “Danny Boy”: it goes straight to some lachrymal centre with almost no need of “meaning”. Does that imply that a neural trick is being played – the poetic equivalent of adding umami paste to your workaday stew? I’m not sure. But I do think it’s powerful, and I may try to work out how it’s done – if I can bear to reread it. Is there a hierarchy of tears, a snobbery of sobs? Linguists and neurologists have suggested that poetry speaks to a primitive part of the brain (some have even tried to plant a flag there, somewhere in the right hemisphere). Rhythm and rhyme helped oral bards remember verses before writing was invented; they were mnemonics. But there is something more complicated and interesting in the deep structure of grammar and the brain. Without venturing into the language of neuroscience, it is roughly this: poetry speaks to a vestigial part of the mind that was more active at the time Homo sapiens was becoming what she/he is. When we respond to poetry we engage a part of our being that is more primitive and in some way purer than the consciousness available minute by minute to our busy left-side brain.Yet I have two friends, both cultured, one a novelist, who cannot respond to poetry; they are deaf to it. One night my wife and I read out loud to them first “Eden Rock” by Charles Causley, then Sean O’Brien’s wonderful “Fantasia on a Theme of James Wright”, with tears pouring down our faces; yet they felt nothing beyond a faint embarrassment. Perhaps they are more evolved, more fully sapiens than we are, having shed the primitive neural connections to which poetry most directly speaks.Most emotional effects in poetry are connected with death. The foreground may contain abandonment, love, ageing, fleeting joy; but the background is almost always the darkness of what awaits. Tennyson’s “Ulysses” provokes an unusual kind of tear in this respect: it’s more than an old man’s rage against the dying of the light; the forces of myth and rhetoric are harnessed to evoke a noble indifference to fate, almost a hunger for extinction. The effect is what they call “stirring”, but it’s more than that – because the words evoke the universal through the particular and make us improbably complicit in the desires of an “idle” king, while the comparison of sea waves to land furrows appeals to something ancestral, proto-human, vanished from modern experience.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I have witnessed the scene the poem describes, of a boy transformed into a young man by his first serious haircut.’ Photograph: Christopher ThomondFew of the verses selected by the hundred women – writers, actors, artists from all over the world – in this collection are what we might call love poems, and perhaps this is because successful love poems (as opposed to the playful lust poems of Donne and Marvell, both absent here) are almost impossible to write. A poet may evoke the individual in a description of how they are adorable or may appeal to the universal, because we all know what we mean by love; but it’s very hard to inhabit the intersection of the two; and that is the place where poetry is usually formed. I think AL Kennedy’s comments on the “private” closing of the Elizabeth Barrett Browning sonnet she has chosen nicely sum up part of the problem. “When You Are Old” by WB Yeats comes near, but is it really a poem of love or loss? “After Great Pain” by Emily Dickinson takes us cleverly round the back of the subject; Dickinson joins hands with us in compassion for our imagined loss without describing hers. And that is a sophisticated formal coup, made possible by the poem’s simple diction.Few readers will fail to be struck by how stark many of the poems in this collection are: here are writers who have not flinched when looking at the lacrimae rerum. John Clare in “I Am” speaks so plainly that it takes a moment to understand the awfulness of what he is saying – that he wishes to be apart from any human being, alone with grass, sky and his creator. The choices of writer and Women’s Equality party co-founder Catherine Mayer, “Listen!” by Else Lasker-Schüler and its response “No Solace Here” by Gottfried Benn, a brutally contemptuous response by an arrogant male to an appeal from his female lover not to end their relationship, are more than unflinching; their candour verges on the shocking. I cannot find words for the emotions involved in Susanna Tomalin’s beautiful farewell poem or in her mother’s – the biographer Claire Tomalin – sharing of it.It is interesting that three of the greatest poets here – Shakespeare, Jonson and Wordsworth – are represented by their elegies for children, and I feel Pam Ayres is right to claim Wordsworth’s prose as poetry; it does the business of poetry as well as the verses of the other two. Interesting, as well, though not perhaps surprising, is the number of first world war poems chosen: widows, mothers and sisters have always borne their share of agony from this largely male-conceived and male-enacted mania. The art of poetry, as exemplified in this collection, transcends all gender issues, real or disputed.• Poems That Make Grown Women Cry: 100 Women on the Words That Move Them is published by Simon and Schuster, in partnership with Amnesty International. To order a copy for £12.99 (RRP £16.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.