The rains arrived just in time for new year. By the end of January, 16,000 acres of Somerset were submerged. Owls starved on the wing and fell dead from the sky. In the parish of Middlezoy, a farmer would later recall how he tried and failed to save a drowning hare, in the midst of evacuating his parents, his kids, and 400 head of cattle. At that moment the hare’s rescue seemed the most important task in the world, like some rustic remake of Saving Private Ryan; as though by saving the hare he could save the whole country too.Writer-director Hope Dickson Leach was told this story when researching her debut feature, The Levelling, which spotlights the aftermath of the 2014 floods. Ideally she would have liked to include it – except that her film is not Saving Private Ryan and was never meant to be. Instead it is one of a rare breed of new British social-realist dramas that abandon the inner city in favour of muddy forecourts and derelict barns. Like Francis Lee’s God’s Own Country or Clio Barnard’s Yorkshire-set Dark River, The Levelling reveals an English countryside in crisis; isolated and impoverished, stumbling towards a Brexit that it largely voted for. Hares drown in the fields and the farms are going bankrupt. There’s not a lot to celebrate in this unclean, unpleasant land.I meet Dickson Leach and her lead actor, Ellie Kendrick, in the cathedral city of Wells, where a band of white-suited old men play croquet on the lawn. The pair have just given an interview to the local tourist board. Given the subject matter, this struck them as strange. “I mean, yes, Somerset is lovely,” Kendrick allows. “But this isn’t really a very touristy film.”The Levelling stars Kendrick as Clover, a trainee vet who returns to the family farm after the death of her brother. The family is a mess and the house is in ruins. Her bluff, brittle father is barely holding the business together, staggering from his caravan to ensure that the cows are milked. The production had to fit around the same schedule. “We shot around the milking times,” Kendrick explains. “Cows need to be milked twice a day without fail. So there would be times when we were shooting right up to the wire and the farmer was trying to hold the animals back for as long as possible, even though they were getting really lairy. And when they came in, they would stop and stare at the camera.” She grins at the memory. “The cows weren’t professional. The dog was much better.”  Hardly any landscape shots ... God’s Own CountryIn making her film, Dickson Leach took her lead from French and Belgian cinema. She likes how the Dardennes brothers bring a hand-held camera into the heart of the action; the way Bruno Dumont frames the flat, brutal landscape. “British films about the countryside are still very rare,” she says. “There are so many stories that just aren’t getting told.”Why so? “I think that rich, middle-class people tend to live in London. They tend to be the people who make films – and also go to see them. So there’s a lack of belief that anyone would be interested in rural stories. Also, there’s a tension in talking about farming. Farming is seen as old-fashioned, conservative. It’s a community that city people feel they intrinsically don’t understand.”Dickson Leach, for her part, was raised in Hong Kong and now lives in Edinburgh. On arriving in Somerset she had to convince local farmers she was not some undercover activist, come to make a film about badgers. Eventually she was able to win them over.“I understand the mistrust,” she says. “It’s a very closed society. You’re living an isolated life and the pressures are enormous. There are very high levels of depression and suicide. Your livelihood is dependent on the weather, subsidies and migrant labour.” She shakes her head. “And yet this is the community that voted for Brexit. I still can’t reconcile that. I mean, I can understand the frustration and the need for change, but Brexit really worries me. It’s going to make the farming community so much more reliant on the Chinese market. So you have this crazy situation born out of desperation. The countryside is broken. It’s not financially viable.”The statistics appear to bear her out. West Somerset recently ranked at the bottom of the government’s social mobility index, hobbled by a lack of industry and seasonal employment. Further afield, the picture is little better. Rural workers earn 12% less than their urban counterparts and yet pay three times more in travel costs and heating bills. Around 15% of the population is living in poverty. According to a recent study by the Local Government Association and Public Health England, “rural social networks are breaking down, with a consequent increase in social isolation and loneliness.” The report adds for good measure that broadband connection is fitful. The digital gap leads to more isolation.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It’s a very closed society’ ... Hope Dickson Leach on location for The LevellingUp in West Yorkshire, Francis Lee would agree. The director has to call me from the top of the moor, the one place near his home where there is decent reception. Lee explains that he was raised in the Pennines, the son of a sheep farmer, and only recently moved back. “I left Yorkshire at 20 because it felt claustrophobic,” he shouts into the phone. “Moved to London to be an actor. Basically I was running away from everything I now write about.”As a performer, Lee appeared in Heartbeat, Peak Practice and Midsomer Murders; all those chocolate-box rural dramas. But, at the age of 40, he took a job in a scrapyard to raise cash to make films. His debut feature, God’s Own Country, which charts the romance between an anguished young sheep farmer and a Romanian migrant worker, is a brooding, beautiful drama, as sensitive as chapped skin. At its premiere in Sundance, critics dubbed it “a British Brokeback Mountain”, although that’s not quite what he intended. More than anything, he wanted to show the countryside as he saw it: harsh and unforgiving; framed in chilly close-ups.“When I was an unemployed actor, I’d sit at home and watch Escape to the Country on TV. But that’s not real, it’s just porn. And then on those few occasions when the countryside is depicted on screen, it’s always big, wide, expansive, bucolic. In my experience, it’s cold, it’s wet. You’ve got your hood up and your head down; you’re not looking around. That’s why there are hardly any landscape shots in this film. It’s all about the mud and the wind.”Lee now lives 10 minutes from his father’s farm. His dad is one of the few farmers still working this land. Most of the others have gone to the wall. “When I was a kid, growing up on the hillside, all of the land was still being farmed; it was full of cattle and sheep. Now the fields are full of horses and ponies, and all the houses are lived in by commuters from Manchester and Leeds. I try to remain hopeful, but farming has become so much more difficult. It’s a hard, lonely life; it’s not financially rewarding. There is a huge question as to whether it can survive.”I ask how West Yorkshire voted in last year’s referendum. The director concedes that it predominantly voted Leave. “I’m not going to demonise the people of West Yorkshire,” he says. “But it’s true that one of the factors keeping these communities together is migrant labour. So it’s no accident, me putting a Romanian worker in the film. It was important to show that the one person who can save this world is the migrant who comes with new energy and ideas.”All the while, the director has been walking. Breathlessly, he tells me he has now come over the top of the moor and reached the road on the other side. He reckons he might as well walk from here to his dad’s. He can have a cup of tea and use the internet there. By this point, I suspect, he has been outdoors for too long. Even the hardiest rural film-maker needs some shelter from the storm.• The Levelling is released on 12 May, and God’s Own Country on 1 September.