Takayna river myrtle, standing there in the silk mists, in tilting rain.Beneath sap, running under the film of the ferns on your skin are the memories of children – watching their mothers climb into the lungs of this forest, skimming the stream beds, the yabby beds, the creek mould green and cool.Sassafras, leatherwood, feathered huon drinking from the river’s ochre bank, and in the black water – oona – with her brown bill overturning pebbles, sifting soil. All the children climb in this shade, these branches small forests of moss, of silver lichen: this one for balancing, this for swinging, this widest for watching, for sleep. Children of cream skin, naked, brown, clothed in wool, in fur. Building bark shelters for insects in the hollows of your trunk. The twist-caves of roots lined with moss, finger-tips damp, ankles smelling of earth. Colonies of fungi rotting there under the herringbone, under the pointing finger fern.With the palest of the children, in the span of a limb – of a tree-fern bend – the rains began to falter. The spark of flints, the drifting arc of stars. A thousand years of sky, of rain.They watched, underwater, as the storm approached. The world seemed distant, muted.They heard the first of the warnings that were issued by the Bureau of Meterology, they saw the satellite images on the screen of Ashok’s phone, a spiralling mass of cloud obscuring the Tasman and half the Southern Ocean. They could hear people talking around them: The shelters are already full. The markets are emptying, we need to stockpile food. They’re saying it’s already looking worse than the low that brought the floods.Richell prize: Susie Greenhill wins literary award for 'ecological love story' Banford always at her side, Elena let herself be led through the necessary preparations. Make sure your tank filter is clear, clean water will be precious. If you don’t have a basement, prepare the smallest room in the interior of the house. If your property is in a low-lying area, relocate to higher ground. At night she lay awake with her fingers resting on the pulse in her daughter’s wrist.***“Come home with us?” Lil had pleaded as they’d said goodbye outside the house in the drizzling rain. Elena shook her head.“He could still come home…”Lil opened the passenger side door of the car, but before getting in she leaned across the gutter and put her hand on Elena’s shoulder.“Think of Ban…? You know you’ll be safer at the farm…”“She needs to be with me, Lil,” she said, stepping back onto the footpath. “He could still come home.”***It began with the rain. Steady, soaking rain that turned the rivers’ mouths black with tannin. On the street outside the house, the overflowing gutters carried rafts of flotsam between the few remaining cars. Banford scooped up armfuls of wet leaves and twigs and dropped them into the rushing water. She watched them disappear down the road, snagging on tyres and in the mesh of branches that had formed across the drain at the base of the hill.Inside the house, they carried blankets and mattresses into the basement under the kitchen. The room had been unused for years, and most of the boxes that had filled it had been damaged by the rains. But there were still bags of scuba gear hanging on the wall, and a steel shelf with water-proof containers full of bolts and electrical equipment that Tom had collected over the years. Outside, the wind was rising. One arm of the clothes line had come loose overnight and was clanging against the wall of the shed. Elena thought about the things that Tom would have done to secure the house if he were here.“Let’s build a kind of cubby,” she said. “We can use these boxes, and the blankets. I’m just getting a couple more things from upstairs … and then we can shut the door.”Banford followed her. In the bedroom she picked up Ban’s torch and her threadbare brown felt monkey.“Grab some books and some toys. Not too many.”The noise of the rain was deafening now, and the gums behind the house were bending in the wind. “It sounds like the ocean!” cried Ban.The old black wattle outside the kitchen started to scrape against the house. Elena grabbed her hand.“Let’s get downstairs.” ***From their place underwater they listened to the wind growing stronger, they watched the lightning that lit up the house.“Mum, I’m frightened,” Banford started to cry.The thunder made the floor vibrate. Somewhere above them they heard the sound of shattering glass. Elena pulled the blankets right over their heads.“This is better.” She said. ‘It’s just like a nest.”“Like a nest in a tree?”Elena nodded.“What if the roof falls down?”“It won’t sweetheart.”“You said daddy would come home.”“Oh, Ban...”There was a shuddering, and more breaking glass. Banford buried her face in Elena’s chest. Hands shaking, Elena fumbled for a book in the satchel that Banford had packed. It was Tom’s old copy of Peter Pan, the one he’d read to Banford when Elena was in hospital the previous year.“Want me to read?” she asked.Banford nodded.“The story of the Never Bird.”“I’ll try.” ***During the night the wind began to calm, only to build up once again. Banford fell asleep in her arms as she read. And somehow she must have slept herself, for when the tree fell they were lying together on the floor, and the branch that had splintered against the wall was only inches above their heads. Banford was screaming.“Mum, what’s happening??”Everywhere there were leaves – in their eyes, in their hair – there were branches and there was wind. The door to the kitchen had been smashed off its hinges, and the wattle that had stood in the lane beside the house was flooding the basement with pollen and rain.“It’s okay.” Elena pulled Banford close. “We’re okay.”She managed to gather the corners of one of the blankets, and tug it back over their heads. The batteries on her head torch were weakening. There was enough light in the sky now that she guessed it must be sometime after dawn.***When she woke again, Ban’s face was flushed with pleasure and cold.“A butterfly. I think it’s a butterfly!”In the space between their bodies and the fractured branch a small, flame-coloured butterfly was crawling towards them across the leaves, its folded wings frayed and trembling. Elena tried to remember the last time she’d seen one, it was a blur, she thought of their visits to the Insect House with Tom, the cabbage moths descending on her grandfather’s garden. Her head throbbed.“Let’s make a space for it … a shelter.” “Should we make it out of sticks?”Elena nodded. The wind was still howling, but it was quieter, and she thought it might have shifted direction. She pulled her phone out of her pocket. No signal.“That’s amazing, a butterfly…” she stroked Banford’s hair. She felt giddy, her legs were numb from the cold.“I thought they’d look different,” Banford said.“In what way?”“I thought it’d be flying … all fluttery like a moth.”“It will, if its wings aren’t too damaged. When the storm is over we can take it in to dad’s work. He’d be so proud of you, sweetie.”Banford frowned.“I don’t want him to be proud.”Elena put her arm around her shoulders, she was shivering.“It’s very rare and very special to find a butterfly you know?”Banford wiped the tears off her mud-smeared cheeks, she lay back down, her head on the bundle of blankets, her hair knotted with foliage from the tree. Outside, beyond the city, the storm had passed over the mountains, engulfing the woodlands, sweeping over the salt-grey coastal plains. The tall forests stood waiting, glistening in the rain – their labyrinthine root systems weakened by drought. The trees were sighing, breathing, gathering nutrients from the soil, from the light; ten thousand years of evolution had not prepared them for the strength of the wind.“I’m not going to take you,” Banford whispered, there inside the house, among the branches of the tree. She cupped her hands around the butterfly, and listened. “I just want you to live. I want you to live.”