The funniest standup I’ve ever seen Probably Eddie Pepitone’s show at the 2012 fringe. He was so raw and funny and angry and kind. I came out of that dank cave trembling with astonishment.The funniest person I knowMy fellow Daphne boys [Wang is a member of the sketch group], George Fouracres and Jason Forbes, who I consider to be one person mainly for tax reasons. George is a crazy, crumpled genius, and Jason has a caustic wit and winning arrogance to challenge even my own.The funniest book I’ve ever readCatch 22. It is the finest farce I have ever come across and I’ve seen a lot of Frasier. It is about the absurdity of war and the selfishness of the human condition and it is so, so funny.The funniest film I’ve ever seenA Singaporean film called I Not Stupid. It’s a really well observed comedy about primary school children in Singapore and chimed with my experiences in Malaysia. Weirdly, every western performer in it is terrible. Perhaps it was a political decision by the director to make white actors look bad. Which, in the wake of the most recent Academy Awards, we could probably do with a lot more of.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The funniest heckle I’ve ever hadDuring a gig in Osaka I talked about how much pussy I’ve been eating and a US Navy chef in the crowd said: “You are what you eat”, which is excellent.The funniest sketch I’ve ever seenThere’s a sketch in Limmy’s Show about a man who introduces his new girlfriend to his two pals. When she turns up, she is actually a little old man. That’s it, but I lose my mind every time I see it.The funniest item of clothing I’ve ever ownedI used to have a T-shirt with a picture of Chairman Mao and beneath it the word LMAO.The funniest meal I’ve ever eatenIn Tokyo, a friend took me to a place that does mackerel that they blowtorch right in front of you. The chef entrusted my friend with a lemon wedge, instructing him to squeeze it over the fish on the count of three. He did and the chef shouted: “Good lemon!” Then all the other chefs in the restaurant shouted: “GOOD LEMON!”Phil Wang: Philth is at Soho Theatre , W1, Monday to Thursday