As the national Gender Identity Development Service (GIDS) we see children and young people (up to the age of 18) and their families who are experiencing difficulties in the development of their gender identity.  Often we are asked about the difference between or meaning of different terms that are used and about how the service works and what we do to support young people and their families. With the increased media coverage of gender dysphoria amongst children and young people, it’s important to demystify some of the terminology. What is gender identity?It is a sense of your self as being male, female, transgendered, or somewhere along the male/female spectrum (non-binary). Gender identities are diversifying and different self-identifiers are emerging such as “non-binary” and “gender queer”.  The majority of young people have a gender identity which matches the sex into which they were born (biological or natal sex) and would identify as “cisgender”. For a small number of children and young people, however, their gender identity and biological/natal sex does not match and this may result in discomfort and distress with the body. This is called gender dysphoria. Top 10 books about gender identity In some cases the young people may identify as transgendered. In other cases these experiences are transient, fluid and part of development, but occasionally, if the gender dysphoria persists, the young person may wish to seek further support. Gender dysphoria in children. What does this mean?Children from a very young age or early childhood may identify very strongly as the opposite to their birth or assigned sex. This may be expressed through verbal statements about how they identify and through preferences in clothes, play and peer relationships. In some cases, these feelings may be transient and their intensity may reduce when the child approaches puberty. In other cases these feelings intensify and continue into adolescence and adulthood. It’s important that through this sometimes complicated journey the young person feels supported. Gender dysphoria in adolescentsFor some young people the gender dysphoria may emerge around the time of puberty; for other young people feelings of gender dysphoria, already experienced from a young age, can become more intense and distressing as puberty commences. What can be done to help a child or young person who is exploring their gender identity?Professional help If a child or adolescent is very distressed or troubled about their gender identity there is help available. In the first instance GPs would be able to support and refer to a Child and Adolescent Mental Health Service (CAMHS) or to the highly specialist Gender Identity Development Service (GIDS) at the Tavistock and Portman NHS Foundation Trust who will work with the whole family. Transgender: identity is never one single thing so tick the box that says 'other' It’s vital that young people feel supported and are seen as individuals when they seek help. Although young people have in common the experience of gender dysphoria their future trajectories or pathways can vary widely. Children and adolescents who experience gender dysphoria are a particular group, distinct from adults presenting with gender dysphoria, so they need to be supported accordingly. Support for young people and families Talking therapiesA number of different talking therapies are available. The aim of talking therapy is definitely not for the professional to try to change the mind of the young person, but to facilitate exploration of gender identities and to give information about gender dysphoria and all the options open to young people. We know that family support is very important. Often families are seen together with their young person, and this can be helpful for the family to feel wholly supported in the exploration of the gender identity of the young person. However young people can be seen on their own so that they have a private space to explore their feelings; often adolescents are likely to value the opportunity to talk in private. Group support Group support is a good way for young people to meet and discuss their situation with others who may be in a similar position. Groups can reduce feelings of isolation and stigma that young people and their families often experience. Live webchat: transgender rights and teen fiction - as it happened Support with education  Young people with gender dysphoria can be supported in a variety of ways, and with the right guidance and understanding, support can be offered in their school or college, by professionals and by LGBT support groups. Our service works with a range of schools to help them provide the best support possible to children and young people with gender dysphoria and we often provide advice to schools regarding how to support a young person in difficult situations, such as which toilets and changing rooms to use.  Support groups  There are a growing number of support groups in the UK which offer support for gender variant children and their families. Support and guidance can vary depending on the support group, but may include offering social activities, so young people are less isolated and can meet people who identify in a similar way or are questioning their gender in a safe space. They may also provide talking groups for young people, adolescents, siblings and parents to support different family members.  Physical treatments  In some cases, following an assessment at a Specialist Gender Service, a young person may be prescribed the hormone blocker. Hormone blockers can be prescribed to prevent any further pubertal development by temporarily “pausing puberty”, and also, importantly, allow a breathing space for the young person to continue to explore their gender identity without the worry that their body is still developing. The hormone blocker is an injection, usually given monthly. Its effects are reversible so if it is discontinued the pre-programmed hormones turn on again.  In biological/natal females the hormone blocker will stop menstruation and further breast development and in natal males, if given in the early stages of puberty will prevent the voice breaking and masculinization. Top 10 books by transgender authors featuring trans characters  It is usually not possible to predict how someone will feel about their gender identity when they are on the hormone blocker. It is important to stress to young people and families that there is no right or wrong outcome or pathway and it is vital for the young person to feel supported without judgement around how they are feeling.  Some young people may feel more comfortable with their body they were born with while on the blocker and may opt to come off it after a certain period of time. Others may feel their gender dysphoria stays the same or increases while on the blocker and they may then consider less reversible physical treatments such as cross sex hormones from the age of 16 years. Some definitions Gender-variant: an adjective to describe individuals whose gender identity, role, or expression differs from what is normative for their assigned sex in a given culture and historical period. Children can be gender variant from a very young age or early childhood. Sense of self may not match their biological attributes. May exhibit cross gender behaviour and wish to be recognised as other gender. Transgender: an adjective to describe a diverse group of individuals who cross or transcend culturally defined categories of gender. The gender identity of transgender people differs to varying degrees from the sex they were assigned at birth.  Transition: the period of time when individuals change from the gender role associated with their sex assigned at birth to a different gender role. For many people, this involves learning how to live socially in another gender role; for others this means finding a gender role and expression that is most comfortable for them.  Transition may or may not include feminisation or masculinisation of the body through hormones or other medical procedures. The nature and duration of transition is variable and individualised.  The Tavistock and Portman NHS Foundation Trust: a specialist mental health Trust with a focus on training and education alongside a full range of Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services (CAMHS) and psychological therapies. The Trust is committed to improving mental health and emotional wellbeing, believing that high quality mental health services should be available for all who need them.  About the Gender Identity Development Service: we see children and young people (up to the age of 18) and their families who are experiencing difficulties in the development of their gender identity. This includes children who are unhappy with their biological sex. This specialist service is unique to the NHS. We have a team with experts in child and adolescent psychiatry, psychology, social work, psychotherapy and paediatric and adolescent endocrinology.