It’s the phone call no one wants to receive, the one from a beloved friend saying the chemo hasn’t worked and the doctors have suspended treatment. Oh God, I thought, wanting but refusing to ask how long. There are few situations in life where the right thing to say simply does not exist.“And I so wanted to finish the damned book,” Mal lamented, bringing the conversation back to our usual subject – writing, its frustrations and occasional joys. Mal and I shared the shady pursuit of Being a Writer, the insecurity, the self-doubt, the rare success, the less rare disappointment. Every couple of weeks he’d phone to talk shop: publishers, editors, agents, festivals, books. Advances and best–sellers. Writers we loved, writers we didn’t. We reassured each other through the lows and celebrated the highs – you won’t be stuck forever, he’d say. There will always be another book, I’d say.Except now there wouldn’t be. And he wanted to finish the damned book.“I’ll do it,” I said, not stopping to ask what it was about, or how much he’d written, or how he expected it to end.“You didn’t even read it first?” an editor friend asked. “But how on earth did you know you could finish it?”I just knew. In any case, aren’t most writers risk-takers by nature, stepping boldly, or foolishly, off a cliff with every book? None of my novels has had much of a plan, just the fragile faith that somewhere in the unconscious is a question and that somehow, eventually, a way to answer it will emerge. I imagined that finishing Mal’s book would be like loving a dear friend’s child – a joyous adoption, no genetic link necessary.Mal Peet obituary Mal’s wife, Elspeth Graham, emailed the unfinished manuscript of Beck to me a month or so after he died. We lived far enough apart – Exeter to London – that I could still imagine that Mal and I simply hadn’t spoken lately, that he might still be on the end of the phone struggling with some new story.I read it. And instead of phoning him to say: “You bastard, you’ve done it again,” I phoned Elspeth.“I can do it,” I told her. “I know exactly where he wanted to take this book, what he would have done with it.”Elspeth was remarkable, struggling with her own grief, but brave and funny and practical. “Excellent,” she said. “Whatever I can do to help, I will.”And she did. The first challenge was figuring out how to write in someone else’s voice. The answer, I discovered, is not to Beck is the story of a half-African, half-Liverpudlian boy born in 1907, orphaned, turned over to the Sisters of Mercy for his “care” and education, transported to Canada, abused by the Christian Brothers and sold for slave labour to a farm in Ontario. He runs away, becomes a bootlegger during prohibition and ends up employed by a half-Native American Blackfoot woman nearly twice his age. The story is not quite picaresque, not quite a road novel, not entirely for young adults. It’s part coming-of-age novel, part romance, part historical drama. Some of it is very shocking. Typical Mal, in other words, to write a novel that can’t be pigeonholed.The first challenge was figuring out how to write in someone else’s voice. The answer, I discovered, is not to. Voice is not about mimicry. It’s deeper, more fundamental than style – a reflection of who you are, what you value, your emotional and intellectual DNA. Stylistically Mal and I are perfectly distinct (how could we not be? A working class boy brought up in Norfolk and a middle-class girl from the American suburbs?), but our DNA meshed effortlessly – same values, same sense of humour, same cheerful pessimism, same interest in identity, adolescence, love and words. I never tried to write a sentence the way Mal would write a sentence, I just wrote, trusting that some deep connection would carry the prose.Mal Peet, a great writer and a great friend It looked obvious to me that three existing sections had been awaiting a fourth. Mal had skipped ahead and written some of the ending, including the last scene, and in discussion with his editor, we decided that writing a quarter of the book from scratch would be tricky.So I went to work, imagining that I was refashioning a large schooner into a medium-sized sloop – retaining the shape, the outline, the pace, but cutting down the actual dimensions. This required shifting the arc of the book so it peaked earlier, developing the story in three parts instead of four. I trimmed back some of the sex scenes. My dear Mal, I reproved him, you’re enjoying this sexual awakening a bit too much The process was nearly identical to working on one of my own novels. Mal had already figured out the plot; much of the book only needed polishing. But some of Beck still felt like an early draft, needing new dialogue (perfect for me, with an ear for American/Canadian vocabulary and cadence), additional scenes and a rethink of the main character if he was to become a believable partner for an older woman. I admit that I trimmed back some of the more explicit sex scenes. My dear Mal, I reproved him, you’re enjoying this sexual awakening a bit too much.None of it could easily have been done with a living author. I’d have been phoning up constantly to ask if it was OK to make changes. Making it my own, however, was a dictator’s dream: I could do what I liked. Over time, Beck began to look less like a manuscript and more like a novel.The key work on the book took place in Suffolk earlier this year with Elspeth. We talked about the plot, historical aspects of the story (she was Mal’s brilliant researcher), drank wine, reminisced, took long walks, stared at the sea. Most days, Mal’s voice entwined comfortably with mine, and I did what I thought was right, happy that he was looking over my shoulder with a drink in one hand, wondering why we didn’t always work like this. I didn’t have to ask, “What would Mal do?” because he was both absent in reality and present in my head, and in Elspeth’s.The best thing about the collaboration was that it kept me in dialogue with my friend for months after he died, so that when I sent the manuscript off at last, it was with a deep sense of sadness. Our conversation – at least that part of our conversation – was over.As the weeks passed, however, it began to return. Which makes perfect sense. One of the few things Mal enjoyed as much as a laugh and a drink was good conversation. He wouldn’t allow it to stop, simply because he was no longer alive.“What do you think?” I asked him the other day, when the finished hardback arrived.“I think it’s a damn sight easier having someone else finish your book,” he answered, pouring himself another glass of wine.“And a damn sight easier having someone else start it,” I told him. “So let’s do it again soon.”To my everlasting sadness, of course, we won’t.• Beck by Mal Peet with Meg Rosoff will be published by Walker on 18 August. To order a copy for £10.65 (RRP £12.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.