Great art museums need great art. That should go without saying, but the new Tate Modern is so architecturally exhilarating that I started to wonder: perhaps you really can have a museum where it doesn’t matter much what’s in it because the experience of walking around is so enjoyable and cool.First look: inside the Switch House – Tate Modern's power pyramid I love the Switch House, the expressionistic, futuristic new wing of Tate Modern, from its sinister dark basement – the Tanks – to its bleak but addictive concrete stairways and, yes, its stylish bar. It’s a place that would speak of modern art even if there were no modern art inside. This is because, like so much of today’s best architecture, it translates the jagged lines and harsh dissonance of early 20th-century art into three dimensions. There may not be many cubist painters around today, but there sure is cubist architecture. Not only is this new space exciting in itself but it utterly transforms the feel of what I suppose we now have to call the “old” Tate Modern, which opened back in far-off 2000. The opening up of a new entrance on one side of the Turbine Hall makes the whole place more luminous and expansive and, even better, a high bridge connects the two wings. It’s finally become the modern wonderland I hoped it would be when I first looked round on a hard hat visit in the late 1990s.Yet surely this massive expansion just makes the Tate’s biggest problem even worse? I’ve said it before of the Tate’s collection of modern art: it is full of holes and academically grim selections of “representative” works. Instead of, say, Picasso’s Ma Jolie, it has a load of lesser cubist paintings. Only occasionally did the 20th-century Tate get its hands on true masterpieces, as when Mark Rothko gave it his sublime Seagram murals. And why oh why did it bother to buy Carl Andre’s dry, textbookish and not in the least provocative Equivalent VIII?       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Surreal, monstrous, macabre’ … the work of Louise Bourgeois on display at the Tate Modern. Photograph: Facundo Arrizabalaga/EPASo, yes, as I ascended the startling, strangely seductive Switch House, I felt, at first, the same disappointment that has hit me on every Tate Modern visit since it opened, that same longing for some art to live up to the architecture. Then I reached level four. Tate Modern's Switch House review – brain-fizzing art to power a pyramid Here you will find a display of the surreal, monstrous, macabre art of Louise Bourgeois that hits you right in the heart. It is as eerie an encounter with her dark dreams as you could possibly wish for – and this not in a paying exhibition but the free collection. Why is it so good? Because the examples of her work here are so excellent.Modern art is just like older art – some of it is great and some of it is so-so. The reason a lot of British people find it unimpressive is quite simply that we do not have enough of the best modern art in our collections. Go to a German city like Cologne, let alone the great US collections, and you’ll see stunning masterpieces of our time. In Britain, too often, you have to try and deduce the spirit of the new from lesser, sillier works. This is why the most important champion of modern art in Britain is not Sir Nicholas Serota but Anthony d’Offay, the art dealer who created the Artist Rooms collection from which this Louise Bourgeois wunderkammer comes. The level four gallery in Tate Modern’s Switch House is a permanent space that will show works from this collection, in addition to its ongoing tour around Britain. It will give this museum a constant stream of the best works by the best artists of these times, from Robert Mapplethorpe to Anselm Kiefer.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anthony d’Offay: Britain’s most important champion of modern art? Photograph: David Cheskin/PAAs Britain’s leading commercial dealer in new art from the 1970s to 90s, d’Offay knew many of the artists in his collection personally. He was friends with Andy Warhol and Joseph Beuys. Yet most of all he has a superb eye. That sensual feel for what is good sometimes eludes the Tate’s own curators – I still can’t work out why they think the quirky interactive stuff they’ve put in the Tanks is so important. And why, amid the mayhem down there, have a room dedicated to furniture designer Jasper Morrison? D’Offay is a pure art lover who knows what he likes – and what he likes tends to be truly outstanding. There’s a tribute to his generosity written up in the Turbine Hall. It is well deserved. Read it then make a beeline for level four of the Switch House to see some truly captivating art. After that, you’ll find – or, at least, I did – that all reservations about the new Tate Modern tend to melt away. With its spatial wonderland crowned by the five-star quality of the Artist Rooms collection, this is now one of the world’s greatest art museums. 