Lost in Showbiz has had a particular weakness for stories involving the television cooking show judge Gregg Wallace, ever since he was contacted on Twitter by a member of the public. “Hi Greg,” ran the message. “I am cycling just over 180 miles in 2 days for Macmillan Cancer Support. Any chance of a retweet?” The MasterChef star’s retort was as heartwarming as it was lengthy, and ran simply: “Gregg?” “No worries mate,” shot back the charity bike rider. “It’s only people with cancer. You worry about your extra G.”However, Twitter has been a place of ups as well as downs for Gregg. He had met his third wife, Heidi, on the platform when she contacted him to ask him a question about celery. Alas, the marriage foundered after 15 months, despite the fact that Heidi ran his household for him, looked after his two teenage children, and was charged with running his diary to a level of micromanagement that can certainly be described as eye-catching. His daily list would need to include instructions to eat breakfast, brush his teeth, check BBC News … “Then it’ll say Twitter,” explained Gregg blithely, “because I want to tweet twice a day.”Alas, Heidi seems to have fallen behind on her own marital to-do list. “I want to be out on the town,” Gregg eventually lamented to the newspapers. “I crave company. I want to take my sexy, elegant wife to smart restaurants dressed up in her heels on my arm. She likes the local Italian. I spent a lot of time doing things to please Heidi and it was bothering me.”Poor Gregg. Yet it wasn’t him who called time on the union. In fact, Heidi’s request to end things on the basis that he was “needy” was entirely unfathomable to him. “It is weird, isn’t it?’ he wondered rhetorically of the Daily Mail at the time. “I find it all weird. I mean, she came up to the flat in London last week to change my sheets. I honestly can’t get to the bottom of it.”Amazing.Anyway, back to the present day. It is little known that every morning for some years, Gregg would stare into his enchanted mirror and inquire: “Mirror mirror on the wall, who’s the most cooking judge of all?” And every morning the mirror would beam his own visage back at him and reply, “YOU ARE, GREGG.” Gregg Wallace has long known that he bestrides the world of giving points to food like a Colossus. He looms over a plate like he’s invading its personal space, and the public love him for it. He strongly suspects his iconic catchphrase – “Cooking doesn’t get tougher than this” – will soon be given listed status.One day last week, however, this morning ritual was cataclysmically disrupted, and it was not Gregg’s face that he saw in the looking glass. But who is this? Who is this lady biting into a sachertorte with a critical tooth, before pronouncing it “really very accomplished”? Over to the mirror, which doesn’t mince its words: “MARY BERRY IS THE MOST COOKING JUDGE!” it informs him. “MASTERCHEF HAS BECOME A SECOND-TIER COOKING SHOW.”Once he’s stopped screaming, and swept up the mirror shards and spittle, Gregg has two options. A poisoned apple tart with a brulee glaze. Or an outing in the Sun on Sunday, in which he goes to war with Mary over some passing comment she’s made about deep-fat fryers. He chooses the latter. Indeed, he chooses batter.But first, a recap of Mary’s comment – made to Good Housekeeping – in which the Great British Bake Off star poured scorn on the smell and health risks of fryers, declaring: “I don’t think any household should have one.” Dear Mary! I suspect she is one of those national treasures whose results on the Political Compass test I’d be much happier not knowing. A bit like Joanna Lumley.For Gregg, however, this was nothing less than a culinary invasion of Poland. As he thundered in the Sun: “Every household down my road in Peckham, south-east London, stunk of deep-fat frying and I’m sure every working-class home around the country was the same. How would you have done chips and Spam fritters without a deep-fat fryer? It really does beggar belief. Our nation was built on chips and Spam fritters.”Mirror, mirror on the wall … But there was more. Much more. “The smell of deep-fat frying was universal back then, wasn’t it?” inquired Gregg, again rhetorically. “It brought families and friends together. To suggest getting rid of it isn’t just an assault on the deep-fat fryer but on the traditional British psyche. I love Mary dearly but this is an attack on our British way of life.”If those sound to you like the words of someone who’ll say anything, and with any amount of confected feeling, just to get Bake Off out of the headlines, then you have simply failed to understand the centrality of the fryer to this island race. It is existential. Happily Gregg, now on his fourth marriage – they met after she asked him a question about rhubarb on Twitter – understands all about gathering round the fryer like the Waltons. Not that he didn’t write the book on moderation too. “I’ve lost three stone in the past couple of years,” he finds space to point out, “so I know about it.”Lest the sledgehammer nature of his shade-throwing be missed, though, Gregg ends with a reminder that certain glass-house dwellers are no better than they should be. “The main thing to remember,” he points out, “is that things like deep-fat-fried foods, or the delicious sugary buttery cakes like Mary Berry bakes, are treats.”As are you, Gregg. As are you. Indeed, we look forward to hearing much more from you at your very earliest convenience, and as frequently as possible while this record-breaking series of Bake Off continues.