As the row over the green levies added to energy bills was building towards its climax a couple of years ago – with David Cameron reportedly ordering aides to “get rid of all the green crap” to lower prices – social scientist Nick Pidgeon was touring the UK.From Merthyr Tydfil to Glasgow and from London to Cumbria, Pidgeon’s workshops with members of the public wrestled with solving the triple challenge of keeping the lights on, energy bills affordable and global warming under control. To Pidgeon’s surprise, people attending the workshops overwhelmingly backed a transformation based on renewable energy, energy efficiency and cutting fossil fuel use.“They said why on earth are we not doing this already?” said Pidgeon, a professor of environmental psychology at Cardiff University, who also tested nationwide opinions via polling. “When the complex problems were explained, people had a vision of the future that was clearly more ambitious than any of the political parties. They believed that fossil fuels were old-fashioned and finite and had all these other [pollution and security] problems associated with them. They felt there is no future for their kids if we are stuck with fossil fuels.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ed Miliband talks about Labour’s policy to cut energy bills during a visit to Crouch End, north London. Photograph: Stefan Rousseau/PAThe 2013 “green crap” row, which resulted in £50 being knocked off bills, commanded the political spotlight for a while, having been electrified by Ed Miliband’s popular pledge to freeze energy bills. But it was a “phoney war”, according to Matthew Spencer, director of the influential Green Alliance thinktank, as the levies set to be added to future bills to drive the green transformation remain firmly on an upward curve and are expected to more than double to £187 a year by 2020 (though the overall bill may fall if energy efficiency measures bite).“Whoever wins the election, the costs of the low-carbon transition will rise sharply over the parliament and this will need to be carefully managed if that programme is to succeed,” said Jimmy Aldridge, at the Institute for Public Policy Research thinktank. The impact of the government’s choice will stretch even further than 2020, according to Pidgeon: “Energy is the biggest infrastructure challenge we face. Decisions taken in the next parliament will affect people for the next 50 years.”In Germany’s 2013 general election, those decisions were second only to the eurozone crisis as an issue. In the UK, the environment lags behind the perennial big hitters of the NHS, economy and immigration in issue tracking polls by Ipsos Mori and YouGov. However, it ranks alongside tax, the EU and crime and, although the three main parties have jointly pledged to tackle climate change to protect the UK’s national and economic security, the party manifestos have less in common in 2015 than in 2010.The starkest change has been in the Conservative position. In 2006, the high point of environmental concerns in recent decades, Cameron went to the Arctic and hugged a husky. The “vote blue, go green” message was a key part of the Tory brand decontamination strategy and featured prominently in the 2010 manifesto.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Cameron with a husky on the Scott Turner glacier in Svalbard, inside the Arctic circle, Norway. Photograph: Andrew Parsons/PABut within 18 months of the election, the green drive was dead, with George Osborne saying: “We’re not going to save the planet by putting our country out of business.” The energy minister, Greg Barker, was forced to argue at the time that the party was acting green, if no longer talking green: “We are all trousers and no mouth.”But by their final party conference, Tory ministers had nothing new to say about the environment or energy at all. The 2015 manifesto has only one significant new energy policy: a ban on new subsidies for onshore wind farms and a veto for local communities. This was immediately dismissed as “bad news for British billpayers” by former “big six” energy boss Ian Marchant, as more expensive green energy would be needed instead to meet the UK’s legal carbon reduction targets.“I suspect [the wind farm policy] is targeted at local constituencies where there is a particular local issue,” said Anthony Wells at YouGov, as the overwhelming majority of the UK public supports wind farms. Tom Burke, a former special adviser to three Tory environment secretaries and head of Friends of the Earth, said of the “ridiculous” anti-wind farm policy: “It may be tactical, but you want your prime minister to be delivering a safe climate for 60 million Britons, not giving a sop to 20 marginal constituencies.” Burke also accused the communities secretary, Eric Pickles, of “abuse of power”, having pulled in and rejected dozens of local wind farm planning applications. Party policiesThe Lib Dems, while once again placing the environment on their manifesto front page, have undergone a full U-turn on nuclear power. The energy secretary, Ed Davey, who once said that “in addition to posing safety and environmental risks, nuclear power will only be possible with vast taxpayer subsidies or a rigged market”, now backs nuclear as needed to tackle climate change. Pidgeon said this attitude of “reluctant acceptance” prevails among much of the public.The Lib Dems ran energy and climate change policy in the last parliament – though Osborne frequently intervened – and now point to a tripling of renewable energy. But, having started from a very low base, the UK still ranks near the bottom of the 28 EU nations, with only Luxembourg and Malta producing less green energy in the latest statistics.Similarly, millions of homes benefited from energy efficiency improvements in the last parliament, but the UK still has some of the highest energy bills and rates of fuel poverty among comparable EU states. Lib Dem efforts to use regulations to improve the UK’s cold and leaky homes were repeatedly blocked or weakened by the Conservatives, even when successfully piloted by Tory councils.Labour argues that coalition rows have undermined the huge investment needed to transform the energy system: Davey once had to take legal advice about the contradictory anti-wind farm statements of his then junior minister John Hayes, a Tory. The Labour manifesto is therefore heavy on energy promises, including 5m home retrofits to increase efficiency and making electricity virtually zero-carbon by 2030.On fracking, one the most high-profile green issues, only the Green party is opposed among the parties standing across the UK. But the fact that 161 Labour and 149 Lib Dem parliamentary candidates openly oppose their parties’ support indicates that the shale gas row is far from over, as does the fracking moratorium imposed in Scotland by the SNP. Robert Ede, an energy and environment expert at the Whitehouse Consultancy, thinks fracking could be put on hold by a Labour party seeking to form government with SNP and Green help. “A moratorium on shale would seem a likely concession,” he said.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An anti-fracking protester in Manchester. Photograph: Jonathan Nicholson/Demotix/CorbisAlso offering a distinctive manifesto is Ukip, which dismisses the notion of man-made climate change and wants to “rejuvenate the coal industry”. However, fewer than 10% of the UK public thinks global warming is not happening or is entirely natural. Yet, even the relatively low level of climate scepticism in the UK is higher than in most of the world and higher than a decade ago.The decline of environmental concern from its husky heyday may be reversing, according to Pidgeon. He pointed to the only event in the past five years to send the environment soaring up the issue tracker polls: the widespread floods of early 2014, which followed the wettest winter for 250 years. In YouGov’s fortnightly poll, the sight of large parts of England under water pushed the environment up from 9% to 23%. “There are times when issues like environment can shoot up the agenda,” said Wells. “There is potential there, but no politician has really made use of that.” The following YouGov poll saw the environment fall to 13%. Labour criticised the coalition for cutting spending on flood defences and climate change adaptation but has not committed to spend more in these areas.In the countryside, party differences are clear. Labour has committed to ending the badger cull, a top-five issue in constituents’ complaints to their MPs. The Conservatives promise a free vote to end the ban on hunting with dogs. The Tory manifesto’s other pledges on protecting the natural world, including large reserves to protect the seas, gained praise from Spencer: “It could be a way to redeem themselves as conservationists. It could be the start of the Conservative party rediscovering its mojo on the natural environment.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Campaigners speak as the Queen musician and activist Brian May looks on at an animal welfare rally. Photograph: Mike Kemp/In Pictures/CorbisSpencer said the environment was important to voters, even if it was in the second rank of issues in tracking polls. “What you get from opinion polls is what is urgent, not what is important,” he said. “People are sophisticated: they expect governments to be responsible. They expect politics to be thinking and planning for the country’s long-term security as they do with defence, which like environment doesn’t come up as an urgent concern in polls.” Matthew Evans at Ipsos Mori agreed: “When we ask specifically about environment, there are high levels of concern and it has risen again recently.”“There is nothing wrong with the British people on the environment – they just haven’t had much of a political offer to buy,” said Burke. “But it’s not an issue that shifts votes – yet.”The parties’ policies on the environmentConservativesThe Tories claim to have led the greenest government ever and promise to push for global agreement on tackling climate change. However, many Conservative MPs have long been opposed to the sight of wind turbines in their constituencies, so it is little surprise to see a cap on onshore wind farms to prevent their spread. The party has also promised a large expansion of marine reserve areas around UK foreign territories. For its rural heartland there is a free vote promised on whether to reinstate hunting with dogs, while on transport the party has promised the biggest investment in rail since Victorian times and for “almost every” car and van to be a zero-emission vehicle by 2050. Ian Marchant, chairman of Infinis Energy, on behalf of the British Wind industry association, criticised the planned cap on onshore wind farms, saying they were the cheapest large-scale renewable energy generation source in the UK,. He added: “This would artificially protect more expensive technologies and the big six energy companies from much-needed competition.”GreensAs expected, climate change is at the centre of all Green policies, with proposals for a rapid transition to a zero-carbon, sustainable economy. The party has pledged an outright ban on fracking and a phasing out of coal-power stations. When it comes to public transport, the Greens want to renationalise the railways and cut fares by 10%. Unsurprisingly, Friends of the Earth is full of praise for the manifesto, saying it “stands out from the others as a plan not just to do the right things on the environment but to stop doing the wrong things as well. It commits to end the age of fossil fuels in the way necessary for our generation to avert runaway climate change.”LabourLabour has pledged to double the number of green jobs by 2025, supported by what it says are ambitious carbon reduction targets, including the decarbonisation of the UK’s energy supply by 2030. The party is also promising a robust regulatory regime for shale and more certainty on tax rates for offshore oil and gas. It plans an energy security board to deliver an energy mix including renewables, nuclear, green gas, carbon capture and storage, and clean coal. One of Ed Miliband’s best-known policies is the freeze on energy bills until 2017. In response, Matthew Farrow, executive director of the Environmental Industries Commission, said: “It is heartening that Labour recognise the potential of the green economy and the importance of using government policy to create a stable investment framework. The strategy needs to cover the full range of environmental business, including for example air pollution control and contaminated land remediation, and should include joint work with the green business sector to identify and access the enormous export opportunities.”Lib DemsThe Liberal Democrats say they want to build on their environmental record in government and promise to have green commitments on the table from the first day of the next parliament. The party’s proposals include net greenhouse gas emissions to be zero by 2050 and no unabated coal power generation after 2025, with 250,000 new green jobs by 2020. It has also promised to cut council tax for green homes by at least £100 a year for 10 years. The proposals on energy and nature protection were welcomed by Doug Parr, chief scientist at Greenpeace UK, who said they “would be a huge win for the environment”. However, he added: “Now we need to know where the red lines are in any negotiations with potential coalition partners and how high up the priority list environmental improvement is for the Lib Dems.”SNPThe Scottish National party wants the UK government to adopt Scotland’s carbon reduction targets and has pledged to maintain its support for a moratorium on fracking. The party also wants to maximise support for offshore wind and to support community energy generation, as well as backing community heating schemes. Its manifesto’s pledges to Scotland’s rural communities include the promise to improve transport links across the north, along with a cut in fuel tax of 10p a gallon. UkipCentral to Ukip’s manifesto is the pledge for the UK to leave the EU, dropping many of its environmental regulations, including emissions trading. It also plans to repeal the 2008 Climate Change Act, which sets legally binding carbon budgets, and to promote fracking and rejuvenate the coal industry. On transport, Nigel Farage’s main pledge is to scrap HS2. For the fishing industry, Ukip wants to reform regulations to enforce “no take” zones and end “destructive industrial fishing practices”. Natalie Bennett, leader of the Green party, called the party’s environmental policies “an insult to the many people across the globe already suffering the effects of climate change”. She added: “Their environmental policies, just like their attitudes to immigration, are nothing short of dangerous.”Fiona Harvey 