Children’s novels have almost doubled in length over the last 40 years, according to research from US review journal Booklist, which attributes the growth to the popularity of the Harry Potter novels.Booklist’s Briana Shemroske looked at issues of Booklist from five decades: 1976, 1986, 1996, 2006 and 2016, focusing on the 111-year-old journal’s coverage of middle-grade fiction – books aimed at readers between the ages of eight and 12. In 1976, she found that the average page count of a novel was just over 100 pages. By 1986, this had increased to almost 140 pages per novel. While it stayed around the same level in 1996, by 2006 the average was about 175 pages. This year, the average is 290, an increase of 173% over 40 years.The big question: are books getting longer? Shemroske’s research follows analysis of adult titles from Vervesearch for the interactive publisher Flipsnack, which found that the average book’s length had increased from 320 pages in 1999 to 400 in 2014. Vervesearch’s James Finlayson attributed to the shift towards digital reading. He said: “When you pick up a large book in a shop, you can sometimes be intimidated, whereas on Amazon the size of a book is just a footnote that you don’t really pay all that much attention to.”Shemroske at Booklist pointed to the success of Harry Potter as a major reason for the increase in length of children’s novels, with the first book in Rowling’s record-breaking series, Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone, published in 1997. Booklist contributing editor and author Ilene Cooper said the popularity of the fantasy genre itself also skews the average. “Fantasies tend to be really long,” Cooper said. “Authors are building another world. Readers of fantasy want to get lost in those worlds.” Until Harry Potter, publishers believed children had short attention spansCaroline Horn, editor of Reading Zone Caroline Horn, editor of the children’s books resource Reading Zone, agreed that the pagination increase was down to “the Harry Potter effect”.“Until then, publishers were turning away manuscripts longer than 40,000 words. The belief was that children had quite short attention spans and wouldn’t cope with longer stories,” she said. “Harry Potter opened publishers’ eyes a bit, made them re-evaluate the market in terms of what was publishable, and what was sellable, and they became much more open to longer books.”Horn said that in the 1970s and 80s, children’s books were often “quite heavy”. “I think that writing for children was very much in development then,” she said. “It has [grown up] from the late 90s onwards [and] authors have become a lot better at telling stories … Even though books are longer now, they might have shorter chapters and be action-packed, and are … able to maintain children’s attention more.”Longer, said Horn, is a good thing: “It shows the quality of the writing.” She also attributed the increase to publishers’ focus on how a book looks. “If you look at older books, they are really hard to read, with the text quite compact, not a lot of space between lines, and narrow margins, because the thinking was then that books had to be of a certain size,” she said. “Now, publishers are really focusing on how a book looks – they want it to be beautiful and accessible, so chapters are not too long, margins are wide, and the text is a good size.”Illustrations in middle-grade novels have also increased, said Horn, citing books by author-illustrators like Philip Reeve and Chris Riddell, which also pushes up pagination.“But on the critical side, editorially publishers are more pushed these days, so whereas they might have tightened up a book more a couple of years ago, they may not have the resources to spend as much time on a book now,” she added.