My friend Brad and his girlfriend, Jenny, moved to Mexico City in January. He’s a musician, she’s a chef, and every email I get includes some version of “Mexico City is insanely wonderful”: a feast for the eyes, the ears and the heart, as well as an actual feast every time they sit down to eat.I know shamefully little of Mexican cuisine. But while I might not have been south of the Rio Grande, recent cookbooks – from Margarita Carrillo Arronte’s Mexico and Diana Kennedy’s The Essential Cuisines of Mexico, to Enrique Olvera’s Mexico from the Inside Out and Hartwood by Eric Werner and Mya Henry – have reeled me in. This week’s impromptu primer to la cocina Mexicana has cemented my aim to keep cooking with the chillies and the pulses and the corn varietals that this mesmerising nation has so graciously bequeathed to kitchens the world over.For anyone in the UK wishing to take my cue, Sous Chef – the online cook’s retailer – does a specialist Mexican selection. A note on cooking with dehydrated chillies: they need to be rehydrated before you do anything with them. Wipe down, toast lightly, soak in hot water for 20 minutes, then pat dry, and you’re good to go. The winning recipe: Ensenada-style fish tacosMexican chef and restaurateur Enrique Olvera told me last year: “Markets are where Mexican food actually comes from – the reference is always in the street.” And prepping Karla Zazueta’s tacos here is like setting out a market stall: there are myriad bold components to sweep a hungry passerby off their feet. You can rustle up the final thing in seconds. Claire Tweet’s homemade corn tacos below took these beauties to a whole other level.Serves 4For the tacos300g cod (or other white fish) cut into long, thin stripsVegetable oil, for deep frying8 corn tortillas½ white cabbageFor the batter120g plain flour1 tsp baking powder1 eggSalt, to tasteA pinch of oregano1 tbsp dijon mustardA pinch of black pepper240ml dark beerFor the salsa3 tomatoes, finely chopped1 white onion, finely choppedA small bunch of coriander, finely choppedSalt, to tasteJuice of 1 lime, to tasteFor the pickled onion1 onion, thinly slicedSalt and black pepperJuice of 1 limeA pinch of dried oregano1 habanero pepper, choppedFor the mayonnaise½ tbsp sour cream1 tbsp mayonnaiseSalt and black pepperA few drops of lime juice1 Prepare the salsa bandera by mixing the tomatoes, onion, coriander, salt and juice of a lime. Set aside.2 To make the pickled onion, rinse the onion in water, shake dry, then add some salt. Set aside for 10 minutes, then add the lime juice, oregano and the chopped habanero. Set aside.3 Make the mayonnaise. Mix the sour cream, mayonnaise, a pinch of salt and pepper and a few drops of lime juice. Set aside.4 Shred the white cabbage. Set aside.5 To make the batter, mix all of the ingredients together, then put the pieces of fish in the batter and set aside while you prepare to start frying.6 In a large, deep frying pan, warm the oil until very hot. Fry 2-3 pieces of battered fish at a time, for around 3 minutes on each side. Drain on kitchen paper and set aside while you fry the rest.7 Heat the tortillas (wrap individually in aluminium foil and bake for 10 minutes at 180C/350F/gas mark 4) then cover them with a tea towel to keep them warm.8 To build the tacos: take a warm corn tortilla, spread with mayo, put 1-2 pieces of fried fish on top, then add some shredded cabbage, salsa bandera, habanero pickled onion and, if you want to add a bit more heat, add some spicy salsa of your preference.Corn tortillasClaire Tweet was right when she said that freshly made tortillas are the business. I can’t wait to get my hands on some azul masa harina for some blue ones.Makes 8-12225g masa harinaA good pinch of salt1 tbsp olive oil325ml hand hot water (approximately)1 Mix the ingredients together with a fork. Let it stand for a few minutes then knead for 5 minutes.2 Add more water if it’s needed to get it to a soft dough. Cover with cling film and leave for 30 minutes.3 Shape up balls of dough, a little bigger than a golf ball. Press a dough ball in a tortilla press, or if you don’t have one, between 2 sheets of plastic (I use zip lock bag plastic), flip it and press again.4 Cook in a very hot dry pan, turning twice. They should puff up a little on the 3rd side. Wrap them up and keep them warm until you eat them.Pumpkin seed and jalapeño spreadAnnie Levy’s Mexican spread (sikil pak) has crunch and brightness and the satisfying heft of a good sandwich filler. Also good as a tortilla chip dip.Makes 1 jar250g pumpkin seeds200g pickled jalapeños (reserve the pickling vinegar) 1 small onion, chopped A bunch of coriander, finely choppedA bunch of parsley, finely choppedOlive oilJuice of 2 limes1 Fry the onion until soft, then set aside while you do the next steps.2 Toast your seeds in a hot pan until fragrant, then soak them in the jalapeño pickled vinegar.3 Put the soaked seeds, onion, jalapeño pickles and herbs in a food processor with a drizzle of olive oil, and whizz. Add lime juice to loosen it all up and get the desired consistency.4 Serve with crackers or tortilla chips, or as a spread, with salsa, in a taco.EloteGrilled corn has never tasted this good. Rachel Kelly substitutes the traditional cotija cheese with feta, or caerphilly.Serves 4 Vegetable oil3 tbsp mayonnaise1 tbsp sour cream1 tsp chilli powder8 ears of corn, husked2 tbsp fresh coriander, chopped100g feta or caerphilly, crumbled2 limes, quartered, to serve1 If cooking on the barbecue, lightly brush the grill with vegetable oil. If using an oven grill, preheat the grill for 5 minutes before using.2 Combine the mayonnaise, sour cream and chilli powder.3 Grill the corn until cooked and a little charred, turning occasionally. This should take about 10 minutes.4 Once cooked, brush each ear of corn with the mayonnaise mixture. Sprinkle over the crumbled cheese and serve with a squeeze of lime juice.HorchataRhian Williams’s easy take on this nut milk drink is beautifully simple – I added a drop of vanilla the second time, and it rounded the flavours out admirably.Makes 1120ml vanilla rice milk120ml almond milkA pinch of cinnamonA dash of vanilla essence (optional)1 Combine the milks in a saucepan and gently heat. Stir in the cinnamon.2 Serve immediately if you want it hot, or aside to cool and serve with ice, if you’d prefer it cold.Pollo con papasThe daughter of Mexican immigrants to the US, Melanie Parra has sent us one of her maternal grandmother’s signature recipes: Mexican slow‑cooked chicken and potatoes. It really is a quintessential family favourite of a dish, with a flavour as deep as the red sauce is rich. I served this with Bobby Ananta’s lime and coriander sweet potato rice below.Serves 44-6 chicken thighs or drumsticksSalt and black pepper, to tasteOil, for frying500g white potatoes, peeled and cubed½ large white onion, sliced1 tbsp tomato pureeFresh coriander, chopped (optional)Sour cream (optional)For the sauce3-4 dried ancho chillies2-3 vine tomatoes½ large white onion, chopped3 garlic cloves1 tsp ground cuminSalt and black pepper, to tasteA pinch of sugar (optional)To serveRefried beansMexican-style rice 1 To make the sauce, boil the ancho chillies with the tomatoes in about 240ml of water, until the tomatoes start to lose their skins. Remove the skins from the tomatoes and put them in a blender along with the chillies and some of the liquid from the pot. Reserve the rest to thin the sauce, if necessary. Add the chopped onion, the garlic and cumin. Add salt, to taste and a pinch of sugar if the tomatoes need sweetening or the bitterness of the chillies needs toning down. Blitz, then sieve to obtain a smooth sauce. If the sauce is too thick add a bit of the boiling liquor to thin it out. Set aside.2 Season the chicken pieces with salt and pepper, then fry in some oil in a heavy-bottomed pan until browned. Remove and set aside. Fry the potatoes in the oil along with the sliced onion. When the onions have softened, return the chicken pieces to the pan, add the sauce and the tomato puree, then simmer until the potatoes are soft and the chicken is cooked.3 Serve garnished with coriander and a dollop of sour cream, if desired.Lime and coriander sweet potato riceA perfect companion to many a main dish from Bobby Ananta – sweet potato, coriander and lime make an enduringly winning combo.Serves 2-4380g jasmine rice720ml water1 sweet potato, 1cm diced and parboiledJuice and zest of 1 limeA small bunch of coriander leaves, roughly choppedSalt and pepper to taste1 Put the rice and water In a medium pan and cook over a medium heat for 10 minutes. Turn down the heat add the sweet potato, put the lid on and cook another 10 minutes. Set aside for 5 minutes with the lid on.2 Add lime juice, lime zest and coriander leaves, stir gently so rice and sweet potato are fluffy. Mix well with coriander leaves and season to taste.Hibiscus margaritasColonial Cravings meshes hibiscus tea with the quintessential Mexican cocktail for a drink pretty as a picture.Serves 250ml tequila Juice of 1 large sliced lime30ml orange liqueur30ml hibiscus syrup (see below)1 lime, cut into slices, to garnishFor the syrup 75ml water50g sugar2 tbsp dried hibiscus1 To make the hibiscus syrup, just boil the water, sugar and dried hibiscus for about 3 minutes. Strain and let it cool before using.2 Shake everything except the syrup and lime slices together with ice. Pour into two glasses, filled with ice and rimmed with salt or sugar, if desired.3 Drizzle the hibiscus syrup around the edge, so that it sinks to the bottom of the glass, then garnish the rim with a slice of lime.Tarascan bean soup The hearty goodness of a bean broth cannot be underestimated and the name of Marcel Salles’s ancho-infused soup – Tarascan harking back to pre-Columbian days – suggests people have been making it since time began. As with most soups, the beauty is in the toppings, and the fried tortilla croutons. Soak the beans for four hours.Serves 6-8500g flor de mayo, pinto, pink or brown beans, presoaked for at least 4 hours2 to 4 dry ancho chillies (depending on size), deseeeded, stalk removed 500g tortilla, sliced into bite-size pieces2 garlic cloves, finely slicedHalf an onion, slicedOil for frying1 sprig fresh oregano, washedA little cuminSalt and pepperTo garnishSour creamCotija cheese (substitute with caerphilly or feta)Avocado slices1 Put the soaked beans in a heavy-bottomed pan and bring to the boil, then simmer, semi-covered until tender – this might take up to an hour. Remove the beans, reserving the broth in the pan for later.2 Lightly toast the ancho chillies then soak them in warm water for about 20 minutes. Pat dry, then set aside.3 In a skillet fry the garlic and onion in a generous amount of oil then set aside. Using the same oil, fry the ancho chillies then set aside.4 In a blender, blitz the beans with the garlic, onion, chillies, oregano, cumin, salt and pepper until smooth, or the consistency you prefer. Then return to the pan and mix into the bean broth. Bring to the boil and cook on a low heat for a while, allowing the flavours to blend.3 Fry the tortilla pieces in oil over a medium heat until crisp. Drain on kitchen towel.3 To serve, add a handful of golden tortillas pieces to each bowl, add hot bean broth and garnish with cream, cotija cheese and avocado slices.