In the same way that we talk about a full moon, for my last meal, I’d like to have a full Earth in front of me. So, I’d be sitting on the moon, looking at the Earth rising above the moon’s horizon. Because the moon is tidally locked to the Earth, the moon rotates with a speed that means it always appears to have the same side facing the Earth – so I’d be sitting on the Earth side. Incidentally, I recently made a map of the moon with Ai Weiwei.When we eat, we are so much more connected with the world. It is one of the few times when our insides touch the outside world – quite literally: the process of eating means the mouth, the throat, the belly, the gut are all in physical contact with the external world. Sitting on the moon would nicely amplify that connection between our insides and the Earth: it would be a kind of planetary amplifier, if you will.My last meal would be about eating the Earth. Maybe not the whole thing, but a thin sliver of it, leaving enough for the 7.3 billion other people who live on it. Eating it is being in contact with it, or being connected to it.Making, eating and digesting food have consequences – you don’t need to be an academic to understand that. When you’re cooking, you can’t help thinking about where the food comes from – who made it, under what conditions, asking yourself if the harvesters were in a union, if they were paid properly. So, thinking about food leads you to understand the difference between, say, supermarket tomatoes grown in a greenhouse in the Netherlands and the tomatoes we grow ourselves.I’m well aware of the complexities of the system. For example, until we got a rainwater management system working for our roof garden, growing our own tomatoes was probably far less environmentally friendly than buying those Dutch tomatoes. But once we got it right, it became much better.In my studio, we are healthily obsessed with these things. We think about how to be rational while still celebrating irrationality and creativity. A secret of the studio is that the rational part is often the creative part. Sometimes the creativity is in being able to foresee, to plan.Everything is connected, everything has consequences, we are what we eat. Olafur Eliasson is a Danish-Icelandic artist and food fanatic. Studio Olafur Eliasson: The Kitchen (Phaidon), a cookbook inspired by the food prepared at his Berlin studio, is out now, and features the burdock root, apricot punch and gingerbread pictured above. Follow the studio kitchen on Instagram: @Soe_kitchen