We had a huge family get-together in Leeds in May, and my mum, Sheila, discovered she wasn’t the eldest child after all. She is from a blended family: there were three children from my grandad’s first marriage, three from my nanna’s first marriage and four they had together. Mum only found out that weekend, that one of my stepnanna’s daughters was actually two weeks older than her.She met my dad, Desmond, working on the buses in Leeds. He was from Nevis, and they married in 1967 when she was 19. He is 10 years older than her.My parents divorced when I was four. It was harder for my brothers, Stephen and Kenny, who were 10 and 12. But I was at the age when these things can happen and you don’t get traumatised. I do remember the car ride to the airport to see my dad off to New York.My stepdad Wallace’s entry into the Griffin family a year after my parents’ divorce was maybe also harder for my brothers than for me. Pretty much all my memories have him in them. I don’t remember any feelings of “I want my mum to myself” or “He shouldn’t be here.”My mum had lots of jobs to support the family: Cadbury was my favourite. And then she taught office skills. She taught me to touch type, I don’t know how many words per minute, but it’s quite high and it’s come in really handy. She’s ace my mum, a grounded, down-to-earth Yorkshirewoman.Auntie Linda, who took me to drama classes at Leeds Children’s Theatre from when I was five, was one of those aunts who is not actually related to you at all. My girls are the same with my best friends, calling them Auntie Lili and Auntie Nicnic – they see more of them than of my blood relatives. That’s how it was with Auntie Linda, who was my mum’s best friend.Wearing secondhand clothes as a child means I can’t do vintage. That smell – I can’t stand it. It was a sign of poverty. Yet my girls Tallulah and Melissa are in nothing but hand-me-downs because all my friends have girls and they think it’s really cool.Money’s something I have massive memories of in my childhood: the lack of it, or the trying to get it, economising, working out what was going to be paid when. I used to love playing banks: going to the TSB with my mum, and picking up handfuls of pink paying-in slips, and turning them into play money.I moved out when I was 17 because my brother had a flat he wasn’t using. I was working in Coronation Street, so I was back and forth to Manchester all the time. I had passed my driving test and had a car. I enjoyed the independence so much, I thought, “Right, I want a place of my own.” I signed the deeds on my 18th birthday and moved into a new starter house in Leeds.What makes my mum proud of me and my brothers is that we moved out and can look after ourselves. And she’s no prouder of me than she is of them.With Tallulah’s acting on CBBC I feel as if I’ve succeeded. My mum wanted us independent, happy and healthy. And I’ve got a soon-to-be-12-year-old who is working on location on her own. She is out in the world and absolutely loves it.I don’t have an overwhelming urge to go to the island where my father was born. I’ve been to the general area, and to St Lucia because my stepdad is from there. But I do think I will definitely get to Nevis one day, because it is absolutely beautiful.• Brief Encounters, starring Angela Griffin, is on Mondays at 9pm on ITV