 9.46pm BST We're going to wrap up our live blog coverage of today's recovery efforts in the mid-Atlantic region after Friday's fatal derecho storm. Here's a summary of the latest developments:• Utility companies recruited emergency help from outside the region to try to return power to customers as a heat wave bore down, with temperatures in the upper 90s expected through the week.• The Maryland governor announced three deaths from exposure to heat. At least 17 have now died from the storms and aftermath.• Hundreds of thousands of people remained without power on the third day of recovery efforts. Power companies said most people would have power back by Thursday. Maryland utility BGE reported that two-thirds of its customers had regained power; AEP Ohio reported 260,000 are back online and Pepco reports it has restored power to about half of the 440,000 homes that lost it.• Officials encourage people to cool off with water and ice, check on their neighbors and visit cool sanctuaries such as town libraries and schools or local pools.  8.55pm BST The Washington Post has an extensive gallery of photos of storm damage sent in by readers. Very large trees uprooted.Updated at 9.11pm BST 8.49pm BST At a press conference just concluded in Baltimore, Maryland Gov. Martin O’Malley said six Maryland residents had died in the storm, including three from heat-related complications. O'Malley asked residents to check on neighbors. The temperature at the Baltimore airport is currently 93 degrees.Updated at 9.10pm BST 8.07pm BST The Southwestern Electric Power Company is sending reinforcements to help AEP.AEP Ohio (@aepohio)Please welcome crews from SWEPCO! 58 of them will be working 16 hour days, including on the 4th of July holiday, to restore power.July 2, 2012 7.52pm BST Storm footage uploaded to YouTube on the night of the derecho shows high winds, heavy rain and strange sky illumination in Lake Ridge, Virginia, just outside DC.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close Updated at 7.53pm BST 7.39pm BST Here's an update that pains us to type: 13,000 gallons of fermenting beer is at risk of spoilage at Port City Brewing Company in Alexandria, Virginia, which lost power completely during the storm and now is running on emergency generators.For the record, 13,000 gallons is roughly 104,000 pints of beer, with is enough for you and five of your closest mates to drink 5 pints each every night for about the next 10 years. DCist blog reports (h/t: Katie Rogers): Thankfully, a large generator procured today means that the brewery can power up its glycol chillers again and keep the tanks at a steady temperature. Still, he said, brewers are checking on the quality of the beer and assessing what to do next—though the generator can power the chillers, the rest of the brewery remains closed.  Port City faces the loss of an unspeakable amount of fermenting beer from this weekend's power outages.Updated at 7.45pm BST 7.23pm BST Slate's Matt Yglesias adds an entry to the list of culprits for the power outages: the American love affair with having a yard to water and mow and call one's own: But in practice in the United States we do the reverse and force people to inhabit low-density settlement patterns. Substantial swathes of the city and the vast majority of land in the inner-ring suburbs is exclusively reserved for detached single-family houses, meaning that no matter how expensive the land gets it never gets transformed into high density housing with appropriate infrastructure [meaning buried as opposed to suspended power lines].Pepco, our local power company, is a huge pain to deal with. But you can't blame them for the zoning code.Updated at 7.25pm BST 7.04pm BST The Washington Post live blog of the recovery effort includes a list of schools where Washington, DC, residents can dispose of spoiled food and information about free admission to public swimming pools.The Maryland governor will hold a press conference this afternoon with updates. 6.48pm BST See enough of these photos and trees begin to take on a sinister aspect. Leafy friends turned heavy safety hazards.  Giovanny Alvarez, a letter carrier for the U.S. Postal Service, leaves after delivering mail to a residence in Washington, Monday, July 2, 2012, damaged by the powerful storm that swept through the region Friday. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci) 6.25pm BST A lot of folks out there on Twitter concerned about getting their power back by the Fourth of July holiday and/or lamenting a loss of essential party supplies to defrosting:Neva Davis (@nevadavisday)3 days without power and all the @gardein I bought for July 4 is ruined.Tragedy!3 big bags.July 2, 2012Alison Dye (@alisonedye)This week is going to be a cluster. Still without power.Man, I knew I should have taken a July 4 vacation.July 2, 2012Malik Newman (@leekyleek14)Still no power...supposed to be back on July 4? WahhhJuly 2, 2012Freakii-key (@Hello_Freakii)I wonder wats ppls plan noww 4 july 4th since half of em don't hav no power....July 2, 2012Updated at 6.30pm BST 5.54pm BST How could a storm that wasn't even a hurricane knock out so much power? There are a lot of hanging, as opposed to buried, power lines in Maryland and DC, for one thing. The local utility, Pepco, has not had the time or resources to bury most lines, leaving them vulnerable to falling trees.Instead of burying the lines, Pepco has focused its efforts on cutting back trees, winning them the nickname "Butcher of Montgomery County." My colleague Erin McCann, who knows her way around a DC block, notes:In late 2010, an analysis by The Washington Post found that Pepco customers typically experienced more power outages and waited longer for service to be restored than customers of other big-city U.S. utility companies. The next year, Maryland regulators issued an unprecedented $1 million fine against Pepco, citing the outages and poor tree-trimming practices.Updated at 5.57pm BST 5.25pm BST A sense of humor is a fine thing to be able to call on when a ton of oak tree has just given your vehicle the crush-before-recycling treatment.   A tree sitting atop a vehicle offers free firewood in Falls Church, Va., Monday, July, 2, 2012, as cleanup continued after Friday's storm, Around 2 million utility customers are without electricity across a swath of states along the East Coast and as far west as Illinois as the area recovers from a round of summer storms that has also caused at least 17 deaths. (AP Photo/Karen Mahabir) Photograph: Karen Mahabir/APUpdated at 5.28pm BST 5.07pm BST The Washington Post's Jason Samenow has put together an excellent explainer of why Friday's storm was so destructive, including an in-depth look at derechos.Samenow lists peak wind gusts in the D.C. region:71 mph near Dulles Airport70 mph in Damascus, Md.79 mph in Reston, Va.65 mph in Rockville, Md.70 mph at Reagan National Airport76 mph in Seat Pleasant, Md. (Prince George’s co.)77 mph in Swan Point, Md. (Charles co.)70 mph in Ashburn, Va.69 mph in Leesburg, Va. 4.43pm BST Dominion says 90-95% of its customers should have power back by Thursday.Dominion VA Power (@DomVAPower)@monikaannu we only have general restoration timelines right now, 80-85% by Tues night, 90-95% by Thurs nightJuly 2, 2012A heat wave blanketing the region this week makes the need for power especially urgent. A National Weather Service map shows that extreme heat with temperatures in the upper 90s or higher is expected in Virginia and Kentucky through the week.The elderly and infirm are at particular risk from extreme temperatures with no air conditioning. On the bright side, a separate NWS map shows wind speeds predicted to remain in single digits in the region for much of the week.  4.24pm BST Pepco's Facebook gallery.   Pepco is posting pictures of repair efforts to its Facebook page.Updated at 4.24pm BST 4.13pm BST The storm system that caused Friday's damage is known as a "derecho" – not a term we've noticed in common meteorological parlance but one which has been in use since the 19th century, according to the National Weather Service ("derecho" is Spanish for right or straight; the term was initially applied to storms to contrast with "tornado," from the Spanish "tornar," to turn).   Derecho diagram. Photograph: NWSComplete with a stunning photograph of an Illinois derecho, the government maintains a derecho information page explaining how these weather phonomena develop. The info page begins with the definition:A derecho (pronounced similar to "deh-REY-cho" in English, or pronounced phonetically as "") is a widespread, long-lived wind storm that is associated with a band of rapidly moving showers or thunderstorms. Although a derecho can produce destruction similar to that of tornadoes, the damage typically is directed in one direction along a relatively straight swath. As a result, the term "straight-line wind damage" sometimes is used to describe derecho damage. By definition, if the wind damage swath extends more than 240 miles (about 400 kilometers) and includes wind gusts of at least 58 mph (93 km/h) or greater along most of its length, then the event may be classified as a derecho.Updated at 4.16pm BST 4.06pm BST Dominion Power is working to restore service to a quarter-million custormers in Virginia and North Carolina. The utility maintains a web site giving the locations of its active crews. 4.03pm BST American Electic Power distributes energy to 5 million customers in 11 states. The company is handling consumer questions and complaints on its web site.Q. I saw trucks in my neighborhood, then they left. I still don’t have power.A. That happens because one crew might be fixing facilities that serve one portion of the neighborhood, but your electricity might be served from a different direction. Different crews may be working on that.Also, crews have different assignments. One crew might be trouble shooting and reporting in while a separate kind of crew will be needed to focus fully on repairs.Finally, a section of the circuit might be damaged. A tree crew might need to clear debris before the line crew can start to make repairs. 4.00pm BST A "very unusual" disaster.Pepco (@PepcoConnect)@EmmRachelle This was a very unusual storm with very little warning. Crews are working 24 hours to restore power quickly and safely.July 2, 2012 3.56pm BST Pepco, the power utility for Maryland and Washington, DC, is posting photos of recovery work to its Facebook page. Lots of big downed trees, tangled power lines and men with chain saws in cherry pickers. 3.34pm BST Good morning and welcome to our live blog coverage of the massive effort in the mid-Atlantic states to restore power and shelter to millions of residents after Friday's freak thunderstorms. Here's a summary of where the recovery effort stands: • An estimated 2 million residents are still without power in Virginia, West Virginia, Maryland, Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky. The death toll from the storms is 15, with most killed by falling trees.• Both a heat wave and new storms threaten residents without power. Temperatures in the region topped 100 degrees over the weekend. The forecast calls for more hot weather and storm activity. Power companies say service may not be restored to a significant number of residents until the end of the week.• An official with Dominion Virginia Power told the Washington Post that it's the third-worst outage in company history. It's the only one of the top five not caused by a hurricane.• The three big utilities affected in the outage, Baltimore Gas and Electric, Dominion Power and Pepco, have put out a call to other companies for 1,000 added workers each to get the recovery moving. “There is a significant risk of additional storms that could lead to additional outages, so there is a possibility that the situation could deteriorate in the coming days,” Virginia Gov. Bob McDonnell told reporters on a conference call.Updated at 3.42pm BST