Rome Fortune      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rome Fortune at Coachella last year. Photograph: BFAnyc.com/Rex ShutterstockWho are you?I’m Rome Fortune, a producer and vocalist.Where are you from?Decatur, Georgia.What do you sound like?Music embracing its evolution.What do you sing/rap about?My life, my kids, my ambitions, women, inspiring people.What’s your look?The Fifth Element meets Leon: The Professional.How are you going to blow everyone off-stage?Just watch me.What else are you hoping to do while you’re in Austin?Make another baby maybe.Where will you be by this time next year?About to drop album No 2 and performing in a bouncy house on a transparent blimp.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Diet Cig      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Diet Cig. Photograph: Andrew PicconeWho are you?We are Alex Luciano on vocals and guitar, and Noah Bowman on drums.Where are you from?We currently live in Brooklyn, New York, but started the band in New Paltz, New York.What do you sound like?A cold shower – refreshing, exciting, wakes you up no matter how sleepy you are!What do you sing about?Our lyrics are honest and biting, condemning exes and urging the dance party along. Putting a new twist on the crazy real-life situations everyone gets into.What’s your look?Cute but tough – dirty sneakers and ripped black pants, our sweetness coming through more in our music than our aesthetic. It’s a nice balance. We’re sweet, but not too sweet.How are you going to blow everyone off-stage?Our shows are a constant dance party that blur the line between stage and audience. We have such a fun time dancing and moving around, our set always puts us and everyone in the room in a good mood.What else are you hoping to do while you’re in Austin?Eat lots of breakfast tacos. Any recommendations?Where will you be by this time next year?Still touring, shredding and writing tunes! Hopefully playing a set on a float at the Main Street Electrical Parade in Disneyland, but who knows?   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Oscar      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Oscar opens for Bloc Party at Le Trianon. Photograph: David Wolff-Patrick/RedfernsWho are you?Oscar Scheller – lead vocals and rhythm guitar; Louis Milburn – lead guitar, keyboards, samples; Will Fortna – bass; Aramis Gorriette – drums.Where are you from?North-west London.What do you sound like?Deep voice, groovy rhythms and eclectic style. Melody comes first.What do you sing/rap about?I sing about how I see the world.What’s your look?Pop art crossed with modern English gentleman.How are you going to blow everyone off-stage?By smiling a lot, jumping around and giving off good vibes and real emotion on stage.What else are you hoping to do while you’re in Austin?Drink frozen margaritas, then party.Where will you be by this time next year?In a New York City loft writing my third album.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Vaadat Charigim      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Vaadat Charigim. Photograph: Goni RiskinWho are you?Yuval Guttman – drums; Dan Fabian Bloch – bass; Juval Haring – vocals, guitar.Where are you from?Tel Aviv, Israel.What do you sound like?A noisy, fast-paced Cure album sung entirely in Hebrew.What do you sing about?Life in Tel Aviv, getting older, anxiety, war, the tension between the pointlessness of life and the need to give it meaning.What’s your look?Sleepy.How are you going to blow everyone off-stage?We sing in Hebrew, so people are probably going to be pretty confused. What else are you hoping to do while you’re in Austin?Drink beer in the sun, eat Mexican food, go to the springs maybe.Where will you be by this time next year?Probably finishing up our third record.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Jones      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jones. Photograph: PRWho are you?It’s just me, I sing and write my songs.Where are you from?I’m born and raised in London.What do you sound like?Soulful voice, classic timeless-sounding songs, in a modern bed of sound … slightly melancholy.What do you sing/rap about?I sing about what I know, and what I see around me. Be it love, be it society, be it my mind …What’s your look?I like things with a classic feel, so I’ll say classic.How are you going to blow everyone off-stage?I generally sing my heart out, wherever I go. I’ll be bringing my lungs with me to Austin.What else are you hoping to do while you’re in Austin?I’d like to soak in some of the culture around, check out Texas. Also catch some panel discussions!Where will you be by this time next year?I’d like to be on tour playing my album to everyone.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Denzel Curry      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Denzel Curry. Photograph: JMPWho are you?My artist name is actually my real name – Denzel Curry.Where are you from?I’m from south Florida – Carol City to be exact. What do you sound like?I think I sound like the apocalypse destroying the Earth to the sounds of trumpets skating across the heavens played by angels.What do you sing/rap about?I rap about life in general, particularly my life, unless telling a story. My upbringing and my daily day-to-day struggles and emotions make up most of my music.What’s your look?There’s no look really, I’m still finding it if anything. But I’m not super into fashion and my pops raised me that way so I wouldn’t be a slave to material stuff.How are you going to blow everyone off-stage?By giving the best me possible to the people. Overall just being Ultimate.What else are you hoping to do while you’re in Austin?I’m hoping my schedule allows me to see more shows and meet more new people. Also hope to see some old friends as well.Where will you be by this time next year?On a whole new platform with bigger audiences, better music, better visuals and crazier shows that are mad theatrical.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Seratones      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Seratones. Photograph: Chad KamenshineWho are you?AJ Haynes – vocals & rhythm guitar; Adam Davis – bass; Connor Davis – lead guitar; Jesse Gabriel – drums.Where are you from?Shreveport, Louisiana.What do you sound like?Rock’n’roll.What do you sing/rap about?Buy the ticket, take the ride. I like to sing about the ascent, the climax and the inevitable fall.What’s your look?Whatever clothes smell mostly clean. I always wear my dancing boots and a good red lipstick.How are you going to blow everyone off-stage?We have a lot of fun playing rock’n’roll. It would be a shame to keep it all to ourselves. We hope those who feel the spirit join us on stage, freak out, and have a good time. Bring the ruckus. Turn this mutha out. Get gone.What else are you hoping to do while you’re in Austin?Listen and dance to other awesome bands, drink all the Topo Chico and most of the available tequila blanco … and eat lots of tacos.Where will you be by this time next year?Hopefully, on tour supporting another record.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Darq E Freaker      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Darq E Freaker. Photograph: Mehdi LacosteWho are you?Just me – I play a fusion of different types of music that I call urban electronica.Where are you from?London.What do you sound like?Technicolored trip.What do you sing/rap about?Money, cars, cash and heauxes till I wake up and realize that I’m DJing.What’s your look?Aqua goth meets street thot.How are you going to blow everyone off-stage?With some exclusives and tracks from my new EP, ADHD.What else are you hoping to do while you’re in Austin?Ride the bronco wearing a bolo and lift my hat up as the bronco bucks. Then eat some authentic Texan BBQ as I’ve consumed rip-offs all my life.Where will you be by this time next year?At Coachella.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Kevin Morby      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kevin Morby. Photograph: PRWho are you?I sing and play guitar. My band includes: Justin Sullivan on the drums, Cyrus Gengras on the bass and Meg Duffy on the guitar and vocals.Where are you from? I am from Kansas City but now live in Los Angeles.What do you sound like?Uh-mazing!What do you sing/rap about?Plants and animals.What’s your look?Very high fashion mag.How are you going to blow everyone off-stage? With our uh-mazing look and fresh new sound.What else are you hoping to do while you’re in Austin? Drink a Lone Star.Where will you be by this time next year? Unclear at this time, sorry.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Sextile      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sextile. Photograph: PRWho are you?Melissa Scaduto – drums; Eddie Weubben – synth; Brady Keehn – guitar and vox; Kenny Elkin – bass and guitar.Where are you from?Los Angeles.What do you sound like?Our live sound is much more energetic than our record – it’s like a mix between early Coil, early Modern English, early DAF and early Jesus & Mary Chain, especially the JMC shows from 85.What do you sing/rap about?What everyone else sings about, life.What’s your look?The goodwill bins. Most, if not all, of our clothes are from the goodwill bins.How are you going to blow everyone off-stage?Not to sound like a dick but a lot of modern music is boring and evokes no emotion. It ends up feeling soulless. So the format we deal with, we hope will at least evoke some kind of emotion or leave some sort of impression.What else are you hoping to do while you’re in Austin?See some friends, thrift and go swimming.Where will you be by this time next year?Hopefully on tour in Europe.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Better Person      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Better Person. Photograph: Moritz FrendenbergWho are you?It’s only me. I write and record songs and then sing them on stage.Where are you from?Berlin.What do you sound like?Like Better Person.What do you sing/rap about?Adam Byczkowski.What’s your look?Simple.How are you going to blow everyone off-stage?Play good shows.What else are you hoping to do while you’re in Austin?Eat some In-N-Out, see friends.Where will you be by this time next year?Still on earth, hopefully.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 