The girlfriend of a man stabbed to death after looking at a fellow passenger who was throwing chips on the top deck of a London bus told an Old Bailey jury yesterday of the 33-second fight that robbed her "calm and private" partner of his life.Kerry Barker, 38, a legal secretary from Muswell Hill, north London, said she and Richard Whelan, 27, had been sitting on the top deck of the No 43 bus after a night when they noticed a man at the back of the bus laughing and throwing chips.He had already caused one young woman to leave the bus, after throwing three chips at her, and a "tipsy" Ms Barker predicted: "He's going to throw them at me next." He then did.When Mr Whelan turned to look at Anthony Joseph, 22, an unemployed man who had been freed from remand that afternoon, Mr Joseph stood up and came towards him."Richard stood up and I turned around and they were fighting. It took me by surprise," recalled Ms Barker. "I remember the man physically being on top of Richard and when I went over I saw Richard was looking quite weak and hitting him back. The man was covering Richard and as such Richard was trying to fight back."I remember trying to pull the man off Richard. I was ringing the bell. I was screaming: 'Leave him alone.'"Towards the end of the fight, she saw that Mr Joseph "had a knife in his right hand". "The man then just got up and started walking off the bus. Richard then told me he had been stabbed ... My first reaction was we had to get some help and I helped to get him to the bottom of the bus." Mr Whelan, her boyfriend of two years, was pronounced dead in hospital an hour and 17 minutes after the attack. CCTV footage revealed that the fracas, from the 6ft-tall defendant moving from the back of the bus to the stabbing, took just 33 seconds.The court heard that Mr Whelan, a hospitality agent, from Kentish Town, north London, received six or seven stab wounds, including a wound to the heart, which proved fatal. CCTV stills show him sitting down and trying to fend off Mr Joseph as the attacker held a knife. The stills also showed Mr Joseph biting Mr Wheldon's fingers as he tried to fend him off. The attack, at 10pm on Friday July 29, 2005, came less than eight hours after Mr Joseph, from Islington, north London, was released from Forest Bank prison, Manchester, where he had been on remand for five weeks accused of an offence against a family. The case was dropped and it was "an angry man who returned ... that day", said Jonathan Turner QC, prosecuting.When back at Euston station, just after 6.30pm, Mr Joseph made three calls to the father. Mr Turner said CCTV footage and forensic evidence meant there was no dispute Mr Joseph was the killer, nor was it self-defence. Mr Joseph denies murder. The defence seek to argue that he was suffering from such an "abnormality of mind" that he was guilty of manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility.The crown dispute this, said Mr Turner, since Mr Joseph, who carried a knife down the front of his trousers even when relaxing at home, made no mention of his mental illness until two days after his arrest when a doctor, who examined him, said he was "feigning mental illness".Mr Turner said: "He knew what he was doing and while what he was doing was cruel, brutal and fatal it was nevertheless deliberate and rational."The hearing continues.