It took the murder of Stephen Lawrence, and six years of relentless effort by his grieving parents, to lay bare the entrenched racism of police culture. In the face of the damning Macpherson report, the Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, Sir Paul Condon, has at last vowed to root out racism from the police force. It took a scandal to make him say it. Seventeen years ago, the police were squirming in embarrassment over another scandal. Compared with the tidal wave caused by the Lawrence report, this earlier case made only ripples, but it was a scandal nonetheless. The first episode of Police, Roger Graef's fly-on-the-wall documentary series, was screened in January 1982. In it, horrified viewers saw officers from Thames Valley interrogate a woman reporting a rape. Alone in a room with first three, then two policemen, the woman was subjected to an inquisition: 'Have you ever been on the game? How many times have you had sex? How many men have you had sex with? Can you count them on the fingers of one hand?' The officers' brutal insensitivity, the smirking and shouting, the casual assumptions made about the woman's character, are all the more shocking because the men knew they were being filmed. The culture of white male organisations like the police force is characteristically sexist as well as racist. The reason why is rarely addressed. Racism and sexism function both to create and enhance solidarity. If this is questioned - when, for example, women enter the force - the level often increases. Addressing sexism, like racism, is no easy task as it is embedded in both the internal processes and the service delivery of the police. In other words, it is institutional. Any attempt to contest such attitudes is likely to meet with a backlash aimed at preserving the status quo. Those who hold sexist and racist attitudes, therefore, rather than being 'bad apples', are conformists. Graef's programme had a marked impact. The press had a field day, with campaigning journalist Marje Proops using her page in the Mirror to demand that rape suites be established. The Home Office issued a circular calling for improved police training to deal with rape, the appointment of more women police surgeons and the provision of better facilities for rape examinations. Seventeen years on, things have improved - for some complainants at least. In the Met, a week's training for officers involved in rape cases has been introduced and rape suites are available in most areas. More recently, a chaperone system has been introduced with a female officer assigned to a case from the outset who assumes responsibility for all future communication with the complainant. The greater involvement of women officers seems to have made a difference. While researching Policing Sexual Assault, the book I co-authored with Jeanne Gregory, we approached women who reported sexual assault between 1990 and 1992. Forty responded, 10 of whom said it would be too painful to be interviewed. The reasons they gave are a moving testimony to the pain they experienced. One woman whose case had been dropped wrote: 'I am finding it hard to cope and do not want to be reminded of what happened.' Of the 30 complainants we interviewed, most had been pleasantly surprised by the sympathetic treatment they received. The medical examination, however, was almost unanimously condemned by women who described it in some cases as like being raped a second time. There was also widespread dissatisfaction with lack of communication about the progress of their case and some women were unhappy about the way the case was investigated. Facilities have improved, but little attempt appears to have been made to challenge police attitudes. Here, sexism and racism are intermeshed. The police often assumed an assailant was black. When one complainant refuted this, the policeman was shocked and commented: 'Makes you ashamed to be white, doesn't it?' Myths about false allegations are still widespread and most cases in which the suspect is known to the victim are still dropped ('no-crimed' in police jargon). One young black woman interviewed said she'd been held prisoner and raped by her ex-boyfriend, and had feared for her life. Although she had been examined in a rape suite and made a statement, she had heard nothing more. She did not think she had been believed. Her case had in fact been no-crimed. Some complainants are still inappropriately questioned about their sexual history, unaware that this information is passed to the defence barrister. Police surgeons were also responsible for inadvertently providing information about the complainant's sexual history, such as whether they had ever had an abortion. Complainants' statements, made available by the defendant's solicitor, have been handed around as pornography by convicted rapists in prison. So while things may have improved, more work is still needed. In the same way that there is a link between the way black officers are treated and the way members of the black community are treated, so the treatment of women officers is connected to the way sexual assault is responded to. If women are referred to by colleagues as 'whores, bitches and slags', as Kate Kellaway alleged in her successful sex discrimination case against Thames Valley Police in 1997, a sympathetic reception for rape complainants is hardly likely. The problem in part lies in the force's failure to change its composition to reflect the community. Women still represent only 14 per cent, concentrated at the bottom of the hierarchy. This reflects recruitment strategy and a failure to create a positive working environment for women. Her Majesty's Constabulary in 1992 found policewomen suffering persistent low-level harassment; a 1996 report noted 'scepticism, tokenism and indifference' to harassment. Progress can be made only if the autonomy of the police is brought under close control and scrutiny by strengthening accountability to local communities. It is only then that the institutional racism and sexism can be successfully challenged. If Sir Paul Condon is serious, he should invite such scrutiny. Otherwise the progress he makes is bound to be as slow, painful and partial as the progress made since the scandal of 1982.Below is a transcript of the interrogation of the rape victimThe complainant has described how three men raped her, then gave her 16p for her bus fare...  Police officer Brian Kirk: (Shouting) Listen to me. I've been sitting here for 20 minutes, half an hour, listening to you. It's the biggest load of bollocks I've ever heard. I could get very annoyed very shortly... Stop mucking us all about. C: I'm not mucking about. K: I'm not saying you're lying. But get rid of all the fruitiness, get rid of the beauty about it. C: (Crying) It's not beautiful at all. K: Some of it is. All this crap about bus stops and tea towels to wipe yourself down with. What the hell's going on? If nothing's going on, let's pack it in and go home...  Police officer John McIntyre: I would agree that you have had sex this afternoon... but I think you've been a willing party... The story you've told us is a fairytale. C: (Shouting) It happened! K: I'm not saying it didn't happen. I'm talking about the embroidery...  M: We know what's happened here. You've had a hard time... You've had a long, long time of being treated for depression, haven't you? (Shouts) Haven't you? C: (Nods) M: You go to the pub, you meet a couple of fellas, they say, let's go back for a coffee and it all goes a bit far...  C: I didn't even know them before! M: (Incredulous) You got into the car with them. You made no effort to get away from them... K: I've met some that have been raped and they think their life is crumbling around their ankles like a pair of knickers with the elastic gone. Doesn't hold water this, does it? I'm not saying it's not true... I'm saying there's a lot more to this. Unfortunately we'll never hear the other side... All we've got is your side and you're making a fairytale out of it. C: I'm not. K: I think you are. M: Do you realise when we have you examined, it will show whether or not you've had sexual intercourse with three men this afternoon? C: I know. So it should show...  M: (Interrupts) It will confirm whether you've had sex with three men. If it does, then I say you went willingly... You could easily have run away. Easily... You're not frightened. C: I was frightened. M: You weren't. You show no signs of emotion. Every now and then you have a little tear... I spoke to your boyfriend... That's how I know all about your periods and when you last had sex... Why on earth didn't you scream and shout ?...  K: (Bored) Do you or do you not want to make a complaint of rape? C: No, I don't.  • Policing Sexual Assault by Jeanne Gregory and Sue Lees is published by Routledge on March 11 at £15.99. 