I have been interested in the issue of domestic violence ever since, as a newly qualified barrister, I was sent to represent clients trying to get injunctions to stop their partners beating them up. When I started practising, the Domestic Violence and Matrimonial Proceedings Act 1976 had just been passed, protecting victims more comprehensively than had been possible under the common law. We are poised now for another big step forward with the plans announced in the Queen's speech to improve andstrengthen the law on domestic violence.I was shocked by what I learned was going on behind closed doors - the routine beatings, bullyings, women attacked even when heavily pregnant. Tragically, one client of mine was eventually murdered by her partner. I quickly realised that this violence can take the form of emotional or psychological abuse as well as physical assault, and that these threats and denigration may, in certain cases, be as harmful as actual violence.I discovered, too, that this violence was not simply the result of drink or drugs, nor was it confined to the poor or even to one sex. Domestic violence is about power and the breakdown and distortion of an intimate relationship. It is about the desire of one partner to dominate and control the other. More than 25 years later, domestic violence is still with us, but thankfully our attitude towards the problem has changed. Today the police, the Crown Prosecution Service and the courts all treat domestic violence as a serious crime. Rather than regarding the matter as "just a domestic", the policy today is to treat the fact that violence takes place in the home as an aggravating not a mitigating factor. It is a problem which belongs to society as a whole, and which should properly be the subject of debate and co-operation between health, policy and legal professionals. Despite this change in attitude, an incident of domestic violence is reported to the police every minute. Domestic violence accounts for nearly one quarter of all recorded crime. On average, 120 women and 30 men are killed every year by a current or former partner. Recent research shows that even today one in five young men and one in 10 young women believe that violence towards a partner is sometimes acceptable. Clearly, while social awareness of the issue is on the rise, the problem is by no means solved. In June the government published its consultation document Safety and Justice. Its main proposals now form the basis of the new domestic violence, crime and victims bill, police are to be given new powers to deal with domestic violence, including powers to arrest for breach of non-molestation orders, and common assault will be made an arrestable offence. The criminal courts will be able to issue a civil restraining order to protect a domestic violence victim, even when a defendant is acquitted in the criminal courts. Domestic violence victims will also benefit from the proposed victims commissioner, who will report directly to parliament, and the victims' bill of rights. The consultation document was widely welcomed, not least in a speech at Downing Street last September by the president of the family division, Dame Elizabeth Butler-Sloss. She supported the "joined up thinking" shown by the proposal to share infor mation about the progress of domestic violence cases between the civil and criminal courts, particularly in areas such as bail decisions and child protection. She also welcomed the idea of allowing criminal courts to impose bail conditions which reflect family court powers and the power to grant restraining orders even after acquittal by the criminal courts. She did sound a note of caution, however, pointing out that because of the different burdens of proof and rules of evidence it may be difficult for a judge simply to move to make civil orders after an acquittal. She also raised concerns about the role of the victim in criminal proceedings, where she is not a party and is normally not separately represented, and where the judge - unlike those in the family courts - may well not be an expert in this area. It was with these comments in mind that I accepted an invitation to visit the domestic violence unit of the superior court in Washington DC last month. The court was set up in 1996 with the benefit of federal funds which are sadly now under threat. I had the chance to speak to the judges and to observe some of the cases. The court has brought together under one roof all domestic violence cases, both family and criminal. Each of the six judges undergoes special training in domestic violence. Research by the Domestic Violence Clinic at Georgetown University Law Centre has found a 25% increase in the number of protection orders granted and a dramatic increase in both the number and value of child support orders - from an average of $50 dollars a month to $300. The researchers also discovered that it is the judges' attitude which is key to the success of the initiative because of its impact on everyone else involved in these cases. There is a great deal in common between the basic family and criminal law in our two countries, but what was striking was that the coordination in information-sharing and scheduling in parallel civil and criminal cases went beyond what is envisaged even in the Queen's speech. This has led to huge improvements in the way cases are handled. I saw for myself how the judge was able to call for both the civil and criminal files to be before him and to make pre-trial orders which ensured that the proceedings ran smoothly together. Bail conditions mirrored the family courts' child contact orders, while the judge was able to list the proceedings so that the criminal trial came on quickly and immediately before the final family hearing. All the advocates in both proceedings were before the court, making the pre-trial procedure run much more smoothly. The emphasis is on long-term safety and security of the victim, not just pursuit of the trial process. So the court also conducts post-trial monitoring into, for instance, the effectiveness of probation and restraining orders and other ways of trying to deal with domestic violence. It has found, for example, that while the counselling and programmes for batterers did have an effect on the attitudes of first-time offenders, they had little impact on those with a record of such assaults. What did succeed were victim treatment programmes. Indeed, the evidence suggests that the best way to prevent future domestic violence is to empower the victims. This is one of the direct results of improved coordination between criminal and family jurisdictions because it enables the court to take better informed decisions about their long-term future - particularly in those cases where there is likely to be some future contact between victim and attacker because of their children. The current proposals on domestic violence, in themselves a great step forward, open the door for the UK to learn from what has been seen to work in Washington. And, in particular, whether a combined court approach would help overcome some of the difficulties caused by overlap between the family and criminal jurisdictions, the differences in the burden of proof and coordination of protective orders so we can further improve protection and support to victims.