We have probably all had our fill of witnessing the excruciating spectacle of Paul Gadd/Gary Glitter playing musical planes to avoid returning to London for a life of running from tabloid newshounds. Many of us have certainly stomached enough of the home secretary, Jacqui Smith's "tough talking" in her carefully planned press interviews announcing yet more clampdowns on sex offenders.  The Home Office has legislated almost every year of the last 11 on sex offenders. But government failure to effectively implement the changes in law means children can only be considered marginally safer. It is high time the home secretary stopped congratulating herself – agreeing press releases announcing tough new laws is one thing: making the laws work is the hard part.The Home Office proudly proclaims: "the UK has some of the toughest laws in the world for sex offenders." Aside from the US, that may be so. There is certainly an extensive range of practical options that could be deployed against these offenders, but the enforcement agencies are failing to do so. A report published last weekend by Ecpat (End Child Prostitution, Child Pornography and the Trafficking of Children for Sexual Purposes) accuses the government of "turning a blind eye to the dozens of British sex offenders who travel or work abroad".  Ecpat (a coalition of leading children's charities, including NSPCC, Save the Children, Unicef UK and the Children's Society) expose the fact that only five foreign travel orders (FTOs) have ever been imposed by the British courts. British offenders on the sex offender's register are still now legally able to travel abroad for three days without any declaration to the police. Many travel to meet paedophile networks in eastern Europe for weekends abusing children, although the government has announced in the last few days its intention to close this loophole later this year. As Ecpat say: "The British government has failed to prevent child sex tourism despite having laws in place for over 10 years." The Ecpat report  Return to Sender highlights a pattern of sweeping legislative changes from government without showing the commitment to make an actual difference to the protection of children. For example, since 2001, the multi-agency public protection arrangements (MAPPA), has been a "holistic approach" where police, probation and housing agencies manage Britain's 35,000 released sex offenders. As Professor David Wilson of Birmingham University stated on Cif on Monday, MAPPA is a recognised "world-beater" as a model for risk management. However it remains totally unfunded. The government line on the "close monitoring of offenders" is a myth – very often there are several months between police visits. The sex offender's register, established in 1997, was a groundbreaking development, but the list of countries with a comparable system of recording offenders' movements (the US, Australia) remains pitifully small. Christine Beddoe, director of Ecpat UK, says: The government must take immediate steps to develop bi-lateral cooperation agreements and joint investigations with other countries to return sex offenders to the UK and give clear guidance on when travel bans should be used to protect the world's most vulnerable children.The minister in the Home Office responsible for sex offenders, Vernon Coaker, has already announced more measures "to send a tough message to deter travelling sex tourists". Sex offenders are well aware not all acts of abuse are specific crimes in every country; the age of consent varies widely in Europe alone. Coaker said UK nationals who commit a sexual offence abroad would be prosecuted regardless of whether it was an offence in the other country. But offenders who are prosecuted abroad and are deported back here after serving their sentence are still not required to sign the sex offender's register. They are free to travel and abuse children abroad again. The Ecpat report refers to a 77-year-old British offender who has been arrested six times in Thailand since 1991, for various serious offences. Yet despite this, he was free to travel back there again in March, when he was arrested for abusing an eight-year-old boy. Gadd/Glitter has a previous offence of child pornography so he must re-sign the sex offender's register, and we are assured "will face up to five years in jail if he does keep to the rules". The reality is somewhat different; nearly all non-compliers are simply fined, often less than £100. Perhaps we should be more understanding of the government; after all Coaker, despite being a parliamentary under-secretary, the lowest rank of minister, has an astonishingly heavy portfolio. He is responsible for all policy on sexual assault, gun and knife crime, domestic violence, victims of crime, antisocial behaviour and the entire drugs strategy. Sympathy might be more forthcoming if the government could show they were listening to the experts in child protection. The most significant recent programme of work by the government on sex offenders was the child sex offender review. It was commissioned by the then home secretary, John Reid, in 2006 to implement a "Sarah's law" where police would be required to provide individuals such as single mothers with details of convicted sex offenders living in the community who could have access to their children. Reid asserted "this information should not be the sole preserve of officialdom" and for months bathed in the populist adulation afforded him by the News of the World. When children's charities, the police and probation service were consulted, they almost unanimously advised against and cried out for adequate resources for integrated public protection systems like MAPPA. Reid's officials pointed to the thoroughly negative experience from the US of "Megan's law" where in many states, a threatening community has driven the 'registration compliance rates' of sex offenders below 70%. In Britain, according to Association of Chief Police Officers, 97% of offenders comply with the sex offender's register. A missing offender is an unmanaged offender and is a greater risk to children. In spite of such fierce opposition, the pilots for Sarah's law will start across four English police forces in a few weeks. Timing further announcements around the time of Gadd's release has reinforced the public's false view that most sex offenders are strangers and predators. All child protection charities agree that at least 80% of offenders are known to the victim and very often are family members. For parents, grandparents and guardians, protection of our children ranks highest of our priorities. To play these political games is pretty shameful.