Cash found during raids on an alleged IRA money-laundering ring in the Irish republic was linked to the Northern Bank robbery, Bertie Ahern, the Irish prime minister, confirmed last night.Irish police investigating an IRA money-laundering operation seized almost £3m, including around £60,000 in Northern Bank notes, during raids on homes and businesses in Cork and Dublin last month. Weeks of forensic tests have been carried out to establish whether any of the money was linked to the £26.5m Northern Bank robbery in Belfast before Christmas, which police on both sides of the border had blamed on the IRA. After the raids and arrests of several people, including a Cork businessman, another man in Cork was detained after a neighbour reported him burning bank notes in his back garden. Mr Ahern told the BBC that Irish police were now sure that some of the cash recovered was part of the haul from the Northern Bank. He said that police had carried out extensive forensic tests. "They are quite satisfied, professionally absolutely and totally satisfied as I understand it, that that money was part of the haul from the north." Northern Ireland's chief constable, Hugh Orde, said earlier this month that there were "clear indications" that money found in Cork came from the Northern Bank raid, but the Irish police commissioner had not confirmed this. Meanwhile, the sisters of Robert McCartney who was murdered by IRA members outside a Belfast bar have received hate mail in response to their campaign to see his killers brought to trial. It emerged last night that excrement and a letter threatening to stab the sisters had been sent to Paula McCartney's home in the Catholic enclave of Short Strand in Belfast while the McCartneys had been in Washington meeting President Bush. The handwritten letter which claimed to be from the IRA and Sinn Féin, told the sisters: "You will all die in time," adding they were on a hit list and would not be shot but knifed. Enclosed with the letter was a photograph of the sisters, which had been smeared with excrement. Claire McCartney, who opened the letter, said she was angered and disgusted.