The cardboard boxes are piled up, packed, in her front room and the walls have already been stripped bare. In the middle of this desolation, Kristina Caesar is perched on the edge of her sofa, a mug of tea in hand, quietly explaining why she has no choice but to leave her family home. "There are too many memories in this house," she says, looking around her. "They are good memories ... but when the person behind those good memories is not here the pain is incredible."It is four months since Kristina's 15-year-old son Adam Regis was stabbed and killed - possibly with a sword - a few hundred yards from his home in east London. Adam had never been in trouble, and was unknown to the police: detectives described his murder as an "unprovoked, gratuitous and random attack".He was the sixth teenager to be killed on the capital's streets in the space of 10 weeks - a sudden rush of murders that sparked a national debate about gang culture and the apparently growing use of knives and guns by young people. The first victim, Jevon Henry, was stabbed in the heart in St John's Wood at the end of January; in the following two and a half months five more teenage boys were killed. Three were shot, and two - one of them Adam - were stabbed.So far four people have been charged with murder in relation to these attacks, but although detectives searching for Adam's killers have made several arrests no one has yet been charged with his murder.In the days and weeks following her son's death Kristina's grief was plain to see at press conferences; speaking about her son was a way of keeping the story in the public eye. Now though, while the police investigation quietly continues, the media frenzy has fallen away and Kristina, a single parent, has been left to try to make a future for her remaining children."Every morning," she says, her nine-year-old son and her daughter, 13, "still go into Adam's bedroom to wake him up. Every morning without fail. I overheard them the other day making a pact that before we move they are going to go in and tell him our new address. They are just trying to find a way to deal with him not being here any more."Detectives now believe that Adam - a nephew of Olympic sprinter John Regis - may have been attacked as part of a gang initiation ceremony, picked at random as he walked home following an afternoon trip to the cinema. As Detective Chief Inspector Matthew Horne, who is leading the investigation, has said, that theory makes the murder "even more sinister, if that is possible".CCTV footage released by the police shows five young men in a Volkswagen Sirocco circling the area of Upton Park where Adam was killed. The footage shows two of the men following Adam seconds before he was stabbed - then returning to the car, in which all five drove off. Adam had been alone after walking his friends - three girls and a boy - home. He had phoned his mum to say he was on his way and was talking to his girlfriend on his mobile when he was attacked. Detectives say she heard him take a sharp breath and then start running."He phoned me about 7.30pm to say he had dropped the girls off," said Kristina. "But, being Adam, he wanted to make sure his last friend was safe before getting the bus. He told me he would be home soon. That was the last time I spoke to him."When Adam did not return she tried his mobile again. "There was no answer. I couldn't understand it. I kept phoning and phoning. Then, just after 10pm, a policeman called me and asked where I was. I said to them, 'What's he done now?' I thought he had tripped over a pavement or something - big as he was, he was always accident prone. But they didn't tell me, they just said he had had an accident."At the hospital, she recalls, "I said to the nurse, 'What's happened to my Adam?' because I could see her face and I knew something was wrong." After several minutes Kristina was taken into a side room by two doctors. "They said to me that they were sorry they couldn't save Adam. I still didn't understand. I remember asking them, 'Save Adam from what?' That's when they told me he was dead."Murder victims are often described in glowing terms, especially by their family. But according to his friends, teachers and the police, it was not just that Adam had never been in trouble - he had always managed to combine immense popularity with genuine kindness. Kristina remembers taking Adam to the local park when he was a young boy. "We were only there for an hour or so. At the end he said was it OK if he brought some friends back. Of course I said yes and the next thing I knew there were about 20 children of all shapes and sizes following us home. But that was just him - he really loved people and they loved him back."To Kristina, he was her "rock", a role model for her younger children, a constant source of support and strength for her. At school he was "what they call a peacekeeper". "He would always make sure everyone was getting along, put his arm round anyone that was arguing, and say, 'Hey come on guys'," she says. "He was just a lovely, lovely boy and ... I miss him so much I can't say."Her voice cracks with frustration. "It makes me so angry because they do these things and it destroys lives. They destroyed a boy who had so much life and love - people really did love him so much. And they have destroyed my life."Last month a report by the home affairs select committee called for urgent action to tackle the growing numbers of black boys involved in serious crimes. It set out a series of recommendations and warned that young men whose fathers are absent are vulnerable to peer pressure and gangs. But Kristina - who continued to go out to work while bringing up her children alone - thinks that although boys need strong role models, the report was wrong to focus on fathers."Kids need a foundation at home," she insists. "If we as parents can't give them a foundation from home then they have got nothing. Parents have to be the first role model, and that's what I was for Adam. I brought him up on my own and everyone who knows me knows that - little as I am - he knew who was the boss. He respected me."Three days before Adam was killed, another teenager, Kodjo Yenga, died after being stabbed by a gang in west London. Kristina says that the boy's death had a real impact on her son. They watched the news together at home in her bedroom and, in a conversation that must now seem portentous, she says that they "talked about the gangs and the violence. I remember his words so clearly: 'Mummy what is wrong with these kids, what are they doing?' And he had a look in his eyes that told you he couldn't work out why anyone would do such a thing".