Stephen Shaw, the prisons ombudsman, who is charged with the task of investigating Harold Shipman's death, was clear yesterday that there is a limit to what the Prison Service can do to stop someone taking their own life."You have 70,000 people in prison. You do not have a situation, nor would you seek a situation, where they are all under 24-hour surveillance. That isn't possible. It isn't desirable. It isn't humane." But penal reformers questioned whether the fact that Shipman, like 20 other major killers, faced a "whole life" sentence with no hope of release contributed to his decision. Charles Bushell, of the Prison Governors' Association, agreed that there was little that could have been done to stop Shipman committing suicide: "It would be impossible to keep everybody under a suicide watch and for somebody who knows that it is likely that he is going to spend the rest of his life in prison, one of the few areas over which he can retain control is to decide how long that will be. "I suspect that given the age of the prisoner concerned and the amount of time he had been in, the only way that you could have avoided something like this would be to keep him strapped to a bed for 24 hours a day." The public anguish that by killing himself Shipman has somehow "cheated justice" and the impulse to blame the Prison Service for failing to keep him alive raise echoes of the debate over the abolition of capital punishment 40 years ago. The first prisoner to be told she would never be released was Myra Hindley in 1990, a decision made by then home secretary David Waddington. For her there was always the hope, however remote, that a new home secretary would decide not to confirm his predecessor's decision. But David Blunkett's new sentencing regime will mean an automatic "life means life" sentence for multiple killers. The Prison Service disputes the idea that the absence of any hope of release makes it far more difficult to keep these prisoners safe. It points to the record of recent years, saying that the group of 20 already serving whole life sentences have been kept alive. But there are worrying exceptions. It was a blow to the Prison Service when Fred West killed himself in Birmingham prison on New Year's Day 1995 before his trial for the house of horror murders could begin. As Harry Fletcher of Napo, the probation union, pointed out, Ian Huntley was able to hide two weeks' supply of anti-depressant pills in teabags for his suicide attempt last June, despite hourly surveillance. Ian Brady appears to crave death. He has tried, unsuccessfully, to persuade the courts to allow him to starve himself to death and is being force fed. Much was made yesterday of the fact that Shipman had not been on suicide watch since his arrival at Wakefield prison last June. The Prison Service, prison governors, the prison and probation officers all reported yesterday that he was not considered a suicide risk. A Prison Service spokeswoman said Shipman had been behaving "utterly normally" and had shown no signs of suicidal tendencies - even down to a telephone conversation with wife Primrose on Monday night. That meant as a category A prisoner, the highest security rating, he was not under 24-hour surveillance but was on an hourly check, although it would have been staggered to prevent him predicting the watch. There were calls yesterday to put all those who have been given whole life sentences under 24-hour surveillance, but the number of staff that would involve makes the idea unrealistic. The Prison Service found it impossible to maintain a 24-hour watch on Huntley without using inexperienced staff. Geoff Dobson, of the Prison Reform Trust, said: "The Criminal Justice Act 2003 will, through its measures for both life sentence prisoners and some prisoners serving indeterminate sentences, increase the number of those who have little or no hope of release, which will pose further challenges for those working in our prisons."