Nottingham police launched one of the UK's largest ever manhunts today for two men wanted over separate murders committed within a few miles of each other.Some 450 officers from eight forces combed through two and a half square kilometres of Annesley Woods in Nottinghamshire this morning after police received intelligence that the men "might be in certain areas". Thirty sniffer dogs and two helicopters with heat-seeking equipment also took part in the search. The first wanted man is Terry Rodgers, 55, who disappeared after allegedly shooting his newlywed daughter, Chanel Taylor, at her home in Huthwaite, Nottinghamshire just weeks after giving her away at her wedding. The second is Robert Boyer, 42, wanted in connection with the suspected revenge murder of a former coal miner. Mr Boyer vanished with an air rifle and warm clothing after a 62-year-old former member of the National Union of Mineworkers, Keith Frogson, was attacked and killed outside his home in the village of Annesley Woodhouse. The two men were believed to have had a heated argument about the 1984 miners' strike, which Mr Boyer had worked through. The murders were carried out within two weeks of each other, and both suspects were last spotted in the local area. There have been unconfirmed sightings of Mr Boyer in the woods, where he is known to have roamed for years, shooting rabbits and pigeons. Police said today they believed someone may be assisting Mr Rodgers, and reminded the public that anyone assisting a fugitive could be subject to prosecution. They also urged the public not to approach either man. A Nottingham police spokesman said there was no particular reason the search had been launched today rather than yesterday or tomorrow. He stressed that police had no reason to believe the two men had linked up.Police have been under pressure to move the investigations of the two murders forward. Lee Taylor discovered the body of his new wife, Chanel, 23, at their home two weeks ago today. The couple had married just seven weeks earlier, and her father had recently moved in with the couple. Six days after the murder, detectives discovered a shotgun in the house.Mr Frogson was found dead on his doorstep on July 19 following a brutal attack as he left a local pub in the Nottinghamshire pit village where he lived. Police believe he was killed by more than one sharp instrument. A crossbow was discovered near the scene. Police later named Mr Boyer, a so-called "scab" who joined the rival Union of Democratic Mineworkers, as their prime suspect in the case. It is believed a bitter feud between the pair could have led to Mr Frogson's death.The operation began at around 5am and is expected to continue for the rest of the day and possibly into tomorrow.