An 18-year-old man shot dead in a shop in south London was an innocent bystander caught up in a suspected gang fight, Scotland Yard said today.Ryan Bravo was shot in a Costcutter shop in Walworth last night and was pronounced dead at the scene.A 19-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of murder and was being held at a south London police station. Officers from Operation Trident, set up to investigate gun crime in London's black communities, were leading the investigation. Bravo is the 22nd teenager to die violently in London this year. Police said he was shot moments after two other black men of a similar age pushed their way into the shop behind him. They were thought to have been running away from someone else, and several shots were fired.The victim's mother tonight described him "a decent, hard-working young man" who was greatly missed."This is an extremely difficult time for all of us that knew and loved Ryan and I would ask that we are given the time and space to grieve in private," Elfrida Kiffin said."I would urge anyone that knows or saw anything to come forward and assist officers from Operation Trident in their ongoing efforts to trace witnesses to this cold-blooded and reckless act."A local man who was in the shop said he heard up to four shots in less than 10 seconds. "I was in the shop last night buying cigarettes and four or five guys ran in. I didn't think anything bad was going to happen because I thought they were joking and laughing. "They didn't look scared or angry or anything. But then I heard shots, three or four. I've never seen anyone get shot before. It was like something out of a film. "It was all over in about seven seconds. I just put all of my stuff down and ran out of the shop. A hysterical lady ran out after me. Two people ran out, got on mopeds and drove away. I'm lucky to be alive."Another witness said the victim was hit in the back of the neck as panicked shoppers tried to escape. Detective superintendent Gary Richardson, from Trident, said: "We are keeping an open mind regarding the motive of this murder. However, it appears at this stage that the victim has no links to gang activity and that he was an innocent bystander caught up in the crossfire, and was not the intended target. "The victim was walking down Walworth Road with family members. As they entered Costcutters, two black men forced their way into the shop behind them as if they were trying to get away from something. As they did so, shots were fired. "Up to five male suspects drove away on three mopeds in the direction of Boyson Road. "I am appealing for anyone who was inside Costcutters or outside the shop at the time of the shooting to contact police."Police were called at about 9.40pm to the Walworth Road store, which is close to the junction with Camberwell Road. Paramedics could not save the shot man and he was pronounced dead at the scene at 10.25pm.Those responsible may have been prowling the area for some time, possibly as they searched for their intended victims, police said. Investigators were also considering whether the murder was linked to a shooting in Lambeth earlier in the day when a youth was hit in the leg.The shop remained shut today and was cordoned off with a police guard. A post-mortem examination was to be held at Greenwich mortuary. Seventeen London teenagers have died in stabbings this year and another three have been shot dead.