The only suspect in the Suzy Lamplugh murder case yesterday denied any involvement in her disappearance, saying he was not playing mind games with the police and complaining he had been "tried and convicted in the media".A statement by convicted murderer John Cannan, who was named by the Metropolitan police as their prime suspect, was released at a hotel in Manchester by his solicitor, Matthew Claughton. He said: "As John Cannan made clear through his previous solicitor more than 10 years ago, he has never met the estate agent Suzy Lamplugh. John Cannan was not involved in her disappearance and murder in 1986."There has never been any formal naming of him as the suspect, although it has long been speculated that his name has been leaked by the police." He said that Cannan, 47, was particularly distressed at suggestions he was playing mind games with the police "and the inference that he could at least have the decency to tell the Lamplugh family where Suzy's body is buried". This month police held a press conference in connection with the Lamplugh case. Despite previous assurances from the crown prosecution service that Cannan's solicitors would be kept informed of events, they had no knowledge of the conference. A file had been sent to the CPS, but there was insufficient evidence to take the case against Cannan to court. "The television announcement made at that conference was the first we knew of the formal decision that no charges were to be brought against John Cannan," Mr Claughton said. "Because we had no prior knowledge of the announcement, we were effectively denied the opportunity of responding at that time on his behalf." Lamplugh, 25, disappeared in July 1986 while showing a client, who called himself Mr Kipper, around a vacant house in Fulham, south-west London. Three days before she vanished Cannan was released from a hostel at Wormwood Scrubs prison, where he had been serving a six-year sentence for rape. In prison he was known by other inmates as Kipper. He did not become a suspect until he was arrested for the abduction, murder and rape of Shirley Banks, a newly married sales manager, whom he bludgeoned to death in Bristol in October 1987. Cannan is now a category A prisoner at Full Sutton jail in Yorkshire. He has been interviewed by police on four occasions, but has always denied any involvement in Lamplugh's murder. Cannan had also attempted to write to national newspapers but his letters were withheld by the prison service - something his solicitors believe it had no right to do. "John Cannan is absolutely devastated at the way in which he has been treated by the police," Mr Claughton added. "He has, to all intents and purposes, been tried and convicted by the media." He said that, when the police were appealing for more evidence, it was not concerning potential suspects but solely in relation to John Cannan. It was unprecedented for such an appeal to be made on national television in circumstances where the CPS had advised there was insufficient evidence to proceed. Mr Claughton said that, as far as John Cannan was concerned, there seemed to be no presumption of innocence, and no legal protection. He believed he would forever be labelled as the man who murdered Suzy Lamplugh, which was "completely wrong".