Rape crisis services in Britain are on the verge of collapse, throwing into question the effectiveness of last week's legislation designed to boost the rape conviction rate.Of the 45 centres offering help and support to victims of rape across the country, seven have closed in the past 18 months, while one of Britain's biggest and most active centres is fighting closure. 'We're delighted that legislation is going to be tightened, but most women won't get the advantage of the new legislation unless they have somewhere to go to help them report the crime in the first place,' said Helen Jones, of the Rape Crisis Federation of England and Wales, who spent two years sitting on the Home Office consultation group debating the changes in the law. 'The new legislation, welcome as it is, brings its own problems because it has encouraged people to think that because the issue has been nationally recognised, crisis groups are no longer at risk.' Rape convictions are down in Britain from 25 per cent in 1985 to 7 per cent in 2000 and already victims needing help and advice face a lottery, with no centres in the South West and nothing north of Cumbria. There are only two centres in Wales and just three in and around London. The situation will soon get worse if Create - Britain's biggest rape crisis centre in Cleveland, which is approached by over 1,500 victims of rape each each year - loses its battle for funds. 'Hopefully, the Government's new legislation will encourage more women to report their ordeals,' said Alison Harris, the group's chair. 'But that means more support and counselling will be needed and the importance of organisations such as ours can't be underestimated.' Half of Britain's remaining rape crisis groups exist on less than £20,000 a year, raised entirely from donations, and operate without any paid workers at all, while one in five continues to function with less than £5,000. Lack of funding is severely hampering groups that continue to operate, as Lizzie, not her real name, discovered when she was raped last month by a man she met at a party. 'I wanted to go to the police but, before I could bring myself to do that, I needed basic information about what that would entail,' said the 37-year-old events organiser from north London. 'I spent two days trying to find someone to tell me what I needed to know; I trawled the internet and the phone book for the numbers of crisis groups, but despite ringing 11 organisations, I found their numbers had either been suspended, didn't work or went automatically on to answerphone. I almost gave up. If it took me two days to get information, what was it going to be like when I did go to the police?' Rape crisis groups admit that the lack of funding severely damages their ability to help clients. Kim Thomas, head of the Women and Girl's Network, the only active group in central London, receives 10,000 calls a year but, because of a lack of funds, has a waiting list of up to one year before they can even call back women who contact them. 'About 80 per cent of women who contact us can't get a service,' she said. The network recently received a last-minute reprieve from the Association of London Government, enabling them to re-establish their helpline, but other groups have not been so fortunate. Women Against Rape, the group funded in 1976 which won the legal recognition of rape within marriage in 1991 after a 15-year campaign, recently lost its funding.