Detectives hunting for the killer of Milly Dowler have matched DNA discovered after a robbery at a church in a village near Sunderland with a sample found on an item of the schoolgirl's clothing, it was revealed yesterday.Although police stress they are keeping an open mind about any link between the man whose DNA was found and Milly's murder, the discovery raises the possibility that she may have been abducted and killed by a man she had met before. On Sunday a team of Surrey officers took samples from 46 men at St Paul's church in Ryhope, Tyne and Wear, after police investigating a robbery at the church discovered a "direct hit" between DNA found on a coffee cup and a piece of clothing removed by detectives from Milly's home in Walton-on-Thames. Police refused to say what the item of clothing was, but said the DNA did not come from blood or semen. "We want to interview this person to get some explanation," a Surrey police spokesman said. "There is nothing to suggest that they are linked to the abduction and murder of Amanda Dowler, but it is a very odd coincidence that we need to find an explanation for. At this time we have no idea how DNA from a man in Sunderland could be found on her clothes or how significant this development could prove to be."Milly, 13, disappeared while walking home from school in Walton-on-Thames on March 21 last year. Her remains, but none of the clothes she was wearing, were discovered in Yately Heath Woods in Hampshire on September 20. Yesterday Surrey police said that after she disappeared a DNA sample from an unidentified male was found on a piece of clothing at her home. The sample failed to match any DNA on the national database, but on October 31 detectives investigating a break-in at the church in Ryhope found a DNA sample from saliva on a cup. When the sample, which police said did not match the men responsible for the theft from the church, was fed into the database just before Christmas it threw up a direct hit with the DNA discovered in the Milly investigation. "We would appeal to anyone who is associated with St Paul's church and who may have a connection with Walton-on-Thames for any reason to come forward because it may be their DNA," the spokesman said. He added that there could be a perfectly innocent explanation for the DNA link, such as someone else owning the item of clothing and returning it to a store or giving it to a jumble sale. David Meakin, vicar of St Paul's, said yesterday he had provided police with a list of all adult male worshippers and men with links to his church. Mr Meakin, who was one of 46 men who gave samples over the weekend, said everyone was more than happy to help. "It was an awful lot to take in, to be asked to come to church and to be told what had happened and how the link had been made," he said. "The reaction of everyone was surprise and shock, and some people were literally shaking. But in spite of that, everyone was eager to help police as best we could. "It's just such a freaky link that should drag us into this and I would love it to get to the point where there was some sort of answer." The police spokesman said that if the testing on people associated with the church failed to provide a match with the DNA found on Amanda's clothing, officers may carry out further tests in the Sunderland area.