Attempts by the former professional footballer, Ched Evans, to have his rape conviction quashed are to be fast-tracked through the watchdog that examines possible miscarriages of justice.The revelation that the Criminal Cases Review Commission is to make his case a priority is likely to see the ex-Sheffield United striker – who was released from prison on Friday after serving half of a five-year sentence for raping a 19-year-old woman – engulfed in fresh controversy.It would normally take around 18 months for the commission, which has a staff of 90, to examine a claim of miscarriage of justice. Instead, the commission has taken the unusual decision to examine Evans’s case within weeks.“After an initial review of the case, we decided that we would need to conduct further detailed investigations to establish what merit there may or may not be in the submissions made to us,” the spokesman said.“Initially, we expected there to be a significant wait before that investigation would begin because Mr Evans’s imminent release meant that his case would be behind those of other CCRC applicants who remain in custody.”However, he said that, after a request from Evans’s legal team to prioritise the case, “in line with our published policy on prioritisation, and in relation to the facts of the case and the issues raised in Mr Evans’s application to us … we now expect our substantive investigation to begin within the next few weeks.”The news is likely to trouble rape survivor support groups. “We’re concerned that survivors’ voices and feelings [should] not be lost or overlooked in the furore surrounding one high-profile rapist’s release,” Rape Crisis England and Wales said on its website. Campaigners at Everyday Victim Blaming (EVB) said in a statement, also issued before it emerged that Evans’s case was being fast-tracked, that “rehabilitation requires remorse, taking responsibility for the crime committed and clear evidence that the prisoner is undertaking steps to atone”. The commission’s website provides examples of cases that can be prioritised, for example, if an applicant is old or evidence is perishable.But it is unclear why the commission judges Evans’s case is suitable for prioritisation. One explanation may be that the clock is ticking on his career and a clear decision over the possibility of an appeal would help bring a high-profile and emotive case to a conclusion.Until then, Evans appears to be in limbo. The Professional Footballers’ Association has said he should be allowed to resume his career but the former sports minister, Richard Caborn, has said he must show remorse if he is to return to the game. United, for whom Evans scored 35 goals in his last season, denied reports that it had offered him a two-year contract worth £500,000.Evans, 27, has fiercely protested his innocence, insisting that he had consensual sex with the victim at a hotel in Rhyl, north-east Wales, in May 2011. Evans’s friend, Clayton McDonald, who was also accused of raping the woman, who had consumed a large amount of alcohol, was acquitted. The judge told Evans that his victim had been “in no condition to have sexual intercourse”.Evans’s girlfriend, Natasha Massey, and her father, the multimillionaire Karl Massey, are spearheading the campaign to have his conviction overturned. Mr Massey has hired a private detective, a leading appeals barrister and offered a reward for information.In July, Evans’s lawyers submitted fresh evidence to the CCRC. “We have uncovered a number of issues that the jury at Ched’s trial didn’t hear,” said Russ Whitfield, the private detective hired by Massey. Massey said: “I’m lucky enough to be able to afford a proper legal team. But I am not a fool. At the end of the day I stand by him, not his morality, because he was 100% wrongly convicted.”The commission spokesman said the decision to prioritise the case should not be viewed as confirmation that Evans had strong grounds for an appeal.He added: “The decision to prioritise the case simply brings forward the starting point of the investigations to decide whether or not there may be grounds for us to refer the case to the court of appeal. It does not in any way represent a judgment by the commission as to the merits of the case or its chances of being referred.”Meanwhile, TV presenter and Sheffield United patron Charlie Webster has said she will quit her role with the club if it re-signs Evans.Webster, who said in an interview this year that she was sexually assaulted as a teenager, told BBC Radio 5 Live: “You will have young people cheering him on when he scores a goal. Not under my name, under my club or community.”