Two down, one to go. After six weeks in which he went from being a publicity hound to being a headline recluse John Reid was back on the top of the news bulletins last night after unveiling the results of his hastily compiled blueprint to "rebalance" the British system of justice.As critics were quick to point out, spin to the effect that Tony Blair and his hard man are dropping "soft sentences" looks like another pointless surrender to the insatiable agenda of the tabloids. Reid is smarter than that and he has a good case to make, but the omens are not encouraging.All this is happening too quickly inside a department in the throes of sweeping structural changes which Mr Reid announced on Wednesday. His third reform, a shakeup of immigration service practices, comes next week, though the final shape of the package is still unresolved. That includes plans, leaked at the weekend, now denied, for an amnesty for many of the illegal workers who (so supportive lobbyists claim) contribute an estimated net £2bn a year to the economy.Nervousness at this breakneck pace can only be enhanced by a reading of yesterday's Commons statement. The home secretary's plans to restore "public confidence" in sentencing policy reads like a legislative version of the dismay he voiced when the paedophile Craig Sweeney got his tariff cut from 18 years in jail to five, thanks to a complicated series of calculations which already reflect excessive interference with judges' discretions. They also underline laws passed as recently as 2003 as part of Labour's habit of governing by legislation. Charles Clarke, David Blunkett and Jack Straw, Labour predecessors whose achievements Mr Reid has belatedly started to praise, will be less happy with the Home Office shakeup.Tough talk and a promise of 8,000 more prison places (Gordon Brown has yet to sign the bill for them) may provide Mr Reid with the necessary political cover to be more creative. Yesterday he said he wanted to see fewer vulnerable women, mentally ill and foreign prisoners clogging up the system."This isn't about being tougher or softer, it's about being fairer and smarter," he explained. We shall have to wait and see. Much of what the home secretary promises is fraught with practical difficulty. That need not deter him, any more than he should stop reminding the judiciary that they must balance rights of individual suspects against wider collective rights.But to succeed Mr Reid must carry sceptical public opinion, redtop and cerebral strands, as well as the Whitehall machine that is expected to deliver his policies. Civil service unions and the policy-making elite, having to cope with changing work habits and the need for greater responsiveness, are understandably defensive as their own patchy performance is exposed by this week's O'Donnell capability reviews. Which department came out worst? The Home Office.