One of the five men accused of the murder of PC Sharon Beshenivsky during a bungled armed robbery at a travel agency admitted yesterday he had fired the fatal shot but said he did not intend to do it.The 38-year-old policewoman was killed and PC Teresa Milburn was seriously injured when they were shot outside a Universal Express travel agency in Bradford on November 18 last year.Yusuf Abdillh Jamma, 20, from Birmingham, denies murder. He told the jury at Newcastle crown court that everything happened in a "split second" following the robbery. He blamed his drinking vodka or the "adrenalin rush" he had felt that day on the fact that he had thought everything "was a blur". He told the jury he did not know he had shot the two officers but admitted he "must have" pulled the trigger three times. He admitted robbery and two firearms offences.Yesterday Muzzaker Imtiaz Shah, 25, of no fixed address, was cleared of attempting to murder PC Milburn, who managed to stagger down the road before collapsing and issuing a code zero alert to summon help. Shah has already pleaded guilty to the murder of Beshenivsky.The trial judge, Mr Justice Andrew Smith, told the jury that Shah had no case to answer over the attempted murder of PC Milburn, and directed them to return a not guilty verdict on this charge.He said: "As you know, last week I considered a number of matters. One of them was whether the case against Shah on the attempted murder of PC Milburn should continue in the light of evidence presented by the prosecution. Mr Shah had pleaded guilty to all the other charges, including the murder charge."The decision that I reached was that the count of the attempted murder charge can not properly be allowed to continue. Therefore, I'm going to direct you to return a not guilty verdict on that count."Giving evidence later in the day Jamma admitted the gun that killed Beshenivsky was discharged while in his possession. Peter Griffiths, defending Jamma, asked if he accepted that when the gun was discharged, fatally injuring the officer, it had been in his possession. He replied: "Yes."Jamma told the court that the three robbers inside the travel agents' shop were his brother Mustaf, who is still on the run, Shah, and himself. He said they all began to panic when two community wardens, whom they thought were police officers, approached the locked door of the premises."I just remember hearing me pulling the trigger, sort of thing," he said. "It wasn't a loud bang. It wasn't as loud as the bang we heard inside. It was sort of muzzled."Mr Griffiths asked if he had intentionally discharged the gun. "No, I didn't," he replied. Asked if he knew if the gun was real and loaded, he replied: "No, I didn't."He said: "I recall nothing at all from that point on. I carried on running away." He said he did not recall a second or third discharge of the gun.Earlier in the trial PC Milburn wept in the witness box as she recalled her colleague's head flopping to the side before Beshenivsky collapsed in a heap in front of her. She told the court she recalled seeing an Asian man and a black man in the doorway of the premises, with the Asian man pointing a gun towards them. She said: "I could see his forearm and his arm from his elbow and his hand extended to 90 degrees pointing to where Sharon was stood. I saw in his hand he had a gun. It was the Asian male that had the gun."The three other defendants, Raza ul-Haq Aslam, 25, from Kentish Town, north London, Faisal Razzaq, 25, and his 26-year-old brother Hassan, from Forest Gate, east London, all deny murder.The trial continues.