Winifred Delaney pulls a crumpled birth certificate out from inside her bra. It belonged to her son, Johnny, killed eight days ago in what she believes was an unprovoked attack. She points to his date of birth - June 12 1987. Thursday would have been his 16th birthday.The Delaneys are travelling people, living on a caravan site next to Liverpool's docks. They have come to the conclusion, based on their own experiences, that he was killed for just one thing: being a Gypsy. Johnny Delaney was allegedly beaten to death in the middle of a playing field in Ellesmere Port, a town across the Mersey river where he had gone to visit friends. When a local man came to try to resuscitate him, a Ribena bottle and a packet of crisps were found lying by his side; spicy flavour Monster Munch, his favourite. Twice it seemed the attempts at mouth-to-mouth resuscitation might have succeeded, but then Johnny squeezed the man's hand and quietly died. Two boys, aged 15 and 16, have been charged with his murder, three other children have been released without charge. Cheshire police say they cannot comment on whether they are investigating if the attack was racially motivated. Sitting on the sofas built around the window of Mrs Delaney's static caravan, family members and other site dwellers find their deep mourning is cut with anger that a boy so young could be killed. Looking at the picture of the red-haired teenager that has been jammed in the mirror above her, one of the aunts says: "We can't think why anybody would attack him, except because he was a traveller. No matter how much we have, we are still dirty Gypsy bastards. No matter how good you can be to people, they still treat us the same way." One of Johnny's best friends, a non-traveller called John Mannion, explains: "He used to hate being called a Gypsy. It used to break his heart. At the end of the day everybody is the same." Another family member says: "People pick on us because of where we come from. As soon as they hear our voice, they say, 'I am sorry, I am not serving you,' in a pub or in a chippy. They don't want to know you. It's just like being a racist against a black person. You can't blame everyone for what someone else has done. It's all true hatred. But if you cut one another you will bleed and we all bleed the same stuff. It's not Johnny's fault that he was a Gypsy." Johnny's brother, Michael, 17, shared a bed with him in a trailing caravan. He pats the bedcovers and says he will miss him. "We were always laughing and joking. He would tell funny jokes before he went to sleep. He used to say, 'What do you call a dog with no legs?' He would say, 'Call him what you like, he won't come to you.'" Michael could be Johnny's double, skinny, red hair, a bit quiet. He has had his fair share of hassle because of his roots - followed in shops because staff think he is going to steal, being shouted at in the street. "They can hear the travelling voice. One time we were at a fairground on the bumper cars when this gang of boys came at us and one of them had a knife. One fella hit me a punch and said 'you Gypsy this and that'. For some reason, they just don't like travellers. But if people are broken down on the side of the road we would pull over and help them start their car or give them a lift home."  Dog stories  Johnny Delaney was born in Derby, where the family lived in a house rather than a caravan. But after about six or seven years, they tired of not being around other travellers and moved "back to our own people" and on to the Miler, a caravan site in Wrexham, north Wales. There were 25 to 30 caravans and, along with the other children there, Johnny went to school. He even produced a book, called Dog Stories, with tales about and drawings and photographs of the travellers' dogs. His family has since received a card from one of the teachers at the school offering "our sincere condolences to you all". The Delaneys stayed on the Miler for four years, but when Winnie Delaney's parents moved off to Liverpool they followed. They arrived on the Oil Street site, at the city's docks, in December 2001. When he was around 11 or 12, Johnny - one of three boys and four girls - stopped going to school and started working with his dad on the road, helping with the tarmac and the paving. His Aunt Gavin says: "With travelling men, they stop sending them to school at that age. They learn how to work with their fathers and that. It's important for travelling lads to follow in their father's footsteps. The day before he was killed, Johnny was tarmacking with his dad and his uncle in Birkenhead. It's hard work, especially for a little boy of 15." When he wasn't working Johnny's favourite pastime was swimming, though when he lived on the Miler he liked hunting for rabbits. He lived for his four terriers, Ginger, Blackie, Lady and Twister.  Passport  Last year the Delaneys went to Lourdes and Johnny had planned to go too, but he did not have a passport. Although he applied it went missing in the post three times. It turned up the day after he died. On the morning of the killing, Mrs Delaney - known as Cuzzie - said goodbye to Johnny as he sat in the caravan and headed to town to buy him a shirt and a pair of trousers for his Aunt Margaret's birthday party that night. "I just knew something had happened to him that day, I had this terrible feeling," she says. "I kept phoning him and his phone kept ringing with no answer. I was washing my hair when I got a phone call saying he had gone to the Countess of Chester hospital." Like many travellers, the Delaneys are originally from Ireland, and though most have grown up in the UK their accent is a thick Irish brogue mixed with travelling dialect. When they get Johnny's body back from the coroner's office, they plan to take him to Ireland for a proper burial. For now they have to make do with the little shrine that lies across the Mersey, at the playing fields in Ellesmere Port, on the spot where Johnny lay dying. A white plastic picket fence cordons it off and it is filled with flowers, pictures of Christ and the Virgin Mary, candles, teddy bears and mementoes from Ireland. Of the many cards left there, one says: "From a person who is appalled that this could happen." Another: "Sorry from a mum who is disgusted and shocked that this has happened." The family takes a little consolation from this. They may think people don't like Gypsies, but they know there are some who feel for their pain.