 Detectives are hoping for a breakthrough in the disappearance of teenager Alice Gross after finding a bike belonging to a suspect who is a convicted murderer.Police are looking for Arnis Zalkalns, who they believe came across 14-year-old Alice, who was walking by a west London canal, as he rode a mountain bike.Zalkalns (below) was convicted of murdering his wife in 1998 in his native Latvia and moved to Britain after serving a seven-year sentence for that crime.  Arnis Zalkalns, who detectives investigating the disappearance of Alice Gross want to trace.Scotland Yard named the 41-year-old builder as a suspect earlier this week and has warned the public not to approach him.Zalkalns's red Trek mountain bike will be subject to forensic tests which police hope will help them piece together what happened.Scotland Yard would not say where the bike was found or what condition it was in. An alert has been issued to all ports and airports for Zalkalns to be prevented from leaving the UK. CCTV from the day Alice disappeared shows the suspect cycling along Brentford Lock at 4pm, about 15 minutes after Alice walked the same route, heading towards her west London home.Alice was last seen on 28 August. Zalkalns was last seen on 3 September, and since then his bank account has not been accessed.On the day he is believed by police to have come across Alice, Zalkalns was cycling to work at a building site in Isleworth, west London.Police say that family and colleagues have told them Zalkalns was behaving normally in the days before and after Alice's disappearance.His family home in west London has been searched and items removed for further examination. A second west London address is also being searched.Detectives are expected to travel to Latvia to examine material held by police there about Zalkalns and the case that led to his murder conviction. An international letter of request has been sent by Scotland Yard to their Latvian counterparts.Detectives have also taken DNA samples from items connected with the suspect in case they become relevant to their investigation.Police maintain there is no reason to believe Alice has come to harm. The investigation is being led by the Met's homicide command.In a statement, the Met said: "As with all live investigations there is information that the police have that they cannot and should not make public."As such we will not be providing a running commentary on the specifics of our investigation."Detectives need to carefully balance the release of information as the investigation progresses against not damaging what may ultimately become evidence and placed before a jury."Keith Vaz, chairman of the home affairs committee, called for new measures to stop criminals entering Britain: "It is very concerning that people convicted of serious crimes are able to cross borders without the country they are entering being alerted," he said. "The UK needs an updated warnings index or a new mechanism, similar to those used in the US, which would flag up whether a person has a conviction as they are attempting to cross the UK border. This is something that specifically affects those who enter from the EU."Police say Zalkalns is white, 1.78m (5ft 10in) tall, of stocky build with dark brown hair, usually worn in a ponytail.Alice is 1.5m (5ft 2in) tall, and visibly thin after having suffered anorexia. Police want to trace her white iPhone, which is yet to be recovered.Anyone with information on Alice is asked to contact the investigation team on 020 8358 0100, or call Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111. A reward of £20,000 is on offer.