This week I watched London, my childhood home, burn from my apartment in Cairo. The sense among friends here was initially one of nervous anticipation. We'd seen Sanaa, Wisconsin, Madrid, Kampala, Athens, Hama – was London lining up with the world's revolutionary cities?Though there are vast differences between the situations in London and Cairo, there are also key systemic similarities: the spark of police brutality against a backdrop of ongoing police harassment, vast inequalities between rich and poor, the privatisation of basic state services, the inaccessibility of education. These conditions hit Egypt like a national shock, as the state was packaged off and sold over the last two decades. In England it has happened slower, and less savagely, but it has happened.Nevertheless, as much as idealistic young revolutionaries here would like to say that the seeds of revolution have sprouted in London, it is clearly not quite the same.In Egypt the revolution was populist and universalist. People were called down from their houses to join the marches. Everyone was invited, because the government had made life miserable for everyone. It was, as it always is, worse for the working classes, but the whole country was suffering. So when people lined up on the streets it wasn't along class lines, it was Egypt v the state.In the UK, the riots seem specifically within the realm of the disenfranchised, of the poorest. People are lining up along class and race lines, because in Britain it's class and colour more than anything else that are used to enforce the status quo.In Egypt, the revolution's violence was, by and large, focused on police stations and the ruling party's headquarters. Hosni Mubarak's regime had built its power on the security organisations – there are 325,000 riot policemen in the country and more than 1 million employees of the state's various security apparatuses. From petty street corruption, to blackmail, to torture and murder, Egypt's police were known for it all. So when the balance of power shifted to the people, it was the police that felt their full force.In the UK, looting a JD Sports or a Bang & Olufsen might be an attack on the symbols of the system that keep you down, but attacking individual shopkeeper's livelihoods is not the behaviour of a coherent movement.When the police withdrew from Egypt's major cities on 28 January, people were left to weather night after night of co-ordinated attacks by government paramilitaries. People banded together in their neighbourhoods. I stood on my block with my neighbours, with my grandmother's walking-stick as my weapon of choice. We are seeing the same thing now in the UK. And though bravery and community spirit should be applauded, vigilantism is a potent drug if enjoyed for too long.In Egypt a sense of community is ever-present, and it was the existence of strong social bonds that held the country together. In the UK, in the urban centres at least, those bonds do not exist as strongly. I grew up London, but on returning to Cairo would always be struck at how quickly I'd meet and get to know the people living around me.And so it is in the #riotcleanup movement that I see the truest links between Egypt and the UK. In Tahrir, you couldn't drop a cigarette butt without someone diving behind you to pick it up. It didn't take long to learn to stop fouling your own streets. The day after Mubarak fell, the city was filled with youth committees carrying rubbish bags and brooms and paint.Now, watching from afar, it feels as though that same spirit is taking hold in my other home too. Ideals of neighbourliness that have been worn away by decades of growing individualism are being reborn. A sense of common ownership of the streets that has been stripped away by the Tescofication of every high street is being refound. And while David Cameron talks about responsibility, and the government insists on the primacy of individual action, we are seeing people take a collective stand instead: acting as a society.We all have a responsibility to each other. That is the message that is missing from Cameron's tough stance. But it's coming through loud and clear from the #riotcleanup. And if that's a lesson that the country can learn – if people begin to genuinely look past class and colour and look after their neighbourhoods instead, if people can behave like we're actually living together rather than just inhabiting the same space – then there is a great positive to be taken away from this. And the UK can maybe join the list of revolutionary countries trying to re-imagine a fairer future for society.This article was amended on 14 August.