Police chiefs from England and Wales are converging on parliament to warn of a £350m funding shortfall which could put frontline services at risk.Senior members of Britain's police authorities and a chief constables are to hold private meetings with more than 150 MPs and will claim that government edicts are putting the finances of their forces under intolerable pressure. The lobbying initiative coincides with figures from London which suggest that on current projections, the Metropolitan police is facing a funding gap of £98m. A shortfall of that magnitude would be disastrous for the Safer Neighbourhoods scheme, the localised policing initiative that has been endorsed by Tony Blair, home secretary David Blunkett, and the London mayor Ken Livingstone, as well as for the future of crime prevention. Eighty three per cent of police budget spending is staff related, and the officials say forced cutbacks would directly affect the number of officers patrolling and carrying out visible policing that the public and politicians have called for. Lady Henig, who chairs the Association of Police Authorities, said: "Central funding has fallen short of what we need in previous years, but we have been able to make up the difference from the resources we get from council tax. "We can't continue to do this, because the public are getting fed up of rising council tax, and the government are threatening to cap increases. This means that without at least 5.7% funding from the government, cuts in police services will have to be made." Chris Fox, president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, said: "The last thing we want is a reduction in frontline policing, but with 5.7% funding needed and 3% predicted, it is a very real possibility." The officials say the crisis is looming because police authorities will have to find extra cash to meet statutory and policy responsibilities. They must implement the government's police reform agenda, pay rising salaries and fund improvements in forensic, IT and technological developments. They must also pay for a 12% rise in cost of pensions, resulting from mass recruitment in the 1970s. In London, the police authority has warned Mr Livingstone that his Safer Neighbourhoods scheme will have to be cut back unless he can persuade the government to provide more cash. As things stand, the council tax precept (the amount the mayor takes from the boroughs for common services in London) would rise by 9.8% for general policing, and a further 8.9% to fund Safer Neighbourhoods. The MPA member and Liberal Democrat London assembly member Lynne Featherstone said: "The possibility of such a colossal hike in council tax will come as a bitter blow for Londoners. "Unless the chancellor comes forward with extra cash for Mr Livingstone's ambitious spending, then Step Change will be scaled back dramatically, or council taxpayers will face a massive leap in their bills, or Ken Livingstone will face being humiliatingly capped by his own party. "Mr Livingstone must go with begging bowl in hand to get Gordon Brown to stump up the extra £100m needed to fund the changes in policing in the capital. If Safer Neighbourhoods is scaled back because of a lack of cash, Labour could be open to the charge of being soft on crime." Richard Barnes, vice-chair of the MPA and a Conservative member of the London assembly, said: "This scheme was a mayoral promise and a government promise, and it seems to be going pear-shaped. In principle it is a good scheme, but it must be properly managed, and that has not happened from a mayoral point of view." But a source close to the mayor said he believed he would be able to avert a crisis. "We are confident that it will be possible, through discussions with the government and through taking a rigorous approach, to come up with an affordable proposal that would enable us to continue the rollout of Safer Neighbourhoods," the source said.