Plans to merge the police constabularies of four English regions to create one "super" force were unveiled by the home secretary, Charles Clarke, today.The merger of the three existing Yorkshire constabularies and the Humberside force would create the third largest police force in England and Wales, with 12,790 full-time equivalent officers, after the Met and the proposed new merged force in the west Midlands. If all Mr Clarke's proposed amalgamations go ahead, the number of forces in England and Wales will be slashed from 43 to 21. Humberside, North Yorkshire, South Yorkshire and West Yorkshire have until April 7 to make their submissions to Mr Clarke before he makes a final decision. He has the power to force through the changes even if local police bosses oppose the amalgamations. Police forces in the south west - the final area awaiting a merger decision - will hear their fate in May, Mr Clarke said in a written statement to MPs.If all the south west forces are merged - as set out as a possibility by the Home Office last November - there would be just 17 forces in England and Wales. Apart from today's announcement Mr Clarke is also planning the merger of:  Derbyshire, Nottinghamshire, Leicestershire, Lincolnshire and Northamptonshire  Cambridgeshire, Norfolk and Suffolk Bedfordshire, Hertfordshire and Essex Surrey and Sussex Cumbria and Lancashire Cheshire and Merseyside Cleveland, Durham and Northumbria Staffordshire, Warwickshire, West Mercia and West Midlands Dyfed Powys, Gwent, North Wales and South Wales.Greater Manchester, Kent, Hampshire and Thames Valley would remain as "stand-alone" forces. Last year, a report by Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary concluded that smaller forces were ill-equipped to deal with terrorism and serious crime. The Association of Police Authorities (APA) has accused the home secretary of bribing some forces to secure agreement. The APA also estimates the full cost of mergers across England and Wales will be more than £1bn. The proposals for the west Midlands would create the second-largest force in England and Wales after the Met, with 13,855 full-time equivalent officers. Under current plans, the new east Midlands force would be the fourth largest with 9,438.