At the turn of the year it looked as if Northern Ireland's two main parties, the unionist DUP and the republican Sinn Féin, might be inching towards a long-overdue deal on the biggest outstanding issue in the province's public life. At stake was the pressing need to end the standoff between the two parties over policing – the litmus-test issue of so many generations of Ulster confrontations. The goal, supported now by both parties, is to transfer policing and justice powers to the power-sharing assembly as envisaged in the Good Friday agreement a decade ago. Each side now accepts that there must be a deal and is increasingly agreed about its terms, but each is also determined at all costs to be seen as the one that forced the other side to unwillingly accept it. With a UK general election imminent and Northern Ireland assembly elections little more than a year off, neither side can afford to be seen to back down to the other on such a potent issue.A week into 2010, the slow mating game on policing has just become a bit more complicated. Most things in politics are connected in some way, and the two most serious developments in Northern Ireland so far this year are each in different ways deliberately designed to make a policing deal more difficult. Yesterday in County Antrim, a bomb exploded under the car of a Catholic, Irish-speaking, Gaelic-sports-playing Northern Ireland police officer. The atrocity was almost certainly carried out by dissident republicans. It is the latest in a succession of similar attacks on soldiers and police officers during 2009 which led the Independent Monitoring Commission to warn in November that armed attacks were running at their highest level for years. Each of these attacks targets not just a human victim but a political one – Sinn Féin's embrace of power-sharing – as well.Yet the dramatic crisis at the top of the DUP should be seen as a mirror-image challenge against power-sharing on the unionist side. The marital crisis of the party leader Peter Robinson and his high-profile wife Iris is, of course, on one level a purely private matter. Initially, political opponents held off from exploiting their manifest pain. But the timing of the public revelations about Mrs Robinson's sexual, psychological and business dealings is highly political. The Robinsons were forced to go public because BBC Northern Ireland was about to broadcast all the key allegations in its Spotlight documentary this week. The charges against Mrs Robinson are grave. It is claimed that she used her public position as a councillor, assembly member and MP to raise money from property developers for her lover, asked for some of the money for herself and then failed to declare any of it in any of her multiple public roles, as required by law. Mr Robinson is himself also accused of breaking the ministerial code by not upholding the public interest and reporting the abuse when he eventually learned about it.Balancing on the Northern Ireland political tightrope has suddenly become even more difficult than it was a week ago. But the issues must all be faced, not shirked. Mrs Robinson has big public questions to answer. Mr Robinson, though he hit back against his accusers yesterday, is answerable to the public too, and should not be held to a lesser test than, for example, Scottish first ministers have been. Clearly there is a serious risk that the pragmatic Mr Robinson's increasingly untenable position may gift control of the DUP to rejectionist hardliners who will have no qualms about refusing to make a deal on policing for many months, if at all. That risk must be understood. But Mr Robinson is not bigger than either the law or the political process. In the end, Northern Ireland and its people have a vast amount to gain from the devolution of powers over policing and justice. That prize ought to be big enough and robust enough to withstand even the possible loss of a tough and talented but now tarnished and tragic first minister.