Stuart Hazell, the man accused of murdering the missing schoolgirl Tia Sharp is to appear in court .Hazell, 37, will appear via videolink at Camberwell Green magistrates' court charged with the murder of 12-year-old Tia, who was missing for a week before her body was discovered in her grandmother's house in New Addington, south-east London, last Friday.Tensions in the community of New Addington are running high as the investigation into the murder continues.Hazell was charged in the early hours of Sunday morning with the murder of the 12-year-old, who was last seen on Friday 3 August at the house Hazell shared with her grandmother, Christine Sharp, 46.Sharp, who was also arrested on suspicion of murder, has been released on police bail. She has not been charged.Natalie Sharp, 30, Tia's mother, and the girl's biological father, Steven Carter, visited the rapidly expanding shrine on Sunday. The child's mother left an orchid, a teddy bear, and a card that read: "Our baby girl, we love you very much, always will. Sorry baby that this should have happened. I wish I was there to protect you. We know you're safe now and you are home with us everywhere we go."Paul Meehan, 39, a neighbour, was arrested on suspicion of aiding an offender and has also been released on police bail. He has not been charged.No formal identification of the body found at 20 The Lindens, on the New Addington estate near Croydon, south-east London, has been made but Scotland Yard said the victim was named in the murder charge as Tia Sharp.The postmortem investigation, which was halted Saturday evening, was expected to resume on Sunday to provide more details of how the child died. It was likely to continue some time in the coming week, Scotland Yard said, adding that the decision on when to restart would be left to the pathologist.More than 80 officers were involved in the search for Tia after her mother reported her missing on 3 August. But it took four searches of her grandmother's home before officers found her.Scotland Yard has admitted that due to human error a specialist search team did not discover the body in the early hours of last Sunday morning when they examined the house; the search included the location where Tia was later discovered, which is understood to be the loft.It was only when another full forensic examination was carried out on Friday afternoon that the body was found, and the hunt for Hazell began. He was arrested at 8.25pm in Merton, after he was spotted by several members of the public.Scotland Yard has publicly admitting its failings over the search of Christine Sharp's home. Commander Neil Basu apologised to Natalie Sharp for the length of time it took to find her daughter's body. He said the force was doing a "review and examination" of its search processes to ensure such errors were not repeated. Over the weekend Basu gave more details of the three failed searches over the last week.Basu said: "It is important that we explain more about the circumstances of the searches. Four scene examinations were conducted of the property. The first followed immediately from the missing person report that was received on Friday 3 August. An initial visit was made to assess the situation and examine the property. This visit was not regarded or viewed as a full search of the property."The second visit was a full search of the property with the consent of the occupiers. This was [on] 5 August over a period of two hours. All parts of the premises were searched including the location where a body was discovered, five days later, on Friday 10 August. An early review has been conducted and it is now clear that human error delayed the discovery of the body within the house."The Met said on Sunday it had not referred the inquiry to the Independent Police Complaints Commission. It is understood the IPCC has decided not to hold informal talks with the Met about the failures identified during the searches, and that the Met search team was led by a trained police search adviser.Hundreds of floral tributes, teddy bears and cards have been left outside the New Addington property where Tia stayed at weekends and during school holidays with her grandmother.Janette Dixon, 52, who left a teddy bear at the memorial, said: "It's heartbreaking. I have got four grandchildren of my own and the idea that something like this could happen is just devastating. The whole community was out searching for her, all day and everyday, but she was in that house all the time. It is unbelievable."Collette O'Brien said she felt guilty because the community had failed to find Tia. Laying two bunches of white flowers, she said: "I wanted to bring my daughters to pay our respects. It is hard to put into words. We all tried to find her but it appears she was in that house all the time. It is just heartbreaking. I feel this awful sense of guilt that I couldn't have done more."