Several years ago, in a small, close-knit village – somewhere in Surrey, I should imagine – a bicycle was stolen. One minute it was leaning against the fence, probably outside a post office that is also (funnily enough) no longer there. As incidents go, it was unprecedented. Things like this did not happen here. It was undoubtedly the work of out-of-towners, fuelled by alcopops and quite possibly crack. Word got around, as it does in sleepy backwaters. Residents scanned the local paper for signs of community decay, and when they failed to deliver anything more lurid than cricket scores and pleas for the safe return of lost cats, they turned to the nationals. Therein they were treated to sordid tales of shootings and knifings and postcode gangs, and naturally they imagined the end of the world.Members of the public are essentially an ungrateful bunch. While the Home Office have proclaimed yearly drops in overall crime since 1997, they are increasingly alarmed to find that the civilian populace is becoming more and more dissatisfied with the police. How can this be? Doesn't the British Crime Survey – with its curious insistance that nobody under the age of 16 ever has their pockets turned out by a burlier school-chum – paint a reassuring picture of a society pulling back from the brink of lawlessness? How dare they be so misinformed? The reasons for this state of affairs have been debated every which way in recent months, and I don't propose to delve too deeply into that particular can of worms. What really should be of concern to us, collectively as a society, is what the government propose to do about it. Short of giving every family their own private police officer (or two if you happen to be Karen Matthews), how can they possibly put a smile back on their paranoid faces? The Home Office response is to take a leaf out of Marks & Spencer's book; it's all about customer satisfaction and suddenly, every other performance figure must play second fiddle.It would be cynical to suggest that this is merely a ruse to soften up the electorate on a vote-clinching platform such as criminal justice, so I won't. After all, the public is policed by consent, so why shouldn't they get what they want? If the Tories had ever bothered to ask the question, they would have found that locking up burglars actually comes a poor second to more minor complaints such as nuisance motorcycles and graffiti. These are the things that generate the bulk of calls to the police, so targeting them addresses the needs of the many far more effectively than ploughing scarce resources into blitzing serious street crime. Robberies are serious, but of immediate concern only to a minority of unlucky victims. Gaggles of surly youths, spitting and smoking outside off-licences, affect everyone. In recent years, New Labour have enacted policies that have exacerbated the problem. The National Crime Recording Standard for example, introduced in 2002, required the police to formally record all crime that was brought to their attention, whereas previously they enjoyed a certain amount of discretion. Envisaged primarily as a statistics-gathering tool, it understandably led to an increase in recorded crime, but more importantly, it resulted in a rise in undetected crime. This sudden downward lurch in detections ran counter to police culture and meant that forces would go to extraordinary lengths to "solve" matters reported to them. This often meant ignoring the wishes of a complainant, so while the victim of a crime might have just wanted the suspect to be given a "talking to", the police felt obliged to arrest and charge them in order to gain the detection. This frequently made matters worse, and created a very real danger that victims would have been discouraged from reporting crime in future. In effect, police administration had taken precedence over customer satisfaction.In many ways, giving the public exactly what they want is essential to gaining their trust and confidence. The most frequent complaint is that the public report matters to the police only to never hear from again. The drive towards customer satisfaction could also be immeasurably improved by teaching officers a few effective interpersonal tricks, and in that sense they could learn a lot from the customer service desk at M&S. But it would be dangerous to suggest that the police should kow-tow to the public at all costs. As any officer can tell you, the public is not always right, in fact they are frequently wrong. They often have to be advised that there is nothing that the police can do, which rarely leaves a positive impression. They sometimes need to be advised that their problems are entirely of their own creation. In certain exceptional cases, the complainant may need to be arrested. For this reason, it can only be hoped that the Home Office won't be too zealous in its campaign to get the public to fall back in love with their bobbies. Sometimes they have to tell people things they don't want to hear.