Cynical prison officers will tell you: "Everybody in prison is innocent." But while it is true that many prisoners, particularly those serving long sentences for serious crimes, protest their innocence, few sustain that position for very long. Most buckle down after a year or two, accept their guilt, and get on with the task of coming to terms with their crime and serving their time. Those who continue to "fight their case" have to be prepared for years of the most intense frustration and mental anguish, without ever knowing when, or even, if it will ever come to an end.And if such a person was finally cleared by the court of appeal and happened to express a measure of bitterness towards the police, the system and British justice, who would blame them? Who could? It would be perfectly understandable to anyone on the outside, after all. The longer a victim of a miscarriage of justice had to spend in jail, the more bitter most people would expect that person to be. Which makes Stephen Downing's obvious lack of bitterness after enduring 27 years of wrongful imprisonment all the more remarkable. I listened to Stephen as he was being interviewed on the Today programme yesterday morning and was struck by how dignified he remained in spite of the interviewer's gentle but determined probing. He was not angry at the police: "It was a different police force. Most of those involved in my case are now dead. All that's in the past now. We have to move on." No matter how the interviewer tried, Stephen clearly had no wish to express any resentment or apportion any blame. Neither did he wish to discuss the issue of compensation - only doing so briefly and courteously in response to the interviewer's persistence: "All I would really like is a nice car and a comfortable place to live." It was at this point that it occurred to me that his conduct, given the circumstances, was almost statesmanlike. Having lived on the landings in the same prison as Stephen for a while, however, his demeanour on the radio should have come as no surprise. In the outside world he seems to conduct himself no differently to how he conducted himself in jail: with unerring dignity and self-respect. When I came to prison, Stephen had already served more than 10 years, but it was another 10 years before I heard his name mentioned, and several more before I actually met him. A friend of Stephen's asked me to pass on his regards when he found out I was being transferred to the jail that Stephen was in. Within days of my arrival I made enquiries and learned that Stephen was one of the best-known prisoners in the place. This was not because of anything to do with his case, however - nothing to do with any protestations of innocence. It was because Stephen was the longest-serving "listener" in the prison. (Listeners are prisoners trained by the Samaritans to support fellow inmates in times of crisis.) Eventually Stephen became the listener coordinator - a full-time post that meant he was on call 24 hours a day for those in distress. This was a position of the utmost trust and responsibility, requiring a person who possessed compassion and patience in abundance. How ironic, then, that it should go to a man who, in theory, should have had the most difficulty in coping with his predicament. I spoke to Stephen often during the time that we were in the same prison. I could not claim to know him well - but well enough to find it hard, if not impossible, to believe that he could ever have had anything to do with the crime for which he served 27 years. I could not say exactly why that was, though perhaps it was partly because of his consistent selflessness and the fact that he seemed to be encased in a protective aura of self-belief. So he is not bitter. Neither is he broken. If anything the experience has been so profound that it has added a unique depth to Stephen's character. But just because he has appeared so calm, well adjusted and forgiving since his release on bail last year - and more so after the formal quashing of his conviction this week - nobody should be fooled into thinking that maybe he did not suffer greatly during his incarceration. I know the dark places where Stephen spent those 27 years - and so does Gerry Conlon of the Guildford Four, who said when he was released in October 1989 after serving 15 years: "If there is a hell, it is being in prison and knowing you are innocent." This is something worth thinking about the next time we see or hear Stephen Downing and note his graciousness.