In Nottingham prisons, 26 Iraqi Kurds are awaiting trial. A few are charged with murder, all of them with affray, arising from a brawl in the city that got out of control. All of them face long sentences if found guilty. But many cannot find barristers to represent them at their trials, nor even at forthcoming preliminary hearings.This is not for want of trying. Their solicitors have made hundreds of phone calls to barristers' chambers, and had meetings with several barristers in a desperate attempt to get them involved. Digby Johnson, a solicitor at the Nottingham firm The Digby Partnership, who represents some of the Kurds, sums up the result: "The bar has been utterly obstructive." No one knows what lies ahead for the 26. They could face trial without representation, or their trial dates - spread out over October, January and March - could be delayed for months until they all find counsel to act for them. Their case is just one of many in which barristers across England and Wales are refusing to act. As a result, some of the most serious criminal cases have all but stopped in their tracks. The criminal bar, for the first time ever, is on strike. Barristers argue that rates of pay under a new contract scheme for what are called "very high cost criminal cases" (VHCCC) - ie, lasting at least five weeks and with predicted costs of more than £150,000 per defence team - are ridiculously low. They claim that their pay has been slashed by half, and all but a few are refusing to take on these "contract" cases.The Department for Constitutional Affairs (DCA), which introduced the new scheme on April 1, cannot see what all the fuss is about. It claims that the scheme will produce earnings before expenses of £80,000 a year for junior barristers and £240,000 a year for QCs. The DCA has, though, under pressure from the criminal bar and clearly shaken by the strength of the strike, launched a review of the contract scheme. Its conclusions are promised by May 28. The DCA concession has not pacified barristers, who say they will continue striking until satisfied that they will be adequately paid. Their claim is that they would earn approximately 50% less than they used to before the contracts came in on April 1. But we only have their word for this. Before that date there were no fixed rates of pay. Instead clerks totted up a bill for how much they thought their barristers deserved by applying three factors: number of hours of work, complexity of the case, and the barrister's seniority. The bill was then put before a judge who decided whether it was "fair and reasonable remuneration". One barrister described it as "more of an art than a science". The new contract arrangements were first mooted in a government consultation paper in 1999, which noted that around 40% of legal aid spending in the crown court went on just 1% of cases. It quoted a panel of law lords who had remarked on the "ratchet effect" in the system: a high fee allowed in one case was then used as a precedent for the next. "There is public concern about the cost of legal aid," they commented, "and in particular about the rate at which counsel are being remunerated out of public funds." Under the new arrangement, barristers are paid fixed rates depending on the category of the case. Cases of significant public interest, such as the Soham murder case and the largest Serious Fraud Office trials are rated categories one and two. In these, the highest a QC earns is £180 an hour for preparation and £600 a day for trial. For the lowest paid junior barrister, the fees are £70 an hour and £330 a day respectively. QC rates for categories three and four (large murders and drug conspiracies, and some fraud) are £110 an hour (preparation) and £430 a day (trial), with maximum junior rates at £50 an hour and £230 a day. Out of this, they have to pay income tax, VAT, personal expenses, and make contributions of around 20% of their income for the upkeep of their chambers. This, according to barristers, gives the lowest-paid counsel doing the country's most complex murder case a take-home pay of about £15 an hour. They also object to rules in their contracts which require them to get prior authority for any work done, or risk not being paid - a stipulation which they say fails to recognise the fluid demands of preparing a criminal case. But for Johnson, who has struggled to get representation for his Kurdish clients, barristers are simply putting self-interest ahead of the interests of those who need their services. He blames the strike on "the movers and shakers" at the bar putting pressure on the junior members. Also, he claims, juniors are more than adequately remunerated since they can earn, in addition to their daily trial rate, a possible extra £700 a week preparing for other cases. He was able eventually to find barristers willing to act for his clients. But they are being tried with a number of other Kurdish defendants who are still without counsel, despite the best efforts of Nelsons, another law firm in the case, which has unsuccessfully attempted to instruct barristers in London, Nottingham, Manchester and Birmingham. The Kurds' case is just a snapshot of a much larger picture. Every VHCCC since April 1 that has got to the stage of requiring barristers - whether for advice or to attend preparatory hearings - has run into trouble. The Criminal Bar Association says there are around 15 so far, although the number will keep growing. Trouble is brewing even on cases not yet designated as VHCCCs. Stephen Kamlish QC, lead counsel for Kenneth Regan, who has recently been charged with the high-profile murders of millionaire businessman Amarjit Chohan, his wife Nancy, their sons and Mrs Chohan's mother has already told the Old Bailey that he will refuse to continue acting in the case if the Legal Services Commission decides, as it is expected to later this month, that it will be a contracted one. Judges are faced with awkward choices. Should they try to push ahead without proper representation for defendants, a clear breach of the Human Rights Act? Should they put the cases on hold until after the publication of the DCA's review? One option is simply to adjourn cases until counsel can be found. But this can be tricky. The custody limit - the time a defendant is allowed to be kept in custody pending trial - is 164 days from the first magistrates' court appearance. The prosecution can seek to extend the time limit but their arguments have to be very strong. Simply claiming the defendant's release on bail could put the public at risk is often not enough. Nor is the fact that a defendant is not represented. In one case, lawyers acting for two teenagers have requested an adjournment until they can find QCs willing to represent their clients. The two are among eight defendants, all in their teens, charged with conspiracy to murder. The adjournment is opposed not only by the prosecution but by lawyers for the other defendants. One of them, Kim Hollis QC, said: "I object to it because I have a young client, a girl of good character, who at the end of January gave birth in Holloway prison's mother and baby unit. The rights of the child are important here. A young defendant should be tried as soon as possible, particularly as they have been in custody since October." How the case will proceed is uncertain. Two leading QCs, Ben Emmerson and Courtenay Griffiths, have stepped in on behalf of the two teenagers without QCs. They have not agreed to represent them at trial, but have offered to act for free at a pre-trial hearing on May 14. The bar's chairman, Stephen Irwin QC, recently wrote to all heads of chambers and members of the criminal bar urging them to consider acting free of charge on an "ad hoc basis", pending the outcome of the government's review. It seems unlikely that barristers will take cases to trial for nothing. "To do this would defeat the object of the strike," says one. Withholding their services also puts more pressure on the constitutional affairs secretary, Lord Falconer, to come up with a solution by the end of May - and save the criminal justice system from seizing up.