Isn't it astonishing that a London taxi driver was able to get away with raping and sexually assaulting women for so long?That's what some reports have seemed to imply after the conviction of John Worboys, 51, a licensed cabbie who has been found guilty of assaults on 12 women. In fact, I'd say there's nothing remotely astonishing about Worboys' criminal career, which is inevitable in a society that persistently refuses to detect and punish rape. The police are said to be bracing themselves for an avalanche of complaints from other women who've been assaulted by Worboys – 71 have come forward so far – and that's also what I'd expect when victims finally see an opportunity of getting the justice they've been denied for so long.Just about everyone knows that very few rape complaints result in a conviction in this country: around 6%, compared with 34% of criminal cases in general. But there is a reluctance to confront what this means in practical terms, even though it's well-known that some types of criminals – burglars, fraudsters, rapists – are almost always serial offenders. That's why it's necessary to spell it out: each time a man gets away with raping or sexually assaulting a woman, his confidence increases and he's likely to do it again. In a society where only around one in 20 rapes reported to the police results in a conviction, an awful lot of dangerous men (like Worboys) are getting the message that they can attack women with impunity.The Soham murderer, Ian Huntley, was accused of three rapes, indecent assault and having under-age sex, but was never taken to court, leaving him free to kill two schoolgirls. In the Worboys case, 14 women complained that they'd been assaulted or had an unsettling experience in a black cab since 2002, but police failed to spot a pattern even though the cabbie used very similar methods on his victims. They actually arrested him in the summer of 2007, but he was released after detectives believed his story rather than that of his victim. Worboys went on to attack another 29 women before he was finally arrested and charged in February last year, and the Independent Police Complaints Commission has begun an inquiry into why the Metropolitan Police let him go in 2007.No matter how dreadful this case is, however, it simply reinforces what most women in this country already know. We inhabit a weird, inverted world where the popular press highlights a tiny number of false accusations of rape, creating the impression that innocent men live in fear of being dragged to court and having their lives ruined. The truth, as the Worboys case reminds us, is that there are few things easier in this country than sexually assaulting a woman and getting away with it.Yesterday, one of his victims, Carrie Symonds, waived her right to anonymity and said something very important. She hated the way Worboys was being portrayed as a weirdo when he was actually "very, very, very dangerous". He isn't the only one, and other men will go on attacking women until the criminal justice system and the popular press stop accepting offenders' excuses and start believing their victims.