Charles Clarke has been clinging on to his career by the fingertips since the moment he admitted, on Wednesday night, that over a thousand foreign criminals had been released into the community without being considered, as they should have been, for deportation. Other home secretaries might have been forced out immediately. But Mr Clarke hung on, as he did again last night when he revealed that five of those released criminals had been reconvicted for a range of offences, some of them possibly very serious.His on-screen defiance yesterday was characteristic of a politician who does not like losing a battle. Mr Clarke is not the type to stage a tearful exchange of letters. But that pugnacious approach cannot hide the reality that his grip on office is now very weak indeed and on the brink of being unjustifiable. His decision to fight on is a challenge to public tolerance, to his own party and to a political culture that expects ministerial responsibility to lead to resignations. In truth, Mr Clarke's continuation in office has turned into a gamble over the nature and number of offences committed by former prisoners. He could not offer full details yesterday in what was an interim statement, but he must accept that by waiting until investigations are complete every additional report has become a threat to his position.The biggest gamble, though, is the one being taken by the prime minister. By accepting that Mr Clarke is the man to put things back together - even if only until a reshuffle - Tony Blair is risking one of his biggest and earliest achievements, Labour's reputation as a party that can cut crime and protect the public. This is among the most fundamental tasks of government and the terrible risk for the government is that Mr Clarke will become the embodiment of failure in voters' minds. By then a new minister may be in place, but the long-term cost to the government could be huge.That does not mean Mr Clarke had to walk last night. But he must understand that his decision not to resign commits the government to the demeaning spectacle of a home secretary with packing-cases at the ready, waiting upon daily bulletins from the police, as his staff record a running total of the numbers who have reoffended and the gravity of their offences. This can only be sustained for so long before the polls and the Westminster hothouse pick him apart. Mr Clarke promises things will improve. They had better begin to do so quickly. Seeing the job through is one thing. Foolish defiance is quite another.