The father of Dinah McNicol yesterday paid an emotional visit to the house in Margate where the missing teenager's body is thought to have been buried for 16 years. Essex police said that they believe that the second body discovered at 50 Irvine Drive, recovered on Friday from under a patio, is that of the 18-year-old student, who was last seen while hitchhiking home from a music festival in August 1991.The remains of 15-year-old Vicky Hamilton, who had disappeared six months earlier, were found last Monday, also buried in the back garden of the house. Peter Tobin, 61, who was living in the house in 1991, was charged last week with the younger girl's murder.Speaking outside the property, Ian McNicol told reporters: "At least they have found her remains and I can speak for the whole family that we can now put her to rest and grieve in our own time. That is what we have really wanted for 16 years." McNicol, 68, a former jazz musician, thanked the officers involved in the search, saying "they have worked so well. They found her. I'll now go and cry on my own - not in front of you," he said.Three police dogs trained in identifying body remains and blood traces joined the search of the small terrace house yesterday, as detectives said they had almost finished excavating the ground level of the property, and had moved on to upper floors. An Essex police spokeswoman said the front garden was being excavated by forensic archaeologists "to ensure completeness of the investigation". Such was the state of decomposition of the body assumed to be McNicol's that formal identification could take several days, she added. Police believe that Tobin, who is in custody, may be responsible for the deaths of other women, and are conducting a nationwide exercise, codenamed Operation Anagram, asking other forces to review unsolved cases which they believe might be linked to him.But Steve Watts, assistant chief constable of Hampshire, who is leading the national operation, said yesterday there were no immediate plans to search other premises in which Tobin had once lived.Properties in Brighton, Glasgow, Hampshire and West Lothian have been identified as former addresses. The last, a terrace house in Bathgate, is close to the spot where Vicky Hamilton was last seen in February 1991. It was searched in July shortly before Tobin was first charged in connection with her disappearance.