Colin Duffy, a prominent republican and former IRA prisoner, is one of three men being questioned over the murder of two British soldiers in Northern Ireland.Police arrested Duffy, 41, yesterday at his home on a private housing estate in Lurgan, Co Armagh. During the arrest and search operation, police cars and jeeps were attacked by youths hurling bricks, bottles and stones. The other two men were arrested in the Bellaghy area of south Derry yesterday morning, a PSNI spokeswoman confirmed. Police also arrested a 30-year-old woman and a 37-year-old man last night in the Craigavon area in connection with the murder of PC Stephen Carroll.Three men, including a 17-year-old and a former Sinn Féin councillor, were already in custody in connection with the murder of Carroll in Craigavon.Security remains tight throughout Northern Ireland and particularly around Greater Belfast this weekend as the Police Service of Northern Ireland seeks to foil a feared Real IRA bomb plot. Last week security sources warned that the Real IRA had smuggled an explosive device into Northern Ireland from the Republic. Mobile checkpoints manned by armed police have been set up on several major routes into the city.Politicians at the Northern Ireland assembly also received advice this weekend to step up their personal security. About a dozen assembly members were told to be vigilant and try to vary their routines after fears that dissident republicans may turn to political targets.In an interview with the Observer today, the father figure of hardline republicanism, Ruairi O'Brádaigh, gives a chilling warning that Catholics who join the police in the province or pass on information about the latest terrorist upsurge are guilty of treachery and putting themselves in "harm's way".With Sinn Féin encouraging its support base to co-operate in the two murder investigations, the president of the rival Republican Sinn Féin has urged Northern Ireland's nationalists not to work for the security forces.O'Brádaigh said: "I think that's a very unwise thing to urge people to do because that's obviously going to put them in harm's way, which is a very grave responsibility to undertake. My advice would be 'Don't join up' and I think it's wrong to encourage young people to join the British forces."Although he is not involved with any of the armed dissident groups, those opposed to Sinn Féin's peace strategy, especially those in the Continuity IRA, look to O'Bradáigh for ideological guidance. He also advised nationalists not to co-operate in any way with the police ."The record stands. People were shot dead for doing that [informing] and, just as I would say the Provos should not be calling on people to join the British forces, I would also say they should not call on people to give information to the British occupation regime in Ireland. Because that is treachery and they [the Provisionals] are the very ones who called it treachery and carried out certain consequences for those unfortunates that informed. It's still wrong to inform and give information about those who are resisting British occupation. It is still betrayal. It is still treachery," he said.The PSNI chief constable, Hugh Orde, said today that there were about 300 dissident terrorists trying to wreck the peace process. He said the number was small in a population of 1.75m but described them as "very dangerous, like any cornered animal in its death throes".Orde said in the last 18 months dissident republicans had tried on at least 25 occasions to kill officers on and off duty. Writing in the News of the World, Orde said the only support for violent dissidents came from "a few nutters and idiots". "We have identified many of them," he wrote. "We are working flat out with the security services and other specialists to disrupt and arrest them and lock them up for the rest of their natural lives."Cengiz Azimkar and Mark Quinsey, the soldiers killed last weekend, will be buried this week. Today, an ecumenical prayer service was held at the entrance to the barracks where they were first wounded, then shot on the ground by Real IRA gunmen.Tensions also remained high in Craigavon, Co Armagh, close to the spot were Carroll was shot dead last Monday night. Supporters of the dissidents vandalised a makeshift floral shrine to the murdered police officer. It had been laid on the ground where he fell after being struck by a single bullet.Northern Ireland's political leaders, who united last week against the dissident republican campaign, will receive the support of Barack Obama this week. The US president will host a St Patrick's Day celebration in the White House for first minister Peter Robinson, deputy first minister Martin McGuinness and the leaders of the five main parties at Stormont. Robinson and McGuinness will invite the president to make a flying visit to Belfast during this trip to the UK for next month's G20 summit.