Two recent criminal cases of shocking violence which resulted in starkly different sentences highlight an important question of sentencing policy: are deterrent sentences ever justified?The first was the high-profile case of Edward Woollard, the 18-year-old who threw a fire extinguisher from the roof of Millbank Tower during a student protest, narrowly missing police on the ground below. As the sentencing judge, Geoffrey Rivlin QC, pointed out, a custodial sentence was merited because Woollard was "exceedingly fortunate" that his actions did not kill or seriously injure someone. Woollard, who pleaded guilty to violent disorder, was sentenced to two years and eight months' imprisonment. He was only 18, with no previous convictions.The second case was that of Anton Ward, aged 24, and Javir Hull, 18, who both pleaded guilty to violent disorder. They were part of what the tabloids called "a gang of feral youths who chased a man like a pack of wild animals". They kicked him repeatedly and stamped on his head and only stopped when a courageous female passerby intervened. Ward was sentenced to 27 months' imprisonment and Hull to 18 months' detention in a young offenders' institution.In the first case Woollard was punished on the basis that he "could have" seriously injured someone, whereas in the second case they actually did hurt someone and set out to do so deliberately. What explains the disparity of sentence?The answer is not disjointed sentencing policy. The new Sentencing Council, is an independent advisory body consisting of the Lord Chief Justice, senior court of appeal judges, the director of public prosecutions, leading criminologists and probation officers, which publishes national sentencing guidelines on all manner of offences – though there is not yet a guideline on public order offences.The principles by which the appropriate sentence is determined are clear. It must be tailored to the particular circumstances of the case. The most important consideration is the "seriousness" of the offence. The guidelines are very prescriptive, dividing each individual offence into differing levels of seriousness and setting out a range of appropriate penalties, depending upon a number of defined aggravating and mitigating factors. Once the seriousness is determined, the judge must then reduce the appropriate sentence by up to one third, where an offender has pleaded guilty at an early stage. Further reductions are available for the youth of the offender, his lack of previous convictions and any other personal mitigation.So if sentencing is now a much more scientific process, what explains the disparity in the two cases? The answer is that Woollard's case had a much higher media profile and the sentencing judge took the opportunity to pass "a deterrent sentence". As Rivlin said: "The courts have a duty to provide the community with such protection from violence as they can, and this means sending out a very clear message to anyone minded to behave in this way that an offence of this seriousness will not be tolerated ... If ever a case calls for a deterrent sentence, this is it."Yet if the principles of sentencing require that the punishment fit the particular circumstances of the offence and the offender, can it ever be fair or right to increase the appropriate sentence for that individual in order to "make an example" and "send out a very clear message"? By section 142(1)(b) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003, deterrence is only a legitimate purpose of a sentence if it serves to reduce crime.Are people actually deterred by such sentences? Experience suggests not. The classic example is that of the drug mule. Of course a society wishes to deter drug trafficking by passing significant prison sentences to anyone involved. But many drug mules are single mothers from developing countries, who are pressed into it to pay off a debt to the local drug baron. To the drugs trade, they are expendable people. Passing a sentence of 10 years on such a person is unlikely to deter Mr Big from sending another mule.And so to Woollard. A foolish, reckless young kid – he had never even been to London before without his parents. He got swept along with the mob mentality and committed an act of sheer stupidity. Horrified by his own conduct, he promptly handed himself in to the police. To prison he had to go, but surely 18 months would have been sufficient for someone who is never likely to reoffend? His was an act of thoughtlessness. Will his example prevent other acts of recklessness and stupidity by other foolish kids caught up in the moment? Will it cause them to pause for thought? One suspects not.