Malcolm Gladwell calls it the “law of the few”: a small number of people can make a huge impact on the world. The law of the few certainly springs to mind when we look at the effect on society of those individuals who meet the criteria for antisocial personality disorder (ASPD). They number about 1% of men and 0.2% of women, but between them they’re thought to be responsible for up to a quarter of violent incidents causing injury to others.The hallmark of ASPD, according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM), is “a pervasive pattern of disregard for and violation of the rights of others”. And because it can be so damaging – both for the individual and the people around them – the case for combatting ASPD seems a no-brainer.So how do we go about it? Well, we can attempt to tackle the problem before it becomes entrenched – and that means during childhood. Although ASPD is by definition an adult condition, it is often preceded by what is known as conduct disorder. The DSM defines conduct disorder as “a repetitive and persistent pattern of behaviour in which the basic rights of others or major age-appropriate societal norms or rules are violated”. What this tends to mean in practice is aggression, vandalism, lying, theft and serious transgressions such as truancy or running away from home.Around 2% of children and adolescents are thought to meet the criteria for a diagnosis of conduct disorder. Boys are more susceptible than girls, though some experts have suggested that the criteria show a gender bias. By focusing on physical acts, the argument runs, we risk underestimating girls’ propensity for what the psychologist Nicki Crick calls “relational aggression”, for example “threatening to end a friendship unless a peer complies with a request, using social exclusion as a retaliatory behaviour, and spreading false rumours to encourage peers to reject a classmate”.Many parents may feel that “conduct disorder” is a normal part of growing up and indeed most kids will outgrow this kind of bad behaviour. However, there exists a small minority for whom things don’t change – or at least not for the better. These are individuals who display what Terrie Moffat has called the “childhood-onset life-course persistent type” of conduct problems. And they are at risk of a host of unhappy outcomes including poor educational achievement, becoming an antisocial adult, criminality, substance abuse, depression and other mental health conditions (including ASPD), and poorer physical health.What causes behavioural problems? Genes play a part: heritability has been estimated at around 50% for conduct disorder. (This doesn’t mean that genes cause 50% of behaviour problems, but rather that 50% of the differences in levels of conduct disorder across the population are likely to be genetic in origin.) At least equally important, however, are environmental factors. Maltreatment, poverty, parental conflict and parental alcoholism are all linked to conduct disorder in children, as may be parenting style (either overly strict or, to a lesser extent, excessively laissez-faire).We can’t do anything about the biological roots of a child’s conduct disorder, but what if we were to mitigate the social and cultural influences that are so often implicated? What effect might this kind of intervention have on an individual’s antisocial behaviour? The US Fast Track Prevention Program provides the most reliable answer to date, published recently in the American Journal of Psychiatry. After screening 9,000 six-year-olds from disadvantaged areas of Durham in North Carolina, Nashville, Tennessee, rural Pennsylvania, and Seattle, researchers selected around 900 kids whose parents and teachers had reported violent or disruptive behaviour. (Almost 70% of these children were male.) Half of the group received the intervention and half did not (the control group). This was achieved by randomly allocating their schools to each condition. The intervention was strikingly comprehensive and unusually long-running, comprising multiple strands implemented over more than 10 years and varying according to the children’s age. The measures included boosting a child’s social, educational, and decision-making abilities through one-to-one coaching; teaching them how to form friendships; training parents to interact more positively with their children; offering advice on the transition from one school to another; providing parents and children with information on adolescent development, alcohol and drugs; discussing vocational and summer employment opportunities; and helping young people plan their working lives after school. Did all this effort make a difference? In order to answer that question, the project followed the children’s progress right up to the age of 25 (the intervention began, remember, when the kids were just six). Arrest records were examined for 92% of the group, and 81% were psychiatrically assessed. That analysis showed that 69% of the children in the control group had developed an adult psychiatric disorder. For those who’d received treatment, the figure was 59%. The researchers calculated that in order for one child to benefit psychiatrically from the intervention, eight children must be treated (known in epidemiology as the “number needed to treat”). This is not breathtakingly effective, but significant nonetheless.As well as being less prone to mental health problems, members of the intervention group were a third less likely to have a criminal conviction for violence or drug-related crime. They were happier, less prone to risky sexual behaviour, and less likely to spank their own children. On the other hand, the programme seemed to have no impact on rates of property or public crime, nor did it improve levels of education or employment.Fast Track isn’t alone: there are many other parenting programmes (though none spanning as many years) and meta-analyses have shown that they can make a real difference in preventing conduct problems in children. They cost money, of course: for Fast Track it was $58,000 for each child. But even if we discount the emotional and social benefits, the economic case is persuasive: the cost of just one case of chronic criminality is estimated at $3-4m.What is certain is that more research is needed on how best to intervene. In the UK, that means reversing a trend that has seen children’s mental health services so depleted that the Health Select Committee recently warned of “serious and deeply ingrained problems”. But the costs to individual children, their families, and society as a whole surely mean this is an issue we cannot afford to ignore.Follow @ProfDFreeman and @JasonFreeman100 on Twitter