The director of public prosecutions and Britain's leading policeman have expressed concern at the way the system of "out of court" penalties is being used to deal with violent criminals and burglars.Keir Starmer QC said that while there was a a proper place for trivial offences to be dealt with outside the courts, the system – which includes cautions and fixed penalty notices – had developed in an "incoherent way" and needed to be looked at again."There is now a case to be made for a review," Starmer said in an interview in the Times.His remarks echoed those of Sir Paul Stephenson, the Metropolitan police commissioner, who said yesterday that cautions should not be used for "theft and thuggery". The police chief's comments, in a Sunday Times interview, came as official figures showed a surge in the number of offenders issued with multiple cautions.Stephenson said attempts to reduce pressure on courts and overcrowded prisons meant police were expected to assume a criminal justice role. "The outcome of that has been an almost uncontrollable increase in cautions, and the introduction of the fixed penalty ticket, which in the public's mind equates to a parking ticket, which should not be [the case] with theft and thuggery."It's put the police in the correctional business, instead of what we should be in, the law and order business, preventing and detecting crime."Sir Paul said he wanted more criminals, particularly violent offenders, to be brought before magistrates.He added: "We've ended up cautioning far too many people. We've all come across examples – I'm personally aware of a recent case where a thug hit a smaller lad, from behind, without provocation, shifting his teeth. The shock felt by the victim and a number of people present was palpable. What was the outcome? (The assailant) received a police caution. I cannot imagine anyone would see this as justice."He continued: "Nationally the figures show that only 38% of citizens have confidence in the criminal justice system... If a huge thug comes and hits someone in the face for no reason and that person then gets off with a caution the following day because he's expressed remorse when he's sobered up, it's fundamentally not right. It's not right in the public's mind. It's not right in my mind... that someone (like that) is going to get away with what is basically a parking ticket."He also criticised the policy of allowing prisoners out of jail before their minimum terms were completed.Latest figures show that a total of 2.2 million people were cautioned between 2000 and 2008, including more than 550,000 who were given repeat cautions. Of those, 51,874 had been cautioned four times and 104,915 on three occasions.