The man who bludgeoned the French student Amélie Delagrange to death could have followed her in a vehicle before driving off to dump her possessions within minutes of her murder, police said yesterday.As divers continued to trawl an 800-metre stretch of the Thames, detectives studied hundreds of hours of CCTV footage, attempting to pinpoint a vehicle or the seven-mile route from the scene of the murder at Twickenham Green in south-west London to Walton-on-Thames, Surrey. It is believed that computer records of the signal emitted from Ms Delagrange's mobile phone led detectives to a car park in Walton overlooking the Thames, where the 22-year-old's keys, purse and Sony Discman were found. Detective chief superintendent Andy Murphy said: "He could have been lurking around or possibly driving around in the area. He could have been driving around looking for a victim, spotted Amélie and parked up on the green." Mr Murphy suggested the killer could have fled the scene of the attack at Twickenham Green in a car or van. If so, the murderer could have reached Walton-on-Thames before the dying Ms Delagrange was discovered at 10.26pm last Thursday. "It is quite possible that a vehicle was used and certainly if Amélie was murdered around 10pm somebody could have arrived here within 15 or 20 minutes," said Mr Murphy, standing at the scene of the search by the river. This is where we are focusing our efforts and this is where we expect to get our next set of information." He added: "From the outset, CCTV footage has been reviewed from every possible venue: garages, shops and restaurants. There are hundreds and hundreds of hours of footage still to be viewed." Police are still searching for a murder weapon, which could have been a hammer, bar, pole or brick, and Ms Delagrange's mustard-coloured handbag and Sony Ericsson mobile phone. Mr Murphy said the killer would have good local knowledge of Twickenham and Walton-on-Thames but it was too early to say if he lived in the area. A search and forensic science tests have also been conducted in a derelict bungalow near Walton town centre after a tip-off. Milly Dowler, the 13-year-old girl murdered in March 2002, lived in Walton-on-Thames, but police have ruled out any link between her murder and that of Ms Delagrange. However, Mr Murphy confirmed that in the wake of the death of Ms Delagrange police had spoken again to Dawn Brunton, an accounts clerk who suffered a fractured skull when she was brutally assaulted in an alleyway at Hatton Cross, west London, in November last year. Ms Brunton, 36, came forward after recognising similarities between the attack on her and the murder of Ms Delagrange, who died from a blow or blows to the back of her head on a cricket pitch after taking a short-cut across the green. The murder follows a pattern of assaults in south-west London on pedestrians, who have all been blonde, taken by surprise from behind at night and beaten over the head with a blunt weapon. In January 2003, a 17-year-old girl was badly concussed after being hit over the head in Strawberry Hill, a month before Marsha McDonnell, 19, was beaten to death with a hammer while walking back to her home in Hampton. Five people have so far been arrested and released by detectives investigating the Marsha McDonnell murder. One of those arrested, a 16-year-old boy, was detained by a local council under the Mental Health Act last year and is not a suspect in the Delagrange murder or a fifth similar attack on Edel Harbison, 34, an accountant viciously beaten with a blunt weapon in Twickenham in April this year. But detectives say there are significant differences between the assaults and the murder of Ms Delagrange and the other incidents are not necessarily linked.