Jermaine Pennant has today been jailed for three months for drink driving while banned from the road. The 22-year-old Arsenal midfielder, currently on loan at Birmingham City, was also disqualified from driving for three years. Pennant was arrested in January after he was spotted in a car park in Aylesbury driving a Mercedes with a lamp-post dragging beneath it.He pleaded guilty at last month's hearing to charges of drink driving, driving while disqualified and using a vehicle without insurance.Sentencing him today at Aylesbury Magistrates' Court, chairman of magistrates John Jakobi told him there was no reasonable excuse for the journey. The former England Under-21 star had been banned from driving for 16 months in February last year after being seen travelling in the wrong lane in Paddington, west London. That period was later cut after he completed a special course. After magistrates had deliberated for about an hour, Mr Jakobi told Pennant only a custodial sentence was justified. The midfielder's defence team said they planned to appeal. Prosecutor Mary Clouston told the court police were called to an accident at 6.05am and saw the Mercedes pulling into a swimming pool car park. The car was dragging a lamp-post and when he got out, Pennant's eyes were glazed, his speech slurred and he smelled of alcohol, the court heard. Pennant, wearing a dark suit and white shirt and tie in court, initially gave a false name because he was scared, the court heard.Ms Clouston said Pennant had spent the evening at the Embassy Bar in London, drinking four glasses of wine. He got back to his Barnet home at about 4.30am and spoke to his girlfriend on the phone, arranging to see her in Bristol since he was not in the Arsenal squad for the match that day. The court heard the Mercedes' satellite navigational system directed him to go to Bristol via Aylesbury. Pennant was trying to work the satellite navigation system when he lost control of the car and crashed into the lamp-post. Defending Pennant, Barry Warburton told the court he had never been in trouble during a difficult childhood in Nottingham. Mr Warburton said he grew up on "one of the worst estates" in the city, the eldest of four children, and brought up the three others after his mother left until he was 15. Pennant had only "intermittent" schooling, the court heard. "When he left school and arrived at Arsenal FC, he had very little reading and writing skills," Mr Warburton said. "They have in fact educated him."He added that Pennant believed he was safe to drive again after his disqualification because his aunt Diana had read a letter from the DVLA to him and told him this was so. Mr Warburton acknowledged Pennant should have checked for himself but did not. The lawyer also told the court Pennant had made only 24 appearances for the Arsenal senior team since arriving at the club and was frustrated at not being able to play. Adding that the star had a low risk of reoffending, he said imprisonment "could completely destroy his career".