The decision to cut and, in the case of two county councils to discontinue entirely, youth services must surely be the most ill-conceived to be imposed by this government. Worse even than those affecting the disabled and the elderly, because this is the future which is being brutalised.Forget about the possibility of crime surges this summer; it's five years' time we should really be worried about, when today's rude boys – and girls – are adults. That's when the trouble will really kick in. They are rude because they have had a child life experience of being undervalued and unattended. Their world has disrespected them, so what else can it expect in return? They have been the victims of attention deficit syndrome, and that is what these cuts are, adult attention deficit big-time.The saddest aspect of it is that effective services are not expensive. I spent eight years leading a street project for a county youth service on a severely disadvantaged estate. There were three of us, doing two evenings a week. We cost under £10,000 a year, 1% of what one serial offender costs from first exclusion to first detention, or as much as Rio or Wayne earn doing up one bootlace.Street work works, because it takes place on their turf, their comfort zone, unlike most clubs which are adult territory and far too often simply a teenage creche for the nice kids. We attend on their terms. We take them very seriously. For most of them, we are the first adults to do so. They have been treated at home like inconveniences, without affection, on a switchback ride of being loved to bits or broken in pieces. They have absolutely no idea of who they are, why they are or where they are going, except too many of them think their journey will be over before they hit 25.Our job is to listen to their stories, set boundaries and to challenge their attitudes. The street is its own powerpoint. Every evening, at shop front, youth shelter, rec ground, wherever, the world and its warts pass by in all their true colours, the paedo, the gay, the blagger, the shagger, the wheeler, the dealer, the alcoholic, all the targets in fact of their prejudices and too often of their rage. The street provides an al fresco teaching space.Our job is to encourage a sense of self-value and purpose. "There's nothing to do round here" is a dishonest but entirely understandable mantra. The reality is that these young people have lost the will, the incentive, initiative or iconography to invent their own entertainment, because they have had a child-lifetime of being told off whenever they have started anything. Street work nurtures initiative, it encourages collaboration. You know how they pick teams on the street? None of the "last one's a loser"; they each take a number and the captains have no idea who they are selecting. That's true sportsmanship.Our job is to show them they have choices, and that those choices have consequences. That means taking responsibility, having the bottle to refuse the criminal invitation, to avoid careless impregnation, to "use" in moderation, to avoid addiction, to respect the victim, to learn from their mistakes.Of the hundreds of young men and women engaged by the project over 16 years, only three have received custodial sentences and teenage pregnancies are way below the national average. So it works. All they need is love and honesty. You can't expect the suits in corridors to understand that; they only deal in blame and shame. It is the overalls at the sharp end who know what's going down, and "going down" is exactly what is happening.If this sort of project was rolled out to a thousand estates throughout the UK, it would cost about the same as Barclays' chief executive Bob Diamond's bonuss. That's a steal in anyone's language. Certainly better than stealing the nation's youth.