A violent attacker, fuelled on strong lager and amphetamines, bludgeoned three generations of one family to death after a woman rejected his sexual advances, a court heard yesterday.David Morris, a former scrap metal dealer, beat Mandy Power, 34, her bed ridden mother, Doris Dawson, and her two children, Katie, 10, and Emily, 8, with a pole, then set fire to their home to cover his tracks, Swansea crown court was told.Having beaten Ms Power so severely that her face and skull were smashed, he then sexually assaulted her.The jury heard how Morris set off towards Ms Power's home in Clydach, on the outskirts of Swansea, in June 1999, having voiced his intention to harm her.He was later traced because as they struggled Ms Power managed to pull off a gold chain he was wearing.The defendant is facing a retrial. His previous murder conviction was quashed on appeal after judges ruled that a conflict of interest had prevented a fair trial."This was not merely a murder, this was a massacre," said Patrick Harrington QC, prosecuting. "Three generations of one family were brutally put to death, we say by the defendant, who exploded into an uncontrollable rage."Mr Harrington said the family were "victims of the most appalling and grotesque violence". He told the court that Morris, 43, of Craig-cefn-parc, near Swansea, was "a violent thug" with a history of violence towards women. "His emotions, just like his temper, were uncontrollable."Morris told police that he had had a sexual relationship with Ms Power. But Mr Harrington said that was highly unlikely because the victim feared him. She had a "settled and loving", highly physical and very intense relationship with Alison Lewis, her partner. It was obvious "she was extremely happy with her lot".Mr Harrington said that it may well have been sexual rejection that led Morris to attack her. Ms Power was a friend of Morris's partner, Mandy Jewell, with whom he had a violent relationship. But the two women finally fell out. "David Morris had never approved of that friendship and resented it. From that time in particular [he] nursed a particularly strong antipathy towards Mandy Power."Mr Harrington said initial police suspicion fell on others, including Ms Lewis. Morris might have escaped detection had he not left behind a vital clue - his gold chain. The fixing mechanism of the chain was already damaged before Morris went to the house, and it came off during the struggle; it was found covered in Ms Powers' blood. Morris was eventually compelled to admit the chain was his."He was seen wearing it by a number of impressive witnesses in a public house a 14-minute walk away from Kelvin Road in the hours leading up to these killings. In a [pub] when he was heard to revile Mandy Power in the clearest terms ... in a public house where, fuelled by drink and drugs, he set off for a murderous spree."Mr Harrington said Emily was killed in her bedroom and Katie on the landing. Mrs Dawson, 80, was beaten as she lay in bed. "Possibly her last sighting in life was seeing her own daughter murdered before her eyes," he said.The case continues.