The Shipman inquiry will have to address the glaring loopholes in the GP system that the trial made startlingly obvious. Shipman - a single-handed GP - stockpiled morphine with which to dispatch his victims, altered medical records and got fellow doctors to co-sign dozens of cremation certificates without difficulty.There will be legislation to sort out these matters. But the government intends the spotlight to shift to the medical profession and its ability - or failure - to police itself. Doctors' traditional self-regulation has been under threat since the scandal at Bristol royal infirmary, in which babies who died during heart surgery might have survived at the hands of better surgeons elsewhere. The Shipman inquiry could be its death knell.   Death and cremation certificates The British Medical Association has homed in on the issues surrounding death certificates and disposal of bodies. It says it has been campaigning for 30 years to get the laws changed. When introduced in the early 19th century, death certificates were for statistical purposes. In the BMA's view there are many problems. The doctor who signs the death certificate is not required to see the body - he must simply have "attended" the patient in their last illness, within the 14 days prior to death. If no doctor has seen the deceased in that time, the coroner will order an inquest. The doctor is not obliged to notify the coroner of a sudden or unexplained death; that is for the registrar to do after the families report the death. More critical to the Shipman murders was the cremation certificate. A second "medical practitioner of five years' standing" must sign to say they are satisfied the first doctor has given the correct cause of death. This is often a formality. The second doctor may see the body but is unlikely to examine it or look at the case notes. It is being argued by the Royal College of General Practitioners that the signature of a specially trained doctor would be a better safeguard.   Monitoring death rates  The death rates among each GP's patients are not collected at present and there would be complications in establishing a way to do it. In some areas with a high elderly population or a couple of hospices, for instance, they would inevitably be higher than in others. But the West Pennine health authority says it would like to see a report from the registrar which would show up a surge in rates in any one GP practice.   Stockpiling drugs  Shipman obtained large quantities of morphine by stealth. He overprescribed for patients in his care with terminal conditions and took back, purportedly for disposal, what was left when the patient died. He would also go to the pharmacy himself to collect morphine for his patients. That could be stopped, say the Royal College of General Practitioners and the West Pennine health authority, who want the patient or a relative only to be allowed to collect a prescription for a controlled drug and for unwanted drugs to be given back to the pharmacist for destruction.   Patient records Shipman was able to alter patient records after killing his victims to make it look as though they had long-standing health problems. Although police found evidence of the tampering on his computer hard disk, they would only be likely to look in the context of a murder inquiry. But there is now computer software available that would flag up any alterations made to records more than 24 hours afterwards.   Single-handed GPs Reforms being brought in by the government should prevent the isolation of single-handed GPs. They will have to meet colleagues from other practices regularly. Concerns over lone GPs have been mostly to do with their performance and a perceived failure among some to keep up to date. This is being addressed by both government and the profession. All GPs will have to undergo regular appraisal. Any thought to be falling below standard will face further assessment and be required to undergo training. If they fail or refuse to come up to scratch, they can be disciplined.   The General Medical Council The GMC, which is the doctors' regulatory and disciplinary body, has been trying to reform itself for several years under the leadership of its president, Sir Donald Irvine, but it is a slow-moving beast. The inquiry will look at the GMC's involvement with Shipman in 1976, after his conviction for dishonestly obtaining drugs and forging NHS prescriptions. After looking at reports from psychiatrists treating Shipman who were convinced he had overcome what was no more than a personal drug problem, the GMC decided to send him a warning but allow him to continue practising as a doctor. The Durham health authority which took him on knew about the conviction. West Pennine, which agreed to let him become a single-handed GP, did not. The GMC argues that it is for the employer to ask for information when it takes on a doctor, and that it is not in a position to know when GPs change jobs. The GMC has been further criticised for taking no action after the police wrote on August 18 1998 to say Shipman was being investigated over the murder of Kathleen Grundy. A letter from the health authority followed on October 1, saying Shipman had been charged with murder on September 7. The GMC did nothing and says it could have done nothing to suspend the GP. Its lawyers advise that it cannot use its emergency powers of suspension once a criminal investigation is under way. The organisation is talking with the department of health about changes in the law.