The husband of a heavily pregnant woman who was seriously injured in a "car bomb" attack in a Kent village has been arrested on suspicion of attempted murder.Nicholas Fabian, 32, a former army bomb expert in the Princess of Wales' Royal Regiment, was being questioned on suspicion over the incident in which Victoria Fabian is believed to have suffered horrendous leg injuries, in Vigo, near Meopham.The couple's two sons Charlie, 10, and Harry, four, were in a nearby car, but escaped unharmed. Army bomb disposal experts examined two cars at the scene of the blast, which occurred on Friday lunchtime. Residents were evacuated from 40 nearby homes.Victoria Fabian, aged in her 30s, was last night understood to be receiving treatment in Darent Valley Hospital, Dartford, and is expected to be transferred to the Royal London Hospital for specialist skin graft treatment.Doctors believe her unborn child, due in three months, is unharmed. Residents described hearing a loud thud, feeling the ground shudder and seeing smoke rising from the communal car park where Victoria Fabian's vehicle was parked.A spokesman for Kent police said the bomb disposal team had been brought in as a "precautionary measure", to check there was no hazard before forensics teams moved in. An emergency shelter was set up at the village hall for people evacuated from their homes.The police cordon had last night been reduced and all but eight houses could be accessed. A stretch of Highview, a road in Vigo, remained sealed off, together with adjoining alleyways. Police forensic examiners were carrying out a detailed investigation of the car, and a thorough examination of the scene.The temporary shelter was manned by staff from Kent county council, Gravesham borough council and voluntary organisations including the Red Cross and the Salvation Army.Kent police said it wanted to thank the community of Vigo for its "patience and support". Nicholas Fabian left the army in 2003, but is thought to have been recently recalled for service in Afghanistan. Witnesses described how he pulled his wife from the blazing wreckage of her car.Onlookers tried to staunch the bleeding from her wounds with T-shirts and towels. Vincent Redman, 17, said: "The explosion was massive. It was so loud – it almost blew my windows out."