Three men have admitted stealing £2m in Britain's biggest credit card fraud. The gang downloaded the credit card details of 8,790 passengers using the Heathrow Express rail link and could have made up to £20m if they had used all the cards. In fact, they cloned 847 of them and used the forgeries across Europe. Some of the forged cards were used to buy cigarettes in Belgium which were then smuggled into Britain and sold at a huge profit. The mastermind of the scheme, Sunil Mahtani, 26, from Watford, Hertfordshire, pleaded guilty at Middlesex Guildhall crown court yesterday to two counts of conspiracy to defraud central clearing banks and other financial institutions between April 29, 1998, and September 12, 2001. Shaidal Rahim and Shahajan Miah, also 26 and from Enfield, north London, pleaded guilty to one of the conspiracy counts. The court heard that Mahtani worked for the company Checkline, which processed Heathrow Express customers' credit card ticket purchases. Using his IT skills, he down loaded details and passed these on to associates. Rahim and Miah used hire cars to tour French and Belgian tobacco stores buying large quantities of cigarettes. "This is the largest credit card fraud investigated to date by any police force in the UK," said Roger Smart, prosecuting. Credit card investigators spotted the fraud and called in Scotland Yard to help catch the gang. Mahtani also admitted charges of making indecent photographs of children and possessing them with intent to distribute. Ali Bajawa, defending Mahtani, said his client had become frustrated that his income and status lagged behind those of his girlfriend, a merchant banker. "Mahtani may have felt a little inferior to her," Mr Bajawa told the court. "It may be that to enhance his sense of esteem, or just out of frustration, a lack of job satisfaction, status and income, he fell prey to temptation. There's no other way to explain what he has done." The case was adjourned until Tuesday when the three defendants are expected to be sentenced. Eight other people have also been charged with conspiracy to defraud.