The memory I will always have of Victoria is of that first time I visited her at home. She opened the door, beamed, and said in her high-pitched, but surprisingly adult, voice: "Hello Lisa, how are you?" We had met the week before, in hospital where she was being treated for scabies. But I was not to know then that, nearly eight years later, I would still see her, still be hearing her words. That "Hello Lisa!" remains so very vivid.I never planned to become a social worker. I grew up in Scunthorpe and, as a teenager, competed in middle-distance and cross-country running. My dream was to win an Olympic gold, but after shin splints put paid to these aspirations, I began a community management degree in Luton, followed by a diploma in social work. As soon as I moved to Luton I found the world of raving, and the running stopped. At a club one night, I met Carl. He was a DJ; I liked his sound. We started talking and really clicked. Soon we were seeing each other. We talked all the time about our future, and even planned to get married on an island in Mauritius. We graduated together and were looking forward to becoming a two-income family, getting a nice house, and leading a comfortable life. We wanted, one day, to start a family. But it wasn't to be.In January 1998 I started work as a social worker in west London. But commuting from Luton was difficult and before the year was out, I secured a job in Haringey. I wanted to make a difference and thought I could do that best in an inner-city area. Looking back, the numbers 1999 are key in my mind: so much happened in those 12 months. Carl and I got a place of our own. And I had been in my new job several months when my manager approached me in the corridor and said she had an interesting case for me.A few days later, Marie-Therese Kouao walked into my office. She was articulate, well dressed, and seemed to know what she wanted, yet she also struck me as a mother in need of support (I would not find out until later that she was, in fact, Victoria's aunt). Over the next three months, I saw Victoria and her family three times - sometimes alone, sometimes with colleagues. Everything appeared to be progressing as it should be. I thought I was doing a good job.After I received a fax from the hospital confirming that the marks on Victoria's body were caused by scabies (and with no diagnosis of non-accidental injury) I treated the case as that of a child in need of housing and a school place. Victoria was living in a studio flat in Tottenham with Kouao and Carl Manning - a family friend, I was told - and a week later I was walking up the path, Victoria greeting me in that memorable way. She was wearing a red jumper with a red kilt (the outfit that would be immortalised in the picture the media commonly uses of her) and was much chattier than she had been in hospital. She was well-groomed and her skin, which had looked dry in hospital, was well moisturised. The flat was nice and modern, with a little pull-out bed in the corner where Victoria slept.We met again, a couple of months later, when Kouao alleged that Manning had sexually abused Victoria. I contacted the police immediately and, after Kouao gave me the number of some friends, I put her and Victoria in a taxi and checked to make sure they were there. I was away on a training course when Kouao returned, retracted the allegations and said Victoria had made it all up. And after that, they disappeared. I made repeated attempts to contact them but couldn't find them. When the file was closed the following February, I put a note in saying there were unresolved issues, but that attempts to make contact with the family had failed. A week later, I was told Victoria had been admitted to hospital. Inside my head I kept a vigil for her.When I heard the news, later that day, that she had died, I managed to stay calm and professional in my office - but as soon as I left I broke down and sobbed. I woke up around 6am the following Monday and, as usual, the first thing I did was put on the TV while I lay in bed. The first item on the news was that Kouao and Manning had been charged with Victoria's murder. At that point, my world ended. I got up, dressed mechanically and phoned my mum. There was a silence on the other end of the phone. Then my mum said: "What does this mean for you, Lisa?" I had no idea. I was walking into the unknown.I went into work and, at first, my colleagues were supportive. I tried not to think too much about what had happened. But every evening I came home and felt a dull, stitch-like pain in my side. I was extremely upset about the murder charges, but I was sure I had done nothing wrong. I had faith that inquiries would prove this to be the case. It wasn't until seven months later, when a report known as a "part eight review" was published, that I realised things weren't going to work out that way.The report placed much of the blame for Victoria's death on me. It was the equivalent of smashing my brain to pieces. I was suspended from my job a week before Manning and Kouao were tried. They were convicted in January 2001. Something moved in my head the day of the verdict and I switched off the outside world, switched off the television, switched off my mobile phone. Carl and I were meant to be going to a friend's birthday party, but I sat in the flat all by myself. I delved into Carl's music boxes and started making tapes. I remember just dancing in the flat with the music on really, really loud. It sounds strange, but music massages my mind.I had expected to be suspended from my job, but what absolutely killed me was being placed on the Protection of Children Act list in 2002. Now I was a child murderer who had become a pervert. If I looked in the mirror, I didn't see Lisa, just a dirty paedophile. In September the same year, I was sacked and referred to the psychiatric service, diagnosed with a 20% loss of faculties. I couldn't remember my past - where I'd come from, what I used to do - and could see only what was in front of me. By 2003, my grief finally began to come out. I was on antidepressants and alcohol and worn out through lack of sleep. My weight fell to five and a half stone. Whenever I left my flat all I could see was red - the colour I associate with Victoria in that kilt and jumper. By now it was clear I was having a breakdown. I spent five weeks in a psychiatric hospital and when I came out I began, tentatively, to get back into the world. I did some voluntary work in a charity shop and then took a job with the Peabody Trust sorting out its library. Using music, I have slowly reconstructed my mind, pieced together memories; individual tracks remind me of times and places in my life before 1999. Toni Braxton's Always is my special song for Victoria. "You'll always be a part of me. . . "Victoria's death and the aftermath remain an open wound. Carl and I broke up the year the verdict came out. We had been having problems, and I can't say whether we would have stayed together. But the stress of the case was our tipping point. That was six years ago, and he was my last boyfriend. Having sat on the sofa where Manning and Kouao had sex while Victoria lay emaciated in the bath so sickened me, I haven't been able to have a sexual relationship since. Meeting someone is a priority, but it is as if I have been in a coma for seven years. I last celebrated my birthday in 1999. I moved into my flat in 2000 but still haven't unpacked my boxes. I feel as if my life is being lived out in a prison cell and each day, when I go to work, it's as if I'm on day release.My career as a social worker is over and while, given the choice, I don't know whether I would have remained in social work, I do believe I should have had that choice. I don't accept that I was negligent in Victoria's case. There were mistakes made collectively by Haringey council, of which I was one individual. I was removed from the POCA list in June 2005 and the judge in the case ruled that there had been no professional misconduct on my part. Yet I was sacked for gross misconduct, and I'm still fighting to get that overturned.I would like to find a partner and have children, but at the moment I don't know if I'll ever be able to do that. I was 30 when Victoria died; I'm 37 now. I know my biological clock is ticking but have no idea what will happen. It causes me enormous pain to think about where my life should be - married with children, earning good money and contented, and where it actually is.I had a miscarriage when I was 22, and sometimes I think I'm just not supposed to be a mother. Perhaps having children of my own - and an independent investigation into what happened - is what I need in order to get my life back. Today my mind is still full of Victoria. She's always there; she never goes away. Every time I leave my flat I'm reminded of her. She almost is my child. I want to fight for the truth for her.· Do you have a story to share? Email it to my.story@theguardian.com