David Bieber was once a happy-go-lucky American teenager, a natural athlete and headmaster's son whose future must have seemed as bright as the palm-lined street in Florida where he grew up.How very far from there the 38-year-old fanatical bodybuilder is today: convicted of murder and sentenced to life in prison at Newcastle crown court for shooting dead traffic policeman Ian Broadhurst last Boxing Day in Leeds.Bieber, who was in the UK working as a bouncer and living in Yorkshire, was a man with a secret. He was using a false identity and was on the run from police in Florida who wanted him in connection with an incident in 1995 in which a hitman was paid £600 to murder a love rival, another bodybuilder.When PC Broadhurst and two other traffic policemen pulled over the stolen BMW Bieber was driving in Leeds last year, the American, who was briefly a US marine, must have panicked that his past was finally going to catch up with him. He pulled out his gun and started shooting.In his youth, Bieber's summers were spent in the swimming pool and his winters playing American football. He set a Florida state record in the 100-yard breaststroke at the age of 13.But as he grew older, everything became eclipsed by his passion for bodybuilding. He would work out every day, bulking up to 18 stone, and compete in tournaments he sometimes won. His father, Frank Bieber, believes that the turning point came when he started abusing steroids in his early 20s. He was soon selling them and his life was slipping towards violence and crime. "That was the beginning of the end," Mr Bieber, a Korean war veteran and retired headmaster, told a newspaper in Fort Myers, Lee County, south-west Florida, where the family are from.Mr Bieber last saw his son in September 1995 and did not know whether he was dead or alive until the news of his arrest emerged in Britain. "He was once a nice, quiet young man. Who thought it would turn out like this? I can't see him shooting to kill. That part leaves me cold."Increased aggression and violent episodes among anabolic steroid users have been documented across the world since the 1970s. A relatively high number of bodybuilders have been involved in murders, such as a former Mr Universe, Bertil Fox, who was convicted in 1998 of killing his girlfriend and her mother.Growing up, Bieber excelled at sports, and universities in Florida and Georgia scouted him for their American football teams but his college career never developed after he left Fort Myers high school in 1984.He joined the marines, where he was trained to use firearms and is remembered as an "average" marksman. He was discharged after about a year for taking unauthorised absence. Bieber's first encounter with the law was in 1990 when two women, Virginia Boies and her daughter April, sought restraining orders against him, saying he had beaten them up.Four years later another woman, Michelle Stanforth, also sought a restraining order after their relationship soured. He had stormed into the medical centre where she worked, attacked her and left, saying "you'll be sorry". Another year on Bieber started a relationship with Danielle Labelle, the former girlfriend of a fellow bodybuilder, German-born Markus Mueller, who was 25 stone. Bieber and Ms Labelle married in February 1995, but the rivalry escalated between Bieber and Mueller, who were also said to be competing to sell steroids.Just days after Bieber and Ms Labelle married, Mueller was shot dead by a hitman. The same hitman, David Snipes, later attacked Ms Stanforth but missed despite firing at her four times.Snipes was caught and sentenced to life in prison but police suspected Bieber paid for the shootings. After five televised appeals on America's Most Wanted there were hundreds of reported sightings of Bieber, but none drew results. In April 1996, Bieber travelled to South Carolina, where he was issued a passport in the name of Nathan Wayne Coleman. He used this to cross the Atlantic, first going to France and then the UK, where he found work as a doorman in Leeds and West Yorkshire. Neighbours described him as sullen and rude.Initially he was given six months' leave to remain in the UK as a tourist, which was then extended every six months until he married an Irish-born girlfriend, Denise Horsley, in 1997, despite still being married to Ms Labelle. They married just 17 days before his tourist visa was due to run out and moved to a cottage near Selby, North Yorkshire. The marriage lasted just a little under a year and Ms Horsley has since remarried. She told police that Bieber was a gambler and fitness fanatic with an interest in martial arts and survival techniques. She said he behaved as though he was always on the run, dying his hair different colours and living out of a suitcase. After killing PC Broadhurst last Boxing Day, Bieber went on the run for six days before being found at a hotel in Gateshead, Tyne and Wear. Police in Leeds contacted the FBI about their American suspect, sending fingerprints and mugshots of "Nathan Coleman". Within hours the FBI had matched the fingerprints with the wanted David Bieber.