The serial killer Harold Shipman was being interviewed yesterday over nine suspicious deaths while he was working as a GP in West Yorkshire at the beginning of his medical career.The inquiry reinforces the fears of the relatives of some of his victims that the former family doctor could have been systematically murdering patients for more than a quarter of a century. Detectives from West Yorkshire police travelled to Frankland prison in Durham, where the bearded and bespectacled killer is serving 15 life sentences, to talk to him about the deaths in the Todmorden area in the 1970s. Shipman worked at the Abraham Ormerod medical centre between 1974 and 1976. Colleagues remembered his dedication, hard work and energy, but he also had an unusually high death rate. Police were investigating all 22 death certificates signed by Shipman. It is the first time Shipman has spoken to detectives since the run-up to his court case last year, when he was convicted of killing 15 women patients from Hyde, Greater Manchester. He has always refused to cooperate with Greater Manchester police, who have been investigating the deaths of hundreds of other patients. Shipman has also turned down requests from the South Manchester coroner, John Pollard, who has held 24 inquests into deaths of former patients. In all but two cases the coroner recorded verdicts of unlawful killing. Three patients from the Todmorden practice died on the same day - January 21 1975. Relatives of Lily Crossley, Robert Lingard and Elizabeth Pearce insist that they died suddenly after bedside visits from Shipman. His modus operandi in all his known murders was to inject his patients with a lethal dose of diamorphine. Most of his victims were elderly women - although some were middle aged and a handful were men. Shipman worked in Todmorden, a former mill town, until forced to leave when he was convicted of illegally possessing the prescription drug pethidine - an analgesic and anaesthetic often used to relieve the pain of childbirth. He was fined by Halifax magistrates and escaped a General Medical Council disciplinary hearing after he was treated for drug addiction. A former GP, now retired, who worked with Shipman in Todmorden described him as a breath of fresh air to the Todmorden practice. Michael Grieve, now 72, said he was very keen and a good technician. "If any extra work came up, you didn't have to ask for a volunteer because Fred - as he was known to colleagues and patients alike - was there two paces ahead of you," he said. Other former colleagues spoke of a sense of disbelief about the alleged murders. Another said: "He didn't bump off everybody he treated, so presumably he did some of them some good." Jane Ashton-Hibbert, who runs a support group for the families, said she would be very surprised if Shipman answered the detectives' questions. Her grandmother, Hilda Hibbert, was unlawfully killed by Shipman in 1996. "I have seen the pain these families have gone through and the hurt because he has not admitted what he has done. It must be particularly bad for people in Todmorden because it happened such a long time ago. "I would love to be wrong, but I would doubt he will ever admit his guilt. He has got all the power, so why would he help any of us?" A public inquiry into the circumstances surrounding the activities of Shipman will begin in Manchester in June, chaired by Dame Janet Smith, a high court judge.