The two defendants in the royal blackmail case were an alleged "Walter Mitty" fantasist who claimed to mix in royal circles, and his alcoholic friend.Ian Strachan allegedly claimed to live a high society lifestyle, buying champagne in nightclubs and working as a stylist and fashion journalist – but he was a university dropout who owed thousands of pounds to royal employee D and lived with his mother. The 31-year-old told the court he flirted with D - said to be a camp "John Inman" character - in order to get information, but denied being gay.He also admitted he had lied to an undercover officer posing as a royal aide, but said he had never made a demand for money for tapes containing the scandalous claims at the centre of the case.Strachan claimed in court to have met the royal, A, on several occasions, saying he had never wished to harm him.Instead, he said he wanted to expose D as a "predatory homosexual" who drugged people in order to have sex with them. While he had no serious convictions, Strachan was investigated in 2004 over an accusation that he had subjected a man to threats via phone and text message.Text messages allegedly included ones reading: "You will end up with a bullet in the back of your head" and "You will end up in the bottom of the river."Strachan failed to turn up for an appearance over the matter at City of London magistrates' court. He was later fined £50 for non-attendance, but the witness in the case decided not to go ahead. Police in Scotland had at one point wanted to speak to Strachan about old allegations of dishonesty, but the investigation was abandoned. He attended Aberdeen Grammar school in the early 1990s, when he was known as Paul Adalsteinsson, and is reportedly the grandson of an Icelandic fisherman who moved to Grimsby at the age of 16. Strachan, who has a younger brother, is thought to have taken his mother's maiden name after his parents split. He claimed to have known other members of the royal family before meeting his co-defendant, Sean McGuigan, and that his grandfather was an architect who met an unnamed royal, known as E, "on many occasions". Strachan said he had "a conversation about horses" with one royal, Z1, and they had also met in a nightclub. A second, Z2 had played sport against him, he said, while he had met a third, Z3, in a club. Strachan said he worked as a stylist and freelance fashion journalist and had been employed by a magazine called Skin as well as a Dubai publication.He said he falsely told people he had a law degree when trying to recover money owed to other stylists he represented when he had in fact abandoned a foundation course in law after a couple of months.Ronald Thwaites QC, defending McGuigan, said he was "someone who fantasises in a compulsive way to the extent that you don't know which bits are true or false". Little is known about McGuigan, who did not give evidence in court. He made contact with A's personal assistant in July last year. He was later in contact with a friend of the royal, who was acting as his intermediary, but always said he was not asking for money.He told the friend, witness C, that he had known D for 15 years and that he was a "very bad person". McGuigan said he cared for A's family and had a photo of himself and A's mother from when he had been a bellboy in London in 1983. The 41-year-old told police he and Strachan had made the tapes in order to catch out D for drugging people to have sex.McGuigan, from Belfast, has a series of criminal convictions, many of them believed to be alcohol-related. On one occasion, he received a five-month prison sentence for smashing up a car. A recovering alcoholic who also had a valium dependency, he has been treated in a rehabilitation clinic. Thwaites said McGuigan had no royal connections, adding: "He may be unwise in his friendships."