Detectives were today hoping to interview Abigail Witchalls - the 26-year-old pregnant woman left paralysed in a knife attack - as she recovered in hospital from injuries that left her paralysed.Police hope that Ms Witchalls will be able to provide crucial information about her attacker. She was stabbed in the neck on Wednesday last week, while pushing her 21-month-old son Joseph in a buggy through the village of Little Bookham in Surrey. A spokeswoman for Surrey police said that doctors at St George's hospital in Tooting, south London, had assessed Ms Witchalls as being in a suitable condition to give a statement to detectives. She can only communicate through blinking and facial expressions as a result of her injuries. Police said she was also able to mouth "yes" or "no" and that they would be recording the interview with both video and audio equipment. When Ms Witchalls was admitted to hospital doctors gave her only a 50% chance of survival. It is not known whether her unborn child has survived the attack. "I am very pleased for Abigail and her family that her condition now appears to be stabilising and that she is able to communicate with them and us. Members of my team are now in the process of taking a statement from Abigail about what happened," said Detective Superintendent Adrian Harper."Apart from her son Joseph, Abigail is the only person who saw her attacker and the information she may be able to give us will be crucial to our investigation. Both Abigail and her family have handled the terrible situation in which they find themselves with enormous dignity and courage and I believe that Abigail will want to give us all the help that she can to find the person who attacked her." Mr Harper said that more than 300 members of the public had contacted the inquiry room providing several leads. "The incident room has been flooded with information, much of it needing to be followed up, and my team has been constantly working through these actions. I would still like anyone who was in the Little Bookham area on Wednesday afternoon and who saw anything suspicious to come forward and contact us," he said. Earlier today a police spokeswoman said that forensic evidence from the scene was being analysed in the hope of finding further clues to the identity of the attacker. A 28-year-old man was questioned for 30 hours over the weekend but was released on bail on Saturday night. A 29-year-old woman arrested with him has been eliminated from the inquiry and released without charge.