A policewoman who was criticised by defence lawyers during the Damilola trial for her methods in interviewing the 14-year-old star prosecution witness today defended her handling of the case.Sergeant Carolyn Crooks conducted 10 hours of videotaped interviews over five weeks with the controversial witness, known only by the code name Bromley, who claimed that she saw the attack which led to Damilola's death. Her evidence was demolished in court and the judge ruled that it was too unreliable to be considered by a jury. He said there had been "inducements" during questioning of Bromley which meant "the danger she was persuaded to tell untruths is very real". But Sgt Crooks, 36, from County Tyrone, Northern Ireland, said today that she had simply done her best with a difficult witness. She also denied defence suggestions that she had insufficient experience to deal with such a high profile case and was a "disgrace to her profession". After joining the police in 1993 and undergoing her two-year training, Sgt Crooks said, she worked interviewing victims of sexual offences and domestic violence. She had interviewed children before and specialised in dealing with victims and witnesses with mental health and learning difficulties. When she was brought in to interview Bromley, who was then 13, the girl had already been through a "memorandum interview". Such interviews arose out of abuse cases, where youngsters could be saved the anguish of reliving their ordeal in court by using a video interview as evidence-in-chief. Home Office guidelines say children should not be interviewed for more than an hour at a time, and should not be prompted in the interviews which are carried out by specially trained child protection officers. More than 30 children in the Damilola case were handled in that way. Bromley was originally given a memorandum interview but then detectives chose to question her further. The further interviews were with Sgt Crooks and one lasted three hours. Sgt Crooks, who was then a PC, was chosen to interview her partly because of strong communication skills. "I know myself that I did the best job that I could and I followed procedures," she said. "I had interviewed children before and I had read the guidelines in relation to memorandum interviews - but this was not a memorandum interview. She was memorandum interviewed, but there were found to be a lot of discrepancies that had to be explored." The judge expressed concern that during the interviews, police had seemed to start from the premise that Bromley was at the scene of Damilola's death, even though she had not said that was the case. But Sgt Crooks said her intention was never to prompt Bromley or "manufacture" a witness, but to "get a truthful account" from her. She also denied that there was pressure on her to get a result because police "didn't want another Stephen Lawrence case". "I felt she wanted to say she was there but she had difficulty. I didn't pressure her, I just helped her by telling her that the truth was the right thing to do. I believe she was there - again and again during the trial she walked back into that court room despite the upsetting time she was having ... I thought she was incredibly brave for doing that," she added. At the time of the interviews, which took place more than a year ago, Sgt Crooks was unaware of school reports which described Bromley as a "liar and attention-seeker". But she said: "The appropriate adult in the interviews was a member of school staff, and she did make me aware of how the school saw this young girl. It wouldn't have changed the way that I dealt with her."At one stage the Old Bailey was shown a video of Bromley singing "I'm in the money" during a break in the interview. The defence suggested she was making up her story for the £50,000 reward money and that she was told by Sgt Crooks that the money was "more guaranteed" if she said she was at the scene rather than just hearing about Damilola's death. But Sgt Crooks said: "Because I know her quite well, when she's under pressure she does say silly things, she's a young kid and she did say afterwards that she was only joking. "One thing that makes me truly believe the money wasn't an issue was that she never brought up the topic of the reward since those interviews ended." Sgt Crooks was also checking on Bromley and her mother when they ran up a £4,000 bill in a week, mostly on telephone calls, at a hotel where they were put up by police. She said: "I wasn't staying at the hotel but I was visiting every day and when I was there she wasn't on the phone. "When I got the bill I nearly fell off my chair. But I didn't think she was trying to get one over on the police. She was a 13-year-old girl who spent her time on the phone." Asked if she had believed the final story given by Bromley in interview would stand up to cross examination, Sgt Crooks said: "I wasn't expecting it to be all roses - like any stroppy 13-year-old, she didn't like it. "But the fact that she got up and walked out was because one of the defence barristers disclosed her father's address in court and she was afraid of the consequences that would have for her family. "I was cross-examined for two days, I found it very overwhelming and exhausting. What it must have been like for a young girl in there for six days I can't begin to imagine."