A teenage Asian girl is believed to have been murdered by a man hired by her parents after they discovered that she had a secret boyfriend who had dedicated a love song to her on the radio.The 19-year-old girl from Bradford, West Yorkshire, was sent to Pakistan 18 months ago, where the police believe she was killed just weeks after the song was broadcast on an Asian radio station.Her case is one of hundreds of reported disappearances, suicides and missing persons to be re-investigated by police forces in an effort to discover the scale of so-called honour crimes and killings in Britain.Scotland Yard is already re-examining 122 murders to see if they fall into the category of honour killing.The Bradford girl's plight was reported at the first national conference on honour crimes, organised by the Crown Prosecution Service. The latest figures show that 12 murders last year were designated honour killings, but agencies fear there are many more offences going undetected.Honour crimes, ranging from emotional and physical violence to imprisonment, rape and murder, are so called because the victims are perceived to have done something which dishonours their family and the wider community.It can be being seen talking to a boy in the street, refusing an arranged marriage, or going to college.The Bradford case typifies the problems faced by the police and prosecutors when trying to investigate honour crimes in many minority communities.The girl had been in regular contact with friends before the love song was played, and it was a girlfriend who reported her missing to Bradford police, who closed the investigation after their repeated attempts to locate her met a wall of silence from the girl's family.Her body has never been found.Another case involved a girl from Newham, east London, who was murdered by relatives two years ago after reporting a rape to the police.The police were unable to find out who was responsible and shortly afterwards the family left Britain.Experts point to the high suicide rate in Asian girls aged 15-25 as evidence that violence against them remains undetected. The police and other agencies believe forced marriage is the greatest pressure exerted on young girls in some communities."I have never seen a case where forced marriage exists without some form of violence, either threatened or actual," said Anne Marie Hutchinson, a family lawyer. More active intervention by social services departments was needed.In a recent case a girl of 14 arrived at Barts Hospital in London with both legs broken. Her family stayed at her bedside throughout her time in hospital.It was only after 10 days that a social worker arrived and it was discovered that the girl had jumped out of a second floor window because she was being forced into a marriage.She was known to the social services department, having reported her fear of violence twice to a schoolteacher. She had also run away, but was returned to her family by the authorities.Hannana Siddiqui, from the women's group Southall Black Sisters, said the crimes were not confined to any one community. They occurred in Asian, Italian, Greek and Middle Eastern communities.But she said the label "honour crime" should not be used to marginalise the issue."We are talking about domestic violence against women and in extreme cases murder: the excuse is honour." 'That is the person you have to marry, they said'Jasvinder Sanghera was 14 when she returned home from school to be shown a photograph of a man by her parents. "That is the person you have to marry," they said. The daughter of Sikh parents who had arrived in Britain from the Punjab in the 50s, Jasvinder was one of eight siblings - seven girls and a boy. Until this moment she had been a happy schoolgirl at a comprehensive in Derby, where she had many friends.Over the coming weeks Jasvinder, now 39, said she was emotionally and physically abused as her family continued to pressurise her into the marriage. "I tried to commit suicide by taking some pills, it was more of a cry for help, I wanted to show how unhappy I was."In the end, to spare herself further violence, she agreed to the marriage. But two weeks before the wedding date she packed a suitcase, tied her sheets together and used them to climb out of her bedroom window in the middle of the night.She never returned. From that moment on her parents refused to speak to her. "You are dead to us," they said.Seven years later Jasvinder received a call from her sister, Robina. "She told me that her husband was abusing her physically. For me it was clear, she had to leave him but she was more concerned about the family and the community and how it would look to them."Eight days later Robina committed suicide by setting herself alight, according to Jasvinder.Jasvinder, who was never reconciled with her family, now runs a refuge for Asian women in Derby and receives 40 calls a week from women suffering violence and threats.Today she says she still receives threats from relatives for the shame she brought upon them by running away.