Thirty-five people were treated for stab wounds during New Year's Eve celebrations in London as the capital's ambulance service reported a "horrifying" spate of knife attacks and a record number of emergency calls.While many senior police officers played down the effect of the change in drinking hours, there were violent incidents across the country as a night of partying extended well into the morning under the revised licensing laws.In Grimsby, police described Saturday night as one of the "worst nights of violence" they had ever seen in the town. By yesterday morning there was only one free cell in Humberside after police handled 650 emergency calls and put 81 people in custody.In London, three men went to hospital after being stabbed near Kingsland high street at 2.20am yesterday. One, aged 22, was in a critical but stable condition with stab wounds to his chest, another 22-year-old was recovering in hospital and a 19-year-old was discharged after treatment.Police called for witnesses in Southampton after a 29-year-old man was found stabbed in the back. He was last night recovering in Southampton general hospital after emergency surgery. In Gloucestershire, a 19-year-old man had surgery after being stabbed in the neck near a pub in Stonehouse, near Stroud. Police arrested a 16-year-old.Three men were arrested in Manchester on suspicion of attempted murder after a man was found with stab wounds following reports of a fight at Shaw Heath. A man in his 40s suffering knife wounds was detained by police in New Mills, Derbyshire, after reports saying he was roaming the streets brandishing knives."We are horrified that there have been so many stabbings on what is an evening of celebration for most people," said Russell Smith, deputy director of operations at the London Ambulance Service. "The majority of calls that we have responded to this evening have been alcohol related ... we have seen a high number of violent incidents reported."Between midnight and 4am, the London Ambulance Service dealt with a record 1,444 calls, up 4% on the same period last year. Normally the service treats an average of nine stabbings on a Saturday night. However, Scotland Yard described New Year's Eve as "a fairly routine Saturday night" in the capital, saying there had been 69 arrests in central London, mainly for alleged public order offences and drunkenness.For the police in Grimsby, Inspector Ed Cook reported an "exceptionally busy" night to BBC Humberside. "We've had officers shot at, bricks thrown at police vans and colleagues being attacked by gangs of drunken youths ... Almost without exception these incidents were caused by people having too much to drink. It's one of the worst nights of violence I have ever seen in this town."Police in Bristol reported "an extremely busy evening" dealing with alcohol related public disorder. "We were stretched to the maximum at times," said Inspector Steve Kendall, of the Avon and Somerset police. "People seemed to be out celebrating for longer than usual."Police forces in Surrey, Greater Manchester, Cheshire, Thames Valley, Lincolnshire, Wiltshire and north Wales reported hectic nights. Lancashire police said they continued to make arrests as late as 6am but claimed it was quieter than on previous New Year's Eves. Devon and Cornwall police arrested 117 people but said the number of incidents they had dealt with was down by 15-20%.