A mother has avoided jail after lying about a Primark security guard taking her baby from her while she was breastfeeding.Caroline Starmer, 28, posted on Facebook that the guard had taken her nine-month-old daughter from her on 13 July at the shop in Humberstone Gate, Leicester.After the shop checked its CCTV and found that no such incident had taken place, Starmer was charged with perverting the course of justice.Sentencing her to eight months in prison, suspended for two years, the judge Simon Hammond told Leicester crown court she had avoided jail “by a whisker”.The judge said: “She has done a gross disservice to the many mothers who are breastfeeding and rely on shops and other public facilities to allow them to breastfeed their babies in privacy and dignity.“By a whisker, you have avoided going to prison today. “This is a very serious case of perverting the course of justice. What the defendant did was carefully planned and orchestrated for financial gain.” The court heard that Starmer visited the Primark store on 13 July with her twins, then aged nine months. She went to the children’s clothing section where she sat and started to breastfeed one baby, paid for her shopping and left the store.The same day, Starmer phoned her husband and said that while she had been feeding, a security guard had told her to stop and “ripped the baby from her breast”. She repeated the allegation on a Facebook group, Free To Feed. The story was then widely reported in the media, and in interviews she claimed a male security guard grabbed the child from her. The story was shared more than 5,000 times on Facebook and featured in news bulletins as far afield as Japan and New Zealand, the prosecutor, Tina Dempster QC, told the court. Breastfeeding is hard, so we should be softer on mothers | Eva Wiseman Speaking at the time, Starmer, of Woodgate, Leicester, said the incident was “horrific”. She wrote on Facebook: “My nine-and-a-half month old daughter started crying, needing a feed and the queues were pretty long, so to save my daughter the upset, and the other customers too, I decided to find a quiet spot out the way of others and feed her discreetly. “Within five minutes of doing so, I was approached by a security guard who asked me to vacate the premises to feed my daughter. “I stood my ground and stated my rights, that I can legally feed where I want. Just for the security officer to physically remove my daughter from my breast and walk down the store with her, saying if I wanted my daughter, then I was to come and get her. “My confidence is shot, and my poor daughter hasn’t been herself all afternoon.” Prosecuting, Dempster said Starmer told officers her motive in making up the story was financial. She said: “A friend of hers asked her to concoct the story to see how much money they could make. “She had not been threatened by this person, but she wanted this person to be her friend. She did not realise it was a criminal offence to sign a false witness statement.” Dempster added that the money from selling the story would have gone to the friend and Starmer felt “ashamed and embarrassed” of her actions. Mitigating, Justine Robinson said: “She had no option but to take the action she did for money that was never going to go to her.” The judge said: “She had several opportunities to bail out and abandon the enterprise, she had no need to put a false story on Facebook or ... to sell her false story or to make a false statement to police. “If she was put under pressure, she could have abandoned the scheme several times, but she did not do so and only admitted her wrongdoing when confronted with the CCTV evidence.” 