The murderer of the twins Claire and Diane Sanderson may have killed one sister and lain in wait for several days to kill the other, police said today.The details emerged as North Yorkshire police finally confirmed they had found "positive links" between the killings of the women and that of the pensioners James and Joan Britton.The murders have prompted the force's largest manhunt, with more than 100 officers involved in the search for Mark Hobson, 34, a former binman wanted in connection with the killings.The bodies of the Sanderson sisters were discovered in Camblesforth, near Selby, on Sunday. On the same day in Strensall, north of York, the Brittons were discovered murdered at their home.Police disclosed the twin sisters had both been found naked. Claire, 27, was discovered wrapped in plastic bin liners. Her sister, found in the same room, had been sexually interfered with, said police. Police also revealed that a hammer had been recovered from Claire's flat which she had shared with Mr Hobson, her boyfriend.Earlier today, Mr Hobson's mother made a public appeal for him to give himself up in a taped message.Sandra Hobson said: "I've been thinking of you since I was last with you. I know things are difficult and you might be thinking about what to do next. "Mark, the best thing you can do is to contact the police. If not the police, then a solicitor, or someone who can help you. "Please slow down and please don't hurt anyone. There are people who can help you. Please do this for yourself and for me and the family."At the third press conference in as many days, police, who yesterday denied the twins had been murdered on separate days, revealed new evidence suggesting they had been. Police said forensic tests showed that Claire had been dead for a number of days before she was discovered. But her sister Diane was seen by several people and spoke to others on the Saturday before she was found dead. Police believe, therefore, that Mr Hobson may have killed Claire at the flat they shared together and then lain in wait for her sister, who arrived several days later. Detective Superintendent Javad Ali, who is leading the two double murder investigations, said: "We believe she was last seen on July 2, but we have got other sightings that we are investigating.""We believe Claire had been dead for a number of days but we don't know how long she had been dead." Mr Hobson, who has not been positively sighted since the killings were discovered, may have visited his mother, who lives just 300 metres from the twins, on Saturday or Sunday morning, detectives said.Det Supt Ali said the car belonging to Diane, believed to be a blue Peugeot 406, had been recovered near the murder scene and subjected to a detailed examination. Despite a nationwide search for Mr Hobson, police admitted that they were no closer to finding him. Officers have already seized CCTV tapes from petrol stations and town centres in the area surrounding the killings. Alerts have gone out to taxi drivers, pubs and off-licences in the area. Mr Hobson was frequently the worse for drink, according to neighbours. Police have been inundated by calls from the public, leading to some 300 lines of inquiry.Det Supt Ali said: "Can I thank all those people who have contacted us and urge the general public to remain vigilant." He also made a direct appeal to the criminal fraternity for help in finding Mr Hobson. Forensic teams continued to search the large, detached house in Strensall, near Selby, where Mr Britton, 80, and his wife Joan, 82, were murdered. Two women, who were arrested after police searched their homes, were bailed pending further inquiries.