Forensic tests on the skeletal remains of a teenager discovered in the eaves of a 15th-century Italian church may hold clues to the identity of a killer with a hair fetish who murdered a British woman.For several years, Dorset police have linked the 2002 killing of Heather Barnett, 48, to the disappearance and suspected murder of 16-year-old Elisa Claps in Italy.Claps disappeared 17 years ago in Potenza, where her body was found this week in the roof of the church of the Santissima Trinita. She was last seen at the same church having made an appointment to meet an Italian man, Danilo Restivo.Restivo, now 37, became the only suspect in the Claps inquiry, and moved to Britain after serving a jail term for lying to investigators about an injury he sustained on the day of the teenager's disappearance.UK detectives have visited Italy several times in their hunt for Barnett's killer. The mother of two was found in the bathroom of her flat in Bournemouth in November 2002. She had been hit over the head with a heavy object and stabbed several times. Her breasts had been cut from her body and in her hands were strands of hair cut from an unidentified woman.The cases were linked when it was discovered that Restivo had moved into a home across the road from Barnett after serving his perjury sentence.British police said today they were liaising with the Italian authorities after the discovery in Potenza. Detective Constable Helen Davis said she had passed on the news to Barnett's brother, Ben, and sister, Denise Levoir.At Bari University's institute of forensic medicine, where the autopsy on Claps's body is to be carried out, a source said there were "no evident signs" of violence on the body, and it was hoped there could be vital clues in matter below the fingernails.Restivo has been arrested twice by Dorset police and questioned on suspicion of Barnett's murder, but was released without charge. He has always denied involvement in Barnett's death or Claps's disappearance. He still lives opposite the murder scene in Bournemouth with his wife.In an interview with the Italian news agency Ansa, Restivo said this week: "I do not believe my legal position has been impaired in the slightest. On the contrary, I hope that the urgent checks being carried out now will show that I had nothing whatever to do with Elisa Claps's death."Restivo has complained in the past of being harassed by the missing girl's family. He said last year he had received an envelope containing bullets – a traditional mafia warning. Claps's family members have denied any involvement.British detectives are also pursuing a separate link to the Potenza case. While investigating Barnett's killing they found a spate of complaints from women in the area who said strands of their hair had been cut as they travelled by bus in the town. Similar reports had emerged from Potenza before Claps disappeared in 1993.Police in the UK are still awaiting the results of DNA tests of 15 strands of hair taken from Italian women last autumn. Detectives and a forensic team travelled to Italy to take the samples in their hunt for the identity of the woman whose hair was found in Barnett's hands. The women came forward after an appeal on the Italian equivalent of Crimewatch for anyone who had a strand of their hair cut in strange circumstances to come forward.A scientific team from the Forensic Science Service in the UK is still analysing the hair.