The mother of Baby P today apologised for failing her dead son and the pain and suffering she had caused.The 27-year-old, who cannot be identified, wrote from prison to Judge Stephen Kramer at the Old Bailey on the eve of her sentencing for causing or allowing the 17-month-old's death.In the letter – in black ink on a torn out page from a notebook – she said: "I am sorry for all the pain and suffering my failure has led to."I can only hope and pray my family, my ex-husband included, can one day forgive me of my mistakes. However, I know I can't forgive myself of my shortcomings. I am truly sorry."The woman, her 32-year-old lover, and her lodger Jason Owen, 37, will be sentenced tomorrow for causing, or allowing, the death of Baby Peter in August 2007 after he suffered months of torture which was missed by police, doctors and social workers in Haringey, north London.The woman listened in the dock as the letter was read out by her barrister, Paul Mendelle QC.The letter said: "I am writing this letter as I am not sure of a better way to express my regret. I accept I failed Peter ... I am never going to see my lovely son grow into the lovely, sweet man he would have been."During the two-hour hearing Judge Kramer heard mitigation for all three defendants.The boyfriend, hidden by the woman from social workers, is also due to be sentenced for raping a two-year-old girl.Baby Peter's natural father, who cannot be named for legal reasons, told the court his life had become a "living nightmare".In a victim impact statement he told of the moment he was confronted with his son's body in North Middlesex hospital, Edmonton, north London.He said: "I could not believe it was my son. He appeared to be asleep, and I just wanted to pick him up and take him home."My only son must have suffered weeks, if not months, of pain, fear and loneliness. No human being, especially a child, deserves to suffer like Peter suffered in the last weeks and months of his life."Peter's father spoke of his pride when his "bright and bubbly" son was born in March 2006. Five months after the birth the marriage broke down and his father had to move out, resulting in less contact between them.The last time he saw his son was the weekend before his death, the court heard.The father said Peter did not want to leave him when he took him back to his mother. He said: "When I returned him, I remember him screaming and shouting, 'daddy, daddy', so much so that [his mother] brought him back and I cuddled him."I have to live with the knowledge that Peter was actually screaming for help. He did not want to go home as this was a place he associated with pain and suffering."On 3 August 2007 the father received a phone call from the mother saying that Peter was on his way to hospital with breathing difficulties. He rushed to the hospital but when he arrived at the resuscitation area he was told that his son had been declared dead.At first he assumed Peter was a victim of cot death and reassured the little boy's mother when she was arrested that it was routine procedure.After Peter's death the father was unable to work and turned to drink, the court heard."Like all fathers I imagined watching my son growing up, playing football with him and taking him to see Arsenal, watching him open his Christmas and birthday presents, and just develop as a person."All of that has been taken from me. I continue to feel extremely angry about what happened to Peter."Peter had a broken back, fractured ribs, a missing top to a finger and cuts on his scalp. He had been punched in the mouth, causing a tooth to go down into his stomach.The men were convicted of causing or allowing the death of the child. The mother pleaded guilty.Lawyers for the defendants argued there was no evidence they had caused Peter's death. They had all been cleared of murder and manslaughter.Mendelle said the mother was guilty of telling a lie about the man living in her house. She had failed to recognise the potential danger.Although she was considered to be lazy, friends and professionals had all thought of her as a good mother.He claimed she was not aware of Peter's injuries but should have been alarmed the night before when she saw his tooth was missing.The woman had "a terrible childhood" and should not be demonised, he said.She had grown close to the man and saw him as being good with the baby. "This is what she saw, and to a certain extent, what she wanted to believe," he said.Mendelle said the woman was segregated in prison for her safety. "It is unlikely she will be free, even with release."Bernard Richmond QC, for the boyfriend, said: "There is no evidence as to who actually caused any of the injuries."The man would be watched even after release from prison. "He will be a marked man all his life," he added.Timothy Roberts QC, for Owen, said it was clear Peter had been abused before Owen spent five weeks at the house and he should be treated as being less culpable than the other two defendants."His is a crime of oversight, failure to report to the authorities suspicions that he might have had," Roberts put to the judge.