A vicious street brawl in which a 16-year-old boy was killed over the weekend began after a group of youths were barred from a party, police said today.Ben Hitchcock was stabbed to death late on Saturday night as rivals gangs clashed in Beckenham, Kent, with the brawl involving up to 40 youths armed with knives and broken bottles.Witnesses said the teenager was attacked by a group who stamped on his head and forced him on to metal railings. A memorial service was due to take place at the location where he was found fatally wounded.Today, a senior detective said many of the youths had been armed with bats, bricks, bottles and knives."Inquiries have established that the incident began after approximately six boys were barred from entering a party at a nearby location," Detective Superintendent Simon Morgan said."Police were called, and the group were asked to leave. The party was closed down shortly afterwards. The group left the party, and a confrontation ensued."Det Supt Morgan added that 14 teenagers aged between 13 and 16, who were arrested in connection with the murder, had been released on police bail. Nine youths were arrested at the scene, near Crystal Palace FC's training ground, and five more arrests were made yesterday.However, he stressed that the investigation was ongoing and urged anyone with information to contact police.Witnesses said Ben and his friends had tried to flee from a gang. They heard him cry: "Please help me" before he slumped to the ground.Samantha Crossingham, 33, saw the fight when her 12-year-old son called her to the window of their flat near the scene."My son saw the group drag the boy into the road and stamp on his head," she said. "It was like a riot outside. There were up to 30 kids screaming and running all over the place. I threw the phone at my other half and shouted at him to call the police."Ms Crossingham said the boy had got to his feet, but the gang continued attacking him. "The boy got up but then they began punching him towards some metal railings," she said. "They kept on punching him, and I think he just landed on the railings."She grabbed a towel and ran into the street where he was lying. "I put the towel under his back, put him in the recovery position, and tried to talk to him," she said. "He didn't say anything, but was breathing and had a good pulse."After shouting to his friends to give her their jackets to keep him warm, she kept talking to him until the police and ambulance arrived. He was taken to Lewisham hospital, where he was pronounced dead shortly after arrival.Laura Davies, 21, who lives near Southend Road, where the incident happened, said: "I heard screaming from outside my flat, looked out the window and could see kids running down the road."It was crazy. There must have been 30 or 40 at least. They were smashing bottles and all running after about four lads."Friends today paid tribute to Ben, calling him "happy and friendly". He lived in Penge, south-east London, and had recently finished GCSEs at Kelsey Park school, in Bromley, Kent."Ben used to be a good friend," one 16-year-old said. "He was always happy, and always had a joke to say. Everyone is really devastated. He has two brothers, Louis and Jake. They must be distraught. His whole family must be."Detective Chief Inspector John MacDonald said police were following up a lead that the boys involved in the attack got off a bus from Sydenham or Penge.A post mortem examination has yet to take place.