A high-level City secretary was facing jail today after being convicted of fraudulently taking more than £4m from her bosses' bank accounts at Goldman Sachs. Joyti De-Laurey used the cash to mimic the lifestyle of her superiors, buying numerous homes, luxury cars and designer clothes. She bought 11 properties in the UK and abroad. The court heard most of the money was wired to Cyprus, where she had hoped to start a new life with more than £1m in the bank and a £750,000 seafront villa. A £150,000 powerboat and a £175,000 Aston Martin V12 Vanquish would have added further luxury had she not been arrested before they were delivered. The 35-year-old, whose husband and mother helped to launder the money, carried out her carefully calculated fraud by hiding behind her efficiency and the extensive sympathy she generated by lying that she had cancer. The mother of one, who is believed to have stashed a seven-figure slice of her illicit fortune abroad, first targeted Jennifer Moses and her husband, Ron Beller, both managing directors at the blue chip investment bank. After siphoning more than £1.1m from their New York investment accounts, she turned her sights on their much wealthier successor, Edward Scott Mead, then a partner in the global giant and one of the City's top acquisition and take-over specialists. On learning of the verdict today, Mr Mead called De-Laurey "a liar and a thief", claiming her defence was "a ludicrous and malicious fantasy from start to finish". Her trial climaxed today after four months when the jury, sitting at Southwark crown court in London, convicted her of 20 counts of fraud. The jury had deliberating on their verdicts since last Wednesday afternoon and each one was given by a majority 11 to 1.De-Laurey was also convicted of four counts of using a false instrument and 16 counts of obtaining a money transfer by deception. The defendant showed no emotion as the guilty verdicts were read out one by one. The total amount of money raised by her fraudulent transactions was £4,303,259. De-Laurey's husband Anthony, a 50-year-old former chauffeur, faced eight counts of money laundering. He was convicted of four charges and acquitted of the others. De-Laurey's mother - Dr Devi Schahhou, a 68-year-old GP of Hampstead, London - faced five similar allegations. She was convicted on four counts. During the trial, the jury heard that Mr Mead regarded De-Laurey as the best PA he'd ever had. But his trust in her cost him nearly £3.4m and ultimately forced him to confess an extramarital affair with a woman lawyer. "Joyti De-Laurey has mounted a vindictive and implausible defence in which she and her team of lawyers attempted to put the victims on trial ... She deepened her deceit with a despicable lie, admitted in court, that she had terminal cancer," Mr Mead said in his statement today. " ... Prior to the trial, it was apparent that I was being threatened with embarrassing disclosures extracted from those stolen documents in an attempt to put me off giving evidence. Rightly, she has been found guilty. She will now be known as a liar and a thief." The "cash queen" - as Mr Mead branded her - spent nearly £400,000 on diamond-encrusted Cartier jewellery, and showered relatives and friends with cars, gifts, homes and holidays. She even made a couple of £10,000 donations to charities. De-Laurey, of North Cheam, Surrey, had claimed her US bosses allowed her to tap their bank accounts as a reward for her efficiency and for helping Mr Mead keep his infidelity a secret. Opening the trial, Stuart Trimmer, prosecuting, told the jury the case concerned massive fraud and heartless betrayal. The Cartier collection, the expensive clothes, the luxury cars, 11 properties and a succession of five-star holidays were just some of what she dismissed as "fritterings". "It is by no means an exclusive list," said the barrister. "She bought as if she were an extremely rich investment banker. She was being what [her bosses] were." To her colleagues and employers, she was the epitome of efficiency - a "very competent employee, highly regarded, very good at her job ... who came to enjoy an absolute and complete level of trust". But behind lurked a "very clever con artist" whose "unsurpassed lying" and ability as a forger paved the way to "phenomenal wealth". The court heard that within months of starting work for Mrs Moses at £28,000 a year plus bonuses, De-Laurey had proved herself indispensable on both business and personal fronts.She made out cheques for them to sign and paid their many bills, made personal shopping appointments for Mrs Moses, booked waxing sessions for her and arranged holidays, creating a front from behind which she began to steal in June 2000. The bankers, meanwhile, thought so much of De-Laurey that when she claimed cervical cancer meant a hysterectomy, they offered first class flights to the US and private treatment by a leading expert. Mr Mead, for whom she began to work when Mrs Moses and Mr Beller left Goldman Sachs, told the court that his son's earlier leukaemia left him "particularly sensitive and vulnerable" to her apparent plight. Even though Mr Mead had argued to get her a pay rise, De-Laurey again employed her forgery skills to copy his signature on a string of transfer authorities to siphon funds from supposedly secure New York investments. In May 2002, just days after her last theft, the Harvard-educated banker went to make a "significant" donation to his old college ... only to be told he did not have enough money.