The judge in the Shafilea Ahmed murder trial has warned a jury to put aside any "feelings of sympathy and revulsion" when they retire to consider their verdicts after a three-month trial.Mr Justice Roderick Evans began summing up the case at Chester crown court on Tuesday of Shafilea's parents, Iftikhar and Farzana Ahmed, who are jointly accused of murdering their 17-year-old daughter at the family home in Warrington, Cheshire, in September 2003.He told the jury: "Put aside any feelings of sympathy and revulsion. Discuss the evidence coolly and calmly." He told them there was no "special way" or "secret formula" to reaching a verdict, and he urged them to rely on their common sense."You come here from different backgrounds, brought at random," he said. "You all have different life experiences and you all have common sense. The way to decide is ordinary, everyday common sense, and if you do that I have every confidence."Shafilea disappeared on 11 September 2003. Her badly decomposed remains were found on a flooded bank of the river Kent at Sedgwick, Cumbria, five months later in February 2004.The prosecution says she was killed by her parents because she had brought shame on the family as a result of her desire to lead a "westernised" lifestyle. In the six months before her death, she drank bleach during a family trip to Pakistan, the court has been told during the trial.The trial has heard evidence from Shafilea's 24-year-old sister, Alesha, who said she and her siblings had witnessed Shafilea being murdered at the family home in Liverpool Road, Warrington, Cheshire.Iftikhar Ahmed, a 52-year-old taxi driver, denies murder, saying Shafilea ran away from home in the middle of the night and he never saw her again. His 49-year-old wife also denies murder but claims she saw her husband slap and punch Shafilea on the night of her disappearance.She claims her husband told her never to ask him about Shafilea again if she "cared for her dear life" and for those of their children. Farzana Ahmed told the trial she had lied to police because she was "frightened" of her husband, who had threatened to beat her. She had "never seen her husband so angry", she said.Iftikhar Ahmed said his wife's version of events was false, but despite her account he still "loves her to bits". In evidence, he said he was not a violent man and had never harmed his daughter.Once the judge has completed his summing up, the jury will retire to consider its verdicts on the two separate murder charges.