The head of a security firm who organised a calculated and carefully planned attempted gangland execution from the "safety" of a football stadium was jailed for life today.Bobby Speirs, 41, thought he had the perfect alibi as he sat, during a match, in an executive box at Old Trafford, Manchester, while using his mobile phone to coordinate the murder of a rival.But the gangland killing attempt, by two men at the Brass Handles pub, Salford, during a Sunday afternoon match in March 2006 went wrong as one of the attacker's weapons jammed and both gunmen were attacked and killed.Mobile phone traffic linked Speirs to the murder and he aroused suspicion as he fled the country within days of the shooting.Today, at Manchester crown court, Speirs was convicted of conspiracy to murder, following a three-week trial, and jailed for a minimum of 23 years.Mr Justice Griffith Williams told Speirs he had been found guilty "on compelling evidence" of conspiracy to murder in the attempted "professional gangland execution". Speirs had been "prepared for the killing to be done in a crowded public house causing real terror to those present".The trial heard that drinkers at the pub fled in terror when the masked hitmen hired by Speirs, Carlton Alveranga, 20, and Richard Austin, 19, burst in brandishing handguns. Their target, David Totton, who was at a table drinking, was hit and another man, Aaron Travers, was also shot as Austin fired his gun six times. But Alveranga's 9mm handgun jammed.The gunmen were jumped on by those in the pub and disarmed. A known Moss Side gangster who was in the pub was suspected of shooting the killers with their own weapons, before they staggered outside and were beaten as they lay dying.Totton and Travers were severely injured but survived. They refused to co-operate with the police inquiry.It is believed the planned murders were arranged because of Speirs believing he had lost "face" after a dispute with Totton over admission to a Manchester nightclub. The judge said Speirs had told police that rather than contacting officers: "We sort out our own problems."Police believe Speirs recruited Ian McLeod, a boss of the notorious south Manchester Doddington gang, who provided the manpower. McLeod, 44, was jailed for life with a minimum term of 21 years following a trial at Preston crown court in March 2007.Constance Howarth, 40, from Salford, nicknamed the Black Widow, was also given life with a minimum term of 20 years after a jury found her guilty at the same trial as McLeod. She was the "spotter" in the Brass Handles pub, watching the gang's target and guiding them to him by mobile phone.Speirs fled to Benidorm, Spain, a few days after the shootings. Greater Manchester police extradited him to the UK last August.The judge told Speirs he was a very dangerous man who was a significant risk to members of the public.