There are many interesting details emerging about the death of Alan Wilson. Here was a former teacher who had abused at least three of his pupils. A man whose job it had been to act as 'guidance teacher' to a 17-year-old boy whose mother was dying of cancer, and whose guidance was plying him with drink until he threw up and fell unconscious, and then... well. Details. Was he, for example, still alive when his arms and legs were cut off?A former student at Edinburgh's James Gillespie's High School was quoted as saying: 'I am not sorry for him whatsoever because he was a manipulative man. I am sorry though for the people who found his body parts and for his family.'The role of the law is to keep revenge at a distance from justice. 'This was a particularly brutal murder and no one deserves to die in such a manner,' complained Detective Superintendent Bert Swanson, disturbed by about how few people are coming forward with information. It was screaming at 4am on Tuesday morning that heralded the discovery of Wilson's body in a Merchiston back garden last week. It was the first murder in Edinburgh for six months and by lunchtime, author Ian Rankin, who has just moved to the area, was peering over the wall. A woman had found pieces of Wilson under a carpet in the back garden of the tenement where a friend of Wilson's from Saughton prison had been living. Wilson had lived further away, on the Royal Mile, where he led tourists on tours of the Old Town. He had even written a book, Ghostly Tales and Sinister Stories of Old Edinburgh . These were details of the life of a 51-year-old whose career lay in ruins. In 2000, he had been sent to jail for what ended up being 18 months, after being found guilty of sexual assault. The former principal history teacher at James Gillespie's, a fee-paying school in the city, he had been caught when one of the victims' mothers complained her son had come home from his house drunk. His methods were as you'd expect. He was known for his wandering hands. He would pick on the vulnerable and tell others that they were receiving extra study. He would then get them drunk and they would come round to find him on top of them. More mundane still, it was common knowledge among other students. It wasn't quite paedophilia. The boys, always slim, were aged 16 or 17; below an age of consent that, in other circumstances, I would probably argue was too high. There is a question of how his crime might have been dealt with if the pupils had been girls, hopefully with the same custodial sentence. It was a grotesque betrayal of trust, and one which, it seems, has truly strained the quality of our mercy. The reason for this is much more real than some basic disgust at child sex abuse. It is linked to the reality of growing up. In the Child Maltreatment Survey, 3,000 children were asked about their experiences by the NSPCC. One in 10 had experienced penetrative or oral sex or attempts at these against their will before they reached the age of 16. The vast majority of those incidents happen with people they trust, usually within the home, but also at school. Childline, one of the welcoming lights in this darkness, says that each perpetrator has their own methods, but 'I'll kill you and then your mum if you tell' is a common theme. In Wilson's case, the boys were older and probably felt ashamed and guilty. At the time of his trial, James Gillespie's headmaster told the court that Wilson was an 'inspirational' teacher. 'The relationship between the star teacher and star pupil is often a particularly intense one,' according to Childline, which is interesting given that James Gillespie's is the school on which Muriel Spark based The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie. For those who escaped it, it's difficult to understand how such abuse tears a child's mind. Within the protection of modern childhood, the assault is so unexpected that it can break a child with a speed unmatched by any other tragedy. The abuse demands an act of extreme valour on the part of the child. He or she has to reveal the assault to others, despite threats, humiliation, and the feeling of being blind in a place far beyond understanding. Many quail and put up with the abuse, which is why other students always seem to know it is going on. It almost seems funny that one former student said he wasn't surprised Wilson had ended his days in the way he did. What sort of school creates pupils who greet the news of a teacher being hacked into six pieces with a shrug and a 'Que Sera Sera'? The sort in which children have been abused, I'd say. With abuse comes a separation, a drifting apart of reality and emotion, and it is a schism that rarely ever heals. To believe in the rule of law is to know this wasn't justice. It is horrible beyond understanding for Wilson's parents and his two grown children. But one in 10 is someone at an extended family dinner, it's three kids in a classroom, it's a crowd in a multitude. There is enough understanding of what it is to be abused for people to turn away from this murder and feel nothing.ruaridhnicoll@hotmail.com