Thank goodness, Titans are no more. All those who have been strenuously opposed to them ever since their announcement, by Jack Straw, immediately following a report that he had commissioned from Lord Carter of Coles, and without any consultation with interested and experienced parties outside the Ministry of Justice, will be breathing huge sighs of relief.I have to admit that I am equally opposed to the proposed building of five new prisons each with a capacity of 1,500 – this is still too large; of the existing stock, only Liverpool and Wandsworth are on this scale. Again, there has been no consultation and all the same arguments about big not being beautiful, as regards the successful rehabilitation of prisoners, apply. But what seems more sad, when money is tight and the Ministry of Justice is being required to implement cuts, is that, yet again, the main issue affecting the successful conduct of the criminal justice system has been ducked.I say this because there is one word that should be staring ministers in the face when they look, objectively, at current practice: it is "waste". Moving prisoners all over England, to where there are bed spaces, disrupting courses and preventing the continuity that would be possible if they were confined in their own geographical areas, is a gross waste of time and money. The bureaucratic procedures demanded by the grossly inflated National Offender Management Service (Noms), now expanded into a 4,270-strong agency, absorb vast amounts of money that could be spent on rehabilitation. Thousands of prisoners are being held long past their tariff dates, some because there are no courses that they are required to complete before being put before the parole board, some because administrative procedures have not been completed, all of whom cost the country £37,500 per year. Add to that the hideous cost of the bureaucratic procedures that prevent the rudderless probation service from doing all that is asked of it, and it becomes obvious that far too much money is being diverted from the real purpose of the system, namely the protection of the public by the prevention of possible re-offending, by tackling the reasons offenders have been unable to live useful and law-abiding lives thus far.Last week's budget forecast of years of austerity ahead should act as a wake-up call to those who are responsible for this waste. Instead of building vast bureaucracies such as Noms, with their insatiable demands for information from subordinates, the provision of which takes them away from their operational duties, they should aim to slim them down so that as much of the available money is spent on work with offenders. Management must be decentralised and local employers enabled to conduct courses that produce appropriately trained workforces; local teachers enabled to ensure continuity of work begun with those who are illiterate; and local drug workers enabled to carry on from the work of those helping substance abusers in prisons.The logic of calling a halt to the current wasteful and inefficient ways has been there for all to see since Lord Woolf wrote his masterly report on the riots in Strangeways in 1990. Since then, it has seemed that the criminal justice system has been conducted in defiance of that logic, which is not to say that a large number of people have not done, and are doing, an enormous amount of good work in prisons, and in the community, up and down the country. But the fact that so few good things done somewhere are turned into common practice everywhere, the fact that innovations developed by a good governor of a prison are dropped by his or her successor because there is no overall strategy within which they are required to operate, makes those who have observed this waste for so long weep.I do not weep for Titans. But I do weep for the fact that there is no sign that the economic reality that sounded their death knell has not yet stimulated Straw into tackling the far deeper seated malaise of endemic waste. This is bound to go on consuming far too much of increasingly scarce resources, unless there is an urgent and radical reappraisal of the way in which the criminal justice system is conducted.