Antisocial behaviour is one of Britain's biggest problems, according to those focus groups conducted by Number 10. Hence Tony Blair's keenness for eyecatching measures to show the government is being tough on yobs and troublesome neighbours.No matter how impractical, if the idea has popular appeal it's in. We've already had a chaotic scheme to march unruly revellers off to cash machines to pay on-the-spot fines.Now the idea of docking housing benefit to antisocial tenants is back. Mr Blair is so keen on it that yesterday proposed it for a second time, only two years after it was almost unanimously rejected as counter-productive and unworkable by those who would have had to implement the plan.Docking benefit for bad behaviour chimes with Mr Blair's fondness for stressing the responsibilities of citizens alongside their rights. When he was first touting the idea in 2002, Mr Blair told the Guardian: "We are examining the issue of when people are paid substantial amounts of benefits by the state and their children are persistently truanting, committing offences. Is it fair that they owe no sense of responsibility in return?"The reappearance of the of the idea in yesterday's action plan shows just how far he is prepared to ignore expert opinion in his crusade for respect.The idea of cutting benefit for bad behaviour was first put forward, in a private members bill, by Frank Field that thinker of unthinkable (and unworkable) welfare reforms. The bill failed but the government took up the gist of the bill with proposals of its own.These were overwhelmingly criticised. The government was warned that it would lead to widespread homelessness. Many said benefit sanctions would undermine efforts to tackle antisocial behaviour and simply move the problem on.Of the 80 housing associations consulted about the plans, 78 expressed opposition. The Local Government Association summed up the general view, when it the idea was "deeply flawed, wrong in principle and unworkable in practice".Even the government's favourite thinktank, the IPPR, said the idea was unworkable and unfair since it would only deal with people in rented housing. And in private the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, the department responsible for housing, was also against using benefit as a tool against antisocial behaviour.Chris Pond, the government minister responsible for housing benefit at the time, was forced eat humble pie. He announced to parliament that in light of the responses, the government had decided to drop benefit sanctions for antisocial tenants.But within two years the idea is back, albeit in a slightly modified form. Mr Blair's respect action plan threatens benefit sanctions to unruly families that have been evicted but refuse help to change their behaviour.Housing experts are already queuing up to oppose the plans."Docking the housing benefit of families in crisis will only lead to increased homelessness and more antisocial behaviour," said David Orr, chief executive of the National Housing Federation.A spokesman for the homelessness charity Shelter added: "Withholding housing benefit would simply exacerbate poverty and move the problem on to a new set of neighbours and increase homelessness."When similar points were made last time round Frank Field dismissed such talk as the usual whingeing from the "trade associations of the welfare state".Mr Blair looks set to take a similar attitude to those that dare to question his initiative this time. He hopes to appeal over the heads of the experts to the general public.A similar tactic was tried when the plans for benefit sanctions where first touted. One of Mr Blair's young acolytes, Douglas Alexander, organised a petition of his constituents in favour of docking benefit for antisocial acts. Some 211 people from Paisley and Renfrewshire South signed up.On that occasion, the petition in favour was drowned out by the deluge of expert opinion against.But now Mr Blair has adopted a new tactic for marshalling support for populist measures. He has invited members of the public to email their views on his respect action plan. The hope must be that if the public shows enough enthusiasm for the measures in the plan, this time expert doubt can be brushed aside.