Mrs Justice Cox said the trial of Magdelena Luczak and Mariusz Krezolek had revealed "harrowing details of the unimaginable acts of cruelty and brutality inflicted on little Daniel over many months".The four-year-old boy had suffered "torment and despair" and the pair had shown "callous disregard for his pain and distress".The judge said: "Time and time again, knowing exactly what you were doing to him, both of you concealed your conduct from the authorities by a series of deliberate and elaborate lies, designed to put them off the scent and to prevent them discovering Daniel's true plight. Your campaign of cruelty culminated in the severe blow or blows to his head that killed him."The pair showed no emotion as the judge's words were translated into Polish by two interpreters.Mrs Justice Cox said the couple's complicity in hiding what was happening to Daniel first began in January 2011 when he suffered a fractured arm at the hands of his stepfather. That would have resulted in "excruciating pain" – yet he was not taken to hospital until the following day. The judge said they had waited to see if the injury could be kept secret, then lied to doctors about how it happened. "This determination to lie and protect yourselves at all costs was to become the hallmark of your conduct."She told Krezolek that his attitude to Daniel was clear in July 2011 when he described him to a work colleague as "all fucked up" and "not worth beating because he wouldn't feel pain".The judge told the court that the pair's "systematic cruelty" probably began in September 2011 when the little boy started school. She told the couple: "He was subjected by both of you to deliberate, escalating and incomprehensible brutality, which continued right up to his death. For reasons which are unfathomable Daniel became a target for derision, abuse and systematic cruelty."She continued: "The scale of his suffering was truly horrific. He was subjected to acts designed to cause pain, to humiliate and intimidate. He was required to kneel on the floor for long periods of time, to run continuously around the living room or to perform squats repeatedly and slowly."He was repeatedly forced to swallow salt, which you admit was poured neat into his mouth from the salt container and which caused him to vomit."He was subjected to a form of cold water punishment, being held under cold water until the point of unconsciousness. He must have been absolutely terrified."He was confined for regular and prolonged periods in the small, bare box room. The inner door handle was removed and the metal panel so arranged that he could not see out of the keyhole. The small hand and finger marks on the inside of the door provided a poignant image of his desperate attempts to escape. The urine stains on the mattress on which he was made to sleep and the damp state of the carpet testify to his inability to go to the toilet when he needed."Turning to the couple's deliberate campaign of starvation, she said: "It is a particularly aggravating feature in this case that before the fatal blows to his head, Daniel was the victim of chronic and systematic starvation. Both of you deliberately deprived him of food. He was literally wasting away. His starvation was so chronic that his bones ceased to grow."Expert medical witnesses described their shock at Daniel's emaciation at his death. They regarded it as unprecedented in this country. They likened his appearance to those who failed to survive concentration camps."As the months passed Daniel scavenged for food, from other children's lunch boxes, from the playground or from rubbish bins. He would have suffered extraordinary hunger, increasing abdominal pains and ultimately a feeling of hopelessness. You, Luczak, knowing of his hunger gave instructions to teachers that Daniel was not to eat any more food than the small packed lunch he had with him."The judge turned to the cover-up, telling the pair: "Both of you constructed a careful and wholly untruthful account that Daniel had a serious eating disorder and learning difficulties for which he was receiving medical treatment. This account was designed to prevent interference by school, medical and welfare personnel and to perpetuate the bullying meted out to him." She added that both had carried out a "cynical deception of teaching, welfare and medical practitioners".Mrs Justice Cox said that on the evening of 1 March 2012, Daniel was forced to eat salt and subjected to the cold water punishment before suffering the fatal blow or blows to his head. She said she believed the head injury was inflicted by his step-father but said his mother was jointly responsible. The judge said Daniel then lay alone "as his life slipped away" until just before 3am on Saturday. "You both continued your lives hoping he would regain consciousness and your conduct towards him could continue."They did not make the 999 call, the judge suggested, until they had planned the "detailed lies" about what they claimed had happened to him.Mrs Justice Cox said there was "no basis" for distinguishing between the pair. She said the relationship was "intense and stormy, marked by heavy drinking, mutual acts of aggression and yet strong physical attraction", adding: "Yours was a partnership of equals."The judge said aggravating factors included the fact that Daniel would have suffered "serious mental and physical suffering" immediately before his death. After the blows to his head there may have been a "lucid interval, which – though short-lived – would have resulted in Daniel suffering fear, anguish and physical pain before he lost consciousness".She said both had been in breach of the "most important position of trust, as the parents of a young child who was entitled to their protection, love and care".She said Luczak's breach of trust was "wholly irreconcilable with the loving care a mother should show towards her own son".She said she had seen no signs of genuine remorse, adding: "Your expressions of regret and sorrow ring hollow."