Just across the roundabout from the Coronet cinema, opposite an anonymous bus stop along an anonymous suburban road lies a simple grey marble plaque. Unless you know what you are looking for it is easy to miss. Engraved with the epitaph 'In memory of Stephen Lawrence,13.9.1974 22.4.1993. May he rest in peace' it marks the spot where the black teenager died. Twice last year the plaque came under attack from racist vandals. On one occasion it was daubed with paint and an attempt made to chisel out the name. The second time it was so badly damaged by a hammer it had to be replaced. Yards from where Stephen was killed lies Phineas Pett Road, where Gary Dobson, one of the five suspects, now lives with his father. It is part of the Progress Estate, built during the first world war to house munitions workers recruited by the Woolwich Arsenal. It was designed to feel like a village, a characteristic it retains. Like the nearby Brook Estate where two of the other suspects, Jamie and Neil Acourt, lived at the time of the killing, it remains almost exclusively white. Eltham is a suburb of two communities with contrasting perceptions of the area in which they live. Black residents are likely to say it is racist while whites say it suffers from an unfair reputation.'What happened with Stephen Lawrence was terrible,' said one woman pushing a baby in a pram up Well Hall Road. 'But there has been a lot of rubbish talked about this neighbourhood. Look at it, it's a nice place to live'. 'The Lawrence thing has been going on for a long time now and everybody seems to want to find someone to blame. They were just a gang of young thugs, nasty bits of work. You get your gangs here but you get them anywhere.'  'I'm not on the streets after 10pm,' said Kirti, a 17 year-old black student. 'You never know what's going to happen around here. There's lots of white gangs, it's the teenagers who are the big problem. I never walk around on my own. What happend to Stephen could happen to me. So why should I take the risk?' Some of the white residents appear embarassed by the scrutiny the community has come under. 'It's not very nice,' said a man in his thirties. 'When you tell people you are from Eltham and white they automatically think you must be a racist.' A black woman in her eighties, who lives just yards from where Stephen was stabbed, said: 'For people here what happened seems so terrible they do not want to admit it. These people are tired of hearing about Stephen Lawrence. They just want to shut it out. I was there when he was killed,' she added. A teacher who taught one of the five Lawrence suspects described Eltham as a 'racial powder keg'. He spoke of the knife culture at the school which he left two years ago. 'Teachers are scared, pupils are scared, but nobody seems to be dealing with the problem'. 'The racial mix in the schools is immense. Where I taught there are more than 40 languages spoken and so many of these kids carry knives and machetes. Tensions build and when the pupils leave the schools the attitudes they have stay with them. There are a lot of decent people, white and black, in the area, and they are frightened by what is going on'. 'It is as if people are walking around on a racial powder keg. Just take the centre of Eltham, it is so frightening, particularly at night.' During the day Eltham High Street looks like any other semi-suburban town centre. But at dusk, as the shoppers scurry home for their cars and buses small groups of young white youths begin to descend on the town. Young boys in designer clothes, compete for the attentions of teenage girls, smoking, shouting and swearing at each other.  Opposite McDonalds stands the Greyhound pub. It looks like any other town centre watering hole: the newly-re-furbished interior is made up of pine chairs and fake Victorian fittings. Ordering a drink, an inquiry about the Lawrence five brought a frosty response from the barmaid. 'I'd be careful in here if I was you,' she said nervously. 'This is Gary and Luke's local pub. A lot of their friends drink in here.'  In a room at the back a group of twentysomething boys are playing pool. They are wearing sweatshirts emblazoned with Armani and other designer logos; de-riguer for urban white youth. So how often do they come in? 'A couple of times a week I guess, here and in the Chequers down the road. But I don't know really,' she said looking away.  There are few non-white faces strolling along the high street compared with other London areas. 'I try and keep away from the centre of town,' said a 40 year-old black midwife who did not want to give her name. 'I've been abused and my car has been attacked. If I get called out after 10pm to a house in Eltham I won't attend. There is a danger that something could happen.' In another pub down the road, Sam, a 17 year old waiting to meet his girlfriend talks about the 'five' who are still very much part of the local social scene. 'You do see them around the town a lot,' he said. 'I think people basically leave them alone. If you're in a shop and one of them is there people do nudge each other and whisper'. What about their friends? 'I think the people they hang out with sort of hero worship them. I just don't go into the pubs where they go. Everybody round here just wants to be a gangster,' he said, looking into his pint. Is there a lot of racism in Eltham? 'It's not all as bad as with the Lawrence five, but yeah, there is'.