Mobile phone records have become a key element of virtually every major criminal case and often prove more valuable than DNA or fingerprint evidence, according to experts in the field.Such a record helped to trap Detective Constable Brian Stevens, liaison officer to the family of the Soham murder victim Jessica Chapman, who was jailed for eight months last week after being found guilty of conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. Part of the evidence was provided by specialist telecommunications experts, known as forensic engineers, who used Stevens's mobile phone records to show that he had lied about his whereabouts on the night his laptop computer was used to download child pornography. Mobile phone companies receive around 700,000 requests for information each year, and the figure is rising quickly as the technology available to pinpoint a phone's exact location becomes increasingly sophisticated. David Bristowe of Focus Forensic Telecommunications, one of the leading experts in the field, said DNA and fingerprint evidence could be of limited value if a suspect has a legitimate reason to be in a particular location. Phone evidence, however, often proved a suspect was not telling the truth. Stuart Campbell, the uncle of the Essex schoolgirl Danielle Jones, was convicted of her murder partly because of evidence that he had sent himself a text message from her phone after she had vanished. Phone evidence can also be used to exonerate suspects. In April 2002, two brothers aged 16 were cleared of murdering 10-year-old Damilola Taylor after a judge ruled that they could not have run from where Damilola sustained his fatal injury to an area where they made mobile calls shortly afterwards. 'We are finding we can be even more accurate in pinpointing a phone's location,' Bristowe told The Observer . 'This is because the phone companies are increasingly switching to smaller transmitters that cover small areas, often no more than 100 metres at a time.' In one recent case police arrested two suspected killers as they tried to board a ferry to France just hours after the victim was shot. Detectives tracked the pair as they sped along the motorway heading from London to the coast before picking them up when they reached the port. The mobile phone operators are extremely reluctant to discuss their role in the provision of such evidence but The Observer understands that each has a dedicated police liaison department where dozens of staff work around the clock. 'It is a busy department but we do not want to say how many staff we employ or how many inquiries we receive. Some of the jobs take only a few minutes while others can run to hundreds of hours,' said a Vodafone spokesperson. With juries often willing to rely heavily on the evidence of mobile phone location, some career criminals are attempting to use the system to their own advantage. According to one underworld source, the cleverest use their phones to provide false alibis. 'They give someone a couple of hundred quid and send them to Brighton for the day with a list of numbers of friends and family to call. Meanwhile, they go off and rob a bank in south London. It if all goes wrong they have a ready-made defence case.' Other gangs purchase unregistered pay-as-you-go phones to use for the robbery, disposing of them immediately afterwards, but even this system is not foolproof, especially if the gang resort to using text messages rather than voice calls. Any text message, whether sent or received, can be retrieved from a phone months later, even if they have been deleted. According to Bristowe, text messages are often particularly relevant in rape cases, where messages sent immediately before and after the alleged offence can be crucial to answering the question of whether consent was given. 'There have been cases where a message has been sent thanking someone for a wonderful evening and then a few hours later a report of rape is made.' Winchester Crown Court heard the case last May of a mother who wrote a text message predicting her own murder on the day she was stabbed to death by her former husband. In the message, which she did not send but simply stored on her phone, Julie Sheppard said that Howard Woodin had threatened to stab her and said that if he did, he would claim it was self-defence. The message read: '20 march 03, twice 2 day howard threatened to knife or stab me, put hand round my throat, tried to push me b-wards into kitchen. Said he would say self def.' Both predictions proved accurate but the jury dismissed Woodin's plea of not guilty - he claimed he had been attacked first and that his former wife had turned the knife on herself - and he was jailed for life for murder.