A Cumbria doctor who killed a grandmother with a diamorphine overdose told yesterday of the moment he realised he had given the same potentially fatal injection to another patient who stopped breathing. The patient had to be given mouth-to-mouth resuscitation and an emergency antidote by paramedics.Dr Michael Stevenson, 57, told a disciplinary hearing of the General Medical Council sitting in Manchester how he gave a builder who was suffering from back pain 35mg of the drug when he thought he was administering 5mg.When the on-call doctor arrived, the 59-year old, known only as Mr E, was in so much pain he could not move. After Stevenson injected him, he heard the man's wife say: "Is he all right, doctor?""Mr E held his throat and was beginning to roll his eyes," Stevenson told the GMC panel. "I realised something was wrong. At that stage he was still pink. I tried to rouse him but there was no response. At that point I realised he was not breathing."Mr E had to be given mouth-to-mouth resuscitation before he was injected with an antidote by paramedics and taken to hospital, where he made a full recovery.The incident happened in January 2005 and took place within an hour of Stevenson treating a Workington grandmother, Marjorie Wright, 58, whom he killed with an identical overdose of diamorphine. He was sentenced to 15 months in jail, suspended for two years, for her manslaughter.In the current hearing he also faces misconduct charges in relation to his drug treatment of three other patients; two were terminally ill and died shortly afterwards. In two cases, the doses he administered were "in excess of recommended guidance and potentially fatal" and his actions "were not in the best interests of the patients and irresponsible", the GMC alleges.Stevenson said he only realised his mistake with the builder an hour later while writing up notes, when he checked the box and noticed the diamorphine was in 30mg ampoules, not 5mg."That's when I realised what had happened," he told the GMC. "I could not believe it at first ... The thing is, as a GP you rehearse in your mind most scenarios so when it happens you have got a plan in mind . . . This was not a situation I had ever rehearsed or thought about. I was just on automatic pilot. I shut the box, sat in the car, tried to process what this meant. My first thought was relief he had survived."The GP also admits he later recorded in his notes that he only administered 5mg.In September 2007, lawyers for the GMC told a high court hearing, which extended his suspension from practice, that inquiries had been launched into up to 14 further possible excessive dose cases involving Stevenson. The court heard Cumbria police investigated those allegations but no criminal charges would be brought.Stevenson denies his fitness to practice is impaired because of his alleged actions in the four cases before the disciplinary panel. He remains on an interim suspension order, meaning he cannot work as a doctor, and has previously vowed never to practise again. The hearing continues.