Now and then, the movie-release schedule snaps into line with real-world events. This time last week I'd already planned to write something about a pair of new films touching on cinema's age-old idea of the city as dark, perilous and eternally menacing. As it turns out, the week in London and elsewhere made most of that feel wincingly redundant. The films themselves, however, are anything but.The first is The Interrupters, veteran documentarian Steve James's remarkable portrait of a trio of former gang members physically intervening in outbreaks of street violence; the second: Elite Squad 2, Brazilian director José Padilha's sequel to his queasy, but vastly successful, 2007 story of a mob of Rio supercops. In pretty much every aspect of their work, James and Padilha couldn't be more different, but each of them takes as their backdrop the kind of desperate inner-city worlds that make audiences clammy with unease.I've written before about the excellence of The Interrupters, a movie of profound patience and intensity that builds into a three-way character study of its fearless protagonists. But it's also a film about Chicago, or at least a chunk of it: the battered neighbourhood of Englewood isn't far from the glinting skyscrapers of the financial district, but in many ways it's a different city altogether: defined by a constant cycle of violence, where squabbles escalate into gunfights, rage and heartbreak.James's film is a true story about local heroes trying to staunch the bloodflow by applying reason, one feud at a time. In The Interrupters, the immediate future is down to the people of Englewood themselves: the ex-dealers, repentant killers, sad-eyed kids. Without them, there would be no one to turn to at all – the absence of police calling to mind the words of the late master of London crime fiction Derek Raymond: "The tragedy of help is that it never arrives."But the saviours of Padilha's Rio do arrive, and then some – the first Elite Squad showed strutting cops wading into the favelas in paramilitary garb, gaily spraying bullets in a manner that, if The Interrupters is frequently compared with The Wire, resembled a steroidal remake of The Professionals. Hard for it not to come to mind this week as panicked Londoners called for the army to be sent into Croydon and Clapham Junction.You could see in Padilha's movie the ongoing influence of City of God, here repurposed for a story that portrayed the city's policing as a form of social pest control. The cops were labelled "fascist" in Variety's review of the film, which may have been partly why, in the sequel, Padilha has his hero pursue corruption in the force itself. But Elite Squad's box office success in Brazil had already set him on his way to bigger things. His next project is the much-discussed remake of RoboCop, that 1980s masterwork set in a futuristic Detroit crumbling into economic collapse – the same Detroit where for $100 you can buy either a house or a lavish book of photography documenting the city's ruin.Of course, no British city has quite the end-of-the-world ambience of Detroit, or Chicago's hood, or Rio's favelas. But one film this year did deal with the complex nature of London (at least, in the unlikely context of a tale about aliens with neon-blue fangs): Joe Cornish's Attack the Block. There, amid the sci fi, was a dead-on evocation of inner-London's staticky, short-fuse reality – in particular, the uneasy entry of middle-class homeowners into estates filled with teenagers who are obsessively proud of their postcode, because there's nothing else to take pride in. Cornish's scowling hoodies were several miles from lovable, but the film also showed them to be something more than monstrous – a detail that risks getting lost in the aftermath of this momentous week.