Ministers are considering appointing a senior spy chief as Britain’s top law enforcement officer.A deputy director-general of MI5 is one of three candidates in the running to lead the National Crime Agency, Britain’s version of America’s FBI.The NCA was established in 2013 by the Conservative-led coalition government to tackle serious and organised crime. The appointment of a senior spy chief to lead the agency would reinforce the fears of some in policing that the government is moving ahead with plans to strip the Metropolitan police of its counter-terrorism brief and hand it to the NCA.National Crime Agency director general: UK snooping powers are too weak Interviews for the post – which will be decided by the home secretary, Theresa May – will be held soon.The Guardian is not naming the senior intelligence official, in line with editorial guidelines followed by British news organisations not to do so, unless it is in the public interest. He is an expert in counter-terrorism and has also served in a security role at the Home Office.The NCA is a rival for power and prestige with the Metropolitan police, Britain’s biggest police force; so far it is a fight the fledgling national agency has been losing.The director-general of the NCA has the power to direct police chiefs, including the head of the Met. And the Home Office is increasing the salary – and arguably the status – of the new NCA boss, to make it comparable to the £275,000 paid to Scotland Yard commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe.The Met serves London and also has national responsibilities, most importantly its lead role in the fight against terrorism.Relations between the Conservatives and police are poor. And in May this year parliament’s powerful home affairs committee called for counter-terrorism control to be moved to the NCA.Another candidate for the post is Lynne Owens, the chief constable of Surrey, who is seen by some as the favourite. If appointed, the former Met assistant commissioner would become the most senior woman ever in British law enforcement. However her chances will not have been helped by Monday’s HM Inspector of Constabularies’ (HMIC) reporton preparedness for the future, which concluded that the Surrey force “requires improvement”.The other applicant is Chris Sims, chief constable of the West Midlands force. He is not seen as naturally in tune with the government, but the HMIC inspection rated his force as “outstanding”. West Midlands police is the second largest force in England and Wales, meaning Sims has a track record of leading a large organisation. He applied last time in 2011 but lost out to Keith Bristow, chief of the relatively small Warwickshire police.The NCA has been beset by problems. It took over from the Serious and Organised Crime Agency (Soca), which was created by Labour and faced questions about its effectiveness. Its first leader was Sir Stephen Lander, a former MI5 boss, who adopted a low-key style for the agency that meant its problems got more media coverage than its successes.The Conservative coalition government abolished Soca and replaced it with the NCA. Bristow started his role in 2012 and will stand down next year.The senior intelligence chief applying for the job is a career MI5 officer who has previously been seconded to the Home Office in the office of security and counter-terrorism.In a 2014 interview with the Guardian, Bristow explained the benefits of giving the counter-terror brief to the NCA. He said terrorists and organised criminals often operate in the same way and that “the tactics of law enforcement to tackle these people are often the same”.Bristow said that in a time of austerity it would be sensible to look at shared capabilities to tackle the twin threats. “The judgment that will need to be made is how do we get best effect out of our collective effort against terrorists and organised criminals … the strategic national threats that can’t be tackled in isolation.”Asked if he saw advantages for terrorism and organised crime-fighting being led by the same organisation, Bristow said: “I can see advantages for shared capability.”Bristow is stepping down, the NCA says, having completed the onerous task of getting the NCA operational and having served out his four-year term.Several other top NCA chiefs are also leaving, with the deputy director general, Phil Gormley, having already departed.The NCA is directly answerable to the home secretary and the successful candidate will get a five-year term.Top law enforcement jobs have recently struggled to attract applicants. Just one person applied to succeed Sims as chief of West Midlands police; his deputy, David Thompson got the post. Two people applied to lead the Greater Manchester constabulary, when Ian Hopkins was appointed to succeed his boss Sir Peter Fahy. 