We do not yet know who killed Jimmy Mizen, the 16-year-old attacked in the bakery where he worked earlier this month. But we do know that whoever did it, unlike his victim, lacked courage. We are told that Jimmy Mizen did not want to fight. At over six feet in height he was tall for his age, by all accounts a "gentle giant", brought up well by a loving family who instilled in him positive and caring values. His killer appears to have seen this reticence, this caution, as a weakness, rather than the strength it was.If the 19-year-old suspect who is now awaiting trial were convicted of murder he would go to prison for a very long time. To give us an idea of how long, if he were found guilty, after sentencing him to life imprisonment his judge would award him a "tariff", the minimum period he will have to spend in custody. Given the media coverage of the killing and the subsequent public outrage, as expressed on radio phone-in shows and news programmes during the ensuing days, the tariff would probably be a high one. The fact that the suspect, at 19, is just three years older than his alleged victim might afford him a little mitigation – but not much. In recent years judges have handed out tariffs of more than 20 years to teenage killers without compunction. Length of time not withstanding, life in prison for the perpetrator of this crime – whoever it is - is going to be demanding. He would begin his sentence in a Young Offenders' Institution, where the dynamics of the prisoner hierarchy are not so different to those in an adult prison. On the landings he would be notorious, a "celebrity con". There would be no hiding place wherever he went. Other prisoners would know long before he arrived in their jail that he was coming. And once on the wing, they would whisper and point. Because Jimmy Mizen was under 18, his killer would be a "schedule one" offender – officialese for a child killer. Though there seem to be no redeeming features about what he did, he is not a child killer in the strictest prison sense, so his fellow prisoners may not hold that particular aspect of his crime against him. Nevertheless, he is not a bank robber, or a major drug baron. So if he does not give the impression quickly that he is to be feared, he would be targeted.To protect himself he could either express a fierce willingness to again use violence and "front" any potential antagonists at the earliest opportunity, regardless of the consequences. Or he could "go on the numbers" (Rule 43: segregation for own protection) – and ask to be isolated from the main prisoner population in a VPU, Vulnerable Prisoner Unit. The only hope he would have of achieving anything good with his prison time, however, is if he chose to do neither. If he managed stay on the landings and stand his ground against those who might want to make his life more life difficult, without resorting to threats or violence, then he might have a chance. For all the limitations that prison life provides, there are facilities and opportunities that can help to bring meaning to a wasted life. So much would depend on the choices he would make.As he moved through the system, transferring to the high security estate when he reached 21, he would have to try to come to terms with his actions, as well as surviving. There are people who work in our prisons who would endeavour to help him, but his crime would be a load that only he could bear. He would never be able to make up for what he had taken away. But he could make the effort to find the courage to use his prison time well and to find a better way to live than he did before. He would owe that much at least to Jimmy Mizen and his family.