When Mark Dixie murdered Sally Anne Bowman before having sex with her lifeless body, it was far from the first time he had committed acts of sexual violence.Although the chef's friends and girlfriends knew him as an ordinary man who drank and took drugs recreationally, the 37-year-old father-of-three, from south London, had a hidden life as a prolific sex attacker.Dixie has a string of convictions for sexually motivated crime dating back more than 20 years. The Old Bailey heard that, when he was 17, he was convicted of indecent assault and assault occasioning actual bodily harm on a Jehovah's Witness who called at his flat.In 1998, when he was living in Australia, he allegedly stabbed a 20-year-old student, raping her and leaving her for dead, the jury was told. Dixie has never been charged with that crime, but DNA analysis after his arrest for Bowman's murder suggests he was responsible. He denied it in court, saying he could not remember the woman - who had given evidence from behind a screen - and suggesting she was possibly a one-night stand or a prostitute he had met.Dixie's criminal record is far more lengthy than the jury was ever entitled to hear when considering the case.In May 1986, when he was 16, he was charged with robbery and indecent assault after he and an accomplice held a knife to a woman's throat and fondled her breasts. He was eventually convicted of just robbery after the indecent assault charge was left on file.In 1988, he was found guilty of indecent assault and two counts of indecent exposure. In court on that occasion, he asked for five similar offences to be taken into consideration. The following year, he was found guilty of indecent exposure after masturbating at a woman's car window.There were other, non-sexually motivated convictions in the UK in the late 80s and early 90s before Dixie moved to Australia in 1993.He did not stop offending when he moved. In 1999, he received an Australian conviction after pouncing on a lone woman jogger. He had taken his clothes off and waited for her in the bushes before jumping out at her and asking her to perform a sexual act. It was after his conviction that the Australian police deported him back to the UK, ostensibly because he had overstayed illegally.When he returned to the UK, no information about his offending in Australia was passed to the UK authorities. Although he had a criminal record in Britain, his convictions all took place before DNA analysis was routinely used in police investigations and prior to the introduction of the national DNA database.It was only when he was arrested for a minor assault after a bar brawl in June 2006 - around nine months after killing Bowman - that his DNA was put on the database.Despite his prolific offending, those who knew Dixie say they had no idea about his criminal record. They knew him under a variety of aliases - Mark Down, Mark James McDonald, Steven McDonald and Shane Turner.Stacey Nivet, Dixie's girlfriend at the time of Bowman's murder, and mother of his youngest son, told the court he was a regular drug user who, when high, was "the life and soul of any party" but had a tendency to get moody the following day. She said she once spoke to Dixie about the murder and he "appeared to be just as repulsed as I was".It was only after his arrest that his friends recalled his slightly strange behaviour following Bowman's murder. Victoria Chandler, whose house Dixie was staying at on the night of the killing, only 400 yards from where Bowman's body was found, told the court he reacted angrily when a friend suggested he should be screened by police looking for the Bowman's killer. "Are you calling me a murderer?" he said, leaving the country soon afterwards to live in Amsterdam for a few months.Dixie, who has never married, has three sons by two different women. Giving evidence in witness box at the Old Bailey, he said he came from a broken home. His father left when he was 18 months old and, at the age of nine, his mother began living with another man and he gained two stepbrothers. None of his family attended court during his trial.Throughout the trial, he denied killing Bowman, saying he had chanced upon her lifeless body while out to score drugs and had "opportunistic" sex with her.Detectives now suspect Dixie is responsible for a string of unsolved crimes in addition to his five convictions for sex attacks in south London between 1986 and 1990. They also believe the Bowman killing was not his first murder. Detective Superintendent Stuart Cundy, who led the investigation, said: "I still remain convinced he has still done something somewhere."Although Dixie has been ruled out of any other UK murder, it is thought he may have got away with a series of sex attacks while living in Australia. "There is a lot we don't know about Mark Dixie," Cundy added. "He has got away with stuff around the world and thought he was invincible. "In life he is a freeloader. He will just use people and move on. He showed no shame or humility at all."Cundy appealed for any other women who think they could have been a victim of Dixie to get in touch.