The first indication that the Home Office had caved in came by letter: "I am instructed to admit liability for breach of Sarah Campbell's human rights under article 8 of the European convention on human rights ..." Official confirmation came obliquely earlier, on a stark printout from the high court of justice, queen's bench division. "The defendants do pay the claimants (sic) costs of the action ..."When she read that, Pauline Campbell knew that in a highly unusual move the Home Office was finally admitting responsibility for the death of her 18-year-old daughter, Sarah, who died in Styal prison in January 2003 following a drug overdose - the third of six women to die at the Cheshire jail in a 12-month period. Sarah had had learning difficulties, was a heroin addict at 16 and had committed at least 28 acts of self-harm while she had previously been on remand.The six deaths at Styal, between August 2002 and 2003, had followed a report by the chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers, in February 2002 in which she urged that a detoxification unit and methadone treatment programme be set up immediately. In a 2004 report, Owers noted that "only after the sixth death was a methadone prescribing regime put in place to manage heroin withdrawal properly, and that was set up in great haste, in a matter of days".Campbell, a retired teacher, has organised 18 demonstrations outside jails where women have died and has been arrested 12 times since her bereavement, emerging as the single most vociferous and prolific, non-professional critic of the policy of jailing vulnerable women.In her first interview following the Home Office's admission earlier this month, Campbell says: "It's a complete vindication of what I've been saying since Sarah died: that women are sent to prisons that cannot meet their human needs, and the Home Office admission that Sarah's human rights were violated is clarification of that."She is still angry, pointing out that since Sarah's death 31 women prisoners have died in custody and that vulnerable women are treated badly. She says: "Only this year, the chief inspector of prisons discovered that menstruating women are still slopping out in our jails. It is disgusting."Along with the admission, the Home Office has agreed a five-figure settlement. Campbell does not wish to disclose the actual amount, saying that she finds it distasteful to talk about money in relation to the death of her child, but the money will be used to pay off her overdraft, a loan on her house and other debts she has incurred since her daughter's death. She intends to carry on campaigning and says the settlement means she will not have to sell her house in order to do so.Campbell admits that she is still struggling to come to terms with the loss of her daughter and says there are days when she is deeply distressed and needs medication. Thoughts of taking her own life pass through her mind on the bad days, especially when she recalls parting company with Sarah for what was to be the last time."I was panic-stricken and terrified that she was going to die - and she did, the next day," she recalls. "I still feel overwhelmed with anger at the way she was treated, and contrast those thoughts with the joy and happiness I felt at her birth."After Sarah was sentenced to three years' imprisonment for offences including manslaughter - a man she (with another woman) accosted had heart problems and collapsed and died during the confrontation - her history of self-harm was noted. Yet a catalogue of failures resulted in Sarah being placed in a segregation unit when a prison service order states that: "Prisoners at risk of suicide or self-harm must not be routinely held in segregation units." Despite her disturbing behaviour, Sarah was not seen by the prison's mental health unit. She took 120 Dothiepin tablets and, less than 24 hours after arriving at Styal, was dead.Pauline Campbell's fight started a few weeks later when, she says, she was able to gather her thoughts. She did radio and television interviews and, seven weeks after Sarah died, spoke at the annual general meeting of the pressure group Inquest, which helps the families and friends of people who have died in custody.Asked why it was so important for her to fight to get the Home Office to accept responsibility for her daughter's death, Campbell responds: "I am a retired teacher and had time and resources to take this on. Throughout all my demonstrations and arrests, I was always acutely aware that many grieving families are not in a similar position. The struggle was undertaken at first to honour my daughter's memory, then I felt the need to raise public awareness about the continuing suffering and deaths of women in prison."Two years on, the jury at the inquest into Sarah Campbell's death, delivered a comprehensive and damning verdict. It confirmed what her mother had been saying, most significantly that "a failure in duty of care" contributed to Sarah's death.Campbell was spurred on by the inquest's verdict. Her lawyer, Mark Scott, of Bhatt Murphy solicitors, says it was particularly worrying that Sarah, with all her vulnerabilities, was placed in a prison that was so unable to safeguard her human rights and which led to her tragic death.So what impact does Campbell think the Home Office's admission of responsibility will have on the future treatment of vulnerable women prisoners?"This is a public admission of the state's culpability in my daughter's death and it must act as a wake-up call to the prison authorities," she replies. "I hope it will encourage other grieving families to pursue justice for their loved ones who have died in prison."She does not, however, feel that the admission goes far enough. Above all, it does not contain an apology for Sarah's death. "The Home Office has now accepted full responsibility for Sarah's death and it would now be appropriate for them to apologise," she points out. "They have not done so and, in my view, this represents a lack of humanity on their part."At all of the 18 demonstrations I have organised, I carried a placard with the words 'Shame on the Home Office' emblazoned. I stand by those words. Shame on them indeed."The consequences of indifferenceBehind the statistics is a story of preventable tragedy. The high level of distress and vulnerability among women prisoners is well documented, and yet we continue to detain women in a system that cannot keep them safe.The lack of state accountability, and the failure to take action to prevent other deaths, is shocking. The deaths at Styal were as a direct result of institutional complacency and neglect, and yet the Home Office has never accounted for its failure to act on the recommendations of the Prisons Inspectorate about deficiencies in the treatment and care of vulnerable women in the prison.The issues raised by the deaths at Styal are mirrored in other women's prisons, while inquests continue to expose appalling conditions of incarceration demonstrating inadequate healthcare, use of segregation and isolation for suicidal women, overuse of force, failure to implement suicide prevention guidelines, lack of staff training, and poor communication.This ongoing abuse of human rights requires a fundamental rethink of the way women are dealt with by the criminal justice system. Diversion of women from custody and investment in radical community-based alternatives can address the complex reasons behind women's offending. Until urgent action is taken by the state, the damaging and tragic consequences of imprisonment will continue.Deborah Coles· Deborah Coles is co-director of the pressure group Inquest.·  Email your comments to society@theguardian.com. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".